CITY CODE
of
WATERLOO, IOWA
2001
Code current through:
Ord. 5779, passed 11-18-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Waterloo, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including ordinance 5779, passed November 18, 2024. Ordinances of the
City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
      American Legal Publishing
      Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 4854
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES
   FOR THE CITY OF WATERLOO, IOWA, 2007.
   BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF WATERLOO, IOWA, as follows:
   WHEREAS, section 380.8 of the code of Iowa (2005) requires that at least
once in every five years a city shall adopt a code of ordinances, and
   WHEREAS, on April 9, 2001, the city council adopted the city code of
Waterloo, Iowa, and
   WHEREAS, the city of Waterloo adds new ordinances and amendments upon
passage by supplementation to the code itself, and
   WHEREAS, if a proposed code of ordinances contains only existing ordinances
which have been edited and compiled without substantive changes, the council
may adopt such code without notice of public hearing, and
   WHEREAS, it is now appropriate to adopt a code of compiled and existing
ordinances under the statute without any substantive changes proposed.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF WATERLOO,
IOWA:
   Section 1. Purpose. The purpose of this adopting ordinance is to enable the
city of Waterloo, Iowa, to comply with the provisions of section 380.8, code of
Iowa (2005).
   Section 2. Adoption. The city of Waterloo, Iowa, hereby adopts the 2007 code
of ordinances for the city of Waterloo, Iowa, pursuant to the provisions of
section 380.8, code of Iowa (2005).
   Section 3. Content. The 2007 code of ordinances of the city of Waterloo,
Iowa, is composed of all city ordinances presently in effect except traffic
code, grade ordinances, bond ordinances, zoning ordinances, and ordinances
vacating streets and alleys.
   The 2007 code of ordinances shall include this adopting ordinance and the
city clerk's certification of its adoption and passage.
   If the code of ordinances includes an ordinance which has adopted by
reference the provisions of any statewide or nationally recognized standard
code pursuant to the provisions of section 380.10, code of Iowa (2005), the
city clerk shall also keep on file, with the official copy of the city code, a
copy of such standard code.
   Section 4. Format. The 2007 code of ordinances of the city of Waterloo,
Iowa, shall be compiled in loose leaf format.
   Section 5. Official Copy. The city clerk shall be responsible for the
compilation, organization, and maintenance of the official 2007 code of
ordinances of the city of Waterloo, Iowa, and shall keep the official copy on
file in the office of the city clerk.
   Section 6. Additional Ordinances. All ordinances, except as hereinafter
provided, adopted after the effective date of the ordinance shall be in the
form of an amendment to or an addition to the 2007 code of ordinances. This
section does not apply to traffic code, grade ordinances, bond ordinances,
zoning ordinances, and ordinances vacating streets and alleys.
   Section 7. Effective Date. This ordinance shall be effective after its
passage and publication, as required by law.
   INTRODUCED:   February 5, 2007
   PASSED 1st CONSIDERATION:   February 5, 2007
   PASSED 2nd CONSIDERATION:   February 5, 2007
   PASSED 3rd CONSIDERATION:   February 5, 2007
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the city council of the city of Waterloo, Iowa, on the
5th day of February, 2007, and approved by the mayor on the 7th day of
February, 2007.
                                         
   Tim Hurley, Mayor
 
ATTEST:
 
                                           
Nancy Eckert, CMC
City Clerk
 
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
Official City Code   1
Municipal Charter And Seal   2
General Penalty   3
Mayor And City Council   4
Rules Of Procedure   4A
Confidential Information   4B
Censure Of Elected Officials   4C
Municipal Officials   5
City Clerk   5A
City Treasurer   5B
Finance Director   5C
City Attorney   5D
Municipal Departments   6
Police Department   6A
Fire Department   6B
Engineering Department   6C
Building Inspection, Permits And
Maintenance Department   6D
Planning And Transportation Department    6E
Department Of Safety Services   6F
Municipal Elections   7
Municipal Finances   8
Hotel And Motel Tax   8A
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Code Designated
1-1-2: Rules Of Construction, Definitions
1-1-3: Catchlines
1-1-4: Effect Of Repeals
1-1-5: Altering The Code
1-1-6: Amendments To Code
1-1-7: Severability
1-1-1: CODE DESIGNATED:
The ordinances embraced in the following titles, chapters and sections
constitute and are designated the CITY CODE OF THE CITY OF WATERLOO, IOWA, and
may be so cited. (1970 Code, § 1-1)
1-1-2: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION, DEFINITIONS:
In the construction of this code, the following rules shall be observed, unless
such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city
council or repugnant to the context of the provisions:
CITY: The city of Waterloo, Iowa, and extended to its several officers, agents
and employees.
CITY ATTORNEY: The chief legal officer of the city, and includes the city
solicitor.
CITY CLERK: The city clerk of the city.
COMPUTING TIME; HOLIDAYS: In computing time, the first day shall be excluded
and the last included, unless the last day falls on Sunday, in which case the
time prescribed shall be extended so as to include the whole of the following
Monday; provided that, whenever the last day for the commencement of any action
or proceedings, the filing of any pleading or motion in a pending action or
proceedings or the perfecting or filing of any appeal from the decision of any
court, board, commission or official falls on a Saturday, a Sunday or any
recognized legal holiday, the time therefor shall be extended to include the
next day which is not a Saturday, Sunday or such legal holiday.
COUNTY: The county of Black Hawk in the state of Iowa.
DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY: Whenever a provision appears requiring an officer of
the city to do some act or make certain inspections, it is to be construed to
authorize the officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to
perform the required act or make the required inspection unless the terms of
the provision or section designate otherwise.
GENDER: Words importing the masculine gender only may be extended to females.
JOINT AUTHORITY: Words giving a joint authority to three (3) or more public
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of them, unless it is otherwise expressed.
LAND, REAL ESTATE: The word "land" and phrases "real estate" and "real
property" include land, tenements, hereditaments and all rights thereto and
interest therein, equitable as well as legal.
MONTH, YEAR: The word "month" means a calendar month and the word "year" means
a calendar year.
NUMBER: Words incorporating the singular number may be extended to several
persons or things, and words importing the plural number may be applied to one
person or thing.
OATH OR AFFIRMATION: The word "oath" includes affirmations in all cases where
an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in like cases the word
"swear" includes "affirm".
OFFICIALS, BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, ETC.: Whenever reference is made to officials,
boards and commissions by title only, i.e., "council", "clerk", "the mayor"
etc., they shall be deemed to refer to the officials, boards and commissions of
the city of Waterloo.
OR, AND: "Or" may be read "and", and "and" may be read "or" if the sense
requires it.
PERSON: Includes and is applied to corporations, associations, clubs,
societies, firms, partnerships, municipalities and bodies politic and corporate
as well as to individuals.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes money, goods, chattels, evidences of debt and
things in action.
PROPERTY: Includes real and personal property.
STATE: The state of Iowa.
TENSE: Words used in the present or past tense include the future as well as
the present and past.
WORDS AND PHRASES: Words and phrases shall be construed according to the
context and the approved usage of the language; technical words and phrases,
and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law,
shall be construed according to such meaning.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: Any mode of representing words and letters in general use,
except that signatures, when required, must be made by the writing or mark of
the person. (1970 Code, § 1-2; amd. 2001 Code)
1-1-3: CATCHLINES:
Unless set out in the body of the section itself, the catchlines of the several
sections and/or subsections of this code do not constitute any part of the law,
and are intended merely to indicate, explain, supplement or clarify the
contents of a section and/or subsection. (1970 Code, § 1-3)
1-1-4: EFFECT OF REPEALS:
The repeal of an ordinance does not revive an ordinance previously repealed,
nor affect any rights which have accrued, any duty imposed or any proceedings
commenced under or by virtue of the ordinance repealed. (1970 Code, § 1-5)
1-1-5: ALTERING THE CODE:
It is unlawful for any person to change or amend, by additions or deletions,
any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete pages, or portions
thereof, or to alter or tamper with such code in any manner whatsoever which
will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby. (1970 Code, § 1-6)
1-1-6: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or in any way
affect this code, may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances repeal
any chapter, section or subsection or any portion thereof, such repealed
portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. The
subsequent ordinances, as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such
time as this code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted
as a new code.
Amendments to any of the provisions of this code may be made by amending such
provisions by specific reference to the section number of this code in
substantially the following language: "That section            of the city code
of Waterloo, Iowa, is hereby amended to read as follows: ...". The new
provision shall then be set out in full as desired.
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in this code is to be added,
the following language may be used: "That the city code, city of Waterloo,
Iowa, is hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered           , which
said section reads as follows: ...". The new section shall then be set out in
full as desired. (Ord. 3522, 1-25-1988; amd. Ord. 3855, 4-13-1992)
1-1-7: SEVERABILITY:
The sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code are
severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this
code shall be declared invalid, unenforceable or unconstitutional by the valid
judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity,
unenforceability or unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining
phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this code. (1970 Code,
§ 1-4)
CHAPTER 2
MUNICIPAL CHARTER AND SEAL
SECTION:
1-2-1: Municipal Charter
1-2-2: City Seal And Logo
1-2-1: MUNICIPAL CHARTER:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide for a charter
embodying the form of government existing on July 24, 1972.
   B.   Citing Charter: This section may be cited as the CHARTER OF THE CITY OF
WATERLOO, IOWA.
   C.   Form Of Government: The form of government of the city is the mayor-
council form of government.
   D.   Powers And Duties: The city council and mayor and other city officers
have such powers and shall perform such duties as are authorized or required by
state law and by the ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the
city.
   E.   Number And Term Of Council: The city council shall consist of two (2)
councilpersons elected at large and one councilperson from each of the five (5)
wards as established by ordinance, elected to hold office as follows:
      1.   In the election to be held in 1993, the councilpersons from wards
one, three and five shall be elected for a term of four (4) years. The
councilpersons from wards two and four shall be elected for a term of two (2)
years. The at-large councilperson who receives the highest number of votes is
elected for a four (4) year term; the other is elected to a two (2) year term.
      2.   Thereafter, each councilperson shall be elected for a term of four
(4) years.
   F.   Term Of Mayor: The mayor is elected for a term of two (2) years.
   G.   Copies On File: The city clerk shall keep an official copy of this
charter on file with the official records of the city clerk, shall immediately
file a copy with the secretary of the state of Iowa, and shall keep copies of
the charter available at the city clerk's office for public inspection. (Ord.
2603, 8-14-1972; amd. Ord. 3856, 4-13-1992)
1-2-2: CITY SEAL AND LOGO:
   A.   City Seal: A seal having in the center an image consisting of the Cedar
River on the bottom of the image, the covered 4th Street Bridge spanning the
Cedar River in the center, vegetation appearing directly above the bridge, and
a depiction of buildings representing the city skyline behind the vegetation.
Arching along the top of the image are the words “CITY OF WATERLOO” and arching
along the bottom of the image are the words “OFFICIAL SEAL”. The words on top
and bottom of the image are separated by one small circle on the right and left
side of the image that lies parallel on either side with the image of the 4th
Street Bridge. The city clerk shall procure such a seal, have the custody of
the seal, and cause it to be affixed to all documents, resolutions, ordinances,
transcripts, orders or certificates, which it may be necessary or proper to
authenticate as an official city document. Any use of the city seal in a manner
inconsistent with this section, or by a person not authorized by this section,
shall be a violation of this code. The image of the seal appear in the colors
shown below as follows:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4f1c226a31a8651fdfc6ebe36d258a9ea94e4344/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2648.png]
 
   B.    City Logo: The city logo consists of the words “CITY OF WATERLOO” with
a large, stylized “W”. The city logo may also appear with the tagline
“Community of Opportunity” or the name of a city department below Waterloo. The
image of the city logo appear in the colors shown below as follows:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4f1c226a31a8651fdfc6ebe36d258a9ea94e4344/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2650.png]
 
   C.   All uses of the image of the city seal and city logo are restricted to
official city business and such other appropriate uses that further the
operations of the city as may be authorized in writing by the mayor, the
mayor's designee(s) or city clerk, or as otherwise specifically permitted by
this Code. This Section shall not prohibit the public from displaying the image
of the city seal and city logo for the purpose of promoting community pride.
   D.   City officers, city employees, members of the city council, and members
of city boards and commissions may use stationary, printed materials, pins,
clothing, flags, and other articles with the image of the city seal or city
logo while acting within the scope of their office or employment.
   E.   No person, including any elected officer of the city, may use the image
of the city seal or city logo in any correspondence or other printed materials
distributed in favor of or against any ballot measure or in favor of or against
any candidate for public office.
   F.   The image of the city seal or city logo may be at times requested for
use by outside entities or agencies for events co-hosted or supported by the
city. All such requests must be submitted to the mayor or the mayor's designee
(s) who has the discretion to approve or deny such requests, and to promulgate
the manner, timing, and format of such requests.
   G.   City departments, such as the police department, fire department,
library, leisure services, and airport, may adopt department logos. Such logos
shall be approved by the mayor prior to use.
   H.   The city may adopt trademarks and service marks to protect the use of
its name, marks, and ensure that the city shares in the benefits derived from
commercial and non-commercial use of its marks in order to comply with and
assure protection under federal trademark law.
   I.   It shall be unlawful for any person to make or use the city seal or
city logo fraudulently, or without express written permission of the City of
Waterloo. Unauthorized use of the city seal or city logo shall be a violation
of this Code. (Rev. Ord. 1188, Comp. 1941, p. S-9; amd. Ord. 5534, 12-30-2019;
Ord. 5678, 1-3-2023)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-3-1: General Penalty
1-3-2: Municipal Infractions
1-3-3: Failure To Pay
1-3-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
The doing of any act prohibited or declared to be unlawful or a misdemeanor by
this code, or the omission or failure to perform any act or duty required by
this code is, unless another penalty is specified, punishable by a fine not to
exceed the maximum fine and term for imprisonment for a simple misdemeanor
under § 903.1(1)(a) of Iowa Code. (Ord. 4441, 10-16-2000; amd. Ord. 5534, 12-
30-2019)
1-3-2: MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, or with reference hereto, the
following words and terms shall have the meaning ascribed thereto:
   MUNICIPAL INFRACTION: The doing of any act prohibited or declared to be
unlawful, an offense or a misdemeanor, by this code or any ordinance or code
hereby adopted by reference, or omission or failure to perform any act or duty
requested by this code or any ordinance or code herein adopted by reference. A
violation shall not be a municipal infraction if it is a felony, an aggravated
misdemeanor or a serious misdemeanor under state law or if the violation is a
simple misdemeanor under Iowa Code chapters 687 through 747. A municipal
infraction is punishable by civil penalty as provided herein.
   OFFICER: Any employee or official authorized to enforce this code of the
city of Waterloo.
   REPEAT OFFENSE: A recurring violation of the same section of this code.
   B.   Adoption Of Iowa Code On Municipal Infractions: Iowa Code section
364.22, municipal infractions, is hereby adopted by reference, in its entirety.
All amendments to Iowa Code section 364.22 shall automatically modify this
section. (Ord. 4920, 7-14-2008)
   C.   Penalties: The civil penalties for municipal infractions will be in
line with maximums allowed by state law. (Ord. 5133, 10-1-2012)
   D.   Notice Of Violation: Any act constituting a municipal infraction under
this code may be initially charged upon simple notice of violation. The city
may serve a notice of violation upon a party charged with an act constituting a
municipal infraction either by delivering said notice personally or by
certified mail to the party's last known address. A person who admits the
reported violation may remit payment of the penalty to the city and perform any
other act required to be performed, and in such event the person charged shall
not be further prosecuted by issuance of a municipal infraction citation and
will not be assessed any costs or other expenses for such violation. The city
shall retain all penalties thus collected. If the person charged denies the
reported violation or fails to timely perform any act required to be performed
by the notice of violation, a civil municipal infraction citation shall be
served in the manner prescribed by the applicable provision(s) of this code.
Nothing in this section imposes a duty on the city or any officer to initially
charge any act or all acts constituting a municipal infraction upon simple
notice of violation, and the officer charged with enforcement may initially
issue a civil municipal infraction citation seeking a civil penalty with or
without additional relief. (Ord. 4920, 7-14-2008)
   E.   Administrative Fees: If an officer of the code enforcement division is
required in the same calendar year to issue a second notice of violation,
municipal infraction citation, and/or a notice of abatement for IPMC violations
to a property owner for an offense at the same property, an administrative fee
of one hundred dollars ($100.00) will be charged to the property owner in
addition to any other fines, fees, penalties or costs imposed, and for
additional notices or citations in the same calendar year the administrative
fee shall be three hundred dollars ($300.00). The city clerk shall mail a
statement of the administrative fee to the last known address of the owner and/
or person in possession of the property as shown by the records of the county.
Notice shall be by ordinary mail. Said statement shall be due and payable upon
mailing and shall become delinquent if not paid within ten (10) days of the
mailing date of the notice as evidenced by the date of said mailing. Any
delinquent fees may be assessed against the property for collection in the same
manner as a property tax, as provided in state law. A party who wishes to
contest the administrative fee may file an appeal in the manner prescribed by
subsection
7-5B-6B of this code. This provision is not limited to repeat offenses, but is
intended to apply to any subsequent notice, citation, or abatement order as set
forth above, that is issued by a code enforcement officer in the same calendar
year in respect of the same property. (Ord. 5212, 4-28-2014)
1-3-3: FAILURE TO PAY:
   A.   Unpaid fees, charges, costs of service, fines, and penalties shall be
handled by one or a combination of the following collection methods:
      1.   The Finance Department or City Attorney may retain attorneys and/or
private collection agents for the purpose of collecting any default in payment
or delinquency of any fees, charges, costs of service, fines, or penalties. A
twenty-five percent (25%) late fee may be added to any outstanding balance at
the time of referral for collection.
      2.   The City may use any legal means necessary to secure payment,
including the submission of the debt to the State of Iowa Income Tax Offset
Program pursuant to Iowa Code section 8A.504. Any fee for collection shall be
added to the outstanding balance at the time of submission to the State of Iowa
Income Tax Offset Program. Upon judgment, fines and fees will be collected as
court debt by the Iowa Judicial Branch.
   B.   All bills and invoices shall contain the following notice in order to
be subject to the late fee:
      "Failure to pay this invoice by the required due date will result in a
twenty-five percent (25%) late fee being added to any outstanding balance and
the account will be forwarded to a collection agency for further efforts."
      Additional notice shall also be given to comply with the Income Tax
Offset Program, if applicable.
(Ord. 5677, 12-19-2022)
CHAPTER 4
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-4-1: Role Of Mayor
1-4-2: Role Of City Council Members
1-4-3: Compensation Of Mayor And City Council Members
1-4-4: Council Member Communications With City Employees
1-4-5: Council Members And The Employee Disciplinary Process
1-4-6: Quorum
1-4-7: Meetings
1-4-8: Standing Committees Of Council
1-4-9: Special Committees
1-4-10: All Meetings And Records Open To The Public
1-4-11: Method Of Keeping Minutes
1-4-12: Gift Law
1-4-1: ROLE OF MAYOR:
The mayor is the chief executive officer of the city, head of the executive
branch of the city, ceremonial head of the city and, when present at a council
meeting, is presiding officer of the council. As head of the executive branch
of the city, the mayor oversees the daily administration of the city by
supervising and directing all city employees and departments. The mayor shall
recommend the appointment of department heads with the consent of council. The
mayor shall not vote on any measure. The mayor may appoint city council members
to serve as non-voting liaisons to city boards and commissions established
under title 2 of this code. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4-2: ROLE OF CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS:
City council is the legislative body of the city and exercises its powers and
duties as a quorum of council members during open meetings. City council is
responsible for enacting laws and setting policy by which the city takes
action. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4-3: COMPENSATION OF MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS:
   A.   The mayor of the city shall receive an annual salary of ninety-four
thousand dollars ($94,000.00) for the calendar year beginning January 1, 2020
and an annual salary adjustment each subsequent July 1 thereafter, starting
July 1, 2020, equal to the percentage change in the Consumer Price Index for
Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Works (CPI-W), current series, U.S. All items,
as determined by comparing the December index for the year just ended with the
December index for the calendar year preceding it.
   B.   Each member of the council shall receive an annual salary of nine
thousand two hundred seventy-two dollars and twenty-two cents ($9,272.22) for
the calendar year beginning January 1, 2020 and an annual salary adjustment
each subsequent July 1 thereafter, starting July 1, 2020, equal to the
percentage change in the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and
Clerical Workers (CPI-W), current series, U.S. All items, as determined by
comparing the December index for the year just ended with the December index
for the calendar year preceding it.
   C.   In the event that there is no percentage change increase as described
in subsections A and B of this section in any given year, then the salary of
the mayor and the salary of each member of the council shall not be increased
in any such year. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4-4: COUNCIL MEMBER COMMUNICATIONS WITH CITY EMPLOYEES:
   A.   Council members shall refrain from becoming directly involved in the
administrative activities and daily responsibilities of employees. Council
members may make inquiries of department heads or their designee, for the
limited, legitimate purpose of informing themselves regarding agenda items or
important affairs of an immediate and urgent nature. The mayor may choose to
establish formal procedure for council-department head interaction and
department head support of council committees. Council members may discuss with
the mayor anything pertaining to city affairs.
   B.   Council members shall avoid situations that can result in city
employees being directed, intentionally or unintentionally, by one or more
members of the council. While council member interaction with the city's
employees is unavoidable, giving direction regarding other city employees,
duties, working conditions, supervisors, etc., is discouraged. If an employee
voices a concern or complaint with them, council members may listen to such
concerns and complaints, and shall then refer any such complaints back to the
mayor, or if the mayor is involved in the matter, to the human resources
director, for follow up and action if needed. Council members may remind the
city's employees that they have a number of resources at their disposal to
address employment issues if needed, including the employee handbook, or
following the grievance procedures set forth in their collective bargaining
agreement in the case of a union employee. This section shall not be construed
as prohibiting or discouraging employees from reporting criminal acts or
serious acts of personal misconduct that violate the employee handbook.
   C.   In situations in which an employee approaches a council member and the
communication does not involve a complaint or concern with regard to other city
employees, duties, working conditions, supervisors, or other terms of
employment, council members may freely speak with the employee.
   D.   Nothing herein shall diminish a council members' constitutional right
to free association or speech with any city employee during any city employee's
time when not in work status. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4-5: COUNCIL MEMBERS AND THE EMPLOYEE DISCIPLINARY PROCESS:
   A.   Council members shall not become involved in disciplinary matters and
the disciplinary or investigative process except where adopted city policy or
state law may allow such participation.
   B.   Council members shall operate within the city's established chain of
command. The established chain of command requires the mayor, department heads,
managers, and supervisors to oversee and direct their workforce on behalf of
the city. The human resources director and mayor are required to ensure city
policies are consistently applied across all departments. This is to avoid
inconsistent or political influences in the investigative or disciplinary
process, which may lead to arbitration, civil service proceedings, or
litigation. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4-6: QUORUM:
A majority of the whole number of members of the council to which the city is
entitled shall be necessary to constitute a quorum. The number of members
needed for a quorum of the city council is four (4). Less than a quorum may
adjourn and compel the attendance of members. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4-7: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: Regular meetings of the city council shall be held on
the first and third Mondays of each month at council chambers in city hall at
five thirty o'clock (5:30) P.M., or at such other designated place other than
council chambers pursuant to subsection F of this section. When a meeting date
falls on a day designated by the city as a holiday, the regular meeting shall
be held on the following evening at five thirty o'clock (5:30) P.M. in the
council chambers at city hall, or at such other designated place other than the
council chambers. The city council may adjourn a regular meeting to any date it
may deem proper.
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings of the city council may be called by
the mayor or by any four (4) council members, by serving a written notice of
the special meeting to the city clerk not less than seventy two (72) hours
prior to the meeting. Only such business may be transacted at a special meeting
as is mentioned or referred to in the notice of the meeting. Special meetings
shall be held in city hall, or at such other designated place other than city
hall pursuant to subsection F of this section. The city clerk shall deliver
notice of the meeting to council members via email and to their city-issued
mailbox no later than twenty four (24) hours prior to the meeting. Every
attempt shall be made to confirm council members are in receipt of the notice
of special meeting and are aware that said meeting is to take place.
   C.   Work Session: Work session meetings of the city council may be held on
the first and third Mondays of each month at council chambers in city hall, or
at such other designated place other than council chambers pursuant to
subsection F of this section. When a meeting date falls on a day designated by
the city as a holiday, the work session shall be held on the following evening
in the council chambers at city hall, or at such other designated place other
than the council chambers. City council may hold work sessions to review
matters which are expected to come before city council for formal action at a
regular meeting or otherwise need study and advance consideration. Items to be
considered shall be listed on the agenda and shall state the approximate start
time for each item following the first. Any topic discussed during a work
session shall not be on the regular agenda on the same date, unless an
emergency arises. City council recommendations for future action, when
necessary, shall be made in the form of a motion and approved by a majority
vote. Motions made during work sessions shall be limited to recommendations for
further study, placing a topic on a regular or special session agenda for a
vote, to cease further action, or to delay discussing a topic until a certain
date. Motions made during work sessions shall not bind council members to vote
in favor or against an item on a regular or special session agenda.
   D.   Planning Session: Planning session meetings of the city council shall
be held only on the fifth Monday of a month at council chambers in city hall at
five thirty o'clock (5:30) P.M., or at such other designated place other than
the council chambers pursuant to subsection F of this section. When a meeting
date falls on a day designated by the city as a holiday, the planning session
meeting shall be held on the following evening at five thirty o'clock (5:30)
P.M. in council chambers at city hall, or at such other designated place other
than the council chambers. The purpose of the meeting shall be for council to
discuss future projects, policies, strategic planning, or any other matter
consistent with the purview of the city council. The city council shall not
conduct any other business at the meeting except to authorize the payment of
bills or to approve emergency agenda items.
   E.   Closed Session: Iowa Code section 21.5 outlines specific instances
where cities are allowed to discuss city business in closed session prior to
voting on the matter in open session. Before entering into closed session, the
city attorney will make a statement to the city council and public noting the
reason for adjourning to closed session and that the reason complies with a
specific section of Iowa Code. City council must then make an affirmative,
public vote equal to the lesser of two-thirds of the members of the body or all
of the members present at the meeting to enter into closed session. Once in
closed session, discussion must remain germane to the topic for discussion
listed on the agenda. Final action on any item must take place in open session.
      1.   Matters discussed in closed session are sensitive in nature, where
public disclosure of such information may be detrimental to the city. Elected
officials and city staff shall follow article 1-4B of this chapter, with
respect to matters discussed and information presented in closed session
meetings.
   F.   Change Of Location: Regular, special, work session, or planning session
meetings of the city council may be held at such other designated place other
than city hall as the city council may deem advisable and necessary; provided,
however, such designation of a meeting place other than the council chambers in
city hall shall be by city council resolution. Notice of such change of meeting
place shall be given to the public by publication as provided by Iowa Code
section 362.3.
   G.   Electronic Meetings: A meeting of the city council may be conducted
electronically only when a meeting in person is impossible or impractical and
only if:
      1.   The council members participating in the meeting at each location by
telephone or video can hear and be heard by all council members, provided that
if any participant is hearing impaired other suitable means of communication
are provided. If the meeting is conducted by email or video, the council
members participating in the meeting shall, to the extent possible, have access
to a reliable internet connection.
      2.   The city council provides public access to the conversation of the
meeting to the extent reasonably possible.
      3.   The city council complies with Iowa Code section 21.4. For the
purpose of this paragraph, the place of the meeting is the place from which the
communication originates or where public access is provided to the
conversation.
      4.   Minutes are kept of the meeting. The minutes shall include a
statement explaining why a meeting in person was impossible or impractical.
   H.   Informal Meetings: Council members may hold meetings other than those
outlined in this chapter. At such informal meetings, no legislative business
may be transacted, and city business cannot be discussed if four (4) council
members are present, unless there has been compliance with open meeting laws.
At informal meetings where a quorum is not present, council members may receive
informational briefings from staff, make site visits, receive public comments,
or engage in informal discussion. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4-8: STANDING COMMITTEES OF COUNCIL:
The mayor may create and appoint no fewer than three (3) council members to
standing committees of the council. Committee members shall be appointed at the
first meeting in January or at the time a vacancy occurs. A chair shall be
selected from the members of the committee. Nothing shall preclude the city
council from acting as deemed necessary without the input of a committee in the
case of an emergency to conduct the business of the city. Each of the following
committees shall specifically be assigned the following responsibilities and
other duties as deemed appropriate:
   A.   Finance Committee: This committee shall review travel requests, budget
line item amendments, expenditure pre-authorizations, and refund requests for
sanitation services in accordance with city finance policies and procedures.
The committee shall meet prior to each regular session and planning session.
(Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4-9: SPECIAL COMMITTEES:
   A.   The mayor or a quorum of the city council may appoint members to
temporary advisory or ad hoc committees consisting of council members, staff,
and/or private citizens, as deemed desirable and necessary to assist and advise
the mayor or city council. Members of city council-appointed committees shall
abide by Iowa Open Meeting Laws.
   B.   The special committee shall prepare and deliver a final report of its
findings to the mayor if created by the mayor or city council if created by the
city council. The special committee shall be considered discharged upon
delivery of the final report. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4-10: ALL MEETINGS AND RECORDS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC:
   A.   The city shall comply with Iowa Code chapters 21 and 22 regarding open
meeting and open record laws.
   B.   All meeting agendas shall be legally posted on the city website and on
the lobby wall, directly outside the city clerk's office located on the first
floor of Waterloo City Hall, 715 Mulberry Street, and shall be timely furnished
to those media enterprises that have filed a written request for notice with
the city. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4-11: METHOD OF KEEPING MINUTES:
   A.   The city clerk shall record the minutes of all city council meetings in
accordance with Iowa Code Section 21.3(2). A record shall be made of the name
of the member of the public recognized by the chair to speak. Open session
minutes shall be available for viewing during normal city hall business hours
as soon as the minutes of the meeting are complete. Minutes shall be made
available no later than the close of business on the Friday prior to the next
regular council meeting.
   B.   Council members shall notify the city clerk prior to the start of the
meeting if a correction to the previous meeting's minutes is suggested to allow
the city clerk time to verify that such a correction is required. (Ord. 5662,
9-19-2022; amd. Ord. 5750, 2-5-2024)
1-4-12: GIFT LAW:
A public official, public employee, candidate, or that persons immediate family
member, shall abide by Iowa Code section 68B.22. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
ARTICLE A. RULES OF PROCEDURE
SECTION:
1-4A-1: Authority
1-4A-2: Interpretation
1-4A-3: Amendments To Rules Of Procedure
1-4A-4: Parliamentary Rules To Govern
1-4A-5: Order Of Seating
1-4A-6: Official Action
1-4A-7: Presiding Officer
1-4A-8: Presiding Officer Debate And Voting
1-4A-9: Council Meeting Decorum
1-4A-10: Speaking During Public Meetings - Council Member
1-4A-11: Council Member Presentations
1-4A-12: Council Member Absence
1-4A-13: Council Participation Via Telephone Or Video
1-4A-14: Placing Items On The Agenda
1-4A-15: Affirmative Motions
1-4A-16: Order Of Business For Regular Meetings
1-4A-17: Mayor's Role In Approving Legislation
1-4A-18: Ordinance
1-4A-19: Resolution
1-4A-20: Motion
1-4A-21: Motion To Call The Previous Question
1-4A-22: Motion To Adjourn
1-4A-23: Motion To Amend
1-4A-24: Motion To Postpone
1-4A-25: Motion To Reconsider
1-4A-26: Motion To Rescind
1-4A-27: Point Of Order
1-4A-28: Tie Vote
1-4A-29: Abstentions
1-4A-30: Conflict Of Interest
1-4A-31: Conflict Of Interest Protest
1-4A-32: General Rules For Public Participation
1-4A-33: Public Comment Section Of The Agenda
1-4A-34: Public Comment During Public Hearings
1-4A-35: Public Comment During Work Session And Planning Session, Meetings
1-4A-36: Public Comment During Regular Session And Special Session Agenda Items
1-4A-37: Violating Rules Of Public Participation And Sergeant At Arms
1-4A-1: AUTHORITY:
The city council shall adopt and enforce its own reasonable rules concerning
the conduct of city council meetings pursuant to Iowa Code sections 21.7 and
372.13(5). (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4A-2: INTERPRETATION:
The city attorney or city clerk shall be considered the final authority on any
questions regarding the application or interpretation of this article. (Ord.
5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4A-3: AMENDMENTS TO RULES OF PROCEDURE:
The rules listed in this article shall be in effect upon their adoption by
ordinance and until such time as they are amended. These rules listed in this
article shall be amended by a two-thirds vote of all of the members of the city
council and only if the proposed amendments have been introduced into the
record at a prior meeting. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4A-4: PARLIAMENTARY RULES TO GOVERN:
In all cases not provided for herein, the city council shall use the most
recent edition of Robert's Rules of Order to decide questions of parliamentary
procedure, where it may be applicable and appropriate. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4A-5: ORDER OF SEATING:
Council members shall occupy the respective seats in the council chambers
assigned to them by the mayor. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4A-6: OFFICIAL ACTION:
City council shall exercise power only in a duly convened meeting by passing a
motion, resolution, amendment, or an ordinance. No motion, resolution,
amendment, or ordinance shall be debated unless it receives a second. (Ord.
5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4A-7: PRESIDING OFFICER:
   A.   The mayor shall be the presiding officer of the city council. In the
mayor's absence, the mayor pro tem shall be the presiding officer. The mayor
pro tem shall immediately relinquish the chair upon arrival of the mayor. In
the absence of the mayor and the mayor pro tem, the city clerk shall call the
meeting to order, and a temporary presiding officer shall then be selected by
majority vote of the council members present. Upon arrival of the mayor or
mayor pro tem, the temporary presiding officer shall immediately relinquish the
chair.
   B.   The responsibilities of the presiding officer during council meetings
include but are not limited to the following:
      1.   Call the meeting to order.
      2.   Announce the order of business as provided in the agenda.
      3.   State motions on the table and who opens debate.
      4.   Put motions to a vote, when appropriate.
      5.   Announce the council's decision on all subjects.
      6.   Prevent irrelevant or frivolous debate or discussion.
      7.   Maintain order and decorum.
      8.   Decide all questions of order.
      9.   Enforce city rules or policies pertaining to city council meeting
procedures.
      10.   Recognize the right of council members to appeal parliamentary
procedure.
   C.   Appeal Of Parliamentary Decision: A council member may appeal a
parliamentary decision made by the presiding officer. A motion to appeal the
decision of the presiding officer requires a second and is debatable. The city
council shall decide the question by a majority vote. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4A-8: PRESIDING OFFICER DEBATE AND VOTING:
   A.   The mayor as presiding officer may debate, but may not make a motion or
vote. The mayor pro tem, as presiding officer or a temporary presiding officer,
may debate, vote as a regular council member, and retain all the powers of a
council member. The presiding officer is subject to the limitations of debate
that are imposed on all council members.
   B.   The mayor pro tem or a temporary presiding officer shall be counted as
a council member when determining whether a quorum exists.
   C.   The mayor pro tem or temporary presiding officer shall affix his or her
signature on documents that require the mayor's signature. With regard to
measures passed by the council, the mayor pro tem may sign the measure or may
take no action as provided by Iowa Code section 380.6(3), in which case the
measure becomes effective pursuant to said section. However, the mayor pro tem
or temporary presiding officer shall not have the power to veto a measure. In
the event the mayor pro tem or temporary presiding officer takes no action on a
measure and the mayor resumes his or her office within fourteen (14) days of
the measure's passage by the council, the mayor may sign or veto the measure
within the fourteen (14) day period. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4A-9: COUNCIL MEETING DECORUM:
   A.   The presiding officer shall preserve order and decorum, prevent attacks
on personalities and the impugning of council members' motives, confine council
members in deliberation and debate to the question under discussion, and decide
all questions of order. Council members shall not attack the personalities or
motives of other members and shall limit deliberation and debate to the
question on the table. Council members shall be required to compel the
presiding officer to enforce rules of decorum, debate, speaking, and conduct
listed in this Article by raising a point of order.
B.   Every member of the public and every council member desiring to speak
shall address the presiding officer, only upon recognition by the presiding
officer, and shall confine comments to the question under debate, avoiding
inappropriate language and personal attacks. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4A-10: SPEAKING DURING PUBLIC MEETINGS - COUNCIL MEMBER:
   A.   When two (2) or more council members address the presiding officer at
once, the presiding officer shall name the member who is to speak. Council
members shall refrain from discourse while another member or the presiding
officer is speaking. Cell phone and email use shall be limited during any city
council meeting.
   B.   Council members shall only speak once until each member choosing to
speak shall have spoken.
   C.   Council members shall only have the floor for a maximum of three (3)
minutes each time they have the floor. Council members may request time in
addition to the allotted three (3) minutes. Such requests for additional time
shall be made to the presiding officer and granted at the presiding officer's
discretion.
   D.   The presiding officer may make a call to order if a council member
violates rules of decorum, and upon such a call, the council member shall
immediately cease speaking. The council member may appeal to the presiding
officer for an opportunity to explain the remarks. If no appeal is made, the
decision of the presiding officer shall be conclusive, but if the member shall
appeal from the decision of the presiding officer, the city council shall
decide the question without debate by majority vote. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4A-11: COUNCIL MEMBER PRESENTATIONS:
   A.   Work Session: Pursuant to subsection
1-4A-14A2, a council member proposing an agenda item shall work with the city
clerk to schedule a work session. City staff and other council members may not
make presentations during the time allotted for the proposing council member's
work session unless requested by the proposing council member. The proposing
council member may schedule subsequent work sessions on the same topic, except
when a vote of the council prohibits further pursuit of the topic. When
scheduling the work session presentation, the proposing council member shall
tell the city clerk the following:
      1.   The estimated amount of time needed to make the presentation and
answer questions.
      2.   If the presentation will include a power point or handouts, the
power point or handout shall be included in the agenda packet.
      3.   If speakers other than the council member will deliver remarks to
the city council as part of the presentation.
      Council members making presentations during work sessions may utilize
computer presentations, written materials, or other visual aids to present the
topic. These materials shall not be utilized during the regular session meeting
but may be included in the regular session agenda packet.
   B.   City Council Meeting: When a work session topic sponsored by a council
member is approved by the city council to move to the regular session agenda
for a vote, the council member shall receive the first opportunity to speak by
the presiding officer. The council member shall follow section
1-4A-10 when speaking, and may not relinquish their time to speak to any other
council member, member of the public, or party interested in the topic. (Ord.
5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4A-12: COUNCIL MEMBER ABSENCE:
Council members who are unable to attend a scheduled meeting shall notify the
mayor or city clerk prior to the meeting. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4A-13: COUNCIL PARTICIPATION VIA TELEPHONE OR VIDEO:
A council member who is physically unable to attend a meeting may participate
via telephone or video. They shall provide a reliable telephone number or
internet connection, a quiet environment, join the meeting by five thirty
o'clock (5:30) P.M., and attempt to remain on the phone or connected to the
video conference for the entire meeting. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4A-14: PLACING ITEMS ON THE AGENDA:
   A.   All agenda items and supporting materials are due to the city clerk's
office at a date and time designated by the city clerk on the Wednesday two (2)
weeks prior to the regular session, work session, finance committee, and
planning session. The city clerk may adjust the agenda item deadline when
holidays shorten a workweek. The process for adding items to the agenda varies
for staff, council, and the mayor. Ordinance or amendment changes shall follow
subsection
1-4A-17D. Agenda items shall be added as follows:
      1.   Mayor And Staff: Mayor and staff members shall submit agenda items
using the agenda management software.
      2.   Council Members: Council members shall submit regular session and
work session agenda items to the mayor and city clerk and shall do so by the
deadline designated by the city clerk. Items submitted by council members shall
be reviewed by the city attorney, city clerk, or appropriate staff and be
placed on a work session agenda for discussion and review prior to being placed
on the regular agenda for a vote. Council members shall submit planning session
agenda items to the mayor and city clerk for review and addition to the
planning session agenda.
   B.   A tentative agenda and packet shall be available to the council one
week prior to the regular session, work session, planning session, and finance
committee meeting.
   C.   The finalized agenda and packet shall be available to the public at the
close of business of the Wednesday preceding the council meeting. The mayor has
final approval of all items listed on the agenda submitted by staff members.
Once finalized, the mayor may withdraw any item prior to the council meeting
and shall do so in writing in the form of an amendment notice provided to city
council at the start of the meeting. The amendment notice shall include a
reason for withdrawing the item. City council may choose to keep the item on
the agenda by a majority vote. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4A-15: AFFIRMATIVE MOTIONS:
   A.   All motions, resolutions, ordinances shall be listed on the agenda in
the form of an affirmative motion to enact, adopt, approve or other appropriate
language. The council members who move and second the motion are not required
to vote in favor of the item during the roll call or voice vote.
   B.   A motion to rescind an ordinance or resolution shall not be placed on
the agenda in the affirmative. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4A-16: ORDER OF BUSINESS FOR REGULAR MEETINGS:
   A.   Business for a regular meeting may be ordered as follows:
      1.   Roll call.
      2.   Invocation or moment of silence.
      3.   Pledge of allegiance.
      4.   Approval of agenda, as proposed or amended.
      5.   Approval of minutes of the previous meeting.
      6.   Presentations or recognitions.
      7.   Public comment.
      8.   Consent Agenda: The consent agenda is reserved for routine
resolutions and motions, acted upon by roll call vote on a single motion
without discussion. Council shall either vote yea or nay when the roll is
called. Council members may request that an item be removed from the consent
agenda and considered separately. Such request does not require a second. The
public shall be prohibited from requesting that items listed on the consent
agenda be removed and considered separately. The public may contact council
members with questions regarding consent agenda items. Items that may appear on
the consent agenda include but are not limited to the following:
         a.   Resolution of bills.
         b.   Setting date of public hearing.
         c.   Assessment cancellation.
         d.   Water kills.
         e.   CLURA/CURA applications.
         f.   Waiver for a concrete driveway application.
         g.   Bid awards.
         h.   Noise variance.
         i.   Travel request approval.
         j.   License/permit approval.
         k.   Board/commission/employee appointments.
         l.   Bonds.
         m.   Request to seek proposals.
         n.   Approval of change orders.
      9.   Remainder of the agenda may include but is not limited to the
following:
         a.   Public hearings.
         b.   Resolutions.
         c.   Ordinances.
         d.   Other council business (reserved for approval of non-routine
motions and revocation hearings).
         e.   Executive session.
         f.   Adjournment.
   B.   The mayor or city council shall have the authority to vary from this
schedule to expedite the conduct of business or accommodate persons having
business to be considered by city council. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4A-17: MAYOR'S ROLE IN APPROVING LEGISLATION:
   A.   The mayor may veto an ordinance, amendment, or resolution within
fourteen (14) days after passage. The mayor shall explain the reasons for the
veto in a written message to the city council at the time of the veto. Within
thirty (30) days after the mayor's veto, the city council may pass the measure
again by a vote of not less than two-thirds of all of the members of the
council. If the mayor vetoes an ordinance, amendment, or resolution, and the
council re-passes the measure after the mayor's veto, a resolution becomes
effective immediately upon re-passage, and an ordinance or amendment becomes
effective when the ordinance or a summary thereof is published, unless a
subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
   B.   If the mayor takes no action on an ordinance, amendment, or resolution,
a resolution becomes effective fourteen (14) days after the date of passage. An
ordinance or amendment becomes effective when the ordinance or a summary of the
ordinance is published, but not sooner than fourteen (14) days after the date
of passage, unless a subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance
or amendment. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4A-18: ORDINANCE:
   A.   An ordinance is a legislative act prescribing a general, uniform, and
permanent rule of conduct relating to the corporate affairs of the
municipality. City council action shall be taken by ordinance when required by
law or to prescribe permanent rules of conduct that continue in force until
repealed or amended. The city council may amend any ordinance it deems
appropriate by following subsection D of this section.
   B.   All ordinances require three (3) readings to adopt. The second reading
shall be at least five (5) days after the first reading unless waived. Upon a
vote of not less than three-fourths of all of the members of the city council,
the rule requiring the second or third readings of an ordinance may be
suspended so that council may proceed with final adoption of the ordinance
following its first reading. Council members shall consider matters of public
safety, economic development, and time sensitive issues when deciding to
suspend the rules.
   C.   An ordinance signed by the mayor becomes effective when the ordinance
or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a subsequent effective date
is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
   D.   The following procedure shall be followed for adopting an ordinance:
      1.   An ordinance proposed by a city employee or elected official shall
be reviewed by the city attorney or city clerk, and then be placed on a work
session agenda for review by council. A draft of the ordinance shall be
included in the agenda packet. Unless further discussion is required, the
ordinance shall be placed on the next regular session meeting agenda.
      2.   The title of each ordinance shall in all cases be read prior to its
passage. A council member may make a motion to amend language in the ordinance
prior to the adoption of the first reading. The city attorney or city clerk
shall make a determination of whether the material language of the amendment is
appropriate prior to council members taking a vote. Following approval of the
first reading, council members shall not make motions to amend the proposed
ordinance to make material changes to the language. Non-substantive edits such
as corrections for spelling or punctuation errors shall be allowed.
      3.   If an ordinance fails at any stage of its adoption, the ordinance
shall be considered defeated.
      4.   Traffic and zoning ordinance changes are not required to be placed
on a work session for discussion prior to a vote on the regular agenda.
   E.   In all cases of adoption, repeal or amendment of an ordinance, the ayes
and nays shall be taken and entered on record, but a failure thus to enter them
shall not invalidate the action of the council. In all other cases, if any
council member requires it, and the motion is seconded, the ayes and nays on
any question shall be taken and entered upon the minutes. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-
2022)
1-4A-19: RESOLUTION:
   A.   A resolution is a formal statement of policy or order for action. City
council action shall be taken by resolution when required by law and in those
instances where an expression of policy more formal than a motion is desired,
or where a more complete written record is appropriate.
   B.   Resolutions require one reading and the approval of a majority of all
of the members of the council. They become effective once signed by the mayor
and are subject to the mayor's power to veto or take no action.
   C.   Mayor And Staff: Mayor and staff members shall submit resolutions to
the agenda in accordance with subsection
1-4A-14A1 of this code.
   D.   Council members shall submit proposed resolutions in accordance with
subsection
1-4A-14A2 of this code. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4A-20: MOTION:
   A.   A motion is a measure passed by the city council directing that a
specific action be taken on behalf of the municipality. A motion becomes
effective upon passage.
   B.   No motion shall be put or debated unless seconded. When a motion is
seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding officer before debate, and every
motion shall be reduced to writing if required by the presiding officer or any
council member.
   C.   After a motion or resolution is stated by the presiding officer, it
shall be deemed to be in possession of the city council, but may be withdrawn
at any time before decision; however, if any amendment has been proposed or
adopted, the motion or resolution shall not be withdrawn without the consent of
the mover of the amendment.
   D.   If a question in debate contains several distinct propositions, any
member may have the question divided when the sense admits of it, prior to the
vote thereon.
   E.   In all cases where a resolution or a motion is entered on the minutes
of the city council, the name of the council member moving the resolution or
motion shall also be entered. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4A-21: MOTION TO CALL THE PREVIOUS QUESTION:
A motion to call the previous question may be made to any immediately pending
debatable or amendable motion. The motion is out of order when another council
member has the floor, must receive a second, and must be approved by two-thirds
majority vote of a quorum of the city council. If the motion carries, all
debate must cease and the question shall be immediately put to a vote. (Ord.
5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4A-22: MOTION TO ADJOURN:
   A.   A motion to adjourn the city council shall be in order except:
      1.   When a council member is in possession of the floor.
      2.   While the council members are voting.
      3.   When adjournment was the last preceding motion.
      4.   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be taken.
   B.   A motion to adjourn the meeting may be made at the end of the public
meeting. The city council may make a motion to adjourn to a specific date and
time in the future. A motion to adjourn to a future date and time is open to
debate and may be amended. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4A-23: MOTION TO AMEND:
   A.   A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but to amend an
amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained.
   B.   An amendment modifying the intention of a motion shall be in order, but
an amendment relating to a different subject shall not be in order. (Ord. 5662,
9-19-2022)
1-4A-24: MOTION TO POSTPONE:
A motion to postpone, if seconded and approved by majority vote of the city
council, shall postpone an agenda item to either a specific date and time or
indefinitely. Any item on the agenda, which is to be considered on a specific,
future date and time shall be postponed to that meeting rather than tabled.
(Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4A-25: MOTION TO RECONSIDER:
   A.   A motion to reconsider shall be made by a council member who voted on
the prevailing side, or by those who were absent and did not vote upon the
motion to be reconsidered. The motion may be seconded by any council member.
   B.   A motion may be reconsidered at any time during the same council
meeting. A motion for reconsideration being once made and decided in the
negative, shall not be renewed before the next meeting. A motion to reconsider
may be made during the first meeting held after the item was considered by the
city council. A motion to reconsider shall be made during the other council
business portion of the agenda. If the motion to reconsider is approved by
majority vote, the agenda item will be placed on the agenda the following week
for a vote.
   C.   A motion to reconsider may be made by a council member at the first
council meeting after that item was considered and voted upon by council. Other
than the same meeting as originally voted upon or the first meeting after that
original vote, a motion to reconsider is out of order.
   D.   A motion to reconsider shall not be made to an affirmative vote on a
contract and the party has been notified of the outcome, the provisions of the
motion have been partially carried out, a vote has caused something to be done
that cannot be undone, or some other parliamentary motion can obtain the same
result. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4A-26: MOTION TO RESCIND:
Council members may rescind any vote by a majority vote, provided notice of the
motion to rescind has been given at the previous meeting. If notice was not
provided at a previous meeting, a vote may be rescinded by a two-thirds vote.
City staff may place a motion to rescind on the agenda when it is procedurally
necessary to rescind a vote. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4A-27: POINT OF ORDER:
   A.   A council member shall raise a point of order when they believe a
violation of the rules contained in this Article has occurred. The presiding
officer shall immediately provide a ruling and enforce the rules of this
Article. If the presiding officer does not know the answer to the point of
order, the presiding officer may refer the question to the city attorney or
city clerk.
   B.   A point of order is in order when another council member has the floor,
it does not require a second, is not debatable, is not amendable, and cannot be
reconsidered. The city council may appeal the decision of the presiding
officer. Appeals of a ruling made by the presiding officer shall be made in
accordance with subsection
1-4A-7C of this Article.
   C.   Timeliness: A point of order shall be raised at the time the breach of
the rules of this Article occurs. A point of order shall not be made at the
time the question has been put to a vote. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4A-28: TIE VOTE:
When a tie vote occurs, the motion fails. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4A-29: ABSTENTIONS:
All council members are required to vote on an item unless they have a direct
interest, in which case, they shall abstain from voting. A direct interest
could be a familial, business, or financial tie to an agenda item. Abstentions
shall only be used in the case of a conflict of interest. An abstention
declared for any reason other than a conflict of interest shall be recorded as
a vote in the affirmative. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4A-30: CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
   A.   Any council member present at any meeting may disqualify themselves or
abstain from voting in case of a conflict of interest, in which case the
disqualification shall be publicly declared and a record made thereof.
   B.   A conflict of interest shall be recorded in the minutes as an
abstention and the vote shall be calculated based on the number of members not
disqualified based on the conflict.
   C.   Public meetings and formal action during those meetings are occurrences
where appearances are as important as substance. The test of whether the
appearance of a conflict of interest is present is as follows: "Would a
disinterested person, having been apprised of the totality of a council
member's personal interest in a matter being acted upon, be reasonably
justified in thinking that partiality may exist?"
   D.   Prior to taking office, each council member shall complete a conflict
of interest declaration form. Said forms shall be filed with the chief
financial officer, and council members shall be required to disclose additional
conflicts of interest as they arise thereafter.
   E.   In order to assure their independence and impartiality on behalf of the
common good, council members shall not use their official positions to
influence government decisions in which they have a material financial,
business, or personal interest, in accordance with Iowa Code sections 68B.2A
and 362.5. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4A-31: CONFLICT OF INTEREST PROTEST:
Council members seeking to disqualify a council member from participating in a
decision based on a conflict of interest shall raise the challenge as soon as
the basis for disqualification is made known or reasonably should have been
made known prior to the issuance of the decision. Appeals shall be made to the
presiding officer who will then confer with the city attorney. (Ord. 5662, 9-
19-2022)
1-4A-32: GENERAL RULES FOR PUBLIC PARTICIPATION:
   A.   Iowa Code chapter 21 gives the public the right to attend council
meetings, but it does not require cities to allow public participation except
during public hearings. The public is required to follow the rules listed in
this article when speaking during any meeting of the city council.
   B.   At the presiding officer's discretion, individuals may address the
presiding officer by stepping to the podium, and after recognition by the
presiding officer, shall state their name, address and group affiliation, if
appropriate, and speak clearly into the microphone.
   C.   Comments shall be germane and refrain from personal, impertinent, or
slanderous remarks.
   D.   Cell phones and electronic devices shall be set to silent prior to the
start of the meeting. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4A-33: PUBLIC COMMENT SECTION OF THE AGENDA:
   A.   Individuals shall speak one (1) time on only one (1) issue for a
maximum of three (3) minutes. During the public comment section of the agenda.
The public shall not be required to pre-register to speak during public
comment. Individuals shall only speak on matters not listed on the regular
session agenda for that date. Any matter presented shall be directed to the
presiding officer and addressed, if necessary, after the meeting.
   B.   Council members may speak during public comment portion of the agenda
after the public has finished speaking.
   C.   City staff shall not be required to provide an immediate answer to a
matter presented during a council meeting unless it specifically pertains to an
item on the agenda. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4A-34: PUBLIC COMMENT DURING PUBLIC HEARINGS:
Individuals may speak during the public comment portion of a scheduled public
hearing for a maximum of three (3) minutes or may submit written comments to
the city clerk by four o'clock (4:00) P.M. on the day of the public hearing.
Groups of citizens with similar viewpoints are encouraged to select a
representative to share the viewpoint of the group. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4A-35: PUBLIC COMMENT DURING REGULAR SESSION AND SPECIAL SESSION AGENDA
ITEMS:
At the discretion of the presiding officer, individuals may speak for a maximum
of three (3) minutes when the council discusses agenda items. This section does
not apply to businesses or parties directly involved in agenda items. (Ord.
5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4A-36: PUBLIC COMMENT DURING WORK SESSION AND PLANNING SESSION, MEETINGS:
   A.   Work Session: The city council shall not receive any public comment
during a work session.
   B.   Planning Session: The public may only comment on bill payments and
agenda items not deemed planning session discussion topics listed on a planning
session agenda. On only these items and at the discretion of the presiding
officer, individuals may speak for a maximum of three (3) minutes. The city
council shall not receive any public comment during the meeting on agenda items
designated as planning discussion topics. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4A-37: VIOLATING RULES OF PUBLIC PARTICIPATION AND SERGEANT AT ARMS:
Violations of the rules for public participation listed in this article shall
be addressed at the presiding officer's discretion. The chief of police or
designee shall serve as the sergeant at arms for meetings of the city council.
The presiding officer may direct the sergeant at arms to eject anyone from the
council meeting for disruptions of any kind. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
ARTICLE B. CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
SECTION:
1-4B-1: Purpose
1-4B-2: Scope
1-4B-3: Interpretation
1-4B-4: Confidential Information
1-4B-5: Closed Sessions
1-4B-6: Violation
1-4B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to establish rules for elected officials and
employees concerning the dissemination of confidential information and
emphasize their duty to protect the city from liability or financial loss by
disseminating confidential information. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4B-2: SCOPE:
Confidential information shall include but not be limited to the following:
information deemed confidential pursuant to Iowa Code section 22.5, information
presented during closed session meetings, and legal, personnel, property, and
economic development matters. Questions regarding whether information should
remain confidential should be referred to the city attorney, city clerk, or
appropriate staff member. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4B-3: INTERPRETATION:
This article shall not be construed to prohibit reporting bona fide violations
of law or city policy to a proper authority or agency for investigation. (Ord.
5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4B-4: CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION:
   A.   Elected officials and employees shall respect the confidentiality of
information concerning the property, personnel, or affairs of the city. An
elected official or employee shall not knowingly disclose information that they
know or reasonably should know is confidential information, regardless of the
source of the information, without legal authorization. If an issue arises as
to whether information is confidential, the city attorney shall provide a legal
opinion.
   B.   An elected official or employee shall not knowingly use or disclose any
information gained in the course of or by reason of his or her official
position, and which has not been made public, to advance his or her financial
interests or to further the financial interests of any family member or
business relationship.
   C.   Elected officials and employees shall not disseminate information
concerning pending or threatened litigation to which the city is a party or
threatened to be made a party, which could reasonably be interpreted as an
admission of liability on behalf of the city or which a reasonable person would
interpret as being prejudicial to the interests of the city, unless compelled
to do so by law. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4B-5: CLOSED SESSIONS:
Information discussed or to be discussed in closed session is confidential,
shall remain confidential, and is not to be discussed outside the closed
session. Information discussed in closed session may be discussed during a
regular session or special session of the city council when action is required
by council. This section shall apply to any individual present for a close
session meeting. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4B-6: VIOLATION:
   A.   Disclosing confidential information may have detrimental effects on the
city including its finances and reputation, elected officials individually,
staff members, and citizens. Elected officials and employees are encouraged to
ask questions and seek and heed the advice of city staff, insurance providers,
and legal counsel when involved in matters that are confidential in nature.
   B.   Complaints alleging violation of this article shall be reported in
writing to the mayor, or if the mayor is involved, to the mayor pro tem. The
complaint shall include specific, detailed information to support the
allegation. The complaint shall then be referred to the city attorney or
appropriate staff member for investigation.
   C.   Violations of this article may include but are not limited to the
following penalties:
      1.   Censure: Censure may apply to elected officials and proceedings
shall be conducted in accordance with Article 1-4D of this code. Censure should
only be exercised when members can objectively prove a violation of the policy
has occurred and can ensure that further disclosure of confidential information
will not take place as a byproduct of censuring an elected official.
      2.   Personal Liability: An elected official may be personally liable if
acts in the performance of a duty are performed with intentional misconduct or
knowing violation of the law, or for a transaction from which the person
derives an improper personal benefit. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
ARTICLE C. CODE OF ETHICAL CONDUCT
SECTION:
1-4C-1: Purpose
1-4C-2: Definitions
1-4C-3: Scope
1-4C-4: Standards Of Conduct
1-4C-5: Ex Parte Communications
1-4C-6: Disclosure Of Interest And Recusal Procedures
1-4C-7: Advisory Opinions
1-4C-8: Reporting Of Ethics Violation Of A Member
1-4C-9: Penalties, Forfeited Position, Exemptions; Injunctions
1-4C-10: Distribution Of Code Of Ethics
1-4C-1: PURPOSE:
Accepting a position as an elected official or appointed member of a
governmental body of the City of Waterloo carries with it the acceptance of
trust placed on that individual by the public to strive to further the interest
of all citizens and operate an effective local government. This article
establishes a common set of principles and standards by which elected and
appointed members of a governmental body of the City of Waterloo shall conduct
themselves in order to garner and preserve public trust. The City of Waterloo
believes ethical misconduct is a serious violation of public trust and
therefore this article establishes disciplinary measures to deter such
misconduct. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4C-2: DEFINITIONS:
This article shall apply to all elected and appointed members of governmental
bodies of the City of Waterloo. This article shall not apply to city employees
serving on governmental bodies of the City of Waterloo. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4C-3: SCOPE:
For the purpose of this article, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them by this section.
ADVISORY BOARD: Any ad hoc committee, board, committee, or commission of the
city that functions in an advisory or study capacity to aid a governmental body
in decision-making.
BUSINESS ENTITY: A sole proprietorship, partnership, firm, corporation, estate,
association, holding company, joint-stock company, receivership, trust, or any
other entity recognized by law.
GOVERNMENTAL BODY: Shall mean the same as the term governmental body, as
defined by Iowa Code section 21.2(1).
KNOWINGLY: A person acts with knowledge, with respect to the nature of their
conduct or to circumstances surrounding their conduct when they are aware of
the nature of their conduct or that the circumstance exists. A person acts
knowing or with knowledge, with respect to a result of their conduct when they
are aware that their conduct is reasonably certain to cause the result.
MEMBER: Any elected individual and any appointed member of a board, commission,
advisory board, or committee established by a governmental body by ordinance,
resolution, charter, or state law. For the purposes of this article, city
employees shall be excluded from the definition of member.
SUBSTANTIAL INTEREST:
   1.   A person has a substantial interest in the business entity if:
      a.   The interest is ownership of five percent (5%) or more or six
thousand dollars ($6,000.00) or more of fair market value of the business
entity; or
      b.   Funds received by the person from the business entity exceed five
percent (5%) of the person's gross income for the previous year; or
      c.   The person holds a position of member of the board of directors or
other governing board of the business entity; or
      d.   The person serves as an elected officer of the business entity; or
      e.   The person is an employee of the business entity; or
      f.   The person is a creditor, debtor, or guarantor of the business
entity in the amount of six thousand dollars ($6,000.00) or more; or
      g.   Property of the person has been pledged to the business entity or is
subject to a lien in favor of the business entity in the amount of six thousand
dollars ($6,000.00) or more.
   2.   A person does not have a substantial interest in a business entity if:
      a.   The person has been designated by the city council to serve as a
member of the board of directors or other governing board of a business entity;
and
      b.   The person receives no remuneration, either directly or indirectly,
for their service on such board; and
      c.   The primary nature of the business entity is either charitable, non-
profit, or governmental.
   3.   A person has a substantial interest in real property if the interest is
an equitable or legal ownership interest with a fair market value of six
thousand dollars ($6,000.00) or more.
   4.   A person has a substantial interest under this chapter if the person's
spouse or a person related to the person in the first degree by consanguinity
or affinity has a substantial interest under this chapter. A person is related
in the first degree of consanguinity to their father, mother, brother, sister,
son, or daughter. A person is related in the first degree of affinity to their
father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother's spouse, sister's spouse, son-in-law, or
daughter-in-law.
(Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4C-4: STANDARDS OF CONDUCT:
   A.   General Principles: Members shall comply with the laws of the United
States, the State of Iowa, and the City of Waterloo, Iowa's ordinances,
resolutions, and policies in the performance of their public duties.
   B.   Conduct of Members: Members shall treat the public, city employees, and
fellow members in a respectful manner. During and outside of meetings of a
governmental body, members shall strive to discuss city business in an informed
and factual manner.
   C.   Public Meetings: Members shall prepare themselves for all public
meetings, listen attentively to all public discussions, hearings, and
presentations, and participate in the business of the governmental body.
   D.   No member, directly or indirectly, or by others on their behalf or
their request, or suggestion shall knowingly do the following:
      1.   Engage in any private business, transaction, or employment or have
any substantial interest therein, which is incompatible or in conflict with the
proper and impartial discharge of their duties on behalf of the city or which
would be in violation of conflict of interest prohibitions found at Iowa Code
section 68B.2A, or which would violate provisions of Iowa Code section 362.5
(2);
      2.   Represent any private party before the governmental body on which
the member sits or over which the member has appointment or budgetary powers;
      3.    Disclose without authorization or use to further a personal
interest, confidential information acquired in the course of their official
duties;
      4.   Grant or influence the granting of any special consideration,
advantage or favor, to any person, group firm, or corporation beyond that which
is the general practice to grant or make available to the public at-large;
      5.   Accept anything of economic value such as money, service, gift, loan
gratuity, favor or promise thereof for the purpose and intent of which is to
influence any such member in the exercise of their official judgment, power, or
authority, unless specifically exempted by Iowa Code section 68B.22;
      6.   Make personal use of staff, vehicles, equipment, materials, or
property of the city except in the course of their official duties or as duly
authorized through the proper process.
      7.   Participate in the appointment, vote for the appointment, or
discussion of any appointment of an immediate family member or business
associate or use their position, directly or indirectly, to effect the
employment status of an immediate family member or business associate to any
city office or position, paid or unpaid; and
      8.   Receive or have any financial interest in any sale to the city of
any real estate when such financial interest was received under circumstances,
which would lead a reasonable person to expect that the city intended to
purchase, condemn, or lease said real estate. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4C-5: EX PARTE COMMUNICATIONS:
In any such quasi-judicial matter (e.g. personnel decisions, condemnation
proceedings, zoning rules, matters involving the issuance of a permit or
license, or other such matter) or the award of a contract before a governmental
body, a member of that governmental body shall not communicate with or accept a
communication from a person for which there are reasonable grounds for
believing to be a party to the matter being considered, if such communication
is designed to influence the councilor's, board member's, or officer's actions
on that matter. If such communication should occur, the member shall disclose
it at an open meeting of the governmental body prior to its consideration of
the matter. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4C-6: DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST AND RECUSAL PROCEDURES:
Whenever a matter comes before the governmental body as to which any conflict
of interest standard applies to one of its members, as prescribed in section
1-4C-4, the following provisions shall apply:
   A.   A member shall disclose the existence of any substantial interest in a
business entity or real property involved in any decision pending before a
member or the governmental body of which the individual is a member.
   B.   Following such disclosure, the member shall not participate in any
consideration, discussion, or vote on the matter before the governmental body.
   C.   The member shall not, during any part of the meeting of the
governmental body pertaining to the matter requiring the disclosure, represent,
advocate on behalf of, or otherwise act as the agent of the person or business
entity in or with which the member has such an interest or relationship. (Ord.
5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4C-7: ADVISORY OPINIONS:
   A.   Where any member has a doubt as to the applicability of any provision
of this article to a particular situation, they may request an advisory opinion
from the city attorney. The individual shall have the opportunity to present
their interpretation of the facts at issue and of the applicability of this
article to the city attorney before such advisory opinion is made. The member
shall seek an advisory opinion from the city attorney when they first become
aware that a conflict may exist.
   B.   Until amended or revoked, any advisory opinion shall be binding on the
city in any subsequent actions concerning the member who sought the opinion and
acted on it in good faith, unless material facts were omitted or misstated in
the request for the advisory opinion. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4C-8: REPORTING OF ETHICS VIOLATION OF A MEMBER:
   A.   Elected Official: Procedures for reporting complaints concerning
elected officials under this article shall follow sections
1-4D-3 of this Code.
   B.   All Other Members - Contents Of Complaint: Any member may file a
written complaint concerning an alleged violation of this article by a member
of a governmental body that is not appointed to an elected position. The
complaint shall include the following:
      1.   Specific allegations and supporting evidence of specific conduct
alleged to violate this code or adopted city policy.
      2.   Specific references to code sections or adopted city policies the
complainant alleges were violated. Copies of the code section or policy shall
be included with the complaint.
      3.   Complaints must include specific dates the alleged violations
occurred.
   C.   Filing: The complaint shall be filed with the city clerk. Complaints
must be filed within three (3) months of discovering the alleged violation.
Complaints filed after the time limitation shall be rejected.
   D.   Investigation: The city clerk shall forward the complaint to the mayor,
city attorney, or other proper authority to conduct an investigation to
determine whether the allegations in the complaint violate this code or city
policy. The city clerk shall also forward the complaint to the accused
individual.
   E.   Report: Within thirty (30) calendar days from the date a complaint is
filed, the mayor shall produce a written report stating whether a preponderance
of evidence exists to support the complaint. A resolution recommending
disciplinary action shall be placed on the city council agenda for a vote
within fourteen (14) days of the date of the report and the report shall be
included as an exhibit to the resolution. If the report is in the negative, the
complaint shall not proceed to disciplinary action. A negative report may
recommend corrective action be taken by the accused to prevent further issue.
(Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4C-9: PENALTIES, FORFEITED POSITION, EXEMPTIONS; INJUNCTIONS:
   A.   Except where otherwise provided by State law, it is not the intent of
this article that violations therefore be subject to criminal penalties.
   B.   Whenever it is determined by a preponderance of evidence that any
member has violated any provision of this article, such individual shall be
subject to discipline. Discipline may include the following:
      1.   Council Members: Any alleged violation of this article is grounds
for censure and shall follow the rules for carrying out censure as listed in
sections
1-4D-4 and
1-4D-5 of this Code.
      2.   Appointed Members: Any member appointed to serve on a governmental
body of the City of Waterloo shall be subject to discipline as determined by
the city council. The city council shall be limited to the following
disciplinary action:
         a.   Censure: Censure by the city council shall be executed in
accordance with section
1-4D-4 of this Code. References to city council members shall apply to
appointed members.
         b.   Removal From Appointed Position: The city council may, by
resolution, remove a member of a governmental body. Such resolution shall
require an affirmative vote of five (5) members of the city council to pass.
Any individual removed from an appointed position on a governmental body of the
City of Waterloo shall be prohibited from being appointed to any other
governmental body of the City of Waterloo. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4C-10: DISTRIBUTION OF CODE OF ETHICS:
Each member shall receive a copy of this article before entering into the
duties of their office or position. Any individual that receives a copy of this
article shall sign a written statement acknowledging receipt, understanding,
and agreeing to abide by this article. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
ARTICLE D. CENSURE OF ELECTED OFFICIALS
SECTION:
1-4D-1: Purpose
1-4D-2: Censure Defined
1-4D-3: Complaint Procedure
1-4D-4: Censure
1-4D-5: Censure Of Former Council Members
1-4D-1: PURPOSE:
Elected officials may pursue formal action in the form of censure to deter
violations of this code and violations of adopted city policies. (Ord. 5662, 9-
19-2022)
1-4D-2: CENSURE DEFINED:
Censure is a formal reprimand of a council member or the mayor for specified
conduct that violates this code or adopted city policies. Censure should not
follow an occasional error in judgment, which occurs in good faith and is
unintentional. Censure carries no fine or suspension of the rights of the
member or mayor as an elected official. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4D-3: COMPLAINT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Contents Of Complaint: The mayor or any member of the city council may
file a written complaint concerning an alleged violation of this code or of
city policy by a council member, the mayor, or appointed member of a
governmental body as defined by section
1-4C-2D. The complaint shall include the following:
      1.   Specific allegations and supporting evidence of specific conduct
alleged to violate this code or adopted city policy.
      2.   Specific references to code sections or adopted city policies the
complainant alleges were violated. Copies of the code section or policy shall
be included with the complaint.
      3.   Complaints must include specific dates the alleged violations
occurred.
   B.   Filing: The complaint shall be filed with the mayor, or if the mayor is
involved, with the mayor pro tem. Complaints must be filed within three (3)
months of discovering the alleged violation. Complaints filed after the time
limitation shall be rejected. A censure complaint may be filed at the time of a
regular session meeting but the complainant shall be prohibited from reading or
commenting on the contents of the complaint during the meeting.
   C.   Investigation: The mayor or mayor pro tem shall forward the complaint
to the city attorney, police chief, human resources director, or other proper
authority to conduct an investigation to determine whether the allegations in
the complaint violate this code or city policy. The mayor or mayor pro tem
shall also forward the complaint to the city clerk to receive and file, and to
the accused individual.
   D.   Report: Within thirty (30) calendar days from the date a complaint is
filed, the mayor or mayor pro tem shall produce a written report stating
whether a preponderance of evidence exists to warrant censure. A resolution
recommending censure shall be placed on the city council agenda for a vote
within fourteen (14) days of the date of the report and the report shall be
included as an exhibit to the resolution. If the report is in the negative, the
complaint shall not proceed to censure. A negative report may recommend
corrective action be taken by the accused to prevent further issue. (Ord. 5662,
9-19-2022)
1-4D-4: CENSURE:
A city council decision to censure shall be adopted by resolution. The
resolution shall list the findings, based on a preponderance of evidence that
the person accused has engaged in conduct that constitutes a violation of this
code or adopted city policy. The city council shall be prohibited from amending
the resolution. The resolution shall be approved by five (5) affirmative votes
of the council. The accused council member or mayor may participate in
deliberations. The accused council member or mayor shall be allowed to speak to
the contents of the resolution and findings within the investigation prior to a
vote on the resolution. The accused council member may vote on the censure
resolution. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
1-4D-5: CENSURE OF FORMER COUNCIL MEMBERS:
Complaints regarding the conduct of a former elected official may be brought by
a current elected official for improper conduct that occurred while the former
elected official was in office. Complaints against a former elected official
shall be filed and investigated in accordance with this article. The accused
former elected official shall be allowed to speak to the contents of the
resolution to censure and findings of the investigation prior to a vote on the
resolution. (Ord. 5662, 9-19-2022)
CHAPTER 5
MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Compensation
1-5-2: Surety Bonds
1-5-1: COMPENSATION:
Each officer or employee of the city shall receive such compensation for his
services as the city council may establish from time to time by ordinance or
resolution. (1970 Code, § 2-5)
1-5-2: SURETY BONDS:
All city officers and employees shall be covered by a surety bond running to
the city. (1970 Code, § 2-6)
ARTICLE A. CITY CLERK
SECTION:
1-5A-1: Appointment, Qualification And Term
1-5A-2: Deputy City Clerk
1-5A-3: Duties And Responsibilities
1-5A-4: Reports
1-5A-5: Fees Of Office
1-5A-1: APPOINTMENT, QUALIFICATION AND TERM:
The city clerk shall be appointed by the city council. Said appointment shall
be in accordance with all city policies and procedures regarding recruitment,
selection, and appointment of employees. The city clerk shall serve as an at-
will employee, and unless the city clerk resigns or is terminated by the city
council, shall continue to serve in the position. Within ten (10) days from
such appointment, the city clerk shall qualify as provided by state law and
city code. (Ord. 5641, 5-2-2022)
1-5A-2: DEPUTY CITY CLERK:
The city clerk may, with the approval of the city council, appoint a deputy
city clerk who shall perform the duties of the city clerk during the absence or
disability of the city clerk. Said appointment shall be in accordance with all
city policies and procedures regarding recruitment, selection, and appointment
of employees. The deputy city clerk shall serve as an at-will employee, and
unless the deputy clerk resigns or is terminated by the city clerk, shall
continue to serve in the position. (Ord. 5641, 5-2-2022)
1-5A-3: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The city clerk shall perform the following duties:
   A.   General Duties:
      1.   Coordinate the preparation of council meeting agendas, attend
meetings of the city council, and take minutes of said meetings; and
      2.   Write resolutions, ordinances, and amendments and publish hearing
notices; and
      3.   Issue notices of regular and special elections required to be given
by law or in pursuance of any provision of this code, or other city ordinance
or resolution of the city council, issue all notices of special meetings of the
city council when called, as provided by law; and
      4.   Notify committees of business referred to them by the city council;
and
      5.   Maintain and safeguard records of the city and keep records in the
manner and duration required by law; and
      6.   Administer the city liability insurance program, procure liability
insurance for the city, and set liability limits and requirements as may be
advisable and necessary to prevent unnecessary risk to the city; and
      7.    Direct, coordinate, and oversee the work of the employees of the
city clerk’s office; and
      8.   Perform such other duties as may be required by the laws of the
state, this code, other city ordinances or resolutions, or as may be directed
by the mayor and city council.
   B.   Certification of Assessments: Certify to the county auditor, as
provided by law, all assessments and taxes of every kind and nature levied by
the city council which are required to be so certified.
   C.   Records:
      1.   Deeds and Contracts: Keep copies of all deeds and contracts executed
by or in favor of the city, and shall properly index them.
      2.   Licenses, Permits, Policies, and Petitions: Keep all licenses and
permits granted by the city clerk’s office for a period in accordance with
state law, this code, or city policy, noting the date when issued, the person
to whom issued, and the date of expiration of the license or permit. Keep on
file a copy of all policies adopted by the city council. File and preserve in
the city clerk’s office all petitions, remonstrances, and other papers
presented to the city council by the public at a public meeting.
   D.   Purchases: Procure materials for the city council to use during council
meetings and materials, products, and supplies necessary to facilitate the
operation of the city clerk’s office. (Ord. 5641, 5-2-2022)
1-5A-4: REPORTS:
The city clerk shall report upon any of the matters connected with the office
of the city clerk whenever called upon by the city council to do so; keep all
returns of assessments, and the election and appointment of city officers, and
shall as soon as practicable after each meeting of the city council, prepare
minutes of the business transacted and a correct copy of all resolutions and
ordinances adopted, and deliver ordinances to the official newspaper for
publication, and shall not allow any papers or documents to be taken from the
office of the city clerk without the consent of the city council. (Ord. 5641,
5-2-2022)
1-5A-5: FEES OF OFFICE:
For attested certificates and transcripts other than those ordered by the city
council, the city clerk shall charge the same fees as are allowed to county
officers for like services; and shall keep a record of such fees and turn the
same into the general fund. (Ord. 5641, 5-2-2022)
ARTICLE B. CITY TREASURER
SECTION:
1-5B-1: Appointment; Qualifications
1-5B-2: Duties And Responsibilities
1-5B-1: APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS:
For the term commencing January 1, 1956, and for all terms subsequent thereto,
the mayor shall appoint the city treasurer, and the appointment shall be
subject to approval by the city council. Before entering upon the discharge of
his duties, the city treasurer shall qualify as provided by law and file in the
office of the city clerk a bond in the sum of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00), with sureties to be approved by the city council. The city
council may, by resolution at any time it is deemed necessary, increase or
decrease the amount of the city treasurer's bond in such sum as it may specify
in the resolution. (Rev. Ord. 1207, Comp. 1941, p. T-9)
1-5B-2: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   City Funds: The city treasurer shall:
      1.   Collection: Collect, receive and safely keep all money due or
belonging to the city, and for any sum of money so received, he shall execute
duplicate receipts, one of which shall be delivered to the person from whom the
funds have been received, and the other transmitted to the city clerk. The city
treasurer shall keep true and correct accounts with each fund of all receipts
into, and disbursements from, the city treasury.
      2.   Deposits: Deposit city funds in approved depositories, in
conformance with the statutes of the state.
      3.   Waterworks Funds: Keep all monies deposited with him by the board of
waterworks trustees, and all tax money received by him from any source levied
and collected for and on account of the waterworks, in a separate and distinct
fund, and such monies shall be paid out by him only on written order of the
board of waterworks trustees.
   B.   Orders And Warrants:
      1.   Record: Keep a record of all orders or warrants paid by him,
received in payment of any funds due to the city or that may be presented for
payment, stating the number and amount of the same, to whom payable, on what
fund drawn, when presented and shall return all such orders paid to the city
clerk to be cancelled.
      2.   Presentation And Payment: The city treasurer shall:
         a.   Pay money from the city treasury only upon orders drawn upon him
by, and signed by the city clerk, and countersigned by the mayor, and attested
by the seal of the city, and all orders so drawn and paid shall be vouchers for
his disbursement.
         b.   If, on presentation for payment of any order or warrant drawn
pursuant to subsection B2a of this section, there is no money in the treasury
belonging to the fund out of which said order or warrant is made payable, the
city treasurer shall endorse the unpaid warrant or order as follows: "Presented
and not paid for want of funds", and thereafter such warrants shall bear
interest at the rate of six percent (6%) per annum, except warrants issued by a
resolution of the city council or contract with the city in which it is
provided that the warrants or order shall not bear interest; the city treasurer
shall, if required, endorse on such order or warrant the date of presentation,
and keep a record of them.
         c.   Pay warrants not honored pursuant to subsection B2b of this
section, in the order of their presentation, from the particular fund upon
which they are drawn, and when there is an accumulation in the treasury of the
sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00) in any fund, the city treasurer shall
call in warrants to the amount of such fund for payment in the order of their
presentation, or make such call at any time that the city council may direct.
The city treasurer shall give notice of the number of the warrants which will
be paid by posting a written notice thereof in the mayor's office and in the
city treasurer's office, and by publishing notice of such call in one daily or
weekly newspaper, which notices shall state that at the expiration of ten (10)
days from the date of posting the notice, interest on the warrants named
therein shall cease.
   C.   Additional Duties: The city treasurer shall perform such other duties
as may be required by the laws of the state, or as may be required by this code
or other city ordinance. (Rev. Ord. 1207, Comp. 1941, p. T-9; amd. 2001 Code)
ARTICLE C. FINANCE DIRECTOR
SECTION:
1-5C-1: Office Created; Appointment
1-5C-2: Qualifications; Bond
1-5C-3: Duties
1-5C-4: Compensation
1-5C-1: OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created within the city, and as a part of the municipal
governmental structure of said city, the office of finance director. The
finance director shall be appointed by the mayor, with the approval of the city
council. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the removal of and the
termination of the appointment of said officer for cause as provided by law.
(Ord. 2703, 11-4-1974)
1-5C-2: QUALIFICATIONS; BOND:
   A.   Qualifications: Any person so appointed as finance director under the
provisions of this article, shall have a comprehensive and detailed knowledge
of the general laws and administrative policies governing municipal financial
practices and procedures, principles and practices of accounting and budgeting
in government, and be able to prepare informative financial reports, and to
perform fiscal planning and other budgetary matters so as to advise the mayor,
city council and department heads on fiscal and budgetary policy.
   B.   Bond: Within ten (10) days from the date of his appointment, the
finance director shall qualify as provided by law and file a bond in the sum of
ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) for the faithful performance of his duties
with sureties to be approved by the city council. (Ord. 2703, 11-4-1974)
1-5C-3: DUTIES:
The finance director shall maintain and supervise a central accounting system
for the city which accounting system should include preaudits and other
financial controls. He shall direct and coordinate the activities of the
employees of his department; advise department heads and the mayor and city
council in the review of revenue and expenditure estimates and in the
preparation and control of the budget; provide the mayor with timely and
informative financial reports and statements, and generally supervise all
financial matters for the city and shall perform such other and further duties
as may be required by the laws of the state, or as may be required by this
article or other city ordinances. The work of the finance director shall be
reviewed through conferences with the mayor and city council and by independent
postaudits. (Ord. 2703, 11-4-1974)
1-5C-4: COMPENSATION:
The salary to be paid to the finance director shall be that fixed by proper and
appropriate resolution of the city council. (Ord. 2703, 11-4-1974)
WA0530   1-5D.txt ()CHAPTER 5
MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS
ARTICLE D. CITY ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-5D-1: Appointment; Qualifications
1-5D-2: Duties And Responsibilities
1-5D-1: APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS:
A city attorney may be appointed by the city council, and shall within ten (10)
days after his appointment qualify as provided by law. (Rev. Ord. 1195, Comp.
1941, p. S-16; amd. 2001 Code)
1-5D-2: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Litigation; Collection Of Judgments; Disposition Of Funds: It shall be
the duty of the city attorney to prosecute all suits for the recovery of fines
and penalties which may be brought in any court on behalf of the city, and also
to institute and defend all suits which may be brought in any court by or
against the city, or any of its officers, on account of any of their official
acts. The city attorney shall cause executions to be issued on judgments which
may be recovered and attend to their prompt collection. All money received by
him on account of the city shall be paid into the city treasury.
   B.   Advising City Officials; Preparation Of Documents: It shall be the duty
of the city attorney to act as legal advisor to the city council, its
committees and all city officers, on such questions as may arise in relation to
the business of the city and, when required by the city council, he shall give
his opinion in writing. The city attorney shall, when so required by the city
council, draft all bonds, contracts, leases, conveyances, ordinances and other
instruments in writing, and he shall perform all other services in the line of
his profession connected with the business of the city not enumerated in this
article, and he shall, in all cases, be subject to the direction of the city
council.
   C.   Conformance Of City Ordinances With State Laws: Upon or before January
1, after the adjournment of any general assembly, the city attorney shall
prepare and present to the city council for passage such ordinances as may be
required to amend existing ordinances or to repeal existing ordinances on
account of laws enacted by the general assembly, or such ordinances as may be
necessary or which the city attorney shall think proper in view of the laws
enacted by the general assembly amending existing statutes or creating new
statutes applicable to the city. (Rev. Ord. 1195, Comp. 1941, p. S-16; amd.
2001 Code)
   D.   Additional Duties: The city attorney shall be responsible for code
enforcement, and code enforcement officers, which are not specifically placed
under the management of the building inspection department pursuant to sections
1-6D-1,
1-6D-2 and
1-6D-3 of this title. The city attorney shall also perform such other duties as
shall be required by the laws of the state, or such as may be required by this
code, other ordinances of the city, or as may be required by the city council.
(Ord. 5319, 11-23-2015)
CHAPTER 6
MUNICIPAL DEPARTMENTS
ARTICLE A. POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-6A-1: Department Established
1-6A-2: Definitions
1-6A-3: Police Chief
1-6A-4: General Department Powers And Duties
1-6A-5: Mandatory Policies
1-6A-6: Reserve Unit
1-6A-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
All ordinances of the city creating, establishing and structuring the police
department, not inconsistent with the provisions of this code, are hereby
expressly saved from repeal. (Ord. 5570, 8-17-2020)
1-6A-2: DEFINITIONS:
 
                               Discrimination in the performance of
                               duties, based on personal prejudices or
                               partiality of officers that interferes
                               with their professional judgment,
BIASED POLICING:               training or adherence to law. Biased
                               policing includes, but is not limited to,
                               making prejudicial decisions affecting
                               individuals in classes protected by
                               federal, state, and local law.
                               A law enforcement-initiated action based
                               on an individual's race, ethnicity,
                               gender, sexual orientation, or national
                               origin rather than on the individual's
                               behavior or on information identifying
RACIAL PROFILING/BIASED- BASED the individual as having engaged in
PROFILING:                     criminal activity. Racial profiling
                               pertains to persons viewed as suspects or
                               potential suspects of criminal behavior.
                               The term is not relevant as it pertains
                               to witnesses, complaints or other citizen
                               contacts. (Ord. 5570, 8-17-2020)
 
1-6A-3: POLICE CHIEF:
The chief of the police department shall be appointed by the mayor with
approval of the city council from the police chief civil service list. Nothing
herein contained shall prevent the removal of and the termination of the
appointment of the chief as provided by law or employment agreement. (Ord.
5570, 8-17-2020)
1-6A-4: GENERAL DEPARTMENT POWERS AND DUTIES:
The police department shall provide for the preservation of public peace and
enforcement of all state laws, city ordinances, and orders of the mayor during
civil emergencies; work to prevent and solve crimes; respond to emergency calls
for service involving life threatening situations and/or in-progress crimes;
may assist the city attorney whenever requested in the examination of the facts
concerning any case or possible case against the city; maintains a secure
system for police records and evidence. Employees of the police department
shall devote their whole time and attention while on duty to the business of
the department and shall at all times be subject to the rules and regulations
made by the chief of police concerning their conduct and duties.
   A.   Officers shall police in a proactive manner and investigate suspected
violations of law. It is the duty of the WPD to actively enforce state and
federal laws in a responsible and professional manner, without regard to race,
ethnicity, or national origin, and to police within the scope of the
Constitution.
   B.   Officers shall conduct themselves in a respectful manner at all times
when dealing with the public. Two (2) of the fundamental rights guaranteed by
the United States Constitution are equal protection under the law and freedom
from unreasonable searches and seizures by government agents. The WPD will
respect both, the rights of all persons to equitable treatment under the law,
and the right to be free from unreasonable searches and seizures. Engagement by
any WPD officer in racial profiling or biased based policing is both
unacceptable, and strictly prohibited. (Ord. 5570, 8-17-2020)
1-6A-5: MANDATORY POLICIES:
The chief of police shall develop, implement, and enforce training, programs,
or policies that address the following:
   A.   Establish a chief's policy and disciplinary review board.
   B.   Prohibit racial profiling.
   C.   Require biased free policing.
   D.   Require in car video and body-worn cameras.
   E.   Require crisis intervention training.
   F.   Require training for interactions with transgender individuals.
   G.   Require officers to de-escalate situations, when possible, before using
force.
   H.   Require a use of force rational decision-making model that defines or
limits the types of force to the minimum force necessary standard that can be
used to respond to levels of resistance.
   I.   Restrict or prohibit chokeholds and strangleholds, including positional
asphyxia and carotid restraints.
   J.   Require officers to give a verbal warning, when possible, before using
deadly force.
   K.   Prohibit officers from shooting at people in moving vehicles unless the
person poses a deadly threat by means other than the vehicle.
   L.   Require officers to exhaust all other reasonable alternatives before
resorting to the use of deadly force.
   M.   Require officers to adhere to their duty to intervene, to stop another
officer from using disproportionate force, and requiring officers to report
conduct that is inconsistent with the policies, procedures, directives,
standard operating procedures, mission, vision, ethics, values, and guiding
principles of the department, and the city of Waterloo.
   N.   Require officers to report both uses of force and threats of or
attempted uses of force. (Ord. 5570, 8-17-2020)
1-6A-6: RESERVE UNIT:
   A.   Creation: There is hereby created the Waterloo police reserve unit in
accordance with the provisions of Iowa Code chapter 80D.
   B.   Definition: A reserve police officer is a volunteer, non-regular, sworn
member of a law enforcement agency who has regular police powers while
functioning as an agency's representative and participates on a regular basis
in the agency's activities.
   C.   Membership; Qualifications:
      1.   Membership and Size: The size of the police reserve unit shall be
determined by the chief of police. The reserve organization shall consist of a
police reserve coordinator assigned by the chief of police from the membership
of the police department, a reserve captain, a lieutenant and sergeants to
serve as squad leaders for each squad of five (5) or more reservists as deemed
necessary. Membership in the police reserve shall be determined upon standards
established and approved by the chief of police. Applicants for membership
shall be certified by the chief of police upon recommendation of the police
reserve coordinator after satisfactory completion of the training standards.
Each reserve member shall take an oath of office.
      2.   Physical Examination: All police reserve officers shall
satisfactorily pass a department approved physical examination at their expense
prior to being appointed as a police reserve officer.
      3.   Standards And Training: All standards and training required under
Iowa Code chapter 80D shall constitute the minimum standards for police reserve
officers.
      4.   Status: Members of the police reserve shall be considered employees
of the city while they are performing police duties as authorized and directed
by the chief of police. However, they are not subject to the conditions of the
collective bargaining agreement of the police bargaining unit nor can they
derive any benefit from the police pension. They are also not subject to the
civil service provisions of Iowa Code chapter 80D.
      5.   Compensation: They shall receive a salary of two dollars ($2.00)
yearly from the city at the beginning of each fiscal year.
   D.   Officers Duties And Responsibilities:
      1.   Reserve Coordinator: The police reserve coordinator shall be
assigned by the chief of police from the membership of the police department
and responsible to the chief of police for the supervision, training,
recruitment and activities of the police reserve unit.
      2.   Reserve Captain: The police reserve captain shall be responsible to
the reserve coordinator for the command, control and direction of police
reserves. It shall be his duty to assist the police department in the
enforcement of all laws and city ordinances in such a manner and at such time
as directed by the police chief.
      3.   Reserve Lieutenant: The police reserve lieutenant shall assist the
reserve captain and supervise the reserve sergeants.
   E.   Removal: Members of the police reserve shall serve at the discretion of
the chief of police. They shall be appointed, promoted, removed and discharged
from such position by the police chief who may consider the recommendation of
the police reserve coordinator.
   F.   Rules: The police reserves may adopt a constitution, rules and
regulations for the conduct of meetings and activities consistent with city
ordinances and the laws of the state. All police reserve officers are subject
to the police department code of conduct and such other regulations as
established by the chief of police.
   G.   Uniform And Safety Equipment:
      1.   The city shall furnish all reserve officers with the following
equipment and uniform items:
         a.   One (1) reserve breast badge.
         b.   One (1) reserve badge.
         c.   One (1) ID card.
         d.   One (1) police reserve patch.
         e.   Ammunition for weapon.
      2.   Reserve officers shall furnish, at their own expense, the following
items (items shall be replaced as needed to provide the minimum as listed from
department approved suppliers):
         a.   One (1) pair of pants, navy blue.
         b.   One (1) summer shirt, navy blue.
         c.   One (1) winter shirt, navy blue.
         d.   One (1) cap, navy blue.
         e.   One (1) tie, black.
         f.   One (1) jacket, navy blue.
         g.   Leather equipment, i.e., to consist of belt, handcuffs with case.
         h.   Freeze +P spray with case.
         i.   One (1) department approved firearm.
         j.   One (1) ASP Baton.
         j.   One (1) ballistics vest.
         k.   One (1) helmet.
         l.   Name tags for shirts and jacket.
      3.   During their hours of duty, members of the police reserve shall wear
the uniform as prescribed by the chief of police.
   H.   Records: The police department shall keep an accurate record of all
members of the police reserves, their dates of admission and discharge. (Ord.
5570, 8-17-2020)
ARTICLE B. FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-6B-1: Fire Chief Appointment, Term, And Authority
1-6B-2: Department Powers And Duties
1-6B-3: Extraterritorial Assistance
1-6B-4: Department Established; Members
1-6B-1: FIRE CHIEF APPOINTMENT, TERM, AND AUTHORITY:
   A.   Appointment: The chief of the fire department shall be appointed by the
mayor with approval of the city council from the fire chief civil service list.
Nothing herein contained shall prevent the removal of and the termination of
the appointment of the chief as provided by law or employment agreement. The
supervision and management of the department shall be executed in accordance
with this Article.
   B.   Authority to Order Removal of Buildings: To order the removal of any
building or property that he may deem necessary for the purpose of checking or
stopping the progress of fire in the city.
   C.   Prescribe Limits Where Entry Is Prohibited: Prescribe limits in the
vicinity of any fire within which no person, except those who reside therein,
shall be permitted to enter.
   D.    Fire Arson Investigator: The fire chief shall appoint the fire arson
investigator to perform all of the duties and responsibilities of investigating
the cause, origin, and circumstances of fires as set forth in this code. The
fire arson investigator may be a peace officer as set forth in Iowa law and
said investigator may have all the powers, duties and responsibilities
attendant to the function of a peace officer, which shall include, but not be
limited to, the power of arrest. (Ord. 5641, 5-2-2022)
1-6B-2: DEPARTMENT POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Police Authority: All members of the fire department shall have and
exercise all the powers of police officers at the scene of a fire.
   B.   Presence for Duty: The members of the fire department shall remain in
the quarters provided for them by the city, day and night, when not necessarily
in other parts of the city attending to their duties prescribed by this
article, or by the rules and regulations of the fire department, and no officer
or member of the fire department shall be absent from duty at any time of day
or night without permission from the chief of the fire department or person
acting as such, and the procurement of a satisfactory substitute to act when
absent.
   C.   Command at Fire Scene: It shall be the duty of the first officer of the
fire department at a fire in the city to take charge thereof until a superior
officer shall arrive, and for such purpose he shall have all the powers of the
chief of the fire department.
   D.   Authority to Summon Assistance: If he deems it necessary, to summon any
or all persons able to perform labor, including operators of vehicles for hire,
to aid in the extinguishment of fires or removing property in danger thereof,
and in guarding the property, and any person refusing to obey such summons
shall be guilty of an offense.
   E.   Inspect Fire Hazards: After careful inquiry and investigations,
immediately notify, in writing, the owner or occupants of any building in the
city where there are any defective chimneys, smoke pipes or flues, or where
there are any fires or inflammable materials not sufficiently secured and
guarded, used or kept in, or in connection with, any such building, to
forthwith repair, remove, change or secure the same, as the case may require.
   F.   Emergency Medical Services, Hazardous Materials, and Rescue Services:
The department is authorized to provide ambulatory, hazardous materials, and
rescue services in addition to fire services.
   G.   Records: Provide the record keeping and reporting systems necessary to
assure proper maintenance and repair of fire department buildings, facilities,
apparatuses and equipment; provide record keeping and reporting systems for all
fire, fire inspection, emergency medical services, hazardous materials, and
rescue services calls. (Ord. 5641, 5-2-2022)
1-6B-3: EXTRATERRITORIAL ASSISTANCE:
   A.   The fire department of the city is hereby authorized to answer calls
for firefighting or other emergency assistance outside the limits of the city,
but within the county, at the discretion of the chief of the fire department or
a duly authorized designee acting if the fire chief is absent.
   B.   The fire department of the city is further authorized to respond to
calls for firefighting or other emergency assistance outside the limits of the
city, but within the state, when requested by the mayor or the chief of the
fire department of any city or town having an organized fire department, at the
discretion of the fire chief of the city fire department, or a duly authorized
assistant acting during the absence of the chief of the fire department.
   C.   When the firefighters or equipment of the city are engaged in rendering
assistance pursuant to this subsection, they shall be considered to be within
their jurisdiction, and the city shall have the same governmental immunity when
responding to such calls as when operating within the city. (Ord. 5641, 5-2-
2022)
1-6B-4: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED; MEMBERS:
   A.   Composition of Department: There is hereby created and established a
fire department in and for the city, consisting of:
      1.   One (1) fire chief, who shall be appointed pursuant to section
1-6B-1 of this chapter; and
      2.   Three (3) or more battalion chiefs; and
      3.   One (1) fire marshal; and
      4.   One (1) medical supervisor; and
      5.   Three (3) or more medical officers; and
      6.   One (1) or more fire lieutenant inspector/investigation; and
      7.   One (1) or more training officer; and
      8.   Three (3) or more fire captains; and
      9.   Twenty one (21) or more fire lieutenants; and
      10.   Twenty one (21) or more fire engineers; and
      11.   Fifty eight (58) or more fire fighters/paramedics and civilian
staff. (Ord. 5641, 5-2-2022)
ARTICLE C. ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-6C-1: Department Created
1-6C-2: Departmental Powers And Duties
1-6C-3: City Engineer
1-6C-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
The engineering department is hereby created. (Ord. 4003, 2-7-1994)
1-6C-2: DEPARTMENTAL POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the engineering department to provide a full
range of professional engineering services for all city departments and public
projects.
   B.   The department shall have the power to design, inspect, survey and map
all city infrastructures. (Ord. 4003, 2-7-1994)
1-6C-3: CITY ENGINEER:
   A.   Appointment: A city engineer shall be appointed by the mayor and
subject to the approval of the city council and shall be directly responsible
to the mayor. Such appointment shall be in accordance with all city policies
and procedures regarding recruitment, selection and appointment of employees.
   B.   Qualifications: The person appointed to the office of city engineer
shall be a licensed professional civil engineer by the state and fully
qualified to practice within the state. One hundred eighty (180) days shall be
provided from the date of appointment to qualify as provided by law.
   C.   Absence Of City Engineer: Whenever the city engineer shall be out of
the city, or unable to act on account of sickness or any other reason
(including those periods of time when the mayor has not appointed a city
engineer), the city engineer or mayor shall appoint a designee who is qualified
to exercise all the powers and duties of the city engineer.
   D.   Management, Supervision And Duties: The city engineer shall supervise,
direct and manage the engineering department. The city engineer's duties shall
be as follows:
      1.   To promulgate orders, rules and regulations for the conduct and
guidance of the members of the engineering department within the parameters of
city policy;
      2.   To make an annual report of the activities of the department to the
mayor;
      3.   To assign the personnel of the engineering department as deemed
necessary to carry out the functions of the engineering department, and to
prescribe rules and regulations for the conduct and management of the
department consistent with the city's policies;
      4.   To peremptorily suspend or discharge any subordinate under his
direction for neglect of duty, disobedience of orders, misconduct or failure to
properly perform the subordinate's duties in accordance with law and city
policy, or other appropriate just cause;
      5.   To perform or cause to be performed any other duties as directed by
the mayor;
      6.   To be in full charge of all public improvements ordered by the city
council and shall prepare estimates of costs, plans and specifications and
present said information to the city council for approval. The city engineer
shall supervise the construction of such improvements in accordance with the
plans and specifications, and upon completion, prepare a final report for the
city council giving in detail the itemized final costs and other pertinent
facts of such improvements;
      7.   To make all necessary surveys of streets, alleys, avenues, public
squares and other surveys when required by the city council, showing the lines,
dimensions, names of streets, lots and blocks and other pertinent facts;
      8.   To take the necessary levels and measurements of all streets, alleys
or avenues where the same has not already been done for the purpose of
establishing street grades. The city engineer shall prepare the necessary
profiles and drawings showing the existing surface and the grades proposed and
submit the proposed grades to the city council for approval and proper
establishment of the grades by ordinance;
      9.   To create a system so that notes of all surveys, levels, grades and
other field work are kept in field notebooks. The notebooks shall be numbered
in regular order and the notes entered in them in a manner which assures the
work can be readily made out, and shall show in which part of the city the work
has been done, giving the name of the street, number of the lot and block and
exact location of lines or grades or whatever else pertains to the field work,
that they may be clearly located on the ground. All calculations relating to
the notes and surveys shall appear on the pages of the field books;
      10.   To require that benchmarks are to be placed upon some solid and
secure point readily reached from the adjoining streets which identify the
levels and grades. These reference marks shall preserve the survey of the
streets, blocks and lots, in a clear description made in field books;
      11.   To maintain official city maps and keep the same in a correct and
up-to-date fashion showing new additions, streets, alleys, avenues, public
squares, public buildings, bridges, streams and other pertinent objects. The
collection of maps shall include, but not be limited to, the city street, plat,
zoning, thoroughfare, sewer and ward and precinct maps;
      12.   To preserve in the office all field notes, maps, plans, profiles,
papers, books, writings and records, and arrange and index the records in a
manner which allows ready reference. All field books kept by the city engineer
and all necessary blanks for records, maps and plans used by the city engineer
in the discharge of the official duties shall be furnished at the expense of
the city, and such books, records and files shall be the exclusive property of
the city. At the expiration of the term of office or the resignation or removal
of the city engineer, the city engineer shall turn over the same to his
successor, or to some person duly authorized to receive the same for the city;
      13.   To carefully enter all construction data of all public improvements
into the permanent office records. Such records shall include the location of
extension of sewer lines, streets and other public improvements;
      14.   To review all proposed subdivisions submitted for approval to the
city planning, programming and zoning commission and the city council and shall
examine such subdivisions carefully as to their compliance with good
engineering practices and to the subdivision regulations. The city engineer
shall inform the commission and the city council in writing as to the findings
and compliance with the subdivision regulations;
      15.   To coordinate the design, inspection and construction of road and
street projects with the state, federal and local government authorities and
the respective professional design and inspection consultants and contractors;
      16.   To issue ordinance required permits in public rights of way,
including, but not limited to, sidewalks and driveways, excavations, moving
buildings and oversize and/or overweight loads;
      17.   To administer, inspect and coordinate the improvements to all
public sidewalks through a sidewalk inspection and repair program;
      18.   To review and approve all development plans, except single-family
and duplex, for conformance to city ordinances and policies, including, but not
limited to, drainage, access, parking areas and sidewalks;
      19.   To update, monitor and coordinate the city's pavement management
system;
      20.   To inspect, plan and coordinate maintenance activities, and
administer maintenance contracts for the city's flood control facilities;
      21.   To help direct and coordinate activities during flood emergencies
and other natural disasters;
      22.   To provide to the extent possible engineering, inspection and
drafting services to all other city departments. (Ord. 4003, 2-7-1994)
ARTICLE D. BUILDING INSPECTION, PERMITS AND MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-6D-1: Department Created
1-6D-2: Departmental Powers And Duties
1-6D-3: Management And Supervision
1-6D-4: Designee In Absence Of Building Official/Maintenance Administrator
1-6D-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
The building inspection, permits and maintenance department for the city is
hereby created. (Ord. 4513, 9-17-2001)
1-6D-2: DEPARTMENTAL POWERS AND DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the building inspection, permits and maintenance
department to provide for the inspection of all construction for its compliance
with the state, federal and local regulations; and to write building,
electrical, heating and plumbing permits for all construction projects and to
provide administrative supervision for maintenance on all city owned buildings.
(Ord. 4513, 9-17-2001)
1-6D-3: MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISION:
   A.   Appointment: A building official/maintenance administrator shall be
appointed by the mayor and subject to the approval of the city council and
shall be directly responsible to the mayor. Such appointment shall be in
accordance with all city policies and procedures regarding the recruitment,
selection and appointment of employees.
   B.   Management, Supervision And Duties: The building official/maintenance
administrator shall supervise, direct and manage the building inspection,
permits and maintenance department. The building official/maintenance
administrator's duties shall be as follows:
      1.   To promulgate orders, rules and regulations for the conduct and
guidance of the members of the building inspection, permits and maintenance
department within the parameters of city policy;
      2.   To make an annual report of the activities of the department for
each year, the same to be filed with the mayor;
      3.   To assign the personnel of the building inspection, permits and
maintenance department as deemed necessary to carry out the functions of the
building inspection, permits and maintenance department, and to prescribe rules
and regulations for the conduct and management of the department consistent
with the city's policies;
      4.   To peremptorily suspend or discharge any subordinate under his/her
direction for neglect of duty, disobedience of orders, misconduct or failure to
properly perform the subordinate's duties in accordance with law and
departmental policy or other appropriate just cause;
      5.   To supervise and have jurisdiction over the conduct of the plumbing
inspector, electrical inspector, building inspector and heating inspector of
the city;
      6.   To enforce the uniform building code, uniform plumbing code, uniform
mechanical code and national electrical code in the form adopted by the city
council, as they relate to construction activity within the city;
      7.   To coordinate enforcement activities with the fire department and
other city departments for all construction affected by the housing code, life
safety code and minimum housing quality standards;
      8.   To provide code enforcement of all ordinances related to water
service installations, mobile home removal and setup, sign construction,
building demolition, building condemnation and building moving.
      9.   Provide administration of maintenance on all city owned or operated
buildings.
         a.   Develop a reporting and maintenance system that will outline the
condition and status of all major building systems or components (i.e., roof,
heating and air conditioning).
         b.   Establish and keep on record a five (5) year building
maintenance/capital improvement program with yearly updates.
         c.   Establish and administer the operating maintenance budget for
presentation to city council.
         d.   Provide all administrative oversight for payroll, pay vouchers,
record keeping, employee review and employee discipline as they relate to
maintenance of city buildings.
         e.   Bring before committee and council all documents as they relate
to building maintenance.
         f.   Work with Waterloo leisure service to assist in coordinating
maintenance and repair of swimming pools, bathhouses, pump houses, park
restrooms and golf course buildings.
         g.   Work with the airport director to coordinate maintenance on the
airport terminals and support hangers as it relates to building operation.
(Ord. 4513, 9-17-2001)
1-6D-4: DESIGNEE IN ABSENCE OF BUILDING OFFICIAL/MAINTENANCE ADMINISTRATOR:
Whenever the building official/maintenance administrator shall be out of the
city, or unable to act on account of sickness or any other reason (including
those periods of time when the mayor has not appointed a building official/
maintenance administrator), the building official/maintenance administrator or
the mayor shall appoint a designee who shall have and exercise all the powers
and duties of the building official/maintenance administrator. (Ord. 4513, 9-
17-2001)
ARTICLE E. PLANNING AND TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-6E-1: Department Created
1-6E-2: Departmental Powers And Duties
1-6E-3: City Planner
1-6E-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
The planning and transportation department for the city is hereby created.
(Ord. 4003, 2-7-1994)
1-6E-2: DEPARTMENTAL POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the planning and transportation department to
provide a full range of professional planning services for all city
departments, public projects and citizens of Waterloo.
   B.   The department shall have the power to coordinate all long-range plans
developed by any public entity in Waterloo. (Ord. 4003, 2-7-1994)
1-6E-3: CITY PLANNER:
   A.   Appointment: A city planner shall be appointed by the mayor and subject
to the approval of the city council and shall be directly responsible to the
mayor. Such appointment shall be in accordance with all city policies and
procedures regarding recruitment, selection and appointment of employees.
   B.   Absence Of City Planner: Whenever the city planner shall be out of the
city, or unable to act on account of sickness or any other reason (including
those periods of time when the mayor has not appointed a city planner), the
city planner or the mayor shall appoint a designee who shall have and exercise
all the powers and duties of the city planner.
   C.   Management, Supervision And Duties: The city planner shall supervise,
direct and manage the planning and transportation department. The city
planner's duties shall be as follows:
      1.   To promulgate orders, rules and regulations for the conduct and
guidance of the members of the planning and transportation department within
the parameters of city policy;
      2.   To make an annual report of the activities of the department for
each year, the same to be filed with the mayor;
      3.   To assign the personnel of the planning and transportation
department as deemed necessary to carry out the functions of the planning and
transportation department, and to prescribe rules and regulations for the
conduct and management of the department consistent with the city's policies;
      4.   To peremptorily suspend or discharge any subordinate under his
direction for neglect of duty, disobedience of orders, misconduct or failure to
properly perform the subordinate's duties in accordance with law and
departmental policy, or for appropriate just cause;
      5.   To perform or cause to be performed any other duties as directed by
the mayor;
      6.   To supervise and coordinate development of the community's
comprehensive plan, subdivision and zoning ordinances, including the necessary
research, analysis, plan preparation, design, program development and writing
and editing of reports;
      7.   To supervise and coordinate analysis of the city's physical and
socioeconomic characteristics; and direct land use, population and economic
forecasts;
      8.   To act as technical advisor on planning and development matters to
the mayor, city council, planning, programming and zoning commission, and
appear, either in person or by agent, before the city council and commission to
report or advise on major planning and community development projects,
significant economic, housing, land use and population study findings, and new
planning and development techniques being utilized in other communities;
      9.   To work with all city departments in matters relating to planning
and community development programs;
      10.   To prepare and administer the department's work program and budget
after consultation with the planning, programming and zoning commission, assign
staff, determine schedules and review progress on the work program;
      11.   To review all public projects undertaken by city departments,
special districts, the county and other governmental agencies to ensure they
are compatible with city plans;
      12.   To aid the planning, programming and zoning commission and city
council in the development of the capital improvements program and other long-
term financial plans;
      13.   To prepare educational and informational materials; consult with
developers, public officials and citizens on planning and development matters;
and coordinate and review work performed by professional consulting firms
retained for planning and development studies;
      14.   To supervise and have jurisdiction over the conduct of the zoning
administration and the enforcement of all zoning regulations enacted by the
city;
      15.   To coordinate metropolitan planning efforts related to
transportation, economic development and other related activities with all
other affected entities;
      16.   To supervise, coordinate and review work performed by professional
consulting firms for planning and development studies;
      17.   To supervise, coordinate and review the traffic planning and
engineering activities of the city;
      18.   To provide staff services and coordinate the activities of the
Waterloo redevelopment authority and for any and all downtown development and
redevelopment efforts;
      19.   To develop, monitor and coordinate the city's information and data
network;
      20.   The planning and transportation department will provide staff
support to the planning, programming and zoning commission 1 . (Ord. 4003, 2-7-
1994)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  2-1-7 of this code.
ARTICLE F. DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY SERVICES
SECTION:
1-6F-1: Department Created
1-6F-2: Departmental Powers And Duties
1-6F-3: Director Of Safety Services
1-6F-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
The department of safety services for the city of Waterloo is hereby created.
(Ord. 5024, 1-10-2011)
1-6F-2: DEPARTMENTAL POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the department of safety services to oversee
the police department and fire department of the city of Waterloo.
   B.   The department shall have the power to perform any duty currently
assigned to the fire department or police department by this code, which is not
required by the Iowa Code to be exclusively performed by the police chief or
fire chief. (Ord. 5024, 1-10-2011)
1-6F-3: DIRECTOR OF SAFETY SERVICES:
   A.   Appointment: A director of safety services shall be appointed by the
mayor and subject to the approval of the city council and shall be directly
responsible to the mayor. Such appointment shall be in accordance with all city
policies and procedures regarding recruitment, selection and appointment of
employees.
   B.   Absence Of Director Of Safety Services: Whenever the director of safety
services shall be out of the city, or unable to act on account of sickness or
any other reason (including those periods of time when the mayor has not
appointed a director of safety services), the director of safety services or
the mayor shall appoint a designee who shall have and exercise all the powers
and duties of the director of safety services.
   C.   Management, Supervision And Duties: The director of safety services
shall supervise, direct, and manage the department of safety services. The
director of safety services shall:
      1.   a. Subject to subsection C1d of this section, appoint an assistant
director of safety services-police to manage the operations of the police
department. Subject to subsection E of this section, said assistant director
may, if so appointed, also be the chief of police for purposes of Iowa Code
section 400.13 and any other provision of the Iowa Code assigning duties
exclusively to the police chief;
         b.   Subject to subsection C1d of this section, appoint an assistant
director of safety services-fire to manage the operations of the fire
department. Subject to subsection E of this section, said assistant director
may, if so appointed, also be the fire chief for purposes of Iowa Code section
400.13 and any other provision of the Iowa Code assigning duties exclusively to
the fire chief;
         c.   In making selections for the assistant director positions
described above, the director of safety services must choose candidates from
the civil service eligible lists as required by Iowa Code section 400.13;
         d.   In the event that the director of safety services is also
appointed police chief or fire chief pursuant to subsection E of this section,
the director of safety services shall not be required to appoint an assistant
director of the department for which he or she serves as chief. If the director
does choose to appoint an assistant director, then the director shall be the
only chief in that department and the assistant director of such department
shall not be appointed as chief nor shall his or her duties include the duties
of chief, except as such duties may lawfully be delegated by order of the
director of safety services.
      2.   Supervise and direct the activities and operations of the assistant
director of safety services-police and the assistant director of safety
services-fire.
      3.   Provided the director of safety services is also appointed either
police chief or fire chief pursuant to subsection E of this section, take any
action or perform any duty currently assigned that position under this code and
the code of Iowa.
   D.   Limitation On Authority: The director of safety services, if not
serving as chief of a department, shall have no authority to take any action
exclusively delegated by the Iowa Code to the positions of police chief or fire
chief or reassign any such duties to the position of director of safety
services. Such actions include, but are not limited to, the duties established
by section
1-6A-3 of this chapter to the extent they are required by chapter 80D of the
Iowa Code, section
4-3C-4 of this code to the extent they are required by Iowa Code section
455B.386, and section
1-6B-2 of this chapter to the extent they are required by Iowa Code sections
100.2, 102.2, and 102.3.
   E.   Appointment Of Director To Chief Position: In lieu of the director of
safety services appointing the assistant directors of safety services as either
police chief or fire chief, the mayor, with approval of the city council, may
appoint the director of safety services to the office of police chief or fire
chief at the same time that he or she holds the position of director of safety
services, provided the individual is otherwise qualified to hold such office
under the Iowa Code, but the director of safety services may not be both police
chief and fire chief at the same time.
   F.   Qualifications: The director of safety services must be appointed from
the chief's civil service eligible lists provided for in Iowa Code section
400.13. (Ord. 5024, 1-10-2011)
CHAPTER 7
MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Nomination Procedures Adopted
1-7-2: Wards
1-7-3: Precincts
1-7-1: NOMINATION PROCEDURES ADOPTED:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to designate the methods by
which candidates for elective municipal offices in the city shall be nominated.
(Ord. 2768, 9-22-1975)
   B.   Providing For Runoff Elections: For the 2003 municipal election and in
subsequent municipal elections within the city of Waterloo, Iowa, city
elections shall be conducted as provided in Iowa Code (2001) chapter 376, and
any amendments to it. The city of Waterloo, Iowa, does hereby elect to hold a
runoff election when a position for an office within said city is unfilled
because of a failure of a sufficient number of candidates to receive a majority
vote in a regular city election, all as provided in Iowa Code, chapter 376.
(Ord. 4582, 10-14-2002)
1-7-2: WARDS:
That the territory embraced within the city limits of the City of Waterloo,
Iowa, be divided into five (5) wards, to be called the First, Second, Third,
Fourth and Fifth Wards, the boundaries of said wards are hereby established and
defined and set out in Sections 3 thru 7 of this ordinance.
First Ward. The First Ward shall be all the territory within the city limits of
the City of Waterloo, Iowa, hereinafter described as follows:
Beginning at the point of intersection of the Westerly city limit line and the
centerline of Rainbow Drive, thence Southeasterly along the centerline of
Rainbow Drive to the centerline of Greenhill Road, thence Southerly along the
centerline of Greenhill Road to the centerline of University Avenue, thence
Southeasterly along the centerline of University Avenue to the Easterly right-
of-way line of Ansborough Avenue, thence South along the Easterly right-of-way
line of Ansborough Avenue to the centerline of Black Hawk Creek, thence
Easterly and Northeasterly along the centerline of Black Hawk Creek to the
centerline of Fletcher Avenue, thence South along the centerline of Fletcher
Avenue to the centerline of Summit Avenue extended Westerly, thence East along
the extended centerline of Summit Avenue and the centerline of Summit Avenue to
the centerline of Chicago Street, thence North along the centerline of Chicago
Street to the North limit of Chicago Street, thence Southeasterly in a straight
line to the North limit of the centerline of Moir Street, thence Southeasterly
in a straight line to the North limit of the centerline of Marsh Street, thence
South along the centerline of Marsh Street to the Westerly extension of the
centerline of Sherwood Court, thence East along the Westerly extension of the
centerline of Sherwood Court and the centerline of Sherwood Court to the
centerline of Sullivan Avenue, thence North and Northeasterly along the
centerline of Sullivan Avenue to the centerline of Elmwood Street, thence East
along the centerline of Elmwood Street to the centerline of Western Avenue,
thence Northwesterly along the centerline of Western Avenue to the centerline
of West Mullan Avenue, thence Easterly along the centerline of West Mullan
Avenue to the centerline of Locust Street, thence Southeasterly along the
centerline of Locust Street to the centerline of West 4th Street, thence
Southwesterly along the centerline of West 4th Street to the Easterly right-of-
way line of Ansborough Avenue, thence South along the Easterly right-of-way
line of Ansborough Avenue to the South city limit line, thence West and
continuing in a clockwise direction along the city limit line to the point of
beginning.
Second Ward. The Second Ward shall be all the territory within the city limits
of the City of Waterloo, Iowa, hereinafter described as follows:
Beginning at the point of intersection of the Easterly right-of-way line of
Ansborough Avenue and the centerline of Ridgemont Road, thence East along the
centerline of Ridgemont Road to the centerline of Loralin Drive, thence North
along the centerline of Loralin Drive to the centerline of Rachael Street,
thence Easterly along the centerline of Rachael Street to the centerline of
South Hill Drive, thence South along the centerline of South Hill Drive to the
centerline of Rachael Street, thence Easterly along the centerline of Rachael
Street to the centerline of Colby Road, thence North along the centerline of
Colby Road to the centerline of West Park Lane, thence Easterly along the
centerline of West Park Lane to the centerline of Kimball Avenue, thence North
along the centerline of Kimball Avenue to the centerline of Ridgeway Avenue,
thence East along the centerline of East Ridgeway Avenue to the centerline of
Edgemont Avenue, thence South along the centerline of Edgemont Avenue to the
centerline of Cataract Avenue, thence Easterly along the centerline of Cataract
Avenue to the centerline of Barton Avenue, thence Southerly along the
centerline of Barton Avenue to the centerline of Alpine Drive, thence
Southeasterly along the centerline of Alpine Drive to the centerline of
Saratoga Drive, thence Northeasterly along the centerline of Saratoga Drive to
the centerline of Rudi Place, thence Southeasterly along the centerline of Rudi
Place to the centerline of West 9th Street, thence Northerly along the
centerline of West 9th Street to the centerline of Mitchell Avenue, thence East
along the centerline of Mitchell Avenue to the centerline of Washington Street
(Interstate 380/Highway 218), thence Southeasterly along the centerline of
Washington Street (Interstate 380/Highway 218) to the centerline of the off-
ramp for West-bound Interstate 380/Highway 20, thence Southeasterly and
Easterly along said off-ramp to the East city limits, thence proceeding first
Southeasterly and then in a clockwise direction along the city limits to the
Easterly right-of-way line of Ansborough Avenue, thence North along the
Easterly right-of-way line of Ansborough Avenue to the point of beginning.
Third Ward. The Third Ward shall be all the territory within the city limits of
the City of Waterloo, Iowa, hereinafter described as follows:
Beginning at the point of intersection of the centerline of Leversee Road (the
West city limit line) and the centerline of West Dunkerton Road (the North city
limit line), thence East and continuing in a clockwise direction along the
Northerly city limit line to the centerline of Highway 63 (Logan Avenue),
thence South along the centerline of Highway 63 (Logan Avenue) to the
centerline of West Parker Street, thence Southeasterly along the centerline of
Highway 63 (East Mullan Avenue) to the centerline of the right-in/right-out
connecting Logan Avenue and Highway 63 (East Mullan Avenue) (and lying between
West Parker Street and Kern Street), thence Southwesterly along the centerline
of said right-in/right-out to the centerline of Logan Avenue, thence South
along the centerline of Logan Avenue to the centerline of Conger Street, thence
Southwesterly along the centerline of Conger Street to the centerline of the
former spur track of the Chicago Central and Pacific Railway Company right-of-
way, thence Southeasterly and Southwesterly following the centerline of said
spur track to the centerline of Lafayette Street, thence Northwesterly along
the centerline of Lafayette Street 254 feet, thence Southwesterly to the Cedar
River at the Virden Creek outlet, thence Southeasterly along the Cedar River to
the centerline of the Union Pacific Railroad right-of-way, thence Southwesterly
along the centerline of the Union Pacific Railroad right-of-way to the
centerline of Jefferson Street, thence Northwesterly along the centerline of
Jefferson Street to the centerline of West 6th Street, thence Southwesterly
along the centerline of West 6th Street to the centerline of current Southbound
Washington Street (Highway 218), thence Northwesterly along the centerline of
Southbound Washington Street (Highway 218) to the centerline of West 4th
Street, thence Southwesterly along the centerline of West 4th Street to the
centerline of Locust Street, thence Northwesterly along the centerline of
Locust Street to the centerline of West Mullan Avenue, thence Westerly along
the centerline of West Mullan Avenue to the centerline of Western Avenue,
thence Southeasterly along the centerline of Western Avenue to the centerline
of Elmwood Street, thence West along the centerline of Elmwood Street to the
centerline of Sullivan Avenue, thence South and Southwesterly along the
centerline of Sullivan Avenue to the centerline of Sherwood Court, thence West
along the centerline of Sherwood Court and the Westerly extension of the
centerline of Sherwood Court to the centerline of Marsh Street, thence North
along the centerline of Marsh Street to the North limit of Marsh Street, thence
Northwesterly in a straight line to the North limit of the centerline of Moir
Street, thence Northwesterly in a straight line to the North limit of the
centerline of Chicago Street, thence South along the centerline of Chicago
Street to the centerline of Summit Avenue, thence West along the centerline of
Summit Avenue and a Westerly extension of the centerline of Summit Avenue to
the centerline of Fletcher Avenue, thence North along the centerline of
Fletcher Avenue to the centerline of Black Hawk Creek, thence Westerly and
Southwesterly along the centerline of Black Hawk Creek to the Easterly right-
of-way line of Ansborough Avenue, thence North along the Easterly right-of-way
line of Ansborough Avenue to the centerline of University Avenue, thence
Northwesterly along the centerline of University Avenue to the centerline of
Greenhill Road, thence Northerly along the centerline of Greenhill Road to the
centerline of Rainbow Drive, thence Northwesterly along the centerline of
Rainbow Drive to the West city limit line, thence Northerly and continuing in a
clockwise direction along the city limit line to the point of beginning.
Fourth Ward. The Fourth Ward shall be all the territory within the city limits
of the City of Waterloo, Iowa, hereinafter described as follows:
Beginning at the point of intersection of the centerline of Highway 63 (Logan
Avenue) and the North city limit line, thence East and continuing in a
clockwise direction along the city limit line to its intersection with the
centerline of the off-ramp for West-bound Interstate 380/Highway 20, thence
Westerly and Northwesterly along said off-ramp to the centerline of Washington
Street (Interstate 380/Highway 218), thence Northwesterly along the centerline
of Washington Street (Interstate 380/Highway 218) to the centerline of Mitchell
Avenue, thence West along the centerline of Mitchell Avenue to the centerline
of Ohio Street, thence North along the centerline of Ohio Street to the
centerline of Byron Avenue, thence West along the centerline of Byron Avenue to
the centerline of Ohio Street, thence North along the centerline of Ohio Street
to the centerline of Southbound Washington Street (Highway 218), thence
Northwesterly along the centerline of Southbound Washington Street (Highway
218) to the centerline of Williston Avenue, thence Easterly along the
centerline of Williston Avenue to the centerline of West 18th Street, thence
Northeasterly along the centerline of West 18th Street to the Cedar River,
thence Northwesterly along the Cedar River to the point of the Virden Creek
outlet, thence Northeast to a point on the centerline of Lafayette Street that
is 254 feet Northwest of the centerline of the former spur track of the Chicago
Central and pacific right-of-way (now Utica Street), thence Southeast along the
centerline of Lafayette Street to the centerline of said former spur track (now
Utica Street), thence Northeasterly and Northwesterly along the centerline of
said former spur track to the centerline of Conger Street, thence Easterly
along the centerline of Conger Street to the centerline of Logan Avenue, thence
North along the centerline of Logan Avenue to the centerline of the right-in/
right-out connecting Logan Avenue and Highway 63 (East Mullan Avenue)(and lying
between West Parker Street and Kern Street), thence Northeasterly along the
centerline of said right-in/right-out to the centerline of Highway 63 (East
Mullan Avenue), thence Northwesterly along the centerline of Highway 63 (East
Mullan Avenue) to the centerline of West Parker Street, thence North along the
centerline of Highway 63 (Logan Avenue) to the North city limit line and the
point of beginning.
Fifth Ward. The Fifth Ward shall be all the territory within the city limits of
the City of Waterloo, Iowa, hereinafter described as follows:
Beginning at the point of intersection of the centerline of West 18th Street
and the Cedar River, thence Southwesterly along the centerline of West 18th
Street to the centerline of Williston Avenue, thence Westerly along the
centerline of Williston Avenue to the centerline of Southbound Washington
Street (Highway 218), thence Southeasterly along the centerline of Southbound
Washington Street (Highway 218) to the centerline of Ohio Street, thence South
along the centerline of Ohio Street to the centerline of Byron Avenue, thence
East along the centerline of Byron Avenue to the centerline of Ohio Street,
thence South along the centerline of Ohio Street to the centerline of Mitchell
Avenue, thence West along the centerline of Mitchell Avenue to the centerline
of West 9th Street, thence South along the centerline of West 9th Street to the
centerline of Rudi Place, thence Northwesterly along the centerline of Rudi
Place to the centerline of Saratoga Drive, thence Southwesterly along the
centerline of Saratoga Drive to the centerline of Alpine Drive, thence
Northwesterly along the centerline of Alpine Drive to the centerline of Barton
Avenue, thence Northerly along the centerline of Barton Avenue to the
centerline of Cataract Avenue, thence Westerly along the centerline of Cataract
Avenue to the centerline of Edgemont Avenue, thence North along the centerline
of Edgemont Avenue to the centerline of East Ridgeway Avenue, thence West along
the centerline of East Ridgeway Avenue to the centerline of Kimball Avenue,
thence South along the centerline of Kimball Avenue to the centerline of West
Park Lane, thence Westerly along the centerline of West Park Lane to the
centerline of Colby Road, thence South along the centerline of Colby Road to
the centerline of Rachael Street, thence Westerly along the centerline of
Rachael Street to the centerline of South Hill Drive, thence North along the
centerline of South Hill Drive to the centerline of Rachael Street, thence
Westerly along the centerline of Rachael Street to the centerline of Loralin
Drive, thence South along the centerline of Loralin Drive to the centerline of
Ridgemont Road, thence West along the centerline of Ridgemont Road to the
Easterly right-of-way line of Ansborough Avenue, thence North along the
Easterly right-of-way line of Ansborough Avenue to the centerline of West 4th
Street, thence Northeasterly along the centerline of West 4th Street to the
centerline of Southbound Washington Street (Highway 218), thence Southeasterly
along the centerline of Southbound Washington Street (Highway 218) to the
centerline of West 6th Street, thence Northeasterly along the centerline of
West 6th Street to the centerline of Jefferson Street, thence Southeasterly
along the centerline of Jefferson Street to the centerline of the Union Pacific
Railroad, thence Northeasterly along the centerline of the Union Pacific
Railroad to the Cedar River, thence Southeasterly along the Cedar River to the
point of beginning. (Ord. 5627, 12-20-2021)
1-7-3: PRECINCTS:
The territory embraced within the various wards within the city limits of the
City of Waterloo, Iowa, shall be divided into precincts to be known as the 1st
precinct of the 1st Ward, the 2nd precinct of the 1st Ward, the 3rd precinct of
the 1st Ward, the 4th precinct of the 1st Ward, the 5th precinct of the 1st
Ward and the 6th precinct of the 1st Ward; and the 1st precinct of the 2nd
Ward, the 2nd precinct of the 2nd Ward, the 3rd precinct of the 2nd Ward, the
4th precinct of the 2nd Ward, the 5th precinct of the 2nd Ward and the 6th
precinct of the 2nd Ward; and the 1st precinct of the 3rd Ward, the 2nd
precinct of the 3rd Ward, the 3rd precinct of the 3rd Ward, the 4th precinct of
the 3rd Ward, the 5th precinct of the 3rd Ward and the 6th precinct of the 3rd
Ward; and the 1st precinct of the 4th Ward, the 2nd precinct of the 4th Ward,
the 3rd precinct of the 4th Ward, the 4th precinct of the 4th Ward, the 5th
precinct of the 4th Ward and the 6th precinct of the 4th Ward; and the 1st
precinct of the 5th Ward, the 2nd precinct of the 5th Ward, the 3rd precinct of
the 5th Ward, the 4th precinct of the 5th Ward, the 5th precinct of the 5th
Ward and the 6th precinct of the 5th Ward; the boundaries of said precincts are
hereby established and defined and set out in below.
1st Of The First. The 1st precinct of the 1st Ward shall embrace the territory
within the city limits of the City of Waterloo, Iowa, described as follows:
Beginning at the point of intersection of the Westerly city limit line and the
centerline of Rainbow Drive, thence Southeasterly along the centerline of
Rainbow Drive to the centerline of Greenhill Road, thence Southerly along the
centerline of Greenhill Road to the centerline of University Avenue, thence
Northwesterly along the centerline of University Avenue to the West city limit
line, thence North along the West city limit line to the point of beginning.
2nd Of The First. The 2nd precinct of the 1st Ward shall embrace the territory
within the city limits of the City of Waterloo, Iowa, described as follows:
Beginning at the point of intersection of the West city limits and the
centerline of University Avenue, thence Southeasterly along the centerline of
University Avenue to the centerline of Falls Avenue, thence Southwesterly along
the centerline of Falls Avenue to the centerline of Alabar Avenue, thence
Westerly along the centerline of Alabar Avenue to the centerline of Linbud
Lane, thence South along the centerline of Linbud Lane to the centerline of
Sager Avenue, thence East along the centerline of Sager Avenue to the
centerline of Doreen Avenue, thence South along the centerline of Doreen Avenue
to the centerline of Downing Avenue, thence West along the centerline of
Downing Avenue to the centerline of Wren Road, thence South along the
centerline of Wren Road to the centerline of Huntington Road, thence West along
the centerline of Huntington Road to the West city limits, thence North along
the West city limit line to the point of beginning.
3rd Of The First. The 3rd precinct of the 1st Ward shall embrace the territory
within the city limits of the City of Waterloo, Iowa, described as follows:
Beginning at the point where the centerline of Fletcher Avenue intersects the
Westerly extension of the centerline of Summit Avenue, thence East along the
centerline of extended Summit Avenue and the centerline of Summit Avenue to the
centerline of Chicago Street, thence North along the centerline of Chicago
Street to the North limit of Chicago Street, thence Southeasterly in a straight
line to the North limit of the centerline of Moir Street, thence Southeasterly
in a straight line to the North limit of the centerline of Marsh Street, thence
South along the centerline of Marsh Street to the Westerly extension of the
centerline of Sherwood Court, thence East along the Westerly extension of the
centerline of Sherwood Court and the centerline of Sherwood Court to the
centerline of Sullivan Avenue, thence North and Northeasterly along the
centerline of Sullivan Avenue to the centerline of Elmwood Street, thence East
along the centerline of Elmwood Street to the centerline of Western Avenue,
thence Northwesterly along the centerline of Western Avenue to the centerline
of West Mullan Avenue, thence Easterly along the centerline of West Mullan
Avenue to the centerline of Locust Street, thence Southeasterly along the
centerline of Locust Street to the centerline of W. 4th Street, thence
Southwesterly along the centerline of W. 4th Street to the centerline of
Campbell Avenue, thence West along the Centerline of Campbell Avenue to the
centerline of Fletcher Avenue, thence North along the centerline of Fletcher
Avenue to the point of beginning.
4th Of The First. The 4th precinct of the 1st Ward shall embrace the territory
within the city limits of the City of Waterloo, Iowa, described as follows:
Beginning at a point where the West city limit line intersects the centerline
of Huntington Road, thence East along the centerline of Huntington Road to the
centerline of Wren Road, thence North along the centerline of Wren Road to the
centerline of Downing Avenue, thence East along the centerline of Downing
Avenue to the centerline of Doreen Avenue, thence North along the centerline of
Doreen Avenue to the centerline of Sager Avenue, thence West along the
centerline of Sager Avenue to the centerline of Linbud Lane, thence North along
the centerline of Linbud Lane to the centerline of Alabar Avenue, thence
Easterly along the centerline of Alabar Avenue to the centerline of Falls
Avenue, thence Northeasterly along the centerline of Falls Avenue to the
centerline of University Avenue, thence Southeasterly along the centerline of
University Avenue to the Easterly right-of-way line of Ansborough Avenue,
thence South along the Easterly right-of-way line of Ansborough Avenue to the
centerline of Sergeant Road (Highway 63), thence Southwesterly along the
centerline of Sergeant Road (Highway 63) to the centerline of Martin Road,
thence Easterly along the centerline of Martin Road to the Easterly right-of-
way line of Ansborough Avenue, thence South along the Easterly right-of-way
line of Ansborough Avenue to the centerline of Ridgemont Road, thence West
along the centerline of Ridgemont Road to the centerline of Inverness Road,
thence Northwesterly along the centerline of Inverness Road to the centerline
of Doral Drive, thence Northerly along the centerline of Doral Drive to the
centerline of West 4th Street, thence Northeast along the centerline of West
4th Street to the centerline of West Ridgeway Avenue, thence West along the
centerline of West Ridgeway Avenue to the centerline of Black Hawk Creek,
thence Northerly along the centerline of Black Hawk Creek to the city limit
line, thence East and North following the city limits to the point of
beginning.
5th Of The First. The 5th precinct of the 1st Ward shall embrace the territory
within the city limits of the City of Waterloo, Iowa, described as follows:
Beginning at the point of intersection of the centerline of Martin Road and the
centerline of Sergeant Road (Highway 63), thence Northeasterly along the
centerline of Sergeant Road (Highway 63) to the Easterly right-of-way line of
Ansborough Avenue, thence North along the Easterly right-of-way line of
Ansborough Avenue to the centerline of Black Hawk Creek, thence Easterly and
Northeasterly along the centerline of Black Hawk Creek to the centerline of
Fletcher Avenue, thence South along the centerline of Fletcher Avenue to the
centerline of Campbell Avenue, thence East along the centerline of Campbell
Avenue to the centerline of West 4th Street, thence Southwest along the
centerline of West 4th Street to the Easterly right-of-way line of Ansborough
Avenue, thence North along the Easterly right-of-way line of Ansborough Avenue
to the centerline of Martin Road, thence West along the centerline of Martin
Road to the point of beginning.
6th Of The First. The 6th precinct of the 1st Ward shall embrace the territory
within the city limits of the City of Waterloo, Iowa, described as follows:
Beginning at the point of intersection of the centerline of Black Hawk Creek
and the centerline of West Ridgeway Avenue, thence East along the centerline of
West Ridgeway Avenue to the centerline of West 4th Street, thence Southwesterly
along the centerline of West 4th Street to the centerline of Doral Drive,
thence Southerly along the centerline of Doral Drive to the centerline of
Inverness Road, thence Southeasterly and Southerly along the centerline of
Inverness Road to the centerline of Ridgemont Road, thence East along the
centerline of Ridgemont Road to the Easterly right-of-way line of Ansborough
Avenue, thence South along the Easterly right-of-way line of Ansborough Avenue
to the South city limit line, thence West along the South city limit line and
continuing in a clockwise direction along the city line to a point where the
city limit line intersects the centerline of Black Hawk Creek, thence Southerly
along the centerline of Black Hawk Creek to the point of beginning.
1st Of The Second. The 1st precinct of the 2nd Ward shall embrace the territory
within the city limits of the City of Waterloo, Iowa, described as follows:
Beginning at the point of intersection of the Easterly right-of-way line of
Ansborough Avenue and the centerline of Ridgemont Road, thence East along the
centerline of Ridgemont Road to the centerline of Loralin Drive, thence North
along the centerline of Loralin Drive to the centerline of Rachael Street,
thence Easterly along the centerline of Rachael Street to the centerline of
South Hill Drive, thence South along the centerline of South Hill Drive to the
centerline of Rachael Street, thence East along the centerline of Rachael
Street to the centerline of Colby Road, thence North along the centerline of
Colby Road to the centerline of West Park Lane, thence Easterly and
Southeasterly along the centerline of West Park Lane to the centerline of West
9th Street, thence Southerly along the centerline of West 9th Street and a
Southerly extension of the centerline of West 9th Street to the centerline of
East San Marnan Drive, thence East along the centerline of East San Marnan
Drive to the centerline of Hawkeye Road (Highway 21), thence South along the
centerline of Hawkeye Road (Highway 21) to the centerline of Highway 20, thence
West along the centerline of Highway 20 to the Easterly right-of-way line of
Ansborough Avenue, thence North along the Easterly right-of-way line of
Ansborough Avenue to the point of beginning.
2nd Of The Second. The 2nd precinct of the 2nd Ward shall embrace the territory
within the city limits of the City of Waterloo, Iowa, described as follows:
Beginning at the point of intersection of the centerline of East Ridgeway
Avenue and the centerline of West 9th Street, thence East along the centerline
of East Ridgeway Avenue to the centerline of Hammond Avenue, thence South along
the centerline of Hammond Avenue to the centerline Highway 20, thence West
along the centerline of Highway 20 to the centerline of Hawkeye Road (Highway
21), thence North along the centerline of Hawkeye Road (Highway 21) to the
centerline of East San Marnan Drive, thence West along the centerline of East
San Marnan Drive to the intersection with a Southerly extension of the
centerline of West 9th Street, thence North along said extension of the
centerline of West 9th Street and the centerline of West 9th Street to the
centerline of Park Lane, thence Northwesterly along the centerline of Park Lane
to the centerline of Kimball Avenue, thence North along the centerline of
Kimball Avenue to the centerline of East Ridgeway Avenue, thence East along the
centerline of East Ridgeway Avenue to the centerline of Edgemont Avenue, thence
South along the centerline of Edgemont Avenue to the centerline of Cataract
Avenue, thence Easterly along the centerline of Cataract Avenue to the
centerline of Barton Avenue, thence Southerly along the centerline of Barton
Avenue to the centerline of Alpine Drive, thence Southeasterly along the
centerline of Alpine Drive to the centerline of Saratoga Drive, thence
Northeasterly along the centerline of Saratoga Drive to the centerline of Rudi
Place, thence Southeasterly along the centerline of Rudi Place to the
centerline of West 9th Street, thence Northerly along the centerline of West
9th Street to the point of beginning.
3rd Of The Second. The 3rd precinct of the 2nd Ward shall embrace the territory
within the city limits of the City of Waterloo, Iowa, described as follows:
Beginning at the point of intersection of the centerline of Mitchell Avenue and
the centerline of West 9th Street, thence East along the centerline of Mitchell
Avenue to the centerline of Washington Street (Interstate 380/Highway 218),
thence Southeasterly along the centerline of Washington Street (Interstate 380/
Highway 218) to the centerline of East San Marnan Drive, thence Southwesterly
along the centerline of East San Marnan Drive to the centerline of LaPorte
Road, thence Northwesterly along the centerline of LaPorte Road to the
centerline of East Ridgeway Avenue, thence West along the centerline of East
Ridgeway Avenue to the centerline of West 9th Street, thence North along the
centerline of West 9th Street to the point of beginning.
4th Of The Second. The 4th precinct of the 2nd Ward shall embrace the territory
within the city limits of the City of Waterloo, Iowa, described as follows:
Beginning at the point of intersection of the centerline of Hammond Avenue and
the centerline of East Ridgeway Avenue, thence East along the centerline of
East Ridgeway Avenue to the centerline of LaPorte Road, thence South along the
centerline of LaPorte Road to the centerline of East San Marnan Drive, thence
Northeast along the centerline of East San Marnan Drive to the centerline of
Washington Street (Interstate 380/Highway 218), thence Southeasterly along the
centerline of Washington Street (Interstate 380/Highway 218) to the centerline
of the off-ramp for West-bound Interstate 380/Highway 20, thence Southeasterly
and Easterly along said off-ramp until it intersects with the city limits,
thence proceeding first Southeasterly and then in a clockwise direction along
the city limits to the centerline of East Shaulis Road, thence West along the
centerline of East Shaulis Road to the centerline of Hess Road, thence North
along the centerline of Hess Road (this portion of Hess Road is currently going
through an approval process to re-name it to LaPorte Road) to the centerline of
Highway 20, thence West along the centerline of Highway 20 to the centerline of
Hammond Avenue, thence North along the centerline of Hammond Avenue to the
point of beginning.
5th Of The Second. The 5th precinct of the 2nd Ward shall embrace the territory
within the city limits of the City of Waterloo, Iowa, described as follows:
Beginning at the point of intersection of the centerline of Hess Road and the
centerline of East Shaulis Road, thence Easterly along the centerline of East
Shaulis Road to the East city limit line, thence following the East and South
city limit lines in a clockwise direction to the centerline of Hess Road,
thence North along the centerline of Hess Road to the point of beginning.
6th Of The Second. The 6th precinct of the 2nd Ward shall embrace the territory
within the city limits of the City of Waterloo, Iowa, described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the Easterly right-of-way line of Ansborough
Avenue and the centerline of Highway 20, thence East along the centerline of
Highway 20 to the centerline of Hess Road (this portion of Hess Road is
currently going through an approval process to re-name it to LaPorte Road),
thence South along the centerline of Hess Road (along a portion of Hess Road
proposed to be re-named to LaPorte Road and a portion that will remain Hess
Road) to the South city limits, thence South, West and North following the
South city limit line in a clockwise direction to the Easterly right-of-way
line of Ansborough Avenue, thence North along the Easterly right-of-way line of
Ansborough Avenue to the point of beginning.
1st Of The Third. The 1st precinct of the 3rd Ward shall embrace the territory
within the city limits of the City of Waterloo, Iowa, described as follows:
Beginning at the point of intersection of the centerline of Leversee Road (the
West city limit line) and the centerline of West Dunkerton Road, (the North
city limit line), thence East and continuing in a clockwise direction along the
Northerly city limit line to the centerline of Highway 63 (Logan Avenue),
thence South along the centerline of Highway 63 (Logan Avenue) to the
centerline of West Airline Highway, thence West along the centerline of West
Airline Highway to the centerline of Airport Boulevard, thence South along the
centerline of Airport Boulevard to the centerline of Washington Street (Highway
218), thence Southerly along the centerline of Washington Street (Highway 218)
to the Cedar River, thence Southeasterly along the Cedar River and continuing
Southeasterly along the South channel of the Cedar River (Southwest side of San
Souci Island) to the centerline of West Conger Street, thence Northeasterly
along the centerline of West Conger Street to the North channel of the Cedar
River (Northeast side of San Souci Island), thence Southeasterly along the
North channel of the Cedar River to the centerline of the Canadian National
Railroad, thence Southwesterly along the centerline of the Canadian National
Railroad to the centerline of Washington Street (Highway 218), thence
Northwesterly along the centerline of Washington Street (Highway 218) to the
Southeasterly extension of the centerline of Rainbow Drive as originally
platted, thence Northwesterly along said Southeasterly extension of the
centerline of Rainbow Drive and the centerline of Rainbow Drive to the
centerline of Hanna Boulevard, thence Southerly along the centerline of Hanna
Boulevard to the centerline of Falls Avenue, thence West and Southwest along
the centerline of Falls Avenue to the centerline of University Avenue, thence
Northwesterly along the centerline of University Avenue to the centerline of
Greenhill Road, thence Northerly along the centerline of Greenhill Road to the
centerline of Rainbow Drive, thence Northwesterly along the centerline of
Rainbow Drive to the West city limits, thence Northerly and continuing in a
clockwise direction along the West city limit line to the point of beginning.
2nd Of The Third. The 2nd precinct of the 3rd Ward shall embrace the territory
within the city limits of the City of Waterloo, Iowa, described as follows:
Beginning at the point of intersection of the centerline of West Airline
Highway and the centerline of Airport Boulevard, thence East along the
centerline of West Airline Highway to the centerline of Highway 63 (Logan
Avenue), thence South along the centerline of Highway 63 (Logan Avenue) to the
centerline of West Donald Street, thence West along the centerline of West
Donald Street to the centerline of Cedar Bend Street, thence Southerly along
the centerline of Cedar Bend Street to the centerline of Longfellow Avenue,
thence South along the centerline of Longfellow Avenue to a point where an
Easterly extension of the centerline of Riverside Drive would intersect, thence
Westerly along said Easterly extension of Riverside Drive and Westerly and
Southerly along the centerline of Riverside Drive as presently established to
the centerline of Riehl Street, thence Southwest to the Northerly most point of
the centerline of vacated Riverside Drive located South of Riehl Street, thence
Southeasterly along the centerline of vacated Riverside Drive to the centerline
of Conger Street, thence Southwesterly along the centerline of Conger Street to
the South channel of the Cedar River (Southwest side of San Souci Island),
thence Northwesterly along the South channel of the Cedar River and continuing
Northwesterly along the Cedar River to the centerline of Washington Street
(Highway 218), thence Northerly along the centerline of Washington Street
(Highway 218) to the centerline of Airport Boulevard, thence North along the
centerline of Airport Boulevard to the point of beginning.
3rd Of The Third. The 3rd precinct of the 3rd Ward shall embrace the territory
within the city limits of the City of Waterloo, Iowa, described as follows:
Beginning at the point of intersection of the centerline of Cedar Bend Street
and the centerline of West Donald Street, thence East along the centerline of
West Donald Street to the centerline of Highway 63 (Logan Avenue), thence South
along the centerline of Highway 63 (Logan Avenue) to the centerline of West
Parker Street, thence Southeasterly along the centerline of Highway 63 (East
Mullan Avenue) to the centerline of the right-in/right-out connecting Logan
Avenue and Highway 63 (East Mullan Avenue) (and lying between West Parker
Street and Kern Street), thence Southwesterly along the centerline of said
right-in/right-out to the centerline of Logan Avenue, thence South along the
centerline of Logan Avenue to the centerline of Conger Street, thence Westerly
along the centerline of Conger Street to the centerline of the Canadian
National Railroad, thence Northwesterly along the centerline of the Canadian
National Railroad to the centerline of West Parker Street, thence West along
the centerline of West Parker Street to the centerline of Cedar Bend Street,
thence Northwesterly and Northerly along the centerline of Cedar Bend Street to
the point of beginning.
4th Of The Third. The 4th precinct of the 3rd Ward shall embrace the territory
within the city limits of the City of Waterloo, Iowa, described as follows:
Beginning at the point of intersection of the centerline of Cedar Bend Street
and the centerline of West Parker Street, thence East along the centerline of
West Parker Street to the centerline of the Canadian National Railroad, thence
Southeasterly along the centerline of the Canadian National Railroad to the
centerline of Conger Street, thence Southwest along the centerline of Conger
Street to the centerline of the former spur track of the Chicago Central and
Pacific Railway Company right-of-way, thence Southeasterly and Southwesterly
following the centerline of said spur track to the centerline of Lafayette
Street, thence Northwesterly along the centerline of Lafayette Street 254 feet,
thence Southwesterly to the Cedar River at the Virden Creek outlet, thence
Northwesterly along the Cedar River and continuing Northwesterly along the
North channel of the Cedar River (Northeast side of San Souci Island) to the
centerline of West Conger Street, thence Northeasterly along the centerline of
Conger Street to the centerline of vacated Riverside Drive, thence
Northwesterly along the centerline of vacated Riverside Drive to the Northerly
most point of the centerline of vacated Riverside Drive located South of Riehl
Street, thence Northeast to the centerline of Riehl Street and the centerline
of Riverside Drive as presently established, thence Northerly and Easterly
along the centerline of Riverside Drive and an Easterly extension of the
centerline of Riverside Drive to the centerline of Longfellow Avenue, thence
North along the centerline of Longfellow Avenue to the centerline of West
Parker Street and the point of beginning.
5th Of The Third. The 5th precinct of the 3rd Ward shall embrace the territory
within the city limits of the City of Waterloo, Iowa, described as follows:
Beginning at the point of intersection of the centerline of Rainbow Drive and
the centerline of Hanna Boulevard, thence Southeasterly along the centerline of
Rainbow Drive and a Southeasterly extension of Rainbow Drive as originally
platted to the centerline of Washington Street (Highway 218), thence
Southeasterly along the centerline of Washington Street (Highway 218) to the
centerline of Fletcher Avenue, thence Southerly along the centerline of
Fletcher Avenue to the centerline Black Hawk Creek, thence Westerly and
Southwesterly along the centerline of Black Hawk Creek to the Easterly right-
of-way line of Ansborough Avenue, thence North along the Easterly right-of-way
line of Ansborough Avenue to the centerline of University Avenue, thence
Northwesterly along the centerline of University Avenue to the centerline of
Falls Avenue, thence Northeasterly along the centerline of Falls Avenue to the
centerline of Hanna Boulevard, thence Northerly along the centerline of Hanna
Boulevard to the point of beginning.
6th Of The Third. The 6th precinct of the 3rd Ward shall embrace the territory
within the city limits of the City of Waterloo, Iowa, described as follows:
Beginning at the point of intersection of the centerline of the Canadian
National Railroad and the North channel of the Cedar River (Northeast side of
San Souci Island), thence Southeasterly along the North channel of the Cedar
River and continuing Southeasterly along the Cedar River to the centerline of
the Iowa Northern Railway Company right-of-way, thence Southwesterly along the
centerline of the Iowa Northern Railway Company right-of-way to the centerline
of Jefferson Street, thence Northwesterly along the centerline of Jefferson
Street to the centerline of West 6th Street, thence Southwesterly along the
centerline of West 6th Street to the centerline of Southbound Washington Street
(Highway 218), thence Northwesterly along the centerline of Southbound
Washington Street (Highway 218) to the centerline of West 4th Street, thence
Southwesterly along the centerline of West 4th Street to the centerline of
Locust Street, thence Northwesterly along the centerline of Locust Street to
the centerline of West Mullan Avenue, thence Westerly along the centerline of
West Mullan Avenue to the centerline of Western Avenue, thence Southeasterly
along the centerline of Western Avenue to the centerline of Elmwood Street,
thence Westerly along the centerline of Elmwood Street to the centerline of
Sullivan Avenue, thence South and Southwesterly along the centerline of
Sullivan Avenue to the centerline of Sherwood Court, thence West along the
centerline of Sherwood Court and an extension of the centerline of Sherwood
Court to the centerline of Marsh Street, thence North along the centerline of
Marsh Street to the North limit of Marsh Street, thence Northwesterly in a
straight line to the North limit of the centerline of Moir Street, thence
Northwesterly in a straight line to the Northerly limit of the centerline of
Chicago Street, thence South along the centerline of Chicago Street to the
centerline of Summit Avenue, thence West along the centerline of Summit Avenue
and an extension of the centerline of Summit Avenue to the centerline of
Fletcher Avenue, thence North along the centerline of Fletcher Avenue to the
centerline of Washington Street (Highway 218), thence Northwesterly along the
centerline of Washington Street (Highway 218) to the centerline of the Canadian
National Railroad, thence Northeast along the centerline of the Canadian
National Railroad to the point of beginning.
1st Of The Fourth. The 1st precinct of the 4th Ward shall embrace the territory
within the city limits of the City of Waterloo, Iowa, described as follows:
Beginning at the point of intersection of the centerline of Highway 63 (Logan
Avenue) and the North city limit line, thence East and continuing in a
clockwise direction along the city limit line to the centerline of Martin
Luther King Jr. Drive, thence Westerly along the centerline of Martin Luther
King Jr. Drive to the centerline of Northeast Drive, thence North along the
centerline of Northeast Drive to the centerline of Newell Street, thence West
along the centerline of Newell Street to the centerline of Highway 63 (East
Mullan Avenue), thence West along the centerline of Conger Street to the
centerline of Logan Avenue, thence North along the centerline of Logan Avenue
to the centerline of the right-in/right-out connecting Logan Avenue and Highway
63 (East Mullan Avenue) (and lying between West Parker Street and Kern Street),
thence Northeasterly along the centerline of said right-in/right-out to the
centerline of Highway 63 (East Mullan Avenue), thence Northwesterly along the
centerline of Highway 63 (East Mullan Avenue) to the centerline of West Parker
Street, thence North along the centerline of Highway 63 (Logan Avenue) to the
North city limit line and the point of beginning.
2nd Of The Fourth. The 2nd precinct of the 4th Ward shall embrace the territory
within the city limits of the City of Waterloo, Iowa, described as follows:
Beginning at the point of intersection of the centerline of Newell Street and
the centerline of East 4th Street, thence South along the centerline of East
4th Street to the centerline of Walnut Street, thence Southeasterly along the
centerline of Walnut Street to the centerline of Independence Avenue, thence
East along the centerline of Independence Avenue to the centerline of the
Canadian National Railroad, thence Southeasterly along the centerline of the
Canadian National Railroad to the centerline of Nevada Street, thence South
along the centerline of Nevada Street to the centerline of Franklin Street,
thence West along the centerline of Franklin Street to the centerline of Vinton
Street, thence Southerly along the centerline of Vinton Street (which becomes
West 18th Street at the Cedar River) to the Cedar River, thence Northwesterly
along the Cedar River to the point of the Virden Creek outlet, thence Northeast
to a point on the centerline of Lafayette Street that is 254 feet Northwest of
the centerline of the former spur track of the Chicago Central and pacific
right-of-way (now Utica Street), thence Southeast along the centerline of
Lafayette Street to the centerline of said former spur track (now Utica
Street), thence Northeasterly and Northwesterly along the centerline of said
former spur track to the centerline of Conger Street, thence Easterly along the
centerline of Conger Street to the centerline of East Mullan Avenue, thence
continuing Easterly along the centerline of Newell Street to the point of
beginning.
3rd Of The Fourth. The 3rd precinct of the 4th Ward shall embrace the territory
within the city limits of the City of Waterloo, Iowa, described as follows:
Beginning at the point of intersection of the centerline of East 4th Street and
the centerline of Newell Street, thence Easterly along the centerline of Newell
Street to the centerline of the Canadian National Beltline Railroad, thence
Southeasterly and Southerly along the centerline of the Canadian National
Beltline Railroad to the centerline of Martin Luther King Jr. Drive, thence
Southwesterly along the centerline of Martin Luther King Jr. Drive to the
centerline of Linden Avenue, thence South along the centerline of Linden Avenue
and an extension of the centerline of Linden Avenue to the centerline of
Independence Avenue, thence West along the centerline of Independence Avenue to
the centerline of Walnut Street, thence Northwesterly along the centerline of
Walnut Street to the centerline of East 4th Street, thence North along the
centerline of East 4th Street to the point of beginning.
4th Of The Fourth. The 4th precinct of the 4th Ward shall embrace the territory
within the city limits of the City of Waterloo, Iowa, described as follows:
Beginning at the point of intersection of the Cedar River and the centerline of
Vinton Street (at West 18th Street), thence Northerly along the centerline of
Vinton Street to the centerline of Franklin Street, thence East along the
centerline of Franklin Street to the centerline of Nevada Street, thence
Southeasterly along the centerline of Dubuque Road to the East city limit line,
thence South and continuing in a clockwise direction along the East city limit
line to its intersection with the centerline of the off-ramp for West-bound
Interstate 380/Highway 20, thence Westerly and Northwesterly along said off-
ramp to the centerline of Washington Street (Interstate 380/Highway 218),
thence Northwesterly along the centerline of Washington Street (Interstate 380/
Highway 218) to the centerline of Mitchell Avenue, thence West along the
centerline of Mitchell Avenue to the centerline of Ohio Street, thence North
along the centerline of Ohio Street to the centerline of Byron Avenue, thence
West along the centerline of Byron Avenue to the centerline of Ohio Street,
thence North along the centerline of Ohio Street to the centerline of
Southbound Washington Street (Highway 218), thence Northwesterly along the
centerline of Southbound Washington Street (Highway 218) to the centerline of
Williston Avenue, thence Easterly along the centerline of Williston Avenue to
the centerline of West 18th Street, thence Northeasterly along the centerline
of West 18th Street to the Cedar River and the point of beginning.
5th Of The Fourth. The 5th precinct of the 4th Ward shall embrace the territory
within the city limits of the City of Waterloo, Iowa, described as follows:
Beginning at the point of intersection of the centerline of Newell Street and
the centerline of the Canadian National Beltline Railroad, thence East along
the centerline of Newell Street to the centerline of Northeast Drive, thence
South along the centerline of Northeast Drive to the centerline of Martin
Luther King Jr. Drive, thence Easterly along the centerline of Martin Luther
King Jr. Drive to its intersection with the East city limits, thence South and
continuing in a clockwise direction along the East city limit line to the
centerline of Independence Avenue, thence West along the centerline of
Independence Avenue to the centerline of Idaho Street, thence North along the
centerline of Idaho Street to the centerline of Alta Vista Avenue, thence West
along the centerline of Alta Vista Avenue to the centerline of Steely Street,
thence South along the centerline of Steely Street to the centerline of
Independence Avenue, thence East along the centerline of Independence Avenue to
the centerline of Nevada Street, thence South along the centerline of Nevada
Street to the centerline of the Canadian National Railroad, thence
Northwesterly along the centerline of the Canadian National Railroad to the
centerline of Independence Avenue, thence East along the centerline of
Independence Avenue to the Southerly extension of the centerline of Linden
Avenue, thence North along the Southerly extension of the centerline of Linden
Avenue and the centerline of Linden Avenue to the centerline of Martin Luther
King Jr. Drive, thence Northeasterly along the centerline of Martin Luther King
Jr. Drive to the centerline of the Canadian National Beltline Railroad, thence
Northerly and Northwesterly along the centerline of the Canadian National
Beltline Railroad to the point of beginning.
6th Of The Fourth. The 6th precinct of the 4th Ward shall embrace the territory
within the city limits of the City of Waterloo, Iowa, described as follows:
Beginning at the point of intersection of the centerline of Dubuque Road and
the centerline of Nevada Street, thence North along the centerline of Nevada
Street to the centerline of Independence Avenue, thence West along the
centerline of Independence Avenue to the centerline of Steely Street, thence
North along the centerline of Steely Street to the centerline of Alta Vista
Avenue, thence East along the centerline of Alta Vista Avenue to the centerline
of Idaho Street, thence South along the centerline of Idaho Street to the
centerline of Independence Avenue, thence East along the centerline of
Independence Avenue to its intersection with the East city limits, thence South
and continuing in a clockwise direction along the East city limit line to the
farthest Westerly point on the East city limit line that is also the Northerly
right-of-way line of Dubuque Road, thence South along the East city limit line
to the centerline of Dubuque Road, thence Northwest along the centerline of
Dubuque Road to the point of beginning.
1st Of The Fifth. The 1st precinct of the 5th Ward shall embrace the territory
within the city limits of the City of Waterloo, Iowa, described as follows:
Beginning at the point of intersection of the centerline of West 18th Street
and the Cedar River, thence Southwesterly along the centerline of West 18th
Street to centerline of Williston Avenue, thence Westerly along the centerline
of Williston Avenue to the centerline of West 9th Street, thence North and
Northeasterly along the centerline of West 9th Street to the centerline of
Leavitt Street, thence Northwesterly along the centerline of Leavitt Street to
the centerline of West 7th Street, thence Southwesterly along the centerline of
West 7th Street to the centerline of Allen Street, thence Northwesterly along
the centerline of Allen Street to the centerline of West 4th Street, thence
Northeasterly along the centerline of West 4th Street to the centerline of
Southbound Washington Street (Highway 218), thence Southeasterly along the
centerline of Southbound Washington Street (Highway 218) to the centerline of
West 6th Street, thence Northeasterly along centerline of West 6th Street to
the centerline of Jefferson Street, thence Southeasterly along the centerline
of Jefferson Street to the centerline of the Iowa Northern Railway Company
right-of-way, thence Northeasterly along the centerline of the Iowa Northern
Railway Company right-of-way to the Cedar River, thence Southeasterly along the
Cedar River to the point of beginning.
2nd OF The Fifth. The 2nd precinct of the 5th Ward shall embrace the territory
within the city limits of the City of Waterloo, Iowa, described as follows:
Beginning at the point of intersection of the centerline of Williston Avenue
and the centerline of Southbound Washington Street (Highway 218), thence
Southeasterly along the centerline of Southbound Washington Street (Highway
218) to the centerline of Ohio Street, thence South along the centerline of
Ohio Street to the centerline of Byron Avenue, thence East along the centerline
of Byron Avenue to the centerline of Ohio Street, thence South along the
centerline of Ohio Street to the centerline of Mitchell Avenue, thence West
along the centerline of Mitchell Avenue to the centerline of West 9th Street,
thence Northerly along the centerline of West 9th Street to the centerline of
Williston Avenue, thence East along the centerline of Williston Avenue to the
point of beginning.
3rd Of The Fifth. The 3rd precinct of the 5th Ward shall embrace the territory
within the city limits of the City of Waterloo, Iowa, described as follows:
Beginning at the point of intersection of the centerline of West 4th Street and
the centerline of Allen Street, thence Southeasterly along the centerline of
Allen Street to the centerline of West 7th Street, thence Northeasterly along
the centerline of West 7th Street to the centerline of Leavitt Street, thence
Southeasterly along the centerline of Leavitt Street to the centerline of West
9th Street, thence Southwesterly and Southerly along the centerline of West 9th
Street to the centerline of Mitchell Avenue, thence West along the centerline
of Mitchell Avenue to the centerline of Vermont Street, thence North and
Northwest along the centerline of Vermont Street to the centerline of West 4th
Street, thence Northeasterly along the centerline of West 4th Street to the
point of beginning.
4th Of The Fifth. The 4th precinct of the 5th Ward shall embrace the territory
within the city limits of the City of Waterloo, Iowa, described as follows:
Beginning at the point of intersection of the centerline Mitchell Avenue and
the centerline of West 9th Street, thence Southerly along the centerline of
West 9th Street to the centerline of Rudi Place, thence Northwesterly along the
centerline of Rudi Place to the centerline of Saratoga Drive, thence
Southwesterly along the centerline of Saratoga Drive to the centerline of
Alpine Drive, thence Northwesterly along the centerline of Alpine Drive to the
centerline of Barton Avenue, thence Northerly along the centerline of Barton
Avenue to the centerline of Cataract Avenue, thence Westerly along the
centerline of Cataract Avenue to the centerline of Edgemont Avenue, thence
North along the centerline of Edgemont Avenue to the centerline of East
Ridgeway Avenue, thence West along the centerline of East Ridgeway Avenue to
the centerline of Kimball Avenue, thence North along the centerline of Kimball
Avenue to the centerline of Mitchell Avenue, thence East along the centerline
of Mitchell Avenue to the point of beginning.
5th Of The Fifth. The 5th precinct of the 5th Ward shall embrace the territory
within the city limits of the City of Waterloo, Iowa, described as follows:
Beginning at the point of intersection of the centerline West 4th Street and
the centerline of Vermont Street, thence Southeasterly and South along the
centerline of Vermont Street to the centerline of Mitchell Avenue, thence West
along the centerline of Mitchell Avenue to the centerline of Kimball Avenue,
thence South along the centerline of Kimball Avenue to the centerline of West
Ridgeway Avenue, thence West along the centerline of West Ridgeway Avenue to
the centerline of Sheridan Road, thence Northerly along the centerline of
Sheridan Road to the centerline of West 4th Street, thence Northeasterly along
the centerline of West 4th Street to the point of beginning.
6th Of The Fifth. The 6th precinct of the 5th Ward shall embrace the territory
within the city limits of the City of Waterloo, Iowa, described as follows:
Beginning at the point of intersection of the centerline of West 4th Street and
the centerline of Sheridan Road, thence Southerly along the centerline of
Sheridan Road to the centerline of West Ridgeway Avenue, thence East along the
centerline of West Ridgeway Avenue to the centerline of Kimball Avenue, thence
South along the centerline of Kimball Avenue to the centerline of West Park
Lane, thence Westerly and Southwesterly along the centerline of West Park Lane
to the centerline of Colby Road, thence South along the centerline of Colby
Road to the centerline of Rachael Street, thence West along the centerline of
Rachael Street to the centerline of South Hill Drive, thence North along the
centerline of South Hill Drive to the centerline of Rachael Street, thence West
along the centerline of Rachael Street to the centerline of Loralin Drive,
thence South along the centerline of Loralin Drive to the centerline of
Ridgemont Road, thence West along the centerline of Ridgemont Road to the
Easterly right-of-way line of Ansborough Avenue, thence North along the
Easterly right-of-way line of Ansborough Avenue to the centerline of West 4th
Street, thence Northeasterly along the centerline of West 4th Street to the
point of beginning. (Ord. 5627, 12-20-2021)
CHAPTER 8
MUNICIPAL FINANCES
SECTION:
1-8-1: Deeds And Contracts
1-8-2: Purchases
1-8-3: Claims
1-8-4: General Fund
1-8-5: Property Tax Exemptions
1-8-6: Electronic Records And Signatures
1-8-1: DEEDS AND CONTRACTS:
   A.   Execution Of Deeds Conveying City Property: All deeds and releases for
the conveyance of any real estate belonging to the city shall be made in the
name of the city, as party of the first part, and shall be executed by the
mayor and the city clerk in their official capacity, and they shall affix the
corporate seal of the city thereto; such deed or release shall thereupon be
acknowledged by the mayor and city clerk for and on behalf of the city, which
deed so executed and acknowledged shall be valid and effectual to convey all
rights and release all claims thereby purporting to be conveyed or released.
   B.   Execution Of Contracts:
      1.   All contracts entered into by the city, except such as may be
entered into by ordinance, shall be in writing, delivered to the city clerk,
approved by the city council, and executed by the mayor in his official
capacity as directed by the city council. City council approval of a contract
or agreement shall be endorsed on the contract or agreement by the city clerk,
and attested by the city clerk’s signature. Contracts or agreements entered
into by the city may be executed with an electronic signature, in accordance
with section 1-8-6 of this code and Iowa Code Chapter 554D.
      2.   The city shall not be bound by, or be liable upon, any contract or
agreement except such as shall be entered into and executed in accordance with
the provisions of subsection B1 of this section. (Rev. Ord. 1127, Comp. 1941,
p. D-3; amd. Ord. 5557, 6-1-2020)
1-8-2: PURCHASES:
   A.   All supplies, goods and merchandise used by the city shall be purchased
as provided in subsection B of this section, and in no other manner.
   B.   Whenever it is necessary for the city to purchase supplies for any of
the departments of the city, unless ordered by the city council at a regular or
special session, a written order must be first had and obtained from the city
clerk before the supplies, goods or merchandise can be purchased.
   C.   Any officer or employees of the city or any other person who shall
violate the provisions of this section shall be guilty of an offense, and the
city shall not be liable for any goods purchased other than on such a written
order. (Rev. Ord. 1171, Comp. 1941, p. P-7)
1-8-3: CLAIMS:
All bills and claims against the city shall be itemized, and shall not be
allowed until passed upon by the proper committee, and as by ordinance
provided, except the bills of city officers and others employed by the city and
receiving a compensation fixed by ordinance, resolution or by contract. (Rev.
Ord. 1117, Comp. 1941, p. C-6)
1-8-4: GENERAL FUND:
   A.   The city shall establish and maintain a minimum level of year-end
general fund cash balance of no less than five percent (5%) of the total
general fund revenue budgeted or amended each fiscal year. The city council
shall adopt the annual operating budget each fiscal year in a manner consistent
with the required minimum level of year-end cash balance. Budget deficit
reduction measures shall be taken in the course of each fiscal year should it
be determined that without such measures the general fund cash balance would
fall below the required minimum level of year-end general fund cash balance at
the close of that fiscal year.
   B.   Upon adoption of this section, the mayor and city council shall
implement and exercise the necessary budget controls to enable the city to
comply with this section within the prescribed time allowable stated herein.
The general fund cash balance shall be at the minimum required level of five
percent (5%) of annual general fund revenue no later than June 30, 1996. (Ord.
4012, 4-25-1994)
1-8-5: PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Definitions:
   NEW CONSTRUCTION: New buildings and structures and includes new buildings
and structures which are constructed as additions to existing buildings and
structures. New construction does not include reconstruction of an existing
building or structure which does not constitute complete replacement of an
existing building or structure or refitting of an existing building or
structure, unless the reconstruction of an existing building or structure is
required due to economic obsolescence and the reconstruction is necessary to
implement recognized industry standards for the manufacturing and processing of
specific products and the reconstruction is required for the owner of the
building or structure to continue to competitively manufacture or process those
products, which shall receive prior approval from the city council upon the
recommendation of the Iowa development commission. The exemption shall also
apply to new machinery and equipment assessed to real estate pursuant to Iowa
Code section 427A.1(1), paragraph (e), unless the machinery or equipment is
part of the normal replacement or operating process to maintain or expand the
existing operational status.
   B.   Partial Exemption For Construction Or Improvement Of Industrial Real
Estate: The city council, by this section, provides for a partial exemption
from property taxation of the actual value added to industrial real estate by
the new construction of industrial real estate and the acquisition of or
improvement to machinery and equipment assessed as real estate pursuant to Iowa
Code section 427A.1(1), paragraph (e). This partial exemption shall be
available until such time as this section is repealed by the city council.
   C.   Period Of Eligibility; Rate Of Proportionate Distribution: The actual
value added to industrial real estate for the reasons specified in this section
is eligible to receive a partial exemption from taxation for a period of five
(5) years. "Actual value added" as used in this section means the actual value
added as of the first of the year for which the exemption is received, except
that actual value added by improvements to machinery and equipment means the
actual value as determined by the assessor as of January 1 of each year for
which the exemption is received. The amount of actual value added which is
eligible to be exempt from taxation shall be as follows:
      1.   For the first year, seventy five percent (75%).
      2.   For the second year, sixty percent (60%).
      3.   For the third year, forty five percent (45%).
      4.   For the fourth year, thirty percent (30%).
      5.   For the fifth year, fifteen percent (15%).
However, the granting of the exemption under this section for new construction
constituting complete replacement of an existing building or structure shall
not result in the assessed value of the industrial real estate being reduced
below the assessed value of the industrial real estate before the start of the
new construction added.
   D.   Application:
      1.   Application For Project: An application shall be filed for each
project resulting in actual value added for which an exemption is claimed. The
application for exemption shall be filed by the owner of the property with the
local assessor by February 1 of the assessment year in which the value added is
first assessed for taxation. Applications for exemption shall be made on forms
prescribed by the director of revenue and finance and shall contain information
pertaining to the nature of the improvement, its cost and other information
deemed necessary by the director of revenue and finance.
      2.   Application For Prior Approval: A person may submit a proposal to
the city council to receive prior approval for eligibility for a tax exemption
on new construction. The city council, by ordinance, may give its prior
approval of a tax exemption for new construction if the new construction is in
conformance with the zoning plans for the city. The prior approval shall also
be subject to the hearing requirements of this section. Such prior approval
shall not entitle the owner to exemption from taxation until the new
construction has been completed and found to be qualified real estate. However,
if the tax exemption for new construction is not approved, the person may
submit an amended proposal to the city council to approve or reject.
   E.   Repeal Exemption Provisions: When, in the opinion of the city council,
continuation of the exemption granted in this section ceases to be of benefit
to the city, the city council may repeal this section, but all existing
exemptions shall continue until their expiration.
   F.   Limitation On Tax Exemptions: A property tax exemption under this
section shall not be granted if the property for which the exemption is claimed
has received any other property tax exemption authorized by law. (Ord. 3136, 4-
13-1981)
1-8-6:  ELECTRONIC RECORDS AND SIGNATURES:
   A.   The following definitions apply in this section:
      1.   “Electronic record” shall have the same meaning as section
554D.103.7 of Iowa Code.
      2.   “Electronic signature” shall have the same meaning as section
554D.103.8 of Iowa Code.
      3.   “Transaction” shall have the same meaning as section 554D.103.16 of
Iowa Code.
   B.   In any transaction with the city for which the parties have agreed to
conduct the transaction by electronic means, the following provisions apply:
      1.   When a record is required to be in writing, an electronic record
satisfies that requirement, if it is in accordance with Iowa Code Chapter 554D.
      2.   When a signature is required, the parties may agree that an
electronic signature satisfies that requirement, if it is in accordance with
Iowa Code Chapter 554D.
   C.   This section enables the city to use electronic records and electronic
signatures to the fullest extent allowed by law, and does not limit the city’s
ability to use electronic records and electronic signatures in any way. The
city shall use security procedures for the purposes of verifying and
authenticating an electronic signature, record, or performance. (Ord. 5557, 6-
1-2020)
ARTICLE A. HOTEL AND MOTEL TAX
SECTION:
1-8A-1: Tax Imposed
1-8A-2: Definitions
1-8A-3: Administration
1-8A-4: Fund Credited
1-8A-5: Tax Permit
1-8A-6: Provisions Of Retail Sales Tax Applicable
1-8A-7: Local Transient Guest Tax Fund
1-8A-1: TAX IMPOSED:
There is hereby imposed by ordinance of the city council a hotel and motel tax
at a rate of seven percent (7%) upon the gross receipts from the renting of any
and all rooms, apartments or sleeping quarters in any hotel, motel, inn, public
lodging house, rooming house or tourist court, or in any place where sleeping
accommodations are furnished to transient guests for rent, whether with or
without meals. The tax shall apply only within the corporate boundaries of the
city.
The hotel and motel tax shall be imposed on April 1, 1981, following the
notification of the state director of revenue and finance. Once imposed, the
tax shall remain in effect at the rate imposed continually and perpetually
thereafter until terminated by ordinance of the city council. (Ord. 4052, 11-
14-1994)
1-8A-2: DEFINITIONS:
RENTING AND RENT: Includes any kind of direct or indirect charge for such
rooms, apartments, sleeping quarters or the use thereof. However, such tax
shall not apply to the gross receipts from the renting of a room, apartment or
sleeping quarters while rented by the same person for a period of more than
thirty one (31) consecutive days. (Ord. 4052, 11-14-1994)
1-8A-3: ADMINISTRATION:
The state director of revenue and finance shall administer the provisions of
the hotel and motel tax as nearly as possible in conjunction with the
administration of the state tax law. Said director shall provide appropriate
forms, or provide on the regular state tax forms, for reporting the hotel and
motel tax liability. All monies received or refunded one hundred eighty (180)
days after the date on which the city terminates the hotel and motel tax shall
be deposited in or withdrawn from the state general fund. (Ord. 4052, 11-14-
1994)
1-8A-4: FUND CREDITED:
The director of revenue and finance of the state, in consultation with local
officials, shall collect and account for the hotel and motel tax and shall
credit all revenues to a "local transient guest tax fund" as set forth in Iowa
Code chapter 422A. (Ord. 4052, 11-14-1994)
1-8A-5: TAX PERMIT:
No tax permit other than state tax permit required under Iowa Code section
422.53 may be required by local authorities. (Ord. 4052, 11-14-1994)
1-8A-6: PROVISIONS OF RETAIL SALES TAX APPLICABLE:
The tax herein imposed and levied shall be in addition to any state sales tax
imposed under Iowa Code section 422.43. The provisions of Iowa Code sections
422.25(4), 422.30, 422.48 to 422.52, 422.54 to 422.58, 422.67, 422.68, 422.69
(1), and 422.70 to 422.75, consistent with chapter 422A, shall apply with
respect to the taxes authorized under said chapter 422A, in the same manner and
with the same effect as if the hotel and motel taxes were retail sales taxes
within the meaning of those statutes. Notwithstanding the provisions of this
section, the director of revenue and finance of the state shall provide for
only quarterly filing of returns as prescribed in Iowa Code section 422.51.
Further, said director may require all persons as defined in Iowa Code section
422.42, who are engaged in the business of deriving gross receipts subject to
tax under Iowa Code chapter 422A, to register with the department of revenue
and finance of the state. (Ord. 4052, 11-14-1994)
1-8A-7: LOCAL TRANSIENT GUEST TAX FUND:
   A.   There is created in the office of the state treasurer a local transient
guest tax fund which shall consist of all monies credited to such fund under
this article.
   B.   All monies in the local transient guest tax fund shall be remitted at
least quarterly by the state treasurer, pursuant to rules of the director of
revenue and finance of the state, to the city in the amount collected from
business in the city.
   C.   Monies received by the city from this fund shall be credited to the
general fund of the city, subject to the provisions of subsection D of this
section.
   D.   The revenue derived from any hotel and motel tax authorized by this
article shall be used as follows:
      1.   The first three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) of revenue to
repayment of bonded indebtedness issued by the city for incentives in support
of the Lost Island Theme park project.
      2.   The remaining amount collected shall be allocated as follows:
         a.   Fifty percent (50%) to Experience Waterloo, formerly known as the
Waterloo convention and visitors bureau, for the promotion of tourism.
         b.   Twenty percent (20%) to the Waterloo Convention Center.
         c.   Ten percent (10%) to the Waterloo city council for discretionary
purposes.
         d.   Twenty percent (20%) to recreation, culture, conventions, and
entertainment. The board of directors of Experience Waterloo shall make
recommendations every January to the city council concerning the allocation of
these funds. (Ord. 4052, 11-14-1994; amd. Ord. 4584, 10-28-2002; Ord. 5758, 4-
15-2024)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Planning, Programming And Zoning Commission   1
Main Street Waterloo Redevelopment Authority   2
Community Development Board   3
Airport Board   4
Library Board Of Trustees   5
Civil Service Commission   6
Leisure Services Commission   7
Cultural And Arts Commission   8
Historic Preservation Commission   9
Human Rights Commission   10
Memorial Hall Commission   11
Waterworks Board   12
Cable TV Commission   13
Housing Authority Board   14
ADA Compliance Commission   15
Telecommunications Board   16
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING, PROGRAMMING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Commission Created
2-1-2: Purpose
2-1-3: Composition And Membership
2-1-4: Powers And Duties
2-1-5: Funds
2-1-6: Technical Assistance
2-1-7: Staff And Professional Consultants
2-1-8: Annual Report
2-1-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby created a planning, programming and zoning commission for the
city. The commission shall have all duties and powers assigned or delegated to
it within this code, the Iowa Code 1 , ordinance 2479, as amended, or any other
rules and regulations. (Ord. 4916, 6-23-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 373.1 et seq.
2-1-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this commission is to provide for the orderly growth and
development of the community through the systematic development of a
comprehensive plan and implementation program. (Ord. 4916, 6-23-2008)
2-1-3: COMPOSITION AND MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Composition: The planning, programming and zoning commission shall
consist of six (6) members from the city at large and one member of each of the
following boards and commissions of the city: community development board,
human rights commission, and Waterloo school board. The six (6) commissioners
from the city at large shall be appointed by the mayor subject to the approval
of the city council and the board and commission representatives shall be
selected by their respective board or commission as a whole.
   B.   Term Of Office: The term of office of the members of the planning,
programming and zoning commission who are members of boards, commissions or the
city council shall coincide with their term of office on said board, commission
or city council. The members of the planning, programming and zoning commission
from the city at large shall serve a term of office of three (3) years. No
member of said commission shall serve more than two (2) consecutive terms and
shall not be reappointed to a third term unless said member has not served on
any board or commission of the city for a minimum of one year before
reappointment to any board or commission; except a third term may be approved
upon extraordinary circumstances and unavailability of applicants.
   C.   Filling Vacancies: If any commissioner from among the city at large
representatives shall leave the planning, programming and zoning commission
through resignation or otherwise, the mayor shall appoint a successor subject
to the approval of the city council. If any planning, programming and zoning
commissioner who is a member of a board, commission or the city council shall
leave the commission, the members of the respective board, commission or city
council shall appoint a successor.
   D.   Compensation: All members of the commission shall serve without
compensation except their actual expenses, which shall be subject to the
approval of the city council.
   E.   Organization: The planning, programming and zoning commission shall
annually elect, at its first regular meeting of each calendar year, one of its
city at large commissioners to act as chair of the commission, and another of
its members as vice chair, who shall perform all the duties of the chair during
his absence, and a secretary.
   F.   Rules And Regulations: The commission shall adopt such rules and
regulations governing its organization and procedure as may be deemed
necessary.
   G.   Committees: The commission shall establish any and all committees
deemed necessary for the execution of its powers and duties.
   H.   Meeting Attendance: Commission members are expected to attend all
regular and special meetings of the commission. Any commission member who
misses more than three (3) meetings (excused and/or unexcused) in a twelve (12)
month period may be recommended for removal by the executive committee (chair,
vice chair and secretary) to the mayor and city council. If a member has a
valid excuse for nonattendance, the member shall notify the commission
chairperson or secretary prior to the meeting. Any commission member can be
removed for cause by the city council. (Ord. 4916, 6-23-2008)
2-1-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   General: The planning, programming and zoning commission shall have
full power and authority to make or cause to be made such surveys, studies,
maps, plans or charts of the whole or any portion of the city, and of any land
outside thereof, which, in the opinion of such commission, bears relation to a
comprehensive plan and program for development of the city, and shall submit
these studies to the city council. The commission may publish its studies and
recommendations.
   B.   Comprehensive Plan: For the purpose of making a comprehensive plan and
program for the physical development of the city, the planning, programming and
zoning commission shall make careful and comprehensive studies of present
conditions and future growth of the city with due regard to its relation to
neighboring territory. The plan shall be made with the general purpose of
guiding and accomplishing a coordinated, adjusted and harmonious development of
the city and its environs which will, in accordance with present and future
needs, best promote health, safety, order, convenience, prosperity and general
welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in process and development. Any and
all plans and programs for the physical development of the city existing prior
to the effective date of this chapter shall remain effective until revised or
incorporated by a plan adopted according to this section.
   C.   Adoption: Before adopting said comprehensive plan, or any part of it,
or any substantial amendment thereof, the commission shall hold at least one
public hearing thereon, notice of the time and place of which shall be given by
one publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the city, not less
than ten (10) nor more than twenty (20) days before the date of hearing. The
adoption of the plan or part or amendment thereof shall be by resolution of the
commission carried by the affirmative vote of not less than two-thirds (2/3) of
the members of the commission. After adoption of said plan by the commission,
an attested copy thereof shall be certified to the city council and the city
council may approve the same, and when said plan or any modification or
amendment thereof shall receive the approval of the city council, said plan
until subsequently modified or amended, as authorized by this subsection and
subsections B and D of this section, shall constitute the official city plan of
the city.
   D.   Amendment Of Plan: When said comprehensive plan has been adopted as
above provided for, no substantial amendment or modification thereof shall be
made without such proposed change being first referred to the planning,
programming and zoning commission for its recommendation. If the planning,
programming and zoning commission disapproves the proposed change, it may be
adopted by the city council only by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds
(2/3) of all the membership of the city council.
   E.   Recommendations: The planning, programming and zoning commission shall
consider such other matters as the staff or city council shall find it
advisable or essential to receive consideration by the planning, programming
and zoning commission.
   F.   Approval Of Plats: All plans, plats, or replats of subdivisions or
resubdivision of land embraced in the city or adjacent thereto, laid out in
lots or plats with the streets, alleys or other portions of the same intended
to be dedicated to the public in the city and all proposals for the vacation of
a street, alley or public ground shall first be submitted to the planning,
programming and zoning commission and its recommendation obtained before
approval of the city council. (Ord. 4916, 6-23-2008)
2-1-5: FUNDS:
   A.   Appropriation Of Funds: The city council may annually appropriate a sum
of money from the general fund for the payment of the expenses of such
commission.
   B.   Expenditure Of Funds: The commission shall have full, complete and
exclusive authority to expend for and on behalf of the city all sums of money
so appropriated.
   C.   Grants, Gifts And Donations: All grants, gifts, donations or payments
whatsoever which are received by the city for city plan and program purposes
shall be placed in the planning, programming and zoning commission fund, to be
used by said commission in the manner and for the purposes designated by this
chapter.
   D.   Debt Contracting Powers: The commission shall have no power to contract
debts beyond the amount of its income for the current year. (Ord. 4916, 6-23-
2008)
2-1-6: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE:
   A.   Technical Committee: Technical assistance for the planning, programming
and zoning commission shall be provided through the establishment of a plan and
program technical committee.
   B.   Composition: The technical committee shall be composed of, but not
limited to, the following: city engineer, leisure services director, waterworks
manager, district soil conservationist, police and fire chiefs, community
development director, planning director, building official, a representative of
the Waterloo school board, a representative of the Iowa department of
transportation highway division headquarters and a representative of the Iowa
Northland Regional Council of Governments. Department heads and board or
commission directors whose agencies have a significant impact upon community
development planning and programming may serve on the committee in a nonvoting
status. A designated representative of any voting member shall have all rights
and privileges of said member.
   C.   Powers And Duties: The committee shall have the authority to review,
analyze and make recommendations of a technical nature on items which are
brought before the planning, programming and zoning commission.
   D.   Rules And Regulations: The technical committee shall adopt such rules
and regulations governing its organization and procedures as may be deemed
necessary subject to the approval of the commission. (Ord. 4916, 6-23-2008)
2-1-7: STAFF AND PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANTS:
The planning and zoning department 1  shall provide staff support to the
planning, programming and zoning commission. Subject to the limitations
contained in this chapter as to the expenditure of funds, and subject to city
council approval, the commission may contract with professional consultants or
county, regional, state and federal governments for local planning assistance,
and may agree with each or all of them as to the amount, if any, to be paid for
such planning assistance. (Ord. 4916, 6-23-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 1, chapter 6, article E of this code.
2-1-8: ANNUAL REPORT:
Each year the commission shall make a report to the mayor and city council of
its proceedings with a full statement of its receipts, disbursements and the
progress of its work for the preceding fiscal year. (Ord. 4916, 6-23-2008)
CHAPTER 2
MAIN STREET WATERLOO REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
SECTION:
2-2-1: Creation And Purpose
2-2-2: Composition And Membership
2-2-3: Powers And Duties
2-2-4: Financing
2-2-5: Staff And Special Consultants
2-2-6: Annual Report
2-2-1: CREATION AND PURPOSE:
There is hereby created a commission, hereinafter known as the Main Street
Waterloo redevelopment authority, and referred to in this chapter as the
commission, to act as agent for the city and for the purpose of development and
redevelopment of the central business district in the city. For purposes of
this chapter, the central business district is defined as all properties lying
with the area bounded, on the northeast, by Franklin Street, on the southeast,
by the Union Pacific Railroad line between 6th and 7th Streets, on the
southwest, by Washington Street (formerly Bluff Street), and on the northwest,
by 3rd Street and its extension to the Cedar River, except that the two block
area bounded by Washington Street, West 5th Street, Jefferson Street and West
7th Street is not included in the central business district. (Ord. 5289, 6-22-
2015)
2-2-2: COMPOSITION AND MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Composition: Commission members shall be the same persons as the board
of directors of the Cedar Skyline Corporation, an Iowa nonprofit corporation,
organized to operate for the improvement of the traditional downtown business
area in the city, within the meaning of internal revenue code 501(c)(6).
The commission shall not be reduced from the current number of authorized
members of the Cedar Skyline board of directors, nor shall the makeup of the
members of the commission vary from that set forth in the bylaws in existence
for Cedar Skyline Corporation, a copy of which is herein incorporated by
reference and kept on file in the office of the city clerk, without amendment
to this chapter.
Notwithstanding the foregoing paragraphs of this subsection, Cedar Skyline
Corporation is a distinct entity that exists apart from the commission and
conducts operations and business separate from the commission. The provisions
of this chapter do not govern Cedar Skyline Corporation except to the extent
that Cedar Skyline Corporation, its directors, officers or members, act in
their capacity as commission members and with respect to the property and
affairs of the commission.
   B.   Term Of Office: The term of office of the commission members shall be
as defined for the board of directors in the bylaws of Cedar Skyline
Corporation.
   C.   Filling Vacancies: The vacancy of any commission position, occurring
for any reason whatsoever, shall be filled in the same manner as a vacant board
position is filled in accordance with the bylaws of Cedar Skyline Corporation.
   D.   Compensation: All members of the commission shall serve without
compensation except their actual expenses, which shall be subject to the
approval of the commission.
   E.   Officers: Offices of the commission shall be filled in the same
capacity by those officers elected by the board of directors for Cedar Skyline
Corporation.
   F.   Councils: The commission shall establish any and all committees (called
councils) being necessary for the execution of its powers and duties. (Ord.
5289, 6-22-2015)
2-2-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The commission shall have full power and authority to make or cause to
be made such surveys, studies, maps, plans or charts of the whole or portions
of the central business district and of any land outside of the district which
in the opinion of the commission bears relation to the development or
redevelopment of the district, and shall submit these studies to the city
council. The commission may publish its studies and recommendations.
   B.   No proposal for the development, redevelopment or modification to the
exterior of any building or grounds of the central business district shall be
made without such proposal or change being first referred to the commission,
which shall have had fifteen (15) days for review and action. Failure to
respond in writing within fifteen (15) days shall be deemed approval. If said
proposal is subsequently approved by the commission, whether through default or
specific action, the normal process for obtaining building construction permits
may proceed; provided, however, that within ten (10) days following approval by
any means the mayor or three (3) members of the city council may request that
the approval be brought before the city council for review at its next meeting.
The city council may override the approval of the commission by at least two-
thirds (2/3) of all members of the city council. If the commission recommends
disapproval of any proposal or modification thereof, the developer may appeal
to the city council within fifteen (15) days of said disapproval; however, the
city council may override the recommendation of the commission and approve the
proposed development by at least two-thirds (2/3) of all members of the city
council.
   C.   All signs and/or street amenities shall be reviewed by the commission,
its designated staff and/or any agency or committee of its designation to
ensure the compatibility of the overall design concept of the central business
district as set forth above. If any person wishes to appeal any decision made
by the commission or its staff, they may do so as outlined in subsection B of
this section.
   D.   The commission shall have the power to acquire real estate within the
central business district by lease or purchase, as may be deemed necessary for
development or redevelopment of the central business district. Real estate
owned by the commission shall be held in the name of the commission and not
Cedar Skyline Corporation. The commission shall have the authority to sell,
exchange or lease any real estate acquired by it, subject to the approval of
the city council. No real estate which shall be determined to affect the
district shall be bought or sold by the city without first receiving the
committee's recommendation.
   E.   The commission would act for the city in representing the central
business district by performing the following functions:
      1.   Make recommendations to the mayor and city council regarding
exercise of the use of eminent domain, for the acquisition of real or personal
property and for the purpose of a development or redevelopment project;
      2.   Make recommendations to the mayor and city council with regard to
the application for an acceptance of capital grants and loans from the United
States and the state of Iowa or any other instrumentality of the United States
or the state of Iowa for the development or redevelopment of the central
business district, and to assist the city council in making application for
said capital grants and loans;
      3.   Make recommendations to the mayor and city council with regard to
the borrowing of funds as may be deemed necessary for the development and
redevelopment of the central business district, and in this connection make
recommendations regarding the issuance of such obligation or recitative bonds
as may be deemed necessary, subject to the applicable statute of limitations;
      4.   Make recommendations to the mayor and city council with regard to
the procedures, policies and/or ordinances for the planning, execution and
implementation of plans regarding the downtown area. (Ord. 5289, 6-22-2015)
2-2-4: FINANCING:
   A.   Appropriation Of Funds: The city council may annually appropriate a sum
of money for the payment of the commission's expenses.
   B.   Expenditure Of Funds: The commission shall have full, complete and
exclusive authority to expend for and on behalf of the city all sums of money
so appropriated.
   C.   Grants And Donations: All grants, gifts and donations or payments
whatsoever received by the city on behalf of the commission for downtown
development or redevelopment purposes shall be placed in the commission fund
and may be used by the commission in the manner and for the purposes designated
by the Cedar Skyline Corporation bylaws, although such funds shall be the
property of the commission and not Cedar Skyline Corporation.
   D.   Debt Contracting Powers: The commission shall have no power to contract
debt beyond the amount of its projected income for the following fiscal year.
(Ord. 5289, 6-22-2015)
2-2-5: STAFF AND SPECIAL CONSULTANTS:
Subject to the limitations contained in this chapter as to city expenditure of
funds, the commission may hire such staff that it may deem necessary and
prescribe and define their respective duties and fix and regulate the
compensation to be paid to the person(s) employed by it.
The commission may contract with professional consultants or county, regional,
state and federal governments for planning assistance and may agree with each
or all of them to the amount, if any, to be paid for such assistance. (Ord.
5289, 6-22-2015)
2-2-6: ANNUAL REPORT:
The commission each year shall make a report to the mayor and city council of
its proceedings and the progress of its work for the preceding fiscal year.
(Ord. 5289, 6-22-2015)
CHAPTER 3
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BOARD
SECTION:
2-3-1: Board Created; Members
2-3-2: Rules And Regulations
2-3-3: Appropriations
2-3-4: Urban Renewal
2-3-1: BOARD CREATED; MEMBERS:
The city elects to have its urban renewal power exercised by the city council
with the assistance of a board as created herein. Said board shall be known as
the community development board.
The community development board shall consist of seven (7) members, and the
terms of office shall commence on March 1. Board members holding office on
February 20, 1995, shall serve the remainder of their current five (5) year
terms. Of the two (2) new members, one member shall hold office for two (2)
years, and one member shall hold office for three (3) years. All future
appointments to this board shall be made by the city council for three (3) year
terms. No member of said board shall serve more than two (2) consecutive terms
and shall not be reappointed to a third term unless said member has not served
on any board or commission of the city for a minimum of one year before
reappointment to any board or commission; except a third term may be approved
upon extraordinary circumstances and unavailability of applicants. (Ord. 4074,
2-20-1995; amd. Ord. 4145, 1-8-1996)
2-3-2: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The board shall adopt such rules and regulations governing its organization and
procedure as may be deemed necessary, and it shall make an annual report to the
city council on or before March 1 in each year, such report to contain its
proceedings with a full statement of its receipts, disbursements and the
progress of its work for the preceding fiscal year. The community development
board shall follow and conform to all city policies and procedures regarding
the appointment and compensation of personnel. (Ord. 4074, 2-20-1995)
2-3-3: APPROPRIATIONS:
The city council shall annually appropriate a sum of money from the general
fund for the payment of the expense of such board. The board shall have full,
complete and exclusive authority to expend for and on behalf of such city all
sums of money so appropriated. All such expenditures shall be made pursuant to
and in conformance with the board's established policies and procedures. Gifts,
donations or payments which are received by such city for urban renewal
purposes shall be placed in such fund, to be used by the board in a manner
appropriate for its purpose. Said board shall have no power to contract debts
beyond the amount of its income for the current year. (Ord. 4074, 2-20-1995)
2-3-4: URBAN RENEWAL:
The board shall be responsible for the preparation and execution of a general
urban renewal program for the city, including specific urban renewal projects,
and all other activities incidental to the successful carrying out of an urban
renewal program, as outlined in Iowa Code chapter 403, and any amendments
thereto, subject to the approval of the city council. Policies and procedures
shall be adopted by the board and submitted to the city council. The city
council may, by further resolution, amend or reverse actions taken by the board
if it determines said actions (or lack thereof) are not in conformance with the
board's established policies and procedures, or the policies and procedures in
question are not in the best interest of the city. (Ord. 4074, 2-20-1995)
CHAPTER 4
AIRPORT BOARD
SECTION:
2-4-1: Airport Board Established
2-4-2: Qualifications Of Board Members
2-4-3: Organization Of Board
2-4-4: Meetings And Minutes
2-4-5: Powers And Responsibilities Of Board
2-4-6: Board Regulations
2-4-7: Powers Reserved By City Council
2-4-8: Aviation Director And Aviation Department
2-4-9: Aviation Personnel
2-4-10: Administrative And Support Services
2-4-1: AIRPORT BOARD ESTABLISHED:
   A.   There is hereby established in and for the city the Waterloo airport
board of directors (hereinafter referred to in this chapter as the board)
created under Iowa Code chapter 392 for the purpose of governing the operation
of the Waterloo airport and managing the development of land and infrastructure
in the area adjacent to the airport, pursuant to the terms and provisions of
this chapter.
   B.   Subject to this chapter, the board shall succeed to the current
responsibilities of the airport commission and the airport area development
authority, both of which are hereby abolished.
   C.   The board shall consist of seven (7) members each having the right to
vote. The members shall be appointed by the mayor, which appointment shall be
approved by the city council. Three (3) board members shall initially be
appointed for two (2) years, two (2) board members for three (3) years and two
(2) board members appointed for four (4) years. The terms of the board members
initially appointed shall be determined by their appointment. Absent member
lots shall be drawn by a proxy. Thereafter, the term of each member shall be
for four (4) years and any vacancies occurring in the membership shall be
filled in accordance with this chapter. Any member may be removed by a majority
vote of the city council. The terms of board members shall expire on and as of
June 30 of the year in which their terms expire. All appointments after the
original appointments shall be in accordance with this chapter. (Ord. 4400, 12-
13-1999)
2-4-2: QUALIFICATIONS OF BOARD MEMBERS:
To be eligible to be appointed a member of the Waterloo airport board, the
appointee must be a resident of the city, except two (2) members may be
residents of Black Hawk County or any county within the state, and one member
may be a resident of the city of Cedar Falls, Iowa. Board members should have
expertise in aviation, business, accounting, finance, marketing, engineering,
law, real estate development, management or other fields of value to the
operation of the airport and the management of development of adjacent areas.
(Ord. 4400, 12-13-1999; amd. Ord. 4411, 4-10-2000)
2-4-3: ORGANIZATION OF BOARD:
At its first meeting, the board shall elect a chair from its own membership.
The board shall, in a timely manner, adopt bylaws and regulations to govern the
proceedings of the board. The presence of four (4) members of the board shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. All actions of the board
shall be by resolution or motion and the affirmative vote of at least four (4)
members shall be required for the passage of either action. (Ord. 4400, 12-13-
1999)
2-4-4: MEETINGS AND MINUTES:
The board shall hold at least one public meeting each month, at such times as
the board shall establish in its bylaws. Minutes of each meeting shall be kept
and all resolutions and minutes shall be open to public inspection. Board
meetings shall be conducted in compliance with all applicable state or federal
laws, including, but not limited to, Iowa Code chapter 21, open meetings. (Ord.
4400, 12-13-1999)
2-4-5: POWERS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF BOARD:
Except as otherwise herein provided, the board shall have the authority to
govern the operation of the Waterloo municipal airport and the management of
development of adjacent areas, including, but not limited to, the following
powers and responsibilities:
   A.   Establish and enforce regulations for the control, operation,
supervision and maintenance and security of the airport, provided such
regulations do not conflict with existing city ordinances or with state or
federal laws, rules or regulations.
   B.   Establish by regulation rates and charges for use of the airport,
airport facilities or airport services, to support the operations and
development of the airport, including passenger facility charges, except that
admission charges and temporary parking charges for special events may be set
by board resolution. The level of rates and charges shall be consistent with
the operating and capital improvement budgets.
   C.   Negotiate and execute leases, concession agreements, and operating
agreements of not to exceed three (3) years in duration for the use of real
property and facilities under the jurisdiction of the Waterloo airport. Any
leases, concession agreements or operating agreements for the use of real
property and facilities under the jurisdiction of the Waterloo airport which
exceed three (3) years in duration shall require approval by the city council.
All agreements, concession agreements and operating agreements under the
jurisdiction of Waterloo airport, which do not involve the lease or real
property, may be negotiated and executed by the board.
   D.   Enter into contracts for public improvements contained in the city's
capital improvements program (CIP) for the year of initiation when the funding
from the general fund, general obligation bonds or state or federal grants is
available or has been secured for the project. In awarding contracts for public
improvements, the estimated cost of which exceeds twenty five thousand dollars
($25,000.00), the board shall follow the requirements of Iowa Code chapter 384,
division VI and applicable provisions of this code. All references to the city
council in those provisions shall be deemed to mean the airport board in their
application as herein provided.
   E.   Buy, lease, sell or exchange supplies, equipment and materials and to
procure services or work to the extent unencumbered funds are available for
payment pursuant to the provisions of this code.
   F.   Develop for approval by the city council, maintain and follow yearly
operating and capital improvement budgets included as part of the total city
budget. The board shall submit its operating and capital budgets to the mayor
for recommendation and transmittal to the city council in accordance with time
tables established by the mayor. The board and the mayor shall jointly agree on
the staffing levels which would be included in the operating budget. The board
has discretion to transfer expenditures between operating budget account codes
as necessary subject to approval of the finance committee of the city council.
All expenditures and all transfers between account codes shall be reported to
the finance department and shall be reflected in quarterly and annual reports
prepared by the finance department. In the process of developing and
administering the yearly budget, the board shall assure as a first priority the
payment of principal and interest on general obligation bonds issued in the
name of the city for airport purposes.
   G.   Develop and implement a marketing plan aimed at establishing the
Waterloo airport as an economic generator and attraction for Waterloo and the
state. The board shall engage in appropriate activities which will promote
improvements and growth in scheduled passenger airline service, cargo service,
general aviation use of the airport, as well air transportation related
services for the community.
   H.   Create advisory committees and appoint members thereto, including both
residents and nonresidents of the city. Individuals excluded from board
membership because of their direct financial interest may be eligible for
appointment to such advisory committees, subject to the limitations imposed by
law.
   I.   Prepare and deliver to the city council an annual report covering
program activities and financial status within one hundred twenty (120) days
after the end of the fiscal year.
   J.   Organize, supervise, manage and direct the development of a trade and
commerce center located adjacent to the Waterloo municipal airport.
   K.   Review and either approve or disapprove all plans associated with
development or redevelopment of the airport.
   L.   Ensure that all airport revenues collected by or under board authority
are credited to the general fund, and that all expenditures from said fund for
airport purposes are done in accordance with applicable state and federal laws
and regulations.
   M.   Maintain a positive cash balance at all times in airport operations.
   N.   Acquire by voluntary sale or gift property interests as necessary to
implement an airport land use plan or other plan approved by the board. All
such acquisitions shall be accepted and approved by the city council.
   O.   File with the city clerk for public inspection copies of minutes
summarizing all board meetings, including resolutions and motions passed by the
board within seven (7) days of the meeting at which the minutes were approved.
The minutes at each preceding meeting shall be presented at the next meeting
for approval by the airport board.
   P.   The board may prepare and present to the city council recommendations
for the issuance of bonds, the amount to be financed, method of repayment and
the expected revenues and necessary charges to be created in order to meet the
debt repayments.
   Q.   Create subcommittees of the board, including, at least, an airport
operations committee and an airport area development committee.
The delegation of power and responsibility to the board is strictly subject to
the limitations imposed by any revenue bonds or obligations issued or
outstanding which are payable from the revenues of the airport. (Ord. 4400, 12-
13-1999)
2-4-6: BOARD REGULATIONS:
   A.   Adoption Of Regulations: Regulations proposed by adoption by the board
shall be in writing. In adopting a regulation, the board shall take the
following actions in the listed order:
      1.   File said proposed regulations with the city clerk.
      2.   Publish notice of intent to adopt the regulation of the time and
place of a public hearing thereon, including then a description of the
regulation and its proposed effective date, and stating that it is on file with
the city clerk.
      3.   Notify the city council of the proposed effective date of the
regulation and provide a copy thereof to the city council for its review.
      4.   Hold a public hearing on the proposed regulation; and
      5.   Adopt the regulation by board resolution and cause the city clerk to
publish it prior to its effective date as provided by Iowa Code section 362.5.
   B.   Time Of Adoption: Except in case of an emergency requiring prompt
action by the board, the adoption of a regulation shall occur at a regular
board meeting following the regular meeting at which the public hearing on the
regulation is held. If, upon its review of a proposed regulation, the city
council determines that such regulation is inconsistent with the provisions of
this code, or is inconsistent with any applicable state or federal law or
regulation, or is otherwise objectionable, the city council may so declare by
resolution, and in that event the proposed regulation shall not be published
and shall not take effect. Regulations adopted by the board shall be effective
upon their publication.
   C.   Legal Effect Of Board Regulations: Regulations adopted by the board
shall have the effect of law. Any person who fails to perform an action
required by such regulations, or commits an act prohibited by such regulations,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable as provided by section
1-3-1 of this code, or shall be guilty of a municipal infraction punishable as
provided by subsection
1-3-2C of this code. (Ord. 4400, 12-13-1999; amd. 2001 Code)
2-4-7: POWERS RESERVED BY CITY COUNCIL:
In addition to those powers previously reserved to the mayor or city council,
the following powers are specifically reserved to the city council:
   A.   All property interests acquired by the board, whether real or personal,
shall be acquired in the name of the city and at all times remain an asset of
the city.
   B.   The exercise of the power of eminent domain.
   C.   The levying of real property taxes.
   D.   The undertaking of debt, including the issuance of bonds or the
execution of any form of loan or promissory note.
   E.   The mortgage, sale or conveyance of airport assets or real property or
its encumbrance for a period in excess of three (3) years.
   F.   Approval and acceptance of state or federal grants or subsidies.
   G.   The establishment of insurance limits and procurement of insurance for
the airport.
   H.   The representation and defense of the airport in all disputes, claims,
actions or lawsuits, including the settlement of all such matters.
   I.   Approval of the airport land use development plans and any amendments
thereto. The city council shall provide directives to the board for carrying
out such plan which the board shall be required to follow.
   J.   The right to have any person aggrieved by the board in matters of
health, safety or property appear before the city council. (Ord. 4400, 12-13-
1999)
2-4-8: AVIATION DIRECTOR AND AVIATION DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Appointment Of Director: The director of aviation shall be appointed by
the mayor, which appointment shall be approved by the city council. The mayor
shall consult with the board before such appointment. The mayor and the chair
of the airport board shall jointly review and evaluate the performance of the
aviation director at appropriate times, but not less than annually.
   B.   Duties Of Aviation Director: The director of aviation shall be
responsible for:
      1.   The implementation of the policies, programs and plans of the
Waterloo airport board, and for representing the position of the board with
regard thereto.
      2.   Assisting the board in communications with state and federal
agencies.
      3.   Assisting the board in the preparation of a yearly operating and
capital improvement budget for the airport.
      4.   Assisting the board in the formulation of rules, regulations,
operating agreements, contracts, grant applications and other such matters as
the board shall from time to time determine.
      5.   The supervision of the department of aviation and its employees.
      6.   All airport operations and activities.
      7.   The maintenance and protection of airport property.
   C.   Director's Authority To Adopt Rules: The director is authorized to
adopt such written rules as he deems necessary for the operation and protection
of the airport, and for the implementation of the policies, programs and plans
of the Waterloo municipal airport board; provided, however, that such rules
shall be consistent with the provisions of this code, the regulations adopted
by the board and all applicable state and federal laws and regulations.
   D.   Board's Review Authority: If, upon its review of a rule proposed or
adopted by the director, the board determines that it is in conflict with
regulations adopted by the board, the rule shall not take effect or shall be
withdrawn. (Ord. 4400, 12-13-1999)
2-4-9: AVIATION PERSONNEL:
All personnel of the aviation department shall be employees of the city. All
personnel and labor relations matters relating to employees of the aviation
department, or relating to administrative or support services provided by the
city, shall remain the responsibility of and under the control of the mayor in
accordance with Iowa Code chapter 20. The aviation director shall report to the
mayor with respect to these specific areas. (Ord. 4400, 12-13-1999)
2-4-10: ADMINISTRATIVE AND SUPPORT SERVICES:
The city shall provide and the board shall utilize services of the city,
including, but not limited to, aviation services (including airfield, building,
ground, operation and maintenance services), engineering services, personnel
services, legal services, accounting services, payroll services, property
acquisition services, public improvement design services, contract procurement
and administration services, purchasing services, financial services, fire
services (excluding priority aircraft rescue and fire fighting services),
police services, planning and development services and staffing, marketing
services and general administrative services to administer, operate and
maintain the Waterloo airport; provided, however, that if the board and mayor
jointly agree that the city cannot provide the expertise, extraordinary effort,
or special resources required for a particular project, the board may acquire
and utilize outside services to accomplish such project. A record of such
agreement shall be preserved in the minutes of the board. The reasonable cost
of providing such city services shall be charged to airport operations. (Ord.
4400, 12-13-1999)
CHAPTER 5
LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES 1
SECTION:
2-5-1: Board Established, Members
2-5-2: Organization Of Board
2-5-3: Powers And Duties
2-5-4: Annual Report
 
Notes
1 1. See title 7, chapter 7 of this code.
2-5-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED, MEMBERS:
The board of trustees of the Waterloo public library, hereinafter referred to
as the board, shall consist of five (5) members. All board members are to be
appointed by the mayor with the approval of the city council, and shall be bona
fide citizens and residents of the city over the age of eighteen (18) years.
(Ord. 2739, 5-27-1975)
2-5-2: ORGANIZATION OF BOARD:
   A.   Terms Of Office: All appointments to the board shall be for six (6)
years, except to fill vacancies. Each term shall commence on July 1.
Appointments shall be made every two (2) years of one-third (1/3) the total
number, as nearly as possible, to stagger the terms. The present incumbents are
confirmed in their appointments and terms. No member of said board shall serve
more than two (2) consecutive terms and shall not be reappointed to a third
term unless said member has not served on any board or commission of the city
for a minimum of one year before reappointment to any board or commission;
except a third term may be approved upon extraordinary circumstances and
unavailability of applicants.
   B.   Vacancies: The position of any trustee shall be vacant if he moves
permanently from the city; or if he is absent from six (6) consecutive regular
meetings of the board, except in the case of sickness or temporary absence from
the city. Vacancies in the board shall be filled by appointment of the mayor,
with approval of the city council, and the new trustee shall fill out the
unexpired term for which the appointment is made.
   C.   Compensation: Trustees shall receive no compensation for their
services. (Ord. 2739, 5-27-1975; amd. Ord. 4145, 1-8-1996)
2-5-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The board shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
   A.   To meet and elect from its members a president, a secretary, and such
other officers as it deems necessary.
   B.   To have charge, control and supervision of the public library, its
appurtenances, fixtures and rooms containing the same.
   C.   To direct and control all the affairs of the library.
   D.   To employ a librarian, and authorize the librarian to employ such
assistants and employees as may be necessary for the proper management of the
library, and fix their compensation; provided, however, that prior to such
employment, the compensation of the librarian, assistants and employees shall
have been fixed and approved by a majority of the members of the board voting
in favor thereof.
   E.   To remove by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the board the librarian and
provide procedures for the removal of assistants or employees for misdemeanor,
incompetency or inattention to duty, subject, however, to the provisions of
Iowa Code chapter 70.
   F.   To select, or authorize the librarian to select, and make purchases of
books, pamphlets, magazines, periodicals, papers, maps, journals, other library
materials, furniture, fixtures, stationery and supplies for the library within
budgetary limits set by the board.
   G.   To authorize the use of the library by nonresidents of the city and to
fix charges therefor.
   H.   To make and adopt, amend, modify or repeal rules and regulations, not
inconsistent with ordinances and the law, for the care, use, government and
management of the library and the business of the board fixing and enforcing
penalties for violations.
   I.   To have exclusive control of the expenditure of all funds allocated for
library purposes by the city council, and of all monies available by gift or
otherwise for the erection of library buildings, and of all other monies
belonging to the library including fines and rentals collected, under the rules
of the board.
   J.   To accept gifts of real property, personal property, or mixed property,
and devises and bequests, including trust funds; to take the title to said
property in the name of the library; to execute deeds and bills of sale for the
conveyance of said property; and to expend the funds received by them from such
gifts, for the improvement of the library.
   K.   To keep a record of its proceedings.
   L.   To enforce the performance of conditions on gifts, donations, devises
and bequests accepted by the city by action against the city council.
   M.   To have authority to make agreements with the local county historical
association, where such exists, and to set apart the necessary room and to care
for such articles as may come into the possession of the association. The
trustees are further authorized to purchase necessary receptacles and materials
for the preservation and protection of such articles as are in their judgment
of an historical and educational nature and pay for the same out of funds
allocated for library purposes. (Ord. 2739, 5-27-1975; amd. 2001 Code)
2-5-4: ANNUAL REPORT:
The library board shall make a report to the city council immediately after the
close of the municipal fiscal year. This report shall contain statements of the
condition of the library, the number of books added thereto, the number
circulated, the amount of fines collected, and the amount of money expended in
the maintenance of the library during the year, together with such further
information required by the city council. (Ord. 2739, 5-27-1975)
CHAPTER 6
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-6-1: Commission Created
2-6-2: Terms
2-6-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
A civil service commission is established pursuant to Iowa Code chapter 400.
(Ord. 4159, 3-18-1996)
2-6-2: TERMS:
Commissioners shall serve six (6) year staggered terms as established by Iowa
Code section 400.1. However, no member of said commission shall serve more than
two (2) consecutive terms and shall not be reappointed to a third term unless
said member has not served on any board or commission of the city for a minimum
of one year before reappointment to any board or commission. (Ord. 4159, 3-18-
1996)
CHAPTER 7
LEISURE SERVICES COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-7-1: Commission Created
2-7-2: Composition And Membership
2-7-3: Powers And Duties
2-7-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is established a leisure services commission to act as an advisory board
in the development and use of leisure activities and facilities. (Ord. 4671, 2-
23-2004)
2-7-2: COMPOSITION AND MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Membership; Term: The leisure services commission shall consist of
seven (7) members to be appointed by the mayor with the approval of the city
council. The regular, full term of office for two (2) of the members shall be
for three (3) years expiring on March 1, 2007. Two (2) members appointed
thereafter shall hold office for two (2) years with the term expiring on March
1, 2006; and the remaining three (3) members shall hold office for one year
with the term expiring on March 1, 2005. All subsequent appointments shall be
for a term of three (3) years. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as
original appointments. The commissioners shall hold their office until their
successors are appointed and qualified. The appointment shall be made upon the
expiration of each current term of office. No member of the commission shall
serve more than two (2) consecutive terms and shall not be reappointed to a
third term unless the member has not served on any board or commission of the
city for a minimum of one year before reappointment to any board or commission;
except one or more additional terms may be approved upon extraordinary
circumstances and unavailability of applicants as determined by the mayor.
   B.   Persons Eligible For Membership: Qualified electors of the city are
eligible for appointment to the leisure services commission.
   C.   Compensation: Each commissioner shall serve without compensation.
   D.   Filling Vacancies: Vacancies occurring on the commission shall be
filled by the mayor in the same manner as regular appointments, which shall be
to fill out the unexpired term for which the appointment is made.
   E.   Officers And Duties: The officers of the commission shall be a chair,
vice chair and secretary. At its first organizational meeting of each year, the
leisure services commissioners shall elect a chair, a vice chair and a
secretary, who shall each serve a one year term. The chair shall vote on all
matters and decide on all points of order and procedure for the conduct of
meetings, subject to these rules, unless otherwise directed by a majority of
the commission members in session at the time. The chair shall appoint any
standing or temporary committees necessary to carry out the functions of the
commission. The keeping of the minutes may be delegated to the director of the
leisure services commission or his secretary. In the absence of the chair, the
vice chair shall be the presiding officer, and in the absence of the vice
chair, the secretary shall be the presiding officer. (Ord. 4671, 2-23-2004)
2-7-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The leisure services commission shall have the following duties:
   A.   To evaluate the needs and review plans presented by the leisure
services director for future leisure activities, programs and facilities.
   B.   To advise and recommend to the mayor and city council on rate
schedules, leases, contracts, major purchases and rules and regulations.
   C.   To review and recommend on the annual budget as presented by the
leisure services director. (Ord. 4671, 2-23-2004)
CHAPTER 8
CULTURAL AND ARTS COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-8-1: Commission Established
2-8-2: Composition And Membership
2-8-3: Meetings
2-8-4: Powers And Duties
2-8-5: Grants, Gifts And Donations
2-8-1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED:
There shall be established a cultural and arts commission responsible to
provide opportunities in the arts, in the broadest sense, to enhance the
quality of life of the citizens of Waterloo. (Ord. 4341, 2-22-1999)
2-8-2: COMPOSITION AND MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Appointments; Term: The seven (7) members serving on the cultural and
arts commission as of March 1, 2001, shall remain as members of the commission
and shall serve their unexpired terms. Four (4) new members shall be appointed
by the mayor with the approval of the council. One of the new members' initial
term shall expire March 1, 2002; two (2) of the new members' initial terms
shall expire March 1, 2003; and one of the new members' term shall expire March
1, 2004. Thereafter, all terms shall be for three (3) years. No member of the
commission shall serve more than two (2) consecutive terms and shall not be
reappointed to a third term unless the member has not served on any board or
commission of the city for a minimum of one year before reappointment to any
board or commission; except a third term may be approved upon extraordinary
circumstances and unavailability of applicants as determined by the mayor.
Prior to March 1 of each year, the mayor with the approval of the council,
shall appoint commissioners to succeed commissioners retiring on March 1, who
shall hold office as set out in this section. The commissioners shall hold
their office until their successors are appointed and qualified. (Ord. 4481, 5-
29-2001)
   B.   Eligibility: To be eligible for appointment to the cultural and arts
commission, a person must be at least eighteen (18) years of age and a bona
fide resident of the city, except that up to three (3) members may be bona fide
residents of Black Hawk County who reside outside the city limits. (Ord. 4970,
10-12-2009)
   C.   Organization: At its first meeting, the cultural and arts commission
shall elect a chair and a vice chair who shall serve for a one year term. The
chair shall decide on all points of order and procedure unless otherwise
directed by a majority of the commissioners in session at the time. The chair
shall appoint any standing or temporary committees necessary to carry out the
function of the commission.
   D.   Compensation: Members of the cultural and arts commission shall receive
no compensation for their services.
   E.   Vacancies: The removal of any member of the cultural and arts
commission permanently from the city, or his absence from three (3) consecutive
meetings of the commission, except in case of sickness or temporary absence
from the city, without due explanation, shall render his office as a member
vacant.
Vacancies occurring on the commission shall be filled by the mayor in the same
manner as regular appointments, which appointment shall be to fill out the
unexpired term for which the appointment is made. (Ord. 4341, 2-22-1999)
2-8-3: MEETINGS:
   A.   Record Of Proceedings: The cultural and arts commission shall keep a
record of its proceedings. (Ord. 4341, 2-22-1999)
   B.   Quorum: A quorum for purposes of any meeting of the cultural and arts
commission shall be six (6) of the eleven (11) members appointed. (Ord. 4481,
5-29-2001)
2-8-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The cultural and arts commissioners shall have the following duties:
   A.   To assist with the evaluation of community needs and review plans
presented by the director of the cultural and arts commission for future
cultural and arts activities, programs and facilities to address those needs.
   B.   To advise and recommend to the mayor and city council on all matters
relating to the cultural and arts commission.
   C.   To review and recommend on the annual budget.
   D.   To raise or assist with the raising of funds for the purpose and
benefit of the mission of this commission. (Ord. 4341, 2-22-1999)
2-8-5: GRANTS, GIFTS AND DONATIONS:
All grants, gifts, donations or payments whatsoever which are received by the
city for the benefit of the cultural and arts commission or by said commission,
shall be disbursed as determined by the director of the cultural and arts
commission. (Ord. 4341, 2-22-1999)
CHAPTER 9
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-9-1: Commission Created
2-9-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby created and established, as provided in Iowa Code section
303.34, a historic preservation commission to carry out the purposes and to
exercise the powers and duties as set forth in title 9, chapter 8 of this code.
(Ord. 5057, 7-11-2011)
CHAPTER 10
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-10-1: Commission Created
2-10-2: Composition And Membership
2-10-3: Meetings
2-10-4: Confidentiality Issues
2-10-5: Powers And Duties
2-10-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby established in the city government a commission to be known as
the commission on human rights, which commission shall consist of nine (9)
members broadly representative of the community. Members of said commission
shall be appointed by the mayor and confirmed by the city council. (Ord. 5064,
8-1-2011)
2-10-2: COMPOSITION AND MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Of the members first appointed, three (3) shall be appointed for one
year, four (4) shall be appointed for two (2) years and three (3) shall be
appointed for three (3) years; thereafter all appointments shall be for three
(3) years. No member of said commission shall serve more than two (2)
consecutive terms and shall not be reappointed to a third term unless said
member has not served on any board or commission of the city for a minimum of
one year before reappointment to any board or commission; except a third term
may be approved upon extraordinary circumstances and unavailability of
applicants.
   B.   The commission shall elect a chair and vice chair from the members of
the commission.
   C.   All members of the commission shall serve without compensation, but
shall be reimbursed for necessary travel and other expenses, out of the funds
appropriated for the commission. (Ord. 4145, 1-8-1996)
   D.   The mayor, subject to approval by the city council, shall appoint an
executive director who shall not be a member of the commission. The executive
director and the commission staff shall be compensated in such amounts as may
be fixed by the city council. Additional personnel may be hired as is deemed
necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter consistent with the funds
appropriated for that purpose and any gifts or grants which the commission may
receive from other sources. (Ord. 4064, 1-3-1995)
2-10-3: MEETINGS:
   A.   All meetings of the commission shall be held in accordance with Iowa
Code chapter 21.
   B.   Any five (5) members shall constitute a quorum, except when membership
on the commission falls below nine (9), in which case a quorum shall be the
majority of those serving.
   C.   All records of the commission shall be in compliance with the
requirements of Iowa Code chapter 22. (Ord. 4064, 1-3-1995; amd. Ord. 4145, 1-
8-1996; Ord. 5064, 8-1-2011)
2-10-4: CONFIDENTIALITY ISSUES:
No member of the commission or its staff shall disclose the filing of a
complaint, the information gathered during the investigation, or the endeavors
to eliminate such discriminatory or unfair practice by conference, conciliation
or persuasion, unless such disclosure is made in connection with the conduct of
an investigation or after public hearing is scheduled or district court action
is commenced upon a complaint filed as provided in title 5, chapter 3 of this
code. This section does not prevent any complainant, respondent, witness or
other person involved in the matter complained of from disclosing information
known to them, provided that such person is not a member of the commission or
its staff. Any violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine not to
exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 4871, 5-29-2007)
2-10-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   To hold meetings at intervals of not less than once per month at a time
and place to be determined by the commission.
   B.   To prescribe the duties of a director and such investigators and other
employees and agents as the commission shall deem necessary for the enforcement
of this chapter.
   C.   To receive, investigate and finally determine the merits of complaints
alleging unfair or discriminatory practices.
   D.   To investigate and study the existence, character, causes and extent of
discrimination in public accommodations, employment, apprenticeship programs,
on the job training programs, vocational schools, extension of credit, real
estate, financial transactions and housing in this city and to attempt the
elimination of such discrimination by education and conciliation. (Ord. 4064,
1-3-1995)
   E.   To subpoena books, papers, records and any other real evidence
necessary to the investigation of any complaint filed pursuant to this chapter.
As further set forth below, the commission may also subpoena persons for
testimony after notice of hearing has been issued.
      1.   The executive director, or designee, shall issue subpoenas.
      2.   Before a subpoena is sought to determine whether the agency should
institute a contested case proceeding, the commission staff shall make a
request in written form to the person having possession of the requested
material or real evidence. The written request shall be hand delivered by a
member of the commission staff or sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested. Where a person fails to provide requested information a subpoena for
the information may be issued.
A subpoena may be issued not less than seven (7) days after the written request
has been delivered to the person having possession of the requested materials.
Subpoenas may be issued without prior oral or written requests where notice of
a pending public hearing has been issued.
      3.   Every subpoena shall state the name of the commission, the purpose
for which the subpoena is issued and the name and address of the party on whose
behalf it was issued.
      4.   The subpoena shall be directed to a specific person, or their
attorney, or an officer, partner or managing agent of any person who is not a
natural person. The subpoena shall command that person to produce designated
books, papers or other real evidence under his or her control at a specified
time and place. Where a public hearing has been scheduled, the subpoena may
command the person to whom it is directed to attend and give testimony
concerning such records and evidence either before or at the hearing.
      5.   The subpoena shall be served either by personal service or by an
official authorized by law to serve subpoenas or by any member of the
commission staff by delivery of a copy thereof to the person named therein.
      6.   Where service is accomplished by personal service, proof of service
will be acknowledgment of receipt by the person served or by the affidavit of
the person serving the subpoena.
      7.   Upon prompt petition by the person to whom the subpoena is
addressed, the executive director or designee may quash or modify a subpoena
where it is demonstrated by the petitioner that reasonable cause exists to
quash said subpoena.
      8.   Where a party fails to respond to a subpoena, the executive director
or designee may authorize the filing of a petition for enforcement with the
district court.
      9.   Subsequent to notification to a respondent of the approval of a
hearing upon the merits of complaint, legal counsel, staff and respondent may
employ prehearing discovery measures set forth in the Iowa administrative
procedure act, in addition to oral interviews and informal requests for
documents and other materials and information, and subpoenas may issue for
testimony of witnesses in furtherance of discovery and investigative purposes.
The subpoena may require the person to attend to give testimony either before
or at the hearing. (Ord. 5076, 9-19-2011)
   F.   To hold hearings upon any complaint made against a person, an employer,
an employment agency, or a labor organization, or the employees or members
thereof, to subpoena witnesses and compel their attendance at such hearings, to
administer oaths and take the testimony of any person under oath, and to compel
such persons, employer, employment agency or labor organization, or employees
or members thereof, to produce for examination any books and papers relating to
any matter involved in such complaint. The commission shall issue subpoenas for
witnesses in the same manner and for the same purposes on behalf of the
respondent upon his request. Such hearings may be held by the commission or by
any hearing officer appointed by the commission.
   G.   To take the necessary remedial action, as to the judgment of the
commission, to carry out the purposes of this chapter. For purposes of this
subsection and pursuant to the provisions of this chapter "remedial action"
includes, but is not limited to, the following:
      1.   Hiring, reinstatement or upgrading.
      2.   Admission or restoration of individuals to programs, and admission
to a public accommodation or an educational institution.
      3.   Sale, exchange, lease, rental, assignment or sublease of real
property to an individual.
      4.   Payment to the complainant of damages for an injury caused by the
discriminatory or unfair practice which damages shall include, but are not
limited to, actual damages, court cost and reasonable attorney fees, and the
issuance of an order requiring the respondent to cease and desist from said
practice.
      5.   Reporting as to the manner of compliance.
      6.   Posting notices in conspicuous places in the respondent's place of
business in form prescribed by the commission and inclusion of notice in
advertising material.
      7.   In addition to the remedies provided in the preceding provisions of
this subsection, the commission may issue an order requiring the respondent to
cease and desist from the discriminatory or unfair practice and to take such
affirmative action as in the judgment of the commission will carry out the
purposes of this section as follows:
         a.   In the case of a respondent operating by virtue of a license
issued by the state or a political subdivision or agency, if the commission,
upon notice to the respondent with an opportunity to be heard, determines that
the respondent has engaged in a discriminatory or unfair practice and that the
practice was authorized, requested, commanded, performed or knowingly or
recklessly tolerated by the board of directors of the respondent or by an
officer or executive agent acting within the scope of his employment, the
commission shall so certify to the licensing agency. Where the licensing agency
derives all or part of its authority from this city, it shall be bound by the
commission finding, unless it is reversed in the course of judicial review. In
the case of such a municipal licensing agency, where such a certification has
been made, the licensing agency may initiate licensee disciplinary procedures.
         b.   In the case of a respondent who is found by the commission to
have engaged in a discriminatory or unfair practice in the course of performing
under a contract or subcontract with the state or political subdivision or
agency, if the practice was authorized, requested, commanded, performed or
knowingly or recklessly tolerated by the board of directors of the respondent
or by an officer or executive agent acting within the scope of his employment,
the commission shall so certify to the contracting agency. The finding of
discrimination is binding on that contracting authority, unless the
commission's finding of a discriminatory or unfair practice is reversed in the
course of judicial review.
         c.   Upon receiving a certification made under this chapter, a
contracting authority may take appropriate action to terminate a contract or
portion thereof previously entered into with the respondent, either absolutely
or on condition that the respondent carry out a program of compliance with
provisions of this chapter; and assist the state and all political subdivisions
and agencies thereof to refrain from entering into further contracts.
      8.   The election of an affirmative order under subsection G7 of this
section shall not bar the election of affirmative remedies provided in
subsections G1 through G6 of this section. The terms of a conciliation
agreement reached with the respondent may require him to refrain in the future
from committing discriminatory or unfair practices of the type stated in the
agreement, to take remedial action as in the judgment of the commission will
carry out the purposes of this chapter and to consent to the entry in an
appropriate district court of a consent decree embodying the terms of the
conciliation agreement. Violation of such a consent decree may be punished as
contempt by the court upon a showing by the commission of the violation at any
time within six (6) months of its occurrence. In all cases where a conciliation
agreement is entered into, the commission shall issue an order stating its
terms and furnish a copy of the order to such persons as the commission deems
proper. At any time in its discretion, the commission may investigate whether
the terms of the agreement are being complied with by the respondent.
   H.   To seek a temporary injunction against a respondent when it appears
that a complainant may suffer irreparable injury as a result of an alleged
violation of this chapter. In the event said respondent is the recipient of, or
engaged in any program or activity through grants, loans, contracts or
insurance from any federal or state agency, the commission shall seek to enjoin
said federal or state agency, on a temporary basis, from further engagement
with said respondent.
A temporary injunction may only be sought ex parte, if the complaint filed with
the commission alleges discrimination in housing. In all other cases a
temporary injunction may be issued only after the respondent has been notified
and afforded the opportunity to be heard. (Ord. 4064, 1-3-1995)
   I.   To issue such publications and reports of investigations and research
as in the judgment of the commission shall tend to promote goodwill among the
various racial, religious, ethnic and other groups within the city and which
shall tend to minimize or eliminate discrimination in public accommodations,
employment, apprenticeship and on the job training programs, vocational
schools, housing or credit because of race, creed, color, sex, sexual
orientation, gender identity, national origin, religion, disability or age.
(Ord. 4891, 11-13-2007)
   J.   To prepare and transmit to the mayor and to the city council from time
to time, but not less often than once each year, reports describing its
proceedings, investigations, hearings conducted and the outcome thereof,
decisions rendered and the other work performed by the commission.
   K.   To make recommendations to the mayor and city council for such further
legislation as may be necessary and desirable, and to adopt, publish, amend and
rescind regulations consistent with and necessary for the enforcement of this
chapter. (Ord. 4064, 1-3-1995)
   L.   To cooperate, within the limits of any appropriations made for its
operation, with other agencies or organizations, both public and private, whose
purposes are consistent with those of this chapter and in the planning and
conducting of programs designed to eliminate discrimination based on race,
color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender
identity, disability or age. (Ord. 4891, 11-13-2007)
   M.   To receive, administer, dispense and account for any funds that may be
voluntarily contributed to the commission and any grants that may be awarded
the commission for furthering the purposes of this chapter.
   N.   To enter into contracts with federal and state civil rights agencies
which would further the purposes of this chapter.
   O.   To enter into contracts with federal and state civil rights agencies
which would further the purposes of this chapter and seek from the equal
employment opportunity commission, housing and urban development, the U.S. and
Iowa civil rights commission, the designation as a deferral agency, which shall
have legal precedence in all cases in its jurisdiction, except where otherwise
agreed, or where a complainant requests in written form that the deferral
agency not be notified. (Ord. 4064, 1-3-1995)
CHAPTER 11
MEMORIAL HALL COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-11-1: Commission Created
2-11-2: Composition And Membership
2-11-3: Gifts And Bequests
2-11-4: Use Of Building
2-11-5: Powers And Duties
2-11-6:    Severability
2-11-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby created and established, as provided for in Iowa Code section
392.1, a memorial hall commission which shall organize, supervise, manage and
have charge of the Veterans Memorial Hall located at 1915 Courbat Court in the
city. (Ord. 4236, 6-23-1997; amd. Ord. 5672, 11-21-2022)
2-11-2: COMPOSITION AND MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Appointment; Qualifications: The memorial hall commission shall consist
of a minimum of five (5) and no more than fifteen (15) members, as dictated by
the organization's Charter and Constitution. Applicants shall be approved by
the mayor, and a majority of the city council. Each commissioner must be a
member of one of the commission's designated organizations.
   B.   Terms: Commission members shall serve for a term of three (3) years and
subsequent appointments shall also be for a term of three (3) years. Vacancies
shall be filled in the same manner as original appointments.
   C.   Compensation: Members of the memorial hall commission shall serve
without compensation.
   D.   Chair: The mayor shall appoint from among the commission members a
chair of said commission, who shall serve for a three (3) year term, and any
subsequent replacements shall be appointed by the mayor. (Ord. 4266, 11-17-
1997; amd. Ord. 4538, 2-4-2002; Ord. 5672, 11-21-2022)
2-11-3: GIFTS AND BEQUESTS:
Gifts and bequests to the city or to the commission, for any purposes provided
in this chapter, may be accepted and the property shall be used in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter, and as may be expressly designated by the
memorial hall commission and/or the donor. (Ord. 4236, 6-23-1997; amd. Ord.
5672, 11-21-2022)
2-11-4: USE OF BUILDING:
The Veterans Memorial Hall building shall be available, so far as practical,
for appropriate purposes, approved by the memorial hall commission, under the
control and regulation established under the memorial hall commission's Charter
and Constitution.
The term, "Veterans Memorial Hall" as provided in this chapter, shall also mean
and include such parking grounds, buildings or facilities to be used for
purposes consistent with the uses set out in this section. (Ord. 4236, 6-23-
1997; amd. Ord. 5672, 11-21-2022)
2-11-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
Subject to any limitations in state or local law, the memorial hall commission
may exercise the following powers in fulfillment of its duties:
   A.   Enter into agreements on behalf of the Veterans Memorial Hall, subject
to approval of the city council.
   B.   Adopt rules to govern those matters within the scope of the
commission's powers and duties, and prescribe penalties for any violations
thereof. Any rules or penalties shall be subject to the approval of the city
council.
   C.   Take such other action as it deems necessary and which falls within the
scope of its purpose to organize, supervise, manage and have charge of the
Veterans Memorial Hall. (Ord. 4236, 6-23-1997; amd. Ord. 5672, 11-21-2022)
2-11-6: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, provision or part of this chapter shall be adjudged invalid or
unconstitutional, such adjudication shall not affect the validity of this
chapter as a whole or any section, provision or part thereof not adjudged
invalid or unconstitutional. (Ord. 5672, 11-21-2022)
CHAPTER 12
WATERWORKS BOARD
SECTION:
2-12-1: Board Created
2-12-2: Terms
2-12-1: BOARD CREATED:
The waterworks board is hereby established pursuant to Iowa Code section 388.3.
(Ord. 4145, 1-8-1996)
2-12-2: TERMS:
Members shall be appointed to six (6) year staggered terms as provided in Iowa
Code section 388.3. However, no member of said board shall serve more than two
(2) consecutive terms and shall not be reappointed to a third term unless said
member has not served on any board or commission of the city for a minimum of
one year before reappointment to any board or commission; except a third term
may be approved upon extraordinary circumstances and unavailability of
applicants. (Ord. 4145, 1-8-1996)
CHAPTER 13
CABLE TV COMMISSION 1
SECTION:
2-13-1: Commission Established
2-13-2: Duties
 
Notes
1 1. See title 3, chapter 7 of this code.
2-13-1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED:
The mayor, with concurrence of the city council, shall appoint a Waterloo cable
TV commission consisting of seven (7) citizens of Waterloo to serve without
pay. All appointments shall be for a term of three (3) years. No member to said
commission shall serve more than two (2) consecutive terms and shall not be
reappointed to a third term unless said member has not served on any board or
commission of the city of Waterloo for a minimum of one year before
reappointment to any board or commission; except a third term may be approved
under extraordinary circumstances and unavailability of applicants. (Ord. 4814,
5-15-2006)
2-13-2: DUTIES:
The duties of this commission shall be:
   A.   To observe the operations of the grantee and make recommendations to
the city council concerning cable television operations;
   B.   To review and evaluate all programming to be provided by the grantee.
(Ord. 4814, 5-15-2006)
CHAPTER 14
HOUSING AUTHORITY BOARD
SECTION:
2-14-1: Housing Authority Created
2-14-2: Composition And Membership
2-14-3: Powers And Duties
2-14-4: Appropriations
2-14-5: Housing Director
2-14-1: HOUSING AUTHORITY CREATED:
The housing authority board (hereinafter the "board") of the city of Waterloo
is hereby created. (Ord. 4530, 12-3-2001)
2-14-2: COMPOSITION AND MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Composition: The board shall consist of one resident from each of the
section 8 and public housing programs; and all members of the city council for
a total of nine (9) board members. The two (2) members from the public housing
authority (PHA residents) shall be appointed by the mayor subject to approval
of a majority of the city council.
   B.   Term Of Office: Resident members of the section 8 and public housing
program shall serve two (2) year terms. No resident member of said board shall
serve more than two (2) consecutive terms and shall not be reappointed to a
third term unless the member has not served on any board or commission of the
city for a minimum of one year before he/she is reappointed to any board or
commission.
   C.   Filling Vacancies: If any member from the board shall leave for any
reason, the mayor shall appoint a successor subject to approval of the city
council.
   D.   Compensation: All members of the board shall serve without compensation
except for their actual expenses, which shall be subject to approval of a
majority of the board.
   E.   Organization: The Waterloo housing authority shall annually elect, at
its first regular meeting held in the month of July, one of its members to act
as chair of the board, and another member as vice chair, who shall perform all
of the duties of the chair during her/his absence, and a third member as
secretary.
   F.   Rules And Regulations: The board shall adopt such rules and regulations
governing its organization and procedures, as may be required by local, state
and federal laws.
   G.   Committees: The board may establish any committee deemed necessary for
the execution of its powers or duties as permitted by local, state and federal
laws.
   H.   Unexcused Absences: Any board member who misses more than three (3)
consecutive meetings without a legitimate excuse may be recommended by the
executive committee (chair, vice chair and secretary) to the mayor for removal.
(Ord. 4530, 12-3-2001)
2-14-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the board to provide and coordinate the federally
subsidized public housing programs. All powers and responsibilities, including
the signatory authority of the annual contributions contract shall vest with
the board. Actions taken by the board shall be final and not subject to
administrative review. The board shall implement policies to effect its duties.
(Ord. 4530, 12-3-2001)
2-14-4: APPROPRIATIONS:
The board shall have full, complete and exclusive authority to make decisions
relating to the administration, operation, operating budget (including salaries
and wages), and management of federal public housing programs and section 8
tenant based rental assistance programs and to expend for and on behalf of such
public housing authority all sums of money so appropriated. All such
expenditures shall be made pursuant to and in conformance with the board's
established policies and procedures. The board shall have no power to contract
debts beyond its budget set for the fiscal year in which the debt is to be
paid. (Ord. 4530, 12-3-2001)
2-14-5: HOUSING DIRECTOR:
   A.   Appointment: A housing director shall be appointed by the city planner
and subject to approval of a majority of the board. Such appointment shall be
in accordance with all city policies and procedures as to recruitment,
selection, and appointment of employees. However, the housing director shall
not be subject to civil service laws.
   B.   Absence Of Housing Director: Whenever the housing director shall be out
of the city, or unable to act for any reason (including those periods of time
when the city planner has not appointed a housing director), the city planner
may appoint a designee who may exercise all powers and duties of the housing
director.
   C.   Management, Supervision And Duties: The housing director shall
supervise, direct and manage the housing authority. The director's duties shall
be as follows:
      1.   To promulgate orders, rules and regulations for the conduct and
guidance of the members of the housing authority within the parameters of city
policy;
      2.   To make an annual report of the activities of the housing authority
for each year, and which shall be filed with the board;
      3.   To hire, train and assign the personnel of the housing authority as
deemed necessary to carry out the functions of the housing authority, and to
prescribe rules and regulations for the conduct and management of the
department consistent with the city's policies;
      4.   To discipline, suspend or discharge any subordinate under her/his
direction for just cause pursuant to city policy, or in accordance with
applicable laws;
      5.   To perform or cause to be performed any other duties as directed by
the city planner and which is permitted by local, state or federal laws;
      6.   To actively investigate, procure and manage those newly authorized
housing programs available through federal or state grants and contracts deemed
by the housing authority to be in the best interest of the city;
      7.   To supervise and manage the city's housing programs including the
section 8 existing housing certificates program, section 8 housing voucher
program, public housing development, modernization and management, and others
as they become available;
      8.   To administer the housing authority's programs, prepare policies and
budgets for approval by the board where required, assign staff, determine
schedules and review progress on the programs;
      9.   To supervise and coordinate development and implementation of the
city's public housing programs in cooperation with other departments and
agencies to the mutual advantage of the housing programs and the city;
      10.   To act as technical advisor on public housing management and
development matters to the board or other committees designated by the board to
appear, in person or by her/his designee before the city council to report or
advise on housing matters and housing development/management techniques being
utilized in other communities;
      11.   To coordinate and review work performed by professionals and
contractors retained by the housing authority to perform services, construction
or studies as required by the housing authority;
      12.   To work with federal, state and adjoining local governments in
implementing the Waterloo housing authority's programs;
      13.   To perform other duties necessary to carry out the purposes of the
section 8/public housing program and any other housing programs of the city of
Waterloo. (Ord. 4530, 12-3-2001)
CHAPTER 15
ADA COMPLIANCE COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-15-1: Commission Created
2-15-2: Composition And Membership
2-15-3: Gifts And Bequests
2-15-4: Meeting Space
2-15-5: Powers And Duties
2-15-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby created and established an ADA compliance commission (Americans
with disabilities act compliance commission) which shall implement and monitor
compliance to the Americans with disabilities act. (Ord. 4672, 2-23-2004)
2-15-2: COMPOSITION AND MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Appointment; Qualifications: The ADA compliance commission shall
consist of nine (9) members, who shall be appointed by the mayor, subject to
approval by the city council. The majority of the commission will endeavor to
be made up of people affected by disabilities.
   B.   Terms: Commission members shall serve for a term of three (3) years.
Three (3) commissioners shall be appointed for a term of three (3) years,
expiring January 1, 2007; three (3) commissioners shall be appointed for a term
of two (2) years, expiring January 1, 2006; and three (3) commissioners shall
be appointed for a term of one year, expiring January 1, 2005, or in each
instance until a successor is appointed. All subsequent appointments shall be
for a term of three (3) years. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as
original appointments. No member of said commission shall serve more than two
(2) consecutive terms; except if one or more additional terms may be approved
upon extraordinary circumstances and unavailability of applicants.
   C.   Rules; Meetings; General Procedure: The commission shall adopt rules in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Meetings of the commission
shall be held at the call of the chairman and at such other times as the
commission may determine. All meetings of the commission shall be open to the
public. The commission shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote
of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating
such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official
actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the
commission and shall be a public record.
   D.   Compensation: Members of the ADA compliance commission shall serve
without compensation.
   E.   Ex Officio Member: The building official or an appointed designee shall
be an ex officio nonvoting member of the commission. (Ord. 4672, 2-23-2004)
2-15-3: GIFTS AND BEQUESTS:
Gifts and bequests to the city or to the commission, for any purposes provided
in this chapter, may be accepted and the property shall be used in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter, and as may be expressly designated by the
mayor and/or city council and the donor. (Ord. 4672, 2-23-2004)
2-15-4: MEETING SPACE:
   A.   The city shall provide a meeting space for the commission at the
commission's request, during regular business hours (8:00 A.M. – 5:00 P.M.).
All rooms provided shall be handicap accessible.
   B.   The building inspection department shall provide staff support to the
commission. (Ord. 4672, 2-23-2004)
2-15-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The ADA compliance commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   The commission may in appropriate cases and subject to appropriate
conditions and safeguards make determinations of what are reasonable
accommodations in public buildings. The ADA compliance commission shall have a
public hearing on said determination.
   B.   The commission may authorize, in specific cases, interpretation of the
terms of the Americans with disabilities act as will not be contrary to the
public interest where owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of the act will result in undue hardship and so that the spirit of
the act shall be observed and substantial justice done.
   C.   Assist in the implementation/monitoring of the city of Waterloo
transition plan to bring city of Waterloo buildings into compliance with the
Americans with disabilities act.
   D.   City of Waterloo policies and programs that require application of the
Americans with disabilities act of 1990 shall be reviewed by the ADA commission
and recommendation be made to the mayor and city council on compliance or
noncompliance.
   E.   The ADA commission shall recommend to the mayor and city council
correction to any policy or program to bring the policy or program into
compliance with the Americans with disabilities act of 1990.
   F.   Policies and programs as applicable to titles 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the
Americans with disabilities act of 1990 shall be reviewed and monitored by the
ADA compliance commission.
   G.   Establish and monitor a grievance procedure that will abate all ADA
complaints on a local level. When requested, the commission will provide a
grievance mediation on a case by case basis. (Ord. 4672, 2-23-2004)
CHAPTER 16
TELECOMMUNICATIONS BOARD
SECTION:
2-16-1: Board Created
2-16-2: Membership; Appointment Of Member
2-16-3: Qualifications Of Members
2-16-4: Term Of Office
2-16-5: Vacancies
2-16-6: Powers And Duties; Generally
2-16-1: BOARD CREATED:
There is hereby created and established a telecommunications board to operate
the city telecommunications utility. The title of the utility board shall be
the board of trustees of the municipal telecommunications utility of the city
(hereinafter "board of trustees"). (Ord. 4796, 12-12-2005)
2-16-2: MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT OF MEMBER:
A board of trustees of the telecommunications utility shall consist of five (5)
members. All said trustees shall be appointed by the mayor with the approval of
the council. (Ord. 4796, 12-12-2005)
2-16-3: QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS:
All of the members of the board of trustees shall be bona fide citizens and
residents of the city, and shall be over the age of eighteen (18). (Ord. 4796,
12-12-2005)
2-16-4: TERM OF OFFICE:
All appointments of the board of trustees shall be for six (6) years, except to
fill vacancies. Each term shall commence on January 1. Said appointments shall
be made for staggered six (6) year terms, except that the terms of trustees
appointed to the initial board shall be as follows: one trustee shall be
appointed for a term of six (6) years, expiring January 1, 2012; one trustee
shall be appointed for a term of five (5) years, expiring January 1, 2011; one
trustee shall be appointed for a term of four (4) years, expiring January 1,
2010; one trustee shall be appointed for a term of three (3) years, expiring
January 1, 2009; and one trustee shall be appointed for a term of two (2)
years, expiring January 1, 2008. All subsequent appointments shall be for a
term of six (6) years. No member of the board shall serve more than two (2)
consecutive terms and shall not be reappointed to a third term unless said
member has not served on the board for a minimum of one year before
reappointment, except that a third term may be approved upon extraordinary
circumstances and unavailability of qualified applicants. (Ord. 4796, 12-12-
2005)
2-16-5: VACANCIES:
The position of any trustee of the board of trustees shall be deemed vacant if
he or she moves permanently from the city. Vacancies in the board shall be
filled by appointment of the mayor, with the approval of the council, and the
newly appointed trustee shall fill out the unexpired term for which the
appointment is made. (Ord. 4796, 12-12-2005)
2-16-6: POWERS AND DUTIES; GENERALLY:
   A.   The board of trustees may exercise all powers of the city in relation
to the communication utility, subject to chapter 388 of the Iowa Code as
amended from time to time and subject to the following exceptions:
      1.   The board may not certify taxes to be levied, pass ordinances or
amendments, or issue general obligation or special assessment bonds.
      2.   The title to all property of a city utility or combined utility
system must be held in the name of the city, but the utility board has all the
powers and authorities of the city with respect to the acquisition or
disposition of such property, and the management, control and operation of the
same, subject to the requirements, terms, covenants, conditions and provisions
of any resolutions authorizing the issuance of revenue bonds, pledge orders, or
other obligations which are payable from the revenues of the city utility or
combined utility system, and which are then outstanding.
      3.   The board shall make to the council a detailed annual report,
including a complete financial statement.
      4.   Immediately following a regular or special meeting of the board, the
secretary shall prepare a condensed statement of the proceedings of the board
and cause the statement to be published in a newspaper of general circulation
in the city. The statement must include a list of all claims allowed, showing
the name of the person or firm making the claim, the reason for the claim, and
the amount of the claim. Salary claims must show the gross amount of the claim
except that salaries paid to persons regularly employed by the utility for
services regularly performed by them, must be published once annually showing
the gross amount of the salary.
      5.   The city attorney shall be chief legal counsel for the board.
      6.   To facilitate public access to the activities of the board, the
board shall hold its meetings and locate its administrative offices in city
hall or such other space in city facilities as may be designated for such
purposes by the city council.
   B.   The board of trustees shall control revenues allocated to the
communication utility and all monies derived from the operation of the utility,
the sale of utility property, interest on investments, or from other sources
related to the utility. All city utility monies received must be held in a
separate utility fund, with a separate account or accounts for each utility.
(Ord. 4796, 12-12-2005)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
License And Business Regulations   1
Liquor Control   2
Amusements   3
Roller Skating Rinks   3A
Public Dances And Dance Halls   3B
Businesses Relating To Sales   4
Pawnbrokers   4A
Secondhand Goods Dealers   4B
Peddlers, Solicitors And Transient Merchants   4C
Solicitation Of Funds   4D
Distress Sales   4E
Mobile Food Business   4F
Sidewalk Café   4G
Parklet   4H
Businesses Relating To Vehicles   5
Ambulances (Rep. by Ord. 5255, 11-17-2014)   5A
Taxicabs And Limousines   5B
Commercial Towing Firms   5C
Alarm Systems   6
Cable TV Franchise Regulations   7
Shared Mobility Device License   8
Billposters   9
Recycling Yards   10
Rendering Works   11
CHAPTER 1
LICENSE AND BUSINESS REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Licenses Required
3-1-2: Application For License
3-1-3: License Term
3-1-4: Auctioneers
3-1-5: Fortune Telling And Similar Practices
3-1-1: LICENSES REQUIRED:
Any person who shall carry on or engage in or attempt to carry on or engage in
any occupations, professions or trades for which a license is required, or who
shall own, operate or control any exhibitions, entertainments, games or
amusements for which a license is required, without first procuring the license
therefor and complying with all other regulations pertinent thereto, shall be
deemed guilty of an offense, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as
provided in section
1-3-1 of this code. (Rev. Ord. 1540, Comp. 1941, p. L-4)
3-1-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any person desiring a license from the city for any of the purposes where
required in this code shall make application therefor to the city clerk on a
blank furnished for that purpose, and upon payment of the license fee provided
for herein, the city clerk shall issue to such person the proper license, which
license shall be countersigned by the mayor before the same shall be valid.
(Rev. Ord. 1540, Comp. 1941, p. L-4; amd. Ord. 2546, 10-26-1970)
3-1-3: LICENSE TERM:
All licenses issued pursuant to this code shall expire on May 1 each year.
Licenses for which an annual fee is charged will be issued for one-half (1/2)
the annual fee after November 1, unless specific provisions state otherwise.
(Rev. Ord. 1540, Comp. 1941, p. L-4)
3-1-4: AUCTIONEERS:
No person shall carry on or engage in the business of an auctioneer in the city
without first procuring a license and paying the following fees:
 
Per year                     $25.00
Per month or portion thereof 10.00
 
(Rev. Ord. 1540, Comp. 1941, p. L-4)
3-1-5: FORTUNE TELLING AND SIMILAR PRACTICES:
No person shall carry on or engage in the business or profession of a
clairvoyant, palmist, fortune teller, mind reader or phrenologist in the city
without first procuring a license therefor and paying a license fee as follows:
 
Per day   $ 3.00
Per week  15.00
Per month 50.00
Per year  300.00
 
(Rev. Ord. 1540, Comp. 1941, p. L-4)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR CONTROL 1
SECTION:
3-2-1: Purpose
3-2-2: Definitions
3-2-3: Eligibility For Liquor Control License Or Beer Permit
3-2-4: Application For License Or Permit
3-2-5: License And Permit Terms; Seasonal Permits
3-2-6: Conditions Of License Or Permit
3-2-7: Refunds
3-2-8: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
3-2-9: Prohibited Acts Involving Minors
3-2-10: Suspension And Revocation
3-2-11: Penalties
 
Notes
1 1. IC §§ 123.1 et seq., 124.1 et seq.
3-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide administration of licenses and
permits and for local regulations and procedures for the conduct of the sale
and consumption of beer and liquor, for the protection of the safety, morals
and general welfare of this community. (Ord. 2584, 12-27-1971)
3-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
Where words and phrases used in this chapter are defined by state law, such
definitions shall apply to their use in this chapter and are adopted by
reference. Those definitions so adopted that need further definition or are
reiterated, and other words and phrases used herein, shall have the following
meanings:
CLUB: Any nonprofit corporation or association of individuals, which is the
owner, lessee or occupant of a permanent building or part thereof, membership
in which entails the prepayment of regular dues and is not operated for a
profit other than such profits as would accrue to the entire membership.
COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT: A place of business which is at all times equipped
with sufficient tables and seats to accommodate twenty five (25) persons at one
time, and the licensed premises of which conforms to the ordinances of the
city.
HOTEL OR MOTEL: A premises licensed by the state department of agriculture and
regularly or seasonally kept open in a bona fide manner for the lodging of
transient guests, and with twenty (20) or more sleeping rooms.
LEGAL AGE: The legal age as defined by state law 1 .
PERSON OF GOOD MORAL CHARACTER: Any person who meets all of the following
requirements:
   A.   He has such financial standing and good reputation as will satisfy the
city council and the director that he will comply with the Iowa alcoholic
beverage control act and all other laws, ordinances and regulations applicable
to his operations under state law.
   B.   He does not possess a federal gambling stamp.
   C.   He is not prohibited by the provisions of subsection
 3-2-10B of this chapter from obtaining a liquor license or beer permit.
   D.   Is a citizen of the United States and a resident of Iowa, or licensed
to do business in Iowa in the case of a corporation.
   E.   He has not been convicted of a felony. However, if his conviction of a
felony occurred more than five (5) years before the application for a license
or permit, and if his rights of citizenship have been restored by the governor,
the director may determine that he is a person of good moral character
notwithstanding such conviction.
   F.   If such person is a corporation, partnership, association, club or
hotel or motel, the requirements as set out in this definition shall apply to
each of the officers, directors and partners of such person, and to any person
who directly or indirectly owns or controls ten percent (10%) or more of any
class of stock of such person or has an interest of ten percent (10%) or more
in the ownership or profits of such person. For the purpose of this provision,
an individual and his spouse shall be regarded as one person. (Ord. 2584, 12-
27-1971; amd. Ord. 2699, 9-3-1974; Ord. 3529, 3-7-1988; Ord. 5127, 8-20-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 123.3.
3-2-3: ELIGIBILITY FOR LIQUOR CONTROL LICENSE OR BEER PERMIT:
Upon meeting the requirements imposed by state law and the ordinances of this
city, a person who is of good moral character, as defined by state law and this
chapter, may apply for a liquor control license or a beer permit. In the case
of a club, corporation or partnership, the officers of the club or corporation
and the partners of a partnership shall be persons of good moral character, as
defined by state law and this chapter. (Ord. 2584, 12-27-1971)
3-2-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE OR PERMIT:
   A.   Investigation Of Applicant: Upon receipt of an original application for
a liquor license or beer permit by the city clerk, it shall be forwarded to the
chief of police, who shall conduct an investigation and shall submit a written
report on the applicant as to the truth of the facts averred in the application
and a recommendation to the city council as to the approval of the license or
permit. It shall be the duty of the health inspector, the building inspector
and the fire chief to inspect the premises to determine if they conform to the
requirements of the city, and no license or permit shall be approved until or
unless an approving report has been filed with the city council by such
officers.
   B.   Civil Liability: Every liquor control licensee and class B beer
permittee shall furnish proof of financial responsibility either by the
existence of a liability insurance policy or by posting bond in such amount as
determined by the department.
   C.   Application For Renewal: Upon receipt of an application for the renewal
of a liquor license or beer permit, it shall be forwarded to the chief of
police only, who shall conduct an investigation and shall submit a written
report on the applicant as to the truth of the facts answered in the
application and a recommendation to the city council as to the approval of the
license or permit.
   D.   Action By City Council: Action taken by the city council shall be so
endorsed on the application and thereafter the application, fee and bond shall
be forwarded to the Iowa beer and liquor control department for such further
action as is provided by law. (Ord. 2584, 12-27-1971; amd. Ord. 4447, 11-13-
2000)
3-2-5: LICENSE AND PERMIT TERMS; SEASONAL PERMITS:
All liquor control licenses and beer permits, unless sooner suspended or
revoked, shall expire one year from date of issuance. Six (6) or eight (8)
month seasonal licenses or beer permits may be issued for a proportionate part
of the license or permit fee. No seasonal license or permit shall be renewed
except after a period of two (2) months. Seasonal licensing shall be only as
permitted by state regulation. (Ord. 2584, 12-27-1971)
3-2-6: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE OR PERMIT:
   A.   Investigations: An applicant for a liquor control license or beer
permit, as a further condition for approval by the city council, must give
consent in writing on the application, that members of the fire, police and
health departments and the building inspector may enter upon the premises
without warrant to inspect for violations of the provisions of state law and of
this chapter.
      1.   No liquor control license or beer permit shall be approved for
premises which do not conform to all applicable laws, ordinances, resolutions
and health and fire regulations.
      2.   No licensee shall have or maintain an interior access to residential
or sleeping quarters unless permission is granted by the state beer and liquor
control director in the form of a living quarters permit.
      3.   The premises for which a class B beer permit is sought must be
located within a business district or an area now or hereafter zoned as a
business district and conform to the zoning requirements of the city.
      4.   The premises of a class B beer permit shall, at the time of the
application, continue to be equipped with sufficient tables and seats to
accommodate twenty five (25) persons at one time.
      5.   No state liquor store shall be located within three hundred feet
(300') of a public or private educational institution unless a lesser distance
is specifically authorized by chapter.
   B.   Visibility From Licensed Premises: The licensed premises of any beer or
liquor permittee shall be clearly visible at any hour from the outside, whether
the permittee is open for business, or otherwise, and the following regulations
shall be complied with as a condition for approval by the city council:
      1.   The entrance of the licensed premises which is primarily used by
patrons shall have a door or window which provides an unobstructed view of the
main seating and/or serving area of the licensed premises with the minimum
dimensions of nine inches by nine inches (9" x 9") set into the door or window
at eye level, which shall be approximately fifty six inches (56") to sixty four
inches (64") above the ground level of the premises.
      2.   Any window presently in existence, which is mounted at eye level in
an exterior wall adjoining the seating and/or serving area, shall have a
minimum of nine inches by nine inches (9" x 9") of unobstructed view into the
licensed premises.
      3.   Any licensed premises which has the serving area located within a
permanent building whereby the main seating and/or serving area are not
immediately accessible nor visible from a public street shall have an
unobstructed opening to the main seating and/or serving area as provided in
subsections B1 and/or B2 of this section.
      4.   The required openings as provided in subsections B1 and B2 of this
section shall not be obstructed, in any fashion, to hinder clear view into the
main seating and/or serving area of the licensed premises.
      5.   The building inspector, or designee, shall be solely responsible for
the enforcement of these provisions. Upon inspection, notice of noncompliance
shall be sent to the holder of the liquor license or beer permit and to the
city clerk for appropriate action in accordance with this section.
      6.   Compliance by the licensee with the terms and conditions of this
subsection shall occur within thirty (30) days from the effective date of this
section or no later than the time of the renewal of the beer or liquor license,
whichever last occurs. Failure to timely comply may result in suspension or
revocation of the liquor license in accordance with this chapter.
   C.   Separate Locations For Class B Or C: Every person holding a class B or
class C permit having more than one place of business where such beer is sold
shall be required to have a separate license for each separate place of
business, except as otherwise prohibited by state law.
   D.   Nature Of License Or Permit: A liquor control license or beer permit
shall be a purely personal privilege and be revocable for cause. It shall not
constitute property, nor be subject to attachment and execution nor be
alienable nor assignable, and in any case it shall cease upon the death of the
permittee or licensee. However, the director may, in his discretion, allow the
executor or administrator of a permittee or licensee to operate the business of
the decedent for a reasonable time not to exceed the expiration date of the
permit or license. Every permit or license shall be issued in the name of the
applicant and no person holding a permit or license shall allow any other
person to use same.
   E.   Transfers: The city council will, in its discretion, authorize a
licensee or permittee to transfer the license or permit from one location to
another within the city, provided that the premises to which the transfer is to
be made would have been eligible for a license or permit in the first instance
and such transfer will not result in the violation of any law or ordinance.
(Ord. 2584, 12-27-1971; amd. Ord. 3494, 7-13-1987)
   F.   Drive-Up Windows; Signage: Each licensed or permitted premises equipped
with a drive-through or walk-up window or any similar drive-up or drive-in
system must conspicuously post and maintain a sign upon such window or system
or upon the remote ordering system on the premises that contains the following
statement in bold characters no less than one inch (1") in height: "Alcohol
Sales From Drive-Up Prohibited". A grocery store or a pharmacy operating in
compliance with subsection 10-27-1(Q)(2)(a) of the zoning regulations is exempt
from this requirement.
   G.   Drive-Up Windows; Violations: Any licensee or permittee who sells or
dispenses alcoholic beverages via a drive-through or walk-up window or any
similar drive-up or drive-in system in violation of title 10 of this code shall
be guilty of a violation of this section. In addition to any penalties
prescribed by this chapter, the licensee or permittee shall, upon conviction,
obtain a building permit and proceed to permanently close said window or
opening and shall finish the exterior of the work to conform in materials and
appearance as closely as reasonably possible to the remainder of the exterior
of the premises, within ninety (90) days of conviction of such violation. (Ord.
5127, 8-20-2012)
3-2-7: REFUNDS:
Any such licensee or permittee, or his executor, administrator, or any person
duly appointed by the court to take charge of and administer the property or
assets of the licensee or permittee for the benefit of his creditors, may
voluntarily surrender such license or permit to the department and when so
surrendered the department shall notify the city, and the department and the
city, or the city itself in the case of a retail beer permit, shall refund to
the person so surrendering the license or permit a proportionate amount of the
fee paid for such license or permit as follows: if surrendered during the first
three (3) months of the period for which said license or permit was issued, the
refund shall be three-fourths (3/4) of the amount of the fee; if surrendered
more than three (3) months but not more than six (6) months after issuance, the
refund shall be one-half (1/2) of the amount of the fee; if surrendered more
than six (6) months but not more than nine (9) months after issuance, the
refund shall be one-fourth (1/4) of the amount of the fee. No refund shall be
made, however, for a liquor control license or beer permit surrendered more
than nine (9) months after issuance. No refund shall be made to any licensee or
permittee, upon the surrender of his license or permit, if there is at the time
of said surrender a complaint filed with the department or the city, charging
him with a violation of this chapter or provisions of the Iowa beer and liquor
control act. If upon hearing on any such complaint the license or permit is not
revoked or suspended, then the licensee or permittee shall be eligible, upon
surrender of his license or permit, to receive a refund as herein provided. But
if his license or permit is revoked or suspended upon such hearing, he shall
not be eligible for the refund or any portion of his license or permit fee. No
refund shall be made for seasonal licenses or permits. (Ord. 2584, 12-27-1971)
3-2-8: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
No person or club holding a liquor license or beer permit, nor his agents or
employees, shall do any of the following:
   A.   Prohibited Interest: It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to
be either directly or indirectly interested in more than one class of beer
permit.
   B.   Sales To Intoxicated Persons: Sell, dispense or give to any intoxicated
person, or one simulating intoxication, any alcoholic liquor or beer.
   C.   Closing Hours: Sell or dispense any alcoholic liquor or beer on the
premises covered by the license or permit, or permit the consumption thereof
between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on any
weekday, and between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. on Sunday and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the following Monday, however, a holder of a liquor
control license or class B beer permit granted the privilege of selling
alcoholic liquor or beer on Sunday may sell or dispense such liquor or beer
between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
on Sunday.
   D.   Sales On Credit: Sell alcoholic liquor or beer to any person on credit,
except with a bona fide credit card. This provision shall not apply to sales by
a club to its members nor to sales by a hotel or motel to bona fide registered
guests.
   E.   Adding Alcohol To Beer: In the case of a retail beer permittee,
knowingly allow the mixing or adding of alcohol or any alcoholic beverage to
beer or any other beverage in or about his place of business.
   F.   Dancing: No dancing shall be permitted unless the permittee has first
secured a dance hall license under the provisions of the ordinances of the city
1 .
   G.   Obscenity: Cause, permit, procure, counsel or assist any person who is
acting as a waiter, waitress, host, hostess, dancer or entertainer on the
licensed premises to:
      1.   Expose his or her genitals, pubic hair, perineum, anus region or
pubic hair region; or
      2.   Expose or wear any device, costume or covering which gives the
appearance of or simulates the genitals, pubic hair, perineum, anus region or
pubic hair region; or
      3.   Comes into any physical contact with any customer, or patron, within
the establishment, other than when assisting said customer or patron when
entering, leaving, seating or serving.
For purposes of this subsection, a person shall be deemed a waiter, waitress,
host, hostess, dancer or entertainer if such person acts in that capacity
without regard to whether such person is paid any compensation by the liquor
control licensee or beer permittee, his agent or employee.
   H.   Obscene Pictures: Cause, procure, counsel or assist any person in
showing or displaying motion pictures, slides, photographic or other printed
displays within the licensed premises which depict or show the genitals, pubic
hair, perineum, anus region or pubic hair region of either the male or female.
   I.   Beer Brand Signs Prohibited: No signs or other matter advertising any
brand of beer shall be erected or placed upon the outside of any premises
occupied by a licensee or permittee authorized to sell beer at retail.
   J.   Consumption In Public Places; Intoxication: It is unlawful for any
person to use or consume alcoholic liquors or beer upon the public streets or
highways, or alcoholic liquors in any public place, except premises covered by
a liquor control license, and no person shall be intoxicated nor simulate
intoxication in a public place. (Ord. 2584, 12-27-1971; amd. Ord. 2699, 9-3-
1974; Ord. 2785, 1-12-1976; Ord. 3178, 12-21-1981; Ord. 4447, 11-13-2000; 2001
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 3, article B of this title.
3-2-9: PROHIBITED ACTS INVOLVING MINORS:
It shall be unlawful to:
   A.   Employment Of Minors: Employ any person under the age of eighteen (18)
years old in the sale or serving of alcoholic liquor or beer for consumption on
the premises where sold.
   B.   Sales To Minors: Sell, give or otherwise supply any alcoholic beverages
or beer to any person knowing or having reasonable cause to believe him to be
under legal age, or permit any person knowing or having reasonable cause to
believe him to be under legal age, to consume any alcoholic beverage or beer.
   C.   Persons Under Legal Age: No person shall sell, give or otherwise supply
alcoholic liquor or beer to any person knowing or having reasonable cause to
believe him to be under legal age, and no person or persons under legal age
shall individually or jointly have alcoholic liquor or beer in his or their
possession or control; except in the case of liquor or beer given or dispensed
to a person under legal age within a private home and with the knowledge and
consent of the parent or guardian for beverage or medicinal purposes or as
administered to him by either a physician or dentist for medicinal purposes and
except to the extent that a person under legal age may handle alcoholic
beverages and beer during the regular course of his employment by a liquor
control licensee or beer permittee under state law.
   D.   Minors Prohibited From Certain Premises:
      1.   Policy And Purpose: It is the purpose and intent of this provision
to preclude minors under twenty one (21) years of age from entering or
remaining in those establishments whose sale or dispensing of alcoholic
beverages is more than fifty percent (50%) of the business conducted therein.
Although the ultimate responsibility for the minor's unlawful presence lies
with that minor, the licensee or permittee and his employees have a
responsibility to make reasonable scrutiny of those reasonably suspected to be
unlawfully present.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for the holder of a license or permit issued
pursuant to the Iowa Alcoholic Beverage Control Act for premises where more
than fifty percent (50%) of the business conducted therein is the sale or
dispensing of alcoholic beverages, and for any person employed upon such
premises to knowingly permit or fail to take reasonable measures to prevent the
entry unto such premises of any and all persons who have not yet attained the
age for the lawful purchase and possession of alcoholic beverages.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person who has not yet attained the age
for lawful purchase and/or possession of alcoholic beverages to enter upon such
premises as are described in subsection D2 of this section except as provided
for herein.
      4.   The provisions of subsection D2 of this section shall not apply in
the following circumstances:
         a.   The underage minor is an employee of the license holder, or
performing a contracted service with respect to said premises.
         b.   The underage person is accompanied by a parent, legal guardian or
spouse who is of legal age for the purchase and/or possession of alcoholic
beverages.
         c.   The underage minor is on the premises during a time that the
licensee or permittee has, in accordance with a written notice and plan given
in advance to the chief of police, suspended the dispensing of alcoholic
beverages on the licensed premises or on a clearly delineated part of the
licensed premises operated under a differentiating trade name. It shall be the
strict duty of a licensee or permittee who authorizes such underage minor to be
on the licensed premises pursuant to such plan, and of all persons employed
with respect to said premises, to prevent the underage minor from consuming
and/or possessing alcoholic beverages on said premises.
Police officers shall be admitted upon the premises at any time to monitor
compliance with all applicable laws. Failure to comply with that duty, whether
knowingly or otherwise, shall be punishable as a violation of this subsection.
      5.   It shall be the duty of the licensee or permittee to display in a
prominent place a printed sign, no smaller than eight inches by ten inches (8"
x 10") in size, boldly printed and reading as follows:
WARNING TO MINORS: You are subject to punishment under the Waterloo city code
if you are on the premises without your parent or legal guardian or spouse or
if you attempt to possess and/or purchase any alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 2584, 12-27-1971; amd. Ord. 3794, 6-17-1991; Ord. 4447, 11-13-2000)
3-2-10: SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION:
   A.   Material Facts For Suspension And Revocation:
      1.   The city may suspend a license or permit issued pursuant to this
chapter for a period not to exceed one year, revoke the license or permit, or
impose a civil penalty not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per
violation. Before suspension, revocation or imposition of a civil penalty, the
license or permit holder shall be given written notice and an opportunity for a
hearing pursuant to state law.
      2.   A license or permit issued under this chapter may be suspended or
revoked, or a civil penalty may be imposed, on the license or permit holder by
the city for any of the following causes:
         a.   Misrepresentation of any material fact in the application for
such license or permit.
         b.   Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter.
         c.   Any change in the ownership or interest in the business operated
under a Class A, Class B or Class C liquor control license, or any wine or beer
permit, which change was not previously reported to and approved by the local
authority and the state.
         d.   An event which would have resulted in disqualification from
receiving such license or permit when originally issued.
         e.   Any sale, hypothecation or transfer of the license or permit.
         f.   The failure or refusal on the part of any licensee or permittee
to render any report or remit any taxes to the division under this chapter when
due.
      3.   A criminal conviction is not a prerequisite to suspension,
revocation or imposition of a civil penalty pursuant to this section. The city
shall notify the division in writing of the action taken and shall notify the
licensee or permit holder of the right to appeal a suspension, revocation or
imposition of a civil penalty to the division. Civil penalties imposed and
collected by the city under this section shall be retained by the city.
      4.   The city may suspend any retail wine or beer permit or liquor
control license for a violation of an ordinance or regulation adopted by the
city.
      5.   When a liquor license or wine or beer permit is suspended, after a
hearing as a result of violations of this chapter by the licensee, permittee or
the licensee's or permittee's agents or employees, the premises which were
licensed by the license or permit shall not be relicensed for a new applicant
until the suspension has terminated or time of suspension has elapsed, or
ninety (90) days have elapsed since the commencement of the suspension,
whichever occurs first. However, this section does not prohibit the premises
from being relicensed to a new applicant before the suspension has terminated
or before the time of suspension has elapsed or before ninety (90) days have
elapsed from the commencement of the suspension, if the premises prior to the
time of the suspension has been purchased under contract, and the vendor under
that contract has exercised the person's rights under Iowa Code chapter 656 and
sold the property to a different person who is not related to the previous
licensee or permittee by marriage or within the third degree of consanguinity
or affinity and if the previous licensee or permittee does not have a financial
interest in the business of the new applicant.
      6.   If the cause for suspension is a first offense violation of Iowa
Code section 123.49(2)(h), or subsection
3-2-8D of this chapter, the city shall impose a civil penalty in the amount of
three hundred dollars ($300.00) in lieu of suspension of the license or permit.
The city shall retain civil penalties collected under this subsection if the
proceeding to impose the penalty is conducted by the city.
   B.   Effect Of Revocation: Any liquor control licensee, wine permittee or
beer permittee whose license or permit is revoked under this chapter shall not
thereafter be permitted to hold a liquor control license, wine permit or beer
permit in the state of Iowa for a period of two (2) years from the date of
revocation. A spouse or business associate holding ten percent (10%) or more of
the capital stock or ownership interest in the business of a person whose
license or permit has been revoked shall not be issued a liquor control
license, wine permit or beer permit, and no liquor control license, wine permit
or beer permit shall be issued which covers any business in which such person
has a financial interest for a period of two (2) years from the date of
revocation. If a license or permit is revoked, the premises which had been
covered by the license or permit shall not be relicensed for one year.
   C.   Appeal And Hearing: When the city imposes an administrative sanction or
disapproves a license application, the licensee may appeal the city's action to
the Alcoholic Beverages Division of the state of Iowa. The appeal must be in
writing and must be filed with the division within twenty one (21) days from
the date that the licensee was notified of the city's action. (Ord. 2584, 12-
27-1971; amd. Ord. 4447, 11-13-2000)
3-2-11: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any licensee, permittee or person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be subject to a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
the first offense, two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for the second offense,
and five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each subsequent offense or imprisonment
of thirty (30) days. Repeated violations may result in the suspension and/or
revocation of the licensee's or permittee's license.
   B.   The conviction of any liquor control licensee or beer permittee of a
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter may, subject to subsection C
of this section, be grounds for the suspension or revocation of the license or
permit by the city. However, if any liquor control licensee is convicted of any
violation of Iowa Code section 123.49, subsection (2), paragraphs a, d or e, or
any beer permittee is convicted of a violation of Iowa Code section 123.49
subsection (2), paragraph a, all of the Iowa Alcoholic Beverage Control Act,
the liquor control license or beer permit may be revoked and upon revocation
shall immediately surrender the liquor control license or beer permit, and the
bond of the licensee or permit holder shall be forfeited to the Alcoholic
Beverages Division of the Iowa department of commerce.
   C.   If any licensee, beer permittee or employee of the licensee or
permittee is convicted of a violation of subsection
3-2-9B of this chapter, or a retail beer permittee is convicted of a violation
of subsection
3-2-8E of this chapter, the city may, in addition to the other penalties fixed
for such violations by this section, assess a penalty as follows:
      1.   Upon a first conviction, the violator's liquor control license or
beer permit may be suspended for a period of fourteen (14) days.
      2.   Upon a second conviction within a period of two (2) years, the
violator's liquor control license or beer permit may be suspended for a period
of thirty (30) days.
      3.   Upon a third conviction within a period of three (3) years, the
violator's liquor control license or beer permit shall be suspended for a
period of sixty (60) days.
      4.   Upon a fourth conviction within a period of three (3) years, the
violator's liquor control license or beer permit shall be revoked. (Ord. 2584,
12-27-1971; amd. Ord. 4447, 11-13-2000)
CHAPTER 3
AMUSEMENTS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Licenses Required
3-3-2: Merry-Go-Rounds And Similar Devices
3-3-3: After Hours Business License
3-3-4: Billiard Halls And Bowling Alleys
3-3-5: Circuses And Menageries
3-3-6: Other Shows
3-3-7: Theatrical, Opera And Minstrel Troupes
3-3-8: Opera Houses And Theaters
3-3-9: Museums And Collections
3-3-10: Peace Officers Required
3-3-1: LICENSES REQUIRED:
Unless otherwise specifically provided, all licenses required by this chapter
shall be obtained pursuant to the provisions of chapter 1 of this title. (1970
Code § 6-1)
3-3-2: MERRY-GO-ROUNDS AND SIMILAR DEVICES:
No person shall carry on or engage in the business of operating any merry-go-
round, ocean wave or other similar device in the city without first procuring a
license therefor and paying a license fee of five dollars ($5.00) per day, or
twenty dollars ($20.00) per week. (Rev. Ord. 1540, Comp. 1941, p. L-4)
3-3-3: AFTER HOURS BUSINESS LICENSE:
   A.   Definitions: The definitions and provisions contained in this section
shall govern the construction, meaning, and application of the following words
and phrases used in this chapter.
                                        Any business, establishment, or place
                                        open to members of the general public
                                        at any time between the hours of two
                                        o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:
                                        00) A.M. which has for its primary
AFTER HOURS BUSINESS:                   purpose entertainment of any kind,
                                        social gathering, dancing, or playing
                                        games of skill or chance in any form
                                        regardless of legality, or the playing
                                        of live or recorded music, and which
                                        holds no permit or license to sell or
                                        dispense alcoholic beverages.
AFTER HOURS BUSINESS LICENSE:           The privilege granted by the city to
                                        operate an after hours business.
                                        Any beverage containing more than one-
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE:                     half of one percent of alcohol by
                                        volume including alcoholic liquor,
                                        wine, and beer.
                                        A person or business entity engaged in
APPLICANT:                              the process of applying for an after
                                        hours business license.
                                        All buildings, structures, lots, and
BUSINESS PREMISES or LICENSED PREMISES: properties owned, leased, or utilized
                                        for the benefit of the operation of the
                                        after hours business.
BUSINESS RECORDS:                       All financial accounting records of the
                                        after hours business.
                                        The city clerk of Waterloo, Iowa, or
CITY CLERK:                             his or her designee, to include the
                                        Waterloo police department.
                                        Any preschool, elementary, secondary,
                                        or merged area school, area education
EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION:                agency, community college, or post-
                                        secondary college or university and
                                        their governing boards.
                                        Ordinary people in society, and also
                                        includes, but is not limited to, people
                                        who pay a fee or charge to enter the
GENERAL PUBLIC:                         premises, or people who are required to
                                        obtain membership or other designation
                                        or preferred status in or from the
                                        establishment to obtain entry.
                                        Premises licensed by the State
                                        Department of Inspections and Appeals
HOTEL or MOTEL:                         and regularly or seasonally kept open
                                        in a bona fide manner for the lodging
                                        of transient guests, and with twenty
                                        (20) or more sleeping rooms.
LICENSEE:                               A person to whom the city has granted
                                        an after hours business license.
                                        Any natural individual, firm,
                                        partnership, trust, company, club,
                                        joint venture, estate, association, or
                                        corporation or any group or combination
                                        acting as a unit and the individuals
                                        constituting such group or unit. As
                                        applied to partnerships or associations
PERSON:                                 the word includes the partners or
                                        members thereof; and as applied to
                                        corporations it includes the officers,
                                        agents or employees thereof who are
                                        responsible for the act. The singular
                                        includes the plural. The masculine
                                        gender includes the feminine and
                                        neutral genders and vice versa.
                                        A poster or sign for public display
                                        affixed to a structure stating the
PLACARD:                                occupation or use of the particular
                                        business or structure is illegal to be
                                        used as an after hours business.
                                        An individual who resides in Iowa and
                                        who is designated by the applicant to
                                        be responsible for the conduct and
                                        operations of an after hours business.
REGISTERED MANAGER:                     The registered manager serves as an
                                        agent for the after hours business, and
                                        shall be the recipient of any official
                                        notices or processes from the city
                                        related to this chapter.
 
   B.   License Required:
      1.   No person shall operate an after hours business, either exclusively
or in connection with another business, without being licensed by the city as
provided in this chapter.
      2.   The after hours business license shall be conspicuously displayed on
the business premises in a public area at all times.
   C.   License Fees And Term:
      1.   The fees for an after hours business license in the city will be set
by city council resolution. The fees shall be paid when an application for a
license is filed.
      2.   Licenses will be issued for a fixed term and shall not exceed one
year. The term of the license shall not exceed the length of the applicant's
property interest in the intended after hours business location, as shown by
the information submitted by the applicant, and shall not exceed the length of
the applicant's required insurance policy for the same.
      3.   Ten (10) days prior to the expiration of a license that has not been
issued for a full year, an applicant may request an extension of the license
period. The applicant must provide an updated lease, deed or other property
interest document and valid insurance for the requested license extension
period. License extensions shall not extend beyond one year from the original
license issuance date related to the extension request. No license extensions
shall be granted if the applicant is requesting to, or has, modified the after
hours business name, address, or interior plans and specifications.
      4.   The licensee may apply to renew the license by the submission of an
application for renewal in the same manner as required for original issuance,
accompanied by the payment of the license fee as set by city council
resolution. Applications for renewal shall be available from the city clerk.
   D.   Application: Application for an after hours business shall be made on
forms provided by the city clerk's office. The application shall include:
      1.   The intended business name, the address of the property to be used
as an after hours business, and documentation establishing the applicant's
property interest and control of the premises on which the business will be
located, which shall be in the form of a lease, deed, or other document that
establishes the applicant's interest.
      2.   Name and owner(s) of any other businesses located on the same parcel
of land as the intended after hours business.
      3.   At the time of application, the applicant shall provide the
following most current and updated information as requested below in a list
format to be maintained at all times concerning the applicant, owner, manager,
and registered manager of the after hours business:
         a.   Name and address for each individual;
         b.   License number of a valid and current government issued photo ID
for each individual;
         c.   Up to date contact information including phone numbers and
electronic mail addresses for each individual;
         d.   Dates and locations of other related businesses any individual
listed above owns or operates, or has owned or operated;
      4.   A statement as to whether the applicant, owner, manager, or
registered manager has ever had a similar license denied, revoked or suspended
in any city, county, or any state and the reason or the denial, revocation or
suspension.
      5.   Interior plans and specifications for the interior premises to be
licensed.
      6.   Written consent of the registered manager to serve as an agent for
services of notices and other processes related to the after hours business.
The registered manager shall remain responsible for the conduct of the after
hours business until another person has been designated in writing by the
applicant or licensee.
      7.   Consent to use the information on the application to conduct a
background check on the applicant, owner, manager, and registered manager.
      8.   Each after hours business shall provide proof of general liability
insurance, including personal and advertising injury in the amount of one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) and a general aggregate of products and
completed operations aggregate of two million dollars ($2,000,000.00). A
certificate of insurance shall be delivered to the city clerk prior to the
issuance of an after hours business license. Such insurance shall be maintained
during the term of the license.
      9.   In the event an applicant or licensee intends to operate an after
hours business in multiple physical locations, a separate application is
required for each individual location.
   E.   Granting Or Denial Of License:
      1.   After hours business license applications shall be reviewed by the
city clerk who, after considering all of the information provided in and with
the application shall either grant or deny the license.
      2.   If the city clerk finds that the applicant for an after hours
business license has fully complied with all requirements of this chapter and
with all other applicable ordinances and codes, the city clerk shall issue an
after hours business license.
      3.   Whenever any application for an after hours business license shall
have been denied by the city clerk the applicant will be notified by mail and
no new application covering the same applicant or any principal, member,
partner, or shareholder of the same or similar applicant, if not an individual,
shall be filed with the clerk until one year has elapsed from the date of
filing the previous application.
   F.   Conditions Governing Issuance:
      1.   Licenses shall only be issued to applicants who have provided all
the information requested in the application, have paid the license fee, have
met the requirements of this chapter, and do not meet any grounds for denial of
applications under Section M of this chapter.
      2.   If information changes on the application during the licensing
period, the applicant must contact the city to update the information within
ten (10) calendar days. The applicant or licensee shall promptly notify the
city in writing of any change with regard to, but not limited to, the
following: ownership, business location, business name, interior plans and
specifications, insurance status, or registered manager designation and provide
all relevant application information pertaining to the above.
   G.   Scope Of License:
      1.   An after hours business license shall be a personal privilege and
may be suspended or revoked as provided for herein. It is not property, nor is
it subject to attachment and execution, nor alienable or assignable and it
shall immediately cease upon the death of the licensee if an individual person,
termination of the licensed business entity, or terminate immediately if the
licensed business entity or licensed building, lot, or property is sold or
transferred.
      2.   Every license shall be issued in the name of the applicant and no
person holding a license shall allow any person not included on the application
to use the license.
      3.   No after hours business license shall be sold or transferred. An
after hours business license is automatically terminated at the sale, transfer,
or other change in property interest of the licensed business entity, building,
lot, or property. The purchaser of any after hours business shall make
application for and obtain a new license before operating any after hours
business.
   H.   Location Restrictions:
      1.   No after hours business shall provide outdoor entertainment.
      2.   No after hours business shall be permitted in a residential zone
district as defined by the Waterloo Municipal Code.
      3.   All licensed premises shall comply with the zoning ordinance of the
Waterloo Municipal Code.
   I.   Exemptions: The following persons shall not be required to obtain an
after hours business license for the city:
      1.   Hotels or motels licensed by the State of Iowa.
      2.   Persons holding private gatherings in private residences.
      3.   Persons holding school events sanctioned by an educational
institution.
   J.   Examination Of Premises:
      1.   As part of the application process for an after hours business
license, applicants must submit the proposed after hours business location and
premises to inspection by the city's building inspections department and fire
department. Failure to submit to the required inspections or failure to meet
city code standards during the inspections shall result in denial of the
license, per Section M of this chapter.
      2.   An after hours business may be re-inspected to ensure compliance
with this chapter if one (1) or more of the following occurs:
         a.   Credible information is received indicating that the after hours
business is operating in violation of the provisions of this code or any state
law;
         b.   A city official, police officer, fire code official, or any other
government official witnesses a possible violation of the standards or
provisions of this code, or any state or federal laws, and the city determines
there is probable cause to enter the premises;
         c.   The city must determine whether the after hours business is
acting in compliance with a notice or an order issued by a city official; and/
or
         d.   A public health, safety or welfare emergency is observed or is
reasonably believed to exist.
   K.   Persons Under Age Eighteen (18) Not Allowed On Licensed Premises: No
person holding an after hours business license, nor his or her agents or
employees shall allow a person under eighteen (18) years of age to enter or
remain on the licensed premises from twelve o’clock (12:00) A.M. through six
o’clock (6:00) A.M. on all days when the licensed premises is open for
business.
   L.   Violation By Applicant, Owner, Manager, Employee Or Registered Manager:
All managers, owners, registered managers, licensee, and employees of any after
hours business shall be subject to and bound by this chapter and state law and
shall be liable for the same penalties and to the same extent as his or her
employer or principal for any violation of this chapter or state law. Any
violation of this chapter or state law by any clerk, agent, or employee of a
licensee shall be deemed the act of the licensee and shall subject the licensee
to potential civil penalty, criminal action, or license suspension or
revocation.
   M.   Adverse Action; Grounds For Denial And Revocation Or Suspension: It
shall be grounds for denial of the application or revocation or suspension of
the license if:
      1.   The applicant, owner, manager, or registered manager fails to
provide and maintain proof of insurance or proof of valid property interest in
the property being used for an after hours business.
      2.   The applicant, owner, manager, employee or registered manager has
been charged or convicted of disorderly conduct in violation of either state or
city law.
      3.   The applicant, owner, manager, employee or registered manager has
been charged or convicted of human trafficking in violation of Iowa Code
Section 710.
      4.   The applicant, owner, manager, employee or registered manager
knowingly permits any gambling on the premises in violation of Iowa Code
Section 725.
      5.   The applicant, owner, manager, employee or registered manager keeps
or allows to be kept gambling devices of any kind on the licensed premises
contrary to state law.
      6.   The applicant, owner, manager, employee or registered manager
knowingly permits loud or raucous noise or behavior in violation of the
municipal code.
      7.   The applicant, owner, manager, employee or registered manager
knowingly permits or engages in the use or sale of illegal drugs in violation
of Iowa Code Section 124.
      8.   The applicant, licensee, employee, or registered manager knowingly
permits or engages in the sale of alcoholic beverages.
      9.   The applicant, licensee, employee, or registered manager knowingly
permits or engages in a sex crime defined by Iowa Chapter 709, Prostitution as
defined by Iowa Code Chapter 725 or Iowa Code Chapter 627, or is a registered
sex offender under Iowa Code.
      10.   The applicant, licensee, employee, or registered manager knowingly
permits or engages in any criminal activity on the premises covered by the
license.
      11.   The applicant, owner, manager, employee or registered manager
knowingly permits or engages in the manufacture or delivery of a controlled
substance as defined by Iowa Code Chapter 124.
      12.   The applicant, owner, manager, employee or registered manager has
been charged or convicted of illegal control or possession of any narcotic
drugs or controlled substance on a licensed premises.
      13.   The applicant, owner, manager, employee or registered manager has
had a license suspended, denied, or revoked by another municipality or by the
city within the past two years. Suspension or revocation of an after hours
license shall be grounds for suspension or revocation at all locations licensed
and controlled by the applicant, owner, manager, employee or registered
manager.
      14.   The applicant, owner, manager, employee or registered manager has
engaged in actions in violation of state laws or municipal ordinances that may
adversely affect public health or safety.
      15.   The application contains false information, intentionally fails to
disclose required information, or was fraudulently or deceptively prepared or
submitted by the applicant or another individual.
      16.   The applicant, owner, manager, employee or registered manager has
any unpaid fees or bills owed to the city.
      17.   The applicant, owner, manager, employee or registered manager has
violated, or is currently in violation of provisions of this chapter.
      18.   The applicant, owner, manager, employee or registered manager
knowingly permits violations of sections of the municipal code to occur at a
licensed premises.
      19.   The property to be utilized for the after hours business does not
meet occupancy requirements of the municipal code upon inspection by the city's
building inspections department.
      20.   The property to be utilized for the after hours business does not
meet fire code requirements of the municipal code upon inspection by the city's
fire department.
      21.   The property to be utilized for the after hours business does not
meet life safety requirements of the municipal code upon inspection by the
city's building inspections department. The applicant does not submit to the
required inspections by the city's building inspections department or fire
department.
   N.   Notice Of Denial, Revocation, Suspension, Or Corrective Action:
      1.   Upon a determination by the city clerk that a licensee has failed to
comply with the requirements of this chapter, the city shall issue a notice of
violation to the licensee. Service shall be provided in accordance with Section
S of this chapter.
      2.   Upon receipt of the notice of violation, the licensee shall
immediately cease or remedy all violations of this chapter. If the violation
cannot be remedied immediately, the licensee may submit a corrective action
plan to the city clerk within ten (10) days of receiving the notice of
violation. The licensee's corrective action plan shall specify the specific
actions the licensee will implement to ensure the violations in question do not
continue. This will include a timeline for the corrective actions to become
effective.
      3.   If the licensee submits a corrective action plan, the licensee or
their registered manager will meet with the city clerk within seven (7)
business days to review the facts of the case and the corrective action
contemplated by the plan. After the meeting and a review of the licensee's
corrective action plan, the city clerk shall approve or deny the contents of
the plan.
      4.   The submission of the corrective action plan may be considered by
the city clerk as cause to delay corrective action taken by the city pursuant
to Section P of this chapter.
      5.   If the licensee fails to take immediate corrective action, fails to
submit a corrective action plan, fails to submit a corrective action plan that
is approved by the city clerk, or fails to meet the deadlines or requirements
imposed by an approved corrective action plan, the city clerk may take
corrective action against the licensee, after hours business, or the premises
used by the same pursuant to Section P of this chapter.
   O.   Notice Of Violation; Contents: The notice of violation required by this
chapter shall contain:
      1.   The name and location of the business in question.
      2.   The name of the licensee, and registered manager.
      3.   A description of what constitutes a violation of this chapter.
      4.   A statement that the licensee shall cure any violation of this
chapter or submit a corrective action plan to the city clerk within ten (10)
days of receiving the notice of violation, or the business may face license
suspension, license revocation, and the city may placard the after hours
business's premises related to the violations until the licensee and after
hours business is in full compliance with this chapter.
   P.   Corrective Action By The City:
      1.   If a licensee, who has been served with a notice of violation, fails
to comply with the requirements of the notice of violation, the city may take
corrective action. Such corrective action may include the suspension or
revocation of the licensee's after hours business license or the placing of a
placard on each entrance to the property and ensuring the property is secure
from access. This provision shall not be construed to impose any duty upon the
city to take such corrective action.
      2.   If the city placards the property, the licensee shall be responsible
for all of the costs incurred by the city in taking such action.
      3.   If the city placards the property, it shall be illegal for any
person to remove or alter the placard, or to access or operate out of the
property without written permission of the city clerk. The city clerk may, for
good cause, grant access to the placarded property to specific individuals for
specific times and purposes.
      4.   If the city suspends or revokes the after hours business license, it
shall be illegal for any person to hold open the after hours business for
continued business until the license has been reinstated or a new license
obtained.
      5.   If the city has reason to believe an after hours business defined by
this chapter is or imminently will be operating without a license, the city
clerk may placard the property immediately until a license is obtained.
      6.   An after hours business operating in violation of this chapter may
be placarded immediately and their license may be revoked and no license shall
be issued to the applicant and business owner for one year.
   Q.   Reinstatement Of License, Removal Of Placard:
      1.   If a license has been suspended and the city clerk determines that
the licensee and after hours business has remedied all violations listed in the
notice of violation, the city clerk may order that the suspension be lifted.
      2.   If the city placards an after hours business and the city clerk
determines that the licensee and after hours business has remedied all
violations listed in the notice of violation, the city clerk shall order the
removal of placards from the premises.
   R.   Appeal Of Administrative Decisions Or Actions:
      1.   Any person aggrieved by a decision or act of the city clerk or city
under this chapter, including, but not limited to, denial of a license, a
notice of violation, or corrective action taken by the city, shall have the
opportunity for hearing before a hearing officer appointed by the city. Any
aggrieved party may appeal any such decision or act by submitting a written
request for a hearing to the city clerk. All such appeals must be hand
delivered, electronically delivered, or posted by mail within ten (10) days of
the decision or act of the city clerk or city. When a timely appeal has been
made, the hearing shall be held pursuant to this section; any request for
hearing received shall not entitle the requesting party to a hearing.
      2.   Upon receipt of a timely request for hearing and the appointment of
a hearing officer, the hearing officer shall set a hearing to be held within
ten (10) days from said receipt and, further shall give no less than seven (7)
days' notice to the requesting party of the time, date, and location of said
hearing. The hearing may be reset by agreement of the parties, as confirmed in
writing, but in no event shall the hearing be held any later than thirty (30)
days after the date of the action or decision being appealed.
      3.   The hearing shall be informal in nature, and the parties may be
represented by counsel or appear on their own behalf. After reviewing the
evidence presented, the hearing officer shall make a written ruling within five
(5) days of the hearing affirming or vacating the decision or act of the city
clerk or city under this chapter.
   S.   Service Of Notice: Except where expressly provided otherwise, notices
required under this chapter shall be served by one or more of the following
methods:
      1.   Mailing by both regular mail and certified mail, as defined in Iowa
Code Section 618.15 (2021), to the last known address of the licensee and/or
registered manager.
      2.   Hand delivery and mailing by regular mail to the licensee and
registered manager.
      3.   Personal service on the licensee and registered manager pursuant to
Iowa Rule of Civil Procedure 1.305.
      4.   Any other method of providing notice that results in the notice
actually being received by the licensee and registered manager.
      5.   In the event the licensee is a business entity, service shall be
made upon the registered agent on file with the Iowa Secretary of State. If the
licensee is a business entity that has failed to register, or is not required
to register as a registered agent with the Iowa Secretary of State, service
upon the registered manager shall be deemed sufficient under this chapter.
   T.   Alternative Means Of Enforcement: Without negating, restricting, or
otherwise limiting any conditions or sanctions imposed pursuant to this
chapter, this chapter may also be enforced by any lawful means, including but
not limited to the following:
      1.   Prosecution as a simple misdemeanor in accordance with Title 1 of
the Waterloo Municipal Code and Chapter 364 of the Iowa Code.
      2.   The filing of a municipal infraction in accordance with Title 1 of
the Waterloo Municipal Code and Chapter 364 of the Iowa Code.
   U.   Administrative Rules: The city clerk is authorized to establish
administrative rules not inconsistent with any ordinance to carry out the
provisions of this chapter. A copy of said rules shall be on file at the office
of the city clerk. (Ord. 5263, 1-26-2015; amd. Ord. 5606, 7-6-2021)
3-3-4: BILLIARD HALLS AND BOWLING ALLEYS:
   A.   No person in the city shall own, operate, manage or control any
billiard parlor, pool hall or other places where billiard tables, pool tables,
bagatelle tables, shuffleboard or other tables on which any games are played or
kept or maintained or any ninepin, tenpin or bowling alley where a fee or
compensation is charged directly or indirectly for the privilege of playing
upon the tables, or upon the alleys, without first procuring a license
therefor, for which there shall be a license fee of ten dollars ($10.00) per
year for each table contained therein and for each bowling alley the sum of ten
dollars ($10.00) per year for each alley.
   B.   If any owner, operator or manager of a bowling alley or billiard hall
shall permit or allow any betting upon the games played therein, or shall
permit or allow any gambling of any sort, he shall be guilty of an offense, and
upon conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in section
1-3-1 of this code. (Rev. Ord. 1540, Comp. 1941, p. L-4)
3-3-5: CIRCUSES AND MENAGERIES:
   A.   Each circus or menagerie, before doing business in the city, shall
obtain a license therefor, and pay a license fee as follows:
      1.   Where the charge for admission is twenty five cents ($0.25) or less,
the fee shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) for each day, for one or more
performances.
      2.   Where the charge for admission is in excess of twenty five cents
($0.25), the fee shall be one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for each day, for
one or more performances, including street parade or parades.
   B.   Before a license required by subsection A of this section shall be
issued, the person making application for the license shall file in the office
of the city clerk a bond in the penal sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00)
with one or more sureties, which sureties shall be residents of the city or, if
signed by a surety company, then a company authorized to do business in the
state and in the county, which bond may be approved by the city clerk. The bond
shall be conditioned that the licensee under this section will pay to the city
any and all damages caused to the streets, highways, avenues, alleys, bridges,
pavements, curbs and sidewalks in the city on account of the use of the streets
by the licensee; the bond shall not be released except by action of the city
council.
   C.   Each sideshow accompanying or following any circus or menagerie shall
obtain a license, the fee for which shall be ten dollars ($10.00) per day, for
one or more exhibitions. (Rev. Ord. 1540, Comp. 1941, p. L-4)
3-3-6: OTHER SHOWS:
Any show other than a circus or menagerie shall, before doing business in the
city, obtain a license therefor, the fee for which shall be twenty five dollars
($25.00) per day, for one or more exhibitions. (Rev. Ord. 1540, Comp. 1941, p.
L-4)
3-3-7: THEATRICAL, OPERA AND MINSTREL TROUPES:
Each theatrical, minstrel or opera troupe or company shall, before doing
business in the city, obtain a license therefor, the fee for which shall be
twenty five dollars ($25.00) per day, for one or more performances, unless such
performances or exhibitions are given in an opera house or theater building
licensed pursuant to this chapter. (Rev. Ord. 1540, Comp. 1941, p. L-4)
3-3-8: OPERA HOUSES AND THEATERS:
   A.   No person as an owner, agent or employee of any opera house, theater
building, hall or other permanent enclosure shall permit, give or allow any
theatrical performance, opera, minstrel show, concert, show, exhibition or
entertainment of any kind or character from which profit or gain is to be
derived, or at which an admission fee in money, property or its equivalent is
charged, without first obtaining a license therefor, the fee for which shall be
three dollars ($3.00) for each single performance, or two dollars ($2.00) for
each performance, if two (2) or more performances are given in succession;
however, the owner or manager of an opera house, theater building, hall or
other permanent enclosure may obtain an annual license therefor, for which he
shall pay an annual fee of fifty dollars ($50.00), and providing that no
theatrical performance, opera, minstrel show, concert or other amusement given
or held in such a licensed place shall be required to secure a license.
   B.   Lectures on scientific, historical, educational or literary subjects
shall not come within the provisions of this section and no license shall be
required therefor. (Rev. Ord. 1540, Comp. 1941, p. L-4)
3-3-9: MUSEUMS AND COLLECTIONS:
For each traveling museum of natural or artificial curiosities, each art
collection, or exhibit of pictures, paintings and sculpture for which an
admission fee is charged for the benefit and profit of the owner or exhibitor,
a license shall be required, the fee for which shall be two dollars ($2.00) per
day, ten dollars ($10.00) per week, or twenty five dollars ($25.00) per month.
(Rev. Ord. 1540, Comp. 1941, p. L-4)
3-3-10: PEACE OFFICERS REQUIRED:
Each person engaged in conducting a place where public entertainment is
conducted, shall pay a fee prescribed by the city council by resolution for the
services of each peace officer. The peace officers shall be selected by the
mayor or the chief of police. The city shall not be liable for all or any part
of the salary of any such peace officer. (Rev. Ord. 1791, Comp. 1941, p. P-9;
amd. 2001 Code)
ARTICLE A. ROLLER SKATING RINKS
SECTION:
3-3A-1: License Required; Fees
3-3A-2: Conditions Of License
3-3A-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES:
No person shall operate a roller skating rink in the city without first
procuring a license therefor from the city council at a fee of ten dollars
($10.00) per month or fifty dollars ($50.00) per year. (Rev. Ord. 1540, Comp.
1941, p. L-4)
3-3A-2: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Outside Lighting Requirements:
      1.   Each roller skating rink shall have the ground adjacent to the
exterior thereof lighted to the intensity of one-tenth (1/10) foot-candle at
any point one foot (1') from the ground and forty feet (40') from the exterior
of the building housing the rink.
      2.   No license required by this article shall be granted unless the
building has been inspected and approved by the building official and the fire
chief.
   B.   Cleanliness; Interior Lighting; Unobstructed Passageways: Each roller
skating rink shall be kept at all times in a clean and sanitary condition, and
all stairways and other passages in connection with the roller skating rink
shall be kept open and well lighted, the roller skating rink shall be well
lighted in the interior.
   C.   Conduct Of Patrons: Disorderly or intoxicated persons shall not be
permitted to remain in or about any roller skating rink, nor shall any profane
language or indecent conduct on the part of any person or persons be permitted
in or about any roller skating rink. (Rev. Ord. 1540, Comp. 1941, p. L-4)
ARTICLE B. PUBLIC DANCES AND DANCE HALLS
SECTION:
3-3B-1: Definitions
3-3B-2: License Required
3-3B-3: License Fees
3-3B-4: Special Permits
3-3B-5: Conditions Of License
3-3B-6: Peace Officers Required
3-3B-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed
to them:
PUBLIC DANCE HALL: Any room, place or space open to the public where dancing is
allowed with or without the payment of a fee, notwithstanding the fact that
food may be served therein and a restaurant license held pursuant to state law,
this code or other ordinance of the city.
PUBLIC DANCE OR PUBLIC BALL: Any dance to which the public generally may gain
admission with or without the payment of a fee. (Rev. Ord. 1540, Comp. 1941, p.
L-4)
3-3B-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to hold any public dance or public ball until the
dance hall in which the dance or ball is to be held shall have first been duly
licensed for such purpose. The license shall be issued by the city clerk, and
the fee therefor shall be paid at the time of the issuance of the license.
   B.   The mayor may revoke the license for disorderly or immoral conduct on
the premises or for a violation of any of the provisions of this code, other
ordinances of the city and state laws governing or applying to public dance
halls or public dances.
   C.   If at any time the license of a public dance hall is revoked, at least
six (6) months shall elapse before another license shall be granted to the
licensee for dancing on the same premises.
   D.   Each license granted pursuant to this article shall expire on May 1 in
each year. (Rev. Ord. 1540, Comp. 1941, p. L-4; amd. 2001 Code)
3-3B-3: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Fees: Each person engaged in or conducting a public dance hall, or
giving public dances, shall pay to the city clerk each year in advance at the
time of the issuance of the license required by this article, a license fee as
follows:
 
   Size Of Space                    Annual Fee
Not exceeding 2,500 square feet        $25.00
2,501 square feet to 5,000 square feet 50.00
5,001 square feet to 6,500 square feet 75.00
Over 6,501 square feet                 100.00
 
   B.   Computation Of Floor Space: For the purposes of this section, in
computing floor space, only that portion of the floor actually used for dancing
shall be considered.
   C.   Disposition Of Fees: All monies received by way of license or permit
fees shall be paid into the general fund of the city. (Rev. Ord. 1540, Comp.
1941, p. L-4)
3-3B-4: SPECIAL PERMITS:
   A.   Each person giving an occasional public dance shall obtain in advance a
special permit therefor for each dance, and shall pay to the city clerk a
permit fee of five dollars ($5.00) for each such dance given.
   B.   Any person giving a public dance on an average of once a month shall be
regarded as conducting public dances and shall be liable for the annual fee as
provided in this article. (Rev. Ord. 1540, Comp. 1941, p. L-4)
3-3B-5: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   License To Be Posted: Each person issued a license pursuant to this
article shall post the license in a conspicuous place in the dance hall.
   B.   Maintenance Of Premises: All public dance halls shall be kept at all
times in a clean and sanitary condition, and all stairways and other passages
and all rooms connected with a dance hall shall be kept open and well lighted.
   C.   Conduct Of Dances:
      1.   The chief of police and all other police officers of the city, and
the police officers required by this article to be employed, shall have the
power to cause the place, hall or room where any dance or ball is held or given
to be vacated whenever any provision is being violated, or whenever any
indecent act shall be committed or when any disorder of a gross, violent or
vulgar character shall take place therein.
      2.   It shall be the duty of the police officer required by this article
to be employed, to immediately report to the chief of police, or any other
police officer, any violation that would constitute cause for vacating the
dance hall.
      3.   Disorderly or intoxicated persons shall not be permitted to attend a
public dance or remain in or about a public dance hall nor shall any profane
language or indecent conduct on the part of any person be permitted in or about
a public dance hall.
   D.   Closing Hours: All public dances shall be discontinued, and all public
dance halls shall be closed, on or before the hour of one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
of each day of the week, and no dancing shall be carried on in any public dance
hall at a later hour than one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
   E.   Admission Restrictions: The admission fee to a public dance or public
dance hall, if any, shall entitle any person paying the fee to participate in
all dances and no separate or individual fee shall be charged or collected for
participation in any individual dance. No pass-out or return checks shall be
issued and persons leaving the dance hall and its anterooms shall not be
readmitted thereto, except upon payment of the regular admission fee. (Rev.
Ord. 1540, Comp. 1941, p. L-4)
3-3B-6: PEACE OFFICERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Employment Required: In addition to the license fees or permit fees
required by this article, each person engaged in conducting a public dance
hall, or giving a public dance, in a dance hall having a floor space exceeding
one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet, shall employ and pay at the
current wage scale a police officer.
   B.   Supervisory And Enforcement Authority Of Employed Peace Officer: It
shall be the duty of the peace officer required by this article to be employed
to exercise complete supervision over all public dances to which he may be
assigned for duty, and to maintain peace and good order in the public dance
hall, and to enforce all the provisions of this article as well as the other
provisions of this code and other ordinances of the city and the laws of the
state relative thereto. (Rev. Ord. 1540, Comp. 1941, p. L-4; amd. Rev. Ord.
1191, Comp. 1941, p. P-9; 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 4
BUSINESSES RELATING TO SALES
ARTICLE A. PAWNBROKERS
SECTION:
3-4A-1: Definitions
3-4A-2: License Required
3-4A-3: License Criteria
3-4A-4: License Issuance
3-4A-5: Stipulations And Fees
3-4A-6: Transaction Fee
3-4A-7: Records Register
3-4A-8: Inspections
3-4A-9: Law Enforcement Holds And Seizures
3-4A-10: Holding Periods
3-4A-11: Prohibited Acts
3-4A-12: Denial, Suspension Or Revocation
3-4A-13: Penalty
3-4A-1: DEFINITIONS:
Pawnbroker means every person who makes loans or advancements upon pawn, pledge
or deposit of personal property or who receives actual possession of personal
property as security for loans, with or without a mortgage or bill of sale
thereon, or who by advertisement, sign or otherwise holds himself or herself
out as a pawnbroker. (Ord. 5481, 2-4-2019)
3-4A-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall engage in the pawn business without first obtaining a
pawnbroker license.
   B.   All applicants for such licenses shall apply in writing to the City
Clerk.
   C.   All license applications shall contain the following information:
      1.   The full name, residential address, business address, date of birth
and social security number of all parties who have an ownership stake.
      2.   Where the applicant is a corporation or partnership, the names of
the officer/partners and name and address of the local manager.
   D.   The name and address of the owner of the business' premises.
   E.   The business, occupation or employment of the applicant, including
location thereof, for the two (2) years immediately preceding the date of
application.
   F.   The arrest record of the applicant and whether the applicant has ever
been convicted of any crime, except simple misdemeanor traffic violations. If
any person mentioned in this subsection has been so convicted, a statement must
be made giving the place and court in which such conviction was had, the
specific charge under which the conviction was obtained, and the sentence
imposed as a result of such conviction.
   G.   Assurance the applicant has a computer that can access the internet and
utilize the automated pawn records system.
   H.   Proof of ten thousand dollar ($10,000.00) surety bond. (Ord. 5481, 2-4-
2019)
3-4A-3: LICENSE CRITERIA:
Upon receipt of a pawnbroker license application, the City Clerk shall forward
a copy of the application to the Chief of Police and the Zoning Enforcement
Officer or their designees who shall review the application. The applicant
shall furnish such evidence as may reasonably be required in support of the
statements set forth in the application. The Chief of Police and the Zoning
Enforcement Officer or their designees shall report to the City Clerk within
thirty (30) days of receipt of the application considering but not limited to
the criteria of whether:
   A.   The applicant or his or her agent or employee charged with receiving or
distributing property has been convicted of a felony. However, if the
conviction of a felony occurred more than five (5) years before the application
for a pawnbroker license and if such person's rights of citizenship have been
restored by the Governor, such conviction shall not be a bar to obtaining a
pawnbroker license;
   B.   The applicant has truthfully reported all relevant facts within the
pawnbroker application;
   C.   The applicant has such financial standing and good reputation to
indicate that he or she will comply with all the laws of the State and the
City;
   D.   The applicant has a computer that can access the internet and utilize
the automated pawn records system; and
   E.   The pawnbroker's business complies with City of Waterloo zoning
requirements, Iowa State law and all relevant site plan regulations and
guidelines. (Ord. 5481, 2-4-2019)
3-4A-4: LICENSE ISSUANCE:
   A.   Upon receipt of an acceptable police and zoning report and the
appropriate fees, the City Clerk shall approve the application if the applicant
has fully complied with all of the requirements of this article, and the City
Clerk shall thereupon issue a pawnbroker license to the applicant and forward a
copy of such to the Chief of Police.
      1.   The license shall:
         a.   Expire on December 31 after the date of issuance.
         b.   State the name, address and phone number of business licensed.
         c.   State the type of business to be transacted.
         d.   State the date of issuance and expiration of the license.
   B.   If the City Clerk determines that the applicant for a new or renewal
license has not fully complied with all of the requirements of this article or
that the applicant has falsified his or her application, the City Clerk shall
after consultation with the City Attorney, deny the license.
      1.   The applicant then may appeal the Clerk's decision to the City
Council.
   C.   Upon any change in any of the information required to be submitted as
part of the application, licensee shall within five (5) days of such change
notify the City Clerk of said change, in writing, and in the event of a change
of address for doing business, the license shall be returned to the City Clerk
and an amended license issued designating the new location. The amended license
shall be valid for the length of time remaining on the original license. (Ord.
5481, 2-4-2019)
3-4A-5: STIPULATIONS AND FEES:
   A.   An applicant for a pawnbroker license shall submit a fifty dollar
($50.00) application fee to the City Clerk at the time of filing the
application. The license fee will be required for renewal each January.
   B.   An applicant who makes a late application for renewal of a pawnbroker
license shall pay a late fee of ten dollars ($10.00) per month after January
1st. Failing to acquire the appropriate license by April 1st will require the
person to close the business and face criminal and civil penalties.
   C.   Any person operating several or separate pawn brokering businesses
shall pay the license fee and procure a license for each physical location.
   D.   Violations in one licensed premises shall not be deemed violations in
all premises licensed by that pawnbroker, unless there is a clear nexus for the
violation and the business.
   E.   Every licensed pawnbroker shall display his or her license
conspicuously in the business so that it may be readily observed by all persons
entering the premises.
   F.   No pawnbroker license shall be sold or transferred. The purchaser of
any pawnbroker business or of the majority of the stock of any corporation
operating a pawnbroker business shall make application for and obtain a new
license before operating such business at the location for which the license
has been issued. (Ord. 5481, 2-4-2019)
3-4A-6: TRANSACTION FEE:
A pawnbroker shall collect a transaction fee of fifty cents ($0.50) per
transaction. The transaction fee shall be collected by the licensee, from each
customer, upon the initiation of each new pawn loan, and each transaction
involving the purchasing of personal property. The pawnbroker shall pay to the
City all transaction fees collected, by the 15th of the following month.
   A.   Transaction fees will be utilized to maintain and operate an electronic
filing system to aid law enforcement in recovering stolen property.
   B.   Transaction fees in excess of the amount needed to cover costs
associated with maintaining the system will be reimbursed to the license holder
to help offset the loss associated with stolen/recovered property seized by the
Waterloo Police Department. The percent of reimbursement will be determined by
dividing the funds available by the total seized property and then distributed
based on percentage seized to each licensee.
   C.   If all license holders have been made whole, remaining fees will be
placed in a project account for the City of Waterloo to provide solvency to the
system. (Ord. 5481, 2-4-2019)
3-4A-7: RECORDS REGISTER:
   A.   Record Required: On each item or article at the time of pawning or
purchasing said item, every license holder shall be required to keep a record
in which the license holder shall accurately collect the following:
      1.   Date and time the item was presented.
      2.   A detailed accurate description of the item.
      3.   The serial and model number if available.
      4.   Special characteristics or identifying marks.
      5.   Amount paid, advanced or loaned for the item.
      6.   A photocopy or digital copy of a valid State or government issued
photo ID.
      7.   A current address and telephone number from the person presenting
the item.
   B.   Failing To Keep Records: Failing to obtain and keep the above
information, making false or fraudulent entries will be considered a simple
misdemeanor with criminal charges, loss of license and fines.
   C.   Submitting Records: The records register shall be submitted
electronically to the City of Waterloo or its authorized agents, at a minimum
on each Monday by nine o'clock (9:00) A.M.
      1.   If there are issues preventing the submission of all items collected
during that time, the following requirements apply:
         a.   The licensee must record and submit the required information in
another manner on the appropriate Monday.
         b.   All property received, will be held for five (5) days from the
time electronic submissions are restored.
            (1)   This holding period does not apply to the redemption of loan
items.
         c.   If there are extenuating circumstances resulting in extended
electronic downtime the Chief of Police or designee will have the authority to
waive the holding period.
      2.   Each entity is responsible to maintain data security and
confidentiality of personal information and is responsible for any and all
breaches to their respective systems.
         a.   Confidential information shall include the following:
            (1)   Any and all personal information.
            (2)   Transactional information that would give a business
advantage to any participating organization.
            (3)   Certain necessary information may be released by law
enforcement for investigative purposes or prosecution of criminal offenses as
per Iowa law. (Ord. 5481, 2-4-2019)
3-4A-8: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   The license holder shall at all times permit a duly authorized police
officer of the City of Waterloo to inspect the entire premises covered by the
license, including all locked containers and all records having any
relationship to the operation of the pawn business.
   B.   No licensee, agent or employee shall refuse, resist or attempt to
prevent a duly sworn police officer from examining the licensed premises for
the purpose of discovering/recovering stolen property or any violation of this
article. (Ord. 5481, 2-4-2019)
3-4A-9: LAW ENFORCEMENT HOLDS AND SEIZURES:
   A.   The police are authorized to require a "hold" on property for
investigative purposes. This hold requires the licensee to hold the property
until such time the hold has been cleared.
      1.   If law enforcement has not cleared the hold or recovered the
property within fifteen (15) days of placing the hold the licensee may dispose
of the items as they deem appropriate.
   B.   The police are authorized to seize property with a seizure notice; a
copy of the receipt will be given to the licensee. (Ord. 5481, 2-4-2019)
3-4A-10: HOLDING PERIODS:
   A.   Any item pawned shall not be sold, transferred, altered, removed from
the premises or otherwise disposed of for fifteen (15) days from the date the
item was received by the licensee.
      1.   However an individual may redeem said item that was pawned during or
after the fifteen (15) day holding period at the discretion of the pawnbroker,
provided there are no law enforcement holds.
      2.   Items purchased for resale by the licensee shall be held for fifteen
(15) days prior to being offered for sale.
      3.   There is no hold required for items purchased from a wholesale
vendor and sold as new. (Ord. 5481, 2-4-2019)
3-4A-11: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   No licensee shall receive property from any person under the age of
eighteen (18).
   B.   No licensee shall receive property unless the seller presents a valid
state or government issued photo ID.
   C.   No licensee will interfere with law enforcement investigations or
recovery of stolen property.
   D.   No goods or merchandise shall be stored or continuously displayed on
any public right-of-way. (Ord. 5481, 2-4-2019)
3-4A-12: DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
   A.   Any license under this article may be denied, suspended or revoked for
any of the following reasons by the Waterloo City Clerk:
      1.   Failing to conform to the Waterloo Zoning Ordinance.
      2.   Failing to comply with Health, Building and Building Maintenance
Codes of the City of Waterloo, Black Hawk County and/or the State of Iowa.
      3.   Violating any provisions of this article.
      4.   Any type of fraud or deception.
      5.   Failure to cooperate with lawful requests of City officials.
      6.   Failure to provide accurate information at the time of application.
   B.   All appeals of a license denial, suspension or revocation will be heard
by the Waterloo City Council. (Ord. 5481, 2-4-2019)
3-4A-13: PENALTY:
Every person, agents, and employees of the licensee who violate any provisions
of this article shall upon conviction be guilty of a Municipal infraction and
fined as provided in subsection
1-3-2C of this Code. Each day a violation occurs shall constitute a separate
offense. (Ord. 5481, 2-4-2019)
ARTICLE B. SECONDHAND GOODS DEALERS
SECTION:
3-4B-1: Definitions
3-4B-2: Exemptions From Article
3-4B-3: Prerequisites To License
3-4B-4: Application For License
3-4B-5: Conditions Of License
3-4B-6: Firearms, Jewelry, And Precious Metals Records Register
3-4B-7: Inspections
3-4B-8: Police May Seize Property
3-4B-9: Holding Periods
3-4B-10: Prohibited Acts
3-4B-11: Denial, Suspension Or Revocation
3-4B-12: Penalty
3-4B-1: DEFINITIONS:
SECONDHAND GOODS DEALER: Any person, partnership, firm or corporation whose
business includes selling, buying or receiving any tangible personal property
previously owned, used, rented or leased. No person, partnership, firm or
corporation shall operate a secondhand goods dealership on the same premises as
that of a pawn business, nor shall said secondhand goods dealership be operated
under the pawnbroker licensee. (Ord. 4167, 5-13-1996)
3-4B-2: EXEMPTIONS FROM ARTICLE:
This article shall not apply to or include the following:
   A.   The sale of secondhand goods where all of the following are present:
      1.   The sale is held on property occupied as a dwelling by the seller or
owned, rented or leased by a charitable or political organization; i.e., yard
sale, garage sale or moving sale;
      2.   The items offered for sale are owned by the occupant or seller;
      3.   That no sale exceeds a period of ninety six (96) consecutive hours;
      4.   That no more than three (3) sales are held in any twelve (12) month
period;
      5.   That none of the items offered for sale shall have been purchased
for resale or received on consignment for purpose of resale.
   B.   The sale of secondhand books or magazines.
   C.   The sale of goods at an auction held by a licensed auctioneer.
   D.   A bulk sale of property from a merchant, manufacturer or wholesaler
having an established place of business or of goods sold at open sale from
bankrupt stock.
   E.   Goods sold at the public market, i.e., farmers' market, etc.
   F.   Goods sold at a bona fide antique, used furniture or used clothing
store, i.e., a business in which seventy five percent (75%) of the business's
revenue is derived through the sale of antiques, used furniture or used
clothes. (Ord. 4161, 4-8-1996)
3-4B-3: PREREQUISITES TO LICENSE:
   A.   Affidavit Of Compliance: Before any license required by this article
shall be issued, the applicant therefor shall file with the city clerk an
affidavit that the applicant will observe and carry out the requirements of any
provision of this code or other city ordinance in force at the time of
application, or any provision of this code or other city ordinance passed
thereafter and during the time the applicant's license is in force, in relation
to secondhand goods dealers or their business.
   B.   Surety Bond: Before any license shall be issued to any secondhand goods
dealer, the applicant for said license shall file a bond with the city clerk
signed by a solvent surety company authorized to execute such bonds under the
laws of the state and which is acceptable to the city, in a penalty sum of two
thousand dollars ($2,000.00), conditioned that they will comply with the
conditions and regulations contained in this article, and that they will pay
all fines, costs or penalties imposed for failure to do so. (Ord. 4161, 4-8-
1996)
3-4B-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any applicant for secondhand goods dealer's license must complete, in English,
an application form provided by the city clerk. The application form shall
contain the following information:
   A.   The full name, residential address, business address, date of birth,
and social security number of the applicant, and where the applicant is a
corporation or partnership, the foregoing information of the officers or
partners;
   B.   Designation of location, including street and number, where business is
to be transacted, plus name and address of the owner of premises;
   C.   Whether the applicant is a natural person, corporation or partnership:
      1.   If the applicant is a partnership, the names and addresses of all
partners;
      2.   If the applicant is a corporation, the state of incorporation and
the names and addresses of all officers and directors;
   D.   If the applicant is a natural person, the application shall be signed
and sworn to by the person; if a corporation, by an agent authorized to sign;
if a partnership, by a partner;
   E.   The name of the manager or proprietor of the business;
   F.   A statement by the applicant as to whether said applicant has ever been
convicted of any crime, except simple misdemeanor traffic violations. If any
person mentioned in this section has an arrest record, a statement must be made
providing the place and court of said conviction, the specific charge under
which the conviction was obtained, and the sentence imposed as a result of said
conviction;
   G.   A statement under penalty of perjury that the applicant has truthfully
and accurately reported all requested information in the application; that he
will comply with all of the laws of the United States, the state and the city;
   H.   Applicant shall provide the city clerk with any additional information
required by the city clerk involving the application;
   I.   The police department shall investigate the facts set forth in the
application and shall report to the city clerk its findings thereon. The
applicant shall furnish to the police department such evidence as it may
reasonably require in support of the statements set forth in the application.
(Ord. 4161, 4-8-1996)
3-4B-5: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Fee: The annual license fee shall be fifty dollars ($50.00).
   B.   Term: All licenses issued under this article shall expire one year
after the original date of issue.
   C.   Contents Of License: Upon full compliance with this article and, if
warranted, the city clerk shall issue to the applicant a license which states
the business to be transacted, the place or places where it is to be carried
on, the date of issue, and the time it will expire. All licenses shall be
numbered in the order in which they are issued, and the city clerk shall keep a
stub or duplicate thereof. No person shall engage in, or carry on, in the city,
the business of a secondhand goods dealer without paying the fee and procuring
a license provided in this article, nor shall any person carry on said business
in any manner contrary to the provisions of this article.
   D.   Includes Agents And Employees: The license shall be sufficient for all
clerks, agents and/or employees engaged or employed at each place named in the
license. Each clerk, agent or employee of any secondhand goods dealer shall be
subject to and bound by the provisions of this article and liable to the same
penalties and to the same extent as his employer or principal for any violation
thereof.
   E.   Display: The license provided for herein shall be valid only for the
location designated in the application, and shall be prominently displayed
therein at all times.
   F.   Change In Information: Upon any change in any of the information
required to be submitted as part of the application, licensee shall, within
three (3) days of such change, notify the city clerk of said change, in
writing, and in the event of a change of address for doing business, the
license shall be returned to the city clerk and an amended license issued
designating the new location. The amended license shall be valid for the length
of time remaining on the original license. (Ord. 4161, 4-8-1996)
3-4B-6: FIREARMS, JEWELRY, AND PRECIOUS METALS RECORDS REGISTER:
   A.   Record Required: On each firearm, item of jewelry or precious metal,
every secondhand goods dealer shall be required to keep a record register in
which the dealer shall accurately, intelligibly and in ink legibly enter in the
English language, at the time of purchasing or receiving any firearm, jewelry
or precious metal, the following:
      1.   The amount paid for the firearm, jewelry or precious metal;
      2.   A detailed, complete and accurate description of the firearm,
jewelry, or precious metal, including identifying marks;
      3.   The firearm's serial number and model number, if any;
      4.   The name of the person from whom the firearm, jewelry, or precious
metal is purchased or received, his signature, residence telephone number,
residence address, motor vehicle operator's license and state from which issued
or his social security number, said person's race and nationality; and
      5.   The date, time and place of the transaction.
   B.   Failing To Keep Records: Any person who shall fail to keep such
records, or fail to make the required entries therein, or shall intentionally
or knowingly make any false or unintelligible entry, or any entry which the
dealer has reason to believe is untrue, or who shall fail to make the inquiries
necessary to enable the dealer to make such entries or any of them, or who
shall fail to produce the records when requested, or who shall destroy or
negligently permit such records to be destroyed or lost, shall be guilty of a
simple misdemeanor. (Ord. 4962, 10-5-2009)
   C.   Copies To Police:
      1.   Any firearms, jewelry, or precious metal transactions made in the
course of the secondhand goods dealer's business shall require the secondhand
goods dealer to give the police a ticket upon which shall be printed or written
a copy of all entries required by this article to be made in the secondhand
goods dealer's register with reference to the transactions with such person,
for which ticket no charge shall be made by said secondhand goods dealer. The
secondhand goods dealer shall give to the police a ticket for each item upon
which shall be printed or written: name of secondhand goods shop, date/time of
purchase, article, brand, model number, serial number, description (including
identifying marks), customer name, address, city and state, date of birth,
social security number/driver's license number/state, sex, race, hair, eyes,
phone number, and customer signature. Said ticket shall be numbered
sequentially and reflect the effective year. All tickets shall be purchased
from city at cost, and any ticket not used shall be retained for inspection by
the appropriate city official. All tickets shall be retained for three hundred
sixty five (365) days from the issuing thereof. (Ord. 4962, 10-5-2009; amd.
Ord. 5179, 10-7-2013)
      2.   Each secondhand dealer shall deliver said tickets to the Waterloo
police department by Monday at four o'clock (4:00) P.M., or if said Monday is a
holiday, by four o'clock (4:00) P.M. on the next business day. (Ord. 5179, 10-
7-2013)
3-4B-7: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   The secondhand goods dealer shall at all times permit a duly authorized
officer of the city to inspect the entire premises covered by the license,
including all records that may have any relationship to the operation of the
secondhand goods business.
   B.   No licensee, his agent or employee, shall refuse, resist, or attempt to
prevent the chief of police or his designee from examining the licensed
premises for the purpose of discovering stolen property or any violation of
this article. (Ord. 4161, 4-8-1996)
3-4B-8: POLICE MAY SEIZE PROPERTY:
The police are authorized to seize property, with proper seizure notice, or
require the dealer to hold property which they have probable cause to believe
is stolen property. A receipt will be given to the secondhand goods dealer for
all property seized. If the police have not seized or picked up the property
within ten (10) days from the date of notification to the secondhand goods
dealer, said secondhand goods dealer may dispose of the property as he deems
appropriate. (Ord. 4161, 4-8-1996)
3-4B-9: HOLDING PERIODS:
Any firearm, jewelry, or precious metal received by a secondhand goods dealer
shall not be sold, transferred, altered, removed from the premises or otherwise
disposed of for thirty (30) days after the date of such report to the police.
This does not include merchandise purchased from wholesale vendors, provided
there is proof of such purchase. Failure to hold said items for the required
holding period shall be deemed a simple misdemeanor. (Ord. 4962, 10-5-2009)
3-4B-10: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Doing Business With Minors: No person under the age of eighteen (18)
years shall sell any item with any secondhand goods dealer, nor shall any
secondhand goods dealer receive any items from a person under the age of
eighteen (18) years. (Ord. 4161, 4-8-1996)
   B.   Identification Required: No dealer shall receive any firearm, jewelry,
or precious metal unless the seller presents one picture identification or two
(2) forms of other types of identification. Proper identification shall consist
of, but not be limited to, driver's license, picture ID, medicard, draft card
and/or major credit card. (Ord. 4962, 10-5-2009)
   C.   Display Of Goods: No goods or merchandise shall be stored or
continuously displayed on any public street, alley or public parking area. Any
goods or merchandise stored or displayed outside a fully enclosed building
shall be done so in an orderly and clean fashion so as not to create a
nuisance, as defined in state or local law, or stored or displayed in such a
manner as to provide a habitat or breeding area for rodents or insects. Goods
and merchandise stored or displayed outside, which are not designed to be
placed, freestanding, on the ground, shall be placed on racks or shelves. (Ord.
4161, 4-8-1996)
3-4B-11: DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
   A.   Any license under this article may be denied, suspended or revoked for
any of the following reasons:
      1.   The proposed use is in conflict with the Waterloo zoning ordinance;
      2.   The proposed use is in conflict with any health, building, building
maintenance or other provision of this code or state law;
      3.   Violation of any provision of this article;
      4.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made in securing a
license;
      5.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made in the course of
the applicant's business;
      6.   Failure to cooperate with all reasonable requests of any official of
the city.
   B.   Upon receipt of information alleging that grounds exist to deny,
suspend or revoke the secondhand goods dealer's license of any applicant or
licensee under this article, and after consultation with the legal department,
the city clerk shall report the circumstances to the city council, which in
such case shall cause a notice to be sent by ordinary mail to the applicant or
licensee at the address noted in the application. Said notice shall state that
a denial, suspension or revocation hearing has been set before the city
council, the grounds for the proposed denial, suspension or revocation, the
date and time of the hearing, and the place where the hearing will be
conducted. Upon such hearing, if the city council shall determine that one or
more of such grounds do exist, it may deny an application or suspend or revoke
an existing license. A suspension shall constitute a minimum period of fourteen
(14) calendar days during which period the licensee may not conduct any
business except for redemptions. In the event such license is revoked, no
secondhand goods dealer's license shall issue to the licensee for a period of
one year. (Ord. 4161, 4-8-1996)
3-4B-12: PENALTY:
Every person, his agents or employees, who shall violate any of the provisions
of this article shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a municipal
infraction and fined as provided in subsection
1-3-2C of this code. Each day a violation occurs shall constitute a separate
offense. (Ord. 4161, 4-8-1996; amd. 2001 Code)
ARTICLE C. PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
3-4C-1: Definitions
3-4C-2: Exemptions From Article
3-4C-3: Application For License
3-4C-4: Issuance Of License
3-4C-5: License Fees
3-4C-6: Conditions Of License
3-4C-7: Revocation Of License
3-4C-1: DEFINITIONS:
PEDDLER: Any person carrying goods or merchandise who sells or offers for sale
for immediate delivery such goods or merchandise or takes orders for goods,
subscriptions or merchandise to be delivered at a future date.
TRANSIENT MERCHANT: Any person who engages in a temporary or itinerant
merchandising business and in the course of such business, hires, leases or
occupies any building or structure whatsoever, or who operates out of a vehicle
which is parked anywhere within the city limits. Temporary association with a
local merchant, dealer, trader or auctioneer, or conduct of such transient
business in connection with, as a part of or in the name of any local merchant,
dealer, trader or auctioneer shall not exempt any person from being considered
a transient merchant. Merchandising shall include taking orders for future
delivery whether delivered at the location of the making of the sale or
delivered at a future date by any other means or at another place. (Ord. 4685,
4-12-2004)
3-4C-2: EXEMPTIONS FROM ARTICLE:
   A.   Peddlers: The provisions of this article shall not apply to persons who
offer for sale products of their own raising, and/or articles of their own
manufacture. It shall also not apply to persons delivering, collecting for or
selling subscriptions to newspapers; route delivery persons who make deliveries
at least weekly and who only incidentally solicit additional business to make
special sales.
   B.   Transient Merchants: The provisions of this article shall not apply to
persons who offer for sale products of their own raising and/or manufacture. It
shall also not apply to route delivery persons who make deliveries at least
weekly and who only incidentally solicit additional business or make special
sales. It shall also not apply to persons customarily calling upon businesses
and institutions for the purpose of selling products for resale or
institutional use or persons setting up display in any building or structure
for the purpose of exhibiting merchandise to those who customarily engage in
selling the same at retail. (Ord. 4685, 4-12-2004)
3-4C-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Licenses Required: No person shall carry on or engage in the business
of peddler, solicitor or transient merchant without first obtaining a license
therefor.
   B.   Contents Of Application: An application for a license shall be filed,
in writing, with the city clerk for a license under this article. Such
application shall set forth the applicant's name, permanent and local address,
business address, if any, and physical description. The application also shall
set forth the applicant's employer, if any, and the employer's address, and the
nature of the applicant's business. (Ord. 4685, 4-12-2004)
   C.   Investigative Fee: A fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) shall be paid at
the time of filing such application to cover the cost of investigating the
facts stated therein. (Ord. 4772, 5-2-2005)
3-4C-4: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   A bond is required before any license under this chapter shall be
issued to any transient merchant, the applicant for said license shall provide
to the city clerk evidence that the applicant has filed a bond with the
secretary of state in accordance with chapter 9C of the code of Iowa.
   B.   If the city clerk finds the application is made in conformance with
section
 3-4C-3 of this article, and the facts stated therein are correct, he/she shall
issue a license and charge a fee therefor as determined by section
3-4C-5 of this article. If the city clerk denies the application, the applicant
may appeal to the city council for a license. (Ord. 4685, 4-12-2004)
3-4C-5: LICENSE FEES:
 
Peddlers:
For 1 month or any part thereof $20.00
Transient Merchants:
For 1 day or any part thereof   45.00
 
(Ord. 4772, 5-2-2005)
3-4C-6: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Term Of License: A peddler's license will be valid for a period of one
month or any part thereof, and shall expire at eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. of the
last day for which the license is issued.
   B.   Display Of License: Each peddler shall at all times while doing
business in this city keep in his/her possession the license provided for in
section
3-4C-4 of this article, and shall, upon the request of prospective customers,
exhibit the license as evidence that he/she has complied with all requirements
of this section. Each transient merchant shall display publicly such merchant's
license in the merchant's place of business.
   C.   License Not Transferable: Licenses issued under the provisions of this
article are not transferable in any situation or location and are to be
applicable only to the person filing the application.
   D.   Limitation On Time For Peddling: No person shall peddle goods or
merchandise from eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. until eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. the
following day. (Ord. 4685, 4-12-2004)
3-4C-7: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The city council, after notice and hearing, may revoke any license issued under
this article where the licensee, in the application for the license or in the
course of conducting his/her business, has made fraudulent or incorrect
statements or has violated this article or has otherwise conducted his/her
business in an unlawful manner. Revocation of any license shall bar the
licensee from being eligible for any license under this chapter for a period of
one year from the date of revocation. (Ord. 4685, 4-12-2004)
ARTICLE D. SOLICITATION OF FUNDS
SECTION:
3-4D-1: Definitions
3-4D-2: Exemptions From Article
3-4D-3: License Required
3-4D-4: Application For License
3-4D-5: Issuance Of License
3-4D-6: Conditions Of License
3-4D-7: Solicitation For Religious Purposes
3-4D-8: Validated Licenses
3-4D-9: Revocation Of License
3-4D-1: DEFINITIONS:
PERSON: In reference to licensing and solicitation shall be synonymous with the
word "organization" except where the context clearly shows another meaning.
SOLICITOR OF FUNDS: Any person or organization, excepting those listed in
section
3-4D-2 of this article, who shall solicit contributions of funds personally or
through an authorized employee, agent or representative by the direct
solicitation of money or by the sale of tags, buttons or tokens of nominal
value, intending that all or a substantial portion of such funds be used for
the procurement of necessities for one or more individuals, or for medical,
educational, religious or other purposes toward the benefit of the community or
a needful segment thereof. (Ord. 2983, 8-7-1978)
3-4D-2: EXEMPTIONS FROM ARTICLE:
Except as they pertain to activities governed by this article, the terms
"solicitor of funds", "solicit funds" and "solicitation of funds" shall not
pertain to or include:
   A.   A person holding a valid state solicitation license;
   B.   Any organization soliciting contributions from among its membership or
employees;
   C.   Any organization soliciting contributions while the solicitor and the
person solicited are located upon property owned by that organization;
   D.   Solicitation of contributions by mail;
   E.   Solicitation of contributions by a person located outside the corporate
limits of the city who is initiating solicitation of residents of the city, so
long as such solicitation does not take the form of telephone or other direct
personal solicitation by such person or his representative of individuals in
the city; or
   F.   Solicitation for contributions of funds for a political party or
candidate. (Ord. 2983, 8-7-1978)
3-4D-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person or organization shall conduct a solicitation of funds as defined in
this article excepting a solicitation of funds for a religious cause or
purposes, without having first obtained a license as provided in this article.
(Rev. Ord. 1540, Comp. 1941, p. L-4; amd. Ord. 2821, 5-24-1976; Ord. 2983, 8-7-
1978)
3-4D-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any person applying for a license to conduct a solicitation of funds, excepting
solicitation of funds for a religious cause or purpose, shall make a written
application therefor to the city clerk, who shall refer the completed
application to the city council. No license shall be issued unless authorized
by the city council upon an application which shall contain the following
information:
   A.   Name of applicant and the organization he represents;
   B.   Purpose of the solicitation or purpose of the organization;
   C.   Location and address of the general headquarters of the organization
and of any headquarters or person through which the organization locally
operates;
   D.   Names and addresses of the officers of the organization;
   E.   Names of the persons having charge of the solicitation and the
estimated number of persons who will be directly soliciting funds;
   F.   Proposed amount of funds to be raised by the solicitation, and the
methods of soliciting or raising the funds proposed; if the organization
proposes an on-going solicitation, then only the methods of soliciting funds
need be listed;
   G.   Percentage of gross collections in the city which will be used to pay
solicitors of funds, other solicitation costs and expenses of the local
organization, and the amount of percentage of such gross collections which will
be paid to the local organization or to the national organization, where
applicable, and not directly applied to the purpose of the solicitation; if
solicitors are paid a salary or percentage of gross collections, then the
number and amount of such salary or percentage shall also be listed; if a set
percentage or dollar amount of the amount to be collected will be disbursed or
distributed elsewhere than in the city, such percentage or amount shall be
estimated and set forth;
   H.   The method by which funds raised in the city will be distributed;
   I.   The name and address of the local person or officer to whom action on
the application by the city council and other city correspondence with the
organization may be sent; any change in such name or address after issuance of
a license shall be filed with the city clerk, to permit that information to
remain as current as practicable;
   J.   Such other and further information as may be required by the city
council to aid the city council in determining whether or not the application
shall be approved. (Ord. 2983, 8-7-1978)
3-4D-5: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Upon the city council determining that a person applying for a license has
complied with the terms of this article, that the solicitation so described is
in the best interests of the residents of the city, and that the other sections
of this article and ordinances of the city will be obeyed in the conduct of the
solicitations so described, it shall issue a license to solicit funds. Failure
to so make one or more of the above findings shall be grounds for the city
council to deny such license. The methods of solicitation and of the
expenditure and distribution of funds and the period of solicitation set forth
in the application, as verified by the city council, shall be deemed to be
incorporated into and shall become a part of the license for that person. (Ord.
2983, 8-7-1978)
3-4D-6: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   License Fee: The applicant shall pay a license fee in the amount of ten
dollars ($10.00) to the city clerk at the time of filing application, and again
at any time thereafter when corrective information such as that described in
subsection C of this section is thereafter provided to the city clerk. In the
event the initial application, or the application with such corrective
information, is disapproved by the city council, such fee shall be retained by
the city.
   B.   Bond: The applicant shall be required to file bond only in those
instances when the city council, upon investigation, determines that
insufficient information of local operations by the person or organization
conducting the solicitation has been given to the city council to permit a
determination of the propriety of the manner of solicitation of funds by the
organization, or of the adherence of the organization conducting such
solicitation to this article or to other ordinances or laws, or of the proper
distribution of funds so raised. In such event, before authorizing issuance of
a license, the city council may require a corporate bond to be executed and
delivered to the city in the penal sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00),
conditioned upon the faithful handling and distribution of the funds so raised,
and upon the funds being solicited in the manner specified in the application
and not contrary to this article or other city ordinances or state law. After a
period of operation under a license, but not sooner than six (6) months after
its issuance, the licensee may request that the city council relieve it of the
requirement of bond; and, in its discretion, the city council may so act or may
continue the period of bond until a later date.
   C.   Duration Of License: The license issued by the city council shall be
issued in the name of the organization, shall embody the particular information
contained in the application therefor and shall be valid until revoked by the
city council, invalidated as described in this subsection, or turned in by the
licensee, whichever event shall occur first in time. Such license shall permit
the licensee to solicit for contributions of funds in the city so long as the
name and makeup of the organization, the goals and purposes thereof, the manner
and method of solicitation and the proposed distribution of the gross
collections remains the same as stated in the application; if any of those
particulars change, the license shall become and remain invalid until the
applicant has submitted the pertinent corrective information to the city clerk
for approval by the city council, which approval shall again validate the
current license.
   D.   Soliciting From Vehicles And Booths: No person shall solicit funds from
a person situated in a motor vehicle, on public or private property. The
erection, maintenance and use of any stand, booth or similar structure in
connection with any solicitation in a public street, alley or other public
property is prohibited unless specifically authorized by the city council as to
location, size of structure and the period within which such structure will be
so located and operated. Such authorization may be granted by the city council
in the event the applicant agrees to hold the city harmless from any claim or
liability for damages or injury resulting from the erection, maintenance,
operation or removal of such structure.
   E.   Minors: Persons under eighteen (18) years of age may solicit funds
under a license issued pursuant to this article only when such solicitation is
conducted under the guidance and supervision of an adult.
   F.   Streets And Vehicles; Public Property:
      1.   No person shall solicit funds upon or immediately adjacent to that
portion of any street, alley, driveway access or public way in the city which
is available for or normally used for vehicular travel.
      2.   No person shall solicit funds in the locations as described in
subsections
 3-4D-7E and F of this article without obtaining approval from the mayor or his
representative of the proposed locations, the number of solicitors, and the
timing and the manner of such solicitation.
   G.   Private Property: No person shall solicit funds on private property
where the owner of person in possession has posted a sign or signs which
prohibit solicitation of funds or has otherwise specifically forbidden such
solicitation generally or by the organization attempting same.
   H.   Hours Of Solicitation: No person shall solicit funds on public property
or private property from eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. until eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M. the following day, except in connection with, during and as part of
attendance at a public or private social, civic or religious event. (Ord. 2983,
8-7-1978)
3-4D-7: SOLICITATION FOR RELIGIOUS PURPOSES:
   A.   Persons or organizations who propose to solicit contributions of funds,
as described in section
3-4D-1 of this article, in the city for a religious cause or a religious
purpose or for the perpetuation of religious views or systems do not need to
obtain a license but must, prior to soliciting, register with the city clerk,
on a form provided by the city clerk for that purpose, and the registration
form shall demand the following from the person or organization:
      1.   Name of applicant and the organization he represents;
      2.   The address of its local and, if applicable, its national
headquarters, and the name, address and telephone number of the person or
persons who shall be in charge of the local solicitation efforts;
      3.   The purpose of the solicitation or purpose of the organization;
      4.   The names of the principal officers of the organization and the name
of the person in charge of the local solicitation efforts;
      5.   A list of the methods of soliciting and raising funds;
      6.   A list of method of distribution of those funds solicited;
      7.   The percentage of gross collections to be distributed locally and
the gross percentage of the collections to be returned to the national
headquarters, if any.
If any one or more of these items of information shall change during the period
of solicitation in the city, such change shall be registered with the city
clerk by a person acting for and on behalf of the organization.
   B.   Each person soliciting other persons for contribution of funds for a
purpose described in subsection A of this section must carry identification,
issued by the registering person or organization, if any, under which the
solicitation effort is registered with the city clerk.
   C.   Failure of compliance with subsections A and B of this section shall be
deemed a violation of this article and, in addition to other legal remedy,
failure of compliance with subsection A or B of this section shall be cause for
prohibition of further solicitation by the person or organization in the city
until the terms of that subsection are met.
   D.   Persons who propose to solicit funds, for purposes described in this
section, within or directly adjacent to city-owned buildings may do so in such
locations and in such manner as will permit the orderly conduct of public
business.
   E.   Persons who propose to solicit funds, for purposes described in this
section, in public ways or other city-owned property, exclusive of that
described in subsection 3-4D-6F of this article, may do so in such locations
and in such manner as will permit the lawful and peaceful enjoyment thereof by
the general public.
   F.   No person shall commence solicitation as described in subsections D and
E of this section without obtaining approval from the mayor or his
representative of the proposed locations, the number of solicitors and the time
and the manner of such solicitation.
   G.   The provisions of subsections
3-4D-6D through H of this article shall apply to the persons and organizations
described in this section.
   H.   Failure to comply with section
3-4D-6 of this article and this section by any person or organization shall
give the city the right to bar further solicitation by that person or
organization until the requirements under this article are met in full. (Ord.
2983, 8-7-1978)
3-4D-8: VALIDATED LICENSES:
Any person in whose name a license was issued authorizing the solicitation of
funds in the city within one year prior to the effective date of this article
shall be issued a license pursuant to this article by the city clerk without
fee or bond or further city council authorization upon the return of the
license so heretofore issued to such person to the city clerk for cancellation,
accompanied by an application containing the information specified in section
3-4D-4 of this article. Any person who was otherwise authorized by ordinance to
solicit funds in the city within one year prior to the effective date hereof
may be similarly issued a license pursuant to this article upon filing an
application containing the specified information. (Ord. 2983, 8-7-1978)
3-4D-9: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
In the event the city council is advised of circumstances indicating that the
terms of its license or the terms of this article have been violated by the
holder of a license granted under the terms of this article, the city council
may cause notice to be mailed to the person whose name and address are shown by
the organization's most recent filing to be the proper person, demanding that
such person or other representative of the license holder appear for hearing at
a set time, date and place to show cause why the license should not be revoked.
After such hearing, if the city council shall conclude that a violation has
occurred and that the license should be revoked, it may revoke the license, and
no further solicitation of funds shall be conducted in the city by or on behalf
of that organization for a period of at least one year. For purposes of this
section, the actions of authorized employees, agents or representatives of a
licensed organization in conducting solicitation of funds shall be deemed the
actions of the organization. The actions available to the city council pursuant
to this section are in addition to such other actions as are available for
violation of city ordinances. (Ord. 2983, 8-7-1978)
ARTICLE E. DISTRESS SALES
SECTION:
3-4E-1: Definitions
3-4E-2: Exemptions From Article
3-4E-3: Licensing Authority
3-4E-4: License Required
3-4E-5: Application For License
3-4E-6: Conditions Of License
3-4E-7: License Fees
3-4E-8: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
3-4E-9: Revocation Of License
3-4E-10: Violation; Penalty
3-4E-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed
to them:
CLOSING-OUT SALE: The sale or an offer to sell at retail to the public, goods,
wares and merchandise of any and all kinds and descriptions on hand and in
stock in connection with a declared purpose, as set forth by advertising, on
the part of the seller, that the sale is anticipatory to the termination,
closing, liquidation, revision, wind-up, discontinuance, moving, conclusion or
abandonment of the business in connection with the sale; it shall also include
any sale advertised, either specifically or in substance, to be an "adjustment
sale", "creditor's sale", "trustee's sale", "bankrupt sale", "insolvent sale",
"insurance salvage sale", "mortgage sale", "assignee sale", "adjustor's sale",
"receiver's sale", "loss of lease sale", "forced out of business sale", "going
out of business sale", "removal sale", and any and all sales advertised in such
a manner as to reasonably convey to the public that upon the disposal of the
stock of goods on hand, the business will cease and be discontinued at its
existing location.
LICENSE: A license issued pursuant to this article.
LICENSEE: Any person to whom a license has been issued pursuant to this
article.
PUBLISH, PUBLISHING, ADVERTISEMENT, ADVERTISING: Any and all means of conveying
to the public notice of a sale or notice of an intention to conduct a sale,
whether by word of mouth, by newspaper advertisement, by magazine
advertisement, by handbill, by circular, by pamphlet, by written notice, by
printed notice, by printed display, by billboard display, by poster, by radio
announcement, by radio program, by recordings, or any and all means, including
oral, written or printed.
RESIDENT MERCHANT: A merchant who has maintained an established place of retail
business within the city for the sale at retail of goods, similar to those to
be sold at the sale described in this section, for a continuous period of one
year or more directly preceding the opening date of the sale.
TRANSIENT MERCHANT: Any merchant doing or contemplating doing business in the
city, and who is not a "resident merchant", as defined in this section. (Rev.
Ord. 1952, Comp. 1941, p. P-33)
3-4E-2: EXEMPTIONS FROM ARTICLE:
The provisions of this article shall not apply to or effect the following
persons or sales:
   A.   Persons acting pursuant to an order or process of a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   B.   Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public
officers, such as sheriffs, bailiffs or marshals.
   C.   Duly licensed auctioneers, selling at auctions.
   D.   Executors, guardians, assignees of insolvent debtors, bankrupts, or
other persons required by law to sell said property. (Rev. Ord. 1952, Comp.
1941, p. P-33)
3-4E-3: LICENSING AUTHORITY:
The city council is hereby authorized and empowered to supervise or regulate
closing-out sales, and to issue appropriate licenses therefor upon the proper
application for a license, and to provide for the investigation of applications
therefor and for the issuance of licenses thereon by the necessary officer.
(Rev. Ord. 1952, Comp. 1941, p. P-33)
3-4E-4: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall hereafter publish or conduct any closing-out sale without first
obtaining a license therefor, and remaining in effect and unrevoked. (Rev. Ord.
1952, Comp. 1941, p. P-33)
3-4E-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   First License: Application for a license shall be made in writing to
the city clerk on a form to be approved by the city council, and shall be
verified by the applicant. Upon receipt of the application and payment of the
fee prescribed by this article, the city council shall cause the application to
be examined and investigated. The application shall contain the following
information:
      1.   A description of the place where the closing-out sale is to be held.
      2.   The nature of the occupancy of the premises, whether by ownership,
lease or sublease.
      3.   The effective date of the termination of the occupancy.
      4.   The means to be employed in publishing the sale.
      5.   The proposed language to be used in the advertisements to indicate
the nature of the sale.
      6.   A statement of the intention of the applicant for the license in
holding the sale.
      7.   A statement in what manner the descriptive name for the sale is, in
fact, descriptive of the sale.
      8.   A statement as to whether or not any merchandise of any kind,
quantity or description has been purchased by or delivered to the applicant for
the purpose of being included in the sale.
      9.   A statement that applicant agrees not to purchase or accept delivery
of any merchandise, goods or wares of any kind, nature or description to be
sold at the sale after the date of the application.
   B.   Renewal License: Any licensee who desires a renewal license pursuant to
this article shall make application for the renewal license in writing to the
city clerk on a form to be approved by the city council, and which shall be
verified by the licensee. The application shall contain the following
information:
      1.   A description of the place where the closing-out sale is to be held.
      2.   The nature of the occupancy of the premises, whether by ownership,
lease or sublease.
      3.   The effective date of termination of the occupancy.
      4.   The means to be employed in publishing the sale.
      5.   The proposed language to be used in the advertisements to indicate
the nature of the sale.
      6.   A statement of the intention of the applicant in holding the sale.
      7.   A statement in what manner the descriptive name is, in fact,
descriptive of such sale.
      8.   A statement as to whether or not any merchandise of any kind,
quantity or description has been purchased by or delivered to the applicant for
the purpose of being included in the sale.
      9.   A statement that the applicant agrees not to purchase or accept
delivery of any merchandise, goods or wares of any kind, nature or description
to be sold at the sale after the date of the application.
      10.   The approximate proportion of the original inventory on hand at the
time of commencing the sale that still remains on hand and unsold. (Rev. Ord.
1952, Comp. 1941, p. P-33)
3-4E-6: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Surety Bond Prerequisite: Before a license shall be issued by the city
council, the applicant for the license shall execute and deliver to the city a
bond in the penal sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) signed by the
applicant, and also signed by a surety company duly authorized to transact
business in the state, which bond shall be conditioned upon the faithful
observance of the provisions of this article, and also conditioned to reimburse
and indemnify any purchaser at the closing-out sale held by the applicant for
any loss incurred or damage sustained by the purchaser by reason of
misrepresentation or fraud in the sale of any such goods, wares or merchandise.
   B.   Required Findings: If, upon investigation, the facts as represented by
the application for the license are found to conform to the representations on
the application; if the reason given for the sale is satisfactory; if there
appears to have been no stockpiling of merchandise for sale; there has been no
fraud or deception in the application; and the advertisements proposed to be
used truly represent the facts and are not fraudulent or misleading to the
public, the city council may issue a license permitting the publication and
conduct of the sale.
   C.   Term Of License:
      1.   A license shall be valid for a period not exceeding sixty (60) days,
except that upon satisfactory proof by the licensee that the stock on hand at
the time of the original application has not been disposed of, upon proper
application, the city council shall cause the same to be examined and
investigated; and if it is satisfied as to the truth of the statements
contained in the renewal application, the city council may issue a renewal
license for one or more consecutive periods of thirty (30) days duration upon
payment of the renewal fees therefor.
      2.   Upon the termination of the closing-out sale, no license shall be
issued to the licensee applicant for the period of one year from the closing-
out sale.
   D.   License And Stock List Displayed: Upon commencement of closing-out
sale, the license shall be permanently displayed near the entrance to the
premises. A duplicate original of the application for the license, and the
stock list pursuant to which a license was issued, shall at all times be
available to the city council or to the inspector, and the licensee shall
permit the inspector to examine all merchandise on the premises for comparison
with the stock list at any and all times during the period of the sale.
   E.   Advertisements: All advertisements or advertising, and the language
contained therein, shall be in accordance with the purpose of the sale as
stated in the application pursuant to which the license was issued, and the
wording of the advertisement shall not vary from the wording as indicated in
the application. The advertising shall contain a statement in these words:
"Sale held pursuant to License No.            of the City of Waterloo, Iowa,
granted the            day of            20     ;" and in such blank spaces
shall be indicated the license number and the requisite dates.
   F.   Books And Records: Books and records of the sale shall be kept by the
licensee and shall at all times be available to the inspector. (Rev. Ord. 1952,
Comp. 1941, p. P-33)
3-4E-7: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Upon the filing of an application for an original license, the
applicant therefor shall pay the following fees:
      1.   If the applicant is a resident merchant, the following fees shall be
charged:
 
Value Of Stock Of Goods On Hand        License Fee
$5,000.00 or less                         $ 30.00
$5,000.00 but not more than $15,000.00     60.00
In excess of $15,000.00                    100.00
 
      2.   If the applicant is a transient merchant, the following fees shall
be charged:
 
Value Of Stock Of Goods On Hand        License Fee
$5,000.00 or less                         $150.00
$5,000.00 but not more than $15,000.00     300.00
In excess of $15,000.00                    500.00
 
   B.   If any application or renewal application is disapproved, one-half (1/
2) of the license fee paid shall be retained by the city as and for the cost of
investigating the statements made in the application or renewal application.
   C.   The license fee for each thirty (30) day renewal period shall be one-
half (1/2) of the respective fee for an original license.
   D.   All inventory figures set out in this section shall be computed at the
applicant's cost price. (Rev. Ord. 1952, Comp. 1941, p. P-33)
3-4E-8: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Fraudulent Or Misleading Advertising: It shall be unlawful for a
licensee to advertise or cause to be advertised, goods, wares, or merchandise,
for a closing-out sale, which do not conform to the representations of the
advertisement. It shall be unlawful for a licensee to publish, or cause to be
published, advertising falsely representing the reason for a closing-out sale.
   B.   Increasing Inventory: It shall be unlawful for any licensee publishing
or conducting a closing-out sale, to purchase or add to the stock of goods
offered for sale, any goods during the closing-out sale or during the effective
period of the license, or to sell any goods at the closing-out sale except
those on hand at the time of application for the license. (Rev. Ord. 1952,
Comp. 1941, p. P-33)
3-4E-9: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
If at any time during a closing-out sale, the city council shall determine that
any of the provisions hereof or any of the statements in the application for
the license were untrue, or have been or are being violated by the licensee,
the city council may immediately revoke the license, and it shall thenceforth
be unlawful for the licensee to continue the sale until a new license is issued
in accordance with the terms of this article. (Rev. Ord. 1952, Comp. 1941, p.
P-33)
3-4E-10: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any applicant for a license, or any licensee who shall violate, neglect or
refuse to comply with any of the provisions of this article, or who shall make
a false statement in any application for a license, shall be guilty of an
offense, and upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in the general
penalty in Section
1-3-1 of this code, and any license issued shall be revoked. (Rev. Ord. 1952,
Comp. 1941, p. P-33)
ARTICLE F. MOBILE FOOD BUSINESS
SECTION:
3-4F-1: Definitions
3-4F-2: License Required
3-4F-3: Exemption From License
3-4F-4: Application For License
3-4F-5: Issuance Of License
3-4F-6: Conditions Of License
3-4F-7: Transferability Of License
3-4F-8: Mobile Food Business On Public Property
3-4F-9: Mobile Food Business On Private Property
3-4F-10: Mobile Food Business At Special Events And Carnivals
3-4F-11: Hours Of Sale
3-4F-12: Insurance
3-4F-13: Music, Light, And Sound Making Devices
3-4F-14: Litter
3-4F-15: Appeal
3-4F-16: Denial, Suspension, Or Revocation Of License
3-4F-17: Penalty
3-4F-1: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Mobile Food Vendor: A person or their employee engaged in the business
of selling food or beverages from a mobile food unit.
   B.   Mobile Food Unit: A mobile food unit is defined as one of the
following:
      1.   Food Truck: Any type of movable vehicle (motorized or self-
propelled, including bicycles and scooters) driven to a location and used for
vending food or beverage items to the public.
      2.   Food Cart: A non-self-propelled unit, including wagons and trailers,
pushed or pulled to a location, and used for vending food or beverage items to
the public.
   C.   Mobile Food Business: Any mobile food vendor, licensed as a food
establishment, and engaged in selling food or beverages from a mobile food
unit.
   D.   Catering Business: A business, social, or home catering service
providing food and incidental services for a social affair, event, or for a
private dwelling, which does not engage in the sale of food or beverage to
individually paying patrons. (Ord. 5614, 8-16-2021)
3-4F-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Mobile Food Business License: It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in
the sale of food or beverages to the public from a mobile food unit within the
city without first obtaining a license from the city, in addition to any other
state or county permits, certifications, and licenses. (Ord. 5614, 8-16-2021)
3-4F-3: EXEMPTION FROM LICENSE:
The following shall be exempt from this article:
   A.   Catering businesses as defined in Section
3-4F-1.
   B.   Concession stands associated with sports or recreational venues.
   C.   Persons who offer for sale unprocessed whole food of their own raising,
such as farm stands or farmers market vendors.
   D.   A stand operated by a minor as defined by Section 137F.1(8)(n) of Iowa
Code.
   E.   Route delivery persons who make deliveries at least weekly to fulfill
customer orders. Route delivery persons who incidentally solicit additional
business or make special sales shall be required to obtain a license.
   F.   Grilling and food preparation activities of brick and mortar
establishments for immediate consumption by patrons or employees on the
establishment premises.
   G.   Brick and mortar establishments delivering orders to customers. (Ord.
5614, 8-16-2021)
3-4F-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.    Contents Of Application: Applicants for a license under this article
shall complete and submit to the city clerk an application, fee, and supporting
documentation, all of which shall include but not be limited to the following
information:
      1.   The full name, permanent address, and phone number of the applicant,
along with at least one form of identification that includes a photograph of
the applicant. The name, address, phone number, and identification that
includes a photograph of an employee or manager serving as a local contact.
       2.   The address of all locations where the applicant will operate.
      3.   If operating a motor vehicle as part of the mobile food business,
proof of a current operator's license.
      4.   If operating from a vehicle, the make, model, year, state of
registration and license plate number of the vehicle. Each mobile food unit
must be listed on the application.
      5.   A photograph of the mobile food unit and a diagram showing the
mobile food unit in relation to other removable equipment to be used by the
mobile food business, including seating and trash receptacles. The diagram
should include the square footage of the space the mobile food business would
propose to occupy.
      6.   Plans for disposal of liquid and solid waste and other material used
in conjunction with the mobile food business.
      7.   A copy of an Iowa Sales Tax Permit.
      8.   Proof of valid food service license(s) from the state and/or county
health departments if selling/handling food and/or beverages for human
consumption.
       9.   A certificate of insurance and indemnification agreement as
required in Section
3-4F-12 of this article.
      10.   Application Fee: One hundred dollars ($100.00) for a thirty (30)-
calendar day license or three-hundred fifty ($350.00) for a one year license.
   B.   Filing: Applications shall be filed with the city clerk's office. No
application shall be accepted for filing and processing unless it conforms to
the requirements of this article. This includes a complete and true
application, all of the required materials and information prescribed, and the
appropriate application fee. The city clerk may charge an applicant a twenty
dollar ($20.00) fee for filing an incomplete application or for failing to file
an application on time.
   C.   Timely Filing: An application must be filed with the city clerk's
office not less than fifteen (15) calendar days prior to the commencement of
business or, for license renewals, the expiration date of the mobile food
business license. The city reserves the right to reject any application not
filed in a timely manner.
   D.   Investigation: Upon receipt of the complete application as required by
this article, the city clerk shall forward the application to the police
department, fire department, and planning and zoning for investigation and
either recommend to the city clerk denial or approval of the license. A
recommendation for denial shall be delivered in writing to the city clerk
explaining reasons for the denial. If the application is denied as a result of
an investigation conducted pursuant to this subsection, the applicant may
appeal the denial pursuant to Section
3-4F-15.
       1.   The police chief or a designee shall conduct an investigation of
the applicant as deemed necessary for the protection of the public health,
safety, welfare, and good. The police chief or designee may require the
applicant and employee or manager serving as a local contact to submit a sealed
Iowa DCI background check to facilitate the investigation. The police chief or
designee shall make a determination as to the applicant's character and
business responsibility and whether issuing such license would harm the public
good.
      2.   The fire marshal or designee shall inspect the mobile food unit for
conformance to the International Fire Code.
      3.   Planning and Zoning Department shall review the application for
conformance to Ordinance No. 5079, City of Waterloo Zoning Ordinance. (Ord.
5614, 8-16-2021)
3-4F-5: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   If the city clerk finds the application is complete, fully executed,
and made in conformance with Section 3-3F-4 of this article, the application
fee and all outstanding fees owed to the city are paid, and upon investigation
the facts stated therein are correct, the city clerk shall issue the license.
If the city clerk denies the application, the applicant may appeal to the city
council.
   B.   Term Of License: Licensees may choose to license their mobile food
business for an annual or monthly term. An annual mobile food business license
shall be valid for a period of one year. A monthly license shall be valid for a
period of thirty (30) calendar days. A new application shall be timely filed
prior to the expiration date of any mobile food business license. (Ord. 5614,
8-16-2021)
3-4F-6: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Fire department inspection required:
      1.   All mobile food units that have cooking facilities or use products
with grease-laden vapors (class III and class IV state licenses) shall be
inspected by the fire department prior to initiation of business operations
within the city.
      2.   Inspections shall be required once annually and occur prior to the
issuance of any new or renewed mobile food business license. It shall be the
obligation of the mobile food vendor to schedule the inspection with the fire
marshal or their designee and make the mobile food unit available for
inspection or re-inspection. Class I and II state license classifications are
not required to meet this inspection requirement.
      3.   All class III and IV mobile food units shall have an appropriate
fire suppression system, as determined by the fire marshal.
   B.   Display Of License: Each mobile food business shall display such
license issued by the city clerk. The license shall be displayed on the mobile
food unit in a location easily viewable by the public. The license shall
include a license number, the name and permanent address of the licensee, along
with locations approved for conducting business.
   C.   Change In Application Information: Upon any change in any of the
information required to be submitted as part of the application, the licensee
shall, within seven (7) days of such change, notify the city clerk in writing
and provide the updated information. In the event the mobile food business
wishes to conduct business at a location not listed on the license, the license
shall be returned to the city clerk's office and, upon site approval, an
amended license issued listing the new location. The amended license shall be
valid for the length of time remaining on the original license.
   D.   Fee: The fees listed in section
3-4F-4 shall be paid prior to the issuance of the license. Fees for said
license are not refundable. (Ord. 5614, 8-16-2021)
3-4F-7: TRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE:
A license issued under the provisions of this article is not transferable in
any situation to any person and is only applicable to the person filing the
application. The license is not transferrable to any location and the licensee
shall only conduct business at locations listed on the license. (Ord. 5614, 8-
16-2021)
3-4F-8: MOBILE FOOD BUSINESS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
A mobile food business operating on public property shall be subject to the
following:
   A.   Mobile food businesses shall be limited to hard-surfaced areas.
   B.   No mobile food business shall operate within a parking lot directly
adjacent to, or with direct access to, a concession stand while said concession
stand is in operation.
   C.   Mobile food businesses may operate on the parking stall of a metered
parking lot. The mobile food business shall be limited to obstructing parking
stalls of two (2) parking meters and must obtain and pay for parking meter
hoods from city parking services.
   D.   Mobile food businesses operating on city property shall be limited to
hours of operation set by the City of Waterloo.
   E.   Mobile food units shall only conduct business each day during the hours
listed in Section
3-4F-11. The mobile food business must remove the mobile food unit, equipment,
and garbage from city property each day.
   F.   Mobile food businesses shall be prohibited from operating within city
right-of-way. Mobile food unit businesses shall be prohibited from operating on
or on a portion of the traveled portion of a street or sidewalk. Mobile food
businesses shall not operate on a parking stall of a traveled street.
   G.   Requests to operate on city park or golf course property, Riverloop
Amphitheater, Mark's Park, Expo Plaza, Center for the Arts, Waterloo Boat
House, or any other city owned property or facilities shall be approved by the
appropriate department director or designee. Proposed dates of operation shall
be included on the application form and reviewed by the appropriate department.
   H.   Requests to operate on public property may be denied due to a lack of
available or suitable infrastructure, unsuitable ground conditions, conflict
with a scheduled event, public health or safety concerns, competition with city
or golf course food sales, or any other reasonable cause. An applicant may
appeal a denial pursuant to Section
3-4F-16. (Ord. 5614, 8-16-2021)
3-4F-9: MOBILE FOOD BUSINESS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   No mobile food business shall operate within or upon private property
without a mobile food business license pursuant to this article.
   B.   The city reserves the right to require a mobile food business to change
its location in the event public safety, congestion, or sanitation so requires.
   C.   Any mobile food businesses operating on private property shall do so in
accordance with the zoning regulations set forth in Ordinance No. 5079, City of
Waterloo Zoning Ordinance.
   D.   No mobile food vendor shall conduct business in such a way as would
restrict or interfere with the ingress or egress of the abutting property owner
or tenant; create or become a public nuisance; create traffic congestion or
delay; constitute a hazard to life, health or property; or obstruct adequate
access for fire, police, sanitation or emergency vehicles.
   E.   No mobile food business shall sell or attempt to sell on or within any
portion of a street, sidewalk, or right-of-way.
   F.   Property Owner/Lessee Responsibility: By allowing the mobile food
business on their property, the property owner and lessee jointly with the
mobile food business are responsible for compliance with this article. The
property owner and lessee shall ensure the safety of pedestrians and access of
emergency vehicles to and around the site. Failure to do so may result in the
property owner or lessee being party to enforcement actions or penalties
allowed by state law and city code.
   G.   Mobile food units shall only conduct business each day during the hours
listed in Section
3-4F-11. (Ord. 5614, 8-16-2021)
3-4F-10: MOBILE FOOD BUSINESS AT SPECIAL EVENTS AND CARNIVALS:
   A.   All mobile food vendors conducting business as part of a special event
held on city property shall be inspected by the fire department prior to the
start of the event. If a mobile food vendor is only conducting business at the
special event, the vendor is not required to obtain a mobile food business
license.
   B.   A mobile food business shall not operate on public or private property
within two (2) city blocks of the perimeter of a special event, during the
scheduled special event hours of operation, unless specifically included as
part of said special event. For the purposes of this section, affected blocks
are any city block or portion thereof for which the special event has
reasonably designated as its perimeter.
   C.   A mobile food business shall only conduct business within the hours the
special event occurs each day. (Ord. 5614, 8-16-2021)
3-4F-11: HOURS OF SALE:
Sales each day shall be prohibited between the hours of ten o’clock (10:00)
P.M. and seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. A mobile food business may vend outside of
these hours only if conducting business in conjunction with a special event
open to the public. (Ord. 5614, 8-16-2021)
3-4F-12: INSURANCE:
   A.   All mobile food businesses shall provide proof of and maintain current
commercial general liability insurance having a minimum combined single limit
of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00). Current auto insurance must be listed
on the certificate if operating a motor vehicle. If the licensee employs
persons within the city, Workers' Compensation coverage of no less than the
statutory requirement. A certificate of insurance shall be delivered to the
city clerk prior to the issuance of a license. The certificate of insurance
shall list the City of Waterloo and its elected and appointed officials,
officers, employees, and agents as named additional insureds on a primary and
non-contributory basis, including a waiver of subrogation in favor of city,
against any liabilities that may arise in connection with the operation of the
mobile food business.
   B.   Apart from and separate from any insurance required under this section,
the mobile food businesses shall agree in writing to indemnify, defend, and
hold the City of Waterloo and its assignees and employees harmless from all
losses, damages, injuries, claims, demands, and expenses in a manner resulting
from or arising out of the licensed operation of the mobile food businesses.
(Ord. 5614, 8-16-2021)
3-4F-13: MUSIC, LIGHT, AND SOUND MAKING DEVICES:
The use of music, bright flashing light, or sound making devices, including
loud speakers or amplifiers, is prohibited. (Ord. 5614, 8-16-2021)
3-4F-14: LITTER:
A mobile food business shall be responsible for keeping their area free of
trash or litter, and collecting and removing daily all garbage, litter, and
other debris in its immediate vicinity. The mobile food business shall provide
and maintain adequate trash receptacles. (Ord. 5614, 8-16-2021)
3-4F-15: APPEAL:
A person may appeal a decision of the city clerk to deny an application by
filing a written appeal to the office of the city clerk within fourteen (14)
days of the date of the decision. An administrative fee of fifty dollars
($50.00) shall be paid at the time the appeal is filed. Failure to file the
appeal and pay the administrative fee shall constitute a waiver of the right to
a hearing, and the denial shall thereupon become final. If the written appeal
and administrative fee are filed in conformance with this section, a hearing
shall be scheduled and conducted pursuant to 3-4F-16(B). (Ord. 5614, 8-16-2021)
3-4F-16: DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Any license issued under the provisions of this chapter may be denied,
suspended, or revoked by the city clerk as follows:
      1.   Violation of any provision of this article, any other section of
this code, or has otherwise conducted business in an unlawful manner.
      2.   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements made in securing a
license and made in the course of the applicant's business.
      3.   Failure to cooperate with all reasonable requests of any official of
the city.
      4.   A licensee or employee of a licensee selling any unwholesome or
tainted food or food products.
      5.   A licensee or employee of the licensee shall not commit acts of
violence, harass, intimidate, coerce, or threaten any individual while
conducting business.
      6.   Failure of any licensee to maintain the appropriate insurance, or
county, state, and federal licenses and permits, during the term of the
license.
      7.   Failure to pass a background investigation or inspection listed in
Section
3-4F-4.
      8.   Failure to pay on time any fee owed to the city.
      9.   Creating a public safety nuisance by generating three (3) police
calls or more to the mobile food business during the duration of the license.
      10.   Operating on city-owned property without permission.
   B.   Upon receipt of information alleging grounds exist to suspend or revoke
a mobile food business license, or a written appeal and administrative fee have
been received at the office of the city clerk, the city clerk shall cause a
notice to be sent by ordinary mail to the applicant or licensee at the address
noted in the application. Said notice shall state that a hearing has been set
before the city council not more than thirty (30) days from the date of the
notice. The notice shall include the reason and grounds for the hearing, the
date and time of the hearing, and the place where the hearing will be
conducted. Upon such hearing, if the city council determines that one or more
of such grounds do exist, it may suspend or revoke an existing license or
uphold a decision to deny a license. A suspension shall constitute a minimum
period of fourteen (14) calendar days from the date of the hearing, during
which period the licensee may not conduct any business. In the event such
license is revoked, no mobile food business license shall be issued to the
licensee for a period of one calendar year from the date of the revocation.
(Ord. 5614, 8-16-2021)
3-4F-17: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this article shall be guilty
of a municipal infraction and fined as provided in subsection
1-3-2 of this code. The provisions of this chapter relating to Sections
3-4F-8,
3-4F-9,
3-4F-10, and
3-4F-11 shall apply to all mobile food vendors whether or not they are a
licensed mobile food business. (Ord. 5614, 8-16-2021)
ARTICLE G. SIDEWALK CAFÉ
SECTION:
3-4G-1: Definitions
3-4G-2: Purpose
3-4G-3: Right To Limit
3-4G-4: Permit Required
3-4G-5: Where And When Permissible
3-4G-6: Application For Permit
3-4G-7: Issuance Of Permit
3-4G-8: Transferability Of Permit
3-4G-9: Insurance
3-4G-10: Litter
3-4G-11: Restrictions On Smoking And Alcoholic Beverages
3-4G-12: Sidewalk Café Regulations For Operation And Construction
3-4G-13: Appeal
3-4G-14: Denial, Suspension, Or Revocation Of Permit
3-4G-15: Removal Of Sidewalk Café
3-4G-16: Penalty
3-4G-17: Severability
3-4G-1: DEFINITIONS:
CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT: The Central Business District shall include all
properties in downtown Waterloo as described in Section
2-2-1 of this Code.
DESIGN REVIEW: Materials used to define the perimeter of a sidewalk café in the
Central Business District shall be subject to the approval of the Engineering
Department and the Main Street Waterloo Redevelopment Authority, in accordance
with Section
2-2-3 of this Code.
ESTABLISHMENT: A brick-and-mortar building located in the Central Business
District selling food to customers and is required by the State of Iowa to hold
a food establishment license, or a bar operating from a brick-and-mortar
building in the Central Business District and is required by the State of Iowa
to have a liquor license.
OPERATOR: The owner and/or employees of the establishment responsible for
operating, maintaining, and serving customers of the sidewalk café.
PERMITTEE: Any individual, person, firm, corporation, partnership, or public
entity and their agents and employees, which have been issued a permit under
this article.
SIDEWALK CAFÉ: Any group of tables and/or chairs, and its authorized decorative
and accessory devices and barriers, situated and maintained upon the public
sidewalk for use in connection with operating an establishment. The sidewalk
café shall be attached and adjacent to the establishment. Sidewalk cafés shall
be constructed, maintained, and removed at the sole cost and expense of the
permittee. (Ord. 5747, 1-16-2024)
3-4G-2: PURPOSE:
This article shall set forth regulations for any establishment operating a
sidewalk café in the Central Business District. (Ord. 5747, 1-16-2024)
3-4G-3: RIGHT TO LIMIT:
The city council shall, by resolution, have the right to limit the number of
sidewalk cafés allowed in the Central Business District. An establishment may
apply for a sidewalk café permit and a parklet permit. The city reserves the
right to limit or prohibit such combination for the purpose of preserving
public health and safety. (Ord. 5747, 1-16-2024)
3-4G-4: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or operate a sidewalk café
within the city without first obtaining a permit from the city, and any other
state or county permits, certifications, and licenses that may be required to
operate an establishment on a sidewalk café. A sidewalk café, permitted and
operated in accordance with this article shall not be considered an obstruction
of the public right-of-way.
   B.   A permit for a sidewalk café shall be issued only to the permittee who
shall include, jointly and severally:
      1.   The operator of the establishment; and
      2.   The fee simple owner of the real property upon which the
establishment is located. (Ord. 5747, 1-16-2024)
3-4G-5: WHERE AND WHEN PERMISSIBLE:
A sidewalk café regulated under this article shall be permitted as follows:
   A.   Is located in the Central Business District.
   B.   Attached and adjacent to the establishment. If not attached and
adjacent to the establishment, the perimeter of the café shall be within five
feet (5') of the façade of the establishment.
   C.   Where the sidewalk café's operation is primary to and a part of the
operation of its adjacent establishment.
   D.   Provided the area in which the sidewalk café is located extends no
farther along the sidewalk's length than the actual sidewalk frontage of the
establishment. The sidewalk café may extend into the frontage of a neighboring
establishment with written permission from the neighboring deed holder and
lessee of such deed holder. Such permission must be obtained annually and
provided to the city at the time of filing an application. (Ord. 5747, 1-16-
2024)
3-4G-6: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Contents of Application: Applicants for a permit under this article
shall complete and submit to the city clerk an application, fees, and
supporting documentation, all of which shall include but not be limited to the
following information:
      1.   The name, phone number, and email address of the applicant.
      2.   The name, address, phone number, and email address of the
establishment.
      3.   Proof of valid food service license(s) from the state and/or county
health departments if selling/handling food and/or beverages for human
consumption. License number of current liquor license.
      4.   Certificates of insurance and indemnification agreement as required
in Section
3-4G-9 of this article.
      5.   A drawing showing the layout and dimensions of the proposed sidewalk
café area, including size and number of tables, seating, umbrellas, location of
entries to the sidewalk café. The drawing must also show the location of trees,
sidewalk benches, trash receptacles, landscaping, utility boxes, fire hydrants,
poles, and other sidewalk obstructions, either existing or proposed, near the
sidewalk café area.
      6.   Photographs, drawings, or manufacturer's brochures fully describing
the appearance of all proposed tables, chairs, umbrellas or other objects
relating to the sidewalk café.
      7.   A plan for the maintenance and cleaning of the sidewalk café
including the disposal of any trash or debris generated from the operation and
use of the sidewalk café by patrons of the permittee.
      8.   A non-refundable application fee of fifty dollars ($50.00).
   B.   Filing: No application shall be accepted for filing and processing
unless it conforms to the requirements of this article. This includes a
complete and true application, all of the required materials and information
prescribed, and the appropriate application fee. If an applicant submits a
complete application for a sidewalk café and parklet to the city clerk, that
conforms to the requirements of this section, the non-refundable application
fee for such applications filed simultaneously shall be fifty dollars ($50.00).
   C.   Filing - New Application: An establishment filing an application for
the first time may do so at any time during the year. Fees for such
applications and permits shall not be prorated. The city clerk may charge an
applicant a twenty-dollar ($20.00) fee for filing an incomplete application.
   D.   Filing - Renewal Applications and Timely Filing: A renewal application
must be filed with the city clerk's office no later than February 1 of each
year. The city reserves the right to reject any application not filed in a
timely manner. The city clerk may charge an applicant a twenty-dollar ($20.00)
fee for filing an incomplete application or for failing to timely file the
application.
   E.   Application Review: Upon receipt of the complete application as
required by this article, the city clerk shall forward the application to the
Fire Department, Building Department, Planning and Zoning Department,
Engineering Department, and Police Department for review and approval or
denial. If the applicant does not hold a liquor license, the police department
is not required to review the application. Following approval by city
departments, the city clerk shall forward the application to the Main Street
Design Review Board for review and approval or denial.
   F.   Approval or denial of a sidewalk café application shall be at the
discretion of the city clerk. Such discretion shall be exercised with due
regard to public health, safety, and welfare considerations. City departments
may impose additional requirements in particular situations when it is deemed
to be necessary to ensure compliance with city ordinances public health,
safety, or welfare. (Ord. 5747, 1-16-2024)
3-4G-7: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
   A.   If the city clerk finds the application is complete, fully executed,
and made in conformance with Section
3-4G-6 of this article, the application fee and all outstanding fees owed to
the city are paid, and upon approval by all parties listed in Section
3-4G-6(E) of this article, the city clerk shall inform the applicant that a
permit may be issued subject to payment of a non-refundable permit fee. Permit
fees for sidewalk cafés with a liquor license shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00). Sidewalk cafés without a liquor license shall receive a permit at no
cost. At such time the applicant is issued a liquor license, if such issuance
occurs during the permit period, a permit fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
shall be charged. The fees listed in this section shall become effective on
January 1, 2025.
   B.   Term of Permit: A permit shall be valid from April 1 through November
1.
   C.   Only responsible businesses will be allowed to renew. The city will
determine if the business responsibly managed its sidewalk café by the previous
year's performance, calls for service, and compliance with city codes. (Ord.
5747, 1-16-2024)
3-4G-8: TRANSFERABILITY OF PERMIT:
A permit issued under the provisions of this article is not transferable in any
situation to any person and is only applicable to the person filing the
application. (Ord. 5747, 1-16-2024)
3-4G-9: INSURANCE:
   A.   All permittees shall provide proof of and maintain current commercial
general liability insurance having a minimum combined single limit of one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00), and Workers' Compensation coverage of no less
than the statutory requirement. A certificate of insurance shall be delivered
to the city clerk prior to the issuance of a permit. The certificate of
insurance shall list the City of Waterloo and its elected and appointed
officials, officers, employees, and agents as named additional insureds on a
primary and non-contributory basis, including a waiver of subrogation in favor
of city, against any liabilities that may arise in connection with the
operation of the sidewalk café.
   B.   Apart from and separate from any insurance required under this section,
the permittee shall agree in writing to indemnify, defend, and hold the City of
Waterloo and its assignees and employees harmless from all losses, damages,
injuries, claims, demands, and expenses in a manner resulting from or arising
out of the permitted operation of the sidewalk café.
   C.   Permittees holding a liquor license shall be required to provide proof
of dram shop insurance covering the permitted sidewalk café area. (Ord. 5747,
1-16-2024)
3-4G-10: LITTER:
The permittee shall be responsible for keeping the sidewalk café area free of
trash or litter and collecting and removing daily all garbage, litter, and
other debris in its immediate vicinity. (Ord. 5747, 1-16-2024)
3-4G-11: RESTRICTIONS ON SMOKING AND ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
Operators shall enforce the following prohibitions or restrictions:
   A.   Smoking tobacco or using an electronic smoking device at a sidewalk
café may be permitted in accordance with the Iowa Smoke-Free Air Act.
   B.   Alcoholic beverages may be served at sidewalk cafés pursuant to a valid
liquor control license, and in accordance with state and local alcoholic
beverage control laws, provided the following requirements are met:
      1.   Patron entrance to and egress from the sidewalk café shall be
controlled by operators of the establishment, who shall monitor the sidewalk
café during times alcoholic beverages are being sold or consumed;
      2.   No alcoholic beverages may be sold or served to patrons later than
two o’clock (2:00) a.m. No person shall consume alcoholic beverages on the
sidewalk café after two o’clock (2:00) a.m.;
      3.   No person shall be permitted to consume any alcoholic beverages with
the sidewalk café that were not purchased on the premises; and
      4.   Operators shall ensure that no person loiters in the clear path of
pedestrian travel. Patrons may be in possession of an alcoholic beverage in the
clear path of pedestrian travel only for the purpose of moving to the sidewalk
café from the establishment or vice versa. (Ord. 5747, 1-16-2024)
3-4G-12: SIDEWALK CAFÉ REGULATIONS FOR OPERATION AND CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   City departments listed in Section
3-4G-6(E) shall have the authority to develop policies and standard
requirements for sidewalk café design and construction in addition to
regulations listed in this Section or this Code, which shall be subject to
approval by city council resolution.
   B.   The following regulations for operation and construction shall apply to
all sidewalk cafés:
      1.   Date and Time of Operation: A sidewalk café may only operate from
April 1 to November 1. Sidewalk cafés shall not operate or allow patrons to
congregate in the sidewalk café between the hours of two o’clock (2:00) a.m.
and six o’clock (6:00) a.m. daily. If a sidewalk café is not in operation for
the entire permit period, the annual permit fee shall not be prorated or
refunded.
      2.   Location: All sidewalk cafés may be located on public right-of-way
in the Central Business District. Such area must be immediately adjacent and
attached to the establishment of which it is a part and provide a minimum of
(5) feet of public right-of-way available for pedestrian traffic.
      3.   Perimeter: Sidewalk Cafés shall be aesthetically separated on three
sides. This separation does not need to be of solid material but must provide
an aesthetically pleasing separation from surrounding uses as determined by the
city and Main Street Design Review Board. No portion of any object placed
within the sidewalk café boundary shall extend onto the adjacent pedestrian
sidewalk, without first obtaining approval from the city.
      4.   Accessibility: The permittee shall have a continuing obligation of
compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, as the same may be amended
from time to time. Sidewalk cafés shall be accessible from the permitted
premises to which it is attached and shall not obstruct pedestrian
accessibility on the public sidewalk around the sidewalk café.
      5.   Occupancy: Sidewalk café occupancy shall be determined by the fire
marshal, in accordance with the International Fire Code.
      6.   Lighting: A Sidewalk Café shall be adequately lighted by use of non-
obtrusive lighting, which shall not be directed toward any residential use or
the public street. Electrical extension cords shall be safely secured in a
manner that mitigates tripping or other hazards.
      7.   Amplified Sound Equipment: Amplified sound equipment may be
permitted in accordance with the city noise ordinance.
      8.   Inspections: The city may inspect sidewalk cafés at least once per
year outside of the application process at the same time inspection of the
adjacent permitted establishment occurs. The city may, at its discretion,
inspect a sidewalk café at any other time as deemed necessary to ensure
compliance with city ordinances. Sidewalk Cafés shall comply with appropriate
building, housing, and fire codes and with all other applicable state and city
statutes.
      9.   Design Changes: Any change to the perimeter of the sidewalk café
during the duration of the permit is subject to the approval of city
departments and Main Street Design Review Board.
      10.   Damage to Public Property: Permittee shall be required to replace
or mitigate entirely at permittee's expense, any damage to the public right-of-
way, including existing trees, plantings, etc., resulting from construction,
installation, placement, operation, maintenance or removal of the sidewalk
café. If the permittee fails to make such repairs when directed by the city,
the city may make the repairs and the cost thereof shall be assessed against
the adjacent property.
      11.   Maintenance: Tables, chairs, umbrellas, and any objects accessory
to the sidewalk café shall be maintained in a clean and attractive appearance,
shall be in good state of repair at all times, and shall be maintained in
accordance with the approved maintenance plan. The sidewalk café shall be
maintained in a neat and orderly appearance at all times and the area shall be
cleared of all debris on a periodic basis during the day, and again at the
close of each business day in compliance with the approved maintenance plan.
      12.   Table, Chair, and Umbrella Materials: Awnings, umbrellas, and other
decorative material accessory to the sidewalk café shall be fire retardant,
pressure treated, or manufactured of fire resistive material. Tables, seating,
umbrellas, and any other items accessory to the sidewalk café shall be of a
quality design and lasting materials, and workmanship both to ensure the safety
and convenience of the use   rs and to be compatible with the uses in the
immediate vicinity of the sidewalk café.
      13.   Any sidewalk café with a permanent fence installed prior to the
effective date of this section that does not conform to the requirements of
this article shall be permitted to remain in place. If the permanent fencing of
the sidewalk café is removed, any such replacement shall comply with this
article. (Ord. 5747, 1-16-2024)
3-4G-13: APPEAL:
A decision by the city clerk to deny, suspend, or revoke a permit shall be
issued by written notice delivered by regular mail or electronic mail. A person
may appeal a decision of the city clerk to deny, suspend, or revoke a permit by
filing a written appeal to the office of the city clerk within fourteen (14)
days of the date of the decision. An administrative fee of fifty dollars
($50.00) shall be paid at the time the appeal is filed. Failure to timely file
the appeal and pay the administrative fee shall constitute a waiver of the
right to a hearing, and the decision shall thereupon become final. If the
written appeal and administrative fee are filed in conformance with this
section, a hearing shall be scheduled and conducted pursuant to Section
3-4G-14(B). (Ord. 5747, 1-16-2024)
3-4G-14: DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Any permit applied for or issued under the provisions of this article
may be denied, suspended, or revoked by the city clerk as follows:
      1.   Violation of any provision of this article, any other section of
this Code, or otherwise conducting business in an unlawful manner.
      2.   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements made in securing a
permit and made in the course of the applicant's business.
      3.   Failure to cooperate with reasonable requests of any official of the
city.
      4.   Failure of any permittee to maintain the appropriate insurance, or
county, state, and federal licenses and permits, during the term of the permit.
      5.   Failure to pay on time any fee owed to the city.
      6.   Creating a public safety nuisance pursuant to Title 5, Chapter 5 of
this code.
      7.   Failing to pass an inspection or remedy inspection violations in a
timely manner.
   B.   Once a timely written appeal and administrative fee have been received
at the office of the city clerk, the city clerk shall cause a notice to be sent
by ordinary mail to the applicant or permittee at the address noted in the
application. Said notice shall state that a hearing has been set before the
city council not more than thirty (30) days from the date of the notice. The
notice shall include the reason and grounds for the hearing, the date and time
of the hearing, and the place where the hearing will be conducted. Upon such
hearing, if the city council determines grounds do exist, it may uphold
suspending revoking, or denying a permit.
   C.   Suspension: A suspension shall be for a minimum period of fourteen (14)
calendar days. The suspension shall commence either after the appeal period has
expired or the day immediately following the date of the hearing before the
city council, at which time the permittee shall immediately cease operation on
the sidewalk café. During the suspension, the permittee shall not conduct any
business on the sidewalk café.
   D.   Revocation: The revocation shall commence either after the appeal
period has expired or the day immediately following the date of the hearing
before the city council, at which time the permittee shall immediately cease
operation on the sidewalk café. If the permittee files an appeal, such sidewalk
café may remain in operation through the appeal process. If the permittee loses
the appeal, the permittee shall at its own expense, remove the sidewalk café
within five (5) calendar days of the date of the denial of the appeal. In the
event such permit is revoked, no sidewalk café permit shall be issued to the
permittee for one (1) subsequent sidewalk café season following the revocation.
   E.   Liquor License: In the event of revocation, the city clerk shall notify
the Iowa Alcoholic Beverages Division. The permit holder may appeal the
revocation to the Iowa Alcoholic Beverages Division Hearing Board, pursuant to
Section 123.32, Code of Iowa, or any other applicable code section. Revocation
or suspension of authorization by the city of operation of a sidewalk café
shall not affect the licensing of the principal establishment unless separate
action to suspend or revoke that license or permit is also initiated by the
City Council. (Ord. 5747, 1-16-2024)
3-4G-15: REMOVAL OF SIDEWALK CAFÉ:
The city reserves the right to require a sidewalk café to temporarily suspend
or cease operation or remove the sidewalk café for an emergency or any other
reason so that the city may access public right of way. The cost to remove and
clean up a sidewalk café shall be at the permittee's expense. In the event that
city infrastructure causes damage to the sidewalk café, the city shall not be
liable for such damage. Sidewalk cafés shall be removed within five (5)
business days of the expiration of the permit. If the permittee fails to remove
the sidewalk café when directed by the city or within fourteen (14) days after
the expiration of the permit, the city may remove the sidewalk café and the
cost thereof shall be assessed against the adjacent property. (Ord. 5747, 1-16-
2024)
3-4G-16: PENALTY:
Any person or establishment that violates any of the provisions of this article
shall be guilty of a municipal infraction and fined as provided in subsection
1-3-2 of this Code. (Ord. 5747, 1-16-2024)
3-4G-17: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision or clause of this article or its application to any person or
establishment in any circumstances is held invalid, such invalidity shall not
affect other provisions or applications of this article, which can be given
effect without the invalid provision, or application, and to this end, the
provisions of this article shall be severable. (Ord. 5747, 1-16-2024)
ARTICLE H. PARKLET
SECTION:
3-4H-1: Definitions
3-4H-2: Purpose
3-4H-3: Right To Limit
3-4H-4: Permit Required
3-4H-5: Where And When Permissible
3-4H-6: Application For Permit
3-4H-7: Issuance Of Permit
3-4H-8: Transferability Of Permit
3-4H-9: Insurance
3-4H-10: Litter
3-4H-11: Restrictions On Smoking And Alcoholic Beverages
3-4H-12: Parklet Regulations For Operation And Construction
3-4H-13: Taxes, Assessments; Operating Costs And Utility Charges
3-4H-14: Appeal
3-4H-15: Denial, Suspension, Or Revocation Of Permit
3-4H-16: Removal Of Parklet
3-4H-17: Penalty
3-4H-18: Severability
3-4H-1: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Design Review: Materials used to define the perimeter of a parklet
shall be subject to the approval of the Engineering Department. All other
materials used in the construction of a parklet located in the downtown
district shall be subject to the approval of the Main Street Waterloo
Redevelopment Authority, in accordance with Section
2-2-3 of this Code.
   B.   Central Business District: The Central Business District shall include
all properties in downtown Waterloo as described in Section
2-2-1 of this Code.
   C.   Establishment: A brick-and-mortar building located in the Central
Business District selling food to customers and is required by the State of
Iowa to hold a food establishment license, or a bar operating from a brick-and-
mortar building in the Central Business District and is required by the State
of Iowa to have a liquor license.
   D.   Operator: The owner and/or employees of the permitted business
responsible for operating, maintaining, and serving customers of the parklet.
   E.   Parklet: The platform installed by a permittee over public parking
spaces within the public right-of-way adjacent to a sidewalk area upon which
tables, chairs, umbrellas, landscaping, benches and other accessory components
and amenities may be placed. The term parklet, when permitted, also includes
the ongoing obligation of maintenance, repair, operation and removal of the
parklet improvements in accordance with the terms and conditions of this
Article. Parklets shall be undertaken at the sole cost and expense of the
permittee.
   F.   Permittee: Any individual, person, firm, corporation, partnership, or
public entity and their agents and employees, which have been issued a permit
under this Article. (Ord. 5746, 1-16-2024)
3-4H-2: PURPOSE:
This Article shall set forth regulations for any establishment operating a
parklet in the Central Business District. (Ord. 5746, 1-16-2024)
3-4H-3: RIGHT TO LIMIT:
The city council shall, by resolution, have the right to limit the number of
parklets allowed on one side of one city block in the Central Business
District. An establishment may apply for a parklet permit and a sidewalk cafe
permit. The city reserves the right to limit or prohibit such combinations for
the purpose of preserving public health and safety. (Ord. 5746, 1-16-2024)
3-4H-4: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or operate a parklet
within the city without first obtaining a permit from the city, and any other
state or county permits, certifications, and licenses that may be required to
operate an establishment on a parklet. A parklet, permitted and operated in
accordance with this chapter shall not be considered an obstruction of a public
right-of-way.
   B.   A permit for a parklet shall be issued only to the permittee who shall
include, jointly and severally:
      1.   Operator of the qualifying business; and
      2.   The fee simple owner of the real property upon which the qualifying
business is located. (Ord. 5746, 1-16-2024)
3-4H-5: WHERE AND WHEN PERMISSIBLE:
A parklet regulated under this Article shall be permitted as follows:
   A.   In the Central Business District on streets with speed limits of
twenty-five (25) miles per hour or less.
   B.   Adjacent to the brick-and-mortar establishment.
   C.   Where the parklet's operation is primary to and a part of the operation
of its adjacent establishment.
   D.   Parklets shall be sited along the curb line on streets where on-street
parking spaces exist.
   E.   Parklets shall not block access to public utilities, hydrants,
sidewalks, alleys or driveways.
   F.   The parklet shall extend no farther than ten feet (10') past the limit
of the street frontage of the establishment. The parklet may extend past the
street frontage of the establishment with approval from the city. When
determining whether to grant approval, city shall weigh available parking,
needs of neighboring businesses, and whether such approval is recommended by
Main Street Design Review Board. Approval of extending the parklet past the
street frontage of the establishment must be obtained annually and made at the
time of filing the application. (Ord. 5746, 1-16-2024)
3-4H-6: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Contents of Application: Applicants for a permit under this Article
shall complete and submit to the city clerk an application, fees, and
supporting documentation, all of which shall include but not be limited to the
following information:
      1.   The name, phone number, and email address of the applicant.
      2.   The name, address, phone number, and email address of the business.
      3.   Proof of valid food service license(s) from the state and/or county
health departments if selling/handling food and/or beverages for human
consumption.
      4.   Certificates of insurance and indemnification agreement as required
in Section
3-4H-9 of this Article.
      5.   A drawing showing the layout and dimensions of the proposed parklet
and adjacent property, including the structures to be located on the parklet,
proposed location, size and number of tables, seating, umbrellas, location of
entries, location of trees, parking meters, street signs, parking spaces
utilized, vehicular travel lanes, sidewalk benches, trash receptacles,
landscaping, utility boxes, fire hydrants, manholes, public utility valves or
covers, storm sewer grates, poles, and other sidewalk obstruction either
existing or proposed within twenty-five feet (25') of the parklet.
      6.   Photographs, drawings or manufacturer's brochures fully describing
the appearance of all proposed tables, chairs, umbrellas, or other objects
relating to the parklet.
      7.   A plan for the maintenance and cleaning of the parklet license area;
the tables and chairs located within the parklet area; and the disposal of any
trash or debris generated from the operation and use of the parklet by the
general public and patrons of the permittee.
      8.   Any permits or approvals required from any other governmental agency
necessary to operate the parklet.
      9.   A non-refundable application fee of fifty dollars ($50.00).
   B.   Filing: No application shall be accepted for filing and processing
unless it conforms to the requirements of this Article. This includes a
complete and true application, all of the required materials and information
prescribed, and the appropriate application fee. If an applicant submits a
complete application for a sidewalk café and parklet to the city clerk, that
conforms to the requirements of this section, the non-refundable application
fee for such applications filed simultaneously shall be fifty dollars ($50.00).
   C.   Filing - New Application: An establishment filing an application for
the first time may do so at any time during the year. Fees for such
applications and permits shall not be prorated. The city clerk may charge an
applicant a twenty-dollar ($20.00) fee for filing an incomplete application.
   D.   Filing - Renewal Applications and Timely Filing: A renewal application
must be filed with the city clerk's office no later than February 1st of each
year. The city reserves the right to reject any application not filed in a
timely manner. The city clerk may charge an applicant a twenty-dollar ($20.00)
fee for filing an incomplete application or for failing to timely file the
application.
   E.   Application Review: Upon receipt of the complete application as
required by this Article, the city clerk shall forward the application to the
Fire Department, Building Department, Planning, and Zoning Department,
Engineering Department, and Police Department for review. If the applicant does
not hold a liquor license, the police department is not required to review the
application. Following approval by city departments, the city clerk shall
forward the application to the Main Street Design Review Board for review and
approval or denial.
   F.   Approval or denial of a parklet application shall be at the discretion
of the city clerk. Such discretion shall be exercised with due regard to public
health, safety, and welfare considerations. City departments may impose
additional requirements in particular situations when it is deemed to be
necessary to ensure compliance with city ordinances. (Ord. 5746, 1-16-2024)
3-4H-7: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
   A.   If the city clerk finds the application is complete, fully executed,
and made in conformance with Section
3-4H-6 of this Article, the application fee and all outstanding fees owed to
the city are paid, and upon approval by all parties listed in Section
3-4H-6(E) of this Article, the city clerk shall inform the applicant that a
permit may be issued subject to payment of a non-refundable permit fee of two
hundred dollars ($200.00). The fees listed in this section shall become
effective on January 1, 2025.
   B.   Term of Permit: A permit shall be valid from April 1 through November
1.
   C.   Only responsible businesses will be allowed to renew. The city will
determine if the business responsibly managed its parklet by the previous
year's performance, calls for service, and compliance with city codes. (Ord.
5746, 1-16-2024)
3-4H-8: TRANSFERABILITY OF PERMIT:
A permit issued under the provisions of this Article is not transferable in any
situation to any person and is only applicable to the person filing the
application. (Ord. 5746, 1-16-2024)
3-4H-9: INSURANCE:
   A.   All permittees shall provide proof of and maintain current commercial
general liability insurance having a minimum combined single limit of one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00). Workers' Compensation coverage of no less than
the statutory requirement. A certificate of insurance shall be delivered to the
city clerk prior to the issuance of a permit. The certificate of insurance
shall list the City of Waterloo and its elected and appointed officials,
officers, employees, and agents as named additional insureds on a primary and
non-contributory basis, including a waiver of subrogation in favor of city,
against any liabilities that may arise in connection with the operation of the
parklet.
   B.   Apart from and separate from any insurance required under this section,
the permittee shall agree in writing to indemnify, defend, and hold the City of
Waterloo and its assignees and employees harmless from all losses, damages,
injuries, claims, demands, and expenses in any manner resulting from or arising
out of the permitted operation of the parklet.
   C.   Permittees holding a liquor license shall be required to provide proof
of dram shop insurance covering the permitted parklet area. (Ord. 5746, 1-16-
2024)
3-4H-10: LITTER:
The permittee shall be responsible for keeping the parklet area free of trash
or litter, and collecting and removing daily all garbage, litter, and other
debris in its immediate vicinity. (Ord. 5746, 1-16-2024)
3-4H-11: RESTRICTIONS ON SMOKING AND ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
Operators shall enforce the following prohibitions or restrictions:
   A.   Smoking tobacco or using an electronic smoking device at a parklet may
be permitted in accordance with the Iowa Smoke-Free Air Act.
   B.   Alcoholic beverages may be served at parklets pursuant to a valid
liquor control license, and in accordance with state and local alcoholic
beverage control laws, provided the following additional requirements are met:
      1.   Patron entrance to and egress from the parklet shall be controlled
by operators of the establishment, who shall continuously monitor the parklet
during times alcoholic beverages are being sold or consumed, and
      2.   No alcoholic beverages may be sold or served to patrons later than
twelve o’clock (12:00) a.m. No person shall consume alcoholic beverages on the
parklet after twelve o'clock (12:00) a.m.
      3.   No person shall be permitted to consume any alcoholic beverages
within the parklet that were not purchased on the premises, and
      4.   Operators shall ensure that no person loiters in the clear path of
pedestrian travel. Patrons may be in possession of an alcoholic beverage in the
clear path of pedestrian travel only for the purpose of moving to the parklet
from the adjoining indoor restaurant or vice versa. (Ord. 5746, 1-16-2024)
3-4H-12: PARKLET REGULATIONS FOR OPERATION AND CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   City departments listed in Section
3-4H-6(E) shall have the authority to develop policies and standard
requirements for parklet design and construction in addition to regulations
listed in this Section, which shall be subject to approval by city council
resolution.
   B.   The following regulations for operation and construction shall apply to
all parklets:
      1.   Date and Time of Operation: A parklet may only operate from April 1
to November 1. Parklets shall not operate or allow patrons to congregate in the
parklet between the hours of twelve o’clock (12:00) a.m. and six o’clock (6:00)
a.m. daily. If a parklet is not in operation for the entire period, the annual
permit fee shall not be prorated.
      2.   Location: All parklets may be located on a parking stall on public
right-of-way in the Central Business district. Such an area shall be
immediately adjacent to the establishment of which it is apart and, if the
establishment also has a sidewalk café, provide five feet (5') of public right-
of-way available for pedestrian traffic. Parklets shall be adjacent to an
establishment.
      3.   Barrier: Parklets shall have a three-sided barrier. This barrier
shall provide an aesthetically pleasing separation from surrounding uses as
determined by standards set out in this ordinance and by requirements
established by the Main Street Design Review Board.
      4.   Accessibility: Parklets shall be accessible from the permitted
premises to which it is attached. No tables or chairs will be permitted within
ten feet (10') of a pedestrian crosswalk. There shall be a distance separation
of no less than two feet (2') separating the structure of the parklet and the
adjacent travel lane. No portion of any object placed within the parklet
boundary shall extend into an adjacent pedestrian sidewalk, without first
obtaining approval from the city.
      5.   Occupancy: A parklet shall not exceed one person per ten (10) square
feet of floor area accessible to the public.
      6.   Lighting: A Parklet shall be adequately lit by use of non-obtrusive
lighting, which shall not be directed toward any residential use, or the public
street. Electrical extension cords shall be safely secured in a manner that
mitigates tripping or other hazards.
      7.   Amplified Sound Equipment: Amplified sound equipment may be
permitted in accordance with the city noise ordinance.
      8.   Code Compliance: Parklets shall comply with appropriate building,
housing, and fire codes and with all other applicable federal, state, and city
statutes. The parklet shall be constructed and installed to conform to all
applicable federal, state, or county laws or regulations. The permittee shall
have the continuing obligation of compliance with the Americans with
Disabilities Act, as same may be amended from time to time.
      9.   Inspections: The city shall inspect parklets at least once per year
outside of the application process at the same time inspection of the adjacent
permitted establishment occurs. The city may, at its discretion, inspect a
parklet at any other time as deemed necessary to ensure compliance with city
ordinances.
      10.   Perimeter Changes: Any change to the perimeter of the parklet is
subject to the approval of city departments listed in the application process
and Main Street Design Review Board.
      11.   Right-of-Way: Permittee shall preserve and protect all existing
trees and plantings in the public right-of-way within the immediate vicinity of
the parklet. Permittee shall be required to replace or mitigate entirely at
permittee's expense, any damage to the public right-of-way or private property
as a result of the parklet construction, installation, placement, operation,
maintenance or removal.
      12.   Fire Prevention: Awnings, umbrellas, and other decorative material
accessory to the parklet shall be fire retardant, pressure treated or
manufactured of fire resistive material.
      13.   Maintenance: Tables, chairs, umbrellas, and any objects accessory
to the parklet shall be maintained in a clean and attractive appearance, shall
be in good state of repair at all times and shall be maintained in accordance
with the approved maintenance plan and shall keep the landscaping and plants in
a good, healthy and vibrant condition.
      14.   Litter and Debris: The parklet shall be maintained in a neat and
orderly appearance at all times and the area shall be cleared of all litter and
debris on a periodic basis during the day, and again at the close of each
business day in compliance with the approved maintenance plan.
      15.   Accessory Items and Planters: Tables, seating, umbrellas and any
other items accessory to the parklet shall be of a quality design and lasting
materials, and workmanship both to ensure the safety and convenience of the
users and to be compatible with the uses in the immediate vicinity of the
parklet. If the parklet includes planters, the planters shall be placed within
the parklet boundaries but shall be secured to ensure that they do not move
onto the adjacent sidewalk. No planters with wheels are to be permitted.
      16.   Safety Requirements: The following safety measures shall be
required for parklets:
         a.   A three-foot (3') wheel stop or other appropriate "stops" such as
planters shall be installed one foot (1') from the curb at the edge of the
front and back of parking spaces. When parklets are installed on a portion of a
parallel parking space, wheel stops or other appropriate "stops" such as
planters should be set back four feet (4') from the parklet.
         b.   Traffic safety devices, including but not limited to flexible
bollards may be required depending on existing conditions and site layout to
properly protect the parklet and its patrons. Parklets shall be required to
have soft-hit posts, wheel stops and barriers on all edges of the parklet
platform.
         c.   Reflective elements are required at the outside corners of all
parklets. Soft-hit posts are a standard solution deployed at the outside edges;
however, the city shall consider and may require additional safety measures
including flexible bollards, reflective elements or other solutions
incorporated into the parklet design if warranted.
      17.   Fire Hydrant Clearance: Parklets shall not be permitted in front of
a fire hydrant, over a manhole, public utility valve or cover. A clearance of
three feet (3') in either direction of the hydrant along the length of the
street shall separate parklets from fire hydrants.
      18.   Cost of Maintenance, Operation, and Compliance: The permittee
shall, at its sole cost and expense, construct, operate, maintain, repair and
remove the parklet and perform such acts and do such things as shall be
lawfully required by any public body having jurisdiction over the parklet to
install, construct, operate, use, maintain, and repair in order to comply with
health and sanitary requirements, fire hazard requirements, zoning
requirements, building code requirements, city engineering standards,
environmental requirements and other similar regulatory requirements. The city
may require the permittee to provide additional services beneath the parklet
platform, including but not limited to pest abatement service and clearing of
catch basin grates to allow proper storm drainage. Such requirements shall be
at the sole cost of the permittee. (Ord. 5746, 1-16-2024)
3-4H-13: TAXES, ASSESSMENTS; OPERATING COSTS AND UTILITY CHARGES:
The permittee shall pay or cause to be paid all applicable real estate taxes,
assessments, and other similar payments, usual or unusual, extraordinary as
well as ordinary, which shall during the term be imposed upon, become due and
payable, or become a lien upon the parklet or any part thereof, but
specifically limited to such taxes or assessments which accrue after the
effective date of the parklet permit. Permittee shall, upon request, exhibit a
receipt for such payments to the City. Further, permittee shall pay or cause to
be paid all operating expenses, such as those for light, electricity, charges
for water, and all costs attributable to the maintenance and operation of all
parklet improvements to be erected within the license area for the parklet or
landscaping related thereto. (Ord. 5746, 1-16-2024)
3-4H-14: APPEAL:
A person may appeal a decision of the city clerk to deny an application by
filing a written appeal to the office of the city clerk within fourteen (14)
days of the date of the decision. An administrative fee of fifty dollars
($50.00) shall be paid at the time the appeal is filed. Failure to file the
appeal and pay the administrative fee shall constitute a waiver of the right to
a hearing, and the denial shall thereupon become final. If the written appeal
and administrative fee are filed in conformance with this section, a hearing
shall be scheduled and conducted pursuant to Section
3-4H-15(B). (Ord. 5746, 1-16-2024)
3-4H-15: DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Any permit issued under the provisions of this Article may be denied,
suspended, or revoked by the city clerk as follows:
      1.   Violation of any provision of this Article, any other section of
this Code, or has otherwise conducted business in an unlawful manner.
      2.   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements made in securing a
permit and made in the course of the applicant's business.
      3.   Failure to cooperate with all reasonable requests of any official of
the city.
      4.   A permittee or employee of a permittee selling any unwholesome or
tainted food or food products.
      5.   Failure of any permittee to maintain the appropriate insurance, or
county, state, and federal licenses and permits, during the term of the permit.
      6.   Failure to pay on time any fee owed to the city.
      7.   Being deemed a chronic nuisance property pursuant to Title 5,
Chapter 5 of this Code.
      8.   Failing to pass an inspection or remedy inspection violations in a
timely manner.
   B.   Upon receipt of information alleging grounds exist to deny, suspend, or
revoke a parklet permit, or a written appeal and administrative fee have been
received at the office of the city clerk, the city clerk shall cause a notice
to be sent by ordinary mail to the applicant or permittee at the address noted
in the application. Said notice shall state that a hearing has been set before
the city council not more than thirty (30) days from the date of the notice.
The notice shall include the reason and grounds for the hearing, the date and
time of the hearing, and the place where the hearing will be conducted. Upon
such hearing, if the city council determines that one or more of such grounds
do exist, it may suspend or revoke an existing permit or uphold a decision to
deny a permit. A suspension shall constitute a minimum period of fourteen (14)
calendar days from the date of the hearing, during which period the permittee
may not conduct any business. In the event such permit is revoked, no parklet
permit shall be issued to the permittee for one (1) subsequent parklet season
following the revocation.
   C.   A permittee shall, within five (5) calendar days from the date of
revocation, remove the parklet. If the permittee files an appeal, such parklet
may remain in operation through the appeal process. If the permittee loses the
appeal, the permittee shall at its own expense, remove the parklet within five
(5) calendar days of the date of the denial of the appeal.
   D.   In the event of revocation, the city clerk shall notify the Iowa Beer
and Liquor Control Department. The permit holder may appeal the revocation to
the Iowa Beer and Liquor Control Department Hearing Board, pursuant to Section
123.32, Code of Iowa. Revocation or suspension of authorization by the city of
operation of a parklet shall not affect the licensing of the principal
establishment unless separate action to suspend or revoke that license or
permit is also initiated by the City Council. (Ord. 5746, 1-16-2024)
3-4H-16: REMOVAL OF PARKLET:
The city reserves the right to require a parklet to temporarily suspend or
cease operation or remove the parklet for an emergency or any other reason so
that the city may access public right of way. The cost to remove and clean up a
parklet shall be at the permittee's expense. In the event that city
infrastructure causes damage to the parklet, the city shall not be liable for
such damage. Parklets shall be removed within five (5) business days of the
expiration of the permit. If the permittee fails to remove the parklet when
directed by the city or within fourteen (14) days after the expiration of the
permit, the city may remove the parklet and the cost thereof shall be assessed
against the adjacent property. (Ord. 5746, 1-16-2024)
3-4H-17: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this Article shall be guilty
of a municipal infraction and fined as provided in subsection 1-3-2 of this
Code. (Ord. 5746, 1-16-2024)
3-4H-18: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision or clause of this Article or its application to any person or
in any circumstances is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other
provisions or applications of this Article, which can be given effect without
the invalid provision, or application, and to this end, the provisions of this
Article shall be severable. (Ord. 5746, 1-16-2024)
CHAPTER 5
BUSINESSES RELATING TO VEHICLES
ARTICLE A. AMBULANCES
(Rep. by Ord. 5255, 11-17-2014)
ARTICLE B. TAXICABS AND LIMOUSINES
SECTION:
3-5B-1: Jurisdiction
3-5B-2: Definitions
3-5B-3: Permit Required
3-5B-4: Contract Drivers
3-5B-5: Business Application For Company Only
3-5B-6: Denial Of Business Permit For Company Only
3-5B-7: Council Approval
3-5B-8: Issuance Of Permit
3-5B-9: Liability Insurance Required
3-5B-10: Licenses And Fees
3-5B-11: Transfer Of Permit
3-5B-12: Permit Suspension Or Revocation
3-5B-13: Duration Of The Business License
3-5B-14: Driver's License Required
3-5B-15: Application For Driver's License
3-5B-16: Police Investigation Of Applicant; Traffic And Police Record
3-5B-17: Examination Of Applicant
3-5B-18: Consideration Of Application
3-5B-19: Issuance Of License
3-5B-20: Duration Of License
3-5B-21: License Fee
3-5B-22: Lost License
3-5B-23: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-5B-24: Vehicles Kept In Sanitary And Structurally Sound Condition
3-5B-25: Condition Of Vehicles; Safety/Mechanical Inspection
3-5B-26: Designation Of Vehicles For Hire
3-5B-27: Taximeter
3-5B-28: Receipt For Payment Of Rates
3-5B-29: Prepayment
3-5B-30: Posting Of Rates
3-5B-31: Overcharge
3-5B-32: Additional Passengers
3-5B-33: Trip Card
3-5B-34: Driver Prohibitions
3-5B-35: Preventing Ingress And Egress
3-5B-36: Smoking Prohibited By Vehicle For Hire Driver
3-5B-37: Violation; Penalty
3-5B-1: JURISDICTION:
This article shall apply to all vehicles for hire whose place of business is in
the city or who conducts business in the city. (Ord. 4775, 6-13-2005)
3-5B-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Specific Terms: Unless otherwise expressly stated or the context
clearly indicates a different intention, the following terms shall, for the
purpose of this article, have the following meanings in this section:
CITY CLERK: The city clerk or the clerk's authorized representative.
DRIVER'S LICENSE: The permission granted to a person to drive a vehicle for
hire upon the streets of the city.
HOLDER: A person to whom a permit for operating a vehicle for hire business has
been issued.
LIMOUSINE: A motor vehicle with a passenger rated capacity of more than three
(3), exclusive of the driver, and not regulated by the office of motor carrier
services of the Iowa department of transportation. It shall include the vehicle
and driver engaged in the transportation of passengers for hire in a limousine
service. The vehicle shall be operated on a fixed route or have reservations
twenty four (24) hours in advance for their service, operate without a meter
installed in the vehicle, and charge for services on an hourly basis or longer
periods of time.
PERSON: Includes an individual, a corporation or other legal entity, a
partnership, and any unincorporated association.
TAXICAB: A motor vehicle regularly engaged in the business of carrying
passengers for hire and not operated on a fixed route and operating with a
meter.
TRIP CARD: A daily record prepared by a vehicle for hire driver of all trips
made by the driver showing the time and place of origin, destination, number of
passengers and the amount of fare for each trip.
VEHICLE FOR HIRE: A taxicab and/or limousine regularly engaged in the business
of carrying passengers for hire.
   B.   Exceptions: For the purposes of this article, those motor vehicles
owned and operated by hotels, motels and other boarding places for the purpose
of transporting patrons between said hotel, motel, or boarding place and
another point; ambulances and other emergency vehicles; and buses operated by
the metropolitan transit authority or vans operated by the regional transit
commission, are excluded from this article. (Ord. 4775, 6-13-2005)
3-5B-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person or business shall operate a vehicle for hire owned or controlled by
that person to be operated as a vehicle for hire upon the streets of the city
without having first obtained a permit. However, a department of transportation
certified charter carrier may be exempted from all requirements and fees for
licensing upon registration of business and submission of proof of a department
of transportation motor carrier certificate and certificate of insurance in
compliance with section
3-5B-9 of this article. (Ord. 4775, 6-13-2005)
3-5B-4: CONTRACT DRIVERS:
   A.   Notwithstanding the provisions of section
3-5B-3 of this article, a permit may also be granted to an applicant therefor
or renewed to an existing holder of a permit, who proposes to furnish vehicle
for hire service, at least in part, through drivers who are duly licensed by
the city, who are bound by written agreement with the permit holder to furnish
vehicle for hire services of the quality provided for in this article, and who
either own or are lessees of licensed vehicles for hire. Such agreement shall
incorporate the provisions of this article applicable to such driver.
   B.   Holders of permits operating under this plan shall be treated as owners
in applying sections
3-5B-9 and
3-5B-26 of this article. The operator of each vehicle for hire company must
ascertain that each driver working for said company obtains a license, in
addition to a license for said operator of the company.
   C.   Nothing herein shall change the holder's obligation to furnish to the
city the insurance coverage provided for in section
3-5B-9 of this article or change the license fees provided for in section
 3-5B-10 of this article. (Ord. 4775, 6-13-2005)
3-5B-5: BUSINESS APPLICATION FOR COMPANY ONLY:
An application for a permit shall be filed with the city clerk. It shall be
verified under oath and shall contain the following information:
   A.   The applicant's name, current business and residence addresses and
telephone numbers.
   B.   The number of vehicles for hire to be operated under the permit.
   C.   The color scheme and/or insignia and/or name of said company used to
distinguish the vehicle or vehicles of the applicant from those of other
companies.
   D.   The health department has inspected and satisfactorily approved that
each vehicle of the company is in clean and sanitary condition.
   E.   Each vehicle has been inspected and passed a safety inspection by an
approved auto service; a list of such businesses are on file in the city
clerk's office.
   F.   Further information as the city council may require. (Ord. 4775, 6-13-
2005)
3-5B-6: DENIAL OF BUSINESS PERMIT FOR COMPANY ONLY:
   A.   An application for permit filed pursuant to section
3-5B-5 of this article may be denied for any of the following reasons:
      1.   The applicant has failed to satisfy the requirements of insurance as
set forth in this article.
      2.   The applicant and/or any of the applicant's drivers do not have a
valid Iowa commercial driver's license (CDL) or class D operator's license.
      3.   The applicant does not meet any of the requirements of this article.
(Ord. 4775, 6-13-2005)
3-5B-7: COUNCIL APPROVAL:
Upon the filing of the application, the city clerk shall present the
application at the next scheduled council meeting and the city council shall
grant the permit if all of the requirements are met as set out in this article.
(Ord. 4775, 6-13-2005)
3-5B-8: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
Any person lawfully operating vehicles for hire upon the streets of the city at
the time of adoption of this article, notwithstanding the foregoing, shall be
granted a permit. (Ord. 4775, 6-13-2005)
3-5B-9: LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   No permit shall be issued or continued in operation unless and until
the owner of the vehicle for hire shall have furnished to the city clerk an
insurance policy or certificate of insurance issued by an insurance company
licensed to do business in the state of Iowa, providing at least three hundred
thousand dollars ($300,000.00) of liability insurance.
   B.   The insurance policy or certificate of insurance referred to in this
section shall provide that it cannot be canceled or terminated until ten (10)
days' notice of such cancellation or termination shall have been given by
registered mail to the city clerk. The certificate of insurance must accompany
the application required in section
3-5B-5 of this article.
   C.   The cancellation or other termination of any insurance policy issued in
compliance with this section shall automatically revoke and terminate the
permit and all licenses issued for the vehicle for hire business and the
vehicles covered by the insurance policy, unless another policy, complying with
this section, shall be provided and in effect at the time of the cancellation
or termination. The city clerk shall immediately issue written notification of
the revocation of the permit and all licenses for the vehicle for hire business
and the vehicles covered by insurance which is canceled or terminated.
   D.   The holder of a permit shall hold the city harmless for any liability
resulting from the operation of the holder's vehicle for hire business. (Ord.
4775, 6-13-2005)
3-5B-10: LICENSES AND FEES:
No permit shall be issued or continued in operation unless its holder has paid
to the city clerk an annual license fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
the right to engage in the vehicle for hire business and an annual license fee
of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each vehicle operated under a permit. The
license fee shall be for the year, starting with May 1 and continuing through
April 30 of the following year; shall be the same amount for each annual
renewal of these licenses; and shall be in addition to any other license fees
or charges established by proper authority and applicable to the holder or the
vehicle or vehicles under the holder's operation and control. (Ord. 4775, 6-13-
2005)
3-5B-11: TRANSFER OF PERMIT:
No permit shall be sold, assigned, mortgaged or transferred without the
purchasing party going through the permit procedure as set out in this article.
(Ord. 4775, 6-13-2005)
3-5B-12: PERMIT SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
   A.   A permit issued under the provisions of this article may be revoked or
suspended by the city council if the holder thereof violates any of the
provisions of this article, discontinues operations for more than ten (10) days
unless such discontinuance is the result of a labor dispute, any falsification
of any application or any other statement required under this article, or
violates any ordinance of the city, or the laws of the United States or the
state, the violations of which reflect unfavorably on the fitness of the holder
to offer public transportation.
   B.   Prior to suspension or revocation as provided in this section, the
holder shall be given three (3) days' written notice by the city clerk of the
proposed action to be taken and the holder shall be afforded an opportunity to
appear before the city council and be heard. Any action of the city council
shall be final, and appeal therefrom shall be to the Iowa district court for
Black Hawk County. (Ord. 4775, 6-13-2005)
3-5B-13: DURATION OF THE BUSINESS LICENSE:
A license shall be in effect only from May 1 of the year in which it is issued
through April 30 of the following year. (Ord. 4775, 6-13-2005)
3-5B-14: DRIVER'S LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall operate a vehicle for hire upon the streets of the city and no
person who owns or controls a vehicle for hire shall permit it to be so driven
unless the driver shall have first obtained and shall have then in force a
driver's license issued under the provisions of this article. (Ord. 4775, 6-13-
2005)
3-5B-15: APPLICATION FOR DRIVER'S LICENSE:
   A.   An application for a vehicle for hire driver's license shall be filed
with the city clerk on forms provided by the city. It shall be certified under
oath and shall contain the following information:
      1.   The names and addresses of three (3) residents of the city who have
known the applicant for a period of at least two (2) years, and who shall vouch
for the applicant's sobriety, honesty and general good character.
      2.   The experience of the applicant in the driving of an automobile.
      3.   The applicant shall possess at the time of making said application a
valid Iowa commercial driver's license (CDL) or class D operator's license.
      4.   Further information as the city council may require.
   B.   At the time the application is filed, the applicant shall pay the city
clerk the sum of ten dollars ($10.00). (Ord. 4775, 6-13-2005)
3-5B-16: POLICE INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT; TRAFFIC AND POLICE RECORD:
The police department shall conduct an investigation of each applicant for a
vehicle for hire license, and a copy of the traffic and police record of the
applicant, if any, shall be attached to said application. (Ord. 4775, 6-13-
2005)
3-5B-17: EXAMINATION OF APPLICANT:
   A.   No applicant will be accepted who is listed on the Iowa sex offender
registry as defined by Iowa law 692A.
   B.   The Waterloo police department shall be responsible for verifying the
requirements of subsection A of this section, and it shall process the
application by conducting the following investigation:
      1.   The applicant's driving record shall be verified in order to
determine that the applicant has a valid Iowa commercial driver's license (CDL)
or class D operator's license.
      2.   A query shall be made to determine if the subject is wanted for any
criminal offense.
      3.   A query shall be made through the Iowa sex offender registry to
determine if the applicant is on file as a sex offender. (Ord. 4775, 6-13-2005)
3-5B-18: CONSIDERATION OF APPLICATION:
The city clerk, upon receipt of the report of the applicant's police
investigation and the recommendation of the chief of police, shall consider the
same and approve or reject it. If the application is rejected, the applicant
may request a personal appearance before the city council to offer evidence why
the application should be considered. (Ord. 4775, 6-13-2005)
3-5B-19: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Upon approval of an application for a vehicle for hire driver's license, the
city clerk shall issue a license to the applicant with a license number
thereon. This license must, under penalty of revocation of the license, be
constantly and conspicuously displayed in the vehicle for hire. Each driver
shall also have an identification card conspicuously displayed in the vehicle
for hire showing the name and photograph of the driver. Any driver loaning his/
her license or identification card permitting another person to use the same
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and his/her license shall be revoked. (Ord.
4775, 6-13-2005)
3-5B-20: DURATION OF LICENSE:
A license shall be in effect only from May 1 of the year in which issued
through April 30, of the following year. (Ord. 4775, 6-13-2005)
3-5B-21: LICENSE FEE:
A license for every year thereafter shall be issued upon the payment of five
dollars ($5.00) and upon proper showing of a current commercial driver's
license (CDL) or class D operator's license issued by the state unless the
license for the preceding year has been revoked or the applicant is not
approved by the chief of police. (Ord. 4775, 6-13-2005)
3-5B-22: LOST LICENSE:
Any licensed driver upon losing any license shall present an affidavit as to
such loss to the city clerk, who in turn is authorized to issue a replacement
license containing a distinct and separate number and identification showing
the same to be a replacement, and the city clerk is authorized to make a charge
of one dollar ($1.00) for such replacement license. The city clerk shall keep a
separate record of replacement licenses issued showing the date of issuance, to
whom issued and the identification contained thereon. (Ord. 4775, 6-13-2005)
3-5B-23: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The city clerk, upon order of the chief of police, shall suspend any driver's
license issued under this article for a driver's failure or refusal to comply
with its provisions, such suspension to last for a period of not more than ten
(10) days. The city council may revoke any driver's license for failure to
comply with the provisions of this article. However, a license may not be
revoked unless the driver has received at least three (3) days' written notice
from the city clerk of the proposed action to be taken and has had an
opportunity to appear before the city council and be heard. (Ord. 4775, 6-13-
2005)
3-5B-24: VEHICLES KEPT IN SANITARY AND STRUCTURALLY SOUND CONDITION:
   A.   Every vehicle must conform to a high standard of sanitation and good
repair, and shall be maintained. The Black Hawk County health department is
authorized to inspect these vehicles at any time they are in operation. The fee
for the inspection shall be twenty dollars ($20.00) every six (6) months.
   B.   The health department shall perform the inspection of the licensed
vehicles for hire upon the following schedule:
      1.   As stated in subsection A of this section;
      2.   Upon change of ownership of the vehicle for hire or its company;
      3.   Whenever a new vehicle is added to an existing fleet, the new
vehicle or vehicles shall be inspected by the health department; and/or
      4.   Upon complaint.
Following a substantiated complaint, the affected vehicle shall be immediately
removed from service. The vehicle shall not be returned to service until all
required corrections are made. It shall be the responsibility of the owner/
operator of the vehicle for hire to request a reinspection of the unit. The fee
for reinspection shall be twenty dollars ($20.00). (Ord. 4775, 6-13-2005)
3-5B-25: CONDITION OF VEHICLES; SAFETY/MECHANICAL INSPECTION:
   A.   Every vehicle for hire shall be inspected for safety/mechanical
conditions before being put in service, and shall thereafter be inspected
semiannually for such period of time as the same continues to be operated as a
vehicle for hire, such inspections to be conducted by auto services authorized
by the city to conduct said inspections. A list of the authorized auto services
shall be kept on file by the city clerk. The cost for said inspection is at the
sole discretion of the auto services authorized to provide said inspections. No
vehicle for hire shall obtain a license, or be operated as a vehicle for hire
without passing said safety/mechanical inspections. Each vehicle passing such
inspection shall obtain a sticker to be placed in a conspicuous place on each
vehicle by the auto service conducting said inspection and a copy of the
inspection report shall be filed with the city clerk.
   B.   The safety/mechanical inspection shall be performed by an authorized
auto service on each vehicle for hire upon the following schedule:
      1.   As stated in subsection A of this section;
      2.   Upon change of ownership of the vehicle for hire or its company;
      3.   Whenever a new vehicle is added to an existing fleet; and/or
      4.   Upon complaint.
Following a substantiated complaint, the affected vehicle shall be immediately
removed from service. The vehicle shall not be returned to service until all
required corrections are made. It shall be the responsibility of the owner/
operator of the vehicle for hire to request a reinspection of the unit. (Ord.
4775, 6-13-2005)
3-5B-26: DESIGNATION OF VEHICLES FOR HIRE:
   A.   As applicable, each vehicle for hire shall bear on the outside of a
door on each side the name of the owner in letters at least two inches (2") in
height and, in addition, shall bear an identifying design. No vehicle covered
by the terms of this article shall be licensed whose color scheme, identifying
design, monogram or insignia to be used thereon shall conflict with or imitate
any color scheme, identifying design, monogram or insignia used on a vehicle or
vehicles already operating under this article, in such a manner as to be
misleading or tend to deceive or defraud the public. In case of such conflict
or imitation, the license and certificate covering the vehicles for hire shall
be suspended or revoked as provided in this article. Said signage may be
removed for the duration of a trip if requested by contracting passenger.
   B.   Each vehicle for hire shall bear on the inside of the passenger
compartment clearly visible to passengers a sign which denotes the name of the
owner and the number used by the owner to designate the vehicle for hire. (Ord.
4775, 6-13-2005)
3-5B-27: TAXIMETER:
   A.   Every vehicle for hire operating on the streets of the city of Waterloo
shall be equipped with a taximeter fastened in front of the passenger, visible
to them at all times, and after sundown, the face of the taximeter shall be
illuminated.
   B.   The taximeter shall be operated by a mechanism of standard design and
construction for the taximeter industry, which shall accurately record the fare
for each trip. Taximeters shall be sealed at all points and connections that,
if manipulated, would affect their correct reading and recording. Each
taximeter shall have a device or signal to denote when the vehicle is employed
and when it is not employed; and it shall be at the recording position at the
termination of each trip.
   C.   The taximeters shall be subject to inspection from time to time by the
city. The city clerk or designee is authorized to employ a person certified to
determine the accuracy of the taximeter to inspect any meter, and upon
discovery of any inaccuracy in the meter, to notify the person operating the
vehicle for hire to cease operation. Thereupon, the vehicle for hire shall be
kept off the streets until the taximeter is repaired and in the required
working condition.
   D.   The city clerk shall impose an inspection fee equal to the expenses
incurred for an inspection, which shall be paid by the owner of the vehicle for
hire.
   E.   No owner or driver of a vehicle for hire shall charge a greater sum for
the use of a vehicle for hire than in accordance with the rates on file in the
office of the city clerk.
   F.   Whenever the owner or operator of the vehicle for hire desires to
change the fare charged for the use of the vehicle for hire, the owner or
operator shall file a notice with the city clerk setting forth the new rates,
when they will go into effect, which date shall not be less than thirty (30)
days after filing the notice.
   G.   The owner of the vehicle for hire may charge a one dollar ($1.00)
surcharge for each trip made from twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight to five
o'clock (5:00) A.M. (Ord. 4775, 6-13-2005)
3-5B-28: RECEIPT FOR PAYMENT OF RATES:
If requested by the passenger, the driver in charge of a vehicle for hire shall
deliver to the person hiring the same at the time of payment a receipt therefor
in legible type or writing containing the name of the owner, the vehicle for
hire license number or the driver's signature and the total amount paid and the
date of payment. (Ord. 4775, 6-13-2005)
3-5B-29: PREPAYMENT:
Each driver of a vehicle for hire shall have the right to demand payment of the
estimated legal fare in advance and may refuse service unless so prepaid. (Ord.
4775, 6-13-2005)
3-5B-30: POSTING OF RATES:
Every vehicle for hire shall have posted in a conspicuous place on the inside
of the vehicle in the passenger's compartment a card no less than three inches
by five inches (3" x 5") on which shall be printed in plain legible type the
rates of fares charged by the vehicle for hire, unless operation of the vehicle
for hire is pursuant to a contract. (Ord. 4775, 6-13-2005)
3-5B-31: OVERCHARGE:
No person shall charge, or attempt to charge a passenger a higher rate of fare
than shown by the posted rate. (Ord. 4775, 6-13-2005)
3-5B-32: ADDITIONAL PASSENGERS:
No driver shall permit any other person to occupy or ride in his/her vehicle
for hire unless the person or persons first employing the vehicle for hire
shall consent to the acceptance of an additional passenger or passengers. Ride
sharing is not prohibited but rather shall be encouraged to promote energy
savings. (Ord. 4775, 6-13-2005)
3-5B-33: TRIP CARD:
Each driver of a vehicle for hire shall prepare and maintain a daily trip card
of all trips made by the driver, showing the time and place of origin,
destination, number of passengers, and the amount of fare for each trip. (Ord.
4775, 6-13-2005)
3-5B-34: DRIVER PROHIBITIONS:
No vehicle for hire driver shall solicit business for any hotel, or attempt to
divert patronage from one hotel to another. Neither, shall a driver engage in
selling intoxicating liquors or distributing controlled substances (except
prescription deliveries) or solicit business for any house of ill repute or use
the vehicle for hire for any purpose other than that provided in this article.
No driver shall drink intoxicating liquors or consume controlled substances
while on duty as a driver. (Ord. 4775, 6-13-2005)
3-5B-35: PREVENTING INGRESS AND EGRESS:
It shall be prohibited for vehicles for hire to prevent convenient ingress and/
or egress to the property abutting the street where the vehicle for hire has a
stand or is located. (Ord. 4775, 6-13-2005)
3-5B-36: SMOKING PROHIBITED BY VEHICLE FOR HIRE DRIVER:
It shall be prohibited for a driver of a vehicle for hire to smoke when a
paying passenger is in the vehicle. (Ord. 4775, 6-13-2005)
3-5B-37: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the terms of the provisions of this article as to
vehicles for hire shall be deemed guilty of a municipal infraction and upon
conviction thereof shall be punished as follows:
 
First offense                 $200.00
Second offense                500.00
Third and subsequent offenses 750.00
 
(Ord. 4775, 6-13-2005)
ARTICLE C. COMMERCIAL TOWING FIRMS
SECTION:
3-5C-1: Purpose
3-5C-2: Definitions
3-5C-3: Application For Inclusion
3-5C-4: Minimum Standards
3-5C-5: Suspension
3-5C-6: Appeal
3-5C-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to provide minimum standards and regulations
applicable to commercial towing firms utilized by the police department for
police-ordered tows. (Ord. 3267, 4-4-1983)
3-5C-2: DEFINITIONS:
BUSINESS LOCATION: A location where wrecker storage and dispatch activity is
conducted.
CHIEF OF POLICE: The duly appointed chief of police or his authorized
representative.
COMMERCIAL TOWING FIRMS: Any business operated by any person or firm who
engages in the activity of towing motor vehicles for hire.
MOTOR VEHICLES: Every vehicle which is self-propelled. The terms "car",
"automobile" or "truck" shall be synonymous with the term "motor vehicle".
POLICE-ORDERED TOW PROCEDURE: A. The procedure set forth in a general order in
the police department rules and regulations manual used to select a commercial
towing firm when the owner/operator of the vehicle to be towed fails to select
a commercial towing firm of their choice; or
   B.   A tow ordered when a vehicle is to be impounded for evidentiary
purposes.
SECURE STORAGE AREA: A storage area capable of limiting access to authorized
persons only. As a minimum, a secure storage area may consist of either a
properly fenced-in area or secure building.
WRECKER: A motor vehicle with hoisting apparatus and equipment for towing motor
vehicles. (Ord. 3267, 4-4-1983)
3-5C-3: APPLICATION FOR INCLUSION:
   A.   Application Procedure: Any commercial towing firm applying for
inclusion in the police-ordered tow procedure shall make an application in
writing to the chief of police. Such application shall be signed by the
individual proprietor of such business, or by a partner, or by the proper
corporate officer, as is appropriate for the form of business, and shall
include:
      1.   The proper legal name, address and telephone number of the
commercial towing firm;
      2.   Satisfactory evidence of compliance with the minimum standards set
forth in section
3-5C-4 of this article.
   B.   Action On Application: The police chief shall cause a report on the
applicant to be prepared based on the information contained in the application
together with such other relevant information as may be obtained to determine
that the applicant meets the minimum requirements of this article. On the basis
of this report, the chief of police shall, within thirty (30) days after the
receipt of application for inclusion in the police-ordered tow procedure,
either approve or deny the application.
      1.   In case of approval, notify the applicant in writing of the approval
and include that commercial towing firm in the police-ordered tow procedure.
      2.   In the case of disapproval, notify the applicant in writing of the
denial and of the basis for the denial, which may be nonconformance with any
part of this article. If it appears that the basis for denial can be corrected,
the notice shall so state and include suggestions how the correction can be
made. The notice of denial shall inform the applicant that he may appeal the
denial as set forth in the procedure for appeal set out in section
3-5C-6 of this article. (Ord. 3267, 4-4-1983)
3-5C-4: MINIMUM STANDARDS:
Commercial towing firms, to be included in the police-ordered tow procedure,
shall conform to the following minimum standards:
   A.   Provide a business location within the city limits;
   B.   Provide police-ordered tow procedure on a twenty four (24) hour basis;
   C.   Provide a central dispatch number on a twenty four (24) hour basis;
   D.   Provide a secure storage area for vehicles which were the subject of a
police-ordered tow procedure;
   E.   Provide immediate response to emergency police-ordered tows;
   F.   Respond to nonemergency police-ordered tows within twenty (20) minutes
or less;
   G.   Provide a minimum of one wrecker with a lift capacity of sixteen (16)
ton mounted on a two (2) ton or greater truck chassis;
   H.   Comply with city traffic ordinance 2644.408, clearing up wrecks;
   I.   Comply with all applicable provisions of Iowa Code chapter 321, and the
corresponding provision of any successor Iowa law. (Ord. 3267, 4-4-1983)
3-5C-5: SUSPENSION:
   A.   Commercial towing firms failing to maintain the minimum standards set
out in this article will, following a review of all recommendations for
suspension by the office of the chief of police, be removed from the police-
ordered tow procedure.
      1.   Approved commercial towing firms failing to comply with the
established response times will be subject to the following:
 
1st, 2nd and 3rd incident Written warning
4th incident              30 day suspension
5th incident              60 day suspension
6th incident              1 year suspension and must reapply
 
      2.   Approved commercial towing firms failing to remain in compliance
with the remaining named standards will be subject to suspension from the
police-ordered tow procedures until they are in compliance with the established
standards.
   B.   When a recommendation for suspension has been received, reviewed and
approved by the chief of police, the chief of police shall notify the affected
commercial towing firm in writing stating the basis for the suspension, which
may be nonconformance with any part of this article. The notice shall inform
the affected commercial towing firm that they may appeal the suspension as set
forth in the procedure for appeal set out in section
3-5C-6 of this article. (Ord. 3267, 4-4-1983)
3-5C-6: APPEAL:
The procedure for appeal shall be as follows:
   A.   Within ten (10) days after receipt of the notice of suspension, the
affected commercial towing firm representative shall file a notice of appeal
with the city clerk addressed to the public safety committee of the city
council stating the basis for the appeal.
   B.   The city clerk shall cause the affected commercial towing firm
representative to be given notice, by mail at least seven (7) days in advance
of the date of hearing, of the time and place of hearing before the public
safety committee. Notice of such hearing shall also be posted as part of the
city council agenda for that meeting.
   C.   The affected commercial towing firm representative may appear before
the public safety committee and the commercial towing firm representative may
make an oral presentation of his appeal, or he may make the appeal through a
written statement, or he may do both. The public safety committee shall rule on
the appeal within seven (7) business days after it is heard. Such ruling shall
be final unless either party appeals to the city council within the next
following ten (10) business days. (Ord. 3267, 4-4-1983)
CHAPTER 6
ALARM SYSTEMS
SECTION:
3-6-1: Purpose And Definitions
3-6-2: False Alarms; Fees
3-6-3: Service By Mail
3-6-4: Judicial Review
3-6-5: Penalties For Violation
3-6-1: PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to provide minimum standards and
regulations applicable to burglar and "holdup alarm systems" and alarm users as
defined in this chapter.
   B.   For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words,
and their derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words used in the plural number include the singular number, and
masculine pronouns include the feminine. The word "shall" is always mandatory
and not merely directory.
ALARM SYSTEM: An assembly of equipment and devices (or a single device such as
a solid state unit) arranged to signal the presence of a hazard requiring
urgent attention and to which police or alarm agents are expected to respond.
In this chapter the term "alarm system" shall include the terms "automatic
holdup alarm system", "burglar alarm systems", "holdup alarm systems", and
"manual holdup alarm systems" as those terms are hereinafter defined. Alarm
systems which monitor temperature, humidity or any other condition not directly
related to the detection of an unauthorized intrusion into a premises are
specifically excluded from the provisions of this chapter.
ALARM USER: Any person on whose premises an alarm system is maintained within
the city except for alarm systems on motor vehicles or proprietary systems. If,
however, an alarm system on a motor vehicle is connected with an alarm system
at a premises (other than a proprietary system) the person using such system is
an alarm user. Also excluded from this definition and from the coverage of this
chapter are persons who use alarm systems to alert or signal persons within the
premises in which the alarm system is located, of an attempted unauthorized
intrusion or holdup attempt. If such a system, however, employs an audible
signal emitting sounds or a flashing light or beacon designed to signal persons
outside the premises, such system shall be within the definition of an alarm
system and shall be subject to this chapter.
AUTOMATIC HOLDUP ALARM SYSTEM: An alarm system in which the signal transmission
is initiated by the action of a robber.
BURGLAR ALARM SYSTEM: Refers to an alarm system signaling an entry or attempted
entry into the area protected by the system.
CITY: The city of Waterloo, Iowa.
FALSE ALARM: The activation of an alarm system through careless use by the
owner or lessee of an alarm system or by his employees or agents. Such
terminology does not include, for example, alarms caused by hurricanes,
tornadoes, earthquakes or other violent conditions.
FISCAL YEAR: From July 1 through June 30 of the subsequent year.
HOLDUP ALARM SYSTEM: Refers to an alarm system signaling a robbery or attempted
robbery.
LOCAL ALARM SYSTEM: Refers to a signaling system which when activated causes an
audible and/or visual signaling device to be activated in or on the premises
within which the system is installed.
MANUAL HOLDUP ALARM SYSTEM: Refers to an alarm system in which the signal
transmission is initiated by the direct action of the person attacked or by an
observer of the attack.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind.
POLICE CHIEF: The chief of the police department of the city, or his designated
representative.
POLICE OR POLICE DEPARTMENT: The publicly supported police department of the
city, or any authorized agent thereof.
PROPRIETARY SYSTEM: An alarm system sounding and/or recording alarm signals at
a control center located within the protected premises, the control center
being under the supervision of the proprietor of the protected premises. If a
proprietary system includes a signal line connected directly or by means of an
automatic dialing device to a police communication center, a central station
modified central station, or answering service, it thereby becomes an "alarm
system" as defined in this section.
PUBLIC SAFETY COMMITTEE: That group selected from the city council to form that
committee. (Ord. 4454, 1-16-2001)
3-6-2: FALSE ALARMS; FEES:
   A.   An alarm user will be charged for each false alarm a fee pursuant to
the following false alarm charge schedule:
   False Alarm Fee Schedule Beginning Each Fiscal Year
 
First      $50.00
Subsequent 75.00
 
Alarm users will only be charged for careless use of the alarms and not for
malfunctions due to telephone company repairs or the alarm equipment itself.
All alarm users shall be granted two (2) careless use alarms, without a fee
schedule charge, during each fiscal year. All careless use alarms after the two
(2) nonchargeable alarms shall be subject to the false alarm fee schedule.
Further, if an alarm user refuses to respond to the place of business or
residence to reset the alarm after officers have responded to that location,
the alarm call will be handled as a careless use alarm and the appropriate fee
charged.
   B.   If any alarm user fails to pay a false alarm charge within thirty (30)
days of being billed, the police chief may issue written notice by first-class
mail of his intention to disconnect the alarm user's alarm from its connection
to the police department or of his intention to refuse to authorize response by
police department personnel to future alarms from that alarm user's alarm
system. Any false alarm charge, which is more than thirty (30) days delinquent,
shall incur interest at the rate of one and one-half percent (11/2%) per month
until paid in full.
   C.   The alarm user will have the right to appeal the disconnection or
refusal to respond by the police department, subsection B of this section.
Written notice of the time and place of hearing shall be served on the alarm
user by the city clerk by first- class mail at least ten (10) days prior to the
date set for hearing.
   D.   At the hearing before the public safety committee, the alarm user or
his authorized representative shall have the right to confront and examine
witnesses, and to present evidence as to his delinquency. After the hearing,
the public safety committee may order disconnection, or may refuse to respond
to future alarms from that alarm user's alarm system or may withdraw the notice
if he is satisfied there is no delinquency.
   E.   Any alarm user whose alarm system has been disconnected or to whose
alarm system the police chief has determined no future response will be made
pursuant to this section shall have the right, within ten (10) days after
receiving notice of said action from the police chief, to file a written appeal
by first-class mail or hand delivery to the city clerk, and no alarm user shall
be required to discontinue use of his alarm system prior to the expiration of
such ten (10) day period. Such appeal shall set forth the specific ground or
grounds on which it is based. The public safety committee shall hold a hearing
on the appeal and shall cause the appellant to be given at least seven (7)
days' written notice of such hearing. At the hearing the appellant or his
designated representative, shall have the right to present written or oral
argument, or both, in support of his appeal. The public safety committee shall
issue its decision within seven (7) days after the hearing.
   F.   If an alarm user files an appeal pursuant to subsection E of this
section, he shall not be required to discontinue use of the alarm system until
a final decision is made on his appeal.
   G.   Any alarm user whose alarm system has been disconnected from the police
communication center is not precluded under this section from applying for a
new connection. The police chief, however, is not required to allow a new
connection unless past delinquencies have been satisfied, the police chief is
satisfied that the applicant will meet the obligations proposed under this
chapter in the future, and sufficient board space is available at the police
department for the connection. (Ord. 4454, 1-16-2001)
3-6-3:   SERVICE BY MAIL:
Whenever a person, the police chief or any city official or employee is
required to make delivery by first-class mail, delivery, in lieu thereof, may
be by personal delivery as set out in the Iowa rules of civil procedure. (Ord.
4454, 1-16-2001)
3-6-4: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Nothing herein shall be deemed to deny to any person claiming to be aggrieved
by any determination hereunder any applicable judicial remedies provided for by
the laws of the state of Iowa, including the right to appeal to district court.
(Ord. 4454, 1-16-2001)
3-6-5: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION:
Any violation of this chapter constitutes a municipal infraction and shall be
punishable by the following, including injunctive relief. Each day that the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
 
First offense           $200.00
Second offense          500.00
Each subsequent offense 750.00
 
(Ord. 4454, 1-16-2001)
CHAPTER 7
CABLE TV FRANCHISE REGULATIONS 1
SECTION:
3-7-1: Short Title
3-7-2: Intent And Purpose
3-7-3: Definitions
3-7-4: Grant Of Authority; General Provisions
3-7-5: Design Provisions
3-7-6: Service Provisions
3-7-7: Construction Provisions
3-7-8: Operation And Reporting Provisions
3-7-9: Consumer Protection Provisions
3-7-10: General Financial And Insurance Provisions
3-7-11: Foreclosure, Receivership Or Abandonment
3-7-12: Removal, Transfer And Purchase
3-7-13: Rights Of Individuals Protected
3-7-14: Miscellaneous Provisions
3-7-15: Effective Date; Publication And Time Of Acceptance
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 13 of this code.
3-7-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the CITY OF WATERLOO CABLE FRANCHISE
ORDINANCE. Within this document it shall also be referred to as "this
franchise" or "the franchise". (Ord. 4154, 2-19-1996)
3-7-2: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The city intends, by the adoption of this chapter, to bring about the
development and operation of a cable system. This development can contribute
significantly to the communications needs and desires of many individuals,
associations and institutions. (Ord. 4154, 2-19-1996)
3-7-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given in this section. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future tense, words in the plural number include the singular number and words
in the singular number include the plural number. All capitalized terms used in
the definition of any other term shall have their meaning as otherwise defined
in this section. The words "shall" and "will" are mandatory and "may" is
permissive. Words not defined shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
BASIC SERVICE: Any service tier which includes the retransmission of local
television broadcast signals.
CABLE ACT: The cable communications policy act of 1984, pub. L. no. 98-549, 98
stat. 2779 (1984) (codified at 47 USC sections 521-611 (1982 & supp. V 1987))
and any amendments thereto.
CABLE SERVICE: a) The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming
or other programming service; and b) subscriber interactive programming or
other programming service, or any other lawful communications service.
CABLE SYSTEM: A facility, consisting of a set of closed transmission paths and
associated signal generation, reception and control equipment that is designed
to provide cable service which includes programming and which is provided to
multiple subscribers within a community, but such term does not include: a) a
facility that serves only to retransmit the television signals of one or more
television broadcast stations; b) a facility that serves only subscribers in
one or more multiple unit dwellings under common ownership, control or
management, unless such facility or facilities use any public right of way; c)
a facility of common carrier which is subject, in whole or in part, to the
provisions of title II of the cable act, except that such facility shall be
considered a cable system (other than for purposes of section 621 (c) of title
I of the cable act) to the extent such facility is used in the transmission of
video programming directly to subscribers; or d) any facilities of any electric
utility used solely for operating its electric utility system.
CABLE SYSTEM UPGRADE: The process by which the system shall be upgraded
pursuant to subsection
3-7-5A of this chapter.
CHANNEL: A portion of the electromagnetic frequency spectrum which is used in a
cable system and which is capable of delivering a television channel as defined
by the FCC.
CITY: The city of Waterloo, Iowa, or, as appropriate in the case of specific
provisions of this franchise, any board, bureau, authority, agency, commission,
department of, or any other entity of or acting on behalf of, the city of
Waterloo, or any officer, official, employee or any successor thereto.
CITY COUNCIL: The governing body of the city.
COMPLAINT: Any verbal or written inquiry, allegation or assertion made by a
person which requires subsequent corrective action to the cable system or any
portion thereof, or raises an objection to the programming or business
practices of grantee. The term "complaint" does not include an inquiry which is
immediately answered by the grantee.
CONVERTER: A device utilized by a subscriber to change the frequency of a
signal.
DROP: The cable that connects the subscriber terminal at a point in the
subscriber's home, designated by the subscriber, to the nearest feeder cable of
the cable system.
FCC: The Federal Communications Commission, its designee, or any successor
thereto.
GRANTEE: Any person granted a franchise hereunder, its agents, employees and
representatives, or the lawful successor, transferee or assignee thereof.
GROSS REVENUES: Any and all revenues of any kind or nature received directly or
indirectly by the grantee derived from the operation or existence of the cable
system. Gross revenues shall not include revenues derived directly from
national advertising which may be carried on the cable system. This sum shall
be the basis for computing the fee imposed pursuant to subsection
 3-7-10A of this chapter. This sum shall not include any taxes on services
furnished by the grantee which are imposed upon any subscriber or user by the
state, county, city or other governmental unit and collected by the grantee on
behalf of said governmental unit, including the access support fee identified
in subsection
3-7-6G of this chapter. There shall be no other deductions from this sum for
uncollected accounts or any other item unless specified herein or as specified
in federal law.
INSTALLATION: The act of connecting the cable system from the feeder cable to
the subscriber terminal so that cable television service may be received by the
subscriber.
INSTITUTIONAL NETWORK: The cable or cables, electronics and ancillary equipment
provided pursuant to subsection
3-7-6E of this chapter.
LOCAL OFFICE: A location where the grantee or its agents are available to
conduct business with subscribers during normal business hours. Such business
could include bill payments, equipment returns, service complaints, new
subscriptions or disconnections.
NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS: As applied to the grantee, shall mean those hours during
which similar businesses in the city are open to serve customers. In all cases
normal business hours must include some evening hours at least one night per
week, and/or some weekend hours.
NORMAL OPERATING CONDITIONS: Those service conditions which are within the
control of the grantee. Those conditions which are not within the control of
the grantee include, but are not limited to, natural disasters, civil
disturbances, power outages, telephone network outages and severe or unusual
weather conditions. Those conditions which are ordinarily within the control of
the grantee include, but are not limited to, special promotions, pay-per-view
events, subscriber billing, regular peak or seasonal demand periods and
maintenance or upgrade of the cable system.
PERSON: Any natural person or any association, firm, partnership, joint
venture, limited liability company, corporation or other legally recognized
entity, whether for-profit or not-for-profit.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Any real property, other than a street, owned by any
governmental unit.
SERVICE INTERRUPTION: The loss of picture or sound on one or more cable
channels.
SIGNAL: Any transmission or reception of radio frequency energy or of optical
information.
STREET: The surface of and the space above and below any public street, public
road, public highway, public freeway, public lane, public path, public way,
public alley, public court, public sidewalk, public boulevard, public parkway,
public drive or any public easement or right of way now or hereafter held by
the city which shall, within its proper use and meaning in the sole opinion of
the city, entitle grantee to the use thereof for the purpose of installing or
transmitting over poles, wires, cables, conductors, ducts, conduits, vaults,
manholes, amplifiers, appliances, attachments and other property as may be
ordinarily necessary and pertinent to a cable system.
SUBSCRIBER: Any person or entity who lawfully subscribes to a cable service
provided by grantee by means of or in connection with the cable system whether
or not a fee is paid for such service.
TWO-WAY CABLE SYSTEM: Pursuant to subsection
3-7-5A of this chapter, means that the headend, trunk cables, distribution
plant, amplifiers and other technical components of the cable system have the
requisite equipment to potentially provide video, audio, voice, and/or data
signals in both directions simultaneously. (Ord. 4154, 2-19-1996)
3-7-4: GRANT OF AUTHORITY; GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Authority For Use Of Streets:
      1.   For the purpose of constructing, operating, and maintaining a cable
system in the city, grantee may erect, install, construct, repair, replace,
relocate, reconstruct and retain in, on, over, under, upon, across and along
the streets within the city such lines, cables, conductors, ducts, conduits,
vaults, manholes, amplifiers, appliances, pedestals, attachments and other
property and equipment as are necessary and appurtenant to the operation of the
cable system, provided that all applicable permits are applied for and granted,
all fees paid and all other lawful city codes and ordinances are otherwise
complied with.
      2.   Prior to any construction, reconstruction, or rebuilding of the
cable system, grantee shall, in each case, file plans with the city. This
requirement shall be in addition to grantee's obligations specified in
subsection
3-7-5A2 of this chapter.
      3.   Grantee shall construct and maintain the cable system so as not to
interfere with other uses of streets. Grantee shall make use of existing poles
available to grantee, unless grantee chooses to install underground. Grantee
shall widely publicize proposed construction work prior to commencement of that
work. Such publicity shall include, but not be limited to: a) publication in
local newspapers identifying all affected areas, dates of such work and
grantee's telephone number; b) a character-generated notice on the public
access channel, which both parties recognize may be preempted by the city,
which shall appear on the cable system a reasonable number of times during
prime time viewing hours to place subscribers on notice. Except in case of
emergency beyond grantee's reasonable control, grantee shall individually
notify verbally or in writing all residents affected by proposed underground
work, when such work shall affect thirty percent (30%) or more of existing
subscribers, not less than forty eight (48) hours prior to commencement of that
work. Such notice shall include the grantee's telephone number.
      4.   Notwithstanding the above grant to use the streets, grantee may only
use such streets for normal cable system operations and may not substantially
deviate from the intended use of such streets. The city may determine whether
grantee's use is materially inconsistent or a substantial deviation from the
terms, conditions or provisions by which such street was created or dedicated,
or presently used. The city may not unreasonably withhold access to said
streets.
   B.   Nature Of Franchise: Upon acceptance, the grantee's nonexclusive
franchise for the occupation and use of the streets within the city for the
construction, operation, maintenance, upgrade, repair and removal of the cable
system in accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed to be
valid.
   C.   Franchise Term: A franchise shall commence upon acceptance by grantee
and compliance with all applicable provisions of Iowa law as defined herein.
   D.   Area Covered: This chapter is applicable within the city limits of
Waterloo. In the event of annexation by the city, any new territory shall
become part of the area covered.
   E.   Use Of Grantee Facilities: The city shall have the right to install and
maintain at a charge consistent with grantee's incurred costs from the city, or
telephone company, including other applicable utility rental charges, upon the
poles and within the underground pipes and conduits of grantee, any wires and
fixtures desired by the city to the extent that such installation and
maintenance does not interfere with existing and future operations of grantee
and provided that city holds grantee harmless against and from all claims,
demands, costs or liabilities of every kind and nature whatsoever arising out
of such use of poles or conduits, including, but not limited to, reasonable
attorney fees and costs.
   F.   Written Notice: All reasonable notices, reports or demands required to
be given in writing under this chapter shall be deemed to be given when
delivered personally to the person designated below, or when five (5) days have
elapsed after it is deposited in the United States mail in a sealed envelope,
with registered or certified mail postage prepaid thereon, or on the next
addressed business day if sent by express mail or overnight air courier
addressed to the party to which notice is being given, as follows:
   City Attorney's Office
   City of Waterloo, Iowa
   715 Mulberry Street
   Waterloo, IA 50703
   Attn: Cable Commission
   G.   Franchise Nonexclusive: Any franchise granted herein is nonexclusive.
The city specifically reserves the right to grant, at any time, additional
franchises for a cable system in accordance with state and federal law. Subject
to the Cable Act, in the event that the city enters into a cable franchise with
any other person or entity other than grantee, to enter into the city's streets
and public ways for the purpose of constructing or operating a cable system,
the material provisions thereof shall not be more favorable or less burdensome
than those contained herein, considering all the circumstances.
   H.   Compliance With Laws:
      1.   Subject to applicable local, state and federal law, grantee's rights
are subject to the lawful police powers of the city to adopt and enforce
ordinances necessary to the health, safety and welfare of the public.
      2.   This chapter is subject to all applicable federal laws and
regulations and shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of
the state.
      3.   This chapter is adopted as an exercise of the city's governmental
powers, pursuant to the specific authority conferred upon it by Iowa law. (Ord.
4154, 2-19-1996)
3-7-5: DESIGN PROVISIONS:
   A.   Cable System Design:
      1.   Grantee shall immediately undertake all necessary steps to rebuild
and/or substantially upgrade and, thereafter, operate and maintain over the
term of any franchise, the cable system utilizing fiberoptic technology or
other substantially similar and equally effective technology to significantly
improve signal quality and reliableness of the cable system and greatly reduce
the number of amplifiers in line between the headend and/or node and the
extremity points of the cable system. Upon completion of said rebuilding and/or
substantial upgrading, the cable system shall have the capability of delivering
at least seventy seven (77) television channels. Construction shall be
completed on or before December 31, 1999, and shall be fully operational within
thirty (30) days following completion of construction. Grantee recognizes that
completion of construction on or before December 31, 1999, shall be considered
a material term of this franchise, the violation of which shall be grounds for
revocation pursuant to subsection
3-7-10J of this chapter.
      2.   Grantee shall make available to the city for inspection at grantee's
Waterloo office, a full description of the cable system proposed for
construction, including as-built maps for the entire cable system, as rebuilt
or substantially upgraded, to the extent such maps have not been previously
provided to the city.
   B.   Interconnection:
      1.   The cable system shall be designed to be interconnected with other
cable systems operated by grantee.
      2.   The city may request grantee to negotiate interconnecting the
institutional network or cable system, or both, with other adjacent systems in
the general area. Grantee shall use its best efforts to negotiate such
interconnection and shall keep the city informed of the progress of any
negotiations.
   C.   Provision Of Service:
      1.   After service has been established by activating trunk and
distribution cable for any area, subject to minimum density requirements set
forth in subsection
3-7-9D of this chapter, grantee shall provide service to any requesting
subscriber within that area seven (7) days from the date the subscriber's
request is received by grantee's customer service representative.
      2.   Grantee shall install and provide its most complete cable service
which shall, at a minimum, include basic service and expanded service
(excluding, but not necessarily limited to, premium, pay-per-view and DMX-
digital radio service) to all public buildings designated by the city at no
charge for the initial installation nor for monthly service provided at each
location. Each of these installations shall include a signal drop, one outlet
and one converter (or such other terminal equipment as may be necessary to
provide an electronic interface with a television receiver). The public
buildings to be provided this service, subject to the terms and conditions of
this franchise, shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
         a.   Each city public school building;
         b.   Each city fire station;
         c.   Two (2) locations in the city hall complex, to be designated by
the cable commission;
         d.   All public library locations within the city limits;
         e.   The police department;
         f.   AEA 7;
         g.   All existing parochial schools; and
         h.   Any additional or relocated public agency, so long as such
buildings are within six hundred feet (600') from the existing cable system and
grantee receives advanced written notice at the same time as other utilities to
enable grantee to minimize costs associated with such installation. If a public
agency fails to provide grantee notice substantially the same as that provided
by other utilities, service will be provided at grantee's cost for time and
materials only.
         i.   Hawkeye Community College.
   D.   Technical Standards: The cable system shall be designed, constructed
and operated so as to meet those technical standards promulgated by the federal
communications commission relating to cable systems contained in part 76 of the
federal communications commission's rules and regulations relating to cable
systems and found in Code of Federal Regulations, title 47, sections 76.601 to
76.617, as amended, or as may, from time to time, be amended. Grantee shall
provide the city with a list of the tests required by the Federal
Communications Commission. The city may reasonably request in writing copies of
any test results and/or other reports submitted by grantee to the FCC. Grantee
shall provide a copy of such test results when requested in writing by the city
within fourteen (14) days of receipt of such written request. Grantee shall
provide the above-referenced list within sixty (60) days of adoption of this
franchise and shall update the list as necessary throughout the term of the
franchise.
   E.   Special Testing:
      1.   At any time after commencement of service to subscribers, the city
may require or may retain an independent engineer to perform additional tests,
full or partial repeat tests, different test procedures, or tests involving a
specific subscriber's drop. Grantee shall have reasonable notice of any such
tests and shall have an opportunity to have a designated employee present. Such
additional tests will be made on the basis of complaints received or other
evidence indicating an unresolved controversy or significant noncompliance, and
such tests will be limited to the particular matter in controversy.
      2.   The city shall endeavor to so arrange its requests for such special
tests so as to minimize hardship or inconvenience to grantee or to the
subscriber.
      3.   If such special testing establishes that the cable system
substantially meets all required technical standards, the city shall bear the
expense for such special testing.
      4.   If such special testing establishes that the cable system does not
substantially meet all required technical standards, grantee shall bear the
expense for such special testing and shall immediately undertake all necessary
steps to correct the problem.
   F.   Signal Quality: The cable system shall distribute a video signal on all
activated channels in a subscriber's home, in black and white or color,
depending upon whether color is being cablecast, that is reasonably undistorted
and free from internally generated ghost images, graininess or snow, vertical,
horizontal or diagonal interference lines and without degradation of color
fidelity. The cable system shall distribute audio that is reasonably
undistorted from its reception quality and of consistent loudness level on a
television receiver of average quality.
   G.   Monthly Testing: Grantee shall conduct monthly technical performance
tests as required by the FCC and shall provide to the city copies of the test
results within fourteen (14) days of a written request from the city.
   H.   Monthly Operational Status Reports: Upon request, grantee shall provide
monthly reports to the city of the following statistical information: 1) number
of repair service requests; 2) breakdown by type of complaints received; 3)
breakdown by cause of problems experienced on the cable system; 4) breakdown by
type of response or resolution of complaints received or problems experienced
with the cable system. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth
herein, grantee may reasonably designate information released to the city as
proprietary or confidential in nature. To the extent legally permissible, the
city agrees to treat any information disclosed by grantee to it as confidential
and only to disclose it to employees, representatives, and agents thereof that
have a need to know, or in order to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 4154, 2-19-1996)
3-7-6: SERVICE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Programming: Grantee shall, at a minimum, provide these categories of
programming:
   Children's and educational
   Religious
   Sports
   News
   Weather
   B.   Audio Service: Grantee shall offer an audio service as an optional
service on the cable system.
   C.   Programming Decisions: All programming decisions shall be at grantee's
discretion subject to applicable provisions of local, state and federal law.
Programming should reflect the diversity of interests and backgrounds present
in the city, including, but not limited to, race, color, gender, age, religion,
civil status, political conviction, language, disability status, ethnic or
national origin, ancestry, education, social or economic status.
   D.   Emergency Alert Cable System (EAS): To the extent not directly
prohibited by local, state and federal laws and regulations, grantee shall
install and thereafter maintain an emergency alert cable system (EAS). This
cable system shall be remotely activated by telephone and shall allow a Black
Hawk County emergency management representative to override the audio on all
channels of the cable system in the event of a civil emergency or for
reasonable tests.
   E.   Institutional Network:
      1.   Grantee shall construct, activate, and thereafter maintain an
institutional network.
      2.   The institutional network shall be designed and constructed so as to
pass the locations served as of January 1, 1993.
      3.   Grantee shall provide one free drop and one interior outlet from the
institutional network to each institution at a location selected by that
institution. The institutional network shall be extended to pass other
institutions not listed in subsection E2 of this section at the expense (for
materials and labor only) of the requesting party.
      4.   The institutional network shall be fully activated for two-way
transmission throughout its entirety, permitting carriage of the equivalent of
at least thirty six (36) standard six (6) MHz channels downstream, and six (6)
standard six (6) MHz channels upstream.
      5.   Grantee shall be under no obligation to purchase any additional
headend equipment other than that which is in existence on July 1, 1993, and
which is specified in subsections E4 and E9 of this section; provided, however,
nothing contained herein shall prevent or restrict: a) grantee from providing
equipment to various users; or b) a user from purchasing, after consultation
with grantee, additional headend equipment. Grantee shall thereafter maintain
any equipment so purchased by a user, and grantee may charge the user for
grantee's actual cost of maintenance.
      6.   Unless otherwise provided by grantee, the user of any channel(s) on
the institutional network shall be responsible for purchasing and maintaining
any additional equipment necessary at the user's site. Grantee shall consult
and cooperate with the user in order that compatible equipment will be
purchased.
      7.   The city and grantee shall develop jointly a policy regarding the
allocation of channels on the institutional network including the terms and
conditions for the use of any channels.
      8.   There shall be no channel time use charges, maintenance charges,
repair service charges, AC power charges, or other such ongoing charges levied
by grantee for any public service use of the institutional network.
      9.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained within this
franchise, grantee shall continue to provide, maintain, repair and/or replace
all existing signal processors to the headend of the institutional network
serving the city's schools, to facilitate various educational projects.
   F.   Access Channels:
      1.   Grantee shall supply to the city, without charge, a minimum of one
activated channel on the cable system as a governmental channel and shall
supply, without charge, a minimum of one activated channel on the cable system
as a public channel, and shall supply, without charge, a minimum of one
activated channel on the cable system as an educational channel for the city's
public schools, the University of Northern Iowa, and the area education agency.
Upon completion of the system upgrade and in addition to the above-referenced
requirements, grantee shall supply, without charge, an additional two (2)
activated channels on the cable system as educational channels for the city's
schools, Hawkeye Community College the area education agency and other
appropriate educational institutions. The access channels shall not be placed
on any cable channel that may experience direct pickup interference from over-
the-air broadcast stations.
      2.   Grantee shall have the right to utilize the two (2) additional
educational access channels referenced above until such time as the city
indicates a need for such additional channel capacity. The city shall provide
grantee ninety (90) days' advanced written notice that an additional
educational access channel shall be required for use by the city.
      3.   The grantee may also use the specially designed channels, referenced
in subsection F1 of this section, during those hours when the channels are not
in use by the general public, local educational authorities or local
government. Preference regarding use of the specially designated channels,
referenced in subsection F1 of this section, shall always be given to public,
educational and governmental users.
      4.   No charges may be made for channel time or playback of prerecorded
programming on the specially designated channels referenced in subsection F1 of
this section.
      5.   Whenever the specially designated access channels required in this
subsection are in use an average of eight (8) hours per day, seven (7) days per
week, for eight (8) weeks running with programming which is produced in the
state, and there is demand for use of additional channels for the same purpose,
grantee shall have three (3) months in which to provide a new specially
designated access channel for the same purpose; provided, however, that the
cable system has been upgraded to a capacity of seventy seven (77) channels and
that said access channel does not interfere with existing use of the channel
capacity on the cable system. In no event shall grantee be required to provide
more than six (6) access channels.
      6.   Grantee may establish rules pertaining to the administration of the
specially designated access channels required in this subsection which shall be
reviewed and approved by the city. (Ord. 4154, 2-19-1996)
   G.   Access Equipment And Facilities: After: 1) the approval of the
franchising authority to the inclusion of the capital contribution on
subscriber's bills, including any required approval pursuant to 47 CFR section
76.933; 2) notice to grantee's subscribers of the inclusion; and 3) the
commencement of collection of the capital contribution by grantee from its
subscribers, grantee shall provide ongoing capital support for public,
educational and governmental access equipment, facilities and operations in the
amount of thirty five cents ($0.35) per subscriber per month for the entire
term of this franchise payable in the same manner as franchise fee payments
pursuant to subsection
3-7-10A of this chapter. Payments of this ongoing capital support shall not be
deemed to be "franchise fees" within the meaning of section 622 of the cable
act (47 USC section 542), and such payment shall not be deemed to be: 1)
"payments in kind" or any involuntary payments chargeable against the
compensation to be paid to the city by grantee pursuant to section
3-7-10 of this chapter; or 2) part of the compensation to be paid to the city
by grantee pursuant to section
3-7-10 of this chapter. (Ord. 4525, 11-13-2001)
3-7-7: CONSTRUCTION PROVISIONS:
   A.   Construction Timetable:
      1.   Grantee shall give notice to the city sixty (60) days prior to the
anticipated completion date of any cable system upgrade and again at such time
as grantee has, in fact, completed all construction.
      2.   Upon receipt of notice that all construction has been completed, the
city shall have sixty (60) days to obtain a written report from an independent
engineer paid by the city confirming the completion of construction; provided,
however, that if the city fails to obtain such a written report within said
sixty (60) days, the construction shall be deemed completed, unless the failure
to obtain such a report is due to unforeseen events, acts of God or events
beyond the reasonable control of the city.
      3.   Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the city
may condition completion of construction upon receipt of a written report from
an independent engineer, which report confirms the following:
         a.   That all construction has been completed or otherwise
satisfactorily resolved;
         b.   Satisfactory test results using the technical standards set forth
in subsection
3-7-5E of this chapter at up to ten (10) widely separated subscriber drops
selected by the independent engineer and using the following tests:
   Bandpass response of cable system
   Carrier to noise
   Hum
   Signal level
         c.   Compliance with all applicable codes and standards.
         d.   Installation and the proper working of the emergency alert cable
system required at subsection
3-7-6D of this chapter.
   B.   Construction Delay: Grantee shall notify the city of any delay in the
construction. The city shall excuse only upon occurrence of unforeseen events
beyond grantee's reasonable control or acts of God.
   C.   Construction Standards:
      1.   All construction practices shall be in accordance with all
applicable sections of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, as
amended, as well as all state and local codes where applicable.
      2.   All installation of electronic equipment shall be of a permanent
nature, durable and installed in accordance with the provisions of the National
Electrical and Safety Code and National Electrical Code.
      3.   Antennas and their supporting structures (tower) shall be painted,
lighted, erected and maintained in accordance with all applicable rules and
regulations of the federal aviation administration and all other applicable
state or local laws, codes and regulations.
      4.   All of grantee's plant and equipment, including, but not limited to,
the antenna site, headend and distribution cable system, towers, house
connections, structures, poles, wire, coaxial cable, fixtures and appurtenances
shall be installed, located, erected, constructed, reconstructed, replaced,
removed, repaired, maintained and operated in accordance with good engineering
practices, performed by experienced maintenance and construction personnel so
as not to endanger or interfere with improvements the city may deem appropriate
to make or to interfere in any manner with the rights of any property owner, or
to unnecessarily hinder or obstruct pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
      5.   Grantee shall at all times employ ordinary care and shall install
and maintain in use commonly accepted methods and devices preventing failures
and accidents which are likely to cause damage, injury or nuisance to the
public.
   D.   Construction Codes And Permits:
      1.   Grantee shall obtain all required permits from the city before
commencing any work requiring a permit, including the opening or disturbance of
any street, or public property or public easement within the city, such permits
not to be unreasonably withheld. Grantee shall strictly adhere to all building
and zoning codes currently or hereafter applicable to construction, operation
or maintenance of the cable system in the city.
      2.   The city shall have the right, at its cost, to inspect all
construction or installation work performed pursuant to the provisions of this
franchise and to make such tests as it shall find necessary to ensure
compliance with the terms of the franchise and applicable provisions of local,
state and federal law. Such inspections shall not interfere with said
construction or installation work.
      3.   Nothing contained in this franchise shall be construed to give
grantee the authority to enter upon or work on private property in areas not
encumbered with public easements without the permission of the property owner.
   E.   Repair Of Streets And Property: Any and all streets or public property
or private property, which are disturbed or damaged during the construction,
repair, replacement, relocation, operation, maintenance or reconstruction of
the cable system shall be promptly repaired by grantee, at its expense, to a
condition substantially the same as that prevailing prior to grantee's
construction.
   F.   Use Of Existing Poles: Grantee shall not erect, for any reason, any
pole on or along any street in an existing aerial utility cable system without
the advance written approval of the city, such approval not to be unreasonably
withheld. Grantee shall exercise its best efforts to negotiate the lease of
pole space and facilities from the existing pole owners for all aerial
construction.
   G.   Undergrounding Of Cable:
      1.   Cable shall be installed underground at grantee's expense where both
the existing telephone and electrical utilities are already underground unless
pole lines exist, are not scheduled to be removed and such pole lines are being
utilized. Grantee shall endeavor to place cable underground in newly platted
areas in concert with both the telephone and electrical utilities.
      2.   In the event that telephone or electric utilities are reimbursed by
the city or any agency thereof for the placement of cable underground or the
movement of cable, grantee shall be reimbursed upon the same terms and
conditions as the telephone or electric utilities.
      3.   In the event an underground installation is required and the ground
is frozen, saturated or otherwise unable to immediately facilitate underground
installation, such installation shall be performed on a temporary basis in
compliance with all state and federal rules, regulations, codes, or other
generally applicable standards. As soon as conditions change to permit proper
underground installation of cable, grantee shall immediately undertake all
necessary steps to install the cable underground pursuant to the terms and
conditions of this franchise and in no event shall completion of all
undergrounding of cable occur later than August 1. Grantee shall be excused
upon occurrences of unforeseen events beyond grantee's reasonable control or
for acts of God.
   H.   Reservation Of Street Rights:
      1.   Nothing in this franchise shall be construed to prevent the city
from constructing, maintaining, repairing or relocating sewers; grading,
paving, maintaining, repairing, relocating and/or altering any street;
constructing, laying down, repairing, maintaining or relocating any water
mains; or constructing, maintaining, relocating or repairing any sidewalk or
other public work.
      2.   All such work shall be done, insofar as practicable in such a manner
as not to obstruct, injure or prevent the free use and operation of the poles,
wires, conduits, conductors, pipes or appurtenances of grantee.
      3.   If any such property of grantee shall interfere with the
construction or relocation, maintenance or repair of any street or public
improvement, whether it be construction, repair, maintenance, removal or
relocation of a sewer, public sidewalk or water main, street or any other
public improvement, thirty (30) days' notice shall be given to grantee by the
city and all such poles, wires, conduits or other appliances and facilities
shall be removed or replaced by grantee in such manner so that the same shall
not interfere with the said public work of the city and such removal or
replacement shall be at the expense of grantee.
      4.   Nothing contained in this franchise shall relieve any person from
liability arising out of the failure to exercise reasonable care to avoid
injuring grantee's facilities while performing any work connected with grading,
regrading or changing the line of any street or public place or with the
construction or reconstruction of any sewer or water cable system.
   I.   Trimming Of Trees: Grantee shall, subject to applicable local laws and
regulations, have the authority to trim trees upon and hanging over streets,
alleys, sidewalks and public places of the city so as to prevent the branches
of such trees from coming in contact with the wires and cables of grantee;
provided, however, all trimming shall be done under the supervision of the
city, if requested by the city.
   J.   Street Vacation Or Abandonment: In the event any street or portion
thereof used by grantee shall be vacated by the city or the use thereof
discontinued by grantee during the term of this franchise, grantee shall, at
grantee's expense, subject to applicable laws, forthwith remove its facilities
therefrom unless specifically permitted by the city to continue the same, and
upon the removal thereof restore, repair or reconstruct the street area where
such removal has occurred, and replace the street area where such removal has
occurred to a condition similar to that existing before such removal took
place, but the grantee shall in all cases have the right of abandonment of its
property. In the event of failure, neglect or refusal of grantee, after thirty
(30) days' notice by the city to remove the facilities or to repair, restore,
reconstruct, improve or maintain such street portion, the city may do such work
or cause it to be done, and the reasonable cost thereof shall be paid by
grantee as directed by the city and collection may be made by any available
lawful remedy. Should the city sell property to a third party, third party
shall be responsible for reimbursement of costs to relocate.
   K.   Moving Facilities: In the event it is necessary temporarily to move or
remove any of grantee's wires, cables, poles or other facilities placed
pursuant to this franchise, in order to lawfully move a large object, vehicle,
building or other structure over the streets of the city, upon two (2) weeks'
notice by the city to grantee, grantee shall move at the expense of the person
requesting the temporary removal, such payment to be made in advance, any of
grantee's facilities as may be required to facilitate such movements. Any
service disruption provisions of this franchise shall not apply in the event
that the removal of grantee's wires, cables, poles or other facilities results
in temporary service disruptions. (Ord. 4154, 2-19-1996)
3-7-8: OPERATION AND REPORTING PROVISIONS:
   A.   Open Books And Records: The city shall have the right to inspect, upon
twenty four (24) hours' written notice, at any time during normal business
hours at the cable system office all books, records, maps, plans, revenue
statements, service complaint logs, performance test results, record of
requests for service and other like materials of grantee which are reasonably
necessary to monitor compliance with the terms of this franchise.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this chapter, grantee may
reasonably designate information provided to the city as proprietary or
confidential in nature. The city agrees to treat any information disclosed by
the grantee to it as confidential and only to disclose it to employees,
representatives and agents thereof having need to know, or in order to enforce
the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Communications With Regulatory Agencies: Copies of all petitions,
applications, communications and reports submitted by grantee or on behalf of
or relating to grantee to the FCC, securities and exchange commission or any
other federal or state regulatory commission or agency having jurisdiction in
respect to any matters affecting the cable system authorized pursuant to this
franchise shall be made available to the city upon request. Grantee shall
provide city with a list of all such above-referenced communications within
sixty (60) days of the date of adoption of this franchise to be updated, as
necessary throughout the term of this franchise. The city shall have the right
to request copies of any and all communications referenced above, as well as
copies of responses from such regulatory agencies. Grantee shall take all
reasonable steps to provide such copies within fourteen (14) days from the date
of request.
   C.   Annual Report: On or before April 1 of each year during the term of
this franchise, including the year in which the franchise becomes effective,
grantee shall file with the city a statement for the immediately preceding
fiscal year of gross revenues certified by an officer of grantee who is also a
certified public accountant.
   D.   Additional Reports: Grantee shall prepare and furnish, upon request, to
the city, at the times and in the form prescribed, such additional reports with
respect to its operation, affairs, transactions or property, which are
reasonably necessary for the administration and enforcement of this franchise.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein, grantee may
reasonably designate information provided to the city as proprietary or
confidential in nature. The city agrees to treat any information disclosed by
the grantee to it as confidential and only to disclose it to employees,
representatives and agents thereof that have a need to know, or in order to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   E.   Maps: Grantee shall provide the city with a current strand map or set
of maps drawn to scale showing the cable system in place in streets and other
public places. The maps shall be updated on a yearly basis on April 1, if
changes have been made.
   F.   Audit: The city and its agents and representatives shall have the
authority, during normal business hours, to arrange for and conduct an
inspection of the books and records of grantee solely for the purpose of
enforcing the terms and provisions of this franchise. Grantee shall first be
given ten (10) days' written notice of the inspection request, the description
of and purpose for the inspection and description, to the best of the city's
ability, of the books, records, and documents it wants to inspect. Nothing in
this subsection shall, in any way, alter or affect the ability of the city to
inspect, upon twenty four (24) hours' written notice, the books and records of
grantee pursuant to subsection A of this section.
   G.   Periodic Inspection: The city may and grantee shall, at the request of
the city, undertake an inspection of the cable system to ascertain the cable
system performance at preselected addresses based on complaints received
indicating an unresolved controversy or problem. Grantee shall have fifteen
(15) days to inspect and report to the city of any findings concerning an
unresolved controversy or problem before initiating an inspection of the cable
system.
   H.   Periodic Evaluation Sessions: The field of cable communications is a
relatively new and rapidly changing one which may see many regulatory,
technical, financial, marketing and legal changes during the term of this
franchise. Therefore, in order to provide for a maximum degree of flexibility
in this franchise, and to help achieve a continued advanced and modern cable
system, the following evaluation provisions will apply:
      1.   The city may require, at its sole discretion, evaluation sessions at
any time during the term of this franchise; provided, however, there shall not
be more than one evaluation session during any two (2) year period.
      2.   Topics which may be discussed at any evaluation session include, but
are not limited to, rates, channel capacity, the cable system performance,
programming, access, municipal uses of cable, subscriber complaints, judicial
rulings, FCC rulings and any other topics the city or grantee deems relevant.
      3.   During an evaluation session, grantee shall fully cooperate with the
city and shall provide without cost such reasonable information and pertinent
documents as the city may request to perform the evaluation.
      4.   If at any time during its evaluation the city determines that
reasonable evidence exists of inadequate cable system performance, the city may
require grantee to perform tests and analyses directed toward such suspected
inadequacies under any applicable terms and conditions of this franchise which
may include, but not be limited to, subsection
3-7-5F of this chapter. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this franchise,
the expense for such tests or analyses shall be the grantee's if system
performance is not substantially in compliance, and the city's if system
performance is in substantial compliance.
      5.   Grantee shall submit to city a written report regarding any findings
of the above-referenced tests and/or analyses regarding any inadequate cable
system performance, pursuant to the applicable terms and conditions of this
franchise, which may include, but not be limited to, subsection
3-7-5F of this chapter. The city may enlist an independent engineer to verify
testing results. The costs and expenses of such independent engineer shall be
at grantee's expense if the cable system performance is not substantially in
compliance, and at the city's expense if the cable system performance is in
substantial compliance.
      6.   As a result of an evaluation session, the city or grantee may
determine that a change in the terms of the franchise may be required, that the
cable system or franchise requirements should be updated, changed, revised or
that additional services should be provided. If the change is consistent with
the terms of this franchise or is due to regulatory, technical, financial,
marketing, inflation or legal requirements and implementation of a change would
not unreasonably add to the cost of providing cable television services,
grantee and the city will, in good faith, negotiate the terms of the change and
any required amendment to this franchise. (Ord. 4154, 2-19-1996)
3-7-9: CONSUMER PROTECTION PROVISIONS:
   A.   Approval Of Changes:
      1.   The city reserves the right to regulate rates for basic service and
any other services offered over the cable system, to the extent permitted by
federal or state law. Grantee shall maintain on file with the city at all times
a current schedule of all rates and charges. To the extent applicable and
required, the city shall comply with the rules relating to cable rate
regulation promulgated by the FCC at 47 CFR part 76.900, subpart N, or such
other applicable laws, rules, or regulations with respect to the regulation of
the rates charged by grantee.
      2.   Not less than thirty (30) days prior to the effective date of any
change within grantee control in any fee, charge, deposit, term or condition
(or such shorter period as may, upon a showing of good cause, be approved by
the city), the grantee shall: a) submit a revised products and services price
list to the city, and b) provide written notice of the proposed change to each
affected subscriber. The grantee shall not make any change in any rate within
grantee's control unless it has provided the notice required in subsection
3-7-10F of this chapter.
   B.   Charges For Disconnection Or Downgrading Of Service:
      1.   Grantee may impose a charge reasonably related to the cost incurred
for a downgrade of service, except that no such charge may be imposed when:
         a.   A subscriber requests total disconnection from the cable system;
or
         b.   A subscriber requests the downgrade within a thirty (30) day
period following any rate increase relative to the service in question.
      2.   If a subscriber requests disconnection from service prior to the
effective date of an increase in rates, the subscriber shall not be charged the
increased rate if grantee fails to disconnect service prior to the effective
date. Any subscriber who has paid in advance for the next billing period and
who requests disconnection from service shall receive a prorated refund of any
amounts paid in advance.
   C.   Subscriber Complaint Practices:
      1.   Grantee shall maintain a local office within the city limits which
shall be open during normal business hours at least eight (8) hours per weekday
and four (4) hours on either a weekday evening or on Saturdays. Grantee shall
have a publicly listed toll-free telephone number and be so operated as to
receive subscriber complaints and requests on a twenty four (24) hours a day,
seven (7) days a week basis. At least ninety percent (90%) of the time, grantee
shall connect a telephone caller to a live service representative staff member
within thirty (30) seconds, seven (7) days per week, at least during the hours
from eight thirty o'clock (8:30) A.M. to six o'clock (6:00) P.M. If the call
needs to be transferred, transfer time shall not exceed thirty (30) seconds.
Under "normal operating conditions", as that term may be defined by the FCC,
customers will receive a busy signal less than three percent (3%) of the time.
Grantee shall maintain, on a quarterly basis, written or computer generated
records, which may include statistics for both Waterloo and Cedar Falls,
demonstrating, to the satisfaction of the city, its ability to meet the
standards in this subsection. A written log shall be maintained listing all
complaints and their dispositions. A copy of the written log shall be provided,
upon request, for the cable commission's review at said commission's monthly
meetings.
      2.   Within grantee's local office, cable programming available on the
local cable system shall be displayed, allowing subscribers to view a properly
received cable picture.
      3.   Grantee shall render efficient service, make repairs promptly and
interrupt service only for good cause and for the shortest time possible. Such
interruptions, insofar as possible, shall be preceded by notice and shall occur
during periods of minimum use of the cable system. A written log shall, upon
written request, be made available to the city for inspection regarding all
service interruptions subject to section 632 of the Cable Act.
      4.   Grantee shall maintain adequate telephone lines and personnel to
respond in a timely manner to schedule service calls and answer subscriber
complaints or inquiries as required by this subsection.
      5.   Under "normal operating conditions", as that term may be defined by
the FCC, each of the following five (5) standards will be met no less than
ninety five percent (95%) of the time measured on a quarterly basis:
         a.   Standard installations will be performed within seven (7)
business days after an order has been placed.
         b.   Excluding conditions beyond the control of grantee, grantee will
begin working on service interruptions promptly and, in no event later than
twenty four (24) hours after the interruption becomes known (i.e., is reported
to grantee's customer service representative or other appropriate
representative of grantee). Grantee must begin actions to correct other service
problems the next business day after notification of the service problem.
         c.   The appointment window alternatives for installations, service
calls, and other installation activities will be either a specific time or, at
maximum, a four (4) hour time block during "normal business hours" as this term
is defined in subsection C1 of this section. Grantee may schedule service calls
and other installation activities outside of normal business hours for the
express convenience of the customer.
         d.   Grantee may not cancel an appointment with a customer after the
close of business on the day prior to the scheduled appointment.
         e.   If grantee's representative is running late for an appointment
with a customer and will not be able to keep the appointment as scheduled, the
customer will be contacted. The appointment will be rescheduled, as necessary,
at a time which is convenient for the customer.
      6.   Grantee shall respond within two (2) hours to all outage reports
affecting at least one channel for five percent (5%) or more of the cable
system's subscribers.
      7.   Service calls for maintenance or repair shall be performed at no
charge; provided, however, if such maintenance or repair is required as a
result of damage caused by a subscriber then grantee may charge according to
its actual cost for time and material.
      8.   If grantee fails to correct a service problem within twenty four
(24) hours after a subscriber contacts grantee regarding notification of a
service problem, grantee shall, upon request, credit one-thirtieth (1/30) of
the monthly charge to the subscriber for each twenty four (24) hours or
fraction thereof after the first twenty four (24) hours from the time grantee
receives notice that a subscriber is with reduced service. Grantee shall, upon
request, inform the commission regarding the disposition of credits provided by
grantee to subscribers pursuant to this subsection.
   D.   Installation:
      1.   Grantee shall at all times comply with any applicable FCC
regulations regarding installation. At a minimum, however, subscribers who will
request installation, maintenance or repairs shall be given the schedule option
of a four (4) hour block of time in the morning, afternoon or on Saturday
appointments. Persons requesting installation of cable service shall be
afforded a right of rescission between the time cable service is requested and
the time service is actually installed. Pursuant to applicable FCC regulations,
all new installations, reconnects, service upgrades or downgrades shall be
performed within seven (7) business days of the date the subscriber requests an
installation, reconnection, service upgrade or downgrade.
      2.   Grantee shall extend service to those areas not included in the
initial service area when the density of homes meets or exceeds ten (10) homes
within one thousand three hundred twenty (1,320) cable-bearing strand feet (1/
4 cable mile).
      3.   Only those homes which require drops in excess of one hundred fifty
feet (150') shall be required to pay for grantee's materials and time. All
other installations will be billed at an hourly service charge pursuant to FCC
rate regulations.
      4.   Areas below the density of ten (10) homes within one thousand three
hundred twenty (1,320) cable-bearing strand feet (1/4 cable mile) shall have
service available on a cost-sharing basis. The following procedures will apply:
         a.   Upon request for service, grantee will construct the needed line
extension in accordance with the above criteria.
         b.   Construction will be accomplished in a timely manner subsequent
to such a request. Construction completion will be subject to such factors as
type of construction (aerial or under ground), seasonal conditions, and make-
ready factors.
         c.   The cost of the line extension will be prorated based on the
number of subscribers served by the extension. Grantee will absorb the first
one hundred dollars ($100.00) per subscriber of the prorated cost. Subscribers
on a line extension costing less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) per
serviced subscriber would not be subject to the cost sharing obligation.
         d.   Once the line extension is built on the above basis, the standard
installation and monthly rates will apply.
         e.   Provision of service through a line extension shall be
accomplished no later than six (6) months from the date of request.
         f.   Grantee reserves the right to require payment in advance for the
subscriber's portion of any line extension cost.
         g.   Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit the city, the grantee,
or real estate developers from entering into an agreement whereby entire new
housing developments in the city shall be prewired for efficient future
expansion of cable television service.
   E.   Subscriber Information: To the extent required by federal law, grantee
shall provide written subscriber service information: 1) upon request to the
city, 2) to all new subscribers, 3) annually to existing subscribers, and 4) at
any time upon request, which shall include, at a minimum, the following:
      1.   A/B switch notice (to the extent required by state and federal law);
      2.   Privacy notice (to the extent required by state and federal law);
      3.   Products and services offered;
      4.   Prices and options for programming and conditions of subscription to
programming and other services;
      5.   Installation and service maintenance policies;
      6.   Instructions on how to use the cable service;
      7.   Channel positions of programming carried on the system;
      8.   Billing and complaint procedures, including the address and
telephone number of the local franchise authority's cable office;
      9.   Assistance procedures (applicable only for new subscribers); and
      10.   Channel line-up card.
   F.   Subscriber Billing Practices:
      1.   Grantee shall notify new subscribers of its billing practices. The
service information shall describe grantee's billing practices, including, but
not limited to, the following: frequency of billing, time periods upon which
billing is based, advance billing practices, security deposit requirements,
charges for late payments or returned checks, payments required necessary to
avoid account delinquency, availability of credits for service outages,
procedures to be followed to request service deletions including the notice
period a subscriber must give to avoid liability for such services and
procedures to be followed in the event of a billing dispute.
      2.   Grantee shall notify all affected subscribers not less than thirty
(30) days prior to any change in the billing practices and such notice shall
include a description of the changed practice.
      3.   The subscriber bill shall contain the following information
presented in plain language and format:
         a.   Name and address of grantee;
         b.   The period of time over which each chargeable service is billed
including prorated periods as a result of the establishment and termination of
service;
         c.   Each reasonably distinct rate or charge levied;
         d.   The amount of the bill for the current billing period, separate
from any balance;
         e.   Grantee's telephone number and a statement that the subscriber
may call this number with any questions or complaints about the bill; and
         f.   The date on which payment is due from the subscriber.
      4.   The account of a subscriber shall be considered delinquent ten (10)
days following the due date printed on subscriber's bill. Grantee may, at its
discretion, modify or change billing practices based on the reasonable needs of
the grantee.
         a.   Grantee may impose an administrative fee when a subscriber's
account is delinquent.
         b.   Grantee may charge a reasonable administrative fee for late
payment.
      5.   Refund checks will be issued promptly, but no later than either: a)
the subscriber's next billing cycle following resolution of the request, or
thirty (30) days, whichever is earlier; or b) the return of the equipment
supplied by grantee if service is terminated.
      6.   Credits for service will be issued no later than the subscriber's
next billing cycle following the determination that a credit is warranted.
   G.   Parental Control Option: Grantee shall provide parental control devices
to all subscribers who wish to be able to delete any objectionable programming
from the cable service entering the subscriber's home. Grantee shall comply
with all applicable state and federal laws and regulations regarding parental
control devices and/or blocking devices, particularly with respect to any fees
or charges which may be assessed by grantee with respect to such devices. (Ord.
4154, 2-19-1996)
3-7-10: GENERAL FINANCIAL AND INSURANCE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Payment To City:
      1.   Grantee shall pay to the city an annual amount equal to five percent
(5%) of grantee's gross revenues.
      2.   Payments due the city under this provision shall be computed at the
end of each quarter-year. Payments shall be due and payable for each quarter or
a portion of a quarter-year forty five (45) days from the end of the previous
quarter. Each payment shall be accompanied by a brief report showing the basis
for the computation and such other relevant facts as may be reasonably required
by the city.
      3.   Subject to applicable local, state and federal law, no acceptance of
any payment shall be construed as an accord that the amount paid is in fact the
correct amount, nor shall such acceptance of payment be construed as a release
of any claim the city may have for further or additional sums payable under the
provisions of this franchise. All amounts paid shall be subject to audit and
recomputation by the city. Notwithstanding the above, the period of limitation
for recovery of any franchise fee payable hereunder shall be the applicable
statute of limitations under Iowa law.
      4.   With each annual report required pursuant to subsection
3-7-8C of this chapter, grantee shall provide the city with a certification of
the gross revenues for the prior calendar year prepared by an officer of
grantee who is also a certified public accountant. This certification shall be
used to determine the exact amount of payments due the city and to correct any
overpayments or underpayments by grantee.
      5.   In the event any payment is not made on the due date, upon written
notice from city, grantee shall have fifteen (15) days to cure said missing
payment, or interest on the amount due shall accrue from such date at the
annual rate of the prime rate plus one and one-half (11/2) percentage points at
such prime rate as advertised by the Homeland Bank or other similarly situated
financial institution should Homeland Bank no longer be in existence.
   B.   Not Franchise Fees:
      1.   Grantee expressly acknowledges and agrees that except for the
payments expressly required by subsection A of this section, none of the
payments or contributions made by, or the services, equipment, facilities,
support, resources, or other activities to be provided or performed by grantee
at the direction of the city or otherwise pursuant to this franchise, or
otherwise in connection with the construction, operation, maintenance or
upgrade of the cable system (including specifically, but not by way of
limitation, such payments, contributions, services, equipment, facilities,
support, resources or other activities as described in or provided for in this
franchise and the exhibits hereto) are franchise fees chargeable against the
compensation payments to be paid to the city by grantee pursuant to subsection
A of this section.
      2.   Grantee expressly acknowledges and agrees that, as applicable,
except for the compensation payments expressly required by subsection A of this
section, each of the payments or contributions made by, or the services,
equipment, facilities, support, resources or other activities to be provided by
the grantee, are within the exclusions from the term "franchise fee" set forth
in section 622(g)(2) of the Cable Act (47 USC section 542(g)(2)).
      3.   Grantee expressly acknowledges and agrees that the compensation
payments due from the grantee to the city pursuant to subsection A of this
section, shall take precedence over all other payments, contributions,
services, equipment, facilities, support, resources or other activities to be
paid or supplied by the grantee pursuant to this franchise, and the
compensation and other payments to be made pursuant to subsection A of this
section shall not be deemed to be in the nature of a tax, and shall be in
addition to any and all taxes of general applicability or other fees or charges
which the grantee shall be required to pay to the city or to any state or
federal agency or authority, all of which shall be separate and distinct
obligations of the grantee.
      4.   Grantee expressly acknowledges and agrees that the only credits or
deductions from franchise fees will be made pursuant to the exclusions set
forth in section 622(g)(2) of the Cable Act (47 USC section 542(g)(2)).
   C.   Performance Bond:
      1.   Within thirty (30) days of the effective date of the franchise,
grantee shall furnish the city with a performance bond in the amount of ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00). The city expressly agrees to accept a guarantee
in lieu of a bond in a form reasonably acceptable by the city attorney. The
guarantee in lieu of bond is conditioned upon the faithful performance of
grantee of all terms and conditions of this franchise. The rights reserved to
the city with respect to the guarantee or other security are in addition to all
other rights the city may have under the franchise or any other law.
      2.   The rights reserved by the city with respect to the guarantee are in
addition to all other rights the city may have under the franchise or any other
law.
   D.   Security Fund:
      1.   If this franchise is ever sold or transferred pursuant to subsection
3-7-12B of this chapter, the transferee shall provide and maintain through the
remaining term of this franchise, a security fund in the sum of twenty five
thousand dollars ($25,000.00) as common security for the faithful performance
by it of all the provisions of this franchise and compliance with all orders,
permits and directions of the city and the payment by grantee (transferee) of
any claim, liens and taxes due the city which arise by reason of the
construction, operation or maintenance of the cable system.
      2.   Provision shall be made to permit the city to draw from the security
fund. Grantee (transferee) shall not use the security fund for other purposes
and shall not assign, pledge or otherwise use this security fund as security
for any purpose. The city reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to reduce
the required amount of the security fund.
      3.   Within ten (10) days after notice to it that any amount has been
withdrawn by the city from the security fund pursuant to subsection D1 of this
section, grantee (transferee) shall take all necessary steps sufficient to
restore such security fund to the required amount.
      4.   If grantee (transferee) fails to pay to the city any taxes due and
unpaid; or fails to repay to the city, any damages, costs or expenses which the
city shall be compelled to pay by reason of any act or default of the grantee
(transferee) in connection with this franchise; or fails, after ten (10) days'
notice of such failure by the city to comply with any provision of the
franchise which the city reasonably determines can be remedied by an
expenditure of the security, the city may then withdraw such funds from the
security fund.
      5.   The written instrument evidencing the security fund shall be subject
to the approval of the city and shall contain the following endorsement:
It is hereby understood and agreed that this security fund may not be canceled
by the issuer, nor may the intention not to renew be stated by the issuer,
until thirty (30) days after receipt by the city of a written notice stating
such intention to cancel or not to renew.
   E.   Penalties From Security Fund: This subsection shall be applicable only
if the security fund identified in subsection D of this section is triggered by
a sale or transfer. In addition to any other remedies provided herein, civil
penalties for violations of this franchise are set forth below. As a result of
any acts or omissions by grantee (transferee) pursuant to the franchise, the
city may charge to and collect from the security fund the following penalties:
      1.   For failure to complete the construction in accordance with the
franchise unless the city approves the delay, the penalty shall be one hundred
dollars ($100.00) per day for each day, or part thereof, such failure occurs or
continues.
      2.   For repeated and wilful failure to provide data, documents, reports
or information or to cooperate or participate with the city during a renewal
process or the cable system review, the penalty shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00) per day.
      3.   For substantial failure to comply with any material provision of
this franchise, for which a penalty is not otherwise specifically provided, the
penalty shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day.
      4.   For failure to test, analyze and report on the performance of the
cable system following a request by the city, the penalty shall be one hundred
dollars ($100.00) per day.
      5.   For failure of grantee (transferee) to comply with operation or
maintenance standards, the penalty shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) per
day.
      6.   For failure to provide the services grantee (transferee) proposed,
the penalty shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day.
      7.   For failure to comply with all conditions of the city permits to
disturb streets, fix streets, or other terms or conditions of the city, the
penalty shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day.
   F.   Procedure For Imposition Of Penalties:
      1.   This subsection shall be applicable only if the security fund
identified in subsection D of this section is triggered by a sale or transfer.
Whenever the city finds that grantee (transferee) has allegedly violated one or
more terms, conditions or provisions of this franchise, a written notice shall
be given to grantee (transferee). The written notice shall describe in
reasonable detail the alleged violation so as to afford grantee (transferee) an
opportunity to remedy the violation. Grantee (transferee) shall have ten (10)
days subsequent to receipt of the notice in which to correct the violation
before the city may resort to the security fund. Grantee (transferee) may,
within five (5) days of receipt of notice, notify the city that there is a
dispute as to whether a violation or failure has, in fact, occurred. Such
notice by grantee (transferee) to the city shall specify with particularity the
matters disputed by grantee (transferee) and shall stay the running of the
above described time.
         a.   The city shall hear grantee's (transferee's) dispute at a
regularly or specially scheduled meeting. Grantee (transferee) shall have the
right to subpoena and cross-examine witnesses. The city shall determine if
grantee (transferee) has committed a violation and shall make written findings
of fact relative to its determination. If a violation is found, grantee
(transferee) may petition for reconsideration.
         b.   If after hearing the dispute the claim is upheld by the city,
grantee (transferee) shall have ten (10) days from such a determination to
remedy the violation or failure. At any time after that ten (10) day period,
the city may draw against the security fund all penalties due it.
      2.   The time for grantee (transferee) to correct any alleged violation
may be extended by the city if the necessary action to correct the alleged
violation is of such a nature or character to require more than ten (10) days
within which to perform, provided grantee (transferee) commences the corrective
action within the ten (10) day period and thereafter uses reasonable diligence,
as determined by the city, to correct the violation.
      3.   The security fund deposited pursuant to this subsection shall become
the property of the city in the event that the franchise is canceled by reason
of the default of grantee (transferee) or revoked for cause. Grantee
(transferee), however, shall be entitled to the return of such security fund,
or portion thereof, as remains on deposit at the expiration of the term of the
franchise.
      4.   The rights reserved to the city with respect to the security fund
are in addition to all other rights of the city whether reserved by this
franchise or authorized by law, and no action, proceeding or exercise of a
right with respect to such security fund shall affect any other right the city
may have.
      5.   The city shall stay or waive the imposition of any penalties set
forth above upon a finding that any failure or delay is a result of an act of
God or due to circumstances beyond the reasonable control of grantee
(transferee).
   G.   Damages And Defense:
      1.   Grantee agrees to indemnify, save and hold harmless, and defend the
city, its officers, boards and employees, from and against all claims, demands,
costs, or liabilities of every kind and nature whatsoever arising out of the
construction, maintenance and operation of grantee's cable system, including,
but not limited to, any liability for damages and for any liability or claims
resulting from property damage, bodily injury (including accidental death),
copyright infringement, defamation, antitrust, errors and omission, theft, fire
and all other damages which arise out of grantee's construction, operation or
maintenance of the cable system, including, but not limited to, reasonable
attorney fees and costs. Such indemnification shall extend during the entire
term of the franchise. This indemnification shall exclude any damages or causes
of action arising out of the city's unlawful, negligent or ultra vires acts.
      2.   In order for the city to assert its rights to be indemnified,
defended, or held harmless, the city must:
         a.   Promptly notify grantee of any claim or legal proceeding which
gives rise to such right;
         b.   Afford grantee the opportunity to participate in and fully
control any compromise, settlement or other resolution or disposition of such
claim or proceeding; and
         c.   Fully cooperate with the reasonable requests of grantee, at
grantee's expense, in its participation in, and control, compromise, settlement
or resolution or other disposition of such claim or proceeding subject to
subsection G2b of this section.
      3.   In the event the city, in its sole discretion, determines that its
interests cannot be represented in good faith by grantee, the city may, at its
own cost, defend itself with regard to all damages and penalties mentioned in
subsection G1 of this section.
   H.   Liability Insurance:
      1.   Grantee shall maintain, throughout the term of the franchise,
comprehensive general liability insurance, naming the city as an additional
insured in the minimum amounts of:
         a.   One million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death to
any one person;
         b.   Two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death
resulting from any one accident;
         c.   Two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability.
      2.   Within thirty (30) days of acceptance, grantee shall furnish to the
city a certificate evidencing that a satisfactory insurance policy has been
obtained. Said certificate shall demonstrate that the insurance provider holds
a rating by Best of at least "A-". Said certificate shall also require that the
city be notified thirty (30) days prior to any expiration or cancellation.
      3.   All insurance policies maintained pursuant to this subsection may
not be canceled by the surety, nor may the intention not to renew be stated by
the surety until thirty (30) days after receipt by the city, of a written
notice of such intention to cancel or not to renew.
In addition, it shall be the obligation of the grantee promptly to notify the
city of any pending or threatened litigation that would be likely to affect its
insurance coverage.
   I.   City's Right To Revoke: In addition to all other rights which the city
has pursuant to law or equity, the city reserves the right to revoke, terminate
or cancel this franchise, and all rights and privileges pertaining thereto
pursuant to subsection J of this section, in the event that:
      1.   Grantee substantially violates any material provision of this
franchise; or
      2.   Grantee attempts to evade any of the provisions of the franchise and
refuses to cure it; or
      3.   Grantee practices any fraud or deceit upon the city or subscriber;
or
      4.   Grantee becomes insolvent, unable or unwilling to pay its debts, or
is adjudged as bankrupt; or
      5.   Grantee materially misrepresents a material fact in the application
for or negotiation of, or renegotiation of, or renewal of, the franchise.
   J.   Revocation Procedures: In the event that the city determines that
grantee has substantially violated any material provision of the franchise, or
any applicable federal, state or local law regarding the operation of the cable
system, the city may make a written demand on grantee, stating the exact nature
of the alleged violation, requiring that grantee remedy such violation and that
continued violation may be cause for revocation. If the violation, breach,
failure, refusal or neglect is not remedied to the satisfaction of the city
within thirty (30) days following such demand, the city shall determine whether
or not such violation, breach, failure, refusal or neglect by grantee is due to
acts of God or other causes which result from circumstances beyond grantee's
control.
      1.   A public hearing shall be held and grantee shall be provided with an
opportunity to be heard upon fourteen (14) days' written notice to grantee of
the time and the place of the hearing. The causes for pending revocation and
the reasons alleged to constitute such cause shall be recited in the notice.
Said notice shall affirmatively recite the causes that need to be shown by the
city to support a revocation.
      2.   If notice is given and, at grantee's option, after a full public
proceeding is held, the city determines there is a violation, breach, failure,
refusal or neglect by grantee, the city shall direct grantee to correct or
remedy the same within such reasonable additional time, in such manner and upon
such reasonable terms and conditions as city may direct.
      3.   If, after a public hearing it is determined that grantee's
performance of any of the terms, conditions, obligations or requirements of
franchise was prevented or impaired due to any cause beyond its reasonable
control or not reasonably foreseeable, such inability to perform shall be
deemed to be excused and no penalties or sanctions shall be imposed as a result
thereof, provided grantee has notified city in writing within thirty (30) days
of its discovery of the occurrence of such an event. Such causes beyond
grantee's reasonable control or not reasonably foreseeable shall include, but
shall not be limited to, acts of God, civil emergencies and labor strikes.
      4.   If, after notice is given and, at grantee's option, a full public
proceeding is held, the city determines there was a substantial violation,
breach, failure, refusal or neglect, then the city may declare, by resolution,
the franchise revoked and canceled and of no further force and effect unless
there is compliance within such period as city may fix, such period not to be
less than thirty (30) days, provided no opportunity for compliance need be
granted for fraud, misrepresentation, or violation of privacy rights.
      5.   The issue of revocation shall automatically be placed upon the city
council agenda at the expiration of the time set by it for compliance. The city
then may terminate franchise forthwith upon finding that grantee has failed to
achieve compliance or may further extend the period, in its discretion.
      6.   If the city, after notice is given and, at grantee's option, a full
public proceeding is held and appeal is exhausted, declares the franchise
breached, the parties may pursue their remedies pursuant to franchise or any
other remedy, legal or equitable. Any decision by the city shall be subject to
a de novo review by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   K.   Enforcement Of Franchise Provisions: In addition to any other remedies
provided herein, the city may require grantee to appear before the city, or any
designated entity, to address any alleged violations of the terms and
provisions of this franchise. The city shall provide grantee fourteen (14)
days' advanced written notice of such a meeting, which notice shall include a
detailed description of any alleged violation. Grantee shall be prepared to
explain the circumstances regarding such alleged violation, including any
actions taken by grantee to cure such alleged violations or other relevant
facts. If the city is dissatisfied with the responses received by grantee, it
may exercise any other rights available to it under the terms and provisions of
this franchise or applicable local, state and federal law. (Ord. 4154, 2-19-
1996)
3-7-11: FORECLOSURE, RECEIVERSHIP OR ABANDONMENT:
   A.   Foreclosure: Upon the foreclosure or other judicial sale of the cable
system, grantee shall notify the city of such fact and such notification shall
be treated as a notification that a change in control of grantee has taken
place, and the provisions of this franchise governing the consent to transfer
or change in ownership shall apply without regard to how such transfer or
change in ownership occurred.
   B.   Receivership: The city shall have the right to cancel this franchise
subject to any applicable provisions of state law, including the bankruptcy
act, one hundred twenty (120) days after the appointment of a receiver or
trustee to take over and conduct the business of grantee, whether in
receivership, reorganization, bankruptcy or other action or proceeding, unless
such receivership or trusteeship shall have been vacated prior to the
expiration of said one hundred twenty (120) days, or unless:
      1.   Within one hundred twenty (120) days after his election or
appointment, such receiver or trustee shall have fully complied with all the
provisions of this franchise and remedied all defaults thereunder; and
      2.   Such receiver or trustee, within said one hundred twenty (120) days,
shall have executed an agreement, duly approved by the court having
jurisdiction in the premises, whereby such receiver or trustee assumes and
agrees to be bound by each and every provision of this franchise.
   C.   Abandonment: Grantee may not abandon any aerial portion of the cable
system thereof without having first given three (3) months' written notice to
the city. Grantee may not abandon any aerial portion of the cable system
without compensating the city for damages, if any, resulting from the
abandonment. (Ord. 4154, 2-19-1996)
3-7-12: REMOVAL, TRANSFER AND PURCHASE:
   A.   Removal After Revocation Or Expiration:
      1.   Subject to applicable federal, state and local law, at the
expiration of the term for which the franchise is granted, and any removal
thereof or upon its lawful revocation, as provided for, the city shall have the
right to require grantee to remove, at grantee's expense, but in all cases
grantee shall have the right to abandon underground cable, all or any portion
of the cable system from all streets and public property within the city. In so
removing the cable system, grantee shall refill and compact at its own expense,
any excavation that shall be made and shall leave all streets, public property
and private property in as good a condition as that prevailing prior to
grantee's removal of the cable system, and without affecting, altering or
disturbing in any way electric, telephone or utility, cable wires or
attachments. The city, or its delegation, shall have the right to inspect and
approve the condition of such streets and public property after removal. The
security fund (if applicable), insurance, indemnity and penalty provision of
the franchise shall remain in full force and effect during the entire term of
removal.
      2.   Subject to applicable local, state and federal law, if, in the sole
discretion of the city, grantee has failed to commence removal of the cable
system, or such part thereof as was designated within thirty (30) days after
written notice of the city's demand for removal is given, or if grantee has
failed to complete such removal within one year after written notice of the
city's demand for removal is given, the city shall have the right to exercise
one of the following options:
         a.   Declare all right, title and interest to the cable system to be
in the city or its delegator with all rights of ownership including, but not
limited to, the right to operate the cable system or transfer the cable system
to another for operation by it; or
         b.   Declare the cable system abandoned and cause the cable system, or
such part thereof as the city shall designate, to be removed at no cost to the
city. The cost of said removal shall be recoverable from the security fund,
indemnity and penalty section provided for in the franchise, or from grantee
directly.
   B.   Sale Or Transfer Of Franchise:
      1.   This franchise shall not be sold, assigned or transferred, either in
whole or in part, or leased or sublet in any manner, nor shall title thereto,
either legal or equitable, or any right, interest or property therein, pass to
or vest in any person, except an entity controlling, controlled by or under
common control with grantee, without full compliance with the procedures set
forth in this subsection and applicable provisions of the cable communications
policy act of 1984, as amended.
      2.   The provisions of this subsection shall apply to the sale or
transfer of all or a majority of grantee's assets, merger, consolidation or
sale or transfer of stock in grantee so as to create a new controlling
interest. The term "controlling interest", as used herein, is not limited to
majority stock ownership but includes actual working control in whatever manner
exercised.
         a.   The parties to the sale or transfer shall make a written request
to the city for its approval of a sale or transfer. The written request shall
contain all information required by the city or by applicable state and federal
laws and regulations. Upon receipt of a written request, the city shall make a
determination pursuant to subsection C of this section as to the exercise of
its first right of refusal to purchase the system.
         b.   The city shall reply in writing within thirty (30) days of the
request and shall indicate approval of the request or its determination that a
public hearing is necessary to analyze the legal, technical and financial
ability of the proposed transferee and whether a potential adverse effect may
result on grantee's subscribers.
         c.   The city shall issue a decision in writing either approving or
denying the sale or transfer request within one hundred twenty (120) days
following receipt of the written request from the parties to the sale or
transfer, which written request shall contain all necessary information on
which the city shall base its determination.
      3.   In reviewing a request for sale or transfer pursuant to subsection
B1 of this section, the city may inquire into the legal, technical and
financial qualifications of the prospective controlling party, and grantee
shall assist the city in so inquiring. The city may condition said transfer
upon such terms and conditions as it deems reasonably appropriate; provided,
however, the city shall not unreasonably withhold its approval. In no event
shall a transfer or assignment of ownership or control of the franchise be
approved without the perspective controlling party becoming a signatory to this
franchise.
      4.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this
subsection B, no such consent shall be required for a transfer in trust, by
mortgage, or by hypothecation, or by assignment of any rights, title or
interest of grantee in the franchise or cable system, in order to secure
indebtedness.
   C.   Purchase By City Upon Expiration Or Revocation:
      1.   Subject to applicable local, state and federal law, at the
expiration of this franchise, the city may purchase the cable system pursuant
to section 627 of the cable act (47 USC 541).
      2.   Upon the revocation of this franchise, the city may, in lawful
manner and upon the payment of an equitable price, lawfully purchase the cable
system. (Ord. 4154, 2-19-1996)
3-7-13: RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS PROTECTED:
   A.   Discriminatory Practices Prohibited: Grantee shall not deny service,
deny access or otherwise discriminate against subscribers, programmers or
general citizens on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin,
gender, sexual orientation, gender identity or age. Grantee shall comply at all
times with all other applicable federal, state and city laws relating to
nondiscrimination. (Ord. 4891, 11-13-2007)
   B.   Subscriber Privacy: Grantee shall, at all times, comply with all
applicable local, state and federal subscriber privacy provisions, including,
but not limited to, section 631 of the cable act (47 USC 551). (Ord. 4154, 2-
19-1996)
3-7-14: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Franchise Renewal: This franchise may be renewed in accordance with
applicable state and federal law.
   B.   Work Performed By Others:
      1.   The provisions of this franchise shall remain the responsibility of
grantee, and grantee shall be responsible for and hold the city harmless for
any claims or liability arising out of work performed by persons authorized by
grantee.
      2.   All applicable provisions of this franchise shall apply to any
subcontractor or authorized persons performing any work or services pursuant to
the provisions of this franchise.
   C.   Compliance With Federal, State And Local Laws:
      1.   If any federal or state law or regulation requires or permits
grantee to perform any service or act or shall prohibit grantee from performing
any service or act which may be in conflict with the terms of this franchise,
then as soon as possible following knowledge thereof, grantee shall notify the
city of the point of conflict believed to exist between such law or regulation.
      2.   If any term, condition or provision of this franchise or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance shall, to any extent, be held
to be invalid or unenforceable, the remainder hereof and the application of
such term, condition or provision to persons or circumstances other than those
as to whom it shall be held invalid or unenforceable shall not be affected
thereby, and this franchise and all the terms, provisions and conditions hereof
shall, in all other respects, continue to be effective and to be complied with.
In the event that such law, rule or regulation is subsequently repealed,
rescinded, amended or otherwise changed so that the provision which had been
held invalid or modified is no longer in conflict with the law, rules and
regulations then in effect, said provision shall thereupon return to full force
and effect and shall thereafter be binding on grantee and the city.
      3.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, in the event that any
court, agency, commission, legislative body or other authority of competent
jurisdiction: a) declares subsection
3-7-6F or G or
3-7-10A of this chapter invalid, in whole or in part; or b) requires grantee
either to: 1) perform any act which is inconsistent with any of the said
subsections, or 2) cease performing any act required by said subsections,
grantee shall promptly notify the city. Such notice shall state whether grantee
intends to exercise its rights pursuant to such declaration or requirement.
   D.   Nonenforcement By City: Subject to applicable federal, state and local
laws, grantee shall not be relieved of its obligation to comply with any of the
provisions of this franchise by reason of any failure of the city or to enforce
prompt compliance.
   E.   Administration Of Franchise:
      1.   Subject to applicable local, state and federal law, the city shall
have continuing regulatory jurisdiction and supervision over the cable system
and the grantee's operation under the franchise. The city may issue such
reasonable rules and regulations concerning the construction, operation and
maintenance of the cable system as are consistent with the provisions of the
franchise.
      2.   Grantee shall construct, operate and maintain the cable system
subject to the city council who has jurisdiction in such matters and in strict
compliance with all laws, ordinances, departmental rules and regulations
affecting the cable system and not inconsistent with the provisions of this
franchise.
      3.   The cable system and all parts thereof shall be subject to the right
of periodic inspection by the city provided that such inspection shall not
interfere with the operation of the cable system and such inspections take
place during normal business hours upon reasonable notice to grantee.
   F.   Miscellaneous Violations:
      1.   Subject to applicable federal, state and local law, from and after
the acceptance of the franchise, it shall be unlawful for any person to
establish, operate or to carry on the business of distributing to any persons
in the city any television signals or radio signals by means of a cable system
using public rights of way unless a franchise therefor has first been obtained
pursuant to the provisions of an ordinance, and unless such franchise is in
full force and effect.
      2.   Subject to applicable federal, state and local law, from and after
the acceptance of the franchise, it shall be unlawful for any person to
construct, install or maintain within any street in the city, or within any
other public property of the city, or within any privately owned area within
the city which has not yet become a public street but is designated or
delineated as a proposed public street on any tentative subdivision map
approved by the city, or the city's official map or the city's major
thoroughfare plan, any equipment or facilities for distributing any television
signals or radio signals through a cable system, unless a franchise authorizing
such use of such street or property or areas has first been obtained.
   G.   Emergency Use: In the case of any emergency or disaster, grantee shall,
upon request of the city, make available its cable system and related
facilities to the city for emergency use during the emergency or disaster
period. The city shall hold grantee, its agents, employees, officers and
assignees hereunder, harmless from any claims arising out of the emergency use
of its facilities by the city, including, but not limited to, reasonable
attorney fees and costs.
   H.   Captions: The paragraph captions and headings in this franchise are for
convenience and reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the
meaning or interpretation of this franchise.
   I.   Calculation Of Time: Where the performance or doing of any act, duty,
matter, payment or thing is required hereunder and the period of time or
duration for the performance or doing thereof is prescribed and fixed herein,
the time shall be computed so as to exclude the first and include the last day
of the prescribed or fixed period or duration of time. When the last day of the
period falls on Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be omitted
from the computation. (Ord. 4154, 2-19-1996)
3-7-15: EFFECTIVE DATE; PUBLICATION AND TIME OF ACCEPTANCE:
   A.   Publication; Effective Date: This chapter shall be signed by the mayor
or acting mayor and attested by the city clerk. This chapter shall be published
in accordance with the requirements of city and state law and shall take effect
at that time.
   B.   Time Of Acceptance; Incorporation Of Proposal; Exhibits:
      1.   Grantee shall have sixty (60) days from the date of adoption of a
franchise to accept a franchise. Such acceptance by grantee shall be deemed the
grant of a franchise for all purposes. In the event acceptance does not take
place within sixty (60) days or such other time as the city might allow, a
franchise shall be null and void.
      2.   Upon acceptance of a franchise, grantee shall be bound by all the
terms and conditions contained therein. Grantee shall provide all services and
offerings specifically set forth therein to provide cable television services
within the city.
      3.   With its acceptance, grantee shall also deliver to the city
documentation evidencing its power and authority to accept the franchise. Such
documents shall also describe the officers authorized to accept on behalf of
grantee.
      4.   With its acceptance, grantee shall also deliver any and all required
certificates, resolutions, and other documentation required by this chapter.
(Ord. 4154, 2-19-1996)
CHAPTER 8
SHARED MOBILITY DEVICE LICENSE
SECTION:
3-8-1: Definitions
3-8-2: Policy Statement And Purpose
3-8-3: Scope
3-8-4: Operating Area
3-8-5: Application Procedure, Fee, And Duration Of License
3-8-6: Issuance Of License
3-8-7: Operating Regulations
3-8-8: Rider Regulations
3-8-9: Rider Prohibited Acts
3-8-10: Data Sharing
3-8-11: Indemnification
3-8-12: Insurance
3-8-13: Appeal
3-8-14: Denial, Suspension, Or Revocation Of License
3-8-15: Penalty
3-8-16: Severability
3-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, certain terms and words are hereby defined:
 
ELECTRIC-ASSIST BICYCLES: Electric-assist bicycles as defined by section
                          6-2-1.
                          Any individual or business engaged in shared mobility
                          device business regardless of whether the operator
OPERATOR:                 has received a license. An operator shall include
                          employees, managers, officers, principals, directors,
                          owners, contractors, representatives, or agents.
RIDER:                    Any individual that pays to operate a shared mobility
                          device.
                          A device weighing less than one hundred fifty (150)
                          pounds, which has (i) has handlebars and an electric
                          motor, (ii) is solely powered by the electric motor
SHARED ELECTRIC SCOOTER:  and/or human power, and (iii) has a maximum speed of
                          no more than twenty (20) miles per hour on a paved
                          level surface when powered solely by the electric
                          motor.
                          Shall mean any self-service vehicle made available by
                          an individual or business for a fee, for shared use
                          to individuals on a temporary basis that is
                          displayed, offered, or placed for use on any public
                          property and returned at the end of use on any public
                          property. Shared mobility devices may include, but
                          are not limited to, shared electric foot scooters. A
                          shared mobility device shall not include a vehicle in
SHARED MOBILITY DEVICE:   service for a transportation network company or a
                          taxicab as regulated by article 3-5A of this code, a
                          shared mobility device rented from and returned to a
                          brick and mortar business. Shared mobility devices
                          may include, but are not limited to, shared electric
                          scooters and electric bicycles, as defined by
                          subsection
                          6-2-1A. (Ord. 5601, 6-1-2021; amd. Ord. 5608, 7-19-
                          2021)
 
3-8-2: POLICY STATEMENT AND PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish rules and regulations governing
shared mobility device operators and riders within the city of Waterloo (the
"City") and to ensure that such mobility sharing systems are consistent with
the safety and well-being of bicyclists, pedestrians, and other riders of the
public rights-of-way. (Ord. 5601, 6-1-2021; amd. Ord. 5608, 7-19-2021)
3-8-3: SCOPE:
This chapter applies to any proposed deployment of a shared mobility device
within the city's jurisdictional boundaries. (Ord. 5601, 6-1-2021; amd. Ord.
5608, 7-19-2021)
3-8-4: OPERATING AREA:
The city may, by resolution, establish boundaries for operating shared mobility
devices and set maximum speed limits within those boundaries. Operators shall
be required to conduct business within this operating area. Licensee shall not
operate within boundaries established by a special event or events held on city
property. Shared mobility devices operating within the operating area shall be
limited to a maximum speed of fifteen (15) miles per hour. It is unlawful to
let, lease, or rent any shared mobility device in the operating area which is
not equipped with a device or governor limiting the maximum speed of fifteen
(15) miles per hour. (Ord. 5601, 6-1-2021; amd. Ord. 5608, 7-19-2021; Ord.
5609, 8-2-2021)
3-8-5: APPLICATION PROCEDURE, FEE, AND DURATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Any entity or individual seeking to operate a shared mobility device
program within the city shall first obtain a shared mobility device license
("License") from the city conditioned on compliance with the provisions of this
chapter and any other conditions (including insurance, indemnity, and
performance bond) established by the city clerk. No entity shall operate a
shared mobility device program within the city except pursuant to such license
and provisions (each such operator, a "Licensee").
   B.   Contents Of Application: Applicants for a license under this chapter
shall complete and submit to the city clerk an application, fee, and supporting
documentation, all of which shall include but not be limited to the following
information:
      1.   The name, address, and phone number of the applicant, along with at
least one form of identification that includes a photograph of the applicant.
The name, address and phone number of the business. The name and contact
information of the local manager if the local manager is not the applicant.
      2.   The type and number of shared mobile devices to be used.
      3.   A certificate of insurance and indemnification agreement as required
in sections
3-8-11 and
3-8-12 of this chapter.
      4.   Application fee as listed in subsection E of this section.
   C.   Filing: Applications shall be filed with the city clerk's office. No
application shall be accepted for filing and processing unless it conforms to
the requirements of this chapter. This includes a complete and true
application, all of the required materials and information prescribed, and the
appropriate application fee.
   D.   Timely Filing: An application must be filed at the office of the city
clerk not less than fifteen (15) business days prior to the first day of
operation for a new license or the expiration date of a shared mobile device
license. The city reserves the right to reject any application not filed in a
timely manner.
   E.   Fees: The license shall last two years, have an initial annual cost of
five hundred dollars ($500.00), and have a renewal cost of two hundred dollars
($200.00) per year thereafter. Application fees are due at the time of filing
the application and are not refundable. Once the license is issued, the
licensee shall be required to pay to the city five cents ($0.05) per ride
purchased by a rider on a quarterly basis. All outstanding fees owed to the
city must be paid in order to receive and maintain a license.
   F.   Change In Application Information: Upon any change in any of the
information required to be submitted as part of the application, the licensee
shall, within five (5) business days of such change, notify the city clerk in
writing and provide the updated information. (Ord. 5601, 6-1-2021; amd. Ord.
5608, 7-19-2021)
3-8-6: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Issuance And Licensee Limits: If the city clerk finds the application
is complete and made in conformance with section
3-8-4 of this chapter, and upon investigation of the facts stated therein are
correct, the licensee shall be approved by the city council and a license shall
be issued. All outstanding fees owed to the city shall be paid prior to issuing
the license. The city clerk shall issue a license to no more than two (2)
shared mobility device licenses.
   B.   Term Of License: An initial license shall be issued for a period of two
(2) years. Following the initial license period, a new license may be issued
for a period of one year. (Ord. 5601, 6-1-2021; amd. Ord. 5608, 7-19-2021)
3-8-7: OPERATING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided herein, city shall regulate the operation
of shared mobility devices in a manner no more restrictive than its regulation
of shared bicycles. Licensees shall require all riders certify they are age
eighteen (18) or older by providing a state issued driver’s license or state
issued identification card to the licensee’s mobile app customer interface.
Hours of operation shall be four o’clock (4:00) A.M. to midnight.
   B.   Licensees shall provide easily visible contact information, including
toll-free phone number and/or e-mail address on each shared mobility device for
city employees and/or members of the public to make relocation requests or to
report other issues with devices.
   C.   Fleet Size/Caps: Licensees shall have a fleet size of up to one hundred
fifty (150). The city council may allow licensees to increase their fleet size
on a weekly/monthly basis in the event that licensees provide data that
supports increases in certain areas to meet rider demand for service.
   D.   Licensees shall maintain twenty four (24) hour customer service for
customers to report safety concerns, complaints, or to ask questions. Licensees
shall maintain a multilingual website, call center, and mobile app customer
interface that is available twenty four (24) hours a day, seven (7) days a
week. The aforementioned shall be compliant with the Americans with
Disabilities Act.
   E.   In the event a safety or maintenance issue is reported for a specific
device, that shared mobility device shall be made unavailable to riders and
shall be removed within the time frames provided herein. Any inoperable or
unsafe device shall be repaired before it is put back into service.
   F.   Within licensees' zone of operation, licensees shall respond to reports
of incorrectly parked shared mobility devices, shared mobility devices
continuously parked in one location for more than seventy two (72) hours, or
unsafe/inoperable shared mobility devices by relocating, re-parking, or
removing the shared mobility devices, as appropriate, within twelve (12) hours
of receiving notice, except that licensees shall respond within four (4) hours
of receiving notice in emergency situations.
   G.   In the event a licensee does not timely respond, and the condition of
the shared mobility device cannot be easily remedied, such shared mobility
devices may be removed by city crews with notice to licensee and taken to a
city facility for storage at the expense of the licensee, not to exceed twenty
dollars ($20.00) per shared mobility device.
   H.   Licensees shall provide notice to all riders that:
      1.   Shared mobility devices are to be ridden on streets, and where
available, in bike lanes and multi-use recreational trails;
      2.   Shared mobility devices are to stay to the right of street lanes and
to offer the right-of-way to bicycles on bike lanes and multi-use recreational
trails;
      3.   Helmets are encouraged for all riders;
      4.   Riding responsibly is encouraged, and licensee will notify riders if
repeated irresponsible riding is reported and recorded with identifying rider
information.
   I.   Licensees shall provide education to shared mobility device riders on
the city's existing rules and regulations, safe and courteous riding, and
proper parking.
   J.   Licensees shall ensure service meets rider demand, and shall not be
required to deploy in areas or zones where average ridership is below one and
one-half (1.5) rides/day.
   K.   Licensee shall take reasonable steps to ensure that all riders
understand the requirements of ADA accessibility and the importance of leaving
ADA paths of travel clear and accessible.
   L.   A licensee shall only stage its shared mobility devices in areas
approved by the city. If a licensee desires to stage shared mobility devices in
areas other than the public right-of-way, the licensee must obtain the right to
do so from the appropriate city department, property owner, or public agency.
(Ord. 5601, 6-1-2021; amd. Ord. 5608, 7-19-2021; Ord. 5609, 8-2-2021)
3-8-8: RIDER REGULATIONS:
   A.   Shared mobility devices shall only be ridden on streets, and where
available, in bike lanes and multi-use recreational trails.
   B.   Shared mobility devices shall stay to the right of street lanes and to
offer the right of way to bicycles in bike lanes and on multi-use recreational
trails. Riders of shared mobility devices shall be eighteen (18) years of age
or older.
   C.   Riders of shared mobility devices shall park devices upright on hard
surfaces in the furniture zone of the sidewalk, beside a bicycle rack or in
another area specifically designated for bicycle parking, or on the street next
to an unmarked curb. A furniture zone is defined as the outer four foot (4')
section of a sidewalk along the curb.
   D.   Riders may park shared mobility devices in on-street parking spaces in
the following circumstances:
      1.   When marked parking spaces are officially designated stations for
such devices;
      2.   Where the furniture zone is less than three feet (3') wide;
      3.   Where there is no furniture zone;
      4.   In neighborhoods with rolled curbs, or with inadequate sidewalk
space;
      5.   In marked parking spaces designated for motorcycles.
   E.   Riders may park shared mobility devices on blocks without sidewalks
only if the travel lane(s) and six foot (6') pedestrian clear zone are not
impeded.
   F.   Riders may park shared mobility devices on blocks without sidewalks
only if the travel lane(s) and six foot (6') pedestrian clear zone are not
impeded. (Ord. 5601, 6-1-2021; amd. Ord. 5608, 7-19-2021; Ord. 5609, 8-2-2021)
3-8-9: RIDER PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Shared mobility devices shall not be ridden on sidewalks.
   B.   Riders shall not park shared mobility devices in such a manner as to
block the pedestrian clear zone area of the sidewalk; ADA paths of travel
including accessible ramps, any fire hydrant, call box, or other emergency
facility; bus bench; or utility pole or box.
   C.   Riders shall not park shared mobility devices in such a manner as to
impede or interfere with the reasonable use of any commercial window display,
outdoor seating area, or access to or from any building entrance/exit doorway.
   D.   Riders shall not park shared mobility devices in such a manner as to
impede or interfere with the reasonable use of any bicycle rack.
   E.   Riders shall not park shared mobility devices in the landscape/
furniture zone directly adjacent to or within the following areas, such that
access is impeded:
      1.   Transit zones, including bus stops, shelters, passenger waiting
areas and bus layover and staging zones, except at existing bicycle racks;
      2.   Loading zones;
      3.   Disabled parking zone;
      4.   Street furniture that requires pedestrian access (e.g., benches,
parking pay stations, bus shelters, transit information signs, etc.);
      5.   Curb ramps;
      6.   Entryways; and
      7.   Driveways. (Ord. 5601, 6-1-2021; amd. Ord. 5608, 7-19-2021)
3-8-10: DATA SHARING:
   A.   City may require licensees to provide anonymized fleet and ride
activity data for all trips starting or ending within the jurisdiction of city
on any vehicle of licensee or of any person or company controlled by,
controlling, or under common control with licensee, provided that, to ensure
individual privacy:
      1.   Such data is provided via an application programming interface,
subject to Licensee's license agreement for such interface, in compliance with
a national data format specification such as the mobility data specification;
      2.   Such data shall be safely and securely stored by city which shall
implement administrative, physical, and technical safeguards to protect,
secure, and, where appropriate, encrypt or limit access to the data;
      3.   Such data shall be subject to publicly-available aggregation,
retention, and privacy policies of licensee and city;
      4.   Any such data provided shall be treated as trade secret and
proprietary business information, and shall be exempt from public records
requests and requests by third parties except with the consent of licensee; and
      5.   Such data shall not be shared with law enforcement except pursuant
to valid legal process.
   B.   City shall require licensee to provide such data to validate the
quarterly completed ride fee payment listed in subsection
3-8-5E. (Ord. 5601, 6-1-2021; amd. Ord. 5608, 7-19-2021)
3-8-11: INDEMNIFICATION:
Apart from and separate from any insurance required under this chapter, the
licensee and its company agree to indemnify, defend and hold harmless city (and
its officials, employees, officers, agents, contractors, insurers, or assigns)
from and against all actions, damages or claims, including reasonable
attorneys' fees, (collectively, "Claims") brought against city for personal or
bodily injury or death to any person, or damage or destruction of any property,
arising out of or resulting from performance or breach regarding any activity
related to a shared mobility device license provided that such claim, damage,
loss, or expense is: (1) attributable to personal injury, bodily injury,
sickness, death, or destruction of property, including the loss of use
resulting therefrom, or breach of contract, and (2) not caused by the negligent
act or omission or willful misconduct of the city or its elected and appointed
officials and employees acting within the scope of their employment. City's
right to indemnification shall be contingent on city notifying company promptly
following receipt or notice of any claims; company shall have sole control of
company's defense, including the ability to choose counsel; and city shall not
consent to the entry of a judgment or enter into any settlement without the
prior written consent of company. (Ord. 5601, 6-1-2021; amd. Ord. 5608, 7-19-
2021)
3-8-12: INSURANCE:
Licensees shall provide city with proof of insurance coverage exclusively for
the operation of shared mobility devices including: (a) commercial general
liability insurance coverage with a limit of no less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) each occurrence and two million dollars ($2,000,000.00)
aggregate; (b) automobile insurance coverage with a limit of no less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) each occurrence and one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) aggregate; and (c) where licensee employs persons within the
city, workers' compensation coverage of no less than the statutory requirement.
Licensees' insurance shall also name city as an additional insured on a primary
and non-contributory basis, including a waiver of subrogation in favor of city.
A certificate of insurance shall be delivered to the city clerk prior to the
issuance of a license. Licensees are required to maintain insurance coverage
throughout the duration of the license. (Ord. 5601, 6-1-2021; amd. Ord. 5608,
7-19-2021)
3-8-13: APPEAL:
A person may appeal a decision of the city clerk to deny an application by
filing a written appeal to the office of the city clerk within fourteen (14)
days of the date of the decision. An administrative fee of fifty dollars
($50.00) shall be paid at the time the appeal is filed. Failure to file the
appeal and pay the administrative fee shall constitute a waiver of the right to
a hearing, and the decision shall thereupon become final. If the written appeal
and administrative fee are filed in conformance with this section, a hearing
shall be scheduled and conducted pursuant to section
3-8-14. (Ord. 5601, 6-1-2021; amd. Ord. 5608, 7-19-2021)
3-8-14: DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Any application filed or license issued under the provisions of this
chapter may be denied, suspended, or revoked by the city clerk as follows:
      1.   Violation of any provision of this chapter or any other section of
this code or has otherwise conducted business in a negligent and or an unlawful
manner.
      2.   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements made in securing a
license.
      3.   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements made in the course of
the applicant's business.
      4.   Failure to cooperate and with all reasonable requests of any
official of the city.
      5.   Failure of any licensee to maintain the appropriate insurance, or
county, state, and federal licenses and permits, during the term of the
license.
   B.   Upon receipt of information alleging grounds exist to suspend or revoke
a shared mobility device license, or a written appeal and administrative fee
have been received at the office of the city clerk, the city clerk shall cause
a notice to be sent by ordinary mail to the applicant or licensee at the
address noted in the application. Said notice shall state that a hearing has
been set before the city council not less than thirty (30) days from the date
of the notice. The notice shall include the reason and grounds for the hearing,
the date and time of the hearing, and the place where the hearing will be
conducted. The licensee shall have thirty (30) days from the date of the notice
to remedy such grounds for the denial, suspension, or revocation.
   C.   Upon such hearing, if the city council determines that one or more of
such grounds do exist, it may suspend or revoke an existing license or uphold a
decision to deny a license. A suspension shall constitute a minimum period of
fourteen (14) calendar days from the date of the hearing, during which period
the licensee may not conduct any business. In the event such license is
revoked, no shared mobile device license shall be issued to the licensee for a
period of one calendar year from the date of the revocation. The licensee shall
have thirty (30) days to remove the licensee's fleet of shared mobility devices
from the city's right-of-way. (Ord. 5601, 6-1-2021; amd. Ord. 5608, 7-19-2021)
3-8-15: PENALTY:
   A.   Licensee: Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of a municipal infraction and fined as provided in section
1-3-2 of this code. The provisions of this chapter relating to section
3-8-6 shall apply to all shared mobile device operators whether or not they are
a licensed mobile food business.
   B.   Riders: Shared mobility device riders who violate sections
3-8-8 or
3-8-9 of this chapter or any section of title 6, chapter 2, Bicycles Or
Scooters, shall be guilty of a municipal infraction and fined as provided in
section
1-3-2 of this code. The parent or guardian of any person under the age of
eighteen (18) who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
responsible to pay the fines. A violation of any provision of this chapter by a
person under the age of eighteen (18) shall not affect any civil right or
liability nor shall such violation be considered a criminal offense. (Ord.
5601, 6-1-2021; amd. Ord. 5608, 7-19-2021)
3-8-16: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, provision or part of this chapter shall be adjudged invalid or
unconstitutional, such adjudication shall not affect the validity of this
chapter as a whole or any section, provision or part thereof not adjudged
invalid or unconstitutional. (Ord. 5601, 6-1-2021; amd. Ord. 5608, 7-19-2021)
CHAPTER 9
BILLPOSTERS
SECTION:
3-9-1: License Required; Fee
3-9-2: Exemptions From Fee
3-9-3: Rules And Regulations
3-9-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
No person, as owner, agent, servant or employee, shall post or distribute any
advertising matter of any kind within the limits of the city, without first
making application for a license therefor at the office of the city clerk, and
paying a license fee in the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) per day for each person
employed in such work, or the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) per year for a
yearly distributor's license. The yearly distributor's license shall entitle
the licensee to employ as many assistants as may be required, which assistants
shall be furnished by the yearly licensee with a suitable badge or emblem
showing in whose employ the assistants may be, and the assistants shall not
need any further license except such authority. The licenses provided for in
this section shall be issued in like form and manner as other city licenses.
(Rev. Ord. 1540, Comp. 1941, p. L-4; amd. Ord. 3325, 2-13-1984)
3-9-2: EXEMPTIONS FROM FEE:
A duly organized and chartered nonprofit corporation, or a bona fide nonprofit
organization, shall be required to obtain a license to post or distribute
advertising matter, but all fees for the license shall be waived as to such
corporations or organizations. (Rev. Ord. 1540, Comp. 1941, p. L-4)
3-9-3: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Posting On Utilities Facilities And Structures: No person shall paste,
nail, tack or fasten in any way, any bill or other thing for the purpose of
advertising any entertainment, or property for sale, or any other kind of
advertising matter, upon any telegraph, telephone, or electric light pole or
other pole or lamppost, fence, structure or building, erected upon or along any
of the streets or alleys of the city.
   B.   Placing Advertisements In Or On Vehicles: No advertising bills,
posters, printed or illustrated matter, samples, or advertising matter of any
kind or character shall be placed in or on any motor vehicle or other vehicle
parked upon the public streets, nor shall any form of advertising matter be
attached to a vehicle so parked without the consent of the owner. This
subsection is not intended to restrict painted or magnetic signs on the sides
of vehicles which are used as a means of transportation for business purposes.
   C.   Manner Of Distribution; Littering: Distribution of advertising material
shall be made in such a manner as not to create a nuisance, and no licensed
billposter or distributor, or any other person, shall scatter or deliver any
advertising bills or matter upon the streets or alleys of the city, nor hand
the bills to persons passing along the streets, nor throw the bills into yards
of private buildings, or along halls or public buildings or elsewhere, within
the city.
   D.   Persons Who May Distribute Bills Within Their Businesses; Prohibited
Distributions: Retailers or local societies or theaters may hand bills and
advertisements to persons within their place of business, but shall refrain
from scattering them along the public walks, gutters, streets or alleys of the
city. (Rev. Ord. 1540, Comp. 1941, p. L-4; amd. Ord. 3325, 2-13-1984)
CHAPTER 10
RECYCLING YARDS
SECTION:
3-10-1: Definitions
3-10-2: License And Bond Required
3-10-3: Application For License
3-10-4: Standards Of Operation
3-10-5: Compliance By Employees
3-10-6: Enforcement
3-10-7: Revocation Of License
3-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
A "recycling yard" is defined as any place where materials that would otherwise
be considered waste, are collected, separated or processed to be used as raw
materials. Materials would include, but not be limited to, scrap iron or other
metals, motor vehicles not in running condition and not being restored to
running condition, parts of vehicles, plastic bottles or containers, rags,
paper, cardboard, glass and tires. (Ord. 3876, 7-6-1992)
3-10-2: LICENSE AND BOND REQUIRED:
No person shall carry on or engage in the business of a recycling yard in the
city without first procuring a license therefor, and paying a nonrefundable
license fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) by May 1 of each calendar year. Any
person conducting several or separate places of business shall obtain a license
required by this chapter and pay the license fee therefor, and give a bond for
each location. A bond shall be filed with the city clerk in the penal sum of
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), conditioned that the applicant will comply
with and observe the terms and conditions of all provisions of this code and
other city ordinances relating to said business, and that the applicant will
pay all costs, fines and penalties incurred on account of failure to observe
such laws. (Ord. 3876, 7-6-1992)
3-10-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Each person desiring to engage in the business of a recycling yard
shall make written application to the city clerk, on forms furnished by the
city clerk, which shall contain the following information:
      1.   Name and address of applicant.
      2.   Business name and business address.
      3.   Legal description of business premises.
      4.   Brief description of operation.
Upon receipt of the completed application, bond and fee, the city clerk shall
notify the following departments of said application and contents: city health
inspector (or designee), planning and development department and the fire
department. Said departments are responsible for inspection of the described
premises in accordance with all city ordinances. Each department shall inform
the city clerk of their decision to approve or disapprove the application based
upon compliance with City ordinances. The city council shall then act upon the
application and either approve or disapprove it. Upon city council approval,
the city clerk shall issue a one year license accordingly. In the case of
disapproval, the city council shall state the reasons for denial.
   B.   Said licenses shall be issued for a one year term and shall expire on
April 30. Recycling yards, whether new or renewals, are subject to the same
application and inspection procedures.
   C.   Licenses are not transferable. Refunds shall not be granted for unused
portions of the year.
   D.   A license may be revoked by the city council, after required notice,
for failure to comply with any or all city ordinances relating to the operation
or maintenance of a recycling yard. (Ord. 3876, 7-6-1992)
3-10-4: STANDARDS OF OPERATION:
   A.   In addition to the requirements of Ordinance 2479, the city's zoning
ordinance, each applicant is subject to the following:
      1.   No fires, other than those fully contained and used for heating
purposes only, shall be permitted upon the premises licensed pursuant to this
section, and no rubbish or other materials shall be burned except in an
approved type incinerator.
      2.   The applicant shall maintain the licensed area in a sanitary manner
as is reasonable and consistent with such an operation and shall not allow any
condition to exist which constitutes a health or safety hazard to surrounding
property or persons.
   B.   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a police officer from entering
the premises for the purpose of discovering stolen property.
   C.   A recycling operation shall not sell, melt, breakup or otherwise
dispose of any article which he has reason to believe has been stolen, or which
is adversely claimed by any person, or which he has been notified not to sell
or otherwise dispose of by the sheriff or police department. (Ord. 3876, 7-6-
1992)
3-10-5: COMPLIANCE BY EMPLOYEES:
Each clerk, agent or employee of any recycling yard shall be subject to and
bound by all the provisions of this chapter and shall be liable to the same
penalties, and to the same extent as his employer or principal for any
violations of this chapter, except that such clerks, agents or employees shall
not be required to pay the license fee or procure the license required by this
chapter. The employer of a clerk, agent or employee shall be liable for the
acts of his clerk, agent or employee. (Ord. 3876, 7-6-1992)
3-10-6: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   No recycling yard shall refuse, resist or attempt to prevent any
sheriff or police officer from making examination of the premises occupied by
the recycling yard for the purpose of discovering stolen property.
   B.   No recycling yard shall sell, melt, breakup or otherwise dispose of any
article which is adversely claimed by any person, or which he has been notified
not to sell or otherwise dispose of by any sheriff or police officer. (Ord.
3876, 7-6-1992)
3-10-7: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any license issued pursuant to this chapter may be revoked by the city council
at any time upon any failure on the part of the licensee to abide by the
provisions of this chapter, and may be revoked whenever the operation or
maintenance of any recycling yard by the licensee constitutes a nuisance. (Ord.
3876, 7-6-1992)
CHAPTER 11
RENDERING WORKS
SECTION:
3-11-1: License Required
3-11-2: Application, Fee And Issuance Of License
3-11-3: Standards Of Operation
3-11-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, except those persons doing a general pork
or beef packing business whose operations are under the supervision of the
bureau of animal industry of the United States Department of Agriculture, to
engage in the business or occupation of rendering, disposing of or the reducing
of dead animals of any kind within the city, or to use the streets of the city
for the purpose of conveying dead animals to the rendering or disposal plant
without first having made application and having obtained a license therefor in
the manner provided in this chapter. (Rev. Ord. 1540, Comp. 1941, p. L-4)
3-11-2: APPLICATION, FEE AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Application: Each person desiring to engage in the business subject to
this chapter shall first file an application with the city council stating the
name of the person or persons which shall operate the plant and its location,
and also make a sufficient showing that the plant will be operated in a
strictly sanitary manner and in accordance with the rules of the state board of
health and the provisions of this code and other ordinances of the city now in
effect or which may hereafter be passed, which application shall be approved
only upon the vote of the city council, who shall then direct the city clerk to
issue the license.
   B.   Fee, Issuance: When the application for a license required by this
chapter has been approved by the city council, the city clerk shall issue the
license to the applicant upon the payment of an annual license fee of twenty
five dollars ($25.00), which fee shall be payable annually on May 1, except if
the license is issued after October 1 of any year, the license fee shall equal
an amount sixty percent (60%) of the annual fee. (Rev. Ord. 1540, Comp. 1941,
p. L-4)
3-11-3: STANDARDS OF OPERATION:
Any person subject to this chapter shall at all times operate his plant in a
strictly sanitary manner and in accordance with the provisions of this code and
other ordinances of the city now in effect or which may hereafter be passed,
and the rules of the state board of health, and he shall be subject to the
supervision of the committees on public buildings and grounds and public safety
of the city council; nothing herein shall be deemed to conflict with the laws
of the state or of the United States. (Rev. Ord. 1540, Comp. 1941, p. L-4)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
General Health And Sanitation Regulations   1
Nuisances   2
Solid Waste Collection And Disposal   3
Private Collectors And Haulers   3A
Rubble Sites   3B
Hazardous Substances   3C
Waste And Used Tires   3D
Liquid Waste Hauler   3E
Litter Control   4
Noise Control   5
Air Pollution Control   6
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL HEALTH AND SANITATION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Health Authority
4-1-2: Food And Food Handlers
4-1-1: HEALTH AUTHORITY:
Pursuant to Iowa Code, chapter 137, the city council may, by agreement,
contract public health matters to county boards of health. It is therefore
hereby established that the Black Hawk County health department be, by
agreement, designated as the entity acting as the city's board of health. The
Black Hawk County health department is specifically responsible for the
enforcement of the following provisions of this code:
 
                       Section
Food and food handlers 4-1-2 of this chapter, pursuant to Iowa Code chapters
                       137F, 137C, 137D and 137E
                       Subsections
Garbage and refuse     4-3-5C and F,
                       4-3-7B and C, and chapter 3, articles A and B of this
                       title
Junk and junk dealers, Section
auto salvage yards     4-4-7 of this title, also title 3, chapter 10 of this
                       code
                       Chapter 4 of this title, with the following exceptions:
                       section
                       4-4-7 and subsections
Litter control          4-4-6A2 and A3 of this title and similar sections of
                       chapter 2 of this title addressing unauthorized
                       accumulations on properties containing residential or
                       commercial structures
Nuisances              Chapter 2 of this title
Swimming pools         Pursuant to Iowa Code chapter 135I
Vehicles for hire      Section
                       3-5B-24 of this code
 
together with such other provisions as may, from time to time, be assigned by
the mayor and city council. (Ord. 3672, 10-16-1989; amd. 2001 Code)
4-1-2: FOOD AND FOOD HANDLERS:
   A.   Enforcement Authority: Pursuant to Iowa Code chapter 170A, the director
of the department of inspections and appeals or the chief inspector of the
inspections division of the department of inspections and appeals of the state
of Iowa shall have the authority to enforce all provisions of the Iowa food
service sanitation code within the corporate limits of the city unless an
agreement has been entered into with the local board of health pursuant to Iowa
Code section 170A.4.
   B.   Testing: Sample testing of food or milk products shall be performed, as
provided by the laws of this city and state, in a certified lab or in the
city's testing lab. A fee established by resolution of the city council shall
be charged for each sample taken and processed. (Ord. 3672, 10-16-1989)
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Nuisances Enumerated
4-2-2: Obstructing Natural Drainage
4-2-3: Nuisances Prohibited
4-2-4: Stagnant Water
4-2-5: Abatement Procedures
4-2-6: Eviction Nuisance Abatement
4-2-1: NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
The following are deemed nuisances:
   A.   The erecting, continuing or using any building or other place for the
exercise of any trade, employment or manufacture, which, by occasioning noxious
exhalations, offensive smells, or other annoyances becomes injurious and
dangerous to the health, comfort or property of individuals or the public.
   B.   The causing or suffering of offal, filth or noisome substances to be
collected or to remain in any place to the prejudice of others.
   C.   The obstructing or impeding, without legal authority, the passage of
any navigable river, harbor or collection of water.
   D.   The corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure the water of any
river, stream or pond, or unlawfully diverting the same from its natural course
or state, to the injury or prejudice of others.
   E.   The obstructing or encumbering by fences, buildings or otherwise the
public roads, private ways, streets, alleys, commons, landing places or burying
grounds.
   F.   Houses of ill fame kept for the purposes of prostitution and lewdness,
gambling houses, or houses resorted to for the use of controlled substances, or
houses where drunkenness, quarrelling, fighting or breaches of the peace are
carried on or permitted to the disturbance of others.
   G.   Billboards, signboards and advertising signs, whether erected and
constructed on public or private property, which so obstruct and impair the
view of any portion or part of a public street, avenue, highway, boulevard or
alley or of a railroad or street railway track as to render dangerous the use
thereof.
   H.   Any object or structure hereafter erected within one thousand feet
(1,000') of the limits of any municipal or regularly established airport or
landing place, which may endanger or obstruct aerial navigation, including
takeoff and landing, unless such object or structure constitutes a proper use
or enjoyment of the land on which the same is located.
   I.   Any and all wood, lumber, timbers, metals and unused, abandoned or
junked cars or vehicles, scrap iron, brush, poles, rubber tires, dumping
grounds, tin cans, junk or other rubbish or deposits left deposited or existing
in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk, park, public place, vacant or occupied
private or public lot or building.
   J.   Open wells or cisterns, uncovered wells or cisterns or improperly
covered wells or cisterns.
   K.   Anything that was a nuisance under the common law and has not been
modified or repealed by statute. (Rev. Ord. 1541, Comp. 1941, p. N-3)
4-2-2: OBSTRUCTING NATURAL DRAINAGE:
   A.   The city council shall have the power to require the owner or lessee of
any lot, portion of a lot, or tract of ground extending into, across or
bordering on any hollow or ravine which constitutes a drain for surface water,
or a watercourse of any kind, who shall, by grading or filling such lot,
portion of a lot or tract of ground, obstruct the ordinary flow of water
through such ravine or watercourse, to build or construct, to the extent of the
lot or filling, such a drain or passageway for water as the city council may by
resolution designate.
   B.   In all cases where the owner or lessee of any lot, portion of a lot or
tract of ground extending into, across or bordering on any hollow or ravine
which constitutes a drain for surface water or watercourse of any kind, shall,
without constructing a suitable drain, fill or grade the lot, portion of a lot
or tract of ground so as to obstruct the flow of water through such watercourse
and cause the water to accumulate on any street, alley, public place or private
lot or ground, he shall be deemed guilty of maintaining a nuisance which may be
abated by the city, and on conviction thereof he may also be punished as
provided in the general penalty in section
1-3-1 of this code.
   C.   In addition to the penalties provided in the general penalty in section
1-3-1 of this code, in case the owner or lessee shall grade or fill any lot,
part of a lot or tract of ground, extending into, across or bordering on, any
hollow or ravine so as to obstruct the flow of water, the city council shall
have power, by resolution, to order the owner or lessee to construct such a
drain as the city council shall order, and within the time to be designated by
the city council; and upon such an order being made, it shall be the duty of
the street commissioner to so notify the owner or lessee in writing, and if the
owner or lessee shall fail or refuse to construct the drain within the time and
manner required, the street commissioner shall at once proceed to build the
drain, and report the expense thereof, with all costs arising therefrom, to the
city council, whereupon the city council may, by resolution, levy and assess
the expenses as a special tax upon the property so drained as provided for the
assessment and collection of special assessments. (Rev. Ord. 1129, Comp. 1941,
p. D-4)
4-2-3: NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
If judgment is entered against any person for erecting, causing, maintaining,
or continuing a nuisance as defined in this chapter, the person shall be deemed
to have committed a municipal infraction and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished as provided in the general penalty in section
1-3-2 of this code and any amendments thereto, and the court, in addition to
the civil penalty may order any alternative relief to abate the nuisance.
The provisions of Iowa Code chapter 657A shall apply to all property within the
jurisdiction of the city. (Ord. 4572, 9-9-2002; amd. Ord. 5595, 4-19-2021)
4-2-4: STAGNANT WATER:
   A.   The city council may at any time, by resolution, order any piece of
land or lot upon which water at any time becomes stagnant to be filled to such
a height, or to be drained in such a manner, and within such time, as the city
council in the resolution shall direct.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the owner of a piece of land or lot, subject to
subsection A of this section, or his agent, after service on him of a copy of
the resolution, or after a publication of the resolution once a week for two
(2) consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the city, to
comply with the directions of the notice within the time therein specified, and
in case of failure to do the work, by the owner or agent, it may be done at the
expense of the city and the amount of money expended therefor shall be a debt
due the city from the owner of the property and shall also be a lien on the
piece of land or lot from the time of the adoption of the resolution.
   C.   The expense of filling or draining such piece of land or lot pursuant
to subsection B of this section may be levied as a tax thereon. The levy shall
be by resolution, and the tax shall be levied and collected in the manner
provided for in the collection of other special taxes.
   D.   Any person who shall fail to comply with the resolution of the city
council requiring the drainage or filling of land within ten (10) days after
notice of the resolution has been served on him or his agent, or within ten
(10) days after the last publication of the notice in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city, shall be deemed guilty of an offense, and upon
conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in section
 1-3-1 of this code. (Ord. 4292, 4-27-1998)
4-2-5: ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Costs Of Abating Nuisance: When any person is found guilty of erecting,
causing or continuing a nuisance, the court, before whom the trial is had, may,
in addition to the penalty imposed, if any, order that the nuisance be abated
or removed at the expense of the defendant, and after inquiring into and
estimating, as nearly as may be, the sum necessary to defray the expenses of
the abatement, the court may issue a warrant therefor.
   B.   Executing Warrant: The expense of abating a nuisance by means of a
warrant issued pursuant to this chapter can be collected by the officer
executing the warrant in the same manner as damages and costs are collected on
execution, except that the materials of any buildings, fences or other things
that may be removed as a nuisance may be first levied upon and sold by the
officer, and if any of the proceeds remain after satisfying the expense of the
removal, the balance must be paid by the officer to the defendant, or to the
owner of the property levied upon, and if said proceeds are not sufficient to
pay such expenses, the officer must collect the residue thereof.
   C.   Bond Given: Instead of issuing a warrant as provided by this chapter,
the court may order the warrant to be stayed upon motion of the defendant and
upon his entering into an undertaking to the city in such sum and with said
surety as the court may direct, conditioned upon the defendant discontinuing
said nuisance within a time fixed by the court, not to exceed six (6) months,
or that the defendant causing the nuisance to be abated and removed as is
directed by the court; and upon the defendant's failure to perform the
conditions of his undertaking, the bond shall be forfeited and the court, upon
being satisfied as to the default, may order the warrant forthwith to issue,
and action may be brought on the bond. (Rev. Ord. 1541, Comp. 1941, p. N-3)
4-2-6: EVICTION NUISANCE ABATEMENT:
Upon receiving notification of an eviction from the Black Hawk County sheriff's
office, or being otherwise advised that an eviction has occurred, the public
works department will allow an evicted party twenty four (24) hours to claim
and/or clean up their belongings from the public right of way. Following the
initial twenty four (24) hour period, the public works department will allow
either the evicted party or the landlord twenty four (24) hours to clean up
and/or remove any remaining personal belongings on the public right of way.
Following this period, should any belongings remain on the public right of way,
the public works department may, but is not required to, clean up and remove
the belongings. If the public works department elects to remove the evicted
party's belongings, the landlord shall be charged a one hundred dollar
($100.00) administrative fee plus the actual costs of collection and disposal
of the property. If such charges are not paid within sixty (60) days of the
time the invoice is mailed to the landlord, the city may have such charge
assessed against the property as provided by law. At the discretion of the city
attorney, any violation of this section may also be pursued as a municipal
infraction. Each calendar day a violation is allowed to continue shall
constitute a separate and distinct violation. (Ord. 5203, 3-3-2014)
CHAPTER 3
SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definitions
4-3-2: Administration
4-3-3: Special Refuse Disposal
4-3-4: Disposal Services Provided; Exceptions
4-3-5: Collection Rules And Regulations
4-3-6: Fees For Service
4-3-7: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
4-3-8: Special Exceptions To Burning Ban
4-3-9: Violation; Penalty
4-3-10: Notice Regarding Nuisance
4-3-11: Payment, Assessment Of Costs, Appeal
4-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter:
BUSINESS: Each separate establishment for carrying on any profit-seeking,
institutional, religious, governmental or nonresidential activity or
enterprise, other than a “home occupation” as defined in section 10-3-1 of the
zoning ordinance.
DWELLING UNITS: Each household unit occupied by a single family.
EXCLUDED WASTE: Solid waste designated by the city as not appropriate for
recycling, including but not limited to hazardous materials, garbage, refuse,
yard waste, special waste, and other materials or waste identified in rules and
regulations established by the public works manager or designee and approved by
resolution of the city council.
GARBAGE: All solid and semisolid putrescible animal, grain, fruit, or vegetable
wastes resulting from the handling, preparing, cooking, storing, serving, and
consuming of food or of material intended for use as food.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any hazardous waste or hazardous substance regulated by
article C of this chapter, including but not limited to materials that are
hazardous, radioactive, volatile, corrosive, highly flammable, explosive,
biomedical, infectious, biohazardous, toxic or listed or characteristic
hazardous waste as defined by applicable law or otherwise regulated.
MULTIPLE DWELLING: A building or complex consisting of more than four (4)
dwelling units.
PERSON: Each individual, firm, corporation, partnership or other entity, or any
employee or agent thereof.
PREMISES: The property occupied by a separate family or business unit, whether
or not the same be separately owned.
RECYCLING: Any process by which certain solid waste is collected, separated,
and processed or returned to use in the form of raw materials or products.
RECYCLING MATERIALS: Solid waste designated by the city as appropriate for
recycling, such as newsprint, magazines, catalogs, cardboard, metal cans, and
plastic containers, as set forth in the rules and regulations established by
the public works manager or designee and approved by resolution of the city
council.
REFUSE: Putrescible and non-putrescible solid and semisolid wastes that are not
"hazardous materials", "garbage", “recycling materials” or "yard waste" as
defined in this section, including, but not limited to, trash, rubbish, wood
that is not yard waste, glass, ashes, incinerator ash or residue, street
cleanings, market and industrial solid wastes, and building materials.
SOLID WASTE: Any garbage, rubbish, refuse, recycling materials, yard waste, and
other discarded material, including solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained
gaseous material, resulting from industrial, municipal, commercial,
construction, mining or agricultural operations, and residential, community and
institutional activities.
SOLID WASTE FEE SCHEDULE: A schedule of fees, costs and charges, as adopted and
modified from time to time by resolution of the city council, that are
chargeable to customers in connection with the solid waste collection and
disposal program provided for in this chapter.
YARD WASTE: Vegetative wastes resulting from the care and maintenance of
residential yards, flowerbeds, and gardens, including, but not limited to,
grass clippings, leaves, tree limbs, bark, garden waste, brush and small twigs,
and branches not exceeding two and one-half inches (21/2") in diameter and
three and one-half feet (31/2') in length. Yard waste shall not include the
following:
   A.   Tree stumps, tree roots, trunks, logs, and branches that are more than
two and one-half inches (21/2") in diameter or three and one-half feet (31/2')
in length.
   B.   Material meeting the definition of "garbage" or "refuse" as provided in
this section.
   C.   Flower and decorative products manufactured or fabricated, or the waste
byproducts incidental to their manufacture or fabrication, which include
organic materials and other nonorganic wastes which are not practically
separable. Examples of this exemption include, but are not limited to, things
such as flower arrangements, decorated potted plants, wreaths, bouquets,
garlands, and small bedding flats.
   D.    Metal, plastic, rock, dirt, wire, fencing, weed barriers or other
underlayment, bordering materials, stone, brick, masonry, or other inorganic
material. (Ord. 4829, 8-14-2006; amd. Ord. 5075, 9-19-2011; amd. Ord. 5521, 11-
4-2019)
4-3-2: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Oversight: The public works department shall have the duty and
responsibility of overseeing the collection of garbage, refuse, recycling
materials and yard waste within the corporate limits of the city and see that
all garbage, refuse, recycling materials and yard waste is disposed of in a
sanitary manner, whether by the city, by contracted entities or by private
persons, in order to protect the health of the citizens thereof.
   B.   Collection: The city council shall, from time to time by resolution,
provide such other policies, rules and regulations in addition to the
provisions of this chapter as may be deemed necessary for the collection of
garbage, refuse, recycling materials and yard waste by and in the city. (Ord.
5203, 3-3-2014; amd. Ord. 5521, 11-4-2019)
4-3-3: SPECIAL REFUSE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Contiguous Disease Refuse: The removal of clothing, bedding or other
refuse from homes or other places where highly infectious diseases have
prevailed shall be performed under the supervision and direction of a licensed
physician and health authority. Such refuse shall not be placed in containers
for city collection.
   B.   Hypodermic Instruments: No person shall dispose of or discard any
hypodermic syringe, hypodermic needle or any instrument or device for making
hypodermic injections before first breaking, disassembling, destroying or
otherwise rendering inoperable and incapable of reuse such hypodermic syringe,
needle, instrument or device, and without safeguarding the disposal thereof by
wrapping or securing same in a suitable manner so as to avoid the possibility
of causing injury to the collection personnel.
   C.   Ashes: Ashes that are to be hauled by the city must have been wetted
and cool to the touch prior to collection. Ashes shall be placed in suitable
containers of such size and weight that they can be handled by one person.
   D.   Cardboard Boxes And Cartons: Prior to depositing refuse for collection
in authorized containers or receptacles or in commercial containers, the person
disposing of any such boxes or cartons or the person in charge of the premises
shall collapse all cardboard boxes, cartons and crates. (Ord. 5203, 3-3-2014;
amd. Ord. 5521, 11-4-2019)
4-3-4: DISPOSAL SERVICES PROVIDED; EXCEPTIONS:
The city shall provide, to every premises within the corporate limits of the
city, disposal service for garbage, refuse, recycling materials and yard waste,
with the following exceptions:
   A.   Business establishments shall have a private licensed collector remove
garbage and refuse.
   B.   Multiple dwellings shall have a private licensed collector remove
garbage and refuse.
   C.   Hazardous materials shall not be accepted for disposal by the city or
private haulers licensed under this chapter.
   D.   The city shall not provide collection and disposal of recycling
materials or yard waste for multiple dwellings or business establishments as
defined in section
4-3-1, but the occupants of multiple dwellings may dispose of recycling
materials and yard waste at drop-off sites maintained by the city for that
purpose. (Ord. 4943, 6-15-2009; amd. Ord. 5521, 11-4-2019)
4-3-5: COLLECTION RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Containers: Except as set forth in this chapter, the specific
requirements for the number and type of containers, placement of items for
collection, size of containers, weight of containers or items placed out for
collection, and other rules, regulations and policies for solid waste
collection shall be as set forth in the administrative policy, organization and
procedures prepared by the public works manager and adopted by resolution of
the city council.
   B.   Containers Required: It shall be required of every person in
possession, charge or control of any place in or from which building materials,
business trash, garbage, household trash, industrial waste, recycling
materials, tree and shrubbery trimmings and yard trash is accumulated or
produced to provide and at all times to keep in a suitable place, adequate and
suitable receptacles and containers capable of holding all such waste materials
which would ordinarily accumulate between the times of successive collections.
For customers of disposal services provided by the city, only containers
provided by the city shall be used. A customer of city disposal services shall
not alter any container, use it for any purpose other than its intended use, or
move it to a different address.
   C.   Container Specifications And Replacement: Containers other than those
provided by the city shall be of safe construction and design. All containers
shall be maintained in good and serviceable condition at all times. Any
receptacles or containers which do not conform to the provisions of this
chapter or which have ragged or sharp edges or any other defects likely to
hamper or injure the person collecting the contents thereof, or public, or
likely to cause spillage of contents, shall be promptly replaced upon notice.
If said containers, after proper notice, have not been replaced, the public
works department shall have the authority to order their replacement. After
initial delivery of a container by the city or its contractor, if a new
container is delivered, or an existing container is removed or exchanged, for
reasons other than damage or loss caused by city or its collection contractor,
the customer shall pay a fee as set forth in the solid waste fee schedule. A
customer shall also be liable for the cost of a new container if the container
is destroyed or otherwise rendered unsuitable for continued use by the customer
or anyone for whom the customer is responsible.
   D.   Loading And Unloading Areas: All loading and unloading areas shall be
provided with refuse receptacles for loose debris, paper, packaging materials
and other trash. The number of containers necessary for each area shall be as
required to maintain clean, neat and sanitary premises as directed by the
public works department.
   E.   Points Of Collection: Containers for refuse, recycling materials and
yard waste shall be placed for collection at ground level within three (3) feet
of the curb or alley line and with unobstructed access for automated equipment.
No collection shall occur where containers cannot be reached by collection
equipment or by collection personnel without unlocking or opening a door, gate
or any similar obstacle, encountering a dog, or otherwise being denied
reasonable access by parked vehicles, yard tools and equipment, or other
similar objects. Any container not properly placed for collection will not be
emptied, and a return visit to the property to empty a container at customer
request shall incur a fee as set forth in the solid waste fee schedule. The
public works department shall have the authority to determine the proper
receptacle or container location on private property.
   F.   Recycling Materials And Yard Wastes:
      1.   Recycling materials and yard waste shall each be separated from all
other wastes by the owner, occupant or agent of all premises in the city.
Specific requirements for disposal shall be as set forth in this chapter and
the administrative policies referred to in subsection A of this section.
      2.   Recycling materials and yard waste shall be disposed of in
containers provided by the city specifically for that purpose. Disposal of
recycling materials or yard waste for city pick up in other containers shall be
prohibited.
   G.   Authorized Collectors: No person other than the agents of the city or
persons so authorized by it pursuant to article A of this chapter shall collect
or transport garbage, refuse, recycling materials or yard waste through or upon
the streets or alleys of the city.
   H.   Securing Accumulations; Removal Of Same By Private Collectors: Any
multiple dwelling and any business shall have garbage and refuse collected by a
private licensed collector and may have recycling materials or yard waste
hauled by a private licensed collector. This shall not preclude the provisions
of subsection F1 of this section. All containers for collection of the garbage,
refuse, recycling materials or yard waste of any multiple dwelling or any
business shall be securely fastened in a closed position at all times, except
when the container is opened for depositing additional accumulations or when
the container is being emptied by a private licensed collector. No person other
than the owner of the premises, its authorized agents, or a private licensed
collector may remove garbage, refuse, recycling materials or yard waste fromany
container intended for collection of same.
   I.   Disposition Areas Established By City Council: Disposition of garbage,
refuse, recycling materials and yard waste shall be in areas designated by the
council. Disposition of solid construction rubble such as concrete, brick,
stone, sand or dirt, shall be in areas approved by the city as set forth in
article B of this chapter.
   J.   Vehicle Requirements: Any person, including, but not limited to,
employees or contractors of the city, hauling trash, refuse, garbage, offal or
other offensive substances in a vehicle of any kind over the streets of the
city, shall equip the vehicle with a suitable cover of durable material and
shall keep such cover over the load carrying portion of the vehicle at all
times, as necessary to prevent waste material from escaping. The cover shall be
of sufficient size to fully cover any refuse being carried in the vehicle and
to keep the refuse in place on such vehicle. The vehicle shall be so
constructed that no drippings or seepings from any refuse carried therein can
escape from the vehicle. If any of the material falls off or blows off or out
of the vehicle, the person hauling the same shall promptly clean up all of such
materials.
   K.   Suspension Of Recycling Service: Collection of recycling materials may
be suspended or delayed if the city or its contractor is unable to collect or
process recycling materials due to mechanical failures, significant weather
events, or any other cause beyond the reasonable control of the city or its
contractor. In addition, the city may elect to suspend collection service to a
particular customer in the event of a delinquent account, repeated mixing of
excluded materials with recycling materials, or other cause as determined by
the public works manager or designee in the exercise of his or her reasonable
discretion. (Ord. 4482, 5-29-2001; amd. Ord. 4943, 6-15-2009; Ord. 5075, 9-19-
2011;Ord. 5203, 3-3-2014; Ord. 5521, 11-4-2019)
4-3-6: FEES FOR SERVICE:
   A.   Fees Established: The expense of solid waste disposal services as
determined by the city council shall become a charge against the owner or
occupant of every dwelling unit to whom service is made available. Fees for the
services described below shall be set forth in the solid waste fee schedule.
      1.   Disposal Of Garbage: A fixed sum per month shall be charged to all
dwelling units and shall entitle each customer to dispose of one (1) standard
garbage container per week on an automated garbage route. A fee shall be
charged for one (1) additional thirty (30) gallon plastic bag placed upon the
lid of the garbage cart per week. The fee shall be collected by requiring the
purchase of a tag that must be affixed to the plastic bag placed out for
disposal. The fee or charge for this tag shall be as set forth in the solid
waste fee schedule.
      2.   Disposal Of Yard Waste: A fixed sum per month shall be charged to
each customer participating in the voluntary yard waste disposal program and
shall entitle the customer to dispose of a standard container of yard waste
according to the ordinary collection schedule. Yard waste shall be collected
from mid-April through November each year, during at least eighteen (18) weeks
as scheduled each year. There is no yard waste collection December through
March. Schedules shall be mailed to voluntary subscribers each December for the
next year’s service.
      3.   Disposal Of Recycling Materials: A fixed sum per month shall be
charged to each customer participating in the voluntary recycling program and
shall entitle the customer to dispose of a standard container of recycling
material on a bi-weekly basis.
      4.   Collection Sites: All customers will be charged a fee, as set forth
in the solid waste fee schedule, for operation of yard waste and satellite
recycling sites maintained by the city, whether or not the customer is
participating in a voluntary recycling or yard waste collection program.
      5.   Bulk Item Collection Services: Curbside collection of up to ten (10)
large, bulky refuse items, such as tires, appliances, furniture, bedding, etc.,
can be scheduled on a specific work order form available at the public works
department. No yard waste, hazardous waste, recycling materials or garbage
shall be collected. The fee or charge for this service shall be as set forth in
the solid waste fee schedule. Fabric covered items such as couches, chairs or
mattresses shall be wrapped in plastic to prevent the spread of any possible
insect infestation.
   Special environmentally restricted waste bulk items: Refrigerator, freezer,
air conditioner, tires, etc., must be disposed of by the city at a state
licensed decertification business or a licensed tire recycling business. All
tags must be purchased from the city for those items to be picked up by the
city.
   B.   Exemptions: An individual may be granted a partial exemption to the
fees and costs for garbage and refuse collection set forth in subsection A of
this section by annually making application to the city clerk and by meeting
criteria established by the finance committee of the city council. The
exemption shall be on a calendar year basis.
   C.   Delinquent Charges: There shall be assessed a one-time penalty of five
percent (5%) if the bill for solid waste disposal service is not paid at the
time indicated on the bill.
   D.   Change In Fees: The city may change and adjust the solid waste disposal
schedule from time to time by resolution of the city council as it becomes
necessary to be sufficient in each year for the payment of expenses of
operation and for repair, maintenance and replacement of solid waste disposal
equipment.
   E.   Collection Of Fees:
      1.   The municipal waterworks office is hereby authorized and directed to
render and collect fees or service charges for disposal services in accordance
with the fees established in subsection A of this section. The charge shall be
collected with the consumer's regular monthly and/or quarterly water and sewer
bill, and shall be shown as a separate item on the bill. The owner or manager
of a dwelling unit who provides and pays for the water and sewer consumption
charges of his tenants shall also be responsible and pay for the garbage and
refuse service charges of his tenants. Collection policies shall be the same as
the other city utility services.
   When a fee is six (6) months delinquent, the unpaid fee for city solid waste
disposal services shall be assessed against the property benefitted, as
provided for under Iowa Code section 384.84(3). Amounts collected for solid
waste disposal services shall be deposited with the city.
   2.   It shall be at the discretion of the municipal waterworks office to
decide on vacancies and partial use of dwelling units in connection with
monthly and/or quarterly billing amounts pertaining to solid waste collections.
(Ord. 3705, 4-2-1990; amd. Ord. 4129, 9-18-1995; 2001 Code; Ord. 4640, 9-2-
2003; Ord. 4687, 4-19-2004; Ord. 5203, 3-3-2014; Ord. 5521, 11-4-2019)
4-3-7: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Disposal On Public Property: It shall be unlawful for any person to
deposit any garbage, refuse, recycling materials or yard waste in any location
within the city unless such refuse be deposited as provided in this chapter.
   B.   Unlawful To Permit Hazardous Accumulations: It shall be unlawful for
any person to permit accumulation on any premises, improved or vacant, or any
public place in the city, of any quantities of garbage, refuse, recycling
materials or yard waste, whether in containers or not, that shall, in the
opinion of code enforcement, constitute a health or sanitation hazard or
nuisance. Any quantity of garbage, refuse, recycling materials or yard waste in
a container that exceeds the capacity of the container when closed shall be
deemed a nuisance and shall be subject to abatement as provided in this
chapter.
   C.   Rubbish And Trash Near Buildings:
      1.   Accumulation And Burning: Any person who shall throw, deposit or
place in or about any building or cellar or in or upon any street or alley or
allow to remain in such building or cellar or upon any such street or alley,
any solid waste of any kind or character whatsoever, shall be deemed guilty of
an offense. Solid waste which has been thrown, deposited or placed in or about
any building or cellar, street, or alley in the city, or which has accumulated
in such places, including such waste materials as are placed in an appropriate
container and exceed the capacity of the container when closed, shall be deemed
a nuisance and may be abated. All open burning of solid waste shall be
prohibited.
      2.   Burning Tires: Any tire fires on any property shall be presumed to
be set by the property owner, or if said property owner does not reside there,
the occupant of the property. It shall be the sole responsibility of the
property owner or occupant to report who was responsible for the fire if said
fire was not set by said owner or occupant.
   D.   Excluded Waste: It shall be a violation for any customer of the
voluntary disposal program for recycling materials to place any excluded waste
in the recycling container. If a container is found to contain excluded waste
at the time of collection, the container will not be emptied until the next
scheduled collection date when the excluded waste has been removed. (Ord. 4943,
6-15-2009; amd. Ord. 5521, 11-4-2019)
4-3-8: SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS TO BURNING BAN:
   A.   The city, in burning trees, tree trimmings, or the like generated by
the forestry department, street department, or other city departments in their
normal course of work or resulting from a natural disaster declared as such by
the city council, shall not be subject to the burning ban stated in subsection
4-3-7C1 of this chapter. For purposes of this subsection, "trees" means all
parts of a tree or shrub, including, but not limited to, trunks, limbs,
branches, stumps, and roots or root masses.
   B.   The city council shall have the authority, consistent with this
section, to grant exceptions to the ban on open burning and to allow the
burning of certain vegetative matter and solid wastes under special limited
conditions. An application for exception must be filed with the city clerk's
office, reviewed by the fire department (which may consult with the leisure
services and public works departments when appropriate), and forwarded to the
city council for approval. An exception may be granted in cases when burning of
native vegetation is a recognized management technique.
   C.   Said application must contain the following information and any other
information deemed appropriate by the city:
      1.   Name of applicant;
      2.   Address and telephone number of applicant;
      3.   Location and size of area to be burned;
      4.   Dates and times of burning;
      5.   Description of vegetation;
      6.   Description of management technique; and
      7.   Containment procedures.
A fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) must be filed with the application. In addition
to the application fee, the fire department shall charge for standby services
and extinguishment of intentionally set fires as contained in section
9-2A-12 of this code.
   D.   The fire department will determine for each exception whether:
      1.   Atmospheric conditions are proper to allow the burning;
      2.   Applicable provisions of state law or regulation are complied with;
and
      3.   Standby vehicles are needed to ensure the safety of life and
property adjacent to the site.
   E.   Any individual who claims to be adversely affected by allowance of the
exception may file a statement with the city clerk containing information to
support the claim. If the city council finds that sufficient controversy exists
regarding such application, a public hearing may be held.
   F.   In determining whether to grant or deny the application, the city
council shall balance the following: hardship to the applicant, the community
and other persons resulting from the denial of the exception against the
adverse impact on the health, safety and welfare of persons affected, the
adverse impact on property affected, and any other adverse impacts of granting
the exception. Applicants for exceptions and persons contesting exceptions may
be required to submit any information/document reasonably required by the city
council. In granting or denying an application, the city council shall place on
public file a copy of the decision and the reasons for denying or granting the
exception.
   G.   Exceptions shall be granted by notice to the applicant containing all
necessary conditions, including a time limit on the permitted activity. Any
exception shall not become effective until all conditions are agreed to in
writing by the applicant. Noncompliance with any condition of the exception may
result in termination of the grant of exception.
   H.   Applications for exceptions shall be treated as an application for an
initial exception.
   I.   Exceptions must be filed for each occurrence.
   J.   Appeals of an adverse decision of the city council shall be made to the
district court in and for Black Hawk County. Review of the court shall be de
novo limited to whether or not the decision is supported by substantial
evidence. (Ord. 4829, 8-14-2006; amd. Ord. 5203, 3-3-2014; Ord. 5521, 11-4-
2019)
4-3-9: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   For any customer whose solid waste container has been found to contain
excluded waste, penalties shall be as follows for any occurrence within a given
period of twenty-four (24) months:
      1.   First occurrence: Notification of violation.
      2.   Second occurrence: Fifty dollar ($50.00) fine.
      3.   Third occurrence: One hundred dollar ($100.00) fine.
      4.   Any subsequent occurrence: See subsection B.
   In addition, if the city or its contractor discovers excluded waste after it
has been collected, such waste may be transported, handled and disposed of in
accordance with applicable law, and the customer may be charged all costs
incurred due to the transportation, handling and disposal of the excluded waste
and all related actions.
   B.   Except as set forth in subsection A, persons violating the provisions
of this chapter shall be guilty of a municipal infraction and upon conviction
thereof shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of subsection 1-3-
2C of this code. (Ord. 4441, 10-16-2000; amd. Ord. 5521, 11-4-2019)
4-3-10: NOTICE REGARDING NUISANCE:
   A.   Upon receipt of a complaint or observation by code enforcement or by
the public works manager or his/her designee of a violation of this chapter, a
notice shall be issued to the property owner (as shown by the official records
of Black Hawk County), agent, and/or person in possession of said property,
describing the nuisance or hazard on said property. The first such notice
issued in any calendar year shall demand abatement of the nuisance within seven
(7) days from the date of service as evidenced on the return, or if by
certified mail, from the date of mailing. Any subsequent notices issued in the
same calendar year shall demand abatement within one day from the date of
personal service or mailing as stated above. Failure of the owner to abate the
nuisance may result in the city's abating it and assessing all costs associated
therewith against the affected property. Costs associated with abating a
nuisance include, but are not limited to, landfill fees, mileage reimbursement
at the standard IRS business rate use then in effect, and the hourly rate of
truck operator time (minimum 1 hour) as determined by the public works
committee of the city council from time to time.
   B.   Notice required herein shall be made by certified mail or by the
issuing officer by personal service as provided by applicable law, stating that
the property is in violation of this chapter and that failure of the owner,
agent, and/or person in possession of said property to abate the nuisance
within the time frame set forth herein may result in the city's abating the
nuisance and assessing costs of said action against the property. If the public
works manager or his/her designee, code enforcement, or the fire or health
departments declare the nuisance to be an emergency, the city may perform any
action required to abate the nuisance without prior notice, and assess any and
all costs of said action to the property as provided herein. An "emergency"
shall be any act or omission of the property owner, agent, and/or person in
possession which constitutes a health, safety, or fire hazard to anyone. (Ord.
5203, 3-3-2014; amd. Ord. 5521, 11-4-2019)
4-3-11: PAYMENT, ASSESSMENT OF COSTS, APPEAL:
   A.   Fees And Charges: Upon completion of the abatement of a hazard or
nuisance as provided for herein, the city clerk shall demand payment for the
costs of such abatement from the property owner by mailing a statement of the
fee to the last known address of the owner and/or person in possession as shown
by the records of the county. Notice shall be by ordinary mail. Said statement
shall be due and payable upon mailing and shall become delinquent if not paid
within ten (10) days of date of mailing the notice. Any delinquent fees and
charges may be assessed against the property for collection in the same manner
as a property tax, as provided in state law.
   B.   Reserved.
   C.   Appeal: A property owner in receipt of a statement of fees and charges
for an abatement who contests the statement may file a written appeal with the
city clerk within ten (10) days of the postmarked date of the statement. An
administrative filing fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) must be paid when the
appeal is filed. Failure to file the appeal and pay the administrative filing
fee within said ten (10) days shall constitute a waiver of the right to a
hearing, and the statement of fees and charges shall thereupon become final.
Hearing on the appeal before the city council or its designated committee shall
be scheduled for a date within thirty (30) days of filing the appeal and shall
be scheduled for no more than thirty (30) minutes in length, or such additional
time as the city council or committee in its discretion may deem necessary. If
the appellant desires additional time, he or she must make application to the
city council or committee at least seven (7) days prior to the hearing date.
The appeal hearing shall be simple and informal, without regard to
technicalities of procedure or rules regarding admissibility of evidence. The
city council or committee may consider any evidence it considers credible,
including testimony of city employees, written summaries and other secondary
sources, and give such weight to the evidence as it considers warranted. After
such hearing, the city council or committee shall determine whether the amount
of the assessment should be affirmed, reduced, or waived. Such determination
shall be contained in a written decision and shall be filed with the city clerk
within ten (10) days after the hearing, or any continued session thereof. In
the event the assessment is waived by over half, the administrative filing fee
for the appeal will be refunded to the appellant. (Ord. 4943, 6-15-2009; amd.
Ord. 5521, 11-4-2019)
ARTICLE A. PRIVATE COLLECTORS AND HAULERS
SECTION:
4-3A-1: Collectors Authorized
4-3A-2: Permit Required; Inspection Fee
4-3A-3: Vehicle Requirements
4-3A-4: Rules And Regulations
4-3A-5: Revocation Of Permit
4-3A-1: COLLECTORS AUTHORIZED:
All who use private collectors for the hauling of garbage, refuse, recycling
material or yard waste shall use only collectors licensed by the city as
provided in this article. (Ord. 3705, 4-2-1990; amd. Ord. 5521, 11-4-2019)
4-3A-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; INSPECTION FEE:
   A.   No person shall engage in the business of collecting and hauling
garbage, refuse, recycling material or yard waste in the city without first
obtaining a permit from the city. The permit shall be issued when the equipment
for hauling garbage, refuse, recycling material or yard waste shall meet the
requirements of this article, such equipment shall have been inspected and an
inspection fee paid to the city. The inspection fee shall be fifty dollars
($50.00) per vehicle per year. The license shall be valid for one year unless
sooner revoked as provided in this article. All licenses are due May 1 of each
year.
   B.   An application for a permit shall be filed with the health department
and shall contain the following information:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant;
      2.   The vehicle to be used;
      3.   General information concerning the routes to be traveled and places
to be served.
   C.   No permit issued pursuant to this article shall be transferable from
one person to another, or from one vehicle to another. (Ord. 3705, 4-2-1990;
amd. Ord. 5521, 11-4-2019)
4-3A-3: VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS:
No permit shall be issued or renewed unless the vehicles to be used have been
inspected by the health department. The vehicles must meet the following
requirements:
   A.   Construction of the vehicles shall be such that rubbish or bulk
material loaded therein or transported thereby shall be securely contained.
Trucks with open sides, such as a stake body truck must have some type of
paneling installed on the interior of the stakes to prevent the loss of any
rubbish or bulk material. Plywood or hardboard may be used to line the
interior; however, large sections of cardboard will not be acceptable.
   B.   All vehicles shall be equipped with a permanently attached covering
over the bed of the vehicle, or with a suitable tarpaulin. The tarpaulin must
be constructed in such a manner so that both sides and the end of the tarpaulin
can be securely tied down or loaded to prevent the rubbish or bulk material
from being blown or allowed to escape.
   C.   All vehicles other than stake body types must be equipped with a
tailgate of rigid construction of at least one and one-half feet (11/2') in
height which, when closed shall securely hold and contain all rubbish and bulk
material. Acceptable paneling as indicated above may be used in lieu of the
tailgate only on stake body vehicles.
   D.   Any compaction type vehicle must be equipped with a tight fitting
tarpaulin or other means to prevent rubbish or other material from being blown
or allowed to escape from the hopper area.
   E.   All vehicles inspected and licensed under this section shall
prominently display the permit number on the upper or lower left corner of the
windshield of the vehicle upon a decal to be furnished by the health
department. (Ord. 3705, 4-2-1990; amd. Ord. 5521, 11-4-2019)
4-3A-4: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Transporting Waste Materials: No person shall haul, transport or
otherwise convey any garbage, rubbish, trash, waste, building material, tree or
shrubbery branches or limbs, or any other waste material within the city unless
the same is contained in covered receptacles or is otherwise secured either to
or within the vehicle so that such material does not fall off or blow off or
out of the vehicle hauling the same. In the event any of the material falls
off, blows off or out of the vehicle, the person hauling the same shall clean
up all of the waste material.
   B.   Dumping In Authorized Places: It shall be unlawful for any person to
use any lot, open space, street or roadway in the city instead of the location
provided for and established by the city council, for the dumping or depositing
of dead animal matter, garbage matter, and offensive materials and substances,
and other refuse, rubbish, recycling material or yard waste.
   C.   Penalty: Any person who shall violate this section or any part thereof
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished as provided in section
1-3-1 of this code. (Ord. 3705, 4-2-1990; amd. Ord. 5521, 11-4-2019)
4-3A-5: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
Persons licensed in accordance with the provisions of this article who fail or
refuse to gather and carry away, in covered receptacles, any deposit of
garbage, refuse, recycling material or yard waste in the proper manner from any
place where the same is deposited for removal by them, may have their license
revoked by the city council after a hearing before the city council. The
licensee shall have at least five (5) days' notice prior to the hearing, and an
opportunity to appear and be heard. (Ord. 3705, 4-2-1990; amd. Ord. 5521, 11-4-
2019)
ARTICLE B. RUBBLE SITES
SECTION:
4-3B-1: Definitions
4-3B-2: Permit Required
4-3B-3: Filling Regulations
4-3B-4: Duties And Powers
4-3B-5: Liability Provisions
4-3B-6: Nuisance Declared
4-3B-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following words and phrases are defined
and shall be construed to mean, unless the context in which they are used
clearly indicates an intent to the contrary, as follows:
FILL OR FILLING: The act of placing, setting down or depositing rubble on land
for the purpose of, or which has the resultant effect of, changing the existing
contour or raising the elevation of said land.
PERSON: Includes any person, firm, corporation or partnership.
RUBBLE: Dirt, stone, brick or similar inorganic material.
RUBBLE PERMIT: A permit to engage in the act of filling on a specified parcel
of land. (Ord. 3541, 4-4-1988)
4-3B-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall fill upon any lot, tract or parcel of land unless he
shall first obtain a rubble permit and post a suitable bond as provided herein.
   B.   All rubble permits shall be issued by the health department upon
application being duly approved. Said application shall be signed by the owner
of the premises, together with the person applying for the permit if he be
other than the owner. The application shall also include a plat or site plan
including, but not limited to, the legal description of the property and
existing and proposed final ground elevations. The application shall also
include an estimate of the number of cubic yards necessary to fill said land to
approximately the grade of terrain bounding the area to be filled. The owner
shall allow city personnel, or the city's designated representatives, access to
the property for purposes of reviewing the physical features of the site for
the approval of rubble site applications or renewals. The permit shall run for
a period of one year and shall be subject to renewal. The health department
shall have the right to revoke such permit at any time within the year or
refuse to renew the permit if, in its judgment, the permittee is depositing or
permitting or causing to be deposited any materials on said premises other than
rubble, or has failed or refused to comply with any of the regulations set
forth in this section.
   C.   There shall be submitted with the application a permit fee of fifty
dollars ($50.00) and a cash bond or surety bond executed by a surety company
licensed to do business in Iowa, in the sum of not less than ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00), to secure the city against damages and expenses which it
may incur in the correction of conditions in said applicant's operations. The
bond shall be approved by the city council prior to the issuance of said
permit.
   D.   If a rubble permit is sought for any fill activity located within the
flood plain, prior approval and certification must be obtained from the Iowa
Department of Natural Resources. Said certification must accompany the
application and bond. (Ord. 3541, 4-4-1988)
4-3B-3: FILLING REGULATIONS:
Every person who shall fill upon any lot, tract or parcel of land shall fill
such land as evenly as possible and at the end of such filling shall level and
grade such fill and shall see to it that the top sixteen inches (16") thereof
shall be of soil, free from broken concrete and relatively free from debris,
and that the upper four inches (4") thereof shall be kept free from dust and
erosion due to water and wind at all times during and after the filling
operations; and after filling, the permit holder or owner shall establish and
maintain vegetative cover. (Ord. 3541, 4-4-1988)
4-3B-4: DUTIES AND POWERS:
   A.   Health Department:
      1.   The health department shall enforce these regulations. Said
department shall have power and authority to require compliance with this
article.
      2.   The health department may require that a person in violation of this
article discontinue operations until such time as they conform to the terms of
this article.
   B.   City Planning And Development Department: The site shall be reviewed by
the planning and development department prior to the final issuance or renewal
of any rubble permit for encroachments into proposed or existing public right
of way, drainage or utility easements or adverse effects on the overall
development of the surrounding area or any other potential problems that the
filling operation might incur. (Ord. 3541, 4-4-1988)
4-3B-5: LIABILITY PROVISIONS:
The owners, lessees, or any other persons having possession and control over
any filling operation or any public or private dumping ground, under the terms
of this article, shall be responsible for the acts of their agents or
employees, to the same extent as though they were the act of such principal.
The owners, lessees or other persons shall be subject to citation for violation
of the provisions of this article by any of their agents, or employees, and any
penalty imposed under the terms of this chapter may be imposed upon said
principal and/or upon the agents or employees of the principal. (Ord. 3541, 4-
4-1988)
4-3B-6: NUISANCE DECLARED:
The depositing on any land of materials other than rubble with or without the
possession of a valid permit as provided herein is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance. (Ord. 3541, 4-4-1988)
ARTICLE C. HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES
SECTION:
4-3C-1: Purpose
4-3C-2: Definitions
4-3C-3: Cleanup Required
4-3C-4: Enforcement
4-3C-5: City Liability
4-3C-6: Penalty
4-3C-1: PURPOSE:
In order to reduce the danger to public health, safety and welfare from
hazardous conditions and/or substances, these regulations are promulgated to
establish responsibility for the removal and cleanup of spills, leakage or
release of a hazardous substance which creates an immediate or potential danger
to the public health or safety within the city limits. (Ord. 3322, 1-23-1984)
4-3C-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following words have the following
meanings:
AUTHORIZED PERSON: The chief of the fire department or his duly appointed
designee.
CLEANUP: The removal of the hazardous wastes or substances to a place where
such substances would not cause any danger to persons or the environment, in
accordance with state rules thereof or the treatment of the material, as
defined herein, to eliminate the hazardous condition, including the restoration
of the area to a general good appearance without noticeable odor as far as
practicable.
HAZARDOUS CONDITION: Any situation as defined in Iowa Code section 455B.381,
subsection 4.
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE: Any substance as defined in Iowa Code section 455B.381,
subsection 5.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: Those wastes which are included by definition in Iowa Code
section 455B.411, subsection 3(a).
RESPONSIBLE PERSON: The party, whether the owner, agent, lessor or tenant, in
charge of the hazardous substance or hazardous wastes being stored, processed
or handled, or the owner or bailee transporting hazardous wastes or substances
whether on public ways or grounds or on private property where the spillage,
leakage or release of a hazardous substance would cause an immediate or
potential danger to the public or to any person or to the environment.
TREATMENT: A method, technique or process, including, but not limited to,
neutralization which is designed to change the physical, chemical or biological
character or composition of a hazardous substance so as to neutralize or render
it nonhazardous, safer for transport, amenable for recovery, amenable for
storage or a reduction in volume. Treatment includes any activity or processing
which is designed to change the physical form or chemical composition of a
hazardous waste or substance so as to render it nonhazardous. (Ord. 3322, 1-23-
1984)
4-3C-3: CLEANUP REQUIRED:
   A.   Whenever a hazardous condition is created by the deposit, injection,
dumping, spilling, leaking or placing of a hazardous waste or substance, so
that the hazardous substance or waste or a constituent of the hazardous waste
or substance has entered the environment or has been emitted into the air or
discharged into any waters, including ground waters, the responsible person
shall cause the condition to be remedied by a "cleanup", as defined in section
4-3C-2 of this article, as rapidly as is feasible to an acceptable and safe
condition. The costs of the cleanup shall be borne by the responsible person.
   B.   In the event the responsible person cannot be located within a
reasonable period of time, or if the responsible person does not cause the
cleanup to begin within a reasonable time in relation to the hazard and
circumstances of the incident, the city may, by the authorized person, give
reasonable notice, based on the character of the hazardous condition, which
notice shall set a deadline for accomplishing the cleanup or that the city will
proceed to procure cleanup services. Said notice shall set forth a reasonable
estimate of the costs of cleanup and the responsible person shall be billed for
all costs associated with the cleanup, including, but not limited to, equipment
rendered unserviceable, personnel costs, including overtime, disposal costs and
any other costs associated therewith.
   C.   If the bill for these services is not paid within thirty (30) days, the
city may proceed, after service of notice, either by certified mail or one
publication in the local newspaper and hearing before the city council, to
obtain payment by all legal means.
   D.   If the cost of cleanup is beyond the capacity of the city to finance
it, the authorized person shall proceed pursuant to Iowa Code section 455B.387,
subsection 2, and immediately seek any state or federal funds available for
said cleanup. (Ord. 3322, 1-23-1984)
4-3C-4: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Notifications: The first city officer or employee who arrives at the
scene of the incident involving hazardous substances, if not a peace officer,
shall notify the police department who then shall notify the proper state
office in the manner established by state law.
   B.   Police Authority: If the circumstances so require, the chief of police
or his representative, may:
      1.   Evacuate persons from the site of the hazardous condition; and
      2.   Establish perimeters, or other boundaries at or near the site of the
hazardous condition. Said perimeters or boundaries shall be erected for the
purpose of barring all persons except those who are responsible for the cleanup
or supervision of the cleanup of the hazardous condition.
No person shall disobey an order of the chief of police, the fire chief or any
other peace officer issued under this section. (Ord. 3322, 1-23-1984)
4-3C-5: CITY LIABILITY:
The city shall not be liable for any losses claimed by any person which are
alleged to have occurred due to any hazardous condition. (Ord. 3322, 1-23-1984)
4-3C-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision, section or subsection of this article shall
be deemed guilty of a municipal infraction and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be punished as provided in subsection
1-3-2C of this code. (Ord. 3322, 1-23-1984; amd. Ord. 4441, 10-16-2000)
ARTICLE D. WASTE AND USED TIRES
SECTION:
4-3D-1: Jurisdiction
4-3D-2: Purpose
4-3D-3: Definitions
4-3D-4: Storage Restrictions
4-3D-5: Appeal
4-3D-6: Presumption
4-3D-7: Violation; Penalty
4-3D-1: JURISDICTION:
Enforcement of this article shall be the responsibility of the Waterloo fire
rescue and the Black Hawk County health department. (Ord. 4249, 8-25-1997)
4-3D-2: PURPOSE:
This article shall be broadly construed to effectuate the purpose of
safeguarding the life, safety and health of the public. To that end, there
shall be a limit on the number of used or waste tires which may be stored
within the city limits. (Ord. 4249, 8-25-1997)
4-3D-3: DEFINITIONS:
NEW TIRE: Any tire which has not been used for any purpose other than for sale.
USED TIRE: Any tire other than a new or waste tire.
WASTE TIRE: A tire that is no longer suitable for its original intended purpose
due to wear, damage, or defect. A waste tire shall not include a nonpneumatic
tire. (Ord. 4249, 8-25-1997)
4-3D-4: STORAGE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Waste Tires:
      1.   With the exception of those tires mounted on any operable vehicle,
no person shall have more than two hundred (200) waste tires on any one
property or on numerous properties under their ownership, management or
control.
      2.   All tires shall be properly stored in tire storage racks in such a
manner as to prevent their becoming breeding grounds for mosquitoes or pose any
public health problem.
      3.   In any area zoned residential, as set out in the city's zoning
ordinance, or used or platted for residential purposes, there shall be no more
than eight (8) waste or used tires or any combination thereof, and said tires
shall be stored at all times in a fully enclosed structure.
   B.   Used Tires:
      1.   With the exception of those tires mounted on any operable vehicle,
no person shall have more than three hundred (300) used tires on any one
property or on numerous properties under their ownership, management or
control.
      2.   All tires shall be properly stored in tire storage racks in such a
manner as to prevent their becoming breeding grounds for mosquitoes or pose any
public health problem.
      3.   In any area zoned residential, as set out in the city's zoning
ordinance, or used or platted for residential purposes, there shall be no more
than eight (8) waste or used tires or any combination thereof, and said tires
shall be stored at all times in a fully enclosed structure. (Ord. 4249, 8-25-
1997)
4-3D-5: APPEAL:
Anyone who is aggrieved by an order of the fire chief to comply with this
article may, within ten (10) days of said order, submit in writing the reason
(s) for said noncompliance. The fire chief, in consultation with the Black Hawk
County health department, shall review the appeal and may within thirty (30)
days of the date of the appeal, order compliance or grant a variance. Said
review shall be to determine if noncompliance will substantially affect the
life, safety or health of the public. In the event the fire chief, after
consultation with the Black Hawk County health department, orders compliance
and the grievant fails to do so, the fire chief may issue a citation for a
violation of this article subject to the penalty provisions as set forth
herein. (Ord. 4249, 8-25-1997)
4-3D-6: PRESUMPTION:
Any tire found on a property shall be presumed to be placed there by the owner
of said property or, if said owner does not reside at the property, the
occupant thereof. It shall be the sole responsibility of the property owner or
occupant of the property on which any tires are placed to report whom was
responsible for the placement of said tires. Such report shall be to the fire
chief or his designee. (Ord. 4249, 8-25-1997)
4-3D-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Penalty for any violation of this article shall be a municipal infraction with
fines as set out in subsection
1-3-2C of this code, in addition to any equitable relief. (Ord. 4249, 8-25-
1997; amd. 2001 Code)
ARTICLE E. LIQUID WASTE HAULER
SECTION:
4-3E-1: Definitions
4-3E-2: Permit
4-3E-3: Application For Permit
4-3E-4: Permit Fee
4-3E-5: Transferability Of Permit
4-3E-6: Suspension, Revocation Of Permit; Cause
4-3E-7: Suspension, Revocation; Procedure
4-3E-8: Vehicle Identification
4-3E-9: Display Of Permit
4-3E-10: Hours Of Operation
4-3E-11: Disposal Station
4-3E-12: Identification Of Source; Manifest
4-3E-13: Mixing Wastes
4-3E-14: Waste Load Limits
4-3E-15: Sand Trap Wastes
4-3E-16: Mineral Oil And Grease Trap Wastes
4-3E-17: Rejection Of Waste Loads
4-3E-18: Rates
4-3E-19: Other Regulations
4-3E-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms have the following
meanings:
ADMINISTRATOR: The administrator or superintendent of the waste management
services department, or his designee.
DISPOSAL STATION: The septic hauler disposal pad at 3505 Easton Avenue,
Waterloo, Iowa.
LIQUID WASTE: The contents of any privy vault, cesspool, sump, septic tank,
chemical toilet, or acceptable commercial or industrial waste intended to be
disposed of at the waste management services wastewater treatment facilities.
WASTE HAULER: Any person, firm or entity engaged in or engaging in the
collection, removal or transportation of liquid waste for the purpose of
disposing of the same at the waste management services wastewater treatment
facilities. (Ord. 4927, 11-3-2008)
4-3E-2: PERMIT:
No waste hauler shall collect, remove or transport any liquid waste from a site
located within the corporate limits of the city for the purpose of delivering
such waste to the wastewater treatment facilities without first obtaining a
waste hauler's permit issued by the waste management services department. (Ord.
4927, 11-3-2008)
4-3E-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
All applications for waste hauler permits must be submitted in writing, using
the approved permit application, to the waste management services department/
pretreatment lab services, 3505 Easton Avenue, Waterloo, IA, 50702. (Ord. 4927,
11-3-2008)
4-3E-4: PERMIT FEE:
   A.   Upon the administrator's, or his/her designee's, approval of an
application for a waste hauler's permit, the applicant shall deliver to the
waste management services department a sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for
each vehicle to be used by the applicant in collecting, transporting and
disposing of liquid waste.
   B.   Permits are valid for three (3) years. The permit must be renewed prior
to the expiration date specified thereon. Renewal applications must be made in
the same manner as an initial application and shall be subject to review and
approval by the administrator in the same manner as initial applications.
Renewal applications must be submitted no later than thirty (30) days prior to
expiration of the expiring permit. The permit fee must accompany the renewal
application. (Ord. 4927, 11-3-2008)
4-3E-5: TRANSFERABILITY OF PERMIT:
Waste hauler permits are not transferable. (Ord. 4927, 11-3-2008)
4-3E-6: SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OF PERMIT; CAUSE:
Any of the following shall constitute cause for the suspension or revocation of
a permit issued under this article when committed by a permit holder or any
employee, agent or representative of a permit holder:
   A.   The making of any false or misleading statement concerning the nature,
origin or quantity of liquid waste delivered for disposal;
   B.   The making or supplying of any false signature or the giving of any
false or misleading information in connection with any application or renewal
application or in connection with any record, statement or document required to
be prepared or maintained under the provisions of this article;
   C.   The violation of any of the provisions of this article. (Ord. 4927, 11-
3-2008)
4-3E-7: SUSPENSION, REVOCATION; PROCEDURE:
In the event of an occurrence warranting the suspension or revocation of any
permit issued under this article, the following procedure shall apply:
   A.   The administrator, or his/her designee, shall notify the permit holder,
in writing, that the permit is suspended or revoked. Such notice shall be sent
to the permit holder by certified mail, return receipt requested, at the
address listed on the permit holder's application. The notice shall set forth
the nature of the violation and shall set forth the period of suspension, or in
the case of revocation, that the permit is revoked. The administrator shall
have the authority to determine whether a violation requires suspension (and
for how long) or whether the permit should be revoked. The notice shall advise
the permit holder of his right to request a hearing on the suspension or
revocation. The permit holder receiving a notice of suspension or revocation
may request a hearing thereon before the administrator. The hearing request
must be in writing, must have a copy of the notice of suspension or revocation
attached to it and must be delivered to the waste management services
department no later than ten (10) days after the date of such notice. If no
request for hearing is made within the time set forth above, the suspension or
revocation shall, upon the expiration of such time, become immediately
effective and the permit holder shall have no right to further hearing or
appeal. If timely request for hearing is made, the permit holder shall be
notified in writing of the time, date and place of hearing which shall be no
sooner than five (5), nor more than fifteen (15), working days following the
waste management services department receipt of the request for hearing.
   B.   If a hearing is requested, the suspension or revocation shall not
become effective until the written decision of the administrator is made;
provided, however, that if the administrator determines that the violations
constituting cause for suspension or revocation present an immediate hazard to
person or property, the administrator shall so state in the notice of
suspension or revocation and, in that event, the suspension or revocation shall
be effective immediately upon its issuance.
   C.   Any permit holder whose permit has been revoked shall be ineligible for
another permit for a period of one year after the date of revocation. (Ord.
4927, 11-3-2008)
4-3E-8: VEHICLE IDENTIFICATION:
Each vehicle used in the conveyance of liquid waste pursuant to a permit issued
under this article shall have a decal (supplied) displayed on either side of
the truck cab or tank. No vehicle without having such decal affixed shall be
permitted to discharge waste at the waste management services wastewater
treatment facilities. Such decals must bear the business name of the waste
hauler. Such decals shall not be transferred from one vehicle to another. (Ord.
4927, 11-3-2008)
4-3E-9: DISPLAY OF PERMIT:
The permit, or a copy of the original, containing the authorized signature of
the administrator, must be available when discharging waste loads at the waste
management services wastewater treatment facilities. No person shall be allowed
to discharge waste unless such permit is available for inspection at the time
of such discharge. (Ord. 4927, 11-3-2008)
4-3E-10: HOURS OF OPERATION:
Liquid wastes will be accepted at the disposal station between the hours of
eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. through two o'clock (2:00) P.M. Monday through
Friday. Weekend and holiday hauling will not be accepted. Emergency hauling
outside the normal working times will be accepted only upon approval of the
administrator which approval must be obtained at least twenty four (24) hours
prior to the projected hauling time. A surcharge for after hours hauling will
be assessed to compensate for overtime hours worked by city personnel. (Ord.
4927, 11-3-2008)
4-3E-11: DISPOSAL STATION:
   A.   Waste haulers shall dispose of liquid waste permitted to be disposed of
pursuant to a permit issued under the provisions of this article only at the
disposal station (septic hauler disposal pad at 3505 Easton Avenue, Waterloo,
Iowa), and only during the hours of operation. Waste not regulated by this
chapter shall be disposed of according to the rules and regulations for land
application, 567 Iowa administrative code 121.3(455B)(1)a through m or land
filled at an approved landfill site and otherwise in accordance with all
applicable federal, state and local statutes, rules and regulations.
   B.   Waste haulers shall maintain the designated dump site at the disposal
station in a clean, orderly condition so as to avoid noxious odors and
unsanitary conditions. The hauler must satisfactorily clean up any spillage,
which occurs during discharge of hauled wastes.
   C.   A representative sample shall be taken by the hauler from each load
discharged at the plant and given to the city employee present at the time of
discharge. (Ord. 4927, 11-3-2008)
4-3E-12: IDENTIFICATION OF SOURCE; MANIFEST:
   A.   Waste haulers must provide documentation of the nature and origin of
wastes delivered to the disposal station at the time of delivery. Such
information shall be provided on a manifest form provided by the administrator
and shall be presented to a city staff member at the disposal station prior to
discharge of the waste load. A manifest form must be completed for each load
discharged. The manifest shall include:
      1.   The name, address and phone number of the waste generator;
      2.   The type of waste collected;
      3.   The approximate volume of the load.
   B.   The administrator shall have the right to verify the source, chemical
nature and volume of the material prior to disposal; including the right to
sample and make chemical analysis thereof.
If analysis of the hauled waste is needed, the fees for the actual cost of
performing such testing by the city or as billed by an outside private testing
laboratory shall be invoiced to the waste hauler who shall pay the same.
   C.   If the material is of a commercial or industrial origin, the waste
hauler shall obtain approval for disposal of the waste from the administrator
prior to loading the waste for delivery to the disposal station. (Ord. 4927,
11-3-2008)
4-3E-13: MIXING WASTES:
Wastes from residential and nonresidential sources shall not be mixed. Wastes
from an industrial/commercial source shall not be mixed with wastes of any type
from another location. Portable toilets may be mixed with similar wastes from
different locations as long as each source is identified in the waste manifest.
Grease trap waste may only be mixed with other similar grease trap loads as
long as each source is identified in the waste manifest form. Residential
wastes from several sources may be mixed as long as each source is identified
in the waste manifest. (Ord. 4927, 11-3-2008)
4-3E-14: WASTE LOAD LIMITS:
Waste loads hauled from commercial or industrial sources must meet all
applicable federal, state and local pretreatment standards and requirements
including categorical standards developed for the waste generator's industrial
category. The administrator prior to delivery to the disposal station must
approve loads from commercial or industrial sources. The city will routinely
refuse to accept hauled wastes that can be land applied without additional
treatment. All residential septic tank wastes that originate within the
corporate city limits of the city are acceptable. Waste loads must not:
   A.   Be a hazardous waste as defined in 40 CFR part 261 of the federal
register, as amended;
   B.   Originate from a waste source outside the corporate city limits of the
city. (Ord. 4927, 11-3-2008)
4-3E-15: SAND TRAP WASTES:
Wastes from sand traps, such as those located in car, truck and trailer washes,
which primarily contain sand and dirt, shall not be accepted for disposal at
the disposal station or at any other city wastewater treatment facility. Such
wastes shall be land applied or land filled. The administrator, if a request is
made in writing, may approve acceptance of such material only if a suitable,
approved alternative can be determined. (Ord. 4927, 11-3-2008)
4-3E-16: MINERAL OIL AND GREASE TRAP WASTES:
   A.   Wastes from mineral oil and grease traps, such as those located in
vehicle maintenance facilities, shall not be accepted for disposal at the
disposal station or any other city wastewater treatment facility. (Ord. 4927,
11-3-2008)
4-3E-17: REJECTION OF WASTE LOADS:
The administrator, or his/her designee, may reject any waste load delivered to
the disposal station for disposal. The disposal station attendant, according to
guidelines established by the administrator, may reject disposal of waste
loads. In the event a waste load is rejected, the waste hauler shall provide a
signed document to the administrator stating the location, date and time the
rejected load was disposed of within five (5) calendar days after the waste
hauler picked up the rejected load. Waste loads may be rejected for, but not
limited to, the following reasons:
   A.   Suspension or revocation of permit;
   B.   Failure to obtain a current city or state permit as required by city
ordinance or state law;
   C.   Failure to meet waste limits or to obtain preapproval for disposal of
commercial or industrial wastes as required under this article;
   D.   Failure to complete a waste hauler manifest form as required under this
article;
   E.   When a waste load exhibits unusual physical or chemical characteristics
or is from a source where pretreatment must be completed prior to disposal;
   F.   To protect public or private property from damage;
   G.   For violations of this article or any other ordinances or regulations
of the city, or of any statutes, rules or regulations of any other governmental
entity. (Ord. 4927, 11-3-2008)
4-3E-18: RATES:
   A.   All invoices for loads hauled to the disposal station shall be billed
at the first of each month. The invoice will indicate the total gallons
disposed of and the total amount due. Payments will be due by the first of the
following month. For accounts past due, a reminder invoice notice will be
mailed. If payments remain unpaid for thirty (30) days past the reminder notice
date, the waste hauling contractor's permit will be suspended until payment(s)
are received. Surcharges may be assessed for invoices over thirty (30) days
past due.
   B.   Fees for disposing of liquid waste at the disposal station are as
follows:
 
Gallons      Rate
0   - 500    $10.00
501 - 1,000  20.00
 
Each additional 1,000 gallons will be charged an additional $20.00.
Hauled waste loads disposed that originate from outside city jurisdiction will
also include a flat surcharge fee of twenty dollars ($20.00).
   C.   Analytical testing of the hauled waste will be on a "random and/or
warranted basis". At a minimum, each permitted hauler will have one load
randomly tested annually. Results of such testing would be provided to the
waste hauler.
Testing fees shall be as follows:
 
BOD            $17.50
Metal analysis 45.00
NH3N           17.50
Oil and grease 45.00
pH             7.50
TKN            17.50
TSS            12.50
 
   D.   A waste delivery manifest ticket will be completed at the time of
discharge and the waste hauler will be provided with a copy. (Ord. 4927, 11-3-
2008)
4-3E-19: OTHER REGULATIONS:
The regulations set forth in this article are in addition to, and not in
substitution of, any other applicable federal, state or local statutes, rules
and regulations regarding the subject matter of waste collection,
transportation and disposal. Any person holding a permit issued under this
article shall, at all times, abide by and remain in strict compliance with all
such other statutes, rules and regulations. (Ord. 4927, 11-3-2008)
CHAPTER 4
LITTER CONTROL
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: General Prohibition
4-4-3: Administration And Enforcement
4-4-4: Responsibility Of Owners And Agents
4-4-5: Receptacles And Containers (Rep. by Ord. 4482, 5-29-2001)
4-4-6: Storage Regulations
4-4-7: Junk Motor Vehicles
4-4-8: Parking Lots
4-4-9: Construction And Demolition Sites
4-4-10: Special Refuse Disposal Problems
4-4-11: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
4-4-12: Right Of Entry; Refuse Admittance (Rep. by Ord. 4540, 2-25-2002)
4-4-13: Notice Of Violation
4-4-14: Violation; Penalty
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
BUILDING MATERIALS: Any material such as lumber, brick, plaster, sheet metal or
other substances accumulated as a result of repairs or additions to existing
buildings, construction of new buildings or demolition of existing structures.
BULK CONTAINER: A metal container, made of watertight construction with doors
opening on two (2) sides and top, and constructed so that it can be emptied
mechanically by a specially equipped truck. Containers shall be kept covered at
all times. Upon the effective date of this chapter, all new bulk containers
shall meet these specifications.
BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT: Any retail, manufacturing, wholesale, institutional,
religious, governmental or other nonresidential establishment, or a "multiple
dwelling" as defined in section
4-3-1 of this title, at which garbage or trash may be generated.
BUSINESS TRASH: Any waste accumulation of dust, paper, cardboard, packing
materials, rags or other accumulations, other than garbage or household trash,
which is usually attendant to the operation of any business establishment.
CITY: The city of Waterloo.
DETACHABLE CONTAINER: A unit which is used for collecting, storing and
transporting building materials, business trash, industrial waste, hazardous
refuse, refuse or yard trash. Each unit shall be made of watertight
construction. The unit may or may not use an auxiliary stationary packing
mechanism for compaction of materials into the container and may be of the open
or enclosed variety. The distinguishing feature of the detachable container is
that it is picked up by a specially equipped truck and becomes an integral part
of the truck for transporting the waste materials to the disposal site.
ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY: The Black Hawk County health department and code
enforcement officers.
GARBAGE: All solid and semisolid, putrescible animal, grain, fruit, or
vegetable wastes resulting from the handling, preparing, cooking, storing,
serving, and consuming of food or of material intended for use as food.
LITTER: Garbage, refuse, waste materials or any other improperly discarded,
used or unconsumed substance, including, but not limited to, tin cans, paper
products, ashes, rags and the like.
LOADING AND UNLOADING AREA: Any land dock or space or area used by any moving
vehicle for the purpose of receiving for shipment or transportation goods,
wares and commodities.
REFUSE: Putrescible and nonputrescible solid and semisolid wastes, including,
but not limited to, "garbage" or "yard waste" as defined in this section,
including, but not limited to, trash, rubbish, paper, cardboard, wood that is
not yard waste, metal, glass, ashes, incinerator ash, street cleanings, market
and industrial solid wastes, and building materials.
YARD WASTE: Vegetative wastes resulting from the care and maintenance of
residential yards, flowerbeds, and gardens, including, but not limited to,
grass clippings, leaves, tree limbs, bark, garden waste, brush and small twigs,
and branches not exceeding two and one-half inches (21/2") in diameter and
three and one-half feet (31/2') in length. Yard waste shall not include the
following:
   A.   Tree stumps, tree roots, trunks, logs, and branches that are more than
two and one-half inches (21/2") in diameter or three and one-half feet (31/2')
in length.
   B.   Material meeting the definition of "garbage" or "refuse" as provided in
this section.
   C.   Flower and decorative products manufactured or fabricated, or the waste
byproducts incidental to their manufacture or fabrication, which include
organic materials and other nonorganic wastes which are not practically
separable. Examples of this exemption include, but are not limited to, things
such as flower arrangements, decorated potted plants, wreaths, bouquets,
garlands, and small bedding flats.
   D.   Metal, plastic, rock, dirt, wire, fencing, weed barriers or other
underlayment, bordering materials, stone, brick, masonry, or other inorganic
material. (Ord. 4829, 8-14-2006; amd. Ord. 4943, 6-15-2009; Ord. 5319, 11-23-
2015)
4-4-2: GENERAL PROHIBITION:
It shall be unlawful for any person who, unless otherwise provided by law, or
the context states otherwise, shall mean an individual, corporation, limited
liability company, government or governmental subdivision or agency, business
trust, estate, trust, partnership or association, or any other legal entity, to
trespass on the rights of another through the neglect of property by causing or
allowing litter, garbage or refuse to remain on the property, or to discard,
abandon or cause such on public property or another's private property. (Ord.
4034, 8-22-1994)
4-4-3: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcing Agency: The administration and enforcement of the provisions
of this chapter shall be the duty of the code enforcement officers. (Ord. 4443,
11-6-2000)
   B.   Community Improvement Division: (Rep. by Ord. 4482, 5-29-2001)
   C.   Administrative Order: Whenever the code enforcement officer determines
that a public health nuisance exists which requires immediate action to protect
the public health, said official may issue an order citing the existence of the
public health nuisance and require that action be taken as he deems necessary.
The action required by said official shall depend upon, but not be limited to,
the nature of the condition, the danger to the public health which the
condition presents, the condition or deterioration of the premises or the time
reasonably necessary to take the required action. If the owner or occupant does
not comply with the order within the time frame specified in said order, said
official may authorize the taking of the action specified in the order. Any
costs incurred in abating the public health nuisance may be assessed to the
owner of the property personally, to the property, or both. This remedy does
not preclude the issuing of a citation or the applicability of section
4-4-14 of this chapter for a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 4443, 11-6-2000)
4-4-4: RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNERS AND AGENTS:
The owners, agents, tenants or lessees of all residential units and commercial
establishments shall be jointly and severally responsible for compliance with
this chapter.
   A.   Sidewalks, Alleys And Rights Of Way: All owners and occupants of
property shall maintain their property in a clean and litter free manner,
including sidewalks, grass strips, one-half (1/2) of alleys, curbs or rights of
way up to the edge of the pavement of any public street.
   B.   Sweeping Into Sidewalks Or Streets: No person shall sweep into or
deposit in any street or sidewalk the accumulation of litter from any building
or property.
   C.   Vehicle Contents: No person shall cause or allow to exist within a
licensed or unlicensed vehicle of any type an accumulation of litter, garbage
or other refuse that constitutes a public health nuisance, except for that
portion of a vehicle that is specifically designed for the temporary holding of
such materials. (Ord. 5286, 6-1-2015)
4-4-5: RECEPTACLES AND CONTAINERS:
(Rep. by Ord. 4482, 5-29-2001)
4-4-6: STORAGE REGULATIONS:
   A.   General: All accumulations of refuse and trash shall be stored or
placed for collection in accordance with the following provisions:
      1.   Public Streets And Private Property: No person shall place any
refuse or trash in any street, median strip, alley or other public place of
travel, nor upon any private property except as stated herein.
      2.   Blockage Of Storm Drains: No person shall place any refuse, trash,
refuse receptacles or containers on any storm drain or so close thereto as to
be drawn by the elements into same. (Ord. 2958, 3-17-1978)
      3.   Unauthorized Accumulations: Any unauthorized accumulation of
garbage, refuse or yard waste on any lot, property, premises, public street,
alley or other public or private place is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance and is prohibited. Failure of the owner or occupant to remove and
correct any such unauthorized accumulation of refuse shall be deemed a
violation of this chapter. (Ord. 4034, 8-22-1994)
      4.   Junk: It shall be unlawful for any person to place or leave outside
any building or dwelling any dilapidated furniture, appliance, machinery,
equipment, building material or other item which is either in a wholly or
partially rusted, wrecked, junked, dismantled or inoperative condition, and
which is not completely enclosed within a building or dwelling. Any such item
or items which remain on the property of the occupant for a period of ten (10)
days after notice of violation of this subsection shall be presumed to be
abandoned and subject to being removed from the property by the city without
further notice. This does not preclude the code enforcement officer from
granting an extension to abate the violation after giving consideration to the
totality of the circumstances, including, but not limited to, the weather,
feasibility of abatement within ten (10) days of the notice, any past dealings
with the violator and the type of items involved in the violation. This shall
not apply to authorized junk dealers or establishments engaged in the repair,
rebuilding, reconditioning or salvaging of equipment. (Ord. 4443, 11-6-2000)
      5.   Appliances: It shall be unlawful for any person to leave outside any
building in a place accessible to children any appliance, refrigerator or other
container of any kind which has an airtight snap lock or similar device,
without first removing the lock or door from said appliance, refrigerator or
container. This provision shall not apply to any appliance, refrigerator or
container which has been placed on or adjacent to the rear of the building and
is crated, strapped or locked to such an extent that it is impossible for a
child to obtain access to any airtight compartment thereof.
   B.   Business Establishments: All business establishments shall store their
refuse in containers as specified herein so as to eliminate wind driven debris
and unsightly litter in and about their establishments. Approved methods of
containerization include refuse receptacles, bulk containers and detachable
containers. The number of containers necessary for each business establishment
shall be as required to maintain clean, neat, sanitary premises as directed by
the health department. (Ord. 2958, 3-27-1978)
4-4-7: JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES:
   A.   Definitions:
ACTIVELY RESTORED: A vehicle is being actively restored when the owner of the
vehicle or premises on which the vehicle is located has, within the last sixty
(60) days, spent at least ten (10) hours of labor in the repairing, rebuilding
or reconstruction of the motor vehicle for the purpose of restoring it to
running condition. The burden shall be on the owner to prove that it is being
actively restored, and such proof may include receipts for the purchase of
parts and supplies during the last sixty (60) days, which have been or are
being installed in the vehicle.
CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: The duly authorized person charged with enforcing the
provisions of this chapter and this code, as designated by superintendent of
waste management services.
ENCLOSED BUILDING: Any structure or portion thereof built for the enclosure of
property containing a roof and having exterior walls of the structure or
portion thereof constructed in such a manner as to obscure from any street or
adjacent property the contents thereof.
JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE: Any unlicensed motor vehicle stored within the corporate
limits of the city, and/or which has any of the following characteristics:
      1.   The vehicle has become the habitat of rats, mice, snakes or any
other vermin or insects.
      2.   The vehicle lacks an engine or one or more wheels or tires or other
structural parts which render said motor vehicle totally inoperable or unable
to move under its own power.
      3.   The vehicle, because of its defective or obsolete condition, in any
other way constitutes a threat to the public health or safety.
SPECIAL INTEREST VEHICLE: Any vehicle, other than a utility trailer, commercial
vehicle, or recreational vehicle, which has been designed for, or modified for,
personal hobbies such as track racing, off road driving or other similar
activities, and which cannot be licensed for highway use.
UNLICENSED VEHICLE: Any vehicle that is required to be licensed if it is
operated on a public street or highway, but which is not displaying a valid and
current license. For the purposes of this chapter, a valid current license
shall not be required of a vehicle that is stored in a fully enclosed
structure. Vehicles registered with the treasurer's office as being "in
storage" shall not constitute a valid and current license and any such vehicle
must be stored in a fully enclosed structure, except as provided for a vehicle
being actively restored.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which a person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway or street, excepting devices moved by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, and shall include,
without limitation, a motor vehicle, automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle,
tractor, buggy, wagon, farm machinery or any combination thereof.
   B.   Nuisance Declared: Except as hereinafter provided, it is hereby
declared that the unlawful storage of a junk motor vehicle upon either public
or private property within the corporate limits of the city constitutes a
threat to the health and safety of the citizens and is a nuisance. If any junk
motor vehicle is unlawfully stored upon private property in violation hereof,
the owner of said vehicle and the owner of the property shall be liable for
said violation.
   C.   Notice Of Violation: Upon discovery of any junk motor vehicle stored
upon private property within the corporate limits of the city, the code
enforcement officer shall notify the owner of the junk motor vehicle, all
lienholders, if they can be identified, and the owner of the property by one of
the following methods: 1) by delivering a copy of the notice to the individual
personally; or 2) by serving, at the individual's dwelling house or usual place
of abode, any person residing therein who is at least eighteen (18) years old;
or 3) by serving the individual's spouse at a place other than the individual's
dwelling house or usual place of abode; or 4) by sending a copy thereof by
certified mail, return receipt requested; or 5) by sending a copy thereof by
first class mail to the last known address of the recipient and by posting a
copy thereof in a conspicuous place at the subject property. If mailed, then
notice shall be deemed given when mailed. If notice by certified mail is
returned undelivered by the U.S. post office, action to abate the nuisance
shall be continued to a date not less than ten (10) days from the date the
notice is returned. This notice shall contain the following information:
      1.   That the junk motor vehicle constitutes a nuisance under the
provisions of this section;
      2.   A description, to the extent possible, of the year, make, model,
color and location of the vehicle;
      3.   That the owner of the junk motor vehicle and/or property owner must
remove the junk motor vehicle or correct the violation in accordance with this
section;
      4.   That failure to comply with the provisions of this section within
ten (10) days from the date of mailing of notice, the owner of the junk motor
vehicle and the property owner shall be liable for the violation;
      5.   That the junk motor vehicle will be removed by the city and
impounded at the owner's expense;
      6.   That if the junk motor vehicle is not redeemed within thirty (30)
days after notice and impoundment, and no hearing is requested pursuant to the
provisions of subsection H of this section, the owner of the junk motor
vehicle, the property owner and the lienholders shall be deemed to have
abandoned the vehicle and shall no longer have any right, title, claim or
interest in or to the junk motor vehicle; and
      7.   That the persons to whom the notices are directed may request a
hearing pursuant to the provision of subsection H of this section.
   D.   Abatement: If the owner of the vehicle or the owner of the property
upon which the junk motor vehicle is located fails to remove or repair the
vehicle in accordance with the terms of the provisions of this section, the
code enforcement officer shall abate such nuisance by causing the junk motor
vehicle to be removed and impounded and, unless the vehicle is redeemed, sold
or disposed of as specified herein, and the cost of abatement shall be charged
to the owner of the junk motor vehicle and/or the owner of the property.
   E.   Redemption Of Impounded Vehicle; Fees: Within thirty (30) days after
the impoundment of any junk motor vehicle under this section, the owner thereof
may appear and claim the same on proof of ownership and payment of an
impoundment fee, and towing and storage charges, at which time the vehicle
shall be released. If at the end of thirty (30) days, no owner claims the junk
motor vehicle in the manner required by this subsection, the owner of the junk
motor vehicle shall be deemed to have abandoned the vehicle and shall no longer
have any right, title, claim or interest in or to the junk motor vehicle.
During said period of impoundment, the impoundment facility upon which the junk
motor vehicle is being stored shall be responsible for the vehicle.
   F.   Duty Of Owner To Remove Or Repair: The owner of a junk motor vehicle or
property owner who violates the provisions of this section shall, within ten
(10) days after receipt of the notice of violation, remove the junk motor
vehicle to one of the areas provided in subsection G of this section, or repair
the defects which caused such vehicle to violate the provisions of this
section.
If a hearing is requested under subsection H of this section, the duty of the
owner to remove or repair the junk vehicle shall be suspended pending the
decision.
   G.   Exceptions: The terms and provisions of this section shall not apply
to:
      1.   Any person or any agent thereof that is duly licensed by the city,
as a salvage yard operator in full compliance with all of the ordinances of the
city, and the laws of the state.
      2.   Any junk motor vehicle that is stored within an "enclosed building"
as defined in this section.
      3.   Businesses or operators of businesses engaged in the towing,
repairing or storing of junk motor vehicles, motor vehicles, construction or
heavy industrial equipment or machinery, if the business is otherwise in full
compliance with all ordinances of the city and the laws of the state.
      4.   Any junk vehicle that is either an antique (1972 model year or
older) that is being actively restored or an operable special interest vehicle,
or a special interest vehicle that is being actively restored, and in any case
when stored in a rear or side yard and fully enclosed behind a solid fence at
least six feet (6') in height that completely obscures a view of the vehicle
from adjacent public or private property. None of the exceptions set forth in
this subsection shall exempt a junk vehicle stored on a trailer, regardless of
whether the trailer is licensed and operable, unless stored within an enclosed
building.
   H.   Hearing:
      1.   Any person ordered to abate a nuisance or condition may request a
hearing before a committee of the city council appointed by the mayor, or an
official of the city designated by the committee of the city council, to
determine whether a nuisance or prohibited condition exists.
      2.   A request for a hearing shall be made in writing and filed with the
city clerk and the code enforcement officer within the ten (10) day limit, or:
         a.   The right to a hearing shall be considered waived, and
         b.   It will be conclusively presumed that the nuisance or prohibited
condition exists and it must be abated as ordered.
      3.   The city clerk shall, within fifteen (15) days after the filing of
the request for hearing, fix the time and place of hearing, which shall be
within thirty (30) days of the filing of the request.
      4.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the committee of the city council,
or its designee, shall render a written decision as to whether a nuisance
exists. If a nuisance is found to exist, it shall be ordered abated within a
reasonable time.
      5.   This decision shall be final.
   I.   Prima Facie Presumption: In any proceeding charging a violation of this
section, proof that the particular vehicle described in the information was
stored in violation of this section, together with proof that the defendant
named in the information was the registered owner of the vehicle or the owner
of the property on which said junk motor vehicle was unlawfully stored at the
time of the alleged violation, shall constitute prima facie presumption that
the registered vehicle owner and/or the property owner was the person violating
this section or allowing the violation to occur.
   J.   Penalty: Any person violating this section or any provisions thereof,
or who fails to comply with any order of the code enforcement officer or who
interferes with or obstructs the code enforcement officer in his investigation
shall be guilty of a simple misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof may be
fined as provided in the general penalty in section
1-3-1 of this code. Each day that a violation occurs constitutes a separate
offense.
   K.   Municipal Infraction: Violation of the provisions of this section may
also be considered a municipal infraction, as provided in section
1-3-2 of this code. (Ord. 5286, 6-1-2015)
4-4-8: PARKING LOTS:
   A.   Obligation To Furnish Receptacles: All parking lots and establishments
with parking lots shall provide refuse receptacles distributed within the
parking area. The health department shall have the authority to determine the
number of receptacles necessary to provide proper containerization. It shall be
the responsibility of the owner or the manager of the parking lot to collect
the refuse and trash deposited in such containers so as to avoid spillage and
overflow and store this material in an approved location as hereinabove
defined.
   B.   Obligation To Use Receptacles: It shall be the obligation of all
persons using parking areas to use such refuse receptacles or containers as
hereinabove provided for the purposes intended; and it shall be unlawful for
any person or persons to dump, scatter or throw upon any such parking lot any
refuse, garbage or trash of any kind. (Ord. 4034, 8-22-1994)
4-4-9: CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION SITES:
All construction and demolition contractors shall provide such on site refuse
receptacles, bulk containers or detachable containers for loose debris, paper,
building material waste, scrap building materials and other trash produced by
those working on the site as the health department and the building inspection
department shall determine necessary to provide proper containerization. Any
construction or demolition site shall be kept in reasonably clean and litter
free condition. Dirt, mud, construction materials or other debris deposited
upon any public or private property as a result of construction or demolition
shall be immediately removed by the contractor. In addition to any other
remedy, the departments of health and building inspection are hereby empowered
to issue a civil citation to a violator of this section, and in said citation
shall assess a penalty of fifty dollars ($50.00). Each day during which such
violation shall occur shall constitute a separate and distinct offense. (Ord.
4034, 8-22-1994)
4-4-10: SPECIAL REFUSE DISPOSAL PROBLEMS:
   A.   Contagious Disease Refuse: The removal of clothing, bedding or other
refuse from homes or other places where highly infectious diseases have
prevailed shall be performed under the supervision and direction of a licensed
physician and health authority. Such refuse shall not be placed in containers
for city collection.
   B.   Hypodermic Instruments: No person shall dispose of or discard any
hypodermic syringe, hypodermic needle or any instrument or device for making
hypodermic injections before first breaking, disassembling, destroying or
otherwise rendering inoperable and incapable of reuse such hypodermic syringe,
needle, instrument or device, and without safeguarding the disposal thereof by
wrapping or securing same in a suitable manner so as to avoid the possibility
of causing injury to the collection personnel. (Ord. 4034, 8-22-1994)
   C.   Ashes: Ashes that are to be hauled by the city must have been wetted
and cool to the touch prior to collection. Ashes shall be placed in suitable
containers of such size and weight that they can be handled by one person.
   D.   Cardboard Boxes And Cartons: Prior to depositing refuse for collection
in authorized containers or receptacles or in commercial containers, the person
disposing of any such boxes or cartons or the person in charge of the premises
shall collapse all cardboard boxes, cartons and crates. (Ord. 2958, 3-27-1978)
4-4-11: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Scattering of Refuse and Litter: It shall be unlawful for any person
to:
      1.   Scatter refuse, garbage or yard waste about or litter any public or
private street or area or place;
      2.   Cast, throw, place, sweep or deposit anywhere within the city any
refuse, trash, garbage or yard waste in such a manner that it may be carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk, alley, sewer, parkway or
other public place or into any occupied or unoccupied premises within the city;
      3.   Throw or deposit any refuse, garbage, yard waste or debris in any
stream or body of water;
      4.   Deposit Excluded Waste, including Styrofoam, as defined in Title 4,
Chapter 3, Section 1 of the Waterloo City Code (including regulations thereof),
in or near a drop off recycling site, or in any public or private street or
area or place.
Any person violating the provisions of this subsection A may be subject to a
fine of up to five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a first offense, and up to
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for any subsequent offense.
   B.   Sunken Receptacles: Refuse contained in sunken or underground
receptacles will not be collected by the city.(Ord. 4342, 2-22-1999; amd. Ord.
5623, 11-1-2021)
4-4-12: RIGHT OF ENTRY; REFUSE ADMITTANCE:
(Rep. by Ord. 4540, 2-25-2002)
4-4-13: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
Notice of a violation of this chapter or to abate the violation may be by
personal service, certified mail, or by a dated and signed placard which is
posted in a conspicuous place on each parcel of property found to be in
violation of this chapter, stating that the property is in violation of this
chapter and that failure of the owner or occupant to abate the violation within
ten (10) days of the date on the placard may result in the city's abating the
violation and assessing the costs and any administrative fees to the property,
to the property owner, or both. In addition to the placard, a notice of
violation shall be sent by regular mail to the owner of record as maintained by
the county assessor. The ten (10) day abatement period shall be from the date
of personal service, date of receipt of the certified mail, or date of posting
of the placard. If the notice concerns a violation of subsection
4-4-4C of this chapter, the city may abate the violation by impounding the
vehicle, and the owner may recover the vehicle upon satisfactory cleanout of
the vehicle by the owner and payment of all applicable fines, fees and costs of
towing and impoundment. If no owner claims the vehicle within thirty (30) days
after notice and impoundment, the owner shall no longer have any right, title,
claim or interest in or to the vehicle and its contents, and the vehicle may be
disposed of as provided by Iowa law governing abandoned vehicles, currently
codified at section 321.89 of the code of Iowa. During the period of
impoundment, the impoundment facility at which the vehicle is being stored
shall be responsible for the vehicle. (Ord. 5286, 6-1-2015)
4-4-14: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating or failing, refusing or neglecting to comply with any
provisions or requirements of any section or subsection of this chapter, with
the exception of subsection 4-4-11A of this chapter, in addition to any other
remedy, shall be guilty of a municipal infraction and subject to the fines set
out in subsection
1-3-2C of this code, in addition to all of the remedies available under Iowa
Code 364.22, including, but not limited to, ordering the defendant to abate or
cease the violation, authorizing the city to abate or correct the violation and
ordering that the city's costs for abatement or correction of the violation be
entered as a personal judgment against the defendant and/or assessed against
the property where the violation occurred, or both. (Ord. 4423, 6-26-2000; amd.
2001 Code)
CHAPTER 5
NOISE CONTROL
SECTION:
4-5-1: Short Title And Scope
4-5-2: Definitions
4-5-3: Noise Level Tables
4-5-4: Prohibited Acts
4-5-5: Exceptions And Variances
4-5-6: Motor Vehicle Maximum Sound Levels
4-5-7: Violation
4-5-8: Abatement Orders
4-5-9: Injunction
4-5-1: SHORT TITLE AND SCOPE:
This chapter shall be known as the NOISE CONTROL ORDINANCE, and shall apply to
the control of all sound and vibration originating within the limits of the
city. (Ord. 3094, 8-4-1980)
4-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
All terminology used in this chapter, not defined below, shall be in
conformance with the applicable publications of the American National Standards
Institute (ANSI) or its successor body:
A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL: The sound pressure level in decibels as measured on a
sound level meter using the A-weighted network. The level so read is designated
dB(A) or dBA.
COMMERCIAL AREA: A commercial area as defined in Waterloo Zoning Ordinance
2479, as amended.
DECIBEL (dB): A unit for measuring the volume of a sound equal to twenty (20)
times the logarithm to the base ten (10) of the ratio of the pressure of the
sound measured to the reference pressure, which is twenty (20) micropascals (20
micronewtons per square meter).
GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING (GVWR): The value specified by the manufacturer as
the recommended maximum loaded weight of a single motor vehicle. In cases where
trailers and tractors are separable the gross combination weight rating (GCWR),
which is the value specified by the manufacturer as the recommended maximum
loaded weight of the combination vehicle, shall be used.
INDUSTRIAL AREA: An industrial area as defined in Waterloo Zoning Ordinance
2479, as amended.
MOTOR BOAT: Any vessel which operates on water and which is propelled by a
motor, including, but not limited to, boats, barges, amphibious craft, water
ski towing devices and hovercraft.
MOTOR CARRIER VEHICLE ENGAGED IN INTERSTATE COMMERCE: Any vehicle for which
regulations apply pursuant to section 18 of the Federal Noise Control Act of
1972 (P.L. 92-574) as amended, pertaining to motor carriers engaged in
interstate commerce.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any vehicle which is propelled or drawn on land by a motor, such
as, but not limited to, passenger cars, trucks, truck-trailers, semitrailers,
amphibious craft of land, dune buggies or racing vehicles, but not including
motorcycles.
MOTORCYCLES: An unenclosed motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the
operator and two (2) or three (3) wheels in contact with the ground, including,
but not limited to, motor scooters, minibikes and mopeds.
MUFFLER OR SOUND DISSIPATIVE DEVICE: A device for abating the sound of escaping
gases of an internal combustion engine.
NOISE: An oscillation in the pressure, particle displacement velocity or other
physical parameter, in a medium with internal forces that causes compression
and rarefaction of that medium. The description of noise may include any
characteristic of such noise, including duration, intensity and frequency.
NOISE DISTURBANCE: Any sound which endangers or injures the safety or health of
humans or animals, or annoys or disturbs a reasonable person of normal
sensitivities, or endangers or injures personal or real property.
NOISE LEVEL: The weighted sound pressure level obtained by the use of a sound
level meter and frequency weighting network, such as A, B or C as specified in
American National Standards Institute specifications for sound level meters
(ANSI SL. 4-1971, or the latest approved revision thereof). If the frequency
weighting employed is not indicated, the A-weighting shall apply. Refer to
Table I and Table II for maximum noise levels allowed within the city 1 .
NOISE LEVEL METER: An instrument which includes a microphone, amplifier,
network and output device used to measure pressure levels.
NOISE SENSITIVE ZONE: Any area designated by the city council as an area
requiring exceptional quiet.
PERSON: Any individual, association, partnership or corporation, and includes
any officer, employee, department, agency or instrumentality of a state or any
political subdivision of a state.
POWERED MODEL VEHICLE: Any self-propelled airborne, waterborne or landborne
plane, vessel or vehicle which is not designed to carry persons, including, but
not limited to, any model airplane, boat, car or rocket.
REAL PROPERTY BOUNDARY: An imaginary line along the ground surface and its
vertical extension, which separates the real property owned by one person from
that owned by another person, but not including intrabuilding real property
divisions.
RESIDENTIAL AREA: A residential area as defined in Waterloo Zoning Ordinance
2479, as amended.
VIBRATION: An oscillatory motion of solid bodies of deterministic or random
nature described by displacement, velocity or acceleration with respect to a
given reference point. (Ord. 3094, 8-4-1980)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  4-5-3  of this chapter.
4-5-3: NOISE LEVEL TABLES:
   TABLE I
 
Vehicle Class      45 mph Or Less Over 45 mph
Interstate                        
+ 10,000 lb. GCWR  86 dBA         90 dBA
Other                             
+ 10,000 lb. GCWR  86 dBA         90 dBA
Motorcycle         80 dBA         84 dBA
All other vehicles 74 dBA         80 dBA
 
All measurements in this table are maximum noise levels acceptable, and any
noise in excess of the dBAs in this table shall be considered a violation.
All measurements are made at a minimum measurement of twenty five feet (25')
from the curb.
All measurements are to be taken at least one hundred feet (100') from any
intersection.
   TABLE II
 
            Day           Night
    Zone (7:00 A.M.– (11:00 P.M.–
            11:00 P.M.)   7:00 A.M.)
Residential 80 dBA        55 dBA
Commercial  80 dBA        60 dBA
Industrial  82 dBA        75 dBA
 
All measurements in this table are maximum noise levels acceptable, and any
noise in excess of the dBAs in this table shall be considered a violation.
All measurements are to be taken at the nearest lot line but not less than
twenty five feet (25') from the noise source. (Ord. 3094, 8-4-1980)
4-5-4: PROHIBITED ACTS:
This chapter prohibits any noise in the city that is in excess of the noise
levels in Tables I and II set out in section
4-5-3 of this chapter, and further prohibits the following acts, and the
causing thereof, are declared to be in violation of this chapter:
   A.   Operating, playing or permitting the operation or playing of any radio,
television set, musical instrument or similar device which produces, reproduces
or amplifies sound:
      1.   In such a manner as to create a noise level (see Table II) at any
portion of real property boundary or within a noise sensitive zone; or
      2.   In such a manner as to create a noise level (see Table II) at twenty
five feet (25') from such device, when operated in or on a motor vehicle on a
public right of way or public space, or in a boat on public waters; or
      3.   In such a manner as to create a noise level (see Table II) to any
person other than the operator of the device, when operated by any passenger on
a common carrier.
   B.   Using or operating any loudspeaker, public address system or similar
device such that the sound therefrom creates a noise level (see Table II)
across a residential real property boundary or within a noise sensitive zone.
   C.   Offering for sale or selling anything by shouting or outcry in such a
manner as to create a noise level (see Table II) within any residential or
commercial area of the city, except by permit issued by the city according to
criteria set forth in section
4-5-5 of this chapter.
   D.   Loading, unloading, opening, closing or other handling of boxes,
crates, containers, building materials, garbage cans or similar objects in such
a manner as to create a noise level (see Table II) across a residential real
property boundary or within a noise sensitive zone.
   E.   Operating or permitting the operation of any tools or equipment used in
construction, drilling or demolition work weekdays between eleven o'clock (11:
00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. or at any time on Sundays or holidays,
such that the sound therefrom creates a noise level (see Table II) across a
residential real property boundary or within a noise sensitive zone. This
section shall not apply to the use of domestic power tools.
   F.   Repairing, rebuilding, modifying or testing any motor vehicle,
motorcycle or motorboat in such a manner as to create a noise level (see Table
II) across a residential real property boundary or within a noise sensitive
zone.
   G.   Operating, playing or permitting the operation or playing of any radio,
television, phonograph, drum, musical instrument, sound amplifier or similar
device which produces, reproduces or amplifies sound in any place of public
entertainment in such a manner as to create a noise level (see Table II).
   H.   Using explosives, firearms and similar devices without variance as set
out in section
 4-5-5 of this chapter.
   I.   Operating or permitting the operation of powered model vehicles so as
to create a noise level (see Table II) across a residential real property
boundary, or in a public space or within a noise sensitive zone.
   J.   Operating or permitting the operation of any device that creates
vibration which is above the vibration perception threshold of an individual at
or beyond the property of the source, if on private property or twenty five
feet (25') from the source, if on a public space or public right of way. For
the purposes of this section "vibration perception threshold" means the minimum
ground or structure-borne vibrational motion necessary to cause a normal person
to be aware of the vibration by such direct means as, but not limited to,
sensation by touch or visual observation of moving objects.
   K.   Sounding or permitting the sounding of any electronically amplified
signal from any stationary bell, chime, siren, whistle or similar device
intended primarily for nonemergency purposes, from any place, for more than
five (5) minutes in any hourly period in such a manner as to create a noise
level (see Table II). Devices used in conjunction with places of religious
worship shall be exempt from the operation of this provision.
   L.   The intentional sounding or permitting the sounding outdoors of any
fire, burglar or civil defense alarm, siren, whistle or similar stationary
emergency signaling device, except for emergency purposes or for testing, in
such a manner as to create a noise level (see Table II). Testing of a
stationary emergency signaling device shall occur at the same time of day each
time such a test is performed, but not before seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and not
after eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. Any such testing shall use only the minimum
cycle test time. In no case shall such test time exceed three (3) minutes.
Testing of the complete emergency signaling system, including the functioning
of the signaling device and the personnel response to the signaling device,
shall not occur before nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after three o'clock (3:00)
P.M. The three (3) minute time limit shall not apply to such complete system
testings.
Sounding or permitting the sounding of any exterior burglar (or fire) alarm or
any motor vehicle burglar alarm unless such alarm is automatically terminated
within three (3) minutes of activation.
   M.   Operating or permitting the operation of any motorboat in any lake,
river, stream or other waterway in such a manner as to create a noise level
(see Table II).
   N.   Creating or causing the creation of any sound within any noise
sensitive zone designated by the city council and posted as a noise sensitive
zone. The city council may set different decibel limits than are indicated in
Table II within a designated noise sensitive zone.
   O.   Operating or permitting the operation of any mechanically powered saw,
sander, drill, grinder, lawn or garden tool, snowblower or similar device in
residential areas in such a manner as to create a noise level (see Table II)
across a residential real property boundary. (Ord. 3094, 8-4-1980; amd. Ord.
4108, 7-10-1995)
4-5-5: EXCEPTIONS AND VARIANCES:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the emission of sound
for the purpose of alerting persons to the existence of an emergency, or the
emission of sound in the performance of emergency work.
   B.   The mayor, or the mayor's designee(s), shall have the authority,
consistent with this section, to grant special variances:
      1.   Any person seeking a special variance pursuant to this section shall
file an application with the mayor. The application shall contain information
determined by the mayor. The application shall also contain information which
demonstrates that bringing the source of sound or activity for which the
special variance is sought into compliance with this chapter would constitute
an unreasonable hardship on the applicant, on the community, or on other
persons. Any individual who claims to be adversely affected by allowance of the
special variance may file a statement with the mayor containing information to
support the claim. If the mayor finds that a sufficient controversy exists
regarding such application, a public hearing may be held with the city council.
      2.   In determining whether to grant or deny the application, the mayor
shall balance the hardship to the applicant, the community, and other persons
of not granting the special variance against the adverse impact on the health,
safety and welfare of persons affected, the adverse impact on property
affected, and any other adverse impacts of granting the special variance. The
police department shall review the application to determine whether granting
such special variance creates an adverse impact on public safety. Applicants
for special variances and persons contesting special variances may be required
to submit any information the city council may reasonably require.
      3.   Special variances shall be granted by notice to the applicant
containing all necessary conditions, including a time limit on the permitted
activity. The special variance shall not become effective until all conditions
are agreed to by the applicant. Noncompliance with any condition of the special
variance shall terminate it and subject the person holding it to those
provisions of this chapter regulating the source of sound or activity for which
the special variance was granted.
      4.   Application for extension of time limits specified in special
variances or for modification of other substantial conditions shall be treated
like applications for initial special variances under this subsection B.
      5.   The mayor may issue guidelines defining the procedures to be
followed in applying for a special variance and the criteria to be considered
in deciding whether to grant a special variance.
   C.   A person may appeal a decision of the mayor to deny an application by
filing a written appeal to the office of the city clerk within fourteen (14)
days of the date of the decision. An administrative fee of fifty dollars
($50.00) shall be paid at the time the appeal is filed. Failure to file the
appeal and pay the administrative fee shall constitute a waiver of the right to
a hearing, and the decision shall thereupon become final. If the written appeal
and administrative fee are filed in conformance with this section, a hearing
shall be scheduled. the city clerk shall cause a notice to be sent by ordinary
mail to the applicant or licensee at the address noted in the application. Said
notice shall state that a hearing has been set before the city council not less
than thirty (30) days from the date of the notice. The notice shall include the
reason and grounds for the hearing, the date and time of the hearing, and the
place where the hearing will be conducted.
   D.   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
      1.   The unamplified human voice;
      2.   Interstate railway locomotives and cars;
      3.   All agricultural activities; and
      4.   Airports and aircraft. (Ord. 3094, 8-4-1980; amd. Ord. 5692, 4-3-
2023)
4-5-6: MOTOR VEHICLE MAXIMUM SOUND LEVELS:
   A.   No person shall operate or cause to be operated a public or private
motor vehicle or motorcycle on a public right of way at any time in such a
manner as to create a noise level (see Table I) emitted by the motor vehicle or
motorcycle.
   B.   No person shall operate or cause to be operated any motor vehicle or
motorcycle not equipped with a muffler or other sound-dissipative device in
good working order and in constant operation. No person shall remove or render
inoperative, or cause to be removed or rendered inoperative, other than for
purposes of maintenance, repair or replacement, any muffler or sound-
dissipative device on a motor vehicle or motorcycle.
   C.   The sounding of any horn or other auditory signaling device on or in
any motor vehicle on any public right of way or public space in such a manner
as to create a noise level (see Table II), except as a warning of dangers
provided in the traffic code, is prohibited.
   D.   No person shall:
      1.   On or after two (2) years following the effective date of this
chapter, operate or permit the operation of the compacting mechanism of any
motor vehicle which compacts refuse and which creates, during the compacting
cycle, a noise level in excess of those set out in Table II.
      2.   Operate or permit the operation of the compacting mechanism of any
motor vehicle which compacts refuse in such a manner as to create a noise level
(see Table II) in a residential area or noise sensitive zone. For purposes of
this subsection "night" shall be eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. to six o'clock (6:
00) A.M.
      3.   Collect refuse with a refuse collection vehicle in such a manner as
to create a noise level (see Table II) in a residential area or noise sensitive
zone. For purposes of this subsection "night" shall be eleven o'clock (11:00)
P.M. to six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
   E.   No person shall operate or permit the operation of any motor vehicle
with a gross vehicle weight rating in excess of ten thousand (10,000) pounds or
any auxiliary equipment attached to such vehicle for a period longer than forty
five (45) minutes in any hour while such vehicle is stationary on a public
right of way or public space within one hundred fifty feet (150') of a
residential area or designated noise sensitive zone (see Table II).
   F.   No person shall operate or cause to be operated any recreational
motorized vehicle off a public right of way in such a manner that the noise
level emitted therefrom exceeds the limits set forth in Table II at a distance
of twenty five feet (25') or more from the path of the vehicle when operated on
a public space or at or across the boundary of private property when operated
on private property. This section shall apply to all recreational motorized
vehicles, whether or not duly licensed and registered, including, but not
limited to, commercial or noncommercial racing vehicles, motorcycles, go-carts,
snowmobiles, amphibious craft, campers and dune buggies, but not including
motorboats. Variances for motor vehicle racing events may be obtained according
to procedures and criteria as set forth in section
 4-5-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 3094, 8-4-1980)
4-5-7: VIOLATION:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a municipal infraction and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
as provided in subsection
1-3-2C of this code. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as an
offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder. (Ord. 3094, 8-4-1980; amd.
2001 Code)
4-5-8: ABATEMENT ORDERS:
Except as provided above and in lieu of issuing a notice of violation or
citation, the police officer or official responsible for enforcement of these
provisions may issue an order requiring compliance with this chapter. This
abatement order shall grant to the party a period of ten (10) days in which to
bring the violation into compliance with this chapter. Upon bringing the
violation into compliance, the official shall release the citation or notice of
violation. (Ord. 3094, 8-4-1980)
4-5-9: INJUNCTION:
As an additional remedy, the operation or maintenance of any device,
instrument, vehicle or machinery in violation of any provision hereof and which
causes discomfort or annoyance to reasonable persons of normal sensitivity or
which endangers the comfort, repose, health or peace of residents in the area
shall be deemed, and is hereby declared to be, a public nuisance and may be
subject to abatement summarily by a restraining order or injunction issued by a
court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 3094, 8-4-1980)
CHAPTER 6
AIR POLLUTION CONTROL
SECTION:
4-6-1: Definitions
4-6-2: Enforcement
4-6-3: Exemptions From Chapter
4-6-4: Standard For Measuring Air Pollution
4-6-5: Prohibited Conditions
4-6-6: Permits And Conformance Required
4-6-7: Inspections; Certificate And Fee
4-6-8: Duties Of Inspector
4-6-9: Hearings And Appeal
4-6-10: Penalties
4-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
CINDERS, SOOT, DUST, FLY ASH, NOXIOUS ACIDS, FUMES, GASES, ODORS: All matter
other than dense smoke formed as the result of combustion in quantities
sufficient to create an unclean, destructive, offensive or unhealthful
condition when emitted or allowed to escape in the air.
DENSE SMOKE: That smoke which has a density of No. 3 or greater, as established
by the Ringlemann Chart adopted and referred to in this chapter.
DUST: Gas-borne particles larger than one micron in mean diameter.
FUEL-BURNING EQUIPMENT: Any furnace, incinerator, refuse burning equipment,
boiler, apparatus, device, mechanism, stack or structure used in the process of
burning fuel or combustible material, whether stationary or mobile, excepting
cooking stoves, ranges, service meter heaters and room or space heaters that
use gas, kerosene or gasoline as fuel.
INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINE: Any engine in which combustion of a gasoline liquid
or pulverized solid fuel takes place within one or more cylinders.
OPEN FIRE: Any fire wherein the products of combustion are emitted into the
open air and are not directed through a stack or chimney.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, firm, association, syndicate, company,
trust, corporation, government corporation, department, bureau, agency or other
entity recognized by law, the subject of rights and duties.
RINGLEMANN CHART: That standard published by the U.S. Bureau of Mines with
instructions for use.
SMOKE: Small gas-borne particles consisting essentially of carbonaceous
material in sufficient number to be observable.
SOOT: Agglomerated particles consisting substantially of carbonaceous material.
STACK OR CHIMNEY: Flues, conduit or openings arranged for emitting gases into
the open air.
TECHNICAL ENGINEER: A person qualified by law to practice professional
engineering, or one having qualifications for full membership in the American
Society of Mechanical Engineers. (Ord. 1945, 7-14-1953)
4-6-2: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Air Pollution Inspector: For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of
this chapter, there shall be appointed by the city council an air pollution
inspector. He shall be qualified by education or experience to be thoroughly
familiar with the theory and practice of the construction and operation of
furnaces and combustion devices, and shall have had at least five (5) years
experience as a licensed stationary engineer or shall have had at least five
(5) years experience in the sale, resale, repair or installation of fuel-
burning equipment.
   B.   Advisory And Appeals Board:
      1.   The mayor, with the consent of the city council, shall appoint an
advisory and appeals board, consisting of five (5) members, three (3) of whom
shall be technical engineers, to serve for terms of four (4) years; excepting
that upon establishment of the board, shorter terms may be used to provide an
overlapping of terms. This board shall elect one of its own members to serve as
the chair of the board and to preside at board meetings. The members shall be
citizens of the city and shall not have any interest in the sale or control of
any smoke prevention equipment or apparatus which might be used to reduce the
emission of smoke, gases, dust, etc.
      2.   The advisory and appeals board shall decide all appeals properly
brought before it, and shall either affirm, modify or overrule the decisions of
the air pollution inspector which they may be called upon to review. On all
appeals taken to the board, appropriate hearings shall be held after due notice
thereof to the parties concerned. All pertinent papers in the files of the air
pollution inspector shall be made available to the board in each case.
      3.   The board shall act as advisor to the air pollution inspector and
shall consider, approve or veto such rules and regulations as may be presented
by the inspector. (Ord. 1945, 7-14-1953)
4-6-3: EXEMPTIONS FROM CHAPTER:
Private residences containing four (4) or less dwelling units are exempt from
the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 1945, 7-14-1953)
4-6-4: STANDARD FOR MEASURING AIR POLLUTION:
Any device used as an aid to grading the shade or appearance of smoke will be
based on the standard of the Ringlemann Chart, as now published and used by the
U.S. Bureau of Mines, which chart is hereby made a part of this chapter by
reference. (Ord. 1945, 7-14-1953)
4-6-5: PROHIBITED CONDITIONS:
   A.   Emission Of Dense Smoke: It shall be unlawful for any person to cause,
suffer or allow to be emitted into the open air from any fuel-burning
equipment, internal combustion engine, railroad locomotive, vehicle, premises
or open fire, smoke the shade or appearance of which is equal to or darker than
No. 3 of the Ringlemann Chart. Nothing contained herein shall be construed as
in any way limiting the city's power and authority to abate, in accordance with
the provisions of law, any nuisance which may result from the emission of light
smoke and gases which cannot be located or classified upon and by a Ringlemann
Chart. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to smoke, the shade or
appearance of which is equal to but not darker than No. 3 of the Ringlemann
Chart for a period or periods aggregating five (5) minutes in any thirty (30)
minutes, when building a new fire, cleaning flues or when breakdown occurs such
as to make it evident that the emission was not reasonably preventable.
   B.   Escape Of Cinders, Soot, Dust, Fly Ash, Noxious Gases, Fumes, Gases And
Odors: It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or cause the escape into
the open air of such quantities of cinders, soot, dust, fly ash, noxious gases,
fumes, gases and odors, in such place or manner as to be detrimental to the
public or to endanger the health, comfort and safety of the public, or in such
manner as to cause injury or damage to property or business. The escape of such
matter is declared to be a public nuisance and shall be abated in the manner
provided by law. (Ord. 1945, 7-14-1953)
4-6-6: PERMITS AND CONFORMANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Permits, Plans And Specifications: No new fuel burning plants nor
reconstruction, addition or alteration to any existing fuel burning plants for
producing power and heat, or either of them, nor refuse burning equipment, nor
any stack or furnace connected with such fuel or refuse burning equipment,
costing more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be installed, erected,
reconstructed, added to or altered in the city until plans and specifications
of the same have been filed by the owner, contractor, installer or other person
in the office of the inspector as being so designed that same can be managed
and operated to conform to the provisions of this chapter, and obtaining a
permit issued by the inspector for such installation, erection, reconstruction,
addition to or alteration. Such plans and specifications shall show all
provisions made for the purpose of securing complete combustion of the fuel to
be used and for the purpose of preventing smoke, and shall also contain a
statement of the type of fuel proposed to be used. The inspector shall, by
appropriate rules and regulations, require such information on the plans and
specifications of the foregoing as will enable him to make a determination of
whether such construction, reconstruction, repair, addition or alteration work
will conform to the requirements of this chapter or be in violation thereof. If
it appears that such proposed work will not be inconsistent with the purposes
of this chapter, the inspector shall issue the permit; otherwise, the permit
will be denied. Compliance with this section shall not be deemed to be in lieu
of compliance with other city requirements with respect to the construction or
repair of buildings, and all such other city requirements and regulations shall
be fully complied with.
   B.   Grace Period: Whenever it has adequately been demonstrated to the
inspector that compliance with the terms of this chapter cannot be effectively
and immediately made, the inspector shall have the authority to grant a
temporary permit for the continued operation of such noncomplying equipment,
but only in the event that the party has taken all necessary steps to secure
compliance with this chapter. Such temporary permit shall be issued for no
longer period than six (6) months, at the expiation of which period of time the
party holding such permit shall be deemed to be in violation of the provisions
of this chapter. The fees established in section
4-6-7 of this chapter shall not be applicable to the permits required by this
section. (Ord. 1945, 7-14-1953)
4-6-7: INSPECTIONS; CERTIFICATE AND FEE:
   A.   Annual Inspection; Certificate: The air pollution inspector shall make,
or cause to be made, annual inspections of each fuel consuming device in the
city to which this chapter applies, except those contained in or a part of four
(4) or less dwelling units within the city and except railroad locomotives, to
determine whether compliance is being had with the provisions of this chapter.
The inspector shall issue a certificate of inspection to the owner of each such
device so inspected, provided that it meets the standards established in this
chapter. Such certificate shall be authorization for the continued operation of
fuel consuming devices. Failure to possess a proper certificate of inspection
shall be considered to be a violation of this chapter; provided, however, that
all fuel consuming devices not inspected at the time of the passage of this
chapter are authorized to continue in operation until such time as the
inspector shall make his annual inspection of such device.
   B.   Fees: The fees to be charged by the city for annual inspections
required in this chapter shall be three dollars ($3.00) each inspection.
Hereafter, no charge for an initial inspection shall be charged with the
issuance of a building permit. (Ord. 1945, 7-14-1953)
4-6-8: DUTIES OF INSPECTOR:
   A.   Duties Enumerated: In addition to the following air pollution duties,
the inspector shall perform such other duties as the building official shall
direct:
      1.   To make annual inspections of all fuel consuming devices, as
provided in section
4-6-7 of this chapter.
      2.   To investigate all complaints of violation of this chapter and to
institute necessary proceedings in case of violation. Upon first determining
that a violation does exist, the air pollution inspector shall, within twenty
four (24) hours thereafter, notify by registered mail the owner and/or lessee
or operator of any heating plant or installation, the operation of which is
found to be in violation of the terms of this chapter, which said written
notice shall specify the manner and extent of the violation claimed. No further
written notice shall be required unless said violation shall be resumed after
having been continuously abated for a period of more than thirty (30) days, in
which event said owner, lessee or operator shall, upon the resumption of said
violation, again be notified in the manner set out in this subsection. Nothing
herein contained shall be construed as limiting and prohibiting the air
pollution inspector from voluntarily giving such other written or oral notice
or notifications to offenders or violators, as in his judgment he deems proper
and necessary.
      3.   To investigate and make recommendations from time to time to the
city council with respect to needed revisions of this or any other provisions
of this code pertaining to air pollution control.
      4.   To prepare and disseminate appropriate educational literature to the
public for the purpose of advising them of the purposes and necessity of the
prevention of air pollution.
      5.   To fully cooperate with all civic or other organizations which may
be or become interested in the prevention of air pollution.
      6.   To promulgate and publish rules and regulations under which this
chapter will be administered, providing in detail and with clarity the
necessary information by which the public is to be guided. Copies of the
Ringlemann Chart shall be made available without charge.
      7.   To issue all certificates of inspection required under the terms of
this chapter and to notify all parties concerning any decision he may render
and to provide such parties with an opportunity to have a full hearing, as
provided in section
4-6-9 of this chapter.
      8.   To keep in his office a complete record of all plans submitted, and
copies of all permits issued and of all examinations of plants made and also
all certificates issued. He shall make an annual report of his work to the city
council on or before April 1 of each year, and at other times as may be
required by the city council.
      9.   To examine the plans for all new buildings and for the alteration of
existing buildings in order to assure that they are so designated that same can
be managed and operated to conform to the provisions of this chapter.
      10.   To do any and all other acts which may be necessary for the
successful prosecution of the purposes of this chapter and such other acts as
may be specifically enumerated as his duties.
   B.   Interference With Inspector: Any person interfering in any manner or
impeding the performance of duty of the inspector shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and shall be subject to the penalties provided in section
4-6-10 of this chapter for violation of the provisions of this chapter. This
subsection shall likewise apply to the performance of duty of those employees
and representatives of the inspector. (Ord. 1945, 7-14-1953)
4-6-9: HEARINGS AND APPEAL:
Any person aggrieved by any ruling rendered by the inspector shall have the
right to require the inspector to conduct a full and complete hearing prior to
actual and final decision. Such hearing shall afford the person aggrieved with
a full opportunity to present any evidence which he may desire to support his
position. It shall be the duty of the inspector to promptly notify all parties
concerned of his rulings in such hearings. Appeal from the decision of said
inspector, following such hearing, shall be taken within ten (10) days to the
advisory and appeals board created in subsection
4-6-2B of this chapter, and said appeal shall be perfected by the service upon
the air pollution inspector, by written notice, of intention to so appeal.
Until such appeal shall have been heard and finally determined by the advisory
and appeals board, no further action shall be taken by the air pollution
inspector. The decision of the advisory and appeals board shall be final. (Ord.
1945, 7-14-1953)
4-6-10: PENALTIES:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter, except as
herein otherwise provided, shall be fined as provided in title 1, chapter 3 of
this code for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day such violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 1945, 7-14-1953; amd. 2001
Code)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
Animal Control   1
Dogs And Cats   1A
Dangerous Animals And Regulated Dogs   1B
General Offenses   2
Offenses Involving Minors   2A
Civil Emergencies   2B
Human Rights   3
Fair Housing   3A
Housing Protections For Victims Of
Domestic Violence   3B
Convenience Store Security   4
Chronic Nuisance Properties   5
Chronic Nuisance Vehicles   6
CHAPTER 1
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-1-1: Animals At Large
5-1-2: Swine Prohibited; Exceptions
5-1-3: Use Of Tranquilizer Guns And Drugs
5-1-4: Disposal Of Dead Animals
5-1-4A: Landlord Liability
5-1-5: Trapping Restrictions
5-1-6: Cruelty To Animals
5-1-7: Use Of Animals Restricted
5-1-8: Sanitary Conditions Maintained
5-1-9: Sheltering Animals
5-1-10: Animals Biting Persons
5-1-11: Noisy Or Annoying Animals
5-1-12: Chronic Violators
5-1-13: Administrative Procedures
5-1-14: Enforcement
5-1-15: Definitions
5-1-1: ANIMALS AT LARGE:
   A.   Prohibited: No cattle, horses, mules, swine, sheep, goats, or any
geese, ducks, turkeys, chickens or other animal or fowl (hereinafter referred
to as animal) shall be allowed to run at large within the city, nor shall any
animal be permitted to be staked or tied out to graze on or in front of any
person's premises, without the consent of such person, nor shall any animal be
permitted to be staked or tied out to graze in public streets, alleys or
avenues of the city.
   B.   Violation: Any animal found in violation of the provisions of any of
the subsections of this section by a sanitary inspector, animal control officer
or any police officer of the city, or any other person, may be apprehended and
impounded with the city, or an alternate pound or shelter designated by the
city. It shall be unlawful for any person employed by the city, or any person
employed by or connected with the animal pound or shelter or any society or
organization operating or maintaining such pound or shelter under lease or
contract with the city, to sell, give away or dispose of, through any pretext
or by any device or means whatsoever, any animal impounded in such pound or
shelter to any person, organization or research facility for the purpose of
using such animal as food, unless such animal is of a type that is customarily
used for food, or for the purpose of medical experimentation unless the
research facility, person or organization desiring such animal for medical
experimentation is duly approved and authorized by the state to conduct such
experimentation, or for any other purpose except for pets and related
activities.
   C.   Harboring: The harboring of any animal requires that the following
guidelines be followed:
      1.   All such species must be restrained upon the owner's property and
penned (housed or stabled) in such a manner that the animals will not place any
person in fear of attack.
      2.   All animals that are included in this section shall be required to
have adequate space as so designated by the zoning ordinance according to the
size and needs of the various animals, and each animal shall be so restrained
in an area to allow proper exercise for the particular species involved.
      3.   When the owner restrains (harbors) any animal in an area not
adjoining the owner's residence, the owner shall post his name, address and
phone number at the place where the animal is being restrained (harbored).
   D.   Registration: Any wild, nondomestic animals, reptiles or birds, in
captivity in the metropolitan area of the city, except such animals that are
within the city for the purposes of display by a show, act, carnival, zoo,
circus or promotional agency, which are known to be dangerous, poisonous,
vicious or ferocious, shall be registered with the following agencies of the
city: the animal control officer, the police department and the Humane Society.
If such animals are in the metropolitan area as part of a show, act, carnival,
zoo, circus or promotional agency, then such group shall show adequate and
ample restraints placed upon the animals as to protect the health and safety of
the exposed public.
If such animal becomes at large within the city and poses a threat to the
public, it shall be assumed that the owner has given consent to eliminate the
animal with the cost to be borne by the owner. The mayor, the animal control
officer or any police officer may order the elimination of such animal.
   E.   Fees And Charges: The owner or caretaker of an animal of any type that
is restrained or impounded in accordance with the provisions of this chapter
shall be liable to pay all costs of impoundment to the Humane Society. The
costs of impoundment shall include all feed and boarding fees, tattoo or
microchip implant fees, testing fees for rabies or other communicable diseases,
fees for sedation and special handling, and charges for reasonable medical
services, equipment or supplies. In addition, the owner or caretaker shall pay
to the Humane Society a redemption fee according to the Humane Society's fee
schedule then in effect. When a dog or cat is returned to the owner or
caretaker by animal control, the owner or caretaker shall pay a pick up fee in
an amount determined from time to time by resolution of the city council. All
fees or charges of any type or nature shall be paid in full at the time the
animal is redeemed from the Humane Society or taken home by animal control.
(Ord. 5204, 3-10-2014; amd. Ord. 5684, 1-17-2023)
5-1-2: SWINE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   No person shall keep or harbor any pigs or have any pigpens or pigsties
within the city, except as follows:
      1.   Nothing contained in this section shall prevent the harboring and
keeping of pigs and use of pig pens and sties in connection with a general
farming operation on tracts of farmland of the size of forty (40) acres or
greater.
      2.   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the keeping of pigs and use
of pig pens and sties within the confines of any meatpacking plant where such
pigs have been brought for butchering and processing.
      3.   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the keeping of pigs which are
housed at the Sunrise Exchange Club Petting Zoo.
   B.   The provisions of this section shall be subject to the provisions of
this code and other ordinances of the city relating to nuisances. (Ord. 5204,
3-10-2014; amd. Ord. 5684, 1-17-2023)
5-1-3: USE OF TRANQUILIZER GUNS AND DRUGS:
   A.   The animal control officer, his agents or any police official shall be
able to use a tranquilizer gun or any other drug to bring an animal at large
under control.
   B.   In order to use a tranquilizer gun or other drugs, the animal must be
at large and pose a threat or danger to the general public or to the city
officer trying to bring the animal under control.
   C.   If it becomes necessary for the animal control department or the police
department to use a tranquilizer gun or other drugs to bring an animal at large
under control, the city shall not be held responsible for any damage done to
the animal by the use of the tranquilizer gun or other drugs.
   D.   The owner of the animal that needs sedation to bring it under control
shall pay for costs of the sedation and for the care and feeding while the
animal is under control of the city or the Humane Society. (Ord. 5204, 3-10-
2014; amd. Ord. 5684, 1-17-2023)
5-1-4: DISPOSAL OF DEAD ANIMALS:
A person caring for or owning any animal that has died shall not allow the
carcass to remain about his or her premises. Such carcass shall be disposed of
within twenty four (24) hours after death. Animal control shall charge a pick
up fee in an amount determined from time to time by resolution of the city
council. (Ord. 5204, 3-10-2014; amd. Ord. 5684, 1-17-2023)
5-1-4A: LANDLORD LIABILITY:
Landlords are responsible for any fees charged for removal of abandoned animals
or animals left at a property due to eviction or a tenant's extended illness or
death. (Ord. 5684, 1-17-2023)
5-1-5: TRAPPING RESTRICTIONS:
No person shall set or use any steel, claw, leghold, conibear, snare or box
trap outside of any structure or building for the purpose of taking, killing,
maiming, wounding, ensnaring or capturing an animal or which is injurious to
persons or animals, except for the following:
   A.   Any trapping by a governmental unit to capture animals which are
creating a public nuisance or for the protection of public or property;
   B.   Licensed pest and rodent control persons in protection of private
property;
   C.   During the season allowed by the state conservation commission for
taking of furbearing animals on parcels of land privately owned of forty (40)
acres or more, or public land controlled by a governmental agency issuing such
rights to trapping;
   D.   Wire cage box traps may be used to remove nuisance pests from private
property; said traps must be checked every thirty (30) minutes.
   E.   Traps may be rented from animal control for a five (5) day period to
remove nuisance pests, however, the trapper is required to transport dogs and/
or cats to the Humane Society. The rental fee shall be an amount determined
from time to time by resolution of the city council. Wildlife shall be
transported, by the trapper, and released unharmed to an area outside Waterloo
city limits .
   F.   A private property owner on his private property in order to control
small rodents, such as gophers, moles and other similar animals. (Ord. 5204, 3-
10-2014; amd. Ord. 5684, 1-17-2023)
5-1-6: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
   A.   No theatrical exhibit, circus, animal act or show shall be held in
which animals or fowl are encouraged or made to perform through the use of
chemical, electrical or mechanical means or devices. If any person shall
torture, torment, mutilate, cruelly beat or cruelly kill any animal or fowl, or
unnecessarily fail to provide the same with adequate feed and water, shelter or
protection from the weather, or cruelly abandon the same, or shall commit any
other act of omission by which unjustifiable pain, distress, suffering or death
is caused or permitted to any animal or fowl, whether the acts or omissions
herein contemplated be committed either maliciously, willfully or negligently,
and if any person shall knowingly permit such act or omission or shall cause or
procure the same to be done, he shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
   B.   When the temperature falls below thirty degrees Fahrenheit (30°F), with
wind chill factor applied, or when the heat index is at least eighty-five
degrees (85°), no animal may be restrained outdoors by tethering for more than
fifteen (15) minutes without access to adequate food, adequate water, and an
outdoor facility that provides adequate protection from the elements. In any
circumstances, a tethered animal must have access to an outdoor facility that
provides adequate protection from the elements. (Ord. 5204, 3-10-2014; amd.
Ord. 5684, 1-17-2023)
5-1-7: USE OF ANIMALS RESTRICTED:
   A.   Artificially Colored Animals; Sale: No chick, duckling, gosling or
rabbit that has been dyed or otherwise colored artificially may be sold or
offered for sale, raffled, offered or given as a prize, premium or advertising
device, or displayed in any store, shop, carnival or other public place.
   B.   Use As Advertising Devices:
      1.   Chicks, ducklings and goslings, younger than four (4) weeks of age
may not be sold or offered for sale, raffled or offered or given as a prize,
premium or advertising device, in quantity of less than twelve (12) birds to an
individual person unless sold by a person engaged in the business of selling
chicks, ducklings and goslings for agricultural or wildlife purposes.
      2.   Stores, shops, vendors and others displaying chicks, ducklings or
goslings to the public, shall provide and operate brooders or other heating
devices that may be necessary to maintain the chicks, ducklings or goslings in
good health, and shall keep adequate food and adequate water available to the
birds at all times. (Ord. 5204, 3-10-2014; amd. Ord. 5684, 1-17-2023)
5-1-8: SANITARY CONDITIONS MAINTAINED:
   A.   Sanitary Premises: It shall be unlawful for the owner, caretaker or
person in charge of any dog, cat, horse or other animal to permit excrement or
droppings from any of said animals to collect on the premises of said person
causing odor or an unsanitary condition. Each owner, caretaker or person in
charge of an animal shall prevent said animal from interfering with any
neighboring residents' peaceful and quiet enjoyment of their property.
   B.   Owner To Clean Up Droppings: It shall be unlawful for any owner,
caretaker or person in charge of a dog, cat, horse or other animal to fail to
clean up and/or remove as soon as possible any excrement or droppings deposited
by said dog, cat, horse or other animal on any real estate, whether privately
owned or publicly owned, other than on the premises of the owner, caretaker or
person in charge; provided, however, that the foregoing does not apply to
excrement or droppings deposited by Waterloo police dogs or horses when police
officers are using said dogs or horses for official police duties.
   C.   Confined Animal Waste Disposal Systems; Exterior Residential Use Only:
Anyone who owns or otherwise cares for any animal in a residential zone, as
defined in the Waterloo zoning ordinance, and who intends to install a confined
waste system shall conform to all of the following requirements:
      1.   The confined waste system container (hereinafter "container") shall
have a maximum volume of two and thirty six hundredths (2.36) cubic feet or
seventeen and seventy two hundredths (17.72) gallons.
      2.   The container shall be placed in an area of the property not
normally occupied or used for play or recreation, and the container shall be
buried so that the lid remains exposed.
      3.   The container shall have a waterproof lid that shall remain closed
at all times. The lid may be removed only when animal excrement or droppings
are deposited or added. The lid shall, thereafter, be immediately replaced.
      4.   Lime or activated enzymes shall be added periodically to promote the
continued decomposition of waste.
      5.   Enforcement of this subsection shall be by the Black Hawk County
health department and/or the animal control officer, as designated by the city
council. (Ord. 5204, 3-10-2014; amd. Ord. 5684, 1-17-2023)
5-1-9: SHELTERING ANIMALS:
   A.   Shelter From Sunlight: When sunlight is likely to cause overheating or
discomfort, sufficient shade shall be provided to allow all any animal kept
outdoors to protect itself from the direct rays of the sun.
   B.   Shelter From Rain Or Snow: Any animals kept outdoors shall be provided
with access to shelter to allow them to remain dry during rain or snow.
   C.   Shelter From Cold Weather: Shelter must be provided for all animals
kept outdoors when the atmospheric temperature falls below fifty degrees
Fahrenheit (50°F). Sufficient clean bedding material or other means of
protection from the weather elements shall be provided when the ambient
temperature falls below that temperature to which the species is acclimated.
Pet carriers, crates and pet taxis are not considered adequate shelter against
the cold. (Ord. 5684, 1-17-2023)
5-1-10: ANIMALS BITING PERSONS:
   A.   Duty To Report: It shall be the duty of the owner or caretaker of any
dog, cat or any other animal which has bitten or attacked a person, or of any
person having knowledge of such bite or attack, to report this act to the
health department, police department or animal control. It shall be the duty of
physicians or veterinarians to report to the health department the existence of
any animal known or suspected to be suffering from rabies.
   B.   Confinement: When a member of the health department, police department,
animal control or humane officer receives information that any person has been
bitten or attacked by an animal, or that a dog, cat or other animal is
suspected of having rabies, the official shall order the owner or caretaker to
confine such animal in the manner and place the official directs. If the owner
or caretaker fails to confine such animal in the manner directed, the animal
shall be apprehended and impounded by such official, and after ten (10) days
the animal may be humanely destroyed if it is not redeemed. Before such animal
is returned to its owner or caretaker, all fees and charges of impoundment as
set forth in subsection
5-1-1E of this chapter must be paid in full. (Ord. 5204, 3-10-2014; amd. Ord.
5684, 1-17-2023)
5-1-11: NOISY OR ANNOYING ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for the owner or caretaker of a dog, cat or other animal
to permit or allow said dog, cat or other animal to cause serious annoyance or
disturbance to a person or persons by frequent and habitual howling, whining,
yelping, barking or other vocal emittance to the unreasonable annoyance of
others. After the first written warning, residents of at least three (3)
neighboring households must sign a citation or a petition. If the party charged
pleads not guilty, the signatories will be asked to appear in court to testify.
Proof of ownership of a dog, cat or other animal shall constitute in evidence a
prima facie presumption of permission of the owner in any proceedings charging
any violation of this subsection. (Ord. 5204, 3-10-2014; amd. Ord. 5684, 1-17-
2023)
5-1-12: CHRONIC VIOLATORS:
   A.   If the owner or caretaker of a dog, cat or other animal is charged or
cited, more than three (3) times in any period of twelve (12) months, with a
violation of this chapter that requires a service call by animal control to a
specific location, a nuisance is hereby declared to exist due to excessive
service calls by animal control that place an undue and inappropriate burden on
the taxpayers of the city, and said person shall be charged a nuisance service
fee for subsequent responses involving the same person or his or her household.
The fee shall be an amount determined from time to time by resolution of the
city council. For hourly billing, any fraction of an hour is tabulated as a
complete hour.
   B.   Written notice that a person is a chronic violator of this chapter
shall be directed to such person, and such notice is appealable to the city
council as set forth in section
5-1-13 of this chapter.
   C.   For any person whose status as a chronic violator is not overturned on
appeal, any subsequent service fees chargeable to such person after the date of
initial notice will be assessed against the person's property, as shown by the
city's animal licensing or registration records, in the manner of a property
tax if the service fees are not paid within thirty (30) days. (Ord. 5204, 3-10-
2014; amd. Ord. 5684, 1-17-2023)
5-1-13: ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES:
   A.   Notice: Any notice or order issued under this chapter shall be in
writing and shall be delivered either personally, by certified mail or by
conspicuous posting on the entry door of the premises. A notice or order shall
be deemed to have been delivered at the time of personal delivery, three (3)
business days after the date of mailing, or one business day after posting.
   B.   Bonds: Any bond required by this chapter shall be in an amount totaling
the current daily rate of impoundment at animal control multiplied by forty
five (45) days, but not to exceed an amount determined from time to time by
resolution of the city council. The bond may be filed as a cash bond or a
surety bond executed by a solvent company authorized to do business in the
state of Iowa and which is acceptable to the city. If the city council
ultimately reverses the notice or order appealed from, all costs paid and any
bond posted by the owner or caretaker shall be refunded. If the animal or dog
is found to have been kept, harbored, or sheltered in violation of this
chapter, any fees or charges incurred in caring for the animal or dog, as set
forth in subsection
5-1-1E of this chapter, through the appeal process shall be charged against the
bond, and the owner or caretaker shall be liable for any excess.
   C.   Appeal Procedure:
      1.   Any individual or entity desiring to appeal a notice or order issued
by animal control may do so by filing a written appeal with the city clerk
within seven (7) days after the date of delivery of such notice or order. The
notice of appeal shall state the grounds for such appeal. In addition, a filing
fee in an amount determined from time to time by resolution of the city council
must also be paid to the city clerk for the appeal to be considered filed.
      2.   The hearing on the appeal shall be scheduled for a date within
thirty (30) days of the receipt of notice of appeal and shall be scheduled for
no more than thirty (30) minutes in length or such additional time as the city
council in its discretion may deem necessary. If the appellant desires
additional time, he or she must make application to the city council for an
extension at least seven (7) days prior to the hearing. The appeal hearing
shall be simple and informal, without regard to technicalities of procedure or
rules regarding admissibility of evidence. The city council may consider any
evidence it considers credible, including written summaries and other secondary
sources, and give such weight to the evidence as it considers warranted. After
such hearing, the city council by simple majority may affirm or reverse the
finding or order of the animal control officer. Such determination shall be
contained in a written decision and shall be filed with the city clerk within
ten (10) days after the hearing, or any continued session thereof, and the city
clerk shall deliver a copy of the decision to the appellant. (Ord. 5204, 3-10-
2014; amd. Ord. 5684, 1-17-2023)
5-1-14: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   In addition to any police officer of this city, animal control officers
shall have police powers in enforcement of this chapter; and no person shall
interfere with, hinder, molest or abuse any such officer in the exercise of his
or her powers. For the purpose of discharging the duties imposed by this
chapter and to enforce its provisions, any officer is empowered to enter upon
any premises upon which a dog, cat or other animal is kept or harbored and to
demand proof by the owner or caretaker of such dog, cat or other animal that
the animal is licensed and has had the proper rabies vaccination tag.
   B.   If a police officer or animal control officer shall find upon
inspection of a private premises that a dog, cat or other animal has not
received rabies shots, is not licensed, or has inadequate feed, water or
shelter, the officer may remove said dog, cat or other animal to the city
impoundment facility, with a veterinarian or at a kennel. Following
impoundment, animal control shall give written notice to the owner, if known,
within two (2) days. If the owner does not redeem the dog, cat or animal within
five (5) days after the date of the notice, or if the owner is not known and
animal control is not contacted by an owner or caretaker within three (3) days
after impoundment, the animal may be humanely destroyed or, in appropriate
circumstances as determined by animal control, may be disposed of by sale or by
donation to a suitable animal shelter or rescue organization. Fees and charges
of said removal and boarding of said animal, as set forth in subsection
5-1-1E of this chapter, shall be paid by the owner or caretaker of the dog, cat
or other animal from whom it was taken. (Ord. 5204, 3-10-2014; amd. Ord. 5684,
1-17-2023)
5-1-15: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, including each article under this chapter, unless
the context indicates otherwise, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
 
           The city department and its officers that have been appointed by the city
ANIMAL     council to enforce the animal control ordinances of the city, or another
CONTROL:   governmental agency or private party which the city council has appointed by
           contract for such purpose.
           An animal is at large if it is found within the city off the premises of its
           owner or caretaker, however, an animal will not be deemed at large if:
           A.   It is properly housed in a veterinary hospital, licensed kennel, pet
           shop, or animal shelter.
           B.   It is under the control of authorized public safety personnel.
           C.   It is under the control of a professional handler for special events
AT LARGE:  including, but not limited to, 4-H events, school events, sanctioned pet or
           animal shows, training activities, or animal assisted therapy.
           In addition, a dog or cat, properly licensed as required by article A of
           this chapter, will not be deemed at large if: a) it is restrained by a rope,
           leash, cord, chain, or restraining device not less than ten feet (10') in
           length, or is properly restrained within a motor vehicle or trailer, or b)
           it is within the fenced boundaries of an area designated by the city as a
           dog park and the owner or caretaker is present.
           Any person having possession of an animal, for a period of more than six (6)
           hours for any purpose, where the person in possession does not own the
CARETAKER: animal, other than a licensed veterinarian, animal behaviorist, animal
           shelter, or member of the owner's immediate family who resides in the same
           household as the owner.
OWNER:     Any person owning, keeping or harboring an animal or fowl. (Ord. 5204, 3-10-
           2014; amd. Ord. 5684, 1-17-2023)
 
ARTICLE A. DOGS AND CATS
SECTION:
5-1A-1: Definitions
5-1A-2: Licenses Required
5-1A-3: Exceptions To License Requirements
5-1A-4: Rabies Vaccination Required
5-1A-5: License Tags
5-1A-6: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
5-1A-7: Kennel Premises; Nonconforming Use
5-1A-8: Municipal Pound
5-1A-9: Impoundment Of Animals; Redemption
5-1A-10: Violation; Penalty
5-1A-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, unless the context indicates otherwise, the following
words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this
section. In addition, the words and phrases defined in section
5-1-15 of this chapter shall apply to the provisions of this article, to the
extent applicable.
             The provision at suitable intervals of not more than twenty four (24) hours or
ADEQUATE     longer if the dietary requirements of the species so require, of a quantity of
FEED:        wholesome foodstuff suitable for the species and age, sufficient to maintain a
             reasonable level of nutrition in each animal. The foodstuff shall be served in a
             clean receptacle, dish or container.
ADEQUATE     A supply of clean, fresh, potable water supplied in a sanitary manner at least
WATER:       twice daily at suitable intervals for the animal and not to exceed twelve (12)
             hours at any interval.
ANIMAL POUND A facility operated by the city for the purpose of impounding or harboring
OR SHELTER:  seized, stray, homeless, abandoned or unwanted dogs, cats or other animals; or a
             facility operated for such a purpose under a contract with the city.
BOARDING     A place or establishment other than a pound or animal shelter where dogs or cats
KENNEL:      not owned by the proprietor are sheltered, fed and watered in return for a
             consideration.
COMMERCIAL   A person engaged in the business of breeding dogs or cats, or both, for sale,
BREEDER:     whether or not such animals are raised, trained, groomed or boarded by such
             breeder.
COMMERCIAL   A kennel which performs grooming or training services for dogs or cats, or both,
KENNEL:      and may or may not render boarding services in return for a consideration.
             Any person who is engaged in the business of buying for resale or selling or
DEALER:      exchanging dogs or cats as a principal or agent, or who holds himself out to be
             so engaged.
HOUSING      Any room, building or area used to contain a primary enclosure or enclosures.
FACILITY:
KENNEL:      An area of private property that is sheltered where dogs or cats are kept under
             constant restraint.
             A.   Shelter From Sunlight: When sunlight is likely to cause overheating or
             discomfort, sufficient shade shall be provided to allow all dogs or cats and any
             other animal kept outdoors to protect themselves from the direct rays of the sun.
             B.   Shelter From Rain Or Snow: Dogs, cats and other animals kept outdoors shall
             be provided with access to shelter to allow them to remain dry during rain or
             snow.
             C.   Shelter From Cold Weather: Shelter must be provided for all dogs or cats and
             any animals kept outdoors when the atmospheric temperature falls below fifty
             degrees Fahrenheit (50°F). Sufficient clean bedding material or other means of
             protection from the weather elements shall be provided when the ambient
             temperature falls below that temperature to which the species is acclimated. Pet
             carriers, crates and pet taxis are not considered adequate shelter against the
OUTDOOR      cold.
FACILITIES:  D.   Drainage: A suitable method shall be provided to rapidly eliminate excess
             water from the living area of the dog or cat or other animal.
             E.   Vehicles: Animals cannot be left in a vehicle, on a vehicle, or tethered to
             a vehicle for a length of time that could result in danger to or death of an
             animal, when the atmospheric temperature falls below fifty degrees Fahrenheit
             (50°F) and/or when the heat index reaches seventy-five degrees Fahrenheit (75°F).
             If the animal control officer determines that such an animal is in immediate
             danger, the animal control officer or designee may remove the animal by whatever
             means is necessary without liability, for the purpose of taking the animal in for
             protective custody. Redemption of any animal taken into custody shall require
             payment of all fees and charges as set forth in subsection
             5-1-1E of this chapter within the applicable time allowed by this chapter or by
             order of animal control or the city council. !
PET SHOP:    An establishment where any dog, cat or other animal or fowl, or other vertebrate
             animal is sold, exchanged or offered for sale to the general public.
PRIMARY      Any structure used to immediately restrict an animal to a limited amount of
ENCLOSURE:   space, such as a room, pen, cage or compartment.
             Any school or college of medicine, veterinary medicine, pharmacy, dentistry or
             osteopathy, or hospital, diagnostic or research laboratories, or other
RESEARCH     educational or scientific establishment situated in this state concerned with the
FACILITY:    investigation of, or instruction concerning the structure or function of, living
             organisms, the cause, prevention, control or cure of diseases or abnormal
             conditions of human beings or animals.
             Any guide dog, signal dog, or other animal individually trained to provide
SERVICE      assistance to a person with a disability or that serves public health, safety and
ANIMAL:      law enforcement personnel, as well as any dog enrolled in a recognized formal
             training program for those types of services.
TRANQUILIZE: To temporarily sedate any animal for gaining control. (Ord. 5204, 3-10-2014; amd.
             Ord. 5684, 1-17-2023)
 
5-1A-2: LICENSES REQUIRED:
   A.   Annual License: The owner of all dogs and cats six (6) months old or
older, whether service animals or otherwise, shall annually obtain a license
therefor as hereinafter provided.
   B.   Application By Owner: The owner of a dog or cat, for which a license is
required, shall on or before January 1 of each year apply to the city clerk for
a license for each dog or cat owned by said owner. Such application or license
may be made after January 1, and at any time, for a dog or cat which has come
into the possession or ownership of the applicant, or which has reached the age
of six (6) months after said date.
   C.   Form Of Application: Subject application shall be in writing on blanks
provided by the city clerk, and shall state the breed, sex, age, color,
markings and name, if any, of the dog or cat, and the address of the owner and
be signed by said owner. Such application shall also state the date of the most
recent rabies vaccination, the type of vaccine administered and the date the
dog or cat shall be revaccinated.
   D.   License Fees:
      1.   The annual license fee for each dog or cat shall be determined from
time to time by resolution of the city council. Fees shall be paid by March 31
or within ninety (90) days after the date on which any dog or cat that is not
licensed first becomes subject to licensure under subsection B of this section.
Any fee not paid by the due date shall increase to an amount determined from
time to time by resolution of the city council.
      2.   Duplicate licenses shall be issued at a cost determined from time to
time by resolution of the city council.
      3.   The city license fee shall be waived for all dogs or cats if the
owner of said dogs or cats has a valid license issued by the state of Iowa that
allows the keeping of such animals.
      4.   The owner of all dogs or cats six (6) months old or older must
comply with all the provisions of this article, including, but not limited to,
the obtaining of rabies vaccination and license tag, even if the license fee
has been waived. A written certificate from a licensed veterinarian shall be
required to prove that a dog or cat is incapable of breeding and has been
vaccinated for rabies.
   E.   Term Of License: All licenses shall expire on January 1 of the year
following the date of issuance, and a license tag issued for one dog or cat
shall not be transferable to another dog or cat.
   F.   Transfer Or Change Of Ownership: When the permanent ownership of a dog
or cat is transferred, the license for the same may be transferred by the city
clerk by the notation on the license record giving name and address of the new
owner.
   G.   Implied Consent: The application for and the receipt of a license as
required herein shall include an implied consent by the owner to permit an
inspection of both real and personal property under his control for the purpose
of carrying out the provisions of this article, including inspection for
cruelty to animals or an inspection of sanitary conditions.
   H.   Delinquent Licenses: All license fees for dogs or cats become
delinquent on April 1 in the year in which they are due and payable, and a
penalty shall be added to each unpaid license on or after said date in the like
amount of the annual license fee as hereinbefore set out in subsection D of
this section. (Ord. 5204, 3-10-2014; amd. Ord. 5684, 1-17-2023)
5-1A-3: EXCEPTIONS TO LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
The foregoing requirements for licenses for dogs or cats shall not apply to
dogs or cats that are under the control of the owners or handlers while in
transit or to be exhibited or to nonresidents of the city if they are in the
state for less than thirty (30) days or which are assigned to a research
institution or like facility. The license fee shall be waived for all dogs or
cats if the owner of said dogs or cats has a valid state license for said dogs
or cats. (Ord. 5204, 3-10-2014; amd. Ord. 5684, 1-17-2023)
5-1A-4: RABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED:
   A.   Required: Every owner of a dog or cat shall obtain a rabies vaccination
for such animal. It shall be unlawful for any person to own or have a dog in
his possession six (6) months of age or over which has not been vaccinated
against rabies.
   B.   Type Of Vaccine: The rabies vaccination required by subsection A of
this section shall be an injection of anti-rabies vaccine approved by the Iowa
state department of agriculture, and the frequency of revaccination necessary
for approved vaccination shall be as established by subject department. The
vaccine shall be administered by a licensed veterinarian and shall be given as
approved by the Iowa state department of agriculture. Evidence of said rabies
vaccination shall be a certificate of vaccination signed by a licensed
veterinarian, and the certificate shall show that the vaccination does not
expire within six (6) months from the effective date of the dog or cat license.
(Ord. 5204, 3-10-2014; amd. Ord. 5684, 1-17-2023)
5-1A-5: LICENSE TAGS:
   A.   Required: The city clerk, Animal Control officers and Humane Society
shall, upon receipt of application, payment of license fee and proof of rabies
vaccination, provide to the applicant a license which shall be in the form of a
metal tag.
   B.   Use Of License Tag: Said license tag shall be attached by the owner of
a dog or cat to a substantial collar or harness and during the term of license
shall be at all times kept on the dog or cat for which the license is issued.
On the expiration of the license, the owner shall remove said tag from the dog
or cat. (Ord. 5204, 3-10-2014; amd. Ord. 5684, 1-17-2023)
5-1A-6: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   At Large: It shall be unlawful for the owner or caretaker of a dog or
cat to permit or allow such dog or cat to be at large. Any dog or cat found at
large shall be presumed to be so with the permission of its owner or caretaker,
and proof of ownership and that said dog or cat was at large shall constitute
in evidence a prima facie presumption in any proceeding charging any violation
of this subsection. As to any dog at large under the circumstances described in
section
5-1B-9 of this chapter, violation of this subsection shall constitute a
misdemeanor and be punishable by a fine of not less than an amount determined
from time to time by resolution of the city council, or constitute a municipal
infraction. For purposes of determining the civil penalty applicable to
subsequent municipal infraction offenses, any violation of this subsection that
occurs after the first offense is a subsequent offense.
   B.   Dogs Or Cats Attacking, Causing Damage Or Injury:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or caretaker of a dog or cat to
permit such dog or cat to attack persons or domestic animals or to destroy
property, or to permit such dog or cat to place persons in reasonable fear of
attack or injury. Proof of ownership of a dog or cat and that said dog or cat
did attack persons or domestic animals, destroy property, or place persons in
reasonable fear of attack or injury shall constitute in evidence a prima facie
presumption of permission of the owner or caretaker in any proceeding charging
violation of this subsection.
      2.   Animal control shall have discretion about whether to charge a
violation of this subsection, depending on the particular circumstances and
whether the animal constitutes a risk of attacking again, and in exercising
such discretion animal control may be aided by the professional opinion of a
veterinarian or trained animal behaviorist. If a decision is made to charge a
violation concerning a dog, then animal control will classify the dog as
potentially dangerous, dangerous or vicious pursuant to article B of this
chapter and will provide written notice of same to the owner or caretaker.
      3.   The owner or caretaker of a dog that has attacked must produce the
dog to animal control for rabies testing, at the cost of the owner or
caretaker. If the dog is not produced, it may be seized and the owner or
caretaker will be guilty of a municipal infraction.
   C.   Female Dogs Or Cats In Heat: The owner or caretaker of any female dog
or cat in heat shall confine said female dog or cat in a building, or keep the
same in his or her presence so that the said female dog or cat cannot come into
contact with another animal except for planned breeding.
   D.   Feeding Feral Cats: It shall be unlawful for any person to feed any cat
that is at large without a collar, license tag, or imbedded ownership chip,
except for a person who does so as an authorized participant in a city
sponsored program to trap, neuter and release such cats.
   E.   Litters: It shall be unlawful for any person who does not possess a
commercial breeder license or permit issued by the state of Iowa or the federal
government to keep, shelter, or harbor a female dog or a female cat with its
litter that at any time exceeds two (2) offspring, unless the person registers
the litter with animal control within five (5) days of birth or acquisition and
pays a registration fee in an amount determined from time to time by resolution
of the city council. Animal control may seize the entire litter and the mother
that are in the possession of any person violating this paragraph, and the
person shall be guilty of a municipal infraction. (Ord. 5204, 3-10-2014; amd.
Ord. 5684, 1-17-2023)
5-1A-7: KENNEL PREMISES; NONCONFORMING USE:
Any premises declared by this article to be a kennel that is not located in a
properly zoned district under the provisions of the Waterloo zoning ordinance,
is hereby declared to be a nonconforming use. Said use of a premises as a
kennel shall not be enlarged, extended, reconstructed, substituted or
structurally altered except when required by law, nor shall the number of dogs
or cats over six (6) months of age be increased. Whenever a dog or cat, owned
or kept on a premises declared by this article to be a kennel, dies or is sold
or is given away, said dog or cat shall not be replaced until such time as the
use of said premises is no longer a kennel and a nonconforming use as defined
by this section. In addition, in the event that the use of a premises as a
kennel is discontinued for a period of one year, use of the same shall conform
thereafter to the uses permitted in the zoning district in which it is located.
(Ord. 5204, 3-10-2014; amd. Ord. 5684, 1-17-2023)
5-1A-8: MUNICIPAL POUND:
   A.   City May Establish: The city may establish and maintain a municipal
animal pound or shelter to be conducted and operated by the city. It shall be
the duty of the authorized persons appointed by the city to supervise and
control such pound or shelter, to cause it to be kept in a sanitary condition
and free from offensive odors, to provide adequate and wholesome food for
animals impounded therein, to provide careful and humane treatment toward such
animals, to isolate diseased animals, and to provide for humane destruction of
animals when necessary.
   B.   Contract For Care: In lieu of the establishment and maintenance of
animal pounds, the city may contract with any incorporated society or
association for the prevention of cruelty to animals for the collection and
protection of licensed or unlicensed dogs, cats and other animals, for the
maintenance of a shelter or pound for licensed or unlicensed dogs, cats or
other animals, for the collection of dogs or cats, or other animals "at large"
as herein defined, for the destruction or other disposition of seized dogs or
cats, or other animals, not redeemed as provided by this article, for the
disposal of dead animals, and to assist in the collection of licenses upon dogs
and cats. (Ord. 5204, 3-10-2014; amd. Ord. 5684, 1-17-2023)
5-1A-9: IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS; REDEMPTION:
   A.   Apprehension And Impoundment: Any dog or cat found running at large,
whether or not wearing a license tag and valid rabies vaccination tag, may be
apprehended and impounded. If the owner does not redeem the dog or cat within
five (5) days after the date of notice, or if an animal without identification
is not redeemed within three (3) days after impoundment, the dog or cat may be
humanely destroyed or, in appropriate circumstances as determined by animal
control, may be disposed of by sale or by donation to a suitable animal shelter
or rescue organization.
   B.   Permanent Identification : Each dog apprehended after being found at
large, and each dog confined pursuant to subsection
5-1-10B of this chapter, shall be assigned a registration number by animal
control or its designee. If a registration number has not previously been
affixed to the dog by permanent microchip implant, tattoo or some other
permanent means, then before the dog is released to its owner or caretaker the
registration number shall be so affixed by a licensed veterinarian or other
person acceptable to the city, at the expense of the owner or caretaker. If
multiple forms of identification are available, the owner or caretaker may
select the type to be used. No person shall remove or alter such identification
once it is affixed.
   C.   Spay/Neuter: An owner or caretaker of a dog or cat apprehended after
being found at large for the third (3rd) time in a calendar year will be
notified that the animal will be spayed or neutered before being redeemed.
   D.   Redemption Of Animal: Unless the animal is to be destroyed by order of
animal control, or unless the animal is being tested for rabies or other
communicable diseases, any dog or cat that was impounded may be redeemed by the
owner or caretaker thereof upon payment of all fees and charges as set forth in
subsection
5-1-1E of this chapter within the applicable time allowed by this chapter or by
order of animal control or the city council. (Ord. 5204, 3-10-2014; amd. Ord.
5684, 1-17-2023)
5-1A-10: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Unless any section of this article prescribes a different penalty, any person
violating any provision of this article shall be deemed guilty of a municipal
infraction. The court may grant any other appropriate alternative relief. (Ord.
5204, 3-10-2014; amd. Ord. 5684, 1-17-2023)
ARTICLE B. DANGEROUS ANIMALS AND REGULATED DOGS
SECTION:
5-1B-1: Definitions
5-1B-2: Keeping Of Dangerous Animals Prohibited; Exceptions
5-1B-3: Regulations On Keeping Dangerous Animals
5-1B-4: Prohibitions On Possession Of Animals
5-1B-5: Regulated Dogs
5-1B-6: Guard Dogs
5-1B-7: Registration Of Regulated Dogs
5-1B-8: Tethering Of Dogs
5-1B-9: Dog Attacks
5-1B-10: Irresponsible Dog Owners
5-1B-11: Landlord Liability
5-1B-12: Enforcement
5-1B-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, unless the context indicates otherwise, the following
words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this
section. In addition, the words and phrases defined in sections
5-1-15 and
5-1A-1 of this chapter shall apply to the provisions of this article, to the
extent applicable.
 
            A.   Any animal or species of animal which is not naturally tame or gentle, and
            which is of a wild nature or disposition, and which is capable of killing,
            inflicting serious injury upon, or causing disease among human beings or domestic
            animals and having tendencies as a species to do so.
            B.   Any animal declared to be dangerous by the city council or an animal control
            officer.
            C.   The following animals or species of animals shall be deemed dangerous per se:
               1.   All felids, except Felis domestica (domestic cats).
               2.   All ursids (bears).
               3.   All canids, except Canis familiaris (dogs).
               4.   All nonhuman primates.
               5.   All crocodilians.
DANGEROUS      6.   All venomous and constricting snakes.
ANIMAL:        7.   All venomous reptiles.
               8.   All venomous arachnids.
               9.   All mustelids, except domestic ferrets.
            D.   In addition to the exceptions stated in subsection C of this definition, the
            following animals shall not be considered dangerous animals, but nonetheless may be
            subject to applicable zoning requirements:
               1.   Animals kept for farming purposes, including, but not limited to, cattle,
            bison, pigs, horses, poultry, ostriches, emus, goats, sheep, antelope, llamas, and
            alpacas.
               2.   Constricting snakes whose adult length is less than six feet (6'), and
            specifically limited to corn snakes, king snakes, garter snakes, ribbon snakes, rat
            snakes, milk snakes, rosy boas, and ball pythons.
               3.   Hamsters, gerbils, guinea pigs, domestic rabbits, and domestic rats.
            A.   Any dog which bites or attacks a person or other domestic animal without
            provocation and causes injury not severe enough to result in a broken bone or a
            laceration requiring multiple sutures, or any dog that according to available
            records has committed such acts.
            B.   Notwithstanding subsection A of this definition, a dog shall not be deemed a
            dangerous dog in the following circumstances:
               1.   Where the dog is used by a law enforcement official for approved law
            enforcement purposes.
               2.   Where the threat or injury was sustained by a person who was committing a
DANGEROUS   willful trespass upon the premises lawfully occupied by the owner or caretaker of
DOG:        the dog, and the dog was properly confined or tethered as required by this chapter.
               3.   Where the threat or injury was sustained by a person who was committing or
            attempting to commit a crime on the property of the owner or caretaker of the dog,
            or by a person who was attacking the owner or caretaker of the dog.
               4.   Where the threat or injury was sustained by a person due to the person
            torturing, tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog, or intentionally inflicting
            pain on the dog without lawful justification, or by a person in the process of
            treating or rendering aid to a previously injured animal.
               5.   Where the dog was protecting itself or its young.
               6.   Where the threat or injury was sustained by a domestic animal that was at
            large and entered a confined area of the dog.
            Any dog trained or used to protect persons or property by attacking or threatening
GUARD DOG:  to attack any person found within the area patrolled by the dog and that is either
            securely enclosed within that area at all times or under the continuous control of a
            trained handler.
            Any dog with a tendency or disposition to bite or attack unprovoked, to otherwise
            endanger the safety of humans or other domestic animals, or that chases or
POTENTIALLY approaches a person or other domestic animal without provocation while off its
DANGEROUS   owner's or caretaker's property in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of
DOG:        attack, if the owner of such dog is convicted or pleads guilty, no contest, or the
            equivalent to a violation of subsection
            5-1A-6B of this chapter based on fear of attack or injury.
REGULATED   Any dog that is a "potentially dangerous dog", "dangerous dog", or "vicious dog" as
DOG:        defined by this article.
            A.   Any dog which bites or attacks a person or other domestic animal without
            provocation and causes injury that results in one or more broken bones or a
            laceration requiring multiple sutures, or any dog that according to available
            records has committed such acts.
VICIOUS     B.   Any dog that kills a person or other domestic animal without provocation while
DOG:        off the property of its owner or caretaker.
            C.   Notwithstanding subsections A and B of this definition, a dog shall not be
            deemed a vicious dog under the same circumstances in which a dog would not be deemed
            a dangerous dog as set forth under the definition of a "dangerous dog". (Ord. 5204,
            3-10-2014; amd. Ord. 5684, 1-17-2023)
 
5-1B-2: KEEPING OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   No person shall keep, shelter, or harbor as a pet, guard, or for other
purpose, within the city, a "dangerous animal" as defined in this article,
except as provided in subsection B of this section or in section
5-1B-3 of this article.
   B.   The prohibition contained in subsection A of this section shall not
apply to the secure keeping of dangerous animals in the following
circumstances:
      1.   In a bona fide, licensed veterinary hospital for treatment.
      2.   Under the jurisdiction of and in the possession of the natural
resources commission, pursuant to Iowa Code chapters 481A and 481B.
      3.   At the Cedar Bend Humane Society.
      4.   In a public zoo, bona fide educational or medical institute or
museum where they are kept as live specimens for public viewing or for purposes
of research, study or instruction.
      5.   For purposes of bona fide religious practice or ritual.
      6.   For exhibition to the public by a traveling circus, carnival,
exhibit or show that is duly licensed by the city. (Ord. 5204, 3-10-2014; amd.
Ord. 5684, 1-17-2023)
5-1B-3: REGULATIONS ON KEEPING DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Report Required; Information: Every person owning, keeping, sheltering
or harboring a dangerous animal pursuant to subsection
5-1B-2B of this article shall report such fact, in writing, to the animal
control officer, together with the following information:
      1.   The species name of each animal;
      2.   The number of such animals of each such species kept on the
premises;
      3.   A physical description of each such animal, including any pet names
to which it might respond;
      4.   The location of such animal or animals within the city, including
the location of the cage or place of confinement upon or in the premises
wherein the animal or animals are kept;
      5.   In the case of poisonous dangerous animals, the location of the
nearest source of anti-venom for that species; and
      6.   The specific purpose for which the animal is kept and any use that
will be made of the animal.
   B.   Confinement Required: Every person keeping, sheltering or harboring a
dangerous animal shall at all times keep such animal securely confined within a
cage or enclosure.
   C.   Poisonous Animals; Antivenin Kept: Every person owning, keeping, or
harboring a poisonous dangerous animal shall be required to keep ten (10) doses
of anti-venom on hand and current at all times.
   D.   Transporting Dangerous Animals: No person owning, keeping, sheltering
or harboring a dangerous animal shall permit or allow such animal to enter upon
or traverse any public property, park property, public right of way or other
property of another, except when such animal is being transported while caged
or confined.
   E.   Escape: It shall be the responsibility of the owner or caretaker to
notify animal control immediately in the event that a dangerous animal has
escaped and is at large.
   F.   At Large: In the event that a dangerous animal is found at large and
unattended upon public property, park property, public right of way, or the
property of someone other than its owner or caretaker, thereby creating a
hazard to life or property, such animal may, in the discretion of the animal
control officer, be destroyed if it cannot be confined or captured. The city
shall be under no duty to attempt the confinement or capture of a dangerous
animal found at large, nor shall it have a duty to notify the owner or
caretaker of such animal prior to its destruction.
   G.   Order To Remove: In the event the animal control officer determines
that a dangerous animal is being kept, sheltered or harbored by any person or
entity in violation of the provisions of this article, the animal control
officer may, in his or her discretion, have such person or entity prosecuted
for such violation, and he or she may order such person or entity to remove
such dangerous animal from the city or destroy it. Such order shall be
contained in a notice to remove the dangerous animal, which notice shall be
given in writing, directed to such person or entity.
   H.   Appeal Procedure; Compliance With Order: Any person or entity desiring
to appeal an order issued by the animal control officer pursuant to subsection
G of this section shall follow the appeal procedures of section
5-1-13 of this chapter. If the city council affirms the action of the animal
control officer, the provisions of section
5-1-13 of this article shall apply. (Ord. 5204, 3-10-2014; amd. Ord. 5684, 1-
17-2023)
5-1B-4: PROHIBITIONS ON POSSESSION OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Persons Convicted Under State Law On Animal Contest Events: Any person
who has been convicted of, or has pled guilty, no contest, or the equivalent
to, an offense under Iowa Code 717D.2 shall be prohibited from owning, keeping,
sheltering, or harboring within the city limits any animal of the same type
(e.g., dog, rooster, etc.) involved in or at issue in such offense. Violation
of this subsection shall constitute a misdemeanor and be punishable by a fine
of not less than an amount determined from time to time by resolution of the
city council, or constitute a municipal infraction.
   B.   Violation Registry: Animal control shall keep a registry of names and
addresses of individuals with convictions for violating Iowa Code 717D.2 and
section
5-1B-5 or
5-1B-7 of this article. Any individual on this registry is subject to the
restrictions on ownership found in this article, regardless of whether the
individual changes addresses or moves to a different residence. An individual
will be in violation hereof if the prohibited animal is found in their
residence regardless of any claim that the animal belongs to someone else
occupying the residence.
   C.   Notice Of Violation; Confinement: In the event an animal control
officer determines that an animal is being kept, sheltered or harbored by any
person or entity in violation of the provisions of this section or section
5-1B-10 of this article, which determination may be based on direct observation
or on a preponderance of credible evidence (such as photographs, witness
affidavits, or other physical evidence), the animal control officer shall have
such person or entity prosecuted for such violation and shall take the animal
into custody at the expense of the owner or caretaker at a city impoundment
facility, with a veterinarian or at a kennel until such time as the owner or
caretaker agrees in writing to remove or destroy the animal or the city council
has ruled on an appeal of the violation finding. After making a finding that an
animal is being kept, sheltered, or harbored in violation of this article,
animal control shall issue a written notice of violation, directed to such
person or entity.
   D.   Appeal Procedure; Compliance With Order: Any individual or entity
desiring to appeal an order issued by the animal control officer pursuant to
subsection C of this section shall follow the appeal procedures of section
5-1-13 of this chapter. The appeal cannot be filed until all costs incurred to
date in caring and providing for the animal, as set forth in subsection
5-1-1E of this chapter, are paid and a bond is posted with the city clerk. If
the city council affirms the action of the animal control officer, the
provisions of section
5-1-13 of this article shall apply. (Ord. 5204, 3-10-2014; amd. Ord. 5684, 1-
17-2023)
5-1B-5: REGULATED DOGS:
   A.   Applicability: The provisions of this section apply to adult dogs only,
which shall mean any dog over the age of six (6) months.
   B.   Keeping Prohibited: No person shall keep, shelter or harbor as a pet,
within the city, a "regulated dog" as defined in section
5-1B-1 of this article, except as expressly permitted by this article.
   C.   Regulated Dogs At Large: In the event that a dangerous dog or a vicious
dog is found at large and unattended upon public property, park property,
public right of way, or the property of someone other than its owner or
caretaker, thereby creating a hazard to life or property, such dog may, in the
discretion of the animal control officer, be destroyed if it cannot be captured
and confined. The city shall be under no duty to attempt the confinement or
capture of a dangerous dog or vicious dog found at large, nor shall it have a
duty to notify the owner of such dog prior to its destruction.
   D.   Notice Of Violation; Confinement: If the animal control officer
determines that a regulated dog is being kept, sheltered or harbored by any
person or entity in violation of the provisions of this article, which
determination may be based on direct observation or on a preponderance of
credible evidence (such as photographs, witness affidavits, or other physical
evidence) that the dog qualifies as a "regulated dog" as defined by this
article, the animal control officer may, in his or her discretion, have such
person or entity prosecuted for such violation. After making a finding that the
dog is a regulated dog, animal control shall issue a written notice of
violation, directed to such person or entity. At the time such notice is
issued, the dog shall be taken into the custody of animal control and confined
at the expense of the owner or caretaker at the city impoundment facility, with
a veterinarian or at a kennel. Within seven (7) days after delivery of the
notice of violation or, if appealed, within seven (7) days after the city
council has ruled on the regulated dog finding, the owner or caretaker may
redeem the dog or, if it is a potentially dangerous dog, agree in writing to
permanently remove the dog from the city. The owner or caretaker of any
regulated dog that is redeemed must comply with the provisions of section
5-1B-7 of this article. If the owner or caretaker fails to take all steps
necessary to timely perfect an appeal or fails to timely satisfy the
requirements for removal or redemption, the dog may be destroyed in a humane
manner, and the fees and charges of impoundment, as set forth in subsection
5-1-1E of this chapter, and with destruction of the dog shall be charged
against the owner or caretaker.
   E.   Appeal Procedure; Compliance With Order: Any person or entity desiring
to appeal an order issued by the animal control officer pursuant to subsection
D of this section shall follow the appeal procedures of section
5-1-13 of this chapter. The appeal cannot be filed until all costs incurred to
date in caring and providing for the dog, as set forth in subsection
5-1-1E of this chapter, are paid and a bond is posted with the city clerk. If
the city council affirms the action of the animal control officer, the
provisions of section
5-1B-12 of this article shall apply.
   F.   Permanent Identification Required: A dog found to be a potentially
dangerous dog, dangerous dog or vicious dog by an animal control officer,
regardless of the outcome of any appeal, shall be assigned a registration
number by animal control prior to the dog being released to its owner or
caretaker, which shall be affixed to the dog by permanent microchip implant,
tattoo or some other permanent means, by a licensed veterinarian or other
person acceptable to the city, at the expense of the owner or caretaker. If
multiple forms of identification are available, the owner or caretaker may
select the type to be used. No person shall remove or alter such identification
once it is affixed.
   G.   Destruction Of Regulated Dogs Not Permanently Removed Or Destroyed: If
a regulated dog is required to be removed from the city under this section and
the dog is subsequently found within city limits following the date the owner
or caretaker agreed to removal, the failure to permanently remove will
constitute a separate and independent violation of this section. In addition,
if such dog is a dangerous dog or vicious dog it may be destroyed by the city
without further action or possibility of appeal, and the costs of such
destruction will be charged against the party prosecuted for the offense.
   H.   Dog Found Potentially Dangerous, Dangerous Or Vicious By Another
Jurisdiction: A dog found within city limits which has previously been
determined to be potentially dangerous, dangerous, vicious or a threat to the
health or safety of humans or other domestic animals by court order or by any
other city, county or state whose laws or regulations are substantially similar
to those of this chapter shall automatically be deemed to be a potentially
dangerous, dangerous or vicious dog, as appropriate, pursuant to this article,
and the person or entity keeping, sheltering, or harboring it shall be issued a
notice of violation pursuant to subsection D of this section. Any such dog will
be impounded. Within seven (7) days after delivery of the notice of violation
or, if appealed, within seven (7) days after the city council has ruled on the
regulated dog finding, the owner or caretaker may agree in writing to
permanently remove the dog from the city if it is potentially dangerous. If the
owner or caretaker fails to take all steps necessary to timely perfect an
appeal or fails to timely satisfy the requirements for removal, or if the dog
is dangerous or vicious, the dog may be destroyed in a humane manner, and the
fees and charges of impoundment, as set forth in subsection
5-1-1E of this chapter, and with destruction of the dog shall be charged
against the owner or caretaker. (Ord. 5204, 3-10-2014; amd. Ord. 5684, 1-17-
2023)
5-1B-6: GUARD DOGS:
The prohibition contained in this article shall not apply to keeping of guard
dogs; provided, however, that guard dogs must be kept within a structure or a
fenced enclosure at all times, and any guard dog found at large may be
processed as a dangerous dog or vicious dog pursuant to the provisions of this
article. A limit of one guard dog is permitted for each residential premises
and two (2) guard dogs for each nonresidential premises. Any premises guarded
by a guard dog shall be prominently posted with a sign containing the wording
"guard dog" or words of similar import, and the owner or caretaker of such
premises shall inform animal control and the police department, in writing,
that a guard dog is on duty at the premises. It shall be the owner's or
caretaker's responsibility to notify animal control immediately when a guard
dog has escaped and is running at large. The provisions of subsections
5-1B-7A through F, H and I of this article shall apply to the registration of
guard dogs. (Ord. 5204, 3-10-2014; amd. Ord. 5684, 1-17-2023)
5-1B-7: REGISTRATION OF REGULATED DOGS:
   A.   Registration Requirement; Penalty For Failure To Register: If animal
control determines that a dog may be classified as a regulated dog, the dog
cannot be owned, sheltered, housed, harbored, kept, or maintained within the
city limits of Waterloo unless the owner or possessor completes a registration
with animal control and receives a registration certificate authorizing
ownership or possession of the dog. Animal control shall notify the owner or
possessor in writing that the dog is either potentially dangerous, dangerous,
or vicious. Within seven (7) days following the date that animal control
delivers notice to the owner or caretaker that the dog is regulated, the owner
or caretaker of the dog must obtain the registration certificate or file an
appeal of such determination pursuant to subsection M of this section. Any
person found to own, shelter, house, harbor, keep, or maintain a regulated dog
who has failed to register said dog or failed to file a timely appeal will be
subject to an administrative penalty and/or a municipal infraction violation
punishable by a civil penalty, with such penalties to be determined from time
to time by resolution of the city council. In addition, the registration fee
will be increased to an amount determined from time to time by resolution of
the city council, and animal control will impound the animal. The owner or
caretaker may register the dog within seven (7) days following impoundment and
obtain release of the dog if the required registration fee, administrative
penalty, and all fees and charges of impoundment, as set forth in subsection
5-1-1E of this chapter, are paid. If the owner or possessor does not timely
complete the registration process or file an appeal, the dog may be destroyed
in a humane manner and all fees and charges associated with impoundment, as set
forth in subsection
5-1-1E of this chapter, and destruction of the dog shall be charged against the
owner or caretaker. Registration under this section is in addition to any
licensing requirements set forth in article A of this chapter.
   B.   Registration Form: An owner or caretaker of a dog determined to be
potentially dangerous, dangerous or vicious by animal control must execute a
registration form with animal control which includes the following information:
      1.   Name, address, and telephone number of the owner or caretaker,
including proof that the owner or caretaker is over the age of eighteen (18)
years;
      2.   Name and detailed physical description of the regulated dog;
      3.   A photograph of the dog taken by animal control;
      4.   Registration number assigned by animal control to the dog;
      5.   Veterinarian information for the dog;
      6.   Proof of a current rabies vaccination number and expiration date (a
copy of which must be retained by animal control);
      7.   City license number (a copy of which must be retained by animal
control);
      8.   Microchip or tattoo number as provided by subsection D of this
section;
      9.   Detailed description of the incident or incidents leading animal
control to classify the dog as regulated; and
      10.   Sufficient proof that the applicant has proper facilities where the
animal can safely be kept to prevent it from getting loose ("proper facilities"
means secure confinement indoors or secure outdoor confinement in a locked pen
or structure at least six feet (6') in width, twelve feet (12') in length, and
six feet (6') in height, which is capped and has solid flooring to prevent the
dog from digging out).
   C.   Registration Fee And Proof Of Insurance: In addition to completion of
the registration form, an owner or caretaker of a regulated dog must pay a
registration fee in an amount determined from time to time by resolution of the
city council to register the dog with animal control and provide proof of
liability insurance to animal control totaling a minimum of three hundred
thousand dollars ($300,000.00) which will provide coverage for injuries,
damages or loss that may be caused by the animal. Failure to pay the
registration fee or to provide proof of insurance will result in denial of
registration.
   D.   Permanent Identification: The registration number assigned by animal
control under this section shall be affixed to the regulated dog by permanent
microchip implant or tattoo by a licensed veterinarian or other person
acceptable to the city, at the applicant's expense. No person shall remove or
alter such identification once it is affixed.
   E.   Issuance Of Registration Certificate: If all requirements of this
section are met, the applicant will be issued a registration certificate
entitling them to own, maintain, possess, or shelter the regulated dog within
city limits.
   F.   Prohibition On Registration For Owners With Prior Convictions: An
applicant who has previously been convicted of, or has pled guilty, no contest,
or the equivalent to, an offense under Iowa Code 717D.2, who has been convicted
of a violation of section
5-1B-5 of this article, or who has pled guilty, no contest, or the equivalent
with respect to any such offense or violation, shall not be permitted to
register a dog under this section.
   G.   Exception For Veterinarians And Shelters: The provisions of this
section will not apply to any licensed veterinarian or animal shelter providing
services in such capacity.
   H.   Renewal Of Registration: A registration certificate issued pursuant to
this section must be renewed annually. The owner or caretaker of the regulated
dog may renew the certificate for an additional twelve (12) months following
expiration of the current registration certificate, provided that he or she
pays the registration fee in an amount determined from time to time by
resolution of the city council, provides proof of current insurance, and
updates any registration information previously provided.
   I.   Additional Notification Responsibilities:
      1.   An owner or caretaker of a dog registered as potentially dangerous,
dangerous or vicious must contact animal control immediately if the dog is
loose or not confined, has attacked another domestic animal, or has attacked a
human being.
      2.   An owner or caretaker of a dog registered as potentially dangerous,
dangerous or vicious must contact animal control within forty eight (48) hours
of the dog's death. Documentation from a veterinarian or physical proof that
the dog is deceased will need to be provided to animal control.
      3.   An owner or caretaker of a dog registered as potentially dangerous,
dangerous or vicious must contact animal control within forty eight (48) hours
if the dog has been sold, relocated or given away and shall provide animal
control with the name, address, and telephone number of the new owner or
caretaker of the dog.
      4.   An owner or caretaker of a regulated dog must notify animal control
of any change of address within fourteen (14) days after the change.
   J.   Spay/Neuter: An owner or caretaker of a dog registered as potentially
dangerous, dangerous or vicious must have the animal spayed or neutered within
thirty (30) days of issuance of the registration certificate and provide
documentary proof of same to animal control within ten (10) days of the
procedure. If the owner or caretaker fails to spay or neuter the dog, then
animal control may seize it, and, in appropriate circumstances as determined by
animal control, the dog may be destroyed or disposed of by sale or by donation
to a suitable animal shelter or rescue organization.
   K.   Conditional Removal Of Registration Requirement: If, within three (3)
years of registration as a potentially dangerous dog, there have been no
further incidents that satisfy the standards for such dog to be deemed
potentially dangerous, the dog's registration requirement may be reviewed by
animal control upon the owner's request. If animal control chooses to lift the
registration requirement, the dog in question may still be declared potentially
dangerous, dangerous or vicious at any future date if it meets the standards
for classification as such. In the event that animal control chooses to
maintain the registration requirement for the dog, such decision shall be
appealable to the city council.
   L.   Automatic Enhancement Of Regulated Status: After registration as a
potentially dangerous dog, if a dog is found to have further demonstrated the
behavior of a potentially dangerous dog at least two (2) times within any
consecutive twelve (12) month period, such dog will automatically be deemed a
dangerous dog and be subject to section
5-1B-5 of this article. If a dog has been registered as a potentially dangerous
dog or a dangerous dog and at any time thereafter kills or causes serious
injury to a person or domestic animal ("serious injury" meaning any injury
resulting in broken bones or lacerations requiring multiple sutures) and no
exception is applicable, said dog will automatically be deemed a vicious dog
subject to section
5-1B-5 of this article.
   M.   Appeal Procedure; Compliance With Order: Any person or entity desiring
to appeal a notice or order issued by the animal control officer pursuant to
this section shall follow the appeal procedures of section
5-1-13 of this chapter. If the city council affirms the notice or order, the
owner must complete the registration process pursuant to this section within
seven (7) days of the city council's finding. Failure to do so will subject the
owner or caretaker to the provisions set forth in subsection A of this section
and in section
5-1B-12 of this article. (Ord. 5204, 3-10-2014; amd. Ord. 5684, 1-17-2023)
5-1B-8: TETHERING OF DOGS:
   A.   A dog may be restrained outdoors by tether, only on the property of the
owner or caretaker of the dog, and only under the following conditions:
      1.   No tether may be attached to a fixed object unless the tether is so
placed or attached that it cannot become entangled with another animal or
object, and cannot extend over an object or edge that could result in
strangulation of or injury to the animal, and shall be of sufficient length in
proportion to the size of the animal, but no less than ten feet (10') in
length, to allow the animal proper exercise and unlimited access to adequate
feed, adequate water, and an outdoor facility that provides adequate protection
from the elements. Such tethering shall be so located so as not to allow such
animal to trespass on public property or upon private property belonging to
others, nor in such manner as to cause harm or danger to persons, the tethered
animal, or other animals.
      2.   The tether shall not weigh more than one-eighth (1/8) of the
animal's body weight.
      3.   The tether must be attached to a properly fitting collar or harness
worn by the animal. Choke or prong collars are prohibited. The tether must have
a swivel at both ends.
      4.    When the temperature falls below thirty degrees Fahrenheit (30°F),
with wind chill factor applied, or when the heat index is at least eighty-five
degrees (85°), no animal may be restrained outdoors by tethering for more than
fifteen (15) minutes without access to adequate food, adequate water, and an
outdoor facility that provides adequate protection from the elements. In any
circumstances, a tethered animal must have access to an outdoor facility that
provides adequate protection from the elements. (Ord. 5204, 3-10-2014; amd.
Ord. 5684, 1-17-2023)
5-1B-9: DOG ATTACKS:
In the event of an attack on a person or a domestic animal by a dog that was
previously determined to be a vicious dog or that is determined to be a vicious
dog as a result of such an attack, the dog shall be seized by animal control.
The dog will be tested for rabies and may be destroyed by the city without
further action or possibility of appeal. The owner or caretaker will be charged
all fees and charges incurred as set forth in subsection
5-1-1E of this chapter and all costs incident to the destruction of the dog.
(Ord. 5204, 3-10-2014; amd. Ord. 5684, 1-17-2023; Ord. 5749, 2-5-2024)
5-1B-10: IRRESPONSIBLE DOG OWNERS:
   A.   Any person who has been convicted of any violation of this article, or
who has pled guilty, no contest, or the equivalent to such violation, at least
two (2) times in any period of twelve (12) months shall be deemed an
irresponsible dog owner and shall be prohibited from obtaining a license for
any dog not already licensed by such person, and if such person is so convicted
or so pleads a third time during a twelve (12) month period, the person shall
forfeit all right to own or possess a dog in the city, at which time animal
control shall be authorized to seize all dogs owned or possessed by such person
and to dispose of the dogs by destruction or, in appropriate circumstances as
determined by animal control, by sale or by donation to a suitable animal
shelter or rescue organization. Violation of this subsection shall constitute a
misdemeanor and be punishable by a fine of not less than an amount determined
from time to time by resolution of the city council, or constitute a municipal
infraction.
   B.   A person designated as an irresponsible dog owner who is not convicted
or does not plead to a further violation of this article for a period of thirty
six (36) months may apply to animal control to have the designation removed.
The decision of animal control is appealable to the city council according to
the appeal procedures set forth in section
5-1-13 of this chapter. (Ord. 5204, 3-10-2014; amd. Ord. 5684, 1-17-2023)
5-1B-11: LANDLORD LIABILITY:
   A.   A landlord or its property manager that knowingly permits a tenant or
occupant of its property to possess a dog in violation of section
5-1B-4,
5-1B-5 or
5-1B-10 of this article shall be guilty of a municipal infraction.
   B.   A landlord or its property manager shall not be guilty of a violation
of subsection A of this section if it takes prompt action to notify the tenant
or occupant that the dog must be permanently removed from the property within
seven (7) days of notice as set forth in Iowa Code section 562A.27, and
thereafter proceeds to terminate the lease and evict the tenant or occupant if
the violation is not remedied.
   C.   Whenever animal control or the city clerk issues a notice, order or
decision in connection with a violation of section
5-1B-4,
5-1B-5 or
5-1B-10 of this article to a person who is not the owner of the property, a
copy of said notice, order or decision shall also be sent to the property owner
at the tax statement address shown in the records of the county auditor. The
failure of animal control or the city clerk to issue a copy of any notice,
order or decision to the property owner, or the failure of the property owner
to receive same, shall not be a defense to any violation of subsection A of
this section.
   D.   Landlords are responsible for any fees charged for removal of abandoned
animals or animals left at a property due to eviction or a tenant's extended
illness or death. (Ord. 5204, 3-10-2014; amd. Ord. 5684, 1-17-2023)
5-1B-12: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Failure To Comply:
      1.   Except as set forth in subsection
5-1B-7A of this article, if the city council affirms a notice or order of the
animal control officer, the city council may also order in its written decision
that the person or entity owning, sheltering, harboring or keeping such
dangerous animal or regulated dog permanently remove such animal or dog from
the city or destroy it; provided that dangerous dogs and vicious dogs must be
destroyed and may not be removed. The decision and order shall immediately be
served upon the person or entity against whom rendered in the same manner as
the initial notice or order.
      2.   In any situation where permanent removal of an animal or dog from
the city is permitted, the animal or dog will not be released to the owner or
caretaker until the owner or caretaker executes a form provided by the city
which includes the following: a) identifying information for the animal or dog,
b) the location to which it will be removed, and c) the date of removal. The
owner must also pay all fees and charges of impoundment, as set forth in
subsection
5-1-1E of this chapter, before the animal or dog will be released and the bond,
if any, lifted. If within seven (7) days after issuance of the order the owner
or caretaker fails to complete the application for removal and pay such fees
and charges, fails to petition the district court for review of the order, or
otherwise fails to take action, then animal control shall cause the animal or
dog to be destroyed in a humane manner.
      3.   If instead of removal the animal or dog is ordered destroyed by the
city council and the owner fails to file a petition for review of the order
with the district court within seven (7) days after its issuance, the animal or
dog will be destroyed in a humane manner.
      4.   As an alternative to the destruction of an animal or dog it may, in
appropriate circumstances as determined by animal control, be disposed of by
sale or by donation to a suitable animal shelter or rescue organization.
   B.   Penalties:
      1.   Unless a different penalty is specifically prescribed by any section
of this article, in which case such penalty shall apply, the failure to comply
with an order of the city council issued pursuant to this article shall
constitute a misdemeanor and be punishable by a fine of not less than an amount
determined from time to time by resolution of the city council, or constitute a
municipal infraction.
      2.   For purposes of determining the civil penalty applicable to
subsequent municipal infraction offenses, any violation of this article that
occurs after the first offense is a subsequent offense, even if the violations
are of different provisions of this article. (Ord. 5204, 3-10-2014; amd. Ord.
5684, 1-17-2023)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Offenses Involving Officials
5-2-2: Sniffing Glue And Other Chemical Substances
5-2-3: Exposing Poisonous Substances
5-2-4: Disorderly Conduct
5-2-5: Disorderly Houses; Wrongful Drinking Establishments
5-2-6: Discharging Weapons
5-2-7: Amplifiers, Loudspeakers And Similar Devices
5-2-8: Peeping
5-2-9: Urinating In Public
5-2-10: Trespassing
5-2-11: Vehicles On Flood Control Levees
5-2-12: Drug Paraphernalia
5-2-13: Fireworks
5-2-14: Pedestrian Safety; Use Of Medians
5-2-1: OFFENSES INVOLVING OFFICIALS:
   A.   Resisting Police Officer: No person shall resist any police officer in
the discharge of his duties.
   B.   Interference With Peace Officers: No person shall interfere with any
peace officer in the discharge of his duties by preventing, or attempting to
prevent, delay or hinder him in the discharge of his duties.
   C.   Impersonating Police Officer: No person shall falsely masquerade as,
falsely hold himself out as, or falsely represent himself to be a police
officer of the City.
   D.   Misrepresentation To Gain Entrance To Premises: If any person shall
gain entrance to any house, home, store or other structure within the City
through or by reason of falsely representing himself as a City employee, with
proper authority to gain entry, he shall be guilty of a Municipal infraction
and punished as provided in subsection
1-3-2C of this Code. Each violation of the provisions hereof shall be and
constitutes a separate offense. (Rev. Ord. 1168, Comp. 1941, p. P-4)
5-2-2: SNIFFING GLUE AND OTHER CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES:
No person shall, for the purpose of causing a condition of intoxication,
euphoria, excitement, exhilaration, stupefaction or dulling of the senses or
nervous system, smell or inhale the fumes from any model glue or cement, hair
spray, inhalers and other solvents or chemicals having the property of
releasing toxic vapors; however, this section shall not apply to the inhalation
of any medicine or anesthesia for medical or dental purposes. (Ord. 4292, 4-27-
1998)
5-2-3: EXPOSING POISONOUS SUBSTANCES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to expose any poison or poisonous meat, or
any poisonous substance in any place in the City outside of his own residence,
or where it may endanger life by being taken and used by any person, or to so
expose any such poison or poisonous substance where it may be taken by any dog,
hog, cat or other animal or living thing in the City. (Ord. 4292, 4-27-1998)
5-2-4: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
   A.   Accosting: It shall be unlawful for any person to at any time or place
in the City accost any other person with uninvited and offensive, improper
proposals or attentions, or who shall, by his improper conversation or conduct,
annoy or hinder any other person in the ordinary and proper conduct of their
affairs.
   B.   Disturbing The Peace Or Quiet: It shall be unlawful for any person to
disturb or aid in disturbing the peace, quiet or good order of, or to disrupt,
or to aid in disrupting, any person, school, church, assembly, place or
meeting, public or private by any of the following acts:
      1.   By an act of violence or by any act likely to produce violence.
      2.   By causing, provoking or engaging in any fight, brawl, or riotous
conduct so as to endanger the life, limb, health or property of another.
      3.   By engaging in threatening behavior.
      4.   By making any unreasonably loud noise by any means including the
blowing of horns, ringing of bells, squealing of tires and use of electronic
devices.
      5.   By addressing any language or threats to any person present which
creates a clear and present danger of violence.
      6.   By assembling or congregating with others in such a manner and for
the purpose of preventing or interfering with another's pursuit of a lawful
occupation, public duty or the ordinary conduct of a business, private or
public.
Nothing herein contained shall be held to prohibit peaceful picketing, public
speaking, the ordinary conduct of a legitimate business, or other lawful
expressions of opinion not in contravention of the laws. (Ord. 4292, 4-27-1998)
5-2-5: DISORDERLY HOUSES; WRONGFUL DRINKING ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   Any building, room or place within the corporate limits of the city,
where gaming or gambling of any kind is allowed or carried on, all houses or
places of ill fame, or where persons resort for the purpose of prostitution or
places resorted to for the use of any illegal drugs, or places where
prescription drugs are illegally kept, sold or given away, are hereby declared
disorderly houses and prohibited, and shall be suppressed, and the keepers and
inmates and solicitors thereof punished as hereinafter provided.
   B.   Any building, room or place within the city where intoxicating liquor
or beer is illegally kept, sold or given away is hereby declared to be a
wrongful drinking establishment and prohibited, and shall be suppressed and the
keepers and inmates and solicitors thereof punished as hereinafter provided in
subsection D of this section.
   C.   Any person found in any building, room, or place as defined in
subsection A or B of this section, resorting thereto, shall be considered an
inmate thereof within the meaning of subsection D of this section, and their
presence in any such building, room or place at any hour of the day or night,
shall be prima facie evidence that they are inmates; all persons who knowing
the character and reputation of such places, transport others to or from any
building, room or place shall be considered a solicitor thereof, and shall be
guilty of a municipal infraction and punished as provided in subsection
1-3-2C of this code. Each violation of the provisions hereof shall be and
constitute a separate offense.
   D.   If any person shall be guilty of keeping or maintaining a building,
room, or place as described in subsection A or B of this section, shall be an
inmate thereof, or in any way connected with, or in any way contribute to the
support of, or knowingly own or be interested as proprietor or landlord in any
such building, room, or place, he shall be guilty of a municipal infraction as
set forth in subsection
1-3-2C of this code. Each violation of the provisions hereof shall be and
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 4292, 4-27-1998)
5-2-6: DISCHARGING WEAPONS:
   A.   Discharge Of Firearms:
      1.   No person shall discharge any firearm within the city, except peace
officers in the line of duty or peace officers using a police target range,
airport, or animal control employees of the city acting in the scope of their
employment for wildlife control; however, the city council may, upon written
application, grant annual permits to groups, organizations or individuals
approved by the city council, allowing the permittees to conduct trapshoots,
skeet shoots or rifle ranges in certain areas designated by the permit and
under conditions that will in no way endanger persons or property, and under
the supervision of the permittee. Persons discharging firearms upon the areas
designated in the permit and while under the supervision of a permittee shall
not be subject to the terms of this section. The city council may revoke its
permit at any time at its discretion, where discharge of firearms under a
permit, in its opinion, constitutes a nuisance or in any way endangers persons
or property. (Ord. 5306, 9-28-2015)
      2.   Subsection A1 of this section shall not apply to the discharge of
pistols and shotguns in the course of hunting game on land devoted to
agricultural use, containing forty (40) acres or more, and not closer than two
hundred (200) yards to any building inhabited by people or domestic livestock
unless the owner or tenant has given consent and under conditions that will in
no way endanger persons or property.
      3.   No shotgun slugs shall be discharged within the city, except by
airport employees of the city acting in the scope of their employment for
wildlife control. (Ord. 5220, 6-2-2014)
   B.   Discharging And Possessing Air Rifles And Similar Devices; Exception:
      1.   No person shall discharge or carry on or about his person or in a
vehicle, any air rifles, pellet guns, slingshots, or similar devices capable of
discharging any leaden or other dangerous missile or substance within the city,
except peace officers in the line of duty. However, it shall be lawful to carry
one or more unloaded air rifles, pellet guns, slingshots or similar devices if
the unloaded weapon is carried in a gun case or closed container which is too
large to be effectively concealed on the person or within the clothing of an
individual. (Ord. 4912, 6-16-2008)
      2.   Subsection B1 of this section shall not apply to licensed bow
hunters engaged in deer hunting from the second Monday in October to January 10
of the following year in the Leonard Katoski Greenbelt Park, on other city
property as may be authorized by city officials from time to time, or on
private property, as allowed by the Iowa department of natural resources under
its special deer management zone procedures. During October hunting shall only
be allowed during weekday mornings until twelve o'clock (12:00) noon. However,
no bow may be displayed within six hundred feet (600') of any residence without
the permission of the property owner, or on city property except as stated
above, or within seventy five feet (75') of any bike trail, nature trail, other
recreational facility or any other area posted as a no hunting area. (Ord.
5071, 9-6-2011)
      3.   Subsection B1 of this section shall not apply to a public health
technician, who is in possession of a fur harvester license and under the
oversight of a health officer, from May 1 until October 1 each year. The public
health technician may use a pellet rifle to control burrowing animals only on
the city of Waterloo flood dike system.
      4.   Subsection B1 of this section shall not apply to any person with a
valid fishing license engaged in fishing with the use of a bow and arrow during
time periods permitted by state law, provided that the following restrictions
are complied with:
         a.   The arrow must be constructed of a solid shaft and equipped with
a heavy fishing point. Arrows designed for flight through the air are not
permitted;
         b.   The arrow shall be tethered to a line or cord no more than twenty
feet (20') in length and having a test strength greater than or equal to a
fifty (50) pound test line;
         c.   The bow used to propel the arrow must be one that is hand pulled
and hand released. Crossbows and draw locking mechanisms are prohibited;
         d.   Any person bow fishing shall always shoot the tethered arrow
directly into the water;
         e.   Fish, once taken, shall not be returned to any waters, nor shall
fish of any kind be left on the banks of any waters or any public or private
property;
         f.   Persons shall not bow fish within three hundred feet (300') of a
dwelling house, place of business, or other structure likely to be occupied by
people, any boat dock, pier, or restricted or residential areas, or the outside
limits of any marked or designated swimming area;
         g.   All bow fishing must take place from a boat. Bow fishing is not
allowed from the bank, any boat dock, or while wading;
         h.   Persons under the age of fifteen (15) shall be accompanied by a
person of legal age. (Ord. 4912, 6-16-2008)
5-2-7: AMPLIFIERS, LOUDSPEAKERS AND SIMILAR DEVICES 1 :
   A.   No person shall use or employ upon or over the streets or alleys, or in
any public park or outdoor public meeting place within the city, nor on or near
the exterior of any private dwellings, business buildings or other structures
within the city, nor upon any vacant lot, any amplifiers, loudspeakers or any
other similar device, which shall in any degree or to any extent magnify the
human voice or any other sound, without first obtaining a permit therefor.
   B.   Permits required by subsection A of this section may be issued by the
mayor, upon approval by the city council and within their discretion, upon
application, but, if issued, the permit shall be issued without charge. The
permit, if issued, shall be for a specified time, but in no event for longer
than one year, and shall embrace only a particular use or type of use, and
shall be subject to revocation at any time.
   C.   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed as in any way
limiting the use of any amplifier, loudspeaker or other similar device within
any theater, auditorium, schoolhouse or any other fully enclosed structure
within the city, and nothing contained in this section shall be considered as a
bar to the abatement of any common law nuisance. (Ord. 4292, 4-27-1998)
 
Notes
  1. See also sections
1 4-5-4 and
  4-5-5 of this code.
5-2-8: PEEPING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to look into or loiter around any window or
opening of or within any building in order to watch or observe any occupant
thereof for any unlawful or wrongful purpose. (Ord. 4486, 6-11-2001)
5-2-9: URINATING IN PUBLIC:
It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate in or on any public or common
property (including, but not limited to, streets, alleys, sidewalks, golf
courses, pools or parks, excluding a public restroom) or to urinate in a place
where the person could reasonably expect to be viewed by members of the public.
(Ord. 4292, 4-27-1998)
5-2-10: TRESPASSING:
   A.   Definitions:
PROPERTY: Includes any land, dwelling, building, conveyance, vehicle or other
temporary or permanent structure whether publicly or privately owned.
TRESPASS: One or more of the following acts:
      1.   Entering upon or in property without the express permission of the
owner, lessee or person in lawful possession with the intent to commit a public
offense, to use, remove therefrom, alter, damage, harass or place thereon or
therein anything animate or inanimate, or to hunt, fish or trap on or in the
property. This subsection A does not prohibit the unarmed pursuit of game or
furbearing animals lawfully injured or killed which come to rest on or escape
to the property of another.
      2.   Entering or remaining upon or in property without justification
after being notified or requested to abstain from entering or to remove or
vacate therefrom by the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or the
agent or employee of the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or by
any peace officer, magistrate, or public employee whose duty it is to supervise
the use or maintenance of the property.
      3.   Entering upon or in property for the purpose or with effect of
unduly interfering with the lawful use of the property by others.
      4.   Being upon or in property and wrongfully using, removing therefrom,
altering, damaging, harassing, or placing thereon or therein anything animate
or inanimate, without the implied or actual permission of the owner, lessee or
person in lawful possession.
"Trespass" shall not mean entering upon the property of another for the sole
purpose of retrieving personal property which has accidentally or inadvertently
been thrown, fallen, strayed or blown onto the property of another, provided
that the person retrieving the property takes the most direct and accessible
route to and from the property to be retrieved, quits the property as quickly
as it is possible, and does not unduly interfere with the lawful use of the
property.
   B.   Penalty For Trespassing: Any person who knowingly trespasses upon the
property of another shall be guilty of a municipal infraction and punished as
provided in subsection
1-3-2C of this code. Each violation of the provisions hereof shall be and
constitutes a separate offense. (Ord. 4292, 4-27-1998)
5-2-11: VEHICLES ON FLOOD CONTROL LEVEES:
No person shall operate a vehicle, motor vehicle, motorcycle, go- cart or
snowmobile on any flood control levee relating or adjacent to the Cedar River,
Black Hawk Creek, Virden Creek or any other streams, reservoirs and ponding and
drainage areas in the flood control program of the city; nor shall any person
deface, remove or interfere with any buildings or improvements of any kind on
such areas. (Ord. 4340, 2-22-1999)
5-2-12: DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   Definition:
      1.   For purposes of this section, "drug paraphernalia" means all
equipment, products and materials of any kind which are used, intended for use
or designed for use in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing,
testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing into the human body a
controlled substance, as defined in Iowa Code, chapter 124, controlled
substances. The term includes, but is not limited to:
         a.   Kits used, intended for use or designed for use in the planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of plant which
is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can be derived.
         b.   Kits used, intended for use or designed for use in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing controlled
substances.
         c.   Isomerization devices used, intended for use or designed for use
in increasing the potency of any species of plant, which is a controlled
substance.
         d.   Testing equipment used, intended for use or designed for use in
identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of controlled
substances.
         e.   Scales and balances used for use in weighing or measuring
controlled substances.
         f.   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine, hydrochloride,
manitol, mannite, dextrose, and lactose, used, intended for use or designed for
use in cutting controlled substances.
         g.   Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use or designed
for use in removing twigs and seeds from or in otherwise cleaning or refining
marijuana.
         h.   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used,
intended for use or designed for use in compounding controlled substances.
         i.   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used, intended
for use or designed for use in packaging small quantities of controlled
substances.
         j.   Containers and other objects used, intended for use or designed
for use in storing or concealing controlled substances.
         k.   Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used, intended for
use or designed for use in parenterally injecting controlled substances into
the human body.
         l.   Objects used, intended for use or designed for use in ingesting,
inhaling or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish or hashish oil
into the human body, such as:
            (1)   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic
pipes with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads or punctured
metal bowls.
            (2)   Water pipes.
            (3)   Carburetion tubes and devices.
            (4)   Smoking and carburetion masks.
            (5)   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning material
such as a marijuana cigarette that has become too small or too short to be held
in the hand.
            (6)   Miniature cocaine spoons, and cocaine vials.
            (7)   Chamber pipes.
            (8)   Carburetor pipes.
            (9)   Electric pipes.
            (10)   Air driven pipes.
            (11)   Chillums.
            (12)   Bongs.
            (13)   Ice pipes or chillers.
            (14)   A mesh pad or sponge composed of metal and/or metal alloys
made for cleaning, but when cut into pieces is used as a filter for smoking
crack cocaine. Such items shall not be considered drug paraphernalia when sold
in the manufacturer's original packaging.
            (15)   Drug stems, meaning a two (2) to six inch (6") long tube,
one-eighth inch (1/8") to three-fourths inch (3/4") in diameter and that is
made of glass, metal, or ceramic or any other material. Drug stems include, but
are not limited to, glass vials or tubes which may contain novelty items of
insignificant value or may contain items that are not, in the normal course of
business, packaged in such a manner. (Ord. 4826, 7-24-2006)
      2.   In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia, a court or
other authority may consider, in addition to all other logically relevant
factors, the following:
         a.   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use.
         b.   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner, or of anyone in control
of the object, under any state or federal law relating to any controlled
substance.
         c.   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct
violation of this section.
         d.   The proximity of the object to controlled substances.
         e.   The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the
object.
         f.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner, or
of anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom he knows, or
should reasonably know, intend to use the object to facilitate a violation of
this section. The innocence of an owner, or of anyone in control of the object,
as to a direct violation of this section shall not prevent a finding that the
object is intended for use or designed for use as drug paraphernalia.
         g.   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object
concerning its use.
         h.   Descriptive materials accompanying the object, which explain or
depict its use.
         i.   National and local advertising concerning its use.
         j.   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale.
         k.   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products.
         l.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
object to the total sales of the business enterprise.
         m.   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community.
         n.   Expert testimony concerning its use.
   B.   Possession And Delivery: It is unlawful for any person to use or to
possess with intent to use drug paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate,
grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test,
analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or
otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled substance in violation of
this section.
It is unlawful for any person to deliver, possess with intent to deliver or
manufacture with intent to deliver drug paraphernalia, knowing, or under
circumstances where one reasonably should know, that it will be used to plant,
propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce,
process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject,
ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled
substance in violation of this section.
   C.   Delivery To Minors: Any person eighteen (18) years of age or over who
violates subsection B of this section by delivering drug paraphernalia to a
person under eighteen (18) years of age who is at least three (3) years his
junior is guilty of a special offense. (Ord. 4399, 12-13-1999)
   D.   Penalties: Any person who violates this section is guilty of a
Municipal infraction, and upon conviction shall be subject to a civil penalty
as provided in subsection 1-3-2C of this Code, in addition to any alternative
relief ordered by the court. (Ord. 4399, 12-13-1999; amd. 2001 Code)
5-2-13: FIREWORKS:
   A.   Definition: The sale and use of fireworks is subject to the definitions
enumerated in Iowa Code sections 100.19 and 727.2, as amended, which
definitions are incorporated herein by this reference.
   B.   Prohibitions And Use:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or explode any consumer
fireworks within the corporate limits of the City of Waterloo except on July 4
of each year between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. Any additional days of allowed use may be designated by
resolution of council if adopted between the dates of January 1 and March 1 of
each year to apply the same calendar year. This section shall not apply to
novelty fireworks as defined by Iowa Code section 727.2.
      2.   The use of consumer fireworks that mimic display fireworks or rise
to one hundred fifty (150) decibels or to two hundred ten feet (210') elevation
is banned from use at all times within the corporate limits of the City of
Waterloo unless the user has obtained a permit as provided in subsection D
below.
      3.   Consistent with the Code of Iowa, use of fireworks within the
corporate limits of the City of Waterloo, when such occurs on July 4, shall
only occur on the user's owned real property, or on real property where the
owner has given consent prior to use. Use of fireworks, unless a permit has
been obtained, is not allowed on city-owned property, public sidewalks, rights
of way, streets, parks, or parking lots.
      4.   It shall be prohibited to direct the use of consumer fireworks in
any direction other than onto the user's owned real property or the real
property where the owner has given prior consent.
      5.   All consumer firework debris shall be removed from the user's real
property or wherever such use has resulted in its debris being located.
   C.   Exceptions: This section shall not apply to the use of blank cartridges
for a show or the theater, for signal purposes in athletic sports or by
railroads or trucks for signal purposes, or by a recognized military
organization, or for use in military funerals. Provided further, this section
does not apply to any substance or composition prepared and sold for medicinal
or fumigation purposes.
   D.   Enforcement:
      1.   Citations for violations of this section 5-2-13 shall be directed to
the person observed/found to have committed the violation or the owner of real
property on which the evidence of violation exists. Furthermore, where evidence
of violation of noise or nuisance ordinances exists, such citations may also be
written.
      2.   The vendors of fireworks shall be monitored during sales periods as
to type of consumer fireworks sold and for compliance with subsection 5-2-13
(F).
   E.   Permit: Subsection B of this section shall not apply to anyone who has
applied in writing and has received approval from the Council for the use of
consumer fireworks or display fireworks anywhere in the City on any date when
the fireworks display will be handled by a professional operator, as referenced
in section
9-2C-4 of this code.
   F.   Sales: A seller of consumer fireworks must possess a license from the
State Fire Marshal. Any retailer or community group selling consumer fireworks
must prominently display, at the entrance and exit sites, signs informing
customers that the use of consumer fireworks is prohibited within the corporate
limits of the City of Waterloo except as authorized by this section.
   G.   Violation: A violation of this section is a simple misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
(Ord. 5485, 2-18-2019; amd. Ord. 5568, 8-17-2020; Ord. 5598, 5-17-2021; Ord.
5683, 1-17-2023)
5-2-14: PEDESTRIAN SAFETY; USE OF MEDIANS:
   A.   The city council makes the following findings and adopts the following
statement of purposes of this section:
      1.   Pedestrian fatalities increased in the United States by forty-six
percent (46%) from 2009 to 2016, with the largest increases in urban arterial
streets, according to the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety.
      2.   Fifty percent (50%) of pedestrians who are struck by a vehicle
traveling at thirty (30) miles per hour are killed; as speed increases, a
higher percentage of people struck are killed, according to the U.S. Department
of Transportation, Literature Review on Vehicle Travel Speeds and Pedestrian
Injuries (2000).
      3.   The National Association of City Transportation Officials Urban
Street Design Guide (2011) states that a median or island should be at least
six (6) feet wide where pedestrians are present. This is consistent with the
Public Rights of Way Accessibility Guidelines promulgated by the United States
Access Board which specify that a pedestrian refuge in a street must have a top
surface width of six (6) feet, excluding curbs.
      4.   Section 240 of the city traffic code provides that pedestrians
crossing a street in the business district shall cross in crosswalks only. In
the ten (10) years preceding, ten (10) pedestrian fatalities have occurred in
Waterloo. There have been three hundred forty-one (341) pedestrian injuries.
      5.   The city engineer has determined based on city GIS maps and/or,
where appropriate, site visits that the intersections listed in subsection B of
this section do not have medians or islands of adequate width for pedestrian
refuge; therefore, pedestrians should be prohibited from standing, sitting or
staying in the medians at these intersections for any purpose other than to
cross the street, if crossing is lawful.
   B.   Pedestrians are prohibited from standing, sitting or staying on a
median or ramp nose for any purpose other than to cross the street, if lawful,
unless the width of the top surface of the median, excluding the curbs is at
least six (6) feet wide. This prohibition includes, but is not limited to,
medians and ramp noses on or near legs feeding the following intersections in
the city:
      E. San Marnan Drive and 218/380 Ramps.
      E. San Marnan Drive and LaPorte Road.
      Bopp Street and LaPorte Road.
      Bopp Street and Crossroads Blvd.
      Grimm Street and Crossroads Blvd.
      Pennys Street and Crossroads Blvd.
      Sears Street and Crossroads Blvd.
      Flammang Drive and Crossroads Blvd.
      Flammang Drive and Sarah Drive.
      E. San Marnan Drive and Sears Street.
      E. San Marnan Drive and Pennys Street.
      E. San Marnan Drive and Flammang Drive.
      E. San Marnan Drive and Shoppers Blvd.
      E. San Marnan Drive and Lowes Blvd.
   C.   Pedestrians are prohibited from standing, sitting or staying on a
median or ramp nose for any purpose, other than to cross the street, if lawful,
regardless of the width of the top surface of the median, or ramp nose along
the following streets or rights-of-way:
      San Marnan Drive from Texas Street to Ansborough Avenue.
      Sears Street.
      Pennys Street.
      Crossroads Blvd.
      Flammang Drive.
      Bopp Street.
   D.   Sections
5-2-14(B) and (C) do not apply to:
      1.   Police officers, peace officers and parking enforcement personnel of
the police department or employees of the fire department while performing
official duties of the city.
      2.   Employees or contractors for the city or other individuals
authorized by the city to perform construction or maintenance work on city
streets or rights-of-way, while performing construction or maintenance work on
the street provided that proper signage is used and streets are blocked off as
required by the city.
      3.   Any individual responding to an emergency in the street.
   E.   The penalties for violating this section shall be a simple misdemeanor
pursuant to section
1-3-1 of this code. (Ord. 5559, 6-8-2020)
ARTICLE A. OFFENSES INVOLVING MINORS
SECTION:
5-2A-1: Curfew
5-2A-2: Tobacco Products
5-2A-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Definitions: The term "minor" shall mean, in this section, any
unemancipated person below the age of seventeen (17) years.
   B.   Hours Of Curfew: It shall be unlawful for any minor to be or remain, or
to travel, loiter, wander, stroll or play, in or upon any of the alleys,
streets, public places, places of business, places of amusement, buildings,
vacant lots or other unsupervised places in the city between the hours of
twelve thirty o'clock (12:30) A.M. on any day and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. of
the same day.
   C.   Exceptions: The restrictions provided herein shall not apply to any
minor who is accompanied by a parent, guardian or other person charged with the
care and custody of such minor, nor shall the restriction apply to any minor
who is traveling between his home or place of residence and any approved place
of employment, or where a church, municipal or school function is being held,
or unless said minor is upon an emergency errand, or where the presence of the
minor in the place or places is connected with and required by some legitimate
business, trade, profession, or occupation in which the minor is permitted by
law to be engaged or unless the parent, guardian or other adult person
responsible for or having the legal care, custody and control of said minor
reports to the police department that said minor is in violation of subsection
B of this section without permission. Such report shall be made no later than
two (2) hours after the responsible adult, as defined in subsection D of this
section, becomes aware that the minor is in violation of subsection B of this
section.
   D.   Responsibility Of Adults: It is unlawful for any parent, guardian or
other adult person responsible for having the legal care, custody and control
of any minor to allow, permit or suffer such minor to violate the provisions of
this section.
   E.   Responsibility Of Business Establishments: It is unlawful for any
person operating a place of business or amusement to allow, permit or suffer
any minor to be in or upon any place of business or amusement operated by him
within the curfew hours set forth herein, except as otherwise provided herein.
When such owner, operator or person in charge of such place of business or
amusement finds such minor or minors on or upon the premises, he shall order
such person to leave, and if such minor refuses, the owner, operator, or other
person in charge of the place of business shall notify the police department
and inform them of the violation.
   F.   Responsibility Of Police: A police officer, upon finding a minor in
violation of this section, shall deliver the minor to an authorized juvenile
holding facility until the parent, guardian or other adult responsible for the
legal care, custody or control of the minor responds to pick up the minor, or
until the end of the curfew period.
   G.   Penalties:
      1.   Any minor who violates any of the provisions contained in this
section shall be subject to the following penalty as a simple misdemeanor. Upon
conviction or a plea of guilt of this section, a violator shall be assessed as
follows: For the first offense, a fine of not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) and eight (8) hours of community service; for the second offense, a
fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and twelve (12) hours
of community service; for the third and any subsequent offenses, a fine of not
less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and sixteen (16) hours of
community service, or a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00) and no community
service, to be determined by the court. The parent or legal guardian of the
minor shall receive notification of the offense.
      2.   Any parent, guardian, or other adult person responsible for or
having the legal care, custody, and control of any minor who allows or permits
such minor to violate any of the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
a simple misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be assessed fines as
follows: For the first offense, a fine of not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) and eight (8) hours of community service; for the second offense, a
fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and twelve (12) hours
of community service; for the third and any subsequent offenses, a fine of not
less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and sixteen (16) hours of
community service, or a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00) and no community
service, to be determined by the court. In addition to the above penalties, any
parent, guardian or adult responsible for a minor's care, custody and control
who allows or permits such minor to violate this section shall be charged a fee
for the actual costs incurred by the city in detaining, transporting,
processing, and supervising the minor prior to the minor's release to the
custody of the parent, guardian or other responsible adult. The fee shall not
exceed the actual costs incurred by the city and shall be established from time
to time as determined necessary by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 4828,
8-14-2006)
5-2A-2: TOBACCO PRODUCTS:
   A.   Definitions:
CIGARETTE: Any roll for smoking made wholly or in part of tobacco, or any
substitute for tobacco, irrespective of size or shape and irrespective of
tobacco or any substitute for tobacco being flavored, adulterated, or mixed
with any other ingredient, where such roll has a wrapper or cover made of paper
or any other material.
CIGARETTE VENDING MACHINE: Any self-service device offered for public use
which, upon insertion of a coin, coins, paper currency, or by other means,
dispenses cigarettes or tobacco products without the necessity of replenishing
the device between each vending operation.
CIGARETTE VENDOR: Any person who by contract, agreement, or ownership takes
responsibility for furnishing, installing, servicing, operating or maintaining
one or more cigarette vending machines for the purpose of selling cigarettes at
retail.
PERSON: Shall mean and include every individual, firm, association, joint stock
company, syndicate, copartnership, corporation, trustee, agency or receiver or
respective legal representative.
PLACE OF BUSINESS: Is construed to mean and include any place where cigarettes
are sold or where cigarettes are stored within the city by the holder of an
Iowa permit or kept for the purpose of sale or consumption; or if sold from any
vehicle, the vehicle on which or from which such cigarettes are sold shall
constitute a place of business.
TOBACCO PRODUCTS: Cigars; little cigars; cheroots; stogies; periques;
granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed and other smoking tobacco; snuff,
snuff flour; cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; fine cut and other chewing
tobaccos; shorts; or refuse scraps, clippings, cutting and sweepings of
tobacco, and other kinds and forms of tobacco, prepared in such manner as to be
suitable for chewing or smoking in a pipe or otherwise, or both for chewing and
smoking; but does not mean cigarette. (Ord. 4292, 4-27-1998)
   B.   Use Of Driver's License Or Nonoperator's Identification Card By
Underage Person To Obtain Cigarettes Or Tobacco Products: A person who is under
the age of eighteen (18), who alters or displays or has in the person's
possession a fictitious or fraudulently altered driver's license or
nonoperator's identification card, and who uses the license or card to violate
or attempt to violate subsection D of this section, commits a simple
misdemeanor punishable by a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00). The court
shall forward a copy of the conviction to the Iowa department of
transportation.
   C.   Unlawful To Sell To Persons Under Legal Age: A person shall not sell,
give or otherwise supply any tobacco, tobacco products or cigarettes to any
person under eighteen (18) years of age. A person, other than a retailer, who
violates this subsection, is guilty of a simple misdemeanor. For violations of
this subsection by an employee of a retailer, the scheduled fine is as follows:
 
For the first offense             $100.00
For a second offense              250.00
For a third or subsequent offense 500.00
 
   D.   Unlawful For Person Under Eighteen To Use: A person under eighteen (18)
years of age shall not smoke, use, possess, purchase or attempt to purchase any
tobacco, tobacco products or cigarettes. For violations of this subsection, the
scheduled fine is as follows and is a civil penalty, and the criminal penalty
surcharge shall not be added to the penalty nor shall the court costs be
imposed:
 
                                  $50.00, and performance of 8 hours of
For the first offense             community work requirements, unless waived by
                                  the court
For a second offense              $100.00, and performance of 12 hours of
                                  community work requirements
For a third or subsequent offense $250.00, and performance of 16 hours of
                                  community work requirements
 
   E.   Exceptions:
      1.   Possession of cigarettes or tobacco products by an individual under
eighteen (18) years of age does not constitute a violation under this section
if the individual under eighteen (18) years of age possesses the cigarettes or
tobacco products as part of the individual's employment and the individual is
employed by a person who holds a valid permit or who lawfully offers for sale
or sells cigarettes or tobacco products.
      2.   A person shall not be guilty of a violation of this section if
conduct that would otherwise constitute a violation is performed to assess
compliance with cigarette and tobacco product laws if any of the following
applies:
         a.   The compliance effort is conducted by or under the supervision of
law enforcement officers.
         b.   The compliance effort is conducted with the advance knowledge of
law enforcement officers and reasonable measures are adopted by those
conducting the effort to ensure that use of cigarettes or tobacco products by
individuals under eighteen (18) years of age does not result from participation
by any individual under eighteen (18) years of age in the compliance effort.
   F.   Revocation Or Suspension; Civil Penalty:
      1.   If a person holding a permit has wilfully violated subsection C of
this section, the city shall revoke the permit upon notice and hearing. The
permit holder shall be given ten (10) days' written notice stating the reason
for the contemplated revocation and the time and place at which the person may
appear and be heard. The notice shall be given by mailing a copy to the permit
holder's place of business as it appears on the application for permit. (Ord.
4448, 11-20-2000)
      2.   If a retailer or employee of a retailer has violated subsection D of
this section, the city, in addition to the other penalties fixed for such
violations in this section, shall assess a penalty upon the same hearing and
notice as prescribed in subsection F1 of this section as follows:
         a.   For a first violation, the retailer shall be assessed a civil
penalty in the amount of three hundred dollars ($300.00). Failure to pay the
civil penalty as ordered under this subsection shall result in automatic
suspension of the permit for a period of fourteen (14) days.
         b.   For a second violation within a period of two (2) years, the
retailer shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of one thousand five
hundred dollars ($1,500.00) or the retailer's permit shall be suspended for a
period of thirty (30) days. The retailer may select its preference in the
penalty to be applied under this subsection F2b.
         c.   For a third violation within a period of three (3) years, the
retailer shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of one thousand five
hundred dollars ($1,500.00) and the retailer's permit shall be suspended for a
period of thirty (30) days.
         d.   For a fourth violation within a period of three (3) years, the
retailer shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of one thousand five
hundred dollars ($1,500.00) and the retailer's permit shall be suspended for a
period of sixty (60) days.
         e.   For a fifth violation within a period of four (4) years, the
retailer's permit shall be revoked. (Ord. 4678, 3-22-2004)
      3.   If a permit is revoked, a new permit shall not be issued to the
permit holder for any place of business, or to any other person for the place
of business at which the violation occurred, until one year has expired from
the date of revocation, unless good cause to the contrary is shown to the
issuing authority.
      4.   Notwithstanding subsection F3 of this section, if a retail permit is
suspended or revoked under this subsection, the suspension or revocation shall
only apply to the place of business at which the violation occurred and shall
not apply to any other place of business to which the retail permit applies but
at which the violation did not occur.
      5.   The city shall report the suspension or revocation of a retail
permit under this section to the Iowa department of public health within thirty
(30) days of the suspension or revocation of the retail permit. (Ord. 4448, 11-
20-2000)
ARTICLE B. CIVIL EMERGENCIES
SECTION:
5-2B-1: Definitions
5-2B-2: Civil Emergency Declared
5-2B-3: Powers During An Emergency
5-2B-4: Violation
5-2B-5: Duration Of Civil Emergency
5-2B-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
CIVIL EMERGENCY: A civil emergency may include but not be limited to the
following:
   A.    A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual force
or violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate power to
execute such force by three (3) or more persons acting together without
authority by law.
   B.    Any natural disaster or human made calamity, including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake, technological disruption,
cyberattack, or explosion within the corporate limits of the city resulting in
the death or injury of persons or the destruction of property to such extent
that extraordinary measures must be taken to protect the public health, safety
and welfare.
   C.    Any act of war, revolt, terrorism, or hostile missile or bomb directed
at or near the city.
   D.    Any public health crisis or event of an actual or eminent outbreak, or
reasonable threat of an actual or eminent outbreak, of any infectious disease
that presents a threat to the health or safety of the residents of the city, or
threatens to unreasonably strain the medical emergency service resources
available in the city.
   E.    Any other state of public emergency that the mayor has determined
under his or her sole discretion is in active existence ,or that the Governor
of Iowa has determined. (Ord. 4937, 1-12-2009; amd. Ord. 5548, 3-16-2020)
5-2B-2: CIVIL EMERGENCY DECLARED:
   A.   When pursuant to section
5-2B-1  of this article, the mayor determines that a state of civil emergency
exists within the city, the mayor may declare a state of civil emergency by
proclamation and do any of the following if necessary:
      1.   Take command of the police and fire departments;
      2.   Govern the city; and
      3.   Exercise all emergency powers, including but not limited to those
outlined in section
5-2B-3  of this article.
   B.   The mayor pro tem may declare a civil emergency pursuant to this
section only when the mayor is mortally injured, missing, or otherwise
incapacitated. (Ord. 5548, 3-16-2020)
5-2B-3:  POWERS DURING AN EMERGENCY:
   A.   The emergency powers conferred upon the mayor pursuant to this section
shall include the power to do the following:
      1.   Direct emergency response activities by the police and fire
departments and by such emergency services personnel as the mayor may
designate.
      2.   Execute contracts for the emergency repair of public improvements.
      3.   Procure by purchase or lease or authorize procurement by purchase or
lease, property, goods, and services deemed necessary to the city’s emergency
response effort or for the repair of city buildings or facilities, or for any
other necessary public purpose.
      4.   Lease or authorize the lease of property and/or buildings deemed
necessary for the city’s emergency response effort or for the continued
operation of city government.
      5.   Order the limitation or closure of public events, gathering places,
institutions, or facilities within city limits. Order the limitation or closure
of private events, businesses, institutions, or gathering places within the
city limits only when imminently necessary for the protection of life and
property.
      6.   Order a general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the
city or to the city as a whole as the mayor deems advisable and applicable
during such hours of the day or night as the mayor deems necessary in the
interest of the public safety and welfare. A curfew shall be a prohibition
against any person or persons walking, running, loitering, standing or motoring
upon an alley, street, highway, public property or vacant premises within the
corporate limits of the city during the hours in which a curfew has been
imposed, accepting persons officially designated to perform duties with
reference to said civil emergency.
      7.   Mandate that all or any part of the city be evacuated as the mayor
deems advisable and applicable for the preservation of life or other disaster
mitigation, response or recovery.
      8.   Order that any other extraordinary measures be taken for the
preservation of health, life, or other disaster mitigation, response, or
recovery.
   B.   All powers exercised by the mayor pursuant to this section shall be in
accordance with Iowa Code Chapter 21, when possible. The mayor shall consult
with available city council members in the exercise of any powers pursuant to
this section.
   C.   The mayor shall immediately inform council members, police chief, fire
chief, city staff, and media outlets of the proclamation and any subsequent
proclamation that may be issued. (Ord. 5548, 3-16-2020)
5-2B-4:  VIOLATION:
The violation of a mayoral proclamation of emergency or of any subsidiary
proclamation thereto evidencing the exercise of emergency powers or of any rule
or order issued pursuant thereto by the mayor, or the mayor pro tem in the
absence of the mayor, or of any order issued pursuant thereto by any peace
officer or of any directive issued by designated emergency services personnel
pursuant thereto shall constitute a violation of this section and shall be
punishable as a misdemeanor as provided by section
1-3-1  of this code. (Ord. 5548, 3-16-2020)
5-2B-5:  DURATION OF CIVIL EMERGENCY:
   A.   Mayoral proclamations issued pursuant to this article shall take
immediate effect and remain in effect for not to exceed thirty (30) days from
the date of the proclamation, unless withdrawn at an earlier date by
proclamation of the mayor. Once withdrawn, all civil emergency orders imposed
by the proclamation shall cease and the mayor shall immediately cease to
exercise civil emergency powers.
   B.   The mayor may issue a subsequent proclamation declaring a civil
emergency only if the conditions giving rise to the civil emergency remain
present or an event resulting from the civil emergency arises. Subsequent
proclamations shall be in immediate effect for not more than thirty (30) days
from the date of the proclamation, unless withdrawn at an earlier date by
proclamation of the mayor.
   C.   The city council may, by resolution, order the withdraw of any
proclamation declaring a civil emergency in the event conditions giving rise to
the civil emergency are no longer present or thirty (30) days from the date of
the proclamation has passed. (Ord. 5548, 3-16-2020)
CHAPTER 3
HUMAN RIGHTS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Construction And Purpose
5-3-2: Definitions
5-3-3: Unfair Employment Practices
5-3-4: Unfair Accommodation Or Service Practices
5-3-5: Unfair Credit Practices
5-3-6: Unfair Or Discriminatory Educational Institution Practices
5-3-7: Exceptions To Sex Or Age Provisions
5-3-8: Aiding Or Abetting
5-3-9: Retaliation
5-3-10: Complaint Procedures
5-3-11: Conciliation
5-3-12: Public Hearing
5-3-13: Judicial Review
5-3-14: Sixty Day Administrative Release
5-3-15: Unfair Use Of Criminal Record In Hiring Decisions
5-3-1: CONSTRUCTION AND PURPOSE:
This chapter shall be construed broadly to effectuate its purpose, and the
purpose of the city in enacting this chapter is to:
   A.   Secure for all individuals within the city freedom from discrimination
because of race, color, religion, creed, sex, sexual orientation, gender
identity, national origin, age or mental or physical disability in connection
with employment, public accommodations, housing, credit and education; and
thereby to protect the personal dignity of these individuals, to ensure their
full productive capacities, to preserve the public safety, health and general
welfare, and to promote the interests, rights and privileges of individual
citizens within the city. (Ord. 4891, 11-13-2007)
   B.   Provide for the execution within the city of the policies embodied in
the Iowa civil rights act of 1965 and in the federal civil rights act and to
promote cooperation between the city and the state and federal agencies
enforcing those acts.
   C.   Provide, at the local level, a commission on human rights 1  dedicated
to the following: effective enforcement of this chapter; serve as a source of
information to employers, laborers, business persons, employees, tenants and
other citizens relative to various civil rights legislation and regulations;
and active assistance to prevent and eliminate the effects of discriminatory
practices. (Ord. 4064, 1-3-1995)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 10 of this code.
5-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless indicated otherwise in this chapter, the following will define the
listed words and phrases:
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: A plan whereby a set of specific, result oriented
procedures are established and to which a person makes a commitment to apply
every good faith effort. The objective of those procedures is to enhance
diversity and ensure equal opportunity in public and private employment,
housing, public accommodation, credit transactions and city contracts.
BONA FIDE OCCUPATIONAL QUALIFICATIONS (BFOQ): Discrimination on a prohibited
basis is lawful only if it results from a bona fide occupational qualification
essential to the normal operation of the employer's business or enterprise. The
BFOQ exception will be interpreted narrowly and the burden of proving that a
prohibited basis is a BFOQ rests upon the party seeking to rely upon the
exception. Customer or employer preference or historical usage, tradition or
custom or stereotyped characterizations will not merit the exception.
COMMISSION: The Waterloo human rights commission created by this chapter, and
as provided for in title 2, chapter 10 of this code.
COMPLAINANT: That person filing a complaint with the commission.
CONTRACT: Any agreement which is awarded, let, procured or entered into with,
or on behalf of, the city or any awarding authority thereof.
CONTRACTING AUTHORITY: Any city department, agency, commission, authority,
board or person, or any authorized employee, officer or director of any of the
foregoing, including any purchasing agent of the city who makes or enters into
any contract agreement for the provision of any goods or services of any kind
or nature whatsoever for and on behalf of the city.
COURT: The district court in and for Black Hawk County, Iowa, or any judge or
magistrate of said court if the court is not in session at that time.
DIRECTOR: The person selected pursuant to civil service rules and regulations,
recommended by the human rights commission, appointed by the mayor, subject to
approval by the city council, who shall have such duties, powers and authority
as may be conferred upon him by the commission, subject to the provisions of
this chapter.
DISABILITY: With respect to an individual:
   A.   A physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more
of the major life activities of such individual;
   B.   A record of such an impairment; or
   C.   Being regarded as having such an impairment.
EMPLOYEE: Any person employed by an employer.
EMPLOYER: The city of Waterloo or any political subdivision, board, commission,
department, institution or school district thereof, and every other person
employing employees within the city.
EMPLOYMENT AGENCY: Any person undertaking to procure employees or opportunities
to work for any other person or any person holding himself to be equipped to do
so.
FAMILIAL STATUS: One or more individuals under the age of eighteen (18)
domiciled with either of the following:
   A.   A parent or another person having legal custody of the individual or
individuals; or
   B.   The designee of the parent or the other person having custody of the
individual or individuals, with the written permission of the parent or other
person.
GENDER IDENTITY: A gender related identity of a person, regardless of the
person's assigned sex at birth.
LABOR ORGANIZATION: Any organization which exists for the purpose, in whole or
in part, of collective bargaining, or dealing with employers concerning
grievances, terms or conditions of employment.
PERSON: One or more individuals, partnerships, associations, corporations,
legal representatives, trustees or receivers. It also includes, but is not
limited to, any owner, lender, builder, manager, broker, salesperson, agent,
employee or lending institution; and includes all political subdivisions and
agencies of the city and any commission, authority, board or other
instrumentality of government.
PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION: Each and every place, establishment or facility of
whatever kind, nature or class that caters or offers services, facilities or
goods to the general public for a fee or charge, provided that any place,
establishment or facility that caters or offers services, facilities, or goods
to the general public gratuitously shall be deemed a public accommodation if
the accommodation receives any substantial governmental support or subsidy.
Public accommodation shall not mean any bona fide private club or other place,
establishment or facility which is by its nature distinctly private, except
when such distinctly private place, establishment or facility caters or offers
services, facilities or goods to the general public for fee or charge or
gratuity, it shall be deemed a public accommodation during such period. Public
accommodation also includes each state and local government unit or tax
supported district of whatever kind, nature or class that offers services,
facilities, benefits, grants or goods to the public, gratuitously or otherwise.
This definition shall not be construed by negative implication or otherwise to
restrict any part or portion of the preexisting definition of the term "public
accommodation".
The following private entities are considered "public accommodations" for
purposes of the Americans with disabilities act, if the operations of such
entities affect commerce:
   A.   An inn, hotel, motel or other place of lodging, except for an
establishment located within a building that contains not more than five (5)
rooms for rent or hire and that is actually occupied by the proprietor of such
establishment as the residence of such proprietor;
   B.   A restaurant, bar or other establishment serving food or drink;
   C.   A motion picture house, theater, concert hall, stadium or other place
of exhibition or entertainment;
   D.   An auditorium, convention center, lecture hall or other place of public
gathering;
   E.   A bakery, grocery store, clothing store, hardware store, shopping
center or other sales or rental establishment;
   F.   A laundromat, dry cleaner, bank, barbershop, beauty shop, travel
service, shoe repair service, funeral parlor, gas station, office of an
accountant or lawyer, pharmacy, insurance office, professional office of a
healthcare provider, hospital or other service establishment;
   G.   A terminal, depot or other station used for specified public
transportation;
   H.   A museum, library, gallery or other place of public display or
collection;
   I.   A park, zoo, amusement park or other place of recreation;
   J.   A nursery, elementary, secondary, undergraduate or postgraduate private
school or other place of education;
   K.   A daycare center, senior citizen center, homeless shelter, food bank,
adoption agency or other social service center establishment; and
   L.   A gymnasium, health spa, bowling alley, golf course or other place of
exercise or recreation.
REFERRAL: The process whereby the Iowa civil rights commission notifies the
local commission that a complaint has been filed with the state commission and
that the state is postponing its investigative activities for a period of sixty
(60) days while the local commission investigates and attempts to resolve the
matter.
RESPONDENT: That person against whom a complaint has been filed with the
commission.
RETALIATION: Any act directed at a complainant or other person with the intent
of affecting that person unfavorably because of his formal or informal efforts
to secure or aid in securing compliance with this chapter.
SEXUAL ORIENTATION: Actual or perceived heterosexuality, homosexuality, or
bisexuality.
UNFAIR PRACTICE OR DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICE: Those practices specified as unfair
or discriminatory in this chapter. (Ord. 4064, 1-3-1995; amd. Ord. 4891, 11-13-
2007)
5-3-3: UNFAIR EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES:
   A.   It shall be an unfair or discriminatory practice for any:
      1.   Person to refuse to hire, accept, register, classify or refer for
employment, to discharge any employee or to otherwise discriminate in
employment against any applicant for employment or any employee because of the
age, race, creed, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national
origin, religion or disability of such applicant or employee, unless based upon
the nature of the occupation. If a disabled person is qualified to perform a
particular occupation, by reason of training or experience, the nature of that
occupation shall not be the basis for exception to the unfair or discriminating
practices prohibited by this subsection.
      2.   Labor organization or the employees, agents or members thereof to
refuse to admit to membership any applicant, to expel any member or to
otherwise discriminate against any applicant for membership or any member in
the privileges, rights or benefits of such membership because of the age, race,
creed, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin,
religion or disability of such applicant or member.
      3.   Employer, employment agency, labor organization or the employees,
agents or members thereof, to directly or indirectly advertise or in any other
manner indicate or publicize that individuals of any particular age, race,
creed, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin,
religion or disability are unwelcome, objectionable, not acceptable or not
solicited for employment or membership unless based on the nature of the
occupation. If a disabled person is qualified to perform a particular
occupation by reason of training or experience, the nature of that occupation
shall not be the basis for exception to the unfair or discriminating practices
prohibited by this subsection.
An employer, employment agency or their employees, servants or agents may offer
employment or advertise for employment to only the disabled, when other
applicants have available to them, other employment compatible with their
ability which would not be available to the disabled because of their handicap.
Any such employment or offer of employment shall not discriminate among the
disabled on the basis of race, color, creed, sex, sexual orientation, gender
identity, or national origin. (Ord. 4891, 11-13-2007)
      4.   Person to solicit or require as a condition of employment of any
employee or prospective employee a test for the presence of the antibody to the
human immunodeficiency virus or to affect the terms, conditions or privileges
of employment or terminate the employment of any employee solely as a result of
the employee obtaining a test for the presence of the antibody to the human
immunodeficiency virus. An agreement between an employer, employment agency,
labor organization or their employees, agents, or members and an employee or
prospective employee concerning employment, pay or benefits to an employee or
prospective employee in return for taking a test for the presence of the
antibody to the human immunodeficiency virus, is prohibited. The prohibitions
of this subsection do not apply if the state epidemiologist determines and the
director of public health declares through the utilization of guidelines
established by the centers for disease control of the United States department
of health and human services, that a person with a condition related to
acquired immune deficiency syndrome poses a significant risk of transmission of
the human immunodeficiency virus to other persons in a specific occupation.
   B.   Employment policies relating to pregnancy and childbirth shall be
governed by the following:
      1.   A written or unwritten employment policy or practice which excludes
from employment applicants or employees because of the employee's pregnancy is
a prima facie violation of this chapter.
      2.   Disabilities caused or contributed to by the employee's pregnancy,
miscarriage, childbirth, and recovery therefrom are, for all job related
purposes, temporary disabilities and shall be treated as such under any health
or temporary disability insurance or sick leave plan available in connection
with employment. Written and unwritten employment policies and practices
involving matters such as the commencement and duration of leave, the
availability of extensions, the accrual of seniority and other benefits and
privileges, reinstatement and payment under any health or temporary disability
insurance or sick leave plan, formal or informal, shall be applied to a
disability due to the employee's pregnancy or giving birth, on the same terms
and conditions as they are applied to other temporary disabilities.
      3.   Disabilities caused or contributed to by legal abortion and recovery
therefrom are, for all job related purposes, temporary disabilities and shall
be treated as such under any temporary disability or sick leave plan available
in connection with employment. Written and unwritten employment policies and
practices involving matters such as the commencement and duration of leave, the
availability of extensions, the accrual of seniority and other benefits and
privileges, reinstatement and payment under any temporary disability insurance
or sick leave plan, formal or informal, shall be applied to a disability due to
legal abortion on the same terms and conditions as they are applied to other
temporary disabilities. The employer may elect to exclude health insurance
coverage for abortion from a plan provided by the employer, except where the
life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to term or
where medical complications have arisen from an abortion.
      4.   An employer shall not terminate the employment of a person disabled
by pregnancy because of the employee's pregnancy.
      5.   Where a leave is not available or a sufficient leave is not
available under any health or temporary disability insurance or sick leave plan
available in connection with employment, the employer of the pregnant employee
shall not refuse to grant to the employee who is disabled by the pregnancy a
leave of absence if the leave of absence is for the period that the employee is
disabled because of the employee's pregnancy, childbirth or related medical
conditions, or for eight (8) weeks, whichever is less. However, the employee
must provide timely notice of the period of leave requested and the employer
must approve any change in the period requested before the change is effective.
Before granting the leave of absence, the employer may require that the
employee's disability resulting from pregnancy be verified by medical
certification stating that the employee is not able to reasonably perform the
duties of employment.
   C.   This section shall not prohibit discrimination on the basis of age if
the person subject to the discrimination is under the age of eighteen (18)
years, unless that person is considered by law to be an adult.
   D.   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, a state or federal
program designed to benefit a specific age classification which serves a bona
fide public purpose shall be permissible.
   E.   This section shall not apply to age discrimination in bona fide
apprenticeship employment programs if the employee is over forty five (45)
years of age.
   F.   This section shall not apply to:
      1.   Any employer who regularly employs less than four (4) individuals.
For purposes of this subsection, individuals who are members of the employer's
family shall not be counted as employees.
      2.   The employment of individuals for work within the home of the
employer if the employer or members of the employer's family reside therein
during such employment.
      3.   The employment of individuals to render personal service to the
person of the employer or members of the employer's family. (Ord. 4064, 1-3-
1995)
      4.   Any bona fide religious institution or its educational facility,
association, corporation or society with respect to any qualifications for
employment based on religion, sexual orientation or gender identity when such
qualifications are related to a bona fide religious purpose. A religious
qualification for instructional personnel or an administrative officer, serving
in a supervisory capacity of a bona fide religious educational facility or
religious institution, shall be presumed to be a bona fide occupational
qualification. (Ord. 4891, 11-13-2007)
5-3-4: UNFAIR ACCOMMODATION OR SERVICE PRACTICES:
   A.   It shall be an unfair or discriminatory practice for any owner, lessee,
sublessee, proprietor, manager or superintendent of any public accommodation or
any agent or employee thereof:
      1.   To refuse or deny to any person because of age, race, creed, color,
sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, religion or
disability the accommodations, advantages, facilities, services or privileges
thereof, or otherwise to discriminate against any person because of age, race,
creed, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin,
religion or disability in the furnishing of such accommodations, advantages,
facilities, services, or privileges.
      2.   To directly or indirectly advertise or in any other manner indicate
or publicize that the patronage of persons of any particular age, race, creed,
color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, religion or
disability is unwelcome, objectionable, not acceptable or not solicited.
   B.   This section shall not apply to:
      1.   Any bona fide religious institution with respect to any
qualifications the institution may impose based on religion, sexual orientation
or gender identity when such qualifications are related to a bona fide
religious purpose. (Ord. 4891, 11-13-2007)
      2.   The rental or leasing to transient individuals of less than six (6)
rooms within a single housing accommodation by the occupant or owner of such
housing accommodation if the occupant or owner or members of that person's
family reside therein. (Ord. 4064, 1-3-1995)
5-3-5: UNFAIR CREDIT PRACTICES:
   A.   It shall be an unfair or discriminatory practice for any:
      1.   Creditor to refuse to enter into a consumer credit transaction or
impose finance charges or other terms or conditions more onerous than those
regularly extended by that creditor to consumers of similar economic
backgrounds because of age, color, creed, national origin, race, religion,
marital status, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, physical disability
or familial status.
      2.   Person authorized or licensed to do business in the state pursuant
to Iowa Code chapters 524, 533, 534, 536 or 536A to refuse to loan or extend
credit or to impose terms or conditions more onerous than those regularly
extended to persons of similar economic backgrounds because of age, color,
creed, national origin, race, religion, marital status, sex, sexual
orientation, gender identity, physical disability or familial status.
      3.   Creditor to refuse to offer credit, life or health and accident
insurance because of color, creed, national origin, race, religion, marital
status, age, physical disability, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, or
familial status. Refusal by a creditor to offer credit, life or health and
accident insurance based upon the age or physical disability of the consumer
shall not be an unfair or discriminatory practice if such denial is based
solely upon bona fide underwriting considerations not prohibited by Iowa Code
chapters 505 to 523H.
   B.   The provisions of this section shall not be construed by negative
implication or otherwise to narrow or restrict any other provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 4891, 11-13-2007)
5-3-6: UNFAIR OR DISCRIMINATORY EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION PRACTICES:
It shall be an unfair or discriminatory practice for any educational
institution to discriminate on the basis of race, creed, color, sex, sexual
orientation, gender identity, national origin, religion, or disability in any
program or activity. Such discriminatory practices shall include, but not be
limited to, the following practices:
   A.   Exclusion of a person or persons from participation in, denial of the
benefits of, or subjection to discrimination in any academic, extracurricular,
research, occupational training, or other program or activity except athletic
programs.
   B.   Denial of comparable opportunity in intramural and interscholastic
athletic programs.
   C.   Discrimination among persons in employment and the conditions of
employment.
   D.   On the basis of sex, the application of any rule concerning the actual
or potential parental, family or marital status of a person, or the exclusion
of any person from any program or activity or employment because of pregnancy
or related conditions dependent upon the physician's diagnosis and
certification.
For the purpose of this section "educational institution" includes any public
preschool, elementary, secondary or merged area school or area education agency
and their governing boards. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
prohibit any educational institution from maintaining separate toilet
facilities, locker rooms or living facilities for the different sexes so long
as comparable facilities are provided. Nothing in this section shall be
construed as prohibiting any bona fide religious institution from imposing
qualifications based on religion, sexual orientation or gender identity when
such qualifications are related to a bona fide religious purpose or any
institution from admitting students of only one sex. (Ord. 4891, 11-13-2007)
5-3-7: EXCEPTIONS TO SEX OR AGE PROVISIONS 1 :
   A.   The provisions of this chapter relating to discrimination because of
age do not apply to a retirement plan or benefit system of an employer unless
the plan or system is a mere subterfuge adopted for the purpose of evading this
chapter. However, a retirement plan or benefit system shall not require the
involuntary retirement of a person under the age of seventy (70) because of
that person's age. This section does not prohibit the following:
      1.   The involuntary retirement of a person who has attained the age of
sixty five (65) and has for the two (2) prior years been employed in a bona
fide executive or high policy making position and who is entitled to an
immediate, nonforfeitable annual retirement benefit from a pension, profit
sharing, savings or deferred compensation plan of the employer which equals
twenty seven thousand dollars ($27,000.00). This retirement benefit test may be
adjusted according to the regulations prescribed by the United States secretary
of labor pursuant to public law 95-256, section 3.
      2.   The involuntary retirement of a person covered by a collective
bargaining agreement which was entered into by a labor organization and was in
effect on September 1, 1977. This exemption does not apply after the
termination of that agreement or January 1, 1980, whichever first occurs.
   B.   A health insurance program provided by an employer may exclude coverage
of abortion, except where the life of the mother would be endangered if the
fetus were carried to term or where medical complications have arisen from an
abortion.
   C.   An employee welfare plan may provide life, disability or health
insurance benefits which vary by age based on actuarial differences if the
employer contributes equally for all the participating employees or may provide
for employer contributions differing by age if the benefits for all the
participating employees do not vary by age. (Ord. 4064, 1-3-1995)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 216.13.
5-3-8: AIDING OR ABETTING:
It shall be an unfair or discriminatory practice for:
   A.   Any person to intentionally aid, abet, compel or coerce another person
to engage in any of the practices declared unfair or discriminatory by this
chapter.
   B.   Any person to discriminate against another person in any of the rights
protected against discrimination on the basis of age, race, creed, color, sex,
sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, religion or disability by
this chapter because such person has lawfully opposed any practice forbidden
under this chapter, obeys the provisions of this chapter or has filed a
complaint, testified or assisted in any proceeding under this chapter. An
employer, employment agency or their employees, servants or agents may offer
employment or advertise for employment to only the disabled so long as other
applicants have available to them other employment compatible with their
ability which would not be available to the disabled because of their handicap.
Any such employment or offer of employment shall not discriminate among the
disabled on the basis of race, color, creed, sex, sexual orientation, gender
identity or national origin. (Ord. 4891, 11-13-2007)
5-3-9: RETALIATION:
   A.   It shall be an unfair or discriminatory practice for any person to
discharge, harass, penalize or otherwise retaliate against an individual
because of that individual's attempt to secure compliance with this chapter or
the remedies provided hereunder.
   B.   It shall be an unfair or discriminatory practice for any person to
discharge, harass, penalize or otherwise retaliate with respect to employment,
housing, public accommodations or financial practices against any individual
because of that individual's association with persons of a particular race,
religion, creed, color, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender
identity, disability or age. (Ord. 4891, 11-13-2007)
5-3-10: COMPLAINT PROCEDURES:
   A.   A person claiming to be aggrieved by a discriminatory practice, his
agent, the director of the commission, the city attorney or a nonprofit
organization with a purpose of combating discrimination may file with the
commission a written complaint stating that a discriminatory practice has been
committed, setting forth the facts upon which the complaint is based, and
setting forth facts sufficient to enable the commission to identify the person
charged (hereinafter the respondent). A member of the commission staff or one
or more members of the commission, as appointed by the chair, shall promptly
investigate the allegations of discriminatory practice set forth in the
complaint and shall promptly furnish the respondent with a copy of the
complaint. Prior to investigation, complainant and respondent may agree to
mediation. (Ord. 4064, 1-3-1995)
   B.   The complaint must be filed within three hundred (300) days after the
alleged discriminatory practice occurs. A complaint filed with the Iowa civil
rights commission under the provisions of the Iowa civil rights act shall be
sufficient for the purposes of this chapter, if it alleges discriminatory acts
within this city. (Ord. 5065, 8-1-2011)
   C.   If it is determined after investigation that no probable cause exists
for such complaint, the commission shall forthwith notify the complainant and
the respondent of such determination and the case shall be closed with the
commission.
   D.   If it is determined after investigation that probable cause exists for
crediting the allegations of the complaint, the commission staff shall promptly
proceed with conciliation.
   E.   The commission shall notify the Iowa civil rights commission whenever
any finding has been made with respect to any case within their jurisdiction or
whenever such case is otherwise closed.
   F.   The complaint may be amended at any time prior to the scheduling of the
complaint for a public hearing, and thereafter, only upon the consent of the
person or persons conducting the hearing. Such leave shall be freely given when
justice so requires. (Ord. 4064, 1-3-1995)
5-3-11: CONCILIATION:
   A.   Prior to a finding of probable cause, the person investigating the
complaint may enter into the mediation process with the respondent at the
respondent's request where the investigation has been sufficient for the
investigator to determine adequate remedies for the alleged discrimination.
   B.   After a finding of probable cause, the respondent shall be promptly
notified in writing of the finding and shall be informed of his right to
conciliate. The notification shall further contain a suggested place, date and
time for the conciliation meeting.
   C.   Where the conciliation results in an agreement between the respondent
and the commission, the agreement shall be in writing and shall be signed by
the respondent or the respondent's representatives and by the director of the
commission. The director shall consult with the complainant prior to signing
the agreement, and should the complainant object to the agreement, the
agreement must be presented to the commission for its approval before the
agreement may be signed. The complainant shall be given an opportunity to state
the reasons for dissatisfaction to the commission. Such reasons shall be
reduced to writing.
   D.   If, after attempts to conciliate, the person or persons directed to
conciliate shall find that conciliation efforts have failed, such failure shall
be reported in writing to the commission. If the commission determines the
charge to be well founded, it will promptly schedule the matter for public
hearing. If the commission determines the charge not to be well founded, it
shall declare the case closed and shall so notify the Iowa civil rights
commission of the failure to conciliation efforts and of the action taken.
(Ord. 4064, 1-3-1995)
5-3-12: PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   After the commission has voted to take a complaint to public hearing,
the commission shall serve on the respondent by registered or certified mail a
written notice, together with a copy of the complaint as it may have been
amended, requiring the respondent to answer in writing the allegations of the
complaint at a hearing before one or more members of the commission or a
hearing officer at a time and place specified in the notice. A copy of the
notice shall be furnished to the complainant, the Iowa civil rights commission,
and such other public officers and such other persons as the commission deems
proper.
   B.   The notice shall include:
      1.   A statement of the time, place and nature of the hearing.
      2.   A statement of the legal authority and jurisdiction under which the
hearing is to be held.
      3.   A reference to the particular sections of this chapter and rules
involved.
      4.   A short and plain statement of the matters asserted. If the
commission is unable to state the matters in detail at the time that the notice
is served, the initial notice may be limited to a statement of the issues
involved.
   C.   The hearing will be conducted by the commission, or by a hearing
officer appointed by the commission.
   D.   No person shall take part in the conducting of the hearing who has any
personal interest in its outcome, or who has taken part in the investigation of
the complaint, or has taken a position as to whether discrimination occurred
with respect to the matter in question. No commissioner who would be
disqualified under the above criteria shall take part in any vote or discussion
by the commission with respect to the complaint.
   E.   If a party fails to appear in a contested case proceeding after proper
service of notice, the person(s) conducting the hearing may proceed and make a
decision in the absence of the party.
   F.   Opportunity shall be afforded all parties to respond and present
evidence and argument on all issues involved and to be represented by counsel
at their own expense. The case for the commission may be presented by any
member of the commission staff or by an attorney from the city attorney's
office. The hearing need not be bound by the strict rules of evidence, but the
admission of evidence should be based on sound discretion as represented in the
Iowa Administrative Procedure Act section 17A.14(1).
17A.14(1). Irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence should be
excluded. A finding shall be based upon the kind of evidence on which
reasonably prudent persons are accustomed to rely for the conduct of their
serious affairs, and may be based upon such evidence even if it would be
inadmissible in a jury trial. Agencies shall give effect to the rules of
privilege recognized by law. Objections to evidentiary offers may be made and
shall be noted in the record. Subject to these requirements, when a hearing
will be expedited and the interests of the parties will not be prejudiced
substantially, any part of the evidence may be required to be submitted in
verified written form.
   G.   The record in a case shall include:
      1.   All pleadings, motions and intermediate rulings.
      2.   All evidence received or considered and all other submissions.
      3.   A statement of all matters officially noticed.
      4.   All questions and offers of proof, objections and rulings thereon.
      5.   All proposed findings and exceptions.
   H.   Oral proceedings shall be open to the public and shall be recorded
either by mechanized means or by certified shorthand reporter. Oral proceedings
or any part thereof shall be transcribed at the request of any party with the
expense of the transcription charged to the requesting party. The recording or
stenographic notes of oral proceedings or the transcription thereof shall be
filed with and maintained by the commission for at least five (5) years from
the date of decision. Notice of public hearing shall be disseminated among
local news media at least five (5) days prior to the date of the hearing.
   I.   Findings of fact shall be based solely on the evidence in the record
and on matters officially noticed in the record.
   J.   The person(s) conducting the hearing will make written findings of fact
and conclusions of law, will state in writing their determination as to whether
or not the respondent discriminated against the complainant, and their
recommended disposition, including remedies provided under subsection
2-10-5G of this code.
   K.   If the decision under subsection J of this section is made by a hearing
officer, the commission shall vote as to whether to adopt, modify or overrule
the written findings and proposed remedies. Their decision shall be by a
majority of those present and voting. Thereupon the commission shall issue a
ruling either incorporating the proposed findings and remedies as its own
stating the commission's decision or including separate findings and remedy.
Decisions shall be sent by certified mail to the parties of record. For the
purposes of this section, the date of mailing shall be considered the date of
the commission's decision.
17A.15(3). When the presiding officer makes a proposed decision, that decision
then becomes the final decision of the agency without further proceedings
unless there is an appeal to, or review on motion of, the agency within the
time provided by rule. On appeal from or review of the proposed decision, the
agency has all the power which it would have in initially making the final
decision except as it may limit the issues on notice to the parties or by rule.
In cases where there is an appeal from a proposed decision or where a proposed
decision is reviewed on motion of the agency, an opportunity shall be afforded
to each party to file exceptions, present briefs and, with the consent of the
agency, present oral arguments to the agency members who are to render the
final decision.
   (Ord. 4064, 1-3-1995)
5-3-13: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
   A.   Any aggrieved party of record shall have the right to obtain judicial
review by filing a petition for judicial review in the district court in and
for Black Hawk County in which the alleged discriminatory or unfair practice
was committed, or to the county in which any respondent resides or transacts
business.
   B.   Said proceedings shall be initiated by the filing of a petition within
thirty (30) days after the commission has issued or refused to issue a final
order. Service of the petition shall be made pursuant to Iowa Code section
17A.19. Thereafter, Iowa Code chapter 17A, and any amendments thereto, shall
control the proceedings for judicial review.
   C.   If no proceeding to obtain judicial review is instituted within thirty
(30) days from the service of an order of the commission under this section,
the commission may obtain an order of the court for the enforcement of such
order upon the showing that respondent is subject to the jurisdiction of the
commission and resides or transacts business within the county in which the
petition for enforcement is brought.
   D.   Appeal from the district court may be taken as in other civil cases,
regardless of the amount involved. (Ord. 4064, 1-3-1995)
5-3-14: SIXTY DAY ADMINISTRATIVE RELEASE:
   A.   A person claiming to be aggrieved by an unfair or discriminatory
practice must initially seek an administrative relief by filing a complaint
with the commission in accordance with this chapter. A complainant, after the
proper filing of a complaint with the commission, may subsequently commence an
action for relief in the district court if all of the following conditions have
been satisfied:
      1.   The complainant has timely filed the complaint with the commission
as provided in this chapter; and
      2.   The complaint has been on file with the commission for at least
sixty (60) days and the commission has issued a release to the complainant
pursuant to subsection B of this section.
   B.   Upon a request by the complainant, and after the expiration of sixty
(60) days from the timely filing of a complaint with the commission, the
commission shall issue to the complainant a release stating that the
complainant has a right to commence an action in the district court. A release
under this subsection shall not be issued if a finding of no probable cause has
been on the complaint, a conciliation agreement has been executed or the
commission has served notice of hearing upon the respondent pursuant to this
chapter.
   C.   An action authorized under this section is barred unless commenced
within ninety (90) days after issuance by the commission of a release under
subsection B of this section or within one year after the filing of the
complaint, whichever occurs first. If a complainant obtains a release from the
commission under subsection B of this section, the commission shall be barred
from further action on that complaint. (Ord. 4064, 1-3-1995)
5-3-15:  UNFAIR USE OF CRIMINAL RECORD IN HIRING DECISIONS:
Publisher's note: The Iowa Supreme Court Case No. 20-0575 struck down part of
Ordinance No. 5522 adopted by the city on 11/4/2019. Click here to see the
amendments to this section.
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, unless the context indicates
otherwise, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively
ascribed to them in this subsection. Except as defined in this subsection A,
definitions of words and phrases set forth in
5-3-2  shall apply in this section.
ADVERSE     A refusal to hire an applicant or the revocation of a conditional offer of
HIRING      employment to an applicant.
DECISION:
APPLICANT:  Any person considered or who requests to be considered for employment by an
            employer.
            The taking of a person into custody when and in the manner authorized by law or
ARREST:     military authority due to an accusation or suspicion that the person committed a
            crime.
            Any adjudication of guilt or sentence arising from a verdict or plea of guilty or no
CONVICTION: contest or the equivalent in relation to a crime, including a sentence of
            incarceration, a suspended sentence, a sentence of probation, a sentence of
            unconditional discharge, or a diversion program.
CRIMINAL    Information regarding a conviction, arrest or pending criminal charge.
RECORD:
            Any person, partnership, company, corporation, labor organization or association
            which regularly employs four (4) or more persons within the City of Waterloo,
            including the City of Waterloo, its departments, boards, commissions and agencies,
            except the following: (a) the United States or any of its political subdivisions,
EMPLOYER:   (b) the State of Iowa or any of its political subdivisions other than the City of
            Waterloo, such as, but not limited to, Black Hawk County, the Waterloo Community
            School District, and Hawkeye Community College, and (c) employers who are required
            by federal or state law or regulation to make an inquiry on an application or in an
            interview.
            Any occupation, vocation, job, work for pay or employment, including temporary or
EMPLOYMENT: seasonal work, contracted work, contingent work and work through the services of a
            temporary or other employment agency; or any form of vocational or educational
            training with or without pay.
            Any direct or indirect conduct intended to gather information, using any mode of
INQUIRY:    communication, including but not limited to a box or blank that seeks to elicit
            information about an applicant's criminal record on an employment application form.
INTERVIEW:  Any direct contact by the employer with the applicant, whether in person or by
            telephone, to discuss the employment being sought or the applicant's qualifications.
            A reason for which an employer may make an adverse hiring decision based on an
            applicant's criminal record, including the following:
               1.   Situations where the nature of the criminal conduct has a direct and
            substantial bearing on the fitness or ability to perform the duties or
            responsibilities of the intended employment, taking into consideration the following
            factors: the nature of the employment, the place and manner in which the employment
            will be performed, the nature and seriousness of the offense or conduct, whether the
            employment presents an opportunity for the commission of a similar offense or
            conduct, the length of time between the conviction or arrest and the application for
            employment (not including time on probation or parole or the time during which fines
            or other financial penalties or remedies may be outstanding), the number and types
LEGITIMATE  of convictions or pending charges, and any verifiable information provided by the
BUSINESS    applicant that is related to the applicant's rehabilitation or good conduct.
REASON:        2.   Situations where the granting of employment would involve unreasonable risk
            of substantial harm to property or to safety of individuals or the public, or to
            business reputation or business assets, taking into consideration the factors listed
            in paragraph 1. of this definition.
               3.   Positions working with children, developmentally disabled persons and
            vulnerable adults where the applicant has a conviction record of a crime against
            children or disabled or vulnerable adults, including but not limited to crimes of
            rape, sexual abuse, incest, prostitution, pimping, pandering, assault, domestic
            violence, kidnapping, financial exploitation, neglect, abandonment, and child
            endangerment.
               4.   Situations where an employer must comply with any federal or state law or
            regulation pertaining to background checks and the criminal conduct is relevant to
            the applicant's fitness for the job.
PENDING     An existing accusation that a person has committed a crime, lodged by a prosecutor,
CRIMINAL    law enforcement agency or military authority through an indictment, information,
CHARGE:     complaint or other formal charge, where the accusation has not yet resulted in a
            final judgment, acquittal, conviction, plea, dismissal or withdrawal.
   B.   Prohibited Use Of Criminal Record Information: In connection with the
employment of any person, it shall be an unlawful discriminatory practice for
an employer to include a criminal record inquiry on any application. It shall
further be an unlawful discriminatory practice for an employer who employs
fifteen (15) or more persons, but not private schools providing a regular
course of instruction for any part of kindergarten through high school
education, to engage in any of the following activity:
      1.   To make any inquiry regarding, or to require any person to disclose
or reveal, any convictions, arrests, or pending criminal charges during the
application process, including but not limited to any interview. The
application process shall begin when the applicant inquires about the
employment being sought and shall end when an employer has extended a
conditional offer of employment to the applicant. If the applicant voluntarily
discloses any information regarding his or her criminal record at the
interview, the employer may discuss the criminal record disclosed by the
applicant.
   C.   Handling Of Criminal Records: Employers shall comply with any
obligations arising under federal or state law relating to authorization for
background checks, notifying applicants about adverse hiring decisions based on
an applicant's criminal record, and any other matters involving the use of
criminal record information.
   D.   Enforcement: Any complaint alleging a violation of this section shall
be filed within the time provided in
5-3-10. Upon certification by the commission of an affirmative finding of
probable cause that an employer has committed a violation of this section, the
commission shall refer the complaint and probable cause finding to the city
attorney for review, together with a recommendation as to the amount of a fine
to be assessed. Upon determination that the complaint meets the requisite
standard of proof, the city attorney shall issue a municipal infraction
citation against the employer. A first offense shall be subject to a fine of up
to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), and a repeat offense within a period
of three (3) years shall be subject to a fine of up to one thousand dollars
($1,000.00). Fines shall be payable to the complainant. For purposes of
enforcing this section, the provisions of sections
5-3-10.D,
5-3-10.E,
5-3-10.F,
5-3-11,
5-3-12 and
5-3-13 shall not apply.
   E.   Effect On Other Laws; No Private Rights: This section shall not be
interpreted or applied as imposing an obligation on the part of an employer to
provide accommodations or job modifications in order to facilitate the
employment of an applicant. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
create a private right of action to seek damages or other relief of any kind.
   F.   This section shall be effective July 1, 2020. (Ord. 5522, 11-4-2019;
amd. Ord. 5547, 5-9-2020)
ARTICLE A. FAIR HOUSING
SECTION:
5-3A-1: Definitions
5-3A-2: Prohibitions
5-3A-3: Discrimination In Residential Real Estate Related Transactions
5-3A-4: Discrimination In Provision Of Brokerage Services
5-3A-5: Interference, Coercion, Or Intimidation; Enforcement By Civil Action
5-3A-6: Exceptions
5-3A-7: Additional Administrative Proceedings
5-3A-8: Enforcement By The Commission; Housing, Additional Proceedings
5-3A-9: Civil Action For Enforcement When Election Is Made; Housing
5-3A-10: Enforcement By Private Persons; Housing
5-3A-11: Enforcement By The City Attorney; Housing
5-3A-12: Cooperation With State And Federal Agencies Administering Fair Housing
Laws
5-3A-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article:
AGGRIEVED PERSON: Includes any person who claims to have been injured by an
unfair or discriminatory housing practice or any person who believes that they
will be injured by an unfair or discriminatory housing practice that is about
to occur.
CONCILIATION: The attempted resolution of issues raised by a complaint, or by
the investigation of such complaint, through informal negotiations involving
the aggrieved person, respondent, and commission.
COVERED MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING: Any of the following:
   A.   A building consisting of four (4) or more dwelling units if the
building has one or more elevators.
   B.   The ground floor units of a building consisting of four (4) or more
units.
DWELLING: Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as, or
designed or intended for occupancy as, a "Dwelling" means any building,
structure, or residence by one or more families, or any vacant land which is
offered for sale or lease for the construction or location thereon of any such
building, structure or portion thereof.
FAMILIAL STATUS: One or more individuals under the age of eighteen (18)
domiciled with one of the following:
   A.   A parent or another person having legal custody of the individual or
individuals.
   B.   The designee of the parent or the other person having custody of the
individual or individuals, with the written permission of the parent or other
person.
   C.   A person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing legal custody
of the individual or individuals.
PERSON: One or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations,
labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint stock
companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in cases
under title 11 of the United States Code, receivers, and fiduciaries.
RESPONDENT: Any person or entity alleged in a complaint, or later identified in
the course of the investigation, as committing an unfair or discriminatory
housing practice. (Ord. 4464, 3-26-2001)
5-3A-2: PROHIBITIONS:
It shall be an unfair or discriminatory housing practice for any person, owner,
or person acting for an owner, of rights to housing or real property, with or
without compensation, including, but not limited to, persons licensed as real
estate brokers or salespersons, attorneys, auctioneers, agents or
representatives by power of attorney or appointment, or any person acting under
court order, deed of trust, or will:
   A.   To refuse to sell, rent, lease, assign, sublease, refuse to negotiate,
or to otherwise make unavailable, or deny any real property or dwelling or
part, portion or interest therein, to any person because of the race, color,
creed, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, national origin,
disability, or familial status of such person.
   B.   To discriminate against any person because of the person's race, color,
creed, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, national origin,
disability, or familial status, in the terms, conditions or privileges of the
sale, rental, lease, assignment or sublease of any real property or dwelling or
any part, portion or interest in the real property or dwelling, or in the
provision of services or facilities in connection with the real property or
dwelling.
   C.   To directly or indirectly advertise, or in any other manner indicate or
publicize that the purchase, rental, lease, assignment, or sublease of any real
property or dwelling or any part, portion or interest therein, by persons of
any particular race, color, creed, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity,
religion, national origin, disability, or familial status is unwelcome,
objectionable, not acceptable, or not solicited.
   D.   To discriminate against the lessee or purchaser of any real property or
dwelling or part, portion or interest of the real property or dwelling, or
against any prospective lessee or purchaser of the property or dwelling,
because of the race, color, creed, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender
identity, disability, age or national origin of persons who may from time to
time be present in or on the lessee's or owner's premises for lawful purposes
at the invitation of the lessee or owner as friends, guests, visitors,
relatives or in any similar capacity.
   E.   To induce or attempt to induce a person to sell or rent a dwelling by
representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into a neighborhood of
a person of a particular race, color, creed, sex, sexual orientation, gender
identity, religion, national origin, disability, or familial status.
   F.   To represent to any person of a particular race, color, creed, sex,
sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, national origin, disability, or
familial status that a dwelling is not available for inspection, sale, or
rental when the dwelling is available for inspection, sale, or rental. (Ord.
4891, 11-13-2007)
   G.   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny a dwelling, to a buyer or renter because of a disability of:
      1.   That buyer or renter;
      2.   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is sold, rented, or made available; or
      3.   A person associated with that buyer or renter.
   H.   To discriminate against another person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with the dwelling, because of a disability of:
      1.   That person;
      2.   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is sold, rented, or made available; or
      3.   A person associated with that person.
   I.   To refuse to permit, at the expense of the person with a disability,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by the
person if the modifications are necessary to afford the person full enjoyment
of the premises. In the case of a rental, a landlord may, where reasonable to
do so, condition permission for a modification on the renter's agreement to
restore the interior of the premises to the condition that existed before the
modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted.
   J.   To refuse to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when the accommodations are necessary to afford the
person with a disability equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling.
   K.   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-family
dwellings for first occupancy after March 13, 1991, to fail to design and
construct those dwellings in a manner that meets the following requirements:
      1.   The public use and common use portions of the dwellings are readily
accessible to and usable by persons with disabilities.
      2.   All doors designed to allow passage into and within all premises
within the dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by persons in
wheelchairs.
      3.   All premises within the dwellings contain the following features of
adaptive design:
         a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
         b.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
         c.   Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow later installation of
grab bars; and
         d.   Usable kitchens and bathrooms such that a person in a wheelchair
can maneuver about the space.
Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the American national standard
for buildings and facilities providing accessibility and usability for people
with disabilities (commonly cited as "ANSI A117.1") satisfies the requirements
in this subsection K3.
Nothing in this article requires that a dwelling be made available to a person
whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health or safety of other
persons or whose tenancy would result in substantial physical damage to the
property of others. (Ord. 4464, 3-26-2001)
5-3A-3: DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE RELATED TRANSACTIONS:
A person whose business includes engaging in residential real estate related
transactions shall not discriminate against a person in making a residential
real estate related transaction available, or in terms or conditions of a
residential real estate related transaction, because of race, color, creed,
sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, national origin,
disability, or familial status. (Ord. 4891, 11-13-2007)
For the purpose of this section, "residential real estate related transaction"
means any of the following:
   A.   To make or purchase loans or provide other financial assistance to
purchase, construct, improve, repair, or maintain a dwelling, or to secure
residential real estate; or
   B.   To sell, broker, or appraise residential real estate. (Ord. 4464, 3-26-
2001)
5-3A-4: DISCRIMINATION IN PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES:
A person shall not deny another person access to, or membership or
participation in, a multiple-listing service, real estate brokers' organization
or other service, organization, or facility relating to the business of selling
or renting dwellings, or discriminate against a person in terms or conditions
of access, membership, or participation in such organization because of race,
color, creed, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, national
origin, disability, or familial status. (Ord. 4891, 11-13-2007)
5-3A-5: INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION; ENFORCEMENT BY CIVIL ACTION:
It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, on account of the person having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of the person having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by this article. (Ord. 4464, 3-26-2001)
5-3A-6: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions in this article shall not apply to:
   A.   Religious Institutions: Any bona fide religious institution with
respect to any qualifications it may impose based on religion, sexual
orientation, or gender identity, when the qualifications are related to a bona
fide religious purpose unless the religious institution owns or operates
property for a commercial purpose or membership in the religion is restricted
on account of race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, familial
status, disability, or national origin. (Ord. 4891, 11-13-2007)
   B.   Two-Family Dwelling; Owner Residing: The rental or leasing of a
dwelling in a building which contains housing accommodations for not more than
two (2) families living independently of each other, if the owner resides in
one of the housing accommodations.
   C.   One-Family Dwelling; Owner Residing: The rental or leasing of less than
four (4) rooms within a single dwelling by the occupant or owner of the
dwelling, if the occupant or owner resides in the dwelling.
   D.   Up To Four-Family Dwelling; Owner Residing: The rental or leasing of a
housing accommodation in a building which contains housing accommodations for
not more than four (4) families living independently of each other, if the
owner resides in one of the housing accommodations for which the owner
qualifies for the homestead tax credit under Iowa Code section 425.1.
   E.   Sex Discrimination: Discrimination on the basis of sex involving the
rental, leasing, or subleasing of a dwelling within which residents of both
sexes would be forced to share a living area.
   F.   Familial Status Discrimination: Discrimination on the basis of familial
status involving dwellings provided under any state or federal program
specifically designed and operated to assist elderly persons, as defined in the
state or federal program that the commission determines to be consistent with
determinations made by the secretary of the U.S. department of housing and
urban development.
   G.   Housing For Older Persons: As used in this article, "housing for older
persons" means housing communities consisting of dwellings intended for either:
      1.   Eighty percent (80%) occupancy by at least one person fifty five
(55) years of age or older per unit; or
      2.   One hundred percent (100%) occupancy by persons sixty two (62) years
of age or older.
To qualify as housing for older persons, as defined in subsection G1 of this
section, at least eighty percent (80%) of the occupied units must be occupied
by at least one person fifty five (55) years of age or older and there must be
policies and procedures in effect which demonstrate an intent by the owner or
manager to provide housing for persons fifty five (55) years of age or older.
The exception for "housing for older persons" is limited to discrimination
based on familial status. (Ord. 4464, 3-26-2001)
   H.   Appraisal Exception: Nothing in this section prohibits a person engaged
in the business of furnishing appraisals of real estate from taking into
consideration factors other than race, color, creed, sex, sexual orientation,
gender identity, religion, national origin, disability, or familial status in
the appraisal of real estate. (Ord. 4891, 11-13-2007)
The exceptions found in subsections B, C, and D of this section do not apply to
subsection
5-3A-2C of this article relating to advertising. (Ord. 4464, 3-26-2001)
5-3A-7: ADDITIONAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Notice, Answer, Investigation, And Additional Respondents:
      1.   Not later than ten (10) days after the filing of a complaint
alleging an unfair or discriminatory housing practice, the commission shall
serve notice upon the complainant acknowledging receipt of the complaint and
advising complainant of the time limits and choice of forums provided under
this article.
      2.   Not later than ten (10) days after the filing of a complaint, or the
identification of an additional respondent under subsection A6 of this section,
the commission shall serve notice upon the respondent identifying the alleged
unfair or discriminatory housing practice and advising respondent of
respondent's procedural rights and obligations under this article. The
commission shall enclose a copy of the complaint along with the notice.
      3.   Each respondent may file an answer to the complaint not later than
ten (10) days after receipt of notice from the commission.
      4.   Complaints and answers shall be under oath or affirmation and may be
reasonably and fairly amended at any time.
      5.   The commission shall begin the investigation of the complaint within
thirty (30) days of filing. If the commission is unable to complete the
investigation within one hundred (100) days of filing, the commission shall so
notify complainant and respondent and state the reasons for the delay.
      6.   The commission may join a person not named in the complaint as an
additional or substitute respondent if, in the course of the investigation, the
commission determines that the person should be alleged to have committed an
unfair or discriminatory housing practice. In addition to the information
required in the notice in subsection A2 of this section, the commission shall
include an explanation for the determination that the person is properly joined
as a respondent.
   B.   Conciliation: Beginning with the filing of a complaint, the commission
shall, to the extent feasible, engage in conciliation with respect to the
complaint.
      1.   If the issues in the complaint are resolved through conciliation,
complainant and respondent may execute a conciliation agreement which documents
the terms of settlement and is subject to the approval of the commission.
      2.   A conciliation agreement may provide for binding arbitration or
other method of dispute resolution. Dispute resolution that results from a
conciliation agreement may authorize appropriate relief, including monetary
damages.
      3.   A conciliation agreement shall be made public unless the complainant
and respondent agree otherwise and the commission determines that disclosure is
not necessary to further the purposes of this article.
      4.   The proceedings or results of conciliation shall not be made public
or used as evidence in a subsequent proceeding under this chapter without the
written consent of the persons who are party to the conciliation.
      5.   When the commission has reasonable cause to believe that a
respondent has breached a conciliation agreement, the commission shall refer
the matter to the city attorney with a recommendation that a civil action be
filed for the enforcement of the agreement.
   C.   Investigative Report: At the completion of each investigation under
this section, the commission shall prepare a final investigative report
containing:
      1.   Witness names, and dates of contact;
      2.   Summary of contacts with the aggrieved person and respondent, as
well as dates of correspondence;
      3.   Summary of witness statements;
      4.   Summary description of all pertinent records; and
      5.   Answers to interrogatories.
A final investigative report under this subsection may be amended if additional
evidence is later discovered.
After the completion of the investigation, the commission shall make available
to the complainant, respondent, and each aggrieved person information derived
from the investigation, as well as the final investigation report relating to
that investigation.
   D.   Prompt Judicial Action: If the commission concludes, following the
filing of a complaint, that prompt judicial action is necessary to carry out
the purposes of this section, the commission may authorize a civil action for
appropriate temporary or preliminary relief pending final disposition of the
complaint. Upon receipt of the commission's authorization, the city attorney
shall promptly file such an action. A temporary restraining order or other
order granting preliminary or temporary relief under this article shall be
issued in accordance with Iowa rules of civil procedure. The filing of a civil
action under this section does not affect the initiation or continuation of
administrative proceedings under this article.
   E.   Probable Cause: If the commission determines that probable cause exists
to believe that an unfair or discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is
about to occur, the commission shall immediately issue a determination, unless
the commission determines that the legality of a zoning or land use law or
ordinance is involved as provided in subsection F of this section.
      1.   A probable cause determination must:
         a.   Consist of a short and plain statement of the facts upon which
the commission found probable cause to believe that an unfair or discriminatory
housing practice has occurred or is about to occur;
         b.   Be based on the final investigative report; and
         c.   Need not be limited to the facts or grounds alleged in the
complaint.
      2.   Not later than twenty (20) days after the commission determines
probable cause, the commission shall send a copy of the determination with
information regarding the election procedure under subsection
5-3A-8A of this article to the complainant, respondent, and each aggrieved
person.
   F.   Referral: If the commission determines that the matter involves the
legality of a state or local zoning or other land use ordinance, the commission
shall not issue a determination and shall immediately refer the matter to the
city attorney for appropriate action.
   G.   No Probable Cause: If the commission determines that no probable cause
exists to believe that an unfair or discriminatory housing practice has
occurred or is about to occur, the commission shall promptly dismiss the
complaint. The commission shall make public disclosure of each dismissal under
this article.
   H.   Civil Trial Action: The commission shall not issue a determination
under this section regarding an alleged unfair or discriminatory housing
practice after the beginning of the trial of a civil action commenced by the
aggrieved party under federal or state law seeking relief with respect to the
alleged discriminatory practice.
   I.   Subpoenas: The commission may issue subpoenas and order discovery in
aid of investigations and hearings under this article. Such subpoenas and
discovery may be ordered to the same extent and are subject to the same
limitations as subpoenas and discovery in a civil action in district court.
(Ord. 4464, 3-26-2001)
5-3A-8: ENFORCEMENT BY THE COMMISSION; HOUSING, ADDITIONAL PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Probable Cause; Action: When a probable cause determination has been
issued, the complainant, respondent, or aggrieved person may elect to have the
claims asserted in that complaint decided in a civil action under section
5-3A-9 of this article in lieu of a hearing under subsection E of this section.
The election must be made not later than twenty (20) days after the receipt by
the electing person of service under subsection
5-3A-7E2 of this article, or, in the case of the commission, not later than
twenty (20) days after such service. The person making such election shall give
notice of the election to the commission and all other parties.
   B.   Hearing: If an election is not made under subsection A of this section
the commission shall provide an opportunity for a hearing on the record with
respect to the complaint. The commission shall delegate the conduct of the
hearing to an administrative law judge appointed by the commission.
   C.   Hearing Procedure: At a hearing under this section, each party may
appear in person, be represented by counsel, present evidence, cross-examine
witnesses, and obtain the issuance of subpoenas under subsection
 5-3A-7I of this article. Any aggrieved person may intervene as a party in the
proceeding.
   D.   Complaint Resolution: Any resolution of a complaint before a final
order under this section shall require the consent of each aggrieved person.
   E.   Hearings, Findings, Conclusions, And Order:
      1.   The administrative law judge shall commence the hearing under this
section no later than one hundred twenty (120) days following the probable
cause determination, unless it is impracticable to do so. If the administrative
law judge is unable to commence the hearing within one hundred twenty (120)
days after the determination, the administrative law judge shall notify the
commission, the aggrieved person on whose behalf the complaint was filed, and
the respondent in writing of the reasons for the delay.
      2.   The administrative law judge shall make findings of fact and
conclusions of law within sixty (60) days following the completion of the
hearing under this section, unless it is impracticable to do so. If the
administrative law judge is unable to make findings of fact and conclusions of
law within such period, or any succeeding sixty (60) day period thereafter, the
administrative law judge shall notify the commission, the aggrieved person on
whose behalf the complaint was filed, and the respondent in writing of the
reasons for the delay.
      3.   If the administrative law judge finds that a respondent has engaged
or is about to engage in an unfair or discriminatory housing practice, the
administrative law judge shall promptly issue an order for such relief as may
be appropriate, which may include actual damages suffered by the aggrieved
person, and injunctive and other equitable relief. Such order may, to vindicate
the public interest, assess a civil penalty against the respondent in an amount
not to exceed those established by the federal fair housing act in section 42
USC 3612.
      4.   No such order shall affect any contract, sale, encumbrance, or lease
consummated before the issuance of such order and involving a bona fide
purchaser, encumbrancer, or tenant without actual notice of the complaint.
      5.   In the case of an order with respect to an unfair or discriminatory
housing practice that occurred in the course of a business subject to licensing
or regulation by a governmental agency, the commission shall, not later than
thirty (30) days after the date of the issuance of such order, send copies of
the findings of fact, conclusions of law, and the order to that governmental
agency and recommend to that agency appropriate disciplinary action, including,
where appropriate, the suspension or revocation of the license of the
respondent.
      6.   If the administrative law judge finds that the respondent has not
engaged or is not about to engage in an unfair or discriminatory housing
practice, the administrative law judge shall enter an order dismissing the
complaint. The commission shall make public disclosure of each dismissal.
      7.   An administrative law judge may not continue (adjourn or postpone)
administrative proceedings under this section regarding any alleged unfair or
discriminatory housing practice after the beginning of the trial of a civil
action commenced by the aggrieved party under a federal or state law seeking
relief with respect to that alleged discriminatory practice.
   F.   Commission Review Of Findings: The commission may review any finding,
conclusion, or order issued by the administrative law judge under this section.
Such review shall be completed not later than thirty (30) days after the
finding, conclusion, or order is issued, otherwise the finding, conclusion, or
order becomes final.
   G.   Final Order: The commission shall serve each complainant, respondent,
and aggrieved person upon whose behalf the complaint was filed a copy of the
findings of fact, conclusions of law, and order with respect to any final order
issued under this section. (Ord. 4464, 3-26-2001)
5-3A-9: CIVIL ACTION FOR ENFORCEMENT WHEN ELECTION IS MADE; HOUSING:
   A.   If an election is made under subsection
5-3A-8A of this article, the commission shall authorize, not later than thirty
(30) days after the election is made, the city attorney to commence and
maintain a civil action on behalf of the aggrieved person in district court
seeking relief under this article.
   B.   Any aggrieved person with respect to the issues to be determined in a
civil action under this section may intervene in that action.
   C.   In a civil action under this section, if the court finds that an unfair
or discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is about to occur, the court
may grant as relief any relief which a court could grant with respect to such
unfair or discriminatory housing practice in a civil action under subsection A
of this section. Any relief so granted that would accrue to an aggrieved person
in a civil action commenced by that aggrieved person under subsection A of this
section shall also accrue to that aggrieved person in a civil action under this
section. If monetary relief is sought for the benefit of an aggrieved person
who does not intervene in the civil action, the court shall not award such
relief if that aggrieved person has not complied with discovery orders entered
by the court.
In any administrative proceeding brought under this article, or any court
proceeding arising therefrom, or any civil action, the administrative law judge
or court, in its discretion, may allow the prevailing party, other than the
commission, reasonable attorney fees and costs. (Ord. 4464, 3-26-2001)
5-3A-10: ENFORCEMENT BY PRIVATE PERSONS; HOUSING:
   A.   An aggrieved person may commence a civil action in district court not
later than two (2) years after the occurrence of an alleged unfair or
discriminatory housing practice, or the breach of a conciliation agreement
entered into under this article, whichever occurs last, to obtain appropriate
relief with respect to such discriminatory practice or breach.
   B.   The computation of such two (2) year period shall not include any time
during which an administrative proceeding under this article was pending with
respect to that complaint. This section does not apply to actions arising from
a breach of a conciliation agreement.
   C.   An aggrieved person may commence a civil action under this section
whether or not a complaint has been filed under this article and without regard
to the status of any such complaint, but if the commission or the Iowa civil
rights commission has obtained a conciliation agreement with the consent of the
aggrieved person, no action may be filed under this section by such aggrieved
person with respect to the alleged unfair or discriminatory housing practice
which forms the basis for such complaint except for the purpose of enforcing
the terms of the conciliation agreement.
   D.   An aggrieved person may not commence a civil action under this section
with respect to an alleged unfair or discriminatory housing practice if an
administrative law judge has commenced a hearing on the record under this
article with respect to such complaint.
   E.   Upon application by a person alleging an unfair or discriminatory
housing practice or a person against whom such a practice is alleged, the court
may:
      1.   Appoint an attorney for such person; or
      2.   Authorize the commencement or continuation of a civil action under
this section without the payment of fees, costs, or security, if, in the
opinion of the court, such person is financially unable to bear the costs of
such action.
   F.   In a civil action under this section, if the court finds that an unfair
or discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is about to occur, the court
may award to the plaintiff actual and punitive damages, and subject to
subsection G of this section, may grant as relief, as the court deems
appropriate, any permanent or temporary injunction, temporary restraining, or
other order, including an order enjoining the defendant from engaging in such
practice or ordering such affirmative action as may be appropriate.
   G.   Relief granted under this section shall not affect any contract, sale,
encumbrance, or lease consummated before the granting of such relief and
involving a bona fide purchaser, encumbrance, or tenant, without actual notice
of the filing of the complaint or civil action under this article.
   H.   Upon timely application, the city attorney may intervene in such civil
action, if the city attorney certifies that the case is of general public
importance. Upon such intervention the city attorney may obtain such relief as
would be available to the city attorney under section
5-3A-11 of this article. (Ord. 4464, 3-26-2001)
5-3A-11: ENFORCEMENT BY THE CITY ATTORNEY; HOUSING:
   A.   On the request of the commission, the city attorney may file a civil
action in district court for appropriate relief if the commission has probable
cause to believe that any of the following applies:
      1.   A person is engaged in a pattern or practice of resistance to the
full enjoyment of any housing right granted by this article; or
      2.   A person has been denied any housing right granted by this article
and that denial raises an issue of general public importance.
   B.   A civil action under this section may be commenced no later than two
(2) years after the date of the occurrence of the alleged unfair or
discriminatory housing practice.
   C.   The city attorney may commence a civil action in district court for
appropriate relief with respect to a breach of a conciliation agreement
referred to the city attorney by the commission. Such civil action may be
commenced no later than ninety (90) days after the referral of the alleged
breach under subsection
 5-3A-7B5 of this article.
   D.   The city attorney, on behalf of the commission or other party at whose
request a subpoena is issued under this article, may enforce such subpoena in
appropriate proceedings in district court.
   E.   In a civil action under this section, the court may:
      1.   Award such preventive relief, including a permanent or temporary
injunction, restraining order, or other order against the person responsible
for the violation of this article as is necessary to assure the full enjoyment
of the rights granted by this article;
      2.   Award such other relief as the court deems appropriate, including
monetary damages to the person aggrieved; and
      3.   Assess a civil penalty, to vindicate the public interest, against
the respondent in an amount not exceeding fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00)
for a first violation and in an amount not exceeding one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000.00) for any subsequent violation.
   F.   In a civil action under this section, the court, in its discretion, may
award reasonable attorney fees and costs to the prevailing party.
   G.   Upon timely application, any person may intervene in a civil action
commenced by the city attorney under this section, which involves an alleged
unfair or discriminatory housing practice with respect to which such person is
an aggrieved person or a conciliation agreement to which such person is a
party. The court may grant such appropriate relief to any such intervening
party as is authorized to a plaintiff in a civil action under subsection A of
this section. (Ord. 4464, 3-26-2001)
5-3A-12: COOPERATION WITH STATE AND FEDERAL AGENCIES ADMINISTERING FAIR HOUSING
LAWS:
The commission shall cooperate with state and federal agencies charged with the
administration and enforcement of state and federal fair housing laws and, with
the consent of such agencies, utilize the services of such agencies and their
employees, and in furtherance of such cooperative efforts, may enter into
written agreements with such state and federal agencies. (Ord. 4464, 3-26-2001)
ARTICLE B. HOUSING PROTECTIONS FOR VICTIMS OF DOMESTIC VIOLENCE
SECTION:
5-3B-1: Definitions
5-3B-2: Prohibited Acts By Landlords
5-3B-3: Certification Of Victim Status
5-3B-4: Lease Bifurcation
5-3B-5: Rights And Responsibilities Of Tenants
5-3B-1: DEFINITIONS:
AFFILIATED INDIVIDUAL: With respect to an individual: a) a spouse, parent,
brother, sister, or child of that individual, or an individual to whom that
individual stands in loco parentis; or b) any individual, tenant, or lawful
occupant living in the household of that individual.
BIFURCATE: To divide the lease as a matter of law so that certain tenants can
be evicted or removed while the remaining tenants' or family members' lease and
occupancy rights are allowed to remain intact.
DATING VIOLENCE: Felony or misdemeanor crimes of violence committed: a) by a
person who is or has been in a social relationship of a romantic or intimate
nature with the victim, and b) where the existence of such a relationship shall
be determined based on a consideration of the following factors: 1) the length
of the relationship; 2) the type of relationship; and 3) the frequency of
interaction between the persons involved in the relationship.
DOMESTIC VIOLENCE: Includes felony or misdemeanor crimes of violence committed
by a current or former spouse of the victim, by a person with whom the victim
shares a child in common, by a person who is cohabitating with or has cohabited
with the victim as a spouse, by a person similarly situated to a spouse of the
victim under the domestic or family violence laws of the state of Iowa or the
city of Waterloo, or by any other person against an adult or youth victim who
is protected from that person's acts under the domestic or family violence laws
of the state of Iowa or the city of Waterloo.
IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER: With respect to a person: a) a spouse, parent,
brother, sister, or child of the person, or an individual to whom that person
stands in loco parentis (in place of a parent); or b) any other person living
in the household of that person and related to that person by blood, marriage
or adoption.
LANDLORD: Any person or entity who owns, manages, or makes decisions regarding
tenant matters for residential rental property within the city of Waterloo.
SEXUAL ASSAULT: Refers generally to any crime in which the offender subjects
the victim to sexual touching that is unwanted and offensive, including, but
not limited to, sexual groping, sexual assault or battery, and attempted rape.
STALKING: A. 1. To follow, pursue, or repeatedly commit acts with the intent to
kill, injure, harass, or intimidate; or
      2.   To place under surveillance with the intent to kill, injure, harass,
or intimidate another person; and
   B.   In the course of, or as a result of, such following, pursuit,
surveillance, or repeatedly committed acts, to place a person in reasonable
fear of the death of, or serious bodily injury to, or to cause substantial
emotional harm to: 1) that person; 2) an immediate family member of that
person; or 3) the spouse or intimate partner of that person. (Ord. 5199, 2-10-
2014)
5-3B-2: PROHIBITED ACTS BY LANDLORDS:
It shall be unlawful for any landlord to do any of the following, except as
otherwise provided in this code:
   A.   Decline a rental application of a potential tenant, or evict a current
tenant, occupant or affiliated individual, for any grounds related to said
person being a victim of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual violence or
stalking.
   B.   Construe any incident or incidents of actual or threatened domestic
violence, dating violence, sexual violence or stalking to be a serious or
repeated violation of the lease, or as otherwise "good cause" for terminating
the tenancy or occupancy rights of the victim of abuse, provided that the
victim has complied with the requirements for gaining the protections afforded
by Iowa Code section 562A.27 or has complied with section
5-3B-3 of this article.
   C.   Terminate the tenancy or occupancy rights of a victim due to criminal
activity directly related to the domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
violence or stalking of which such person is the victim, even if the criminal
activity is engaged in by a member of a tenant's household or any guest or
other person under the tenant's control, provided that the victim has complied
with the requirements for gaining the protections afforded by Iowa Code section
562A.27 or has complied with section
5-3B-3 of this article. (Ord. 5199, 2-10-2014)
5-3B-3: CERTIFICATION OF VICTIM STATUS:
   A.   In response to an incident of actual or threatened domestic violence,
dating violence, sexual violence or stalking that could potentially have an
impact on a person's occupancy rights, the landlord may request in writing that
the tenant or victim complete, sign, and within fourteen (14) business days
submit a written certification, signed under penalty of perjury, which answers
the following questions:
      1.   Date written request is received from owner or management agent;
      2.   Name of victim;
      3.   Name of person completing certification, if different;
      4.   Name(s) of other family members listed on the lease;
      5.   Name of the abuser and relationship of the abuser to the victim;
      6.   Date, time and location of incident; and
      7.   A description of the incident.
   B.   Alternatively, landlords may choose to forego the certification in
subsection A of this section and, at his or her discretion, provide assistance
to tenants, occupants, affiliated individuals or prospective tenants based
solely on the person's statement or other corroborating evidence, without any
official documentation or physical proof. (Ord. 5199, 2-10-2014)
5-3B-4: LEASE BIFURCATION:
If the domestic violence, dating violence, sexual violence or stalking is being
committed by a cotenant of the victim, a landlord may bifurcate the lease to
remove the offender while still allowing the victim to remain a tenant or
occupant in the residence. (Ord. 5199, 2-10-2014)
5-3B-5: RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF TENANTS:
   A.   For any tenant, occupant or prospective tenant to be eligible for the
protections described in this article, he or she must fully comply with any
requirements imposed by a landlord under section
5-3B-3 of this article.
   B.   A person's status as a victim under this article does not preclude said
tenant, occupant or affiliated individual from eviction from his or her
residence for any reason. Specifically, a victim can still face eviction for
reasons including, but not limited to:
      1.   Engaging in criminal activity apart from the domestic violence,
dating violence, sexual violence or stalking at issue in this article;
      2.   Posing an actual and imminent threat to other tenants or those
employed at or providing services to the property;
      3.   Violating any term or provision of the lease agreement, provided
that the reason for the violation of the term or provision is not directly
related to the person's victimization by domestic violence, dating violence,
sexual violence or stalking. (Ord. 5199, 2-10-2014)
ARTICLE C. UNFAIR PRACTICES-CONVERSION THERAPY
(Rep. by Ord 5712, 8-21-2023)
CHAPTER 4
CONVENIENCE STORE SECURITY
SECTION:
5-4-1: Purpose
5-4-2: Definitions
5-4-3: Surveillance Cameras
5-4-4: Visibility Of Premises
5-4-5: Inspection Of Devices And Records
5-4-6: Exemptions
5-4-7: Violation; Penalty
5-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide protection to the public at those
establishments commonly known as convenience stores located within the city.
(Ord. 3986, 11-15-1993)
5-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
CONVENIENCE STORE OR BUSINESS: Any business which sells consumer goods,
including, but not limited to, alcoholic beverages to be consumed off premises,
soft drinks, cigarettes and packaged food, or petroleum products, and which
routinely remains open for business twenty four (24) hours per day or any
portion of that time between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) P.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M., and which usually has on duty two (2) or less employees
during the hours between six o'clock (6:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
SURVEILLANCE CAMERA: A video tape camera or similar video recording device.
(Ord. 3986, 11-15-1993)
5-4-3: SURVEILLANCE CAMERAS:
   A.   Requirements:
      1.   Effective January 1, 1994, every convenience store/business shall be
equipped with a functioning surveillance camera. Said camera shall be in
operation during all hours between six o'clock (6:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:
00) A.M. while said business is open to the public.
      2.   Any convenience store or business that has purchased and installed a
surveillance camera of any kind during the six (6) months prior to October 1,
1993, shall not be required to upgrade the equipment in question to comply with
this chapter until January 1, 1996.
   B.   Specifications: At a minimum, all surveillance cameras shall meet the
following specifications:
      1.   The surveillance camera shall be capable of recording color images
and be positioned without obstruction so as to film all persons entering and
departing the convenience store/business and all persons approaching within
five feet (5') of each cash register.
      2.   All surveillance cameras shall be installed by a competent
technician who has been trained to properly install said surveillance cameras.
      3.   It shall be the sole responsibility of the owner of the convenience
store or business to monitor the surveillance camera for its effectiveness and
proper functioning. Said proper functioning shall include, but not be limited
to, the pictures depicted from said surveillance camera providing sufficient
clarity to enable reasonable identification of the person or persons filmed. A
record of all inspections and monitoring of the surveillance cameras shall be
kept and available at all times on the premises and upon demand by the chief of
police or his designee.
      4.   Said film used in the surveillance camera shall be color film of
good quality and which is not reused more than ten (10) times or which shall be
replaced every thirty (30) days, whichever need occurs first. The purpose of
said requirement is to ascertain that the color film produces sufficient
clarity to enable reasonable identification of the person or persons entering
and departing the convenience store/business. Said color film shall depict the
time of the photographing. (Ord. 3986, 11-15-1993)
5-4-4: VISIBILITY OF PREMISES:
Every convenience store/business shall keep and maintain a clear line of vision
from the outside of the premises into the interior of said premises. In
furtherance of this requirement, windows and door glasses shall not be
obstructed with signs or otherwise to the point that said visibility is
substantially impaired. (Ord. 3986, 11-15-1993)
5-4-5: INSPECTION OF DEVICES AND RECORDS:
The surveillance camera or cameras shall be subject to inspection by the chief
of police or his designee. Upon request, the convenience store/business owner
or employee on duty must immediately furnish to the chief of police or his
designee an inspection report, by a qualified technician, in a form specified
by the chief of police, certifying that the devices have been inspected and are
in working order. (Ord. 3986, 11-15-1993)
5-4-6: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   A convenience store/business which is required to install a
surveillance camera by this chapter may apply to the police chief for exemption
from said chapter. The chief of police may exempt a convenience store/business
if he finds that the convenience store/business has undertaken alternate
security measures which are substantially equal to or more effective in
preventing criminal activity and in assisting in the apprehension of the
perpetrators of a crime at said convenience store/business or for the
protection of employees, all to the satisfaction of said chief of police. The
chief of police may authorize temporary extensions of the installation deadline
provided herein when a business demonstrates to his satisfaction that it is
temporarily unable to comply for good cause shown.
   B.   Any party aggrieved by the decision of the police chief or his designee
in regard to matters covered by subsection A of this section, may appeal said
decision to the city council. Said appeal must be taken within fourteen (14)
days of the decision in question. (Ord. 3986, 11-15-1993)
5-4-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a municipal infraction and upon conviction thereof shall be punished in
accordance with subsection
1-3-2C of this code, in addition to any other appropriate alternative relief
ordering the defendant to abate, cease or correct the violation, which shall
include, but not be limited to, injunctive relief. (Ord. 3986, 11-15-1993; amd.
Ord. 4441, 10-16-2000)
CHAPTER 5
CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTIES
SECTION:
5-5-1: Definitions
5-5-2: Purpose
5-5-3: Chronic Nuisance Properties Prohibited
5-5-4: Enforcement
5-5-5: Notice
5-5-6: Civil Violations And Penalties
5-5-7: Sample Notice
5-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise expressly stated or unless the context clearly indicates a
different intention, the following terms shall, for the purpose of this
chapter, have the following meanings:
ABATE OR ABATEMENT: A. As applied to owner/occupants: The removal or correction
of the condition or circumstances causing the property to be deemed a chronic
nuisance property and/or the complete cessation of the action causing same.
   B.   As applied to a nonoccupant owner: The initiation of all such actions
or steps as may be reasonable and legal under the circumstances (and which
would ordinarily lead to an abatement of the problem) together with a good
faith continuation of those efforts.
ENFORCEMENT ACTION: An arrest, a determination that there is probable cause to
make an arrest, the issuance of a citation, or issuance of a written or verbal
warning associated with a nuisance activity as defined herein.
NUISANCE ACTIVITIES: Any illegal activity titled as the following in the
Waterloo Police Department shield database under "call reporting":
Assault (any variation of an assault).
Disorder (disorderly conduct).
Drug (drug violation).
Fight.
Fireworks.
Gambling.
Liquor (liquor violations).
Loiter (loitering).
Loud (loud/noise/vehicle/machinery).
Loudpart (loud party).
Medshoot (shooting in progress).
Prostitu (prostitution).
Sex (sex offenses).
Susp (suspicious).
Weapon (both weapons violations and shots fired).
Illegal activity is that which is defined by Iowa Code 701.2 as a public
offense;
A public offense is that which is prohibited by statute and is punishable by
fine or imprisonment.
OWNER: Any person, agent, firm, corporation, association or partnership,
including a mortgagee in possession in whom is vested all or part of the legal
title to property or all or part of the beneficial ownership and the right to
present use and enjoyment of the premises, or an occupant of that structure.
PERSON: Any natural person, association, partnership, corporation or other
legal entity capable of owning or using property.
POLICE SERVICE FEE: The Police Department service fee is fifty dollars ($50.00)
per hour per officer. Any fraction of an hour is tabulated as a complete hour.
Example: If one officer responds and is at the property for fifteen (15)
minutes, the fee is fifty dollars ($50.00). If two (2) officers respond and are
at the property for one minute, the fee is one hundred dollars ($100.00).
PROPERTY: Any single parcel in the City of Waterloo assigned a Black Hawk
County parcel identification number. For property consisting of more than one
unit, the term "property" shall refer to a particular unit. (Ord. 5238, 9-15-
2014; amd. Ord. 5409, 7-24-2017)
5-5-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish a systematic procedure for
effectively abating properties that negatively impact the quality of life in
neighborhoods. These types of properties tend to place an undue and
inappropriate burden on the other taxpayers in the City of Waterloo by the
frequent and chronic use of law enforcement services at the properties. (Ord.
5238, 9-15-2014)
5-5-3: CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTIES PROHIBITED:
No person shall use or allow any property to be used as a chronic nuisance
property. (Ord. 5238, 9-15-2014)
5-5-4: ENFORCEMENT:
Any property that has generated three (3) or more calls for police services in
any period less than twelve (12) months for nuisance activities that result in
an enforcement action is a chronic nuisance property and has received more than
the level of general and adequate police service and has placed an undue and
inappropriate burden on the taxpayers of the City of Waterloo. As such, the
Waterloo Police Department may charge the owners of such property the costs
associated with providing police services, in the form of a police service fee,
at properties at which nuisance activities chronically occur. Any nuisance
activities reported by the owner of the property, a person designated by the
owner of the property, or that are deemed as domestic abuse, shall not be
counted. (Ord. 5238, 9-15-2014)
5-5-5: NOTICE:
When a property has been identified as a chronic nuisance property (3 or more
calls of nuisance activity that result in an enforcement action in any period
less than 12 months), the Chief of Police shall provide the owner of record a
notice, in writing, that the property has been declared a chronic nuisance
property.
A copy of the notice shall be served on the owner at least twenty (20) days
prior to the commencement of any judicial action by the City. Service shall be
made either personally or by mailing a copy of the notice by first class mail,
postage prepaid, to each person at the address as it appears in the records of
the County auditor. Additionally, a copy of the notice shall be served on the
occupant of the structure if that person is different than the owner and shall
occur not less than ten (10) days prior to the commencement of any judicial
proceeding and may be made either personally or by mailing a copy of the notice
by first class mail, postage prepaid, to that person at the structure. In the
event that notice is impossible to be served as set out above, a copy of the
notice may be posted at the property if ten (10) days have elapsed from the
service or mailing of the notice to the owner.
In addition, a copy of the notice shall also be provided to the City's Code
Enforcement Division.
The failure of any person or owner to receive actual notice of the
determination of the Chief of Police shall not preclude future proceedings
under this chapter.
The owner of the property, upon receipt or posting of the notice, has ten (10)
days to provide the Chief of Police with a written abatement plan. If the owner
fails to do so, or chronic nuisance activity continues, the owner shall be
cited, as per section
 5-5-6 of this chapter, and the owner shall be charged the fifty dollar
($50.00) per hour per officer police service fee for each subsequent nuisance
activity police call to the property. If the owner fails to pay the service
fee, it shall be assessed against the property in the same manner as a Property
Tax as is allowed by Iowa Code section 364.22.
In the case of a landlord/tenant relationship, the owner (landlord) may be
deemed to have abated the activity upon demonstration that the owner has taken
legal action as allowed by Iowa Code chapter 562A to terminate the rental
agreement, continues to follow abatement procedures, and provides the Chief of
Police with copies of all notices served in accordance with Iowa Code chapter
562A. (Ord. 5238, 9-15-2014)
5-5-6: CIVIL VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any person who violates or resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of a Municipal infraction punishable by a civil
penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the initial offense and two
hundred dollars ($200.00) for each repeat offense. Any person who violates a
provision of this chapter after having previously been found guilty of
violating the same provision of this chapter at the same location shall be
guilty of a repeat offense.
Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this section does not preclude the
City from seeking alternative relief, including, but not limited to, any order
for abatement or injunctive relief from the court in the same action or as a
separate action. (Ord. 5238, 9-15-2014)
5-5-7: SAMPLE NOTICE:
 February 6, 2013
 
Mr. William Larson
715 Mulberry Street
Waterloo, IA 50703
 
Dear Mr. Larson,
 
Any property that has generated three or more calls for police services in any
period less than 12 months for nuisance activities that result in an
enforcement action is considered a chronically nuisance property. Such a
property has received more than the level of general and adequate police
service and has placed an undue and inappropriate burden on the taxpayers of
the CITY OF WATERLOO.
 
In the past 3-month period, the Waterloo Police Department has responded to 15
nuisance activity calls at your property located at 134 Anytown Drive. The
activities involved include fighting, disorderly conduct, and loud music. A
detailed list is enclosed with this letter, as well as a copy of the City of
Waterloo's Chronic Nuisance Property ordinance.
 
You have 10 days to provide me with a written plan to abate these nuisance
activities. If you fail to do so, or chronic nuisance activity continues, you
will be issued a municipal infraction in the amount of $100.00. In addition,
for each subsequent police response to 134 Anytown Drive for nuisance activity,
you will be billed $50.00 per hour per officer who responds. Any fraction of an
hour is tabulated as a full hour. If you fail to pay this service fee, it will
be assessed against the property in the same manner as a property tax as is
allowed by Iowa Code Chapter 364.22.
 
In the case of a landlord/tenant relationship, the owner (landlord) may be
deemed to have abated the activity upon demonstration that the owner has taken
legal action as allowed by Iowa Code Chapter 562A to terminate the rental
agreement, continues to follow abatement procedures, and provides me with
copies of all notices served in accordance with Iowa Code Chapter 562A.
 
Sincerely,
 
 
Daniel J. Trelka
Director of Safety Services/Chief of Police
 
(Ord. 5238, 9-15-2014)
CHAPTER 6
CHRONIC NUISANCE VEHICLES
SECTION:
5-6-1: Definitions
5-6-2: Purpose
5-6-3: Chronic Nuisance Vehicles Prohibited
5-6-4: Enforcement
5-6-5: Civil Violations And Penalties
5-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC CITATION: Shall mean a notice of fine generated in connection
with section
6-1-4 of this Code.
CHRONIC NUISANCE VEHICLE: Any vehicle that has generated three (3) or more
automated traffic citations and/or officer traffic citations in any period less
than twelve (12) months for traffic violations.
OFFICER TRAFFIC CITATION: Shall mean a notice of fine generated in connection
with section
6-1-5 of this Code.
VEHICLE OWNER: Shall mean the person or entity identified by the Iowa
Department of Transportation, or registered with any other state vehicle
registration office, as the registered owner of a vehicle. (Ord. 5488, 3-11-
2019)
5-6-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish a systematic procedure for
effectively abating the operation of vehicles that negatively impact the safety
upon the roadways in the City of Waterloo. The manner in which these vehicles
are being driven tends to place an undue and inappropriate burden upon the
taxpayers in the City of Waterloo by the frequent and chronic use of law
enforcement and fire rescue services due to the response to accidents caused by
this driving behavior. (Ord. 5488, 3-11-2019)
5-6-3: CHRONIC NUISANCE VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
No vehicle owner shall use or allow any vehicle to be used as a chronic
nuisance vehicle. (Ord. 5488, 3-11-2019)
5-6-4: ENFORCEMENT:
Any vehicle that has generated three (3) or more automated traffic citations
and/or officer traffic citations in any period less than twelve (12) months for
traffic violations is deemed a chronic nuisance vehicle and has placed an undue
and inappropriate burden on the taxpayers of the City of Waterloo. The vehicle
owner shall be liable for a fine as imposed by this chapter. (Ord. 5488, 3-11-
2019)
5-6-5: CIVIL VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who violates or resists the enforcement of any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a Municipal infraction punishable
by a civil penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the initial offense and
two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each repeat offense.
   B.   If any one of the three (3) or more violations for which a person
received a citation is for speeds in excess of twenty (20) miles-per-hour over
the posted speed limit, the person shall be guilty of a Municipal infraction
punishable by a civil penalty of three hundred dollars ($300.00). (Ord. 5488,
3-11-2019)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
Traffic Code   1
Bicycles Or Motor Scooters   2
Snowmobiles   3
Off Road Utility Vehicles (ORVs)   4
Civil Seizure And Impoundment Of
Motor Vehicles   5
Impoundment Of Motor Vehicles By
Departments Other Than Police   6
Parking In Residential Areas   7
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE
SECTION:
6-1-1: Traffic Code Adopted
6-1-2: Parking Meters
6-1-3: Municipal Parking Lots
6-1-4: Automated Traffic Enforcement
6-1-5: Officer Traffic Citation
6-1-1: TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED:
Pursuant to Iowa Code section 380.10, the City hereby adopts the 1991 Traffic
Code for the City of Waterloo, Iowa. Such code is composed of all City Traffic
Ordinances presently in effect, the adopting ordinance and the Deputy City
Clerk's certification of its adoption and passage.
The Traffic Code shall be compiled in looseleaf format, and all Traffic
Ordinances adopted after the effective date of Ordinance 3842 shall be in the
form of an amendment or an addition to the Traffic Code.
The City Clerk shall be responsible for the compilation, organization and
maintenance of the Traffic Code. The official copy of such code shall be kept
on file in the City Clerk's Office, and additional copies shall be available in
that office for public inspection and purchase. (Ord. 3523, 2-1-1988; amd. Ord.
3842, 1-27-1992)
6-1-2: PARKING METERS:
The provisions of Ordinance 1720, adopted April 14, 1947, as amended, which
ordinance is set out in the 1941 compilation of ordinances of the City of
Waterloo at page P-4, and which ordinance governs the installation and use of
parking meters on the streets of the City, is hereby expressly saved from
repeal, and continued in full force and effect, as if set out at length in this
Code. (1970 Code § 25-2)
6-1-3: MUNICIPAL PARKING LOTS:
The provisions of Ordinance 1871, adopted May 22, 1951, as amended, which
ordinance is set out in the 1941 compilation of ordinances of the City of
Waterloo at page P-29, and which ordinance governs the establishment and
operation of Municipal parking lots is hereby expressly saved from repeal, and
continued in full force and effect, as if set out at length in this Code. (1970
Code § 25-2)
6-1-4: AUTOMATED TRAFFIC ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   General: The City of Waterloo, in accordance with its police powers,
may deploy, erect or cause to have erected an automated traffic enforcement
system for making video images of vehicles that fail to obey red light traffic
signals at intersections designated by the Chief of Police, or his designee, or
fail to obey speed regulations at said intersections or other locations in the
City. The systems may be managed by the private contractor that owns and
operates the requisite equipment with supervisory control vested in the City's
Police Department. Video images shall be provided to the Police Department by
the contractor for review. The Police Department will determine which vehicle
owners are in violation of the City's Traffic Control Ordinances and are to
receive a Notice of Violation for the offense. (Ord. 5487, 3-4-2019)
   B.   Definitions:
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC CITATION: Shall mean a notice of fine generated in connection
with the automated traffic enforcement system.
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC ENFORCEMENT CONTRACTOR: Shall mean the company or entity, if
any, with which the City of Waterloo contracts to provide equipment and/or
services in connection with the automated traffic enforcement system.
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM: Shall mean an electronic system
consisting of a photographic, video, or electronic camera and a vehicle sensor
installed to work in conjunction with an official traffic controller or Police
Department employee to automatically produce photographs, video or digital
images of each vehicle violating a standard traffic control device or speed
restriction.
VEHICLE OWNER: Shall mean the person or entity identified by the Iowa
Department of Transportation, or registered with any other state vehicle
registration office, as the registered owner of a vehicle.
   C.   Vehicle Owner's Civil Liability For Certain Traffic Offenses:
      1.   The vehicle owner shall be liable for a fine as imposed below if
such a vehicle crosses a marked stop line or the intersection plane at a system
location when the traffic signal for that vehicle's direction is emitting a
steady red light or arrow.
      2.   The vehicle owner shall be liable for a fine as imposed below if
such vehicle travels at a speed above the posted limit.
      3.   The violation may be exempted from liability as outlined in
subsection F of this section, and other defenses may be considered in
connection with the appeal process.
      4.   In no event will an automated traffic citation be sent or reported
to the Iowa Department of Transportation or similar department of any other
state for the purpose of being added to the vehicle owner's driving record.
   D.   Notice Of Violation; Fine:
      1.   Notice of the violation will be mailed to the vehicle owner for each
violation recorded by an automated traffic enforcement system or traffic
control signal monitoring device. The automated traffic enforcement contractor
shall mail the notice within thirty (30) days after receiving information about
the vehicle owner. The notice shall include the name and address of the vehicle
owner; the vehicle make, if available and readily discernable, and registration
number; the violation charged; the time; the date; and the location of the
alleged violation; the applicable fine and monetary penalty which shall be
assessed for late payment; information as to the availability of an
administrative hearing in which the notice may be contested on its merits; and
that the basis of the notice is a photographic record obtained by an automated
traffic enforcement system.
      2.   Any violation of subsection C1 or C2 of this section shall be
subject to a civil fine as established by resolution. All civil fines shall be
payable to the City of Waterloo.
   E.   Contesting An Automated Traffic Citation: Within thirty (30) days from
the date appearing at the top of a notice of automated traffic citation sent to
the vehicle owner, the vehicle owner may either pay the fee associated with the
citation or challenge the citation by submitting a written challenge to the
citation or requesting that a municipal infraction be filed pursuant to Iowa
Code Section 364.22. Any such written challenge or request shall be on a form
specified by and available from the city as indicated on the notice, and be
sent to the city according to the instructions on that form. Upon receipt of a
written challenge, a Waterloo police officer shall determine whether the
citation should be rescinded. Within thirty (30) days after the city receives
such a challenge, the city shall notify the vehicle owner whether the challenge
to the automated traffic citation is successful, in which case, the citation
shall be rescinded. Otherwise, the citation shall stand. Thereafter, the city
may seek voluntary payment and/or file the citation as a municipal infraction
against the vehicle owner, as set forth in subsection G.
   F.   Exceptions To Owner Liability: There shall be no liability pursuant to
this section if:
      1.   The operator of the vehicle in question was issued a Municipal
infraction for the violation in question pursuant to section
1-3-2(B) of this chapter; or
      2.   The violation occurred at any time after the vehicle in question or
its state registration plates were reported to a law enforcement agency as
having been stolen, provided, however, the vehicle or its plates had not been
recovered by the vehicle owner at the time of the alleged violation; or
      3.   The vehicle in question was an authorized emergency vehicle; or
      4.   The officer inspecting the recorded image determines that the
vehicle in question was lawfully participating in a funeral procession; or
      5.   The officer inspecting the recorded image determines that the
vehicle in question entered the intersection in order to yield the right-of-way
to an emergency vehicle.
   G.   Failure To Timely Pay: If the recipient of an automated traffic
citation does not either pay the fine by the due date stated in the citation or
appeal the citation as provided herein, a Municipal infraction may be filed by
the Waterloo Police Department and a fine may be sought in accordance with
subsection D of this section. One municipal infraction citation may be issued
for multiple traffic violations for the same vehicle as different counts. If
judgment is entered in favor of the city, mandated court costs will be added to
the amount of the fine imposed by this section. The city may, subject to
applicable law, pursue enforcement of the judgment together with interest as
permitted by law. Collection of that judgment may include referral to the State
of Iowa Income Offset Program. Notwithstanding the city's right to file a
municipal infraction, the city may first seek voluntary payment of the fine by
sending a written request for payment to the vehicle owner and/or referring the
matter to a private service agent to conduct collection in accordance with all
applicable law. (Ord. 5411, 8-7-2017; amd. Ord. 5607, 7-6-2021; Ord. 5694, 4-
17-2023)
6-1-5: OFFICER TRAFFIC CITATION:
   A.   General: City police officers may issue Officer Traffic Citations to
violators for citable violations of the City Traffic Code referred to in
section
6-1-1 of this chapter, as set forth in subsection D of this section, in lieu of
an Iowa Uniform Citation and Complaint, provided that none of the disqualifying
criteria set forth in subsection E of this section are met. The process used to
issue and maintain records for Officer Traffic Citations may be managed by the
private contractor that owns and operates the requisite equipment, with
supervisory control vested in the City's Police Department.
   B.   Definitions:
OFFICER TRAFFIC CITATION: Shall mean a notice of fine generated in connection
with this section.
OFFICER TRAFFIC ENFORCEMENT CONTRACTOR: Shall mean the company or entity, if
any, with which the City of Waterloo contracts to provide equipment and/or
services in connection with the officer traffic enforcement process.
   C.   Notice Of Violation; Fine:
      1.   The Officer Traffic Citation will be served upon the violator upon
contact by the officer observing the violation. The citation shall include the
name and address of the violator; the vehicle make, if available and readily
discernable, and registration number; the violation charged; the time; the
date; and the location of the alleged violation; the applicable fine and
monetary penalty which shall be assessed for late payment; information as to
the availability of an administrative hearing in which the notice may be
contested on its merits.
      2.   Any violation of this section shall be subject to a civil fine as
established by resolution. All civil fines shall be payable to the City of
Waterloo.
   D.   Citable Violations:
      1.   Any violation under City Traffic Code section 3842.
   E.   Disqualifying Criteria: An Officer Traffic Citation shall not be issued
under any of the following circumstances:
      1.   The violation arises in connection with a traffic accident in which
a person has been injured.
      2.   The violator has no valid driver license.
      3.   The violator is operating while under the influence of alcohol or a
controlled substance as defined by State law.
      4.   The violator has been convicted of, or pled guilty, no contest or
the equivalent to, a traffic violation within the two (2) years preceding the
date of the violation being considered, as indicated by Iowa DOT or other State
records.
      5.   The violator is unable to provide proof of insurance.
   F.   Contesting An Officer Traffic Citation: A violator who has been issued
an Officer Traffic Citation may contest the citation as follows:
      1.   By submitting in a form specified by the City a request for an
administrative hearing to be held at the Waterloo Police Department before an
Administrative Appeals Board (the "Board") consisting of one or more impartial
fact finders. Such a request must be filed within thirty (30) days from the
date on which the citation was received. After a hearing, the Board may either
uphold or dismiss the citation, and shall mail its written decision within ten
(10) days after the hearing, to the address provided on the request for
hearing. If the citation is upheld, then the Board shall include in its written
decision a date by which the fine must be paid, and on or before that date, the
violator shall either pay the fine or submit a request pursuant to subsection
F2 of this section.
      2.   By submitting in a form specified by the City a request that in lieu
of the Officer Traffic Citation, a Municipal infraction citation be issued and
filed with the Clerk of Courts of the Iowa District Court in Black Hawk County.
Such a request must be filed within thirty (30) days from the date on which the
citation was issued. Such a request will result in a court order requiring the
violator to file an answer and appearance with the Clerk of Court, as well as
setting the matter for trial before a Judge or Magistrate. If the court finds
the violator guilty of the Municipal infraction, mandated court costs will be
added to the amount of the fine imposed by this section.
   G.   Failure To Timely Pay Or Appeal: If the recipient of an Officer Traffic
Citation does not either pay the fine by the due date stated in the citation or
appeal the citation as provided herein, a Municipal infraction may be filed by
the Waterloo Police Department and a fine may be sought in accordance with
section
6-1-1 of this chapter rather than subsection C of this section. If the court
finds the vehicle owner guilty of the violation, mandated court costs will be
added to the amount of the fine imposed by this section. (Ord. 5458, 6-11-2018)
CHAPTER 2
BICYCLES OR MOTOR SCOOTERS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Definitions
6-2-2: Applicability Of Motor Vehicle And Traffic Laws
6-2-3: Rules For Riding
6-2-4: Alteration Of Serial Frame Number
6-2-5: Bicycle And Electric Scooter Equipment
6-2-6: Obedience To Traffic Signals And Traffic Control Devices
6-2-7: Place Of Riding
6-2-8: Parking
6-2-9: Signaling Turns
6-2-10: Passing
6-2-11: Yield To Persons In Crosswalks
6-2-12: Motorists
6-2-13: Violations
6-2-14: Severability
6-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
             A.   PEDAL-ONLY BICYCLE: An upright or recumbent device having up to four (4) wheels
             and having at least one saddle or seat for the use of an operator, which is
             propelled by human power.
                1.   An upright bicycle is a bicycle placing the operator of the bicycle in a
             position above the pedals.
                2.   A recumbent bicycle is a bicycle that places the operator of the bicycle in
             a reclining position and behind the pedals. A recumbent bicycle requires a rear-
             mounted red or orange or yellow flag of minimum sixty inches (60") in height as
             measured from the ground.
             B.   ELECTRIC-ASSIST BICYCLE: An upright or recumbent device having up to four (4)
             wheels which is fully operable by human power and/or an electric motor of less than
             seven hundred fifty watts (750 W) (1 horsepower) with the following characteristics:
             capable of producing a maximum speed, when operated on a paved level surface and
             while ridden by an operator whose weight is one hundred seventy (170) pounds of: a)
             twenty (20) miles per hour or less when powered solely by such a motor, or b) twenty
             eight (28) miles per hour when combined with human power. Operators of electric-
BICYCLE:     assist bicycles are required to be at least fifteen (15) years of age.
             C.   There are three (3) classes of electric-assist bicycles as defined below:
                1.   Class 1 (pedal assist) is a low-speed bicycle equipped with an electric
             motor that provides assistance only when the operator is pedaling and ceases to
             provide assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed of twenty (20) miles per hour.
             Class 1 bicycles are not allowed on sidewalks.
                2.   Class 2 (throttled on demand) is a low-speed bicycle equipped with an
             electric motor that provides assistance when the operator is pedaling or when the
             operator activates and controls the motor manually, and the motor ceases to provide
             assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed of twenty (20) miles per hour. Class 2
             bicycles are not allowed on sidewalks.
                3.   Class 3 is a bicycle equipped with a speedometer and an electric motor that
             provides assistance only when the operator is pedaling and that ceases to provide
             assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed of twenty-eight (28) miles per hour.
             Class 3 bicycles are not allowed on multi-use recreational trails, or sidewalks.
             D.   Electric-assist bicycles shall not be customized to increase speed
             capabilities.
             A portion of street or highway signed and marked for exclusive use by bicycles or
BICYCLE      electric scooters. Other modes of travel shall not travel on bicycle lanes except
LANE:        for making legal maneuvers such as turning movements or as otherwise allowed by law
             or traffic control devices.
             A device weighing less than one hundred fifty (150) pounds which has (a) has
ELECTRIC     handlebars and an electric motor (b) is solely powered by the electric motor (c) has
SCOOTER:     a maximum speed of not more than twenty (20) miles per hour and on paved level
             surface when powered safely by the electric motor.
             A way or place for the use and travel of pedestrians and bicycles or other
MULTI-USE    authorized conveyances, the use of which is controlled by the State, County or City
RECREATIONAL and the identity of which is designated by the multi-use recreational trail map as
TRAIL:       updated periodically and approved by resolution of the City Council. No multi-use
             recreational trail shall be considered a street or highway.
PARKING
PROTECTED    Parking protected bicycle lane is installed next to the edge of the street and is
BICYCLE      separated from other roadway traffic by on-street parking.
LANE:
ROADWAY:     Any street, sidewalk, highway, park road, bicycle lane or multi-use recreational
             trail upon which a bicycle or electric scooter does or may operate.
             Sidewalk means that portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral lines
SIDEWALK:    of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of pedestrians.
             (Ord. 5495, 6-10-2019; amd. Ord. 5600, 6-1-2021)
 
6-2-2: APPLICABILITY OF MOTOR VEHICLE AND TRAFFIC LAWS:
Every person operating a bicycle or electric scooter upon any roadway shall be
subject to this chapter, other city traffic ordinances, and state statutes
applicable to the drivers of motor vehicles, except as to special regulations
in this chapter, except as to those provisions of ordinances and statutes which
by their nature can have no application to bicycle or electric scooter
operation, and except those provisions giving special treatment regarding
police bicycles. (Ord. 5495, 6-10-2019; amd. Ord. 5600, 6-1-2021)
6-2-3: RULES FOR RIDING:
   A.   Attaching To Another Vehicle: No operator or passenger of a bicycle or
electric scooter shall cling to or attach himself or herself, or his or her
bicycle or electric scooter, to any moving vehicle.
   B.   Additional Passengers:
      1.   The operator of a bicycle may carry or tow objects or another person
on a device or accessory on multi-use recreational trails if the device or
accessory was designed to meet the American Society for Testing and Materials
(ASTM) standards for such purposes.
      2.   The operator of a bicycle may carry or tow objects or another person
on a device or accessory on streets and highways, except where prohibited by
other laws, if the device or accessory was designed and meets ASTM standards
for such purposes and has a height of at least forty two inches (42") or, if
the height is less than forty two inches (42"), is equipped with a rear-mount
red or orange or yellow flag at a minimum height of sixty inches (60") as
measured from the ground. A rear mounted red reflector or red light is
required.
   C.   Stopping: Every bicycle or electric scooter used upon a City roadway
shall be able to safely come to a complete stop.
   D.   Maintaining Control Of Bicycle Or Electric Scooter: The operator of a
bicycle or electric scooter upon a roadway shall keep the bicycle under control
at all times. (Ord. 5495, 6-10-2019; amd. Ord. 5600, 6-1-2021)
6-2-4: ALTERATION OF SERIAL FRAME NUMBER:
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully remove, destroy, mutilate, or
alter the manufacturer's serial frame number of any bicycle or electric
scooter. (Ord. 5495, 6-10-2019; amd. Ord. 5600, 6-1-2021)
6-2-5: BICYCLE AND ELECTRIC SCOOTER EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Lights And Reflectors: Requirements for lights and reflectors are as
follows:
      1.   Every bicycle or electric scooter ridden at any time from sunset to
sunrise and at such other times when conditions such as fog, snow, sleet, or
rain provide insufficient lighting to render persons and vehicles clearly
discernable on a roadway at a distance of three hundred feet (300') ahead shall
be equipped with a lamp on the front exhibiting a white light visible from a
distance of at least three hundred feet (300') to the front and also a red
light visible from a distance of three hundred feet (300') to the rear.
      2.   Body attachment equipment such as lights attached to the head, back,
arm, or leg are allowed as long as white color is used on the front and a red
color is used on back. If a rear red body attachment lamp is used then a red
reflector attached to the bicycle or electric scooter is acceptable on the
rear.
      3.   A citation issued for failure to have a front or rear lamp on a
bicycle or electric scooter or on a bicycle rider or electric scooter operator
as required shall first provide for a seventy two (72) hour period within which
the person charged with the violation shall install, replace or repair the
lamp. If the person complies with the directive to install, replace or repair
the headlamp or rear lamp within the allotted time period, the citation shall
be expunged. If the person fails to comply within the allotted time, the
citation shall be processed in the same manner as other citations.
      3.   A peace officer riding a police bicycle is not required to use
either front or rear lamps if duty so requires.
   B.   Whistles and Sirens Prohibited: No siren or whistle shall be placed or
used on a bicycle or electric scooter as a warning signal or for any other
purpose. This subsection shall not apply to bicycles ridden by peace officers
in the line of duty. (Ord. 5495, 6-10-2019; amd. Ord. 5600, 6-1-2021)
6-2-6: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC SIGNALS AND TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   Obeying All Signs, Signals And Regulations: Every person operating a
bicycle or electric scooter shall obey the directions of official traffic
signals, signs and other control devices applicable to other vehicles, unless
otherwise directed by a police officer, including but not limited to direction
signs relative to turns permitted. If an operator dismounts from the bicycle or
electric scooter he or she shall then obey the regulations applicable to
pedestrians.
   B.   Malfunctioning Lights:
      1.   If a bicyclist or electric scooter operator has stopped pursuant to
encountering a solid red ball or a solid red arrow displayed by a highway
traffic signal control light but the signal remains red more than two (2)
minutes without any obvious reasons such as emergency vehicle preemption or
railroad crossing preemption, and the bicyclist or electric scooter operator
has a reasonable belief that the traffic signal is inoperative or non-
responsive, the bicyclist or electric scooter operator may disregard or disobey
the instructions of the signal and proceed through the intersection after
yielding right-of-way to all conflicting traffic such as vehicles, bicycles,
electric scooters, pedestrians, and other modes of travel provided that the
bicyclist or electric scooter operator cautiously proceeds through the
intersection or crosswalk with reasonable care and consideration for all other
applicable rules of the road.
      2.   The provisions of this subsection B also apply to a bicyclist or
electric scooter operator who has stopped pursuant to encountering a solid
DON'T WALK or solid upraised hand (symbolizing don't walk) indication displayed
by a traffic signal control light. (Ord. 5495, 6-10-2019; amd. Ord. 5600, 6-1-
2021)
6-2-7: PLACE OF RIDING:
   A.   Street or Highway With No Marked Bicycle Lane: Any person operating a
bicycle or electric scooter on a street or highway without a marked bicycle
lane must ride with the flow of traffic on the right side thereof, except under
any of the following situations:
      1.   When riding along another vehicle or bicycle or electric scooter
while overtaking or passing that vehicle or bicycle or electric scooter
proceeding in the same direction.
      2.   When preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a road or
a driveway.
      3.   When avoiding any road condition that may affect the operation of
bicycles or electric scooters, including but not limited to parked vehicles,
drain grates, debris, fixed objects, surface hazards, and substandard width
lanes that make it unsafe to continue along the right side of the roadway.
      4.   When traveling on a facility that would allow bicycle or electric
scooter traffic on the left side of the roadway.
      5.   When a street has parallel-parked cars that, when doors are opened,
could create a collision with the person riding a bicycle or electric scooter.
      6.   When an advanced stop line (i.e., a bicycle box) allows for
bicyclists or electric scooter operators to filter to the front of a traffic
lane at a traffic sign or signal and turn.
      7.   When a person is operating a bicycle or electric scooter upon a
roadway which carries traffic in one direction only and has two (2) or more
marked traffic lanes, the bicyclist or electric scooter operator may ride on
the left traffic lanes.
      8.   When the bicycle or electric scooter is part of a parade or special
event authorized by the City.
   B.   Riding On Shoulder: Bicyclists or electric scooter operators may ride
on the shoulder or a designated bicycle lane.
   C.   Slow Moving Bicyclists Or Electric Scooter Operators: Bicyclists or
electric scooter operators operating on a roadway at less than the normal speed
of traffic shall ride as close to the right curb or edge of the roadway as safe
as practical.
   D.   Bicycle Lane:
      1.   Any person operating a bicycle or electric scooter within a bicycle
lane may move out of the lane unless prohibited by traffic control signs.
      2.   No person operating a bicycle or electric scooter shall leave a
bicycle lane until the movement can be made with reasonable safety and then
only after giving an appropriate signal.
      3.   A bicyclist or electric scooter operator may ride against the flow
of traffic in a bicycle lane designated for counter flow bicycle traffic.
      4.   No person shall drive a motor vehicle in a bicycle lane established
on a roadway except as follows:
         a.   To park where parking is permitted.
         b.   To enter or leave the roadway.
         c.   To prepare for a turn within a safe distance from the
intersection.
         d.   To yield to an approaching emergency vehicle.
   E.   Operation On Sidewalk: Bicycles or electric scooters may be operated
upon the public sidewalks if done in a careful and prudent manner except where
signs are erected that prohibit riding on the sidewalk or when riding on a
sidewalk is prohibited by other laws or ordinances. Riding on a sidewalk in the
Central Business District is prohibited. (Ord. 5495, 6-10-2019; amd. Ord. 5600,
6-1-2021)
6-2-8: PARKING:
No bicycle or electric scooter shall be parked upon a street or sidewalk in
such a manner as to interfere with free passage by the public. A bicycle or
electric scooter may stop, stand or park on a sidewalk if not prohibited by
this Code. (Ord. 5495, 6-10-2019; amd. Ord. 5600, 6-1-2021)
6-2-9: SIGNALING TURNS:
Bicycle or electric scooter operators shall use the following signals to
indicate a turn or a slow/stop:
   A.   Left turn: left hand and arm extended horizontally to left.
   B.   Right turn: left hand and arm extended upward to the left.
   C.   Stop or decrease of speed: left hand and arm extended downward. (Ord.
5495, 6-10-2019; amd. Ord. 5600, 6-1-2021)
6-2-10: PASSING:
   A.   Passing Maneuver: Bicyclists or electric scooter operators may overtake
and pass another vehicle when it is safe to do so. Except as allowed under
subsection
6-2-7A of this chapter, bicyclists or electric scooter operators should always
pass on the left except when the bicyclist or electric scooter operator is in a
bicycle lane or there are two (2) or more lanes in the direction of travel, in
which case passing on the right is permitted. To pass a motor vehicle, the
bicyclist or electric scooter operator must first move to the left lane. After
overtaking the motor vehicle, the bicyclist or electric scooter operator must
return to the right lane once reaching a safe and clear distance in front of
the vehicle.
   B.   Audible Signal: Every person lawfully operating a bicycle or electric
scooter upon a public roadway when approaching another mode of travel such as a
pedestrian or another bicyclist or electric scooter operator shall produce a
clear audible warning signal before overtaking and passing to warn the other
party of the intention to pass. (Ord. 5495, 6-10-2019; amd. Ord. 5600, 6-1-
2021)
6-2-11: YIELD TO PERSONS IN CROSSWALKS:
A person operating a bicycle or electric scooter shall yield the right-of-way
to a pedestrian, bicyclist or electric scooter operator crossing the roadway or
path within any marked crosswalk, or within any unmarked crosswalk at an
intersection or multi-use recreational trail crossing. (Ord. 5495, 6-10-2019;
amd. Ord. 5600, 6-1-2021)
6-2-12: MOTORISTS:
   A.   Yield To Persons In Crosswalk: A person operating a motor vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way to a person, such as a pedestrian, a bicyclist, an
electric scooter operator, a person on a skate board, etc., crossing the
roadway or path within any marked crosswalk, or within any unmarked crosswalk
at an intersection or multi-use recreational trail crossing.
   B.   Separation From Bicycles Or Electric Scooters: A motorist overtaking a
bicycle or electric scooter proceeding in the same direction must allow a safe
and reasonable separation between the vehicle, including any mirror or other
projection, and the side of the bicycle or electric scooter of more than five
feet (5'). A motorist overtaking a bicycle or electric scooter proceeding in
the same direction may partially cross the highway centerline between two (2)
lanes of travel if it can be performed safely and the more than the required
distance of separation is obtained. The driver of the motor vehicle shall
maintain that separation until safely past the overtaken bicycle or electric
scooter.
   C.   Driving Too Close: A person operating a motor vehicle shall not steer
the motor vehicle unreasonably close to or toward a person riding a bicycle or
electric scooter on a street, highway or park road, including the shoulder
adjacent to the street, highway or park road.
   D.   Projecting/Throwing Objects: A person shall not knowingly project or
throw any object or substance at or against a person riding a bicycle or
electric scooter on public roadway.
   E.   Opening Doors Into Moving Traffic: No person shall open any side door
of a motor vehicle located on a street, highway or park road without first
taking precaution to ensure that this action does not interfere with the
movement of traffic or endanger any other person, vehicle, bicyclist or
electric scooter operator. In addition, no person shall leave open any
protruding side door of a motor vehicle located on a street, highway or park
road for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers
and cargo. (Ord. 5495, 6-10-2019; amd. Ord. 5600, 6-1-2021)
6-2-13: VIOLATIONS:
Violations of any provision of this chapter shall be punished by a fine as
established by section
1-3-2 of this Code. The parent or guardian of any person under the age of
eighteen (18) shall not authorize or knowingly permit any such person to
violate any of the provisions of this chapter. The parent or guardian of any
person under the age of eighteen (18) who violates any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be responsible to pay the fines. A violation of any
provision of this chapter by a person under the age of eighteen (18) shall not
affect any civil right or liability nor shall such violation be considered a
criminal offense. (Ord. 5495, 6-10-2019; amd. Ord. 5600, 6-1-2021)
6-2-14: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, provision or part of this chapter shall be adjudged invalid or
unconstitutional, such adjudication shall not affect the validity of this
chapter as a whole or any section, provision or part thereof not adjudged
invalid or unconstitutional. (Ord. 5495, 6-10-2019; amd. Ord. 5600, 6-1-2021)
CHAPTER 3
SNOWMOBILES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Purpose
6-3-2: Definitions
6-3-3: Location Of Operation
6-3-4: Operating Rules And Regulations
6-3-5: Violation; Penalty
6-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide rules and regulations for the
maintenance and operation of snowmobiles and to establish areas where
snowmobiles may be used for the safety and general welfare in the city. (Ord.
2846, 10-4-1976)
6-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For use within this chapter, the following term is defined:
SNOWMOBILE: Any self-propelled vehicle weighing less than one thousand (1,000)
pounds which is equipped with sled type runners or skis and endless belt type
tread, or a combination thereof, and is designed for travel upon snow, land or
ice. (Ord. 2846, 10-4-1976)
6-3-3: LOCATION OF OPERATION:
Operators of snowmobiles shall observe the following limitations as to where
snowmobiles may be operated. Motor-driven snowmobiles shall be prohibited from
all streets within the corporate limits of the city, except those streets
enumerated below; and snowmobile travel on those streets shall be strictly
limited to ingress and egress to and from food, parking, fuel and restroom
facilities within the city:
Route 1:
   Greyhound Drive   Both ditches from Highway 63 to north entrance of Waterloo
Greyhound Park
   Highway 63   Both ditches from south city limits to Ridgeway Avenue
   Marnie Drive   Both ditches from Highway 63 to end of street
Route 2:
   Elk Run Road   Both ditches from Donald Street to Independence Avenue
Route 3:
   Airline Highway   South ditch from Highway 63 approximately four (4) blocks
west
   Crossing of Highway 63   North at Airline Highway
Route 4:
   Highway 218   Both ditches from east city limits to Marigold Drive
Route 5:
   Broadway Street   South ditch from entrance to George Wyth State Park to
Cedar Bend Street
   Cedar Bend Street   West ditch from Broadway Street to Woodmayr Drive
   Wagner Road   Both ditches from north city limits to Broadway Street
(Ord. 4141, 12-11-1995)
6-3-4: OPERATING RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The following rules and regulations shall be observed by operators of
snowmobiles 1 :
   A.   All snowmobiles shall be registered and equipped in accordance with
state laws.
   B.   A person shall not operate a snowmobile on any public road or street
without a bright colored pennant or flag displayed at least sixty inches (60")
above the ground. Said pennant or flag shall be a minimum of six inches by nine
inches (6" x 9"), shall be orange and shall provide a fluorescent effect.
   C.   The headlight and taillight of a snowmobile shall be lighted during
operation at any time from sunset to sunrise, and at such other times when
conditions such as fog, snow, sleet or rain provide insufficient lighting to
render clearly discernible persons and vehicles at a distance of five hundred
feet (500') ahead. (Ord. 4141, 12-11-1995)
   D.   A snowmobile shall not be operated on or across a public street or on
public land by a person under eighteen (18) years of age who does not have in
the person's possession a safety certificate issued to the person by the state
of Iowa. A person twelve (12) to fifteen (15) years of age and possessing a
valid safety certificate must be under the direct supervision of a parent,
guardian, or another adult authorized by the parent or guardian, who is
experienced in snowmobile operation, and who possesses a valid motor vehicle
license or a safety certificate issued by the state of Iowa. A person under
twelve (12) years of age shall not operate a snowmobile unless accompanied on
the same snowmobile by a responsible person at least eighteen (18) years of age
who is experienced in snowmobile operation and who possesses a valid motor
vehicle license or safety certificate. These restrictions shall not apply on
private land. (Ord. 4550, 5-13-2002)
   E.   A person shall not drive or operate a snowmobile at a rate of speed
greater than the posted speed limit, or at a rate of speed greater than
reasonable or proper under all existing circumstances.
   F.   Snowmobile operators shall be required to observe all traffic control
devices.
   G.   No snowmobile shall be operated within the city limits between the
hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
   H.   A snowmobile may make a direct crossing of a street or highway
provided:
      1.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately ninety degrees
(90°) to the direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction
prevents a quick and safe crossing; and
      2.   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or main traveled way of the highway; and
      3.   The driver yields the right of way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard; and
      4.   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another public street or highway.
   I.   A snowmobile may be operated on the roadway or shoulder when necessary
to cross a bridge or culvert, or avoid an obstruction which makes it impossible
to travel on the portion of the highway not intended for motor vehicles, if the
snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before entering onto the roadway or
shoulder and the driver yields the right of way to any approaching vehicle on
the roadway.
   J.   A person shall not drive or operate a snowmobile while under the
influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotics or habit forming drugs.
   K.   Snowmobiles shall be operated in a safe, reasonable and proper manner
under all existing circumstances.
   L.   No snowmobile shall be operated on private property without the express
consent of the owner.
   M.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator to leave or allow a
snowmobile to be or remain unattended on public property while the motor is
running or with keys for starting the vehicle left in the ignition.
   N.   During publicized thaw ban, snowmobiles shall be prohibited from use
when posted. (Ord. 4141, 12-11-1995)
 
Notes
1 1. Iowa Code § 321G.1 et seq.
6-3-5: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a municipal infraction and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as
provided in subsection
1-3-2C of this code. (Ord. 2846, 1976; amd. Ord. 4441, 10-16-2000)
CHAPTER 4
OFF ROAD UTILITY VEHICLES (ORVs)
SECTION:
6-4-1: Purpose
6-4-2: Definitions
6-4-3: General Regulations
6-4-4: Off Road Utility Vehicles Registered
6-4-5: Authorized Uses
6-4-6: Equipment
6-4-7: Operation
6-4-8: Locations
6-4-9: Accident Reports
6-4-10: Violation And Penalty
6-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to allow the operation of off road utility
vehicles (ORVs) on certain streets and alleys for the purpose of snow removal,
lawn care, landscaping, gardening, construction, maintenance, farming,
functions related to emergency services, and parades within the city of
Waterloo as authorized and pursuant to section 321.234A and chapter 321I of the
code of Iowa, as amended from time to time. (Ord. 5124, 7-9-2012)
6-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
OFF ROAD UTILITY VEHICLE (ORV): A motorized flotation tire vehicle with not
less than four (4) and not more than eight (8) low pressure tires that is
limited in engine displacement to less than one thousand five hundred (1,500)
cubic centimeters and in total dry weight to not more than one thousand eight
hundred (1,800) pounds and that has a seat that is of bucket or bench design,
not intended to be straddled by the operator, and a steering wheel or control
levers for control.
SPECIAL EVENT: An event held outdoors on public property or streets that can
reasonably be expected to cause a public gathering that is not part of the
normal course of business at the location. (Ord. 5124, 7-9-2012)
6-4-3: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
No person shall operate an ORV within the city limits of the city of Waterloo,
Iowa, in violation of the provisions of chapter 321I of the code of Iowa or
rules enacted by the Iowa department of natural resources governing the
registration, numbering, equipping or manner of operation; or the provisions of
this chapter. (Ord. 5124, 7-9-2012)
6-4-4: OFF ROAD UTILITY VEHICLES REGISTERED:
No person shall operate an ORV on any city street or alley for any purpose
unless said vehicle is registered with the Iowa department of natural resources
and such registration is displayed in accordance with Iowa Code chapter 321I
and regulations thereunder. (Ord. 5124, 7-9-2012)
6-4-5: AUTHORIZED USES:
ORVs may only be operated on city streets and alleys in compliance with all
requirements of this chapter and for the following purposes:
   A.   Snow removal by means of attached snowplow or blade.
   B.   Gardening, landscaping, and/or lawn work.
   C.   Transporting equipment and personnel as part of construction,
maintenance, special events, or farm work.
   D.   By emergency response personnel (police, fire, and EMS).
   E.   Parades. (Ord. 5124, 7-9-2012)
6-4-6: EQUIPMENT:
Any ORV operated on city streets or alleys shall be equipped as required by
sections 321I.12 and 321I.13 of the code of Iowa, including, but not limited
to: muffler, headlight, taillight, turn signals and brakes. (Ord. 5124, 7-9-
2012)
6-4-7: OPERATION:
   A.   Age And License Requirements: No person shall operate an ORV on any
city street, alley or right of way who is not at least eighteen (18) years of
age and does not have a valid Iowa driver's license.
   B.   Traffic Code: Any person operating an ORV shall strictly adhere to all
traffic signs and signals and all other traffic rules and regulations, and
shall obey the orders and direction of any law enforcement officer authorized
to direct or regulate traffic.
   C.   Speed: No ORV shall be operated at a speed in excess of the lesser of
twenty five (25) miles per hour or the posted speed limit, nor shall any ORV be
operated at a speed greater than is reasonable and proper for the existing
conditions.
   D.   Lights: No ORV shall be operated without a lighted headlight and
taillight at such times when conditions provide insufficient lighting to render
persons and vehicles clearly discernable at a distance of five hundred feet
(500') ahead.
   E.   Passengers: The number of occupants shall not exceed the number of
seats installed by the manufacturer in said vehicle. Passengers on an ORV must
be able to place both feet flat on the floorboards with their backs resting
against the seat back. (Ord. 5124, 7-9-2012)
6-4-8: LOCATIONS:
   A.   City Streets:   ORVs may be operated upon streets and alleys under the
jurisdiction and within the corporate limits of the city of Waterloo for the
purposes stated in this chapter. An ORV shall not be operated upon any city
street that is a primary road extension or state highway. ORVs may cross such
primary road extensions but cannot cross a state highway unless approved by the
Iowa department of transportation.
   B.   Private Property:   ORVs may only be operated on private property with
the express consent of the owner. (Ord. 5124, 7-9-2012)
6-4-9: ACCIDENT REPORTS:
Either the operator, or someone acting for the operator, shall immediately
notify a law enforcement officer whenever an ORV is involved in an accident
resulting in injury or death to anyone, or property damage amounting to one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or more. (Ord. 5124, 7-9-2012)
6-4-10: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a municipal infraction and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as
provided in subsection
1-3-2C of this code. (Ord. 5124, 7-9-2012)
CHAPTER 5
CIVIL SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-5-1: Statement Of Policy
6-5-2: Definitions
6-5-3: Vehicles Subject To Seizure; Penalty
6-5-4: Towing; Notice Of Right To Administrative Hearing
6-5-5: Release To Lienholder
6-5-6: Procedure For Claiming Vehicles Eligible For Release
6-5-7: Disposal Of Unclaimed Or Abandoned Vehicles
6-5-8: Exceptions To Penalty
6-5-9: Waiver Authority
6-5-10: Calculation Of Time
6-5-1: STATEMENT OF POLICY:
It is the policy of the city of Waterloo that motor vehicles used in connection
with certain illegal conduct shall be subject to civil seizure and impoundment
in accordance with the procedures set forth herein, so as to deter the use of
vehicles as specified herein. (Ord. 5239, 9-15-2014)
6-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, unless the context indicates otherwise, the
following words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to
them in this section:
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES: Any substance as defined and included in section
124.204, 124.206, 124.208, 124.210, or 124.212 of the Iowa Code.
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA: Any equipment, products and materials as defined in section
124.414 of the Iowa Code.
ELUDING OR ATTEMPTING TO ELUDE A POLICE OFFICER: Any offense as defined in
section 321.279 of the Iowa Code.
ILLEGAL PRESCRIPTION DRUG: Any drug or device limited to dispensation by
prescription, as provided by Iowa Code section 155A.21, that was not lawfully
dispensed within the meaning of Iowa Code chapter 155A to the party found in
possession thereof or to the registered owner of the motor vehicle.
INTIMIDATION WITH A DANGEROUS WEAPON: Any offense as defined in section 708.6
of the Iowa Code.
LIENHOLDER: Any person or entity that has a recorded security interest, lien or
other encumbrance that is noted on a vehicle's certificate of title or in
public vehicle ownership records.
OPERATING A MOTOR VEHICLE ON A REVOKED OR BARRED LICENSE: An offense as defined
in section 321.56, 321.218, or 321J.21 of the Iowa Code.
OPERATING A MOTOR VEHICLE WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR DRUGS: Any
offense as defined in chapter 321J of the Iowa Code.
OWNER: Any person or entity that is shown as the registered owner on the
vehicle's certificate of title or public vehicle ownership records.
PRECURSOR: Any substance as defined in 124.401(4) of the code of Iowa.
PROSTITUTION: Shall have the same meaning as that provided in Iowa Code section
725.1.
STOLEN PROPERTY: Property obtained by theft, as such term is defined in Iowa
Code section 714.1.
WEAPONS OFFENSE: Any offense as defined in section 708.6, 724.3, 724.4, 724.4A,
724.4B, 724.16A, 724.22, 724.26, 724.29, or 724.30 of the Iowa Code. (Ord.
5239, 9-15-2014)
6-5-3: VEHICLES SUBJECT TO SEIZURE; PENALTY:
   A.   Use of a motor vehicle in any manner specified in this subsection shall
subject the motor vehicle to seizure, impoundment and civil penalty as provided
in this chapter.
      1.   Using a motor vehicle while manufacturing, selling and/or delivering
a controlled substance, precursor, drug paraphernalia and/or illegal
prescription drug.
      2.   Using a motor vehicle while illegally manufacturing and/or selling a
drug or device limited to dispensation by prescription. For purposes of this
subsection A2, the term "selling" includes delivery of the drug or device
following said sale.
      3.   Operating a motor vehicle on a revoked or barred license.
      4.   Operating a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcohol or
drugs.
      5.   Using a motor vehicle while eluding or attempting to elude a police
officer.
      6.   Using a motor vehicle in connection with an offense described in
Iowa Code section 321.261, whether or not the subject vehicle is actually used
to leave the scene.
      7.   Using a motor vehicle while committing a weapons offense.
      8.   Using a motor vehicle while engaged in prostitution or the
solicitation thereof.
      9.   Using a motor vehicle while possessing or transporting stolen
property.
   B.   Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, the owner of such vehicle
shall be liable to the city for a civil penalty of two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00), for the cost of service of any notices, and for any and all fees and
charges for towing and storage of the vehicle. (Ord. 5239, 9-15-2014)
6-5-4: TOWING; NOTICE OF RIGHT TO ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING:
   A.   Seizure; Initial Notice: Whenever a police officer has probable cause
to believe a vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to section
6-5-3 of this chapter, the officer shall provide for the towing of the vehicle
to a facility controlled by the city or its agent(s). When the vehicle is
towed, the officer shall determine who, if anyone, was in control of the
vehicle at the time of the events giving rise to probable cause for seizure and
impoundment. The officer shall then notify that person, in writing, that the
vehicle is being seized and that the owner or any lienholder has a right to an
administrative hearing on whether the subject vehicle was in fact used as
specified in section
6-5-3 of this chapter. The written notice shall also state that, pending any
administrative hearing, the vehicle may be released as provided in this
section.
   B.   Notice: Within ten (10) days after a vehicle is towed, the city or its
agent shall send written notification to each owner and lienholder of the
vehicle, setting forth their right to request a hearing as provided in this
section. Notice shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to
the last known address of any owners and lienholders, or the notice may be
personally served and either an affidavit of service prepared or written
acknowledgement obtained from the party served. The notice shall describe the
year, make, model and vehicle identification number of the vehicle, as well as
state the location of the facility where the vehicle is being held. The notice
shall also state that, pending any administrative hearing, the subject vehicle
may be released as provided in this chapter. The notice shall state the
penalties that may be imposed, including the fact that failure to reclaim the
vehicle within the time allowed shall be deemed a waiver of all right, title,
claim and interest in the vehicle or personal property and shall be deemed to
be consent to sale of the vehicle at a public auction or disposal of the
vehicle to a demolisher and to disposal of the personal property by sale or
destruction.
   C.   Release Pending Hearing: A vehicle that has been seized and impounded
under this chapter may be released to the owner of the vehicle if the owner
posts with the city a cash bond, in form acceptable to the police department
record's division, in the amount of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), pays
the cost of service of any notices, and makes payment in full for the fees and
charges of towing and storage of the vehicle, which payment shall be made to
the party to whom the fees and charges are owed.
   D.   Administrative Hearing: If the vehicle owner or a lienholder wishes to
request an administrative hearing, said request shall be made in writing within
ten (10) days of the date on which the notice provided for in subsection B of
this section was either mailed or personally served upon the party requesting
the hearing, and the request shall be delivered personally by the requestor to
the Waterloo police department. If the owner or lienholder cannot appear in
person, then a request for an administrative hearing can be made in any manner
that is preapproved by the Waterloo police department for that particular owner
or lienholder. Any request for a hearing must include the address and telephone
number at which the owner or lienholder is to be contacted regarding the
hearing. Unless continued to a later date by order of the hearing officer, the
hearing shall be scheduled and held within five (5) days after the request for
a hearing is actually received by the Waterloo police department. If the
request for hearing was made in a manner other than in person, notice of the
scheduled hearing date and location shall be given in the same manner in which
the request for hearing was received with preapproval of the Waterloo police
department as provided for herein. Notice of the scheduled hearing provided
electronically, by fax or by mail shall be deemed given when sent. At the
hearing, all interested parties shall be given a reasonable opportunity to be
heard. Formal rules of evidence and procedure shall not apply, and hearsay
evidence shall be admissible. The hearing officer shall not be an employee of
the city of Waterloo.
   E.   Decision:
      1.   The hearing officer shall render a decision based on a preponderance
of the evidence. The decision of a hearing officer shall be deemed a final
agency action and shall be subject to judicial review in accordance with Iowa
law. Regardless of the outcome of the administrative hearing, the vehicle and
all interested parties' rights to the vehicle and the personal property
contents thereof shall be subject to all procedures set forth in this chapter
with respect to the claiming and release of impounded vehicles, disposal of
unclaimed vehicles and personal property, fees and charges, and applicable
exceptions.
      2.   If the hearing officer determines that the vehicle was not used as
specified in section
6-5-3 of this chapter, then the hearing officer shall order the return of the
subject vehicle (or return of the cash bond if one was posted for release of
the vehicle, allowing the city a reasonable time in which to do so),
cancellation of the two hundred fifty dollar ($250.00) civil penalty and no
further imposition of any fine, fees, or charges relating to the impoundment.
Any fees or charges other than the civil penalty which have accrued up to the
time of such determination by the hearing officer, however, shall remain due
and owing, and any such fees or charges owed to the city shall be deducted from
any cash bond prior to the return of said cash bond.
      3.   If the hearing officer determines that the vehicle was used as
specified in section
6-5-3 of this chapter, then the hearing officer shall order that the vehicle
continue to be held in impound until the owner satisfies each condition for
release of the vehicle, or until the vehicle is deemed abandoned. If a cash
bond was posted and the vehicle released before the hearing, the hearing
officer shall order the cash bond surrendered to the city as payment of the two
hundred fifty dollar ($250.00) civil penalty. (Ord. 5239, 9-15-2014)
6-5-5: RELEASE TO LIENHOLDER:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, whenever a lienholder of a
vehicle impounded under this chapter has commenced foreclosure or replevin
proceedings and provides to the city satisfactory proof of the commencement of
such proceedings and of the lienholder's entitlement to immediate possession of
the vehicle, possession of the vehicle shall be delivered to that lienholder if
the lienholder provides written indemnification to the city for any and all
claims of the lienholder, an owner or any third party arising out of the
seizure, impoundment and possession of the vehicle pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 5239, 9-15-2014)
6-5-6: PROCEDURE FOR CLAIMING VEHICLES ELIGIBLE FOR RELEASE:
   A.   If a vehicle seized under this chapter is eligible to be released, the
person claiming the vehicle may be required by the city to present to the city
or its agent in possession of the vehicle one or more of the following items: a
certificate of title, bill of sale, or valid registration for the vehicle; a
government issued photo ID for the person claiming the vehicle; and/or a
physical document showing proof of security against liability (insurance) for
the vehicle in effect as of the date the vehicle is to be released from
impound. In addition, the claimant shall pay to the city any and all civil
penalties and costs of service of notice and shall pay to the facility holding
the vehicle all fees and charges of towing and storage. (Ord. 5239, 9-15-2014)
6-5-7: DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED OR ABANDONED VEHICLES:
Any motor vehicle impounded pursuant to this chapter and not properly claimed
by or on behalf of the owner, lienholder or other claimant within ten (10) days
of the date of delivery of proper notice or the date of issuance of the hearing
officer's decision, whichever is later, shall be deemed abandoned and may be
disposed of as provided by Iowa law governing abandoned vehicles, without
further notice. (Ord. 5239, 9-15-2014)
6-5-8: EXCEPTIONS TO PENALTY:
A vehicle owner shall not be subject to the civil penalty provided for in this
chapter if either of the following applies:
   A.   The vehicle in question was stolen at the time the police officer
formed probable cause to believe the vehicle was subject to seizure, and the
theft was officially reported to the appropriate law enforcement official as
soon as the theft was discovered or reasonably should have been discovered; or
   B.   The vehicle was operating as a common carrier, including, but not
limited to, a taxicab or bus, and the violation occurred without the knowledge
of the person operating the vehicle as a common carrier. (Ord. 5239, 9-15-2014)
6-5-9: WAIVER AUTHORITY:
   A.   The chief of police or his or her designee has the authority to waive
seizure and impoundment of a vehicle or the civil penalty, costs, fees and
charges involved in seizure and impoundment of a vehicle without a hearing if,
in the sole discretion of the chief or his or her designee, there is sufficient
cause to believe that such waiver would be in the best interest of public
safety and community welfare or that errors by an administrative agency led to
the erroneous impoundment of a vehicle.
   B.   In the matter of a stolen vehicle being reported to police, a criminal
investigation will be conducted into the circumstances surrounding the theft
before the waiver of any civil penalty, costs, fees or charges shall be
authorized. Anyone found to have filed a false criminal report is subject to
prosecution as otherwise provided by law. (Ord. 5239, 9-15-2014)
6-5-10: CALCULATION OF TIME:
For purposes of calculating notifications under this chapter, holidays
recognized by the city of Waterloo and weekends shall be excluded. For purposes
of calculating storage fees under this chapter, calendar days shall be used.
(Ord. 5239, 9-15-2014)
CHAPTER 6
IMPOUNDMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES BY DEPARTMENTS OTHER THAN POLICE
SECTION:
6-6-1: Statement Of Policy
6-6-2: Summons
6-6-3: Procedure
6-6-4: Release To Lienholder
6-6-5: Disposal Of Unclaimed Or Abandoned Vehicles
6-6-1: STATEMENT OF POLICY:
It is the policy of the city of Waterloo that motor vehicles shall be subject
to impoundment in the following circumstances, in accordance with the
procedures set forth in this chapter:
   A.   The motor vehicle is parked in any city owned parking lot or ramp in
the city of Waterloo for a continuous period of more than forty eight (48)
hours, as provided in section 273 of the city of Waterloo traffic code.
   B.   The motor vehicle is parked on a designated priority one snow removal
route during a snow removal parking ban, as provided in section 310 of the city
of Waterloo traffic code. (Ord. 5245, 10-13-2014)
6-6-2: SUMMONS:
The issuance of a summons (parking violation and information) for a vehicle
found parked illegally under this chapter is discretionary. If it is determined
that a summons be issued, it may be issued by city personnel other than police
officers, as authorized by sections 272 and 310 of the city of Waterloo traffic
code. (Ord. 5245, 10-13-2014)
6-6-3: PROCEDURE:
Prior to the towing and impoundment of a vehicle under this chapter, the
following procedures must be followed:
   A.   For a vehicle towed under subsection
6-6-1A of this chapter, a city employee shall affix to the vehicle an
"abandoned vehicle warning" designating the amount of time the owner has to
remove the vehicle. After this amount of time has elapsed, the vehicle may be
towed. The city clerk's office shall keep a written record of all vehicles
towed under this subsection.
   B.   For a vehicle towed under subsection
6-6-1B of this chapter, the standards established under section 310 of the city
of Waterloo traffic code shall be followed.
   C.   A vehicle towed under subsection
6-6-1A or B of this chapter shall only be towed by the tow company utilized by
the police department pursuant to chapter 5 of this title.
   D.   A vehicle towed under this chapter shall be towed at the owner's
expense. The vehicle may be released to the owner(s) if the owner(s) makes
payment in full for the fees and charges of towing and storage of the vehicle
to the tow company. (Ord. 5245, 10-13-2014)
6-6-4: RELEASE TO LIENHOLDER:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, whenever a lienholder of a
vehicle impounded under this chapter has commenced foreclosure or replevin
proceedings and provides to the city satisfactory proof of the commencement of
such proceedings and of the lienholder's entitlement to immediate possession of
the vehicle, possession of the vehicle shall be delivered to that lienholder if
the lienholder provides written indemnification to the city for any and all
claims of the lienholder, an owner or any third party arising out of the
seizure, impoundment and possession of the vehicle pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 5245, 10-13-2014)
6-6-5: DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED OR ABANDONED VEHICLES:
Any motor vehicle impounded pursuant to this chapter and not properly claimed
by or on behalf of the owner, lienholder or other claimant after proper notice
under Iowa law governing abandoned vehicles, shall be deemed abandoned and may
be disposed of as provided by such law, without further notice. (Ord. 5245, 10-
13-2014)
CHAPTER 7
PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS
SECTION:
6-7-1: Purpose
6-7-2: Definitions
6-7-3: Standards Governing The Off-Street Parking Or Storage Of Vehicles As An
Accessory Use On Residential Properties
6-7-4: Impoundment Of Illegally Parked Vehicles
6-7-5: Enforcement
6-7-6: Request For Variance Or Appeal
6-7-1: PURPOSE:
The special provisions of this chapter are intended to regulate the location of
vehicles parked on residential properties. It is the desire of the city of
Waterloo to encourage an aesthetically pleasing local environment. It is also
the intent of the city of Waterloo to avoid the obstruction of public streets
and sidewalks, improve traffic visibility and maintain the visual harmony and
character appropriate in residential neighborhoods within the city. The
objectives to be attained through this chapter include preserving and improving
the peace, safety, health, welfare, comfort and convenience of the citizens of
the city of Waterloo, minimizing the adverse visual effects of parking on
residential property, and allowing for the reasonable use of driveways in the
front yard for parking. (Ord. 5398, 4-24-2017)
6-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, unless the context indicates otherwise, the
following words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to
them in this section:
DRIVEWAY: That portion of private property, paved or unpaved, that provides
vehicular access to a property from the public right of way or between private
properties, and where said driveway is specifically designated for or commonly
utilized as an accessway by vehicles to parking lots, parking areas, garages,
storage facilities, etc. Driveways serving residential uses may extend along
the side or rear of the dwelling and in some cases, may terminate in a
designated parking lot, parking area, garage, or storage facility in the side
or rear yard area. A private driveway begins at the property line and extends
into or across the site.
A driveway may extend into or across the front yard area of a residential
property. The driveway may terminate in the front yard area of a dwelling
provided that the termination area is a garage or carport or a parking area
authorized by this chapter. The parking area shall be included in the hard
surface area, conforming to subsection
6-7-3A2 of this chapter regulating the area of a hard surface driveway and
parking area permitted in the front yard. No portion of a driveway situated in
the front yard of a residential property may be extended beyond the width of
the garage(s) that the driveway serves or, if there is not a garage (attached
or detached) that is served by the driveway or if the garage is a detached
structure in the rear yard, the width of the driveway at the street right of
way (property line) unless said extension meets the requirements of a driveway
extension. In all cases, the driveway must be at least the same width dimension
as the outside width dimension of a vehicle which it serves. This restriction
shall not prohibit the construction of a parking area for multi-family
residential uses in a front yard if otherwise allowed by the zoning ordinance.
DRIVEWAY EXTENSION: For a one- or two-family residential property, any
extension to the driveway situated in the front yard beyond the width of the
garage(s) that the driveway serves or, if there is not a garage (attached or
detached) that is served by the driveway or if the garage is a detached
structure in the rear yard, beyond the width of the driveway at the street
right of way (property line).
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Any vehicle whose primary purpose is recreation/
entertainment and not a primary means of transportation. These include, but are
not limited to, boats, trailers, campers, and motor homes.
VEHICLE: Any device in, upon or by which a person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway or street, excepting devices moved by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, and shall include,
without limitation, a motor vehicle, automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle,
tractor, buggy, wagon, farm machinery or any combination thereof.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the full width of the lot and measured
between the front lot line and the foundation of a principal building or any
projection thereof, other than the projection of the usual steps, overhanging
balconies, other ordinary projections, or unenclosed porches or decks. On
corner lots, the front yard shall include that portion of the lot between the
principal structure and the street right of way on both street sides of the
lot.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the full width of lot and measured between
the rear lot line and the foundation of a principal building or any projections
thereof, other than the projection of the usual steps, overhanging balconies,
other ordinary projections, or unenclosed porches or decks. On corner lots the
rear yard is the opposite end of lot from the front yard where the house is
addressed and faces.
YARD, SIDE: A yard extending from the front yard to the rear yard and measured
between the side lot lines and the foundation of a principal building or any
projection thereof, other than the projection of the usual steps, overhanging
balconies, or other ordinary projections. (Ord. 5398, 4-24-2017)
6-7-3: STANDARDS GOVERNING THE OFF-STREET PARKING OR STORAGE OF VEHICLES AS AN
ACCESSORY USE ON RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES:
   A.   General Restrictions:
      1.   No more than four (4) vehicles, excluding recreational vehicles and
trailers with a recreational vehicle on it, shall be parked outside an approved
garage on a one- or two-family residential property. For any other residential
property, the maximum number of such vehicles shall be two (2) per legally
established dwelling unit within a structure. Notwithstanding the foregoing
restrictions, the maximum number of such vehicles may increase to a number not
more than the number of licensed drivers legally residing at the property.
      2.   Any vehicles parked outside an approved garage shall be parked on
concrete (5 inches portland cement concrete minimum), asphalt (4 inches of hot
mix asphalt on a 6 inch rock base minimum), or gravel (6 inches minimum).
Grass, patio pavers, bricks, or similar products are not an approved parking
surface unless said patio pavers, bricks, or similar products are placed over a
minimum depth of four inches (4") of rock base. In all cases the parking
surface must be at least equal to the outside dimensions of a vehicle which it
serves, except in a rear or side yard in which case the vehicle may be parked
on parking pads of an approved surface that are a minimum of two feet by two
feet (2' x 2') under each wheel or supporting structure of the vehicle. For
one- and two-family residential properties, gravel shall be an approved parking
surface in a rear or side yard. Gravel is not an approved parking surface in a
front yard, or for any parking surface for a multi-family residential property.
For one- and two-family residential properties with existing gravel driveways
in a front yard built prior to enactment of this chapter, such driveways shall
be permitted to remain, and may be maintained and repaired, but shall not be
enlarged without being brought into compliance with this chapter. For one- and
two- family residential properties, the width of a driveway in the front yard
shall be limited to the width of the garage(s) that the driveway serves, and in
all other cases, including a driveway that serves a detached garage in the rear
yard, the width shall be limited to the width of the driveway at the street
right of way (property line). Existing parking areas in the front yard that
extend past the driveway (i.e., a driveway extension) of a one- or two-family
residential property built prior to enactment of this chapter shall be
permitted to remain, and may be maintained or replaced, but shall not be
enlarged without being brought into compliance with this chapter. Existing
gravel areas for parking surfaces for multi-family residential property shall
be subject to applicable nonconforming use provisions of the city of Waterloo
zoning ordinance, if legally constructed prior to adoption of ordinance 2479 on
February 3, 1969. Nonconforming status shall not apply to gravel areas created
after February 3, 1969, for multi-family residential properties or to gravel
areas for one- or two-family residential property converted to multi- family
residential property after February 3, 1969. Parking is permitted in the rear
and side yards, subject to compliance with the applicable requirements of this
paragraph.
      3.   No one- or two-family residential property shall have a driveway
extension more than ten feet (10') wide measured perpendicular to the length of
the driveway in the front yard. However, this restriction shall not prohibit
the construction of a driveway and driveway extension of up to twenty feet
(20') in total width where there is no garage served by the driveway or where
the driveway serves a detached garage in the rear yard, nor shall it prohibit
the construction of a circular drive if otherwise approved by the city engineer
and meeting the requirements of this code, nor shall it prohibit a driveway
extension that is more than ten feet (10') wide measured perpendicular to the
length of the driveway when used for a turnaround (hammerhead) and not used for
parking.
   B.   Parking In Front Yards: No parking shall be allowed in the front yard
of a residential property or any portion of such front yard unless the area is
a permitted "driveway" or "driveway extension" as defined in this chapter.
   C.   Front Yard Parking Citation:
      1.   Illegally Parked Vehicle: No person shall drive, stop, stand, or
park a vehicle onto or upon the front yard of a property, except as permitted
by this section or except for work in progress, such as construction, tree
trimming, etc., or temporary activities such as deliveries or vehicle washing
not exceeding two (2) hours. A violation of this section shall place such
vehicle in the status of an illegally parked vehicle and the vehicle may be
dealt with pursuant to this chapter.
      2.   Citation: In lieu of a citation for a municipal infraction, a person
who violates any provision of this section may be issued a front yard parking
citation in the amount of forty dollars ($40.00).
      3.   Prima Facie Presumption: In any proceeding charging a violation of
this chapter, proof that the particular vehicle described in the information
was parked in violation of this chapter, together with proof that the defendant
named in the information was the registered owner of the vehicle or the owner
of the property on which said vehicle was unlawfully parked at the time of the
alleged violation, shall constitute a prima facie presumption that the
registered vehicle owner and/or the property owner was the person violating
this chapter or allowing the violation to occur.
   D.   Parking Of Recreational Vehicles:
      1.   Not more than three (3) recreational vehicles shall be parked on any
one- or two-family residential property. Visitor parking shall be limited to
not more than thirty (30) days per calendar year.
      2.   The leasing of parking for purposes of storing recreational vehicles
is prohibited on any property that has a residential dwelling or dwellings as a
primary use.
   E.   Use As Residence: No recreational vehicle shall be used as a temporary
or permanent residence, except in a conforming recreational vehicle park or
campground or within the time permitted for visitor parking as noted in
subsection D1 of this section. (Ord. 5398, 4-24-2017; amd. Ord. 5577, 10-12-
2020)
6-7-4: IMPOUNDMENT OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES:
As an additional or alternative remedy to the issuance of a citation as
provided in subsection
6-7-3C of this chapter, vehicles that are stopped or parked in violation of
this chapter or other city ordinances may be removed and impounded as provided
in this section.
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Upon discovery of any vehicle parked upon private
property in violation of this chapter, the enforcing officer shall notify the
owner of the vehicle, all lienholders, if they can be identified, and the owner
of the property by at least one of the following methods: 1) by delivering a
copy of the notice to the individual personally; 2) by serving, at the
individual's dwelling house or usual place of abode, any person residing
therein who is at least eighteen (18) years old; 3) by serving the individual's
spouse at a place other than the individual's dwelling house or usual place of
abode; 4) by sending a copy thereof by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the last known address of the recipient; or 5) by sending a copy
thereof by first class mail to the last known address of the recipient and by
posting a copy thereof in a conspicuous place at the subject property. As an
alternative to service of notice by any of the foregoing means, notice by one
publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the city of Waterloo shall
be sufficient to meet the requirements of this subsection. The published notice
may contain multiple listings of vehicles but shall be published within the
same time requirements and shall contain the same information as prescribed for
mailing notice in this subsection. Published notice may be used if: 1) the
identity of the last registered owner cannot be determined; or 2) the
registration contains no address for the owner; or 3) it is impossible to
determine with reasonable certainty the identity and address of all
lienholders. Notice shall be deemed given either when personally served, when
mailed, or when published. If notice served only by certified mail is returned
undelivered by the U.S. post office, action to impound the vehicle shall be
continued to a date not less than ten (10) days from the date of such action.
This notice shall contain the following information:
      1.   That the vehicle is in violation of this chapter;
      2.   A description, to the extent possible, of the year, make, model,
color, and location of the vehicle;
      3.   That the owner of the vehicle and/or the property owner must remove
the vehicle or correct the violation in accordance with this chapter;
      4.   That failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter within
seven (7) days from the date notice is given, the owner of the vehicle and the
property owner shall be liable for the violation;
      5.   That the vehicle will be removed by the city and impounded at the
owner's expense; and
      6.   That if the vehicle is not redeemed within thirty (30) days after
impoundment, the owner of the vehicle, the property owner and the lienholders
shall no longer have any right, title, claim or interest in or to the vehicle
or the personal property contained therein.
   B.   Abatement: If the owner of the vehicle or the owner of the property
upon which the vehicle is located fails to remove the vehicle in accordance
with the terms of this chapter, the enforcement officer shall abate such
violation by causing the vehicle to be removed and impounded and sold or
disposed of as specified herein, and the cost of abatement shall be charged to
the owner of the vehicle and/or the owner of the property.
   C.   Redemption Of Impounded Vehicle; Abandonment: Within thirty (30) days
after the impoundment of any vehicle under this section, the owner thereof may
appear and claim the vehicle or the personal property contained therein. The
vehicle shall be released after the owner provides proof of ownership, pays an
impoundment fee, and pays towing and storage charges. Personal property
contents shall be released after the owner provides proof of ownership of the
vehicle. If no owner makes a timely claim for the vehicle, the owner shall no
longer have any right, title, claim or interest in or to the vehicle and its
remaining contents, and the vehicle may be disposed of as provided by Iowa law
governing abandoned vehicles, currently codified at section 321.89 of the code
of Iowa. During the period of impoundment, the impoundment facility at which
the vehicle is being stored shall be responsible for the vehicle. (Ord. 5398,
4-24-2017)
6-7-5: ENFORCEMENT:
Code enforcement officers and officers of the Waterloo police department are
authorized to enforce the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 5398, 4-24-2017)
6-7-6: REQUEST FOR VARIANCE OR APPEAL:
A person who, either being charged with violation of this chapter or in
anticipation of being charged with such violation, desires to request an
exception to the application of any provision of this chapter due to
extraordinary hardships or practical difficulties, may file an application for
a variance or appeal with the city clerk and pay a filing fee as set by
resolution of the city council. The application shall state the relief
requested and the grounds therefor. As to any citation or notice of violation
issued pursuant to this chapter, the application must be filed within seven (7)
days after the citation or notice is delivered. Hearing on the application
shall be scheduled for a date within thirty (30) days after the application is
filed and the fee paid, and it shall be scheduled for no more than twenty (20)
minutes in length or, if the applicant requests an extension of time, such
additional time as the city council or its designated committee, in its
discretion, may deem necessary. If the applicant desires additional time, he or
she must request it at least seven (7) days before the scheduled hearing date.
A variance shall not have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of
this chapter. The city council or its designated committee shall consider
whether the granting of a variance would be detrimental to the public health,
safety or welfare, whether the subject property is characterized by unique
conditions, whether the applicant will suffer particular hardship as compared
to mere inconvenience if the strict letter of this chapter is carried out, and
any other considerations that the city council or its designated committee
considers relevant. After such hearing, the city council or its designated
committee shall act by simple majority vote, may require such conditions as the
council or its committee believes will substantially secure the objectives of
this chapter, and shall reduce its decision to writing. The city clerk shall
deliver a copy of the decision to the applicant. (Ord. 5398, 4-24-2017)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Streets, Sidewalks And Public Ways   1
Sidewalk Construction, Inspections And Repair   2
Inspection And Repair   2A
Bus Stop Benches   2B
Excavations   3
Numbering Buildings   4
Vegetation   5
Tree Trimmers   5A
Weeds   5B
Vegetation On Public Ways   5C
Railroads   6
Municipal Library   7
Leisure, Cultural And Arts Services   8
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Administrative Authority
7-1-2: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
7-1-3: Protection From Obstructions And Excavations
7-1-4: Curb Cuts
7-1-5: Street Signs
7-1-6: Property Owners To Maintain Rights Of Way
7-1-7: Regulation Of Roadside Memorials
7-1-1: ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY:
The public works director and city engineer, as appointed by the mayor and city
council in accordance with the prescribed policies and ordinances of the city,
or their designees, shall be empowered and authorized to enforce the provisions
of this code that pertain to streets and sidewalks. It shall be the duty of the
public works director to consult with and follow the direction and advice of
the mayor and city council and follow the policies of the city to maintain all
streets, alleys and highways within the city, as well as to perform other
duties as assigned. (Ord. 3605, 11-28-1988)
7-1-2: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Coasting:
      1.   Toy Vehicles: No person shall coast down, in or upon the streets in
the city upon or in any wagon, tricycle, roller skates or any other non-motor
propelled devices, other than bicycles, except in the manner and under and upon
the conditions set out in subsection A3 of this section.
      2.   Motor Vehicles On Sidewalks: No person shall coast down, in or upon
the public sidewalks in the city upon or in a motor propelled vehicle of any
kind.
      3.   Play Streets; Exceptions: No person shall coast down, in or upon the
streets or public sidewalks in the city upon or in any sled, coaster wagon or
scooter, except that coasting with sleds, coaster wagons or scooters shall be
permitted on certain streets so designated and closed by the police department,
and the police department shall specify and designate such street or streets
following a conference and agreement with the leisure services department, and
all such coasting so permitted shall be under the supervision of the leisure
services department. All coasting may be thereafter prohibited and the streets
closed to coasting by the police department, if, in the opinion of the police
department or the captain of traffic thereof, that the coasting constitutes a
nuisance or hazard.
   B.   Snow And Ice Removal:
      1.   Transfer Of Snow And Ice From Private Property: No person shall
transfer or cause to be transferred any snow or ice from private property onto
public property in the city.
      2.   Removal From Sidewalks: It shall be the responsibility of the
abutting property owner(s) to remove accumulations of two inches (2") or more
of snow and ice from sidewalks as follows:
         a.   Within twenty-four (24) hours in a three (3) block radius of
schools and hospitals.
         b.   Within forty-eight (48) hours in all other areas of the city
except for the Downtown Business District.
         c.   If additional snow events occur, the time frame commencing from
the original snowfall will not reset.
         d.   Removal Not Reasonable: In the event that snow or ice cannot be
reasonably removed, the owner shall put on the sidewalk, sand or other abrasive
material in such an amount and manner to make foot traffic reasonably safe. The
owner will maintain that condition until the weather permits the removal of the
snow or ice.
      3.   Downtown Business District - Removal from Sidewalks: It shall be the
responsibility of the abutting business and/or owner(s) of property located in
the Downtown Business District, which is the area bounded by Franklin Street,
6th Street, Washington Street, and 1st Street, to remove accumulations of two
inches (2") or more of snow and ice from sidewalks, as follows:
         a.   Within twenty-four (24) hours.
         b.   The use of salt, abrasive material, or a combination thereof must
be used to make foot traffic reasonably safe.
         c.   If additional snow events occur, the time frame commencing from
the original snowfall will not reset.
         d.   Sidewalks must be cleared the entire length and width of the
property.
         e.   Snow must be cleared from the building to two feet past the curb
and placed in the parking area, not in the traveled portion of the roadway, for
removal by city crews.
   C.   Injurious Materials:
      1.   No person shall throw or deposit upon any street, alley or sidewalk
in the city, any glass, glass bottles, nails, tacks, wire, cans or any other
substance likely to injure any person, animal or tires, or other part of a
vehicle, using the street, alley or sidewalk.
      2.   Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
street, alley or sidewalk of the city, any destructive or injurious material,
shall immediately remove the material, or cause it to be removed.
      3.   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a street shall
remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the street from the
vehicle.
   D.   Public Meetings On Public Ways: It shall be unlawful for any person to
hold a public meeting of any character or description upon any street, alley or
avenue of the city, or in any public park thereof, without permission, or for
any persons to congregate about or upon any street, avenue or alley of the city
so as to obstruct the highways of the city, except that public meetings may be
held on the streets of the city and in the public parks by written permission
granted by the mayor, which permit shall designate the character of the
meeting, the place it is to be held, and under whose charge, but no such
meeting shall be held in a manner or way calculated to obstruct or interfere
with public travel on highways of the city, and any person violating any
provision hereof shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
   E.   Dropping Petroleum On Pavement: No person shall allow any gasoline,
kerosene or oil of any character to be deposited upon any pavement, or to drip
from any vehicle, tank, or vessel upon any pavement within the city.
   F.   Rubbish On Pavement: No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited
any dirt, ashes, or rubbish of any kind or character on any pavement within the
city.
   G.   Conducting Roof And Surface Water Onto Public Ways: It shall be
unlawful for any person to so construct drainage pipes from the roofs of
abutting property or otherwise permit in any way the surface water or water
from the roofs of buildings erected on abutting property to flow upon the
sidewalk or into the street.
   H.   Fishing From Certain Bridges: No person shall fish off the Park Avenue
Bridge, the First Street Bridge, the Fourth Street Bridge, the Fifth Street
Bridge or the Eleventh Street Bridge in the city, and any person violating the
provisions of this subsection shall be guilty of an offense.
   I.   Fires On Paved Streets: No person shall burn any rubbish or build any
fire upon any paved street in the city.
   J.   Operation Of Vehicles Which Damage Streets: No person shall move or
cause to be moved any vehicle over the streets or bridges of the city when the
vehicle is so constructed that the pavement, oiled street or bridge shall be
injured by its use thereon. (Rev. Ord., Comp. 1941: 1173, p. S-2; amd. 1185, p.
S-6; 1187, p. S-8; 1189, p. S-10; 1530, p. S-30; 1633, p. G-7; 1913, p. S-12a;
1914, p. C-2; 1979, p. F-12; Ord. 3626, 3-13-1989; Ord. 3649, 6-5-1989; Ord.
5108, 3-26-2012; Ord. 5735, 11-6-2023)
7-1-3: PROTECTION FROM OBSTRUCTIONS AND EXCAVATIONS 1 :
Any person who places any obstruction in any public street, alley or avenue in
the city, whether by placing building material, leaving vehicles loaded or
unloaded, or any thing which amounts to an obstruction, or any object dangerous
to public travel, or takes up any sidewalk, or makes any excavation in any
public street, alley or avenue, whether with or without a permit from the
proper authorities, shall properly guard the obstruction or excavation, by
placing a suitable barrier around it, and, in every case, at night or between
sunset and sunrise, shall place at each end and at the outer limits of the
obstruction or excavation, suitable warning lights which shall be kept burning
between the hours of sunset and sunrise, on each day in which the obstruction
or excavation remains in any street, alley or avenue, and all building permits
shall require such lighting. Any person violating any provision hereof shall be
deemed guilty of an offense, and shall be liable to any person injured by
reason of the improperly guarded obstruction, and shall be liable to the city
for any damages sustained by it or any judgment rendered against it by reason
of the same. (Rev. Ord. 1190, Comp. 1941, p. S-11)
 
Notes
  1. See also sections
1 7-2A-6 and
  7-3-10 of this title.
7-1-4: CURB CUTS:
   A.   No driveway shall be constructed or used across any street curbing,
parking or sidewalk in the city, nor shall any access be provided from private
property onto any minor or major arterial as identified in the adopted
transportation and/or street plan for the city without first obtaining a permit
from the city engineer; the application for the permit shall be filed, in
writing, with the city engineer, who shall approve or disapprove the permit.
   B.   The recommendation of the city engineer shall be based upon one or more
of the following criteria:
      1.   In the case of existing lots of record platted on or before the
effective date of this section, curb cuts and/or access shall not be provided
onto any minor or major arterial, or onto any street for which access has been
restricted during the review of the final plat and deed of dedication by the
Planning, Programming and Zoning Commission and the City Council.
      2.   In the case of double frontage lots, reversed frontage lots or
corner lots, as defined in the City zoning ordinance, access shall be allowed
onto only one street in conformance with subsection B1 of this section. Access
from double frontage lots, corner lots or reversed frontage lots which front
onto major or minor arterials and a local street shall be limited to the street
with the least vehicular traffic. The City Engineer may waive this provision in
the event that the lot fronts onto one or more one-way street(s).
      3.   In cases where a lot fronts on two (2) streets, neither of which is
minor or major arterial, the City Engineer shall determine where access will be
allowed based upon an analysis of amount and speed of traffic on both streets.
   C.   Upon a permit being issued by the City Engineer to make a curb cut, no
driveway shall be constructed except according to plans and specifications
approved by the City Engineer.
   D.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect driveways
constructed or in use on or before the effective date of this section.
   E.   Any driveway constructed or used in violation of any of the terms of
this section shall be deemed a nuisance, and the City shall have the power to
order its abatement; and any person violating any of the provisions of this
section shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
   F.   All new driveway applications and driveway repair applications shall be
accompanied by a permit fee in an amount set by resolution of the City Council
and collected by the City Engineer's Office. Work performed by the City shall
not require a permit fee.
   G.   Any applicant who is aggrieved by the action of the City Engineer may
appeal the decision to the City Council; however, the City Council shall not
make a decision until a report regarding the request is received from the
Planning, Programming and Zoning Commission. The appeal must be made in writing
to the Mayor and City Council within seven (7) days of the denial of the
permit. The report from the Planning, Programming and Zoning Commission shall
be submitted to the City Council within fourteen (14) days of notice of the
appeal.
   H.   Any person constructing driveways and/or curb cuts within the City must
first file a right-of-way construction bond with the City Clerk in the sum of
fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00). This subsection does not apply to City
employees working in an official capacity, Waterloo water works, City
contracts, or City franchise agreements. The application for such construction
must be approved by the City Council and conditioned upon the fulfillment of
the following:
      1.   Faithful performance of all duties and regulations required by this
chapter;
      2.   Faithful performance of every curb cut specification on file in the
City Engineer's Office, and/or any provision of this Code or other City
ordinance regulating the construction, reconstruction or repair of curb cuts
within the City;
      3.   Prompt payment to the City of any sums that may become due for any
reason or under this chapter;
      4.   Prompt payment of all fines imposed upon said person for a violation
of this chapter, which violations occur during the life of the bond; and
      5.   Upon indemnifying and keeping the City harmless from any liability
arising from said person's constructing or reconstructing curb cuts within the
City. (Rev. Ord. 113, Comp. 1941, p. C-4; amd. Ord. 2878, 4-18-1977; Ord. 3058,
10-15-1979; Ord. 3774, 3-11-1991; Ord. 3777, 3-25-1991; Ord. 5386, 2-6-2017)
7-1-5: STREET SIGNS:
The City shall pay for and install all street signs on public and private
streets located within the City, when such street sign is ordered by the City
Council or the Street Department. This section shall also include private
street signs in mobile home parks. (Ord. 2844, 9-27-1976)
7-1-6: PROPERTY OWNERS TO MAINTAIN RIGHTS-OF-WAY:
The abutting property owner shall be required to maintain all public rights-of-
way between the property line and the edge of roadway or curb line upon the
public streets. This shall include, but not be limited to, sidewalk maintenance
and repair, keeping the ground at a level grade with the street, keeping the
area free of holes, fences, litter, debris, all loose materials and all other
obstructions, except the abutting property owner is not required to remove
diseased trees or dead wood. The abutting property owner may be liable for
damages caused by failure to maintain the sidewalk and right-of-way. (Ord.
5405, 6-26-2017)
7-1-7: REGULATION OF ROADSIDE MEMORIALS:
The placement of a roadside memorial is not allowed along a public sidewalk,
roadway or right-of-way owned by the City (or maintained by the City). Upon the
discovery of a roadside memorial, the City, through the Police Department or
Code enforcement can remove the roadside memorial, and store for up to a period
of sixty (60) days. If the roadside memorial has not been claimed after such
sixty (60) day period, the City may dispose of said roadside memorial
materials.
The definition of a "roadside memorial" for purposes of this chapter will be
the placement of materials along a public sidewalk, roadway or right-of-way
owned by the City (or maintained by the City), as a tribute to a person or
event. A violation of this section will be deemed as a Municipal infraction and
a citation may be issued to the person or persons who placed the roadside
memorial. (Ord. 5280, 5-4-2015)
CHAPTER 2
SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION, INSPECTIONS AND REPAIR
SECTION:
7-2-1: City Council To Order Construction
7-2-2: Public Improvement Procedures
7-2-3: Special Assessments For Improvements
7-2-4: Job Permits Required
7-2-5: Contractor’s Bond
7-2-6: Standards And Specifications
7-2-7: Violation; Penalty
7-2-1: CITY COUNCIL TO ORDER CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Permanent Or Temporary Sidewalks: The city council may, by resolution,
order the construction of permanent and/or temporary sidewalks upon any
streets, highways, avenues or public grounds in the city, but the construction
of permanent sidewalks shall not be made until the bed of the sidewalks shall
have been graded, so that when completed, the sidewalks shall be at the
established grade.
   B.   Vote Required For Improvement: Unless the owners of a majority of the
linear feet of property fronting on the proposed sidewalk improvement petition
the city council therefor, the proposed improvement shall not be made unless
three-fourths (3/4) of all the members of the city council shall, by vote,
order the making thereof. (Ord. 5688, 2-20-2023)
7-2-2: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT PROCEDURES:
The procedure for the construction of the public improvements in the nature of
the construction of new public sidewalks, whether permanent or temporary, shall
be governed by any and all provisions of the Iowa Code, then in existence, with
regard to notice for hearing, publication of notice, notice of assessments and
any other relevant statutory rules and regulations. (Ord. 5688, 2-20-2023)
7-2-3: SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS FOR IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Payments: Any assessment that exceeds five hundred dollars ($500.00)
may be paid in installments as set by the city council, not exceeding eleven
(11), in the same manner as for special assessments under Iowa Code chapter
384, division IV and at an interest rate of four percent (4), in accordance
with Iowa Code Section 384.60 and Chapter 74A.
   B.   Certification Of Special Assessments To County Treasurer: Upon making
the special assessment pursuant to this chapter, it shall be certified to the
county treasurer and shall be placed on the tax list as is provided by law.
(Ord. 5688, 2-20-2023)
7-2-4: JOB PERMITS REQUIRED:
   A.   No person, except the public works director or the city engineer, while
acting in their official capacity, or a contractor in performing the necessary
work on a contract with the city, shall construct or cause to be constructed
any concrete sidewalk in any public street, avenue, alley or highway within the
city except such walks as are required to connect residences or other buildings
with the city sidewalks, curbs or street roadways, without first obtaining a
permit therefor, signed by the city engineer. The permit shall describe the
location of the work and state the time in which it is to be done. If an
extension of time is required, the permittee shall present the permit to the
city engineer for an extension of the completion date, and no extension of time
shall be valid unless signed by the city engineer.
   B.   All permits issued pursuant to subsection A of this section must be
kept at the place of construction for which they were issued during the time
when the work is being done and exhibited when called for by the city official
having the authority to examine the permit(s).
   C.   Sidewalk improvement permit fees shall be set by resolution of the city
council and be collected by the office of the city engineer. Work performed by
the city shall not require a permit fee. (Ord. 5688, 2-20-2023)
7-2-5: CONTRACTOR'S BOND:
Any person constructing sidewalks within the city must first file a right of
way construction bond with the city clerk in the sum of twenty thousand dollars
($20,000.00), effective March 1, 2023. The application for such construction
must be approved by the city council and conditioned upon the fulfillment of
the following:
   A.   Faithful performance of all duties and regulations required by this
chapter;
   B.   Faithful performance of every driveway and sidewalk specification on
file in the city engineer's office, and/or any provision of this code or other
city ordinance regulating the construction, reconstruction or repair of
sidewalks within the city;
   C.   Prompt payment to the city of any sums that may become due for any
reason or under this chapter;
   D.   Prompt payment of all fines imposed upon said person for a violation of
this chapter, which violations occur during the life of the bond; and
   E.   Upon indemnifying and keeping the city harmless from any liability
arising from said person's constructing or reconstructing sidewalks within the
city. (Ord. 5688, 2-20-2023)
7-2-6: STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
Standards and specifications for concrete sidewalks shall be prescribed from
time to time by the city council, and shall be on file in the office of the
city engineer; conformance with such standards and specifications is required,
and failure to comply shall be grounds for revocation of the permit issued
pursuant to this chapter to construct a sidewalk. (Ord. 5688, 2-20-2023)
7-2-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of an offense, and shall be liable for all damage sustained by the city
or by any person. Failure to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be deemed a municipal infraction and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished in accordance with subsection
1-3-2C of this code.
   B.   In the case of a construction specification of this chapter not being
complied with, the sidewalk contractor shall be given written notice by the
city engineer, or designee, stating the specifications not complied with and
the contractor shall cause the work to comply with such specifications within
fifteen (15) days of the mailing of the notice. If the contractor fails to
comply with the notice, the bonding company shall be notified by regular mail
of such failure to comply.
   C.   Any person who shall have violated the provisions of this chapter shall
be refused any further permit required by this chapter until that person has
complied with all the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 5688, 2-20-2023)
ARTICLE A. INSPECTION AND REPAIR
SECTION:
7-2A-1: Definitions
7-2A-2: Sidewalk Specifications
7-2A-3: Permits
7-2A-4: Inspections
7-2A-5: Improvements And Repairs
7-2A-6: Barricades And Warning Lights
7-2A-7: Cost Of Improvements; Assessments
7-2A-8: Vacation Of Sidewalks
7-2A-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following words have the following meanings:
 
CITY          The city engineer or personnel designated by the city engineer to perform the
ENGINEER:     duties prescribed for the engineer by this article.
              Any public sidewalk exhibiting one or more of the following characteristics:
              A.   Vertical separations equal to three-quarters inch (3/4") or more;
              B.   Horizontal separations equal to three-quarters inch (3/4") or more;
              C.   Spalling or surface deterioration over fifty percent (50%) of the surface of
              a single square of the sidewalk and one or more half-inch (1/2") depressions;
              D.   A single square of sidewalk cracked in such a manner causing three (3) or
              more pieces with one or more loose pieces;
              E.   A sidewalk that is sloped or tilted creating water pockets, greater than ½
DEFECTIVE     the width of the sidewalk, measured at any one point;
SIDEWALK:     F.   A change from design or construction grade equal to or greater than two
              inches (2") in a ten foot (10') long area or less;
              G.   Holes and/or depressions greater than one-half inch (1/2") deep and one and
              one-half inches (11/2") or more in any horizontal dimensions; Holes to the full
              depth of the sidewalk shall be repaired by removal and replacement of the full
              panel from existing joint to existing joint.
              H.   Vertical or horizontal separations equal to three-fourths inch (3/4") or
              more where sidewalk abuts the curb, or any other fixture or structure and the
              separation is deemed unsafe;
              I.   Any other defects deemed unsafe by the City Engineer.
              The person owning the fee title or the contract purchaser for purposes of
OWNER:        notification required herein. For all other purposes, "owner" shall include the
              lessee, if any.
SIDEWALK      The reconstruction, repair, replacement or removal of a public sidewalk or the
IMPROVEMENTS: excavating, filling or depositing of material in the public right of way in
              connection therewith.
              Sidewalk repairs shall be by removal and replacement of full sidewalk panels from
              existing joint to existing joint for all defect types except surface depressions
              with an area of eighteen (18) square inches or less, which qualify for repair by
SIDEWALK      patching. No sidewalk panel shall have a patched area exceeding twenty percent
REPAIRS:      (20%) of the panel's total area. Sidewalk panels exceeding twenty percent (20%)
              of patched surface area shall be removed and replaced from existing joint to
              existing joint. A list of approved patching materials shall be on file in the
              city engineer's office. (Ord. 5688, 2-20-2023)
 
7-2A-2: SIDEWALK SPECIFICATIONS:
All sidewalk improvements on public property, whether performed by the owner of
the abutting property or by the city, shall be performed under the supervision
and inspection of the city engineer or designee and in accordance with the
plans and specifications prepared by the city engineer's office and approved by
the city council. No permanent sidewalk improvements shall be performed until
the bed for the same shall have been graded so that when completed such
sidewalk shall be at the location and grade established by the city engineer or
designee. (Ord. 5688, 2-20-2023)
7-2A-3: PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall make any sidewalk improvements whether
ordered by the city council or not, unless such person obtains a permit from
the city engineer and agrees that, in making the sidewalk improvements,
compliance will be made with the ordinances of this city and with the
specifications for the sidewalks as prepared by the city engineer and approved
by the city council, and that the work shall be done under the direction and
supervision of the city engineer and subject to the approval of the city
engineer or designee.
   B.   Bonds: A bond shall be required for all repairs except repairs made by
patching as allowed under the definition of "sidewalk repairs" in section
7-2A-1 of this article. The bond shall be filed in the proper amount and the
owner shall also agree to hold the city free from all liability for damages on
account of injuries received by anyone through the negligence of such person or
agents thereof in making the sidewalk improvements, or by reason of failure to
properly guard the premises.
   C.   Filing, Term Of Permits: All permits issued shall be filed and
preserved in the office of the city engineer. Before granting any permit to
make sidewalk improvements, the city engineer shall determine the
appropriateness of the same and shall state in all permits issued when the
sidewalk work is to be completed.
   D.   Extension Of Permit: The time of completion for the sidewalk
improvements may be extended by the city engineer when in his judgment the
extension is deemed necessary. The city engineer may withhold the issuance of
any permit for any sidewalk improvements for a sufficient period to determine
the necessity for the proposed improvements or if weather conditions will
adversely affect the sidewalk improvements.
   E.   Permit Fees: Sidewalk permit fees shall be set by resolution of the
city council and collected by the city engineer's office. Work performed by the
city shall not require a permit fee.
   F.   Failure To Obtain Permit: Whenever any sidewalk improvements are not
completed in conformance to the provisions of this article, i.e., not in
compliance with the current sidewalk standard specifications, or without a
permit, the city engineer shall serve notice upon the property owner and/or the
contractor doing such work of the nonconformance. If construction work is
underway without a permit, the notice shall order the work to cease until a
permit is obtained, and a fee of three (3) times the permit cost in addition to
the cost of the original permit is paid. If the sidewalk improvement underway
with a permit is not in conformance with the current sidewalk specifications,
all work must be corrected to comply with the current specifications. In the
event that the sidewalk work has been completed without obtaining a permit, a
permit shall be immediately obtained, and a fee of three (3) times the permit
cost in addition to the cost of the original permit is paid, and any
corrections needed shall be completed within five (5) days after receipt of the
permit. Any person who shall have violated the provisions of this chapter shall
be refused any further permits required by this chapter until he has complied
with all of the provisions of this chapter. Failure to comply with this notice
shall result in the completion of the work being done by the office of the city
engineer with the costs being assessed to the property owner as provided in
this article. (Ord. 5688, 2-20-2023)
7-2A-4: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Time Of Inspections: The office of the city engineer, its employees, or
designees shall be responsible for inspecting the public sidewalks on a twelve
(12) year cycle within the city or on a complaint basis. These inspections
shall be made to determine if any of the public sidewalks within the city are
defective as previously defined.
   B.   Inspection And Approval: The city engineer, or a designee, shall
inspect the work, and may order the corrections if the work does not meet
specifications. (Ord. 5688, 2-20-2023)
7-2A-5: IMPROVEMENTS AND REPAIRS:
   A.   Sidewalk Improvements Ordered: The city engineer may order the
reconstruction, repair or replacement of permanent sidewalks upon any public
right of way. Notice of this order shall be sent to the owner by regular mail.
This notice shall include the fact that a hearing shall be held by the city
council within thirty (30) days from the date of sending of the notice. The
notice shall also contain information regarding the estimated costs of
reconstruction, repair or replacement, as estimated by the office of the city
engineer.
   B.   Defective Sidewalks Repaired: It shall be the duty of the abutting
property owner at any time, or within forty five (45) days from the date of
notice from the city, to repair, replace or reconstruct all broken or defective
sidewalks in the public right of way abutting said property. If, after the
expiration of the forty five (45) days, as provided in the notice, the required
work has not been done or is not in the process of completion, the city
engineer shall proceed to repair, replace or reconstruct the sidewalk. The
total costs, including, but not limited to, engineering, inspection,
construction and administrative costs, shall be assessed to the property as
taxes or special assessments as provided hereinafter. (Ord. 5688, 2-20-2023)
7-2A-6: BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS 1 :
Proper warning lights and barricades shall be placed to protect persons from
materials, equipment and dangerous conditions. Placement and maintenance of
adequate warnings is the responsibility of the constructor, or the person
conducting the work. (Ord. 5688, 2-20-2023)
 
Notes
     See also sections
1 7-1-3 and
  7-3-10 of this title.
7-2A-7: COST OF IMPROVEMENTS; ASSESSMENTS:
   A.   Hearing On Estimated Costs: The city council shall hold a hearing
within thirty (30) days from the date of the sending of the notice, as
aforementioned, wherein, at the time and place designated in the notice, the
city council shall consider the estimated costs of reconstruction, repair or
replacement which may be assessed against the property owners and any errors,
irregularities or inequalities in the proposed reconstruction, repair or
replacement. Affected property owners shall have the right to object to the
proposed costs.
   B.   Notice Of Assessment For Repair Costs: When the city engineer submits
an assessment for sidewalk improvements or repair, the city clerk shall send a
notice of such facts to the owner of the abutting property. The notice shall be
sent by regular mail to the last known address of the owner. The notice shall
contain a statement of the work performed, the total costs of the work that is
being assessed, a description of the property affected, and the fact that the
person may pay the amount assessed by a certain date without interest or
penalty. The notice shall also indicate that the person may object to such
assessment, on account of errors, irregularities or inequalities, and give the
place and time at which the city council will hear such objections. The time
set for hearing shall be within thirty (30) days after the service or mailing
of the notice.
   C.   Hearing And Assessment: At the time and place designated in the notice,
the city council shall consider all objections to the assessment, correct all
errors or omissions and adopt a corrected list of the amounts to be assessed
against the property.
   D.   Billing, Certification To County: Thirty (30) days after the decision
of the city council of the assessment, the city clerk shall certify any unpaid
amounts to the Black Hawk County treasurer. The unpaid assessments shall be
collected by the county treasurer in the same manner as special assessments.
The following schedule shall control the method wherein the property owner
shall be required to pay any unpaid portion of the total costs of the repair of
the sidewalk:
 
$0.00 to $500.00       1 year
$500.01 to $1,000.00   3 years
$1,000.01 to $1,500.00 5 years
$1,500.01 to $2,500.00 7 years
$2,500.01 to $3,500.00 9 years
$3,500.01 and over     11 years
 
Such assessments shall be paid in the same manner as for special assessments
under Iowa Code Chapter 384, division IV and at an interest rate of four
percent (4), in accordance with Iowa Code Section 384.60 and Chapter 74A.No
interest shall be charged for such assessments, or parts thereof, if paid
within thirty (30) days from the date of the city council determination on the
final amounts of the assessment. (Ord. 5688, 2-20-2023)
7-2A-8: VACATION OF SIDEWALKS:
A sidewalk may be vacated by the owner of the property by making a request to
the planning, programming and zoning commission. The city engineer, and/or his
designee, will review the request and forward it, along with his
recommendation, to the planning, programming and zoning commission. The
planning, programming and zoning commission will review the vacation request at
its regular monthly meeting. The commission's recommendation will be forwarded
to the city council for its consideration at its next regular meeting. (Ord.
5688, 2-20-2023)
ARTICLE B. BUS STOP BENCHES
SECTION:
7-2B-1: Purpose; Sunset
7-2B-2: Authority To Install
7-2B-3: Location Of Benches
7-2B-4: Permits
7-2B-5: Bus Stop Bench Fees
7-2B-6: Conditions Of Permit
7-2B-7: Specifications
7-2B-8: Enforcement
7-2B-9: Replacement By City Bench
7-2B-1: PURPOSE; SUNSET:
It has been determined by the city council that there exists a need for the
placement of bus stop benches at designated locations throughout the city.
Therefore, this article is created to assist the public in the use of the
metropolitan bus system by providing, subject to the regulations of the city
council, bus stop benches for the use of the public. Unless terminated sooner
by resolution adopted by the city council, this article shall cease to be
effective as of October 31, 2019, and all permits issued hereunder shall
terminate as of said date. (Ord. 5383, 1-23-2017)
7-2B-2: AUTHORITY TO INSTALL:
It is hereby made lawful for persons to install and maintain public bus benches
and to place advertising matter and signs upon such benches subject to the
limitations and qualifications of this article. Advertising is a necessary
means for the funding of these public service benches; thus, it shall be
allowed in all zoning classifications except in front of any one- or two-family
residence located in any zoning classification, provided that any bus bench
installed by the city of Waterloo shall not be subject to said limitation.
(Ord. 5383, 1-23-2017)
7-2B-3: LOCATION OF BENCHES:
The placement of bus stop benches shall be limited to locations designated as
bus stops by metropolitan transit authority (MET). These designated bus stops
may vary in number and location from time to time. In addition, bus stop
benches other than benches installed by the city of Waterloo shall conform to
the following regulations:
   A.   The location of all bus stop benches shall be reviewed by the planning
and development department or the city engineering department. No new locations
shall be allowed under the current bus bench program.
   B.   Reserved.
   C.   Bus stop benches shall be placed on public property parallel to streets
along MET designated bus routes and shall further be limited to areas where
there is a minimum of six feet (6') from curb or edge of the roadway to front
of bench.
   D.   The city engineering department and planning department shall have the
right to periodically inspect all bus stop benches for maintenance, safety,
site location and compliance with this article.
   E.   Bus stop benches shall be placed no closer than three (3) blocks or
nine hundred feet (900'), whichever is more restrictive, from any other bus
stop bench along any individual MET designated bus route. (Ord. 5383, 1-23-
2017)
7-2B-4: PERMITS:
   A.   Application For Permit: No sign permit or bus stop bench permit under
this article shall be issued after January 2, 2017, to a person not already a
permittee. After said date, the city council may choose at any time by
resolution to suspend or discontinue the issuance of renewal permits.
   B.   Permit Required To Install And Maintain: No bus stop bench shall be
installed or maintained unless a permit has been obtained from the city
building official, who has vested authority to issue these permits. (Ord. 5383,
1-23-2017)
7-2B-5: BUS STOP BENCH FEES:
   A.   Bench Fees: The annual nonrefundable fee shall be twenty five dollars
($25.00) for each new location application form. A nonrefundable fee of seven
dollars fifty cents ($7.50) shall accompany each relocation request. The annual
fees are assessed for each individual bus stop bench and twelve dollars fifty
cents ($12.50) shall be due on April 1 every year and twelve dollars fifty
cents ($12.50) shall be due on October 1 every year. If the city requires the
permittee to remove or relocate a bus stop bench as provided in section
 7-2B-9 of this article, the annual fee shall be refunded on a monthly pro rata
basis for the period from the date on which such bench is removed until the
ensuing March 31. (Ord. 5383, 1-23-2017)
7-2B-6: CONDITIONS OF PERMIT:
   A.   Public Liability Insurance: The permittee shall file a certificate of
insurance with the city clerk, which shall name the city as an additional
insured and shall be maintained in the amount of three hundred thousand dollars
($300,000.00) for liability coverage. The permittee shall also enter into an
agreement with the city to indemnify the city for any and all liability which
may arise out of the use of the bus stop bench.
   B.   Permittee Responsibilities: By acceptance of a permit required by this
article, the permittee agrees to be bound by this article and to comply with
its requirements with respect to each bus stop bench until the bench is
removed, whether or not there is a current permit in effect for such bench. The
permittee further agrees to inspect each bus stop bench and to maintain the bus
stop benches in a safe, clean and sightly condition, suitable for use by
persons with disabilities from the point of departure from a public sidewalk to
a point of embarkation on or disembarkation from a MET bus at the edge of the
street. Within forty eight (48) hours following substantial completion of a
snow event that deposited two (2) or more inches of snow, or within seventy two
(72) hours if warranted by heavy snowfall conditions, the permittee shall
remove snow and ice from the bench, the cement pad on which it rests, and at
least four feet (4') in width of any additional area connecting a public
sidewalk (if one exists) with the bench and the bench with the edge of the
street, except with respect to those specific bus stop benches for which the
city has consented in writing to be responsible for removal of snow and ice.
The permittee shall maintain an accurate and up to date log showing dates and
times of snow removal and ice control activities at each location and shall
make the log available for inspection within forty eight (48) hours of request
by the city planner or designee. The permittee shall not permit grass or
vegetation to grow to a height exceeding four inches (4") in any area under the
bench, within a perimeter of at least four feet (4') surrounding the bench, and
at least four feet (4') in width of any additional area that is not cemented
and connects a public sidewalk (if one exists) with the bench and the bench
with the edge of the street.
   C.   Defend Litigation: A permittee shall defend, at his own expense, any
litigation arising from the installation, maintenance or removal of a bus stop
bench for which he holds a permit or a bus stop bench that he owns but for
which he does not hold a permit.
   D.   Bus Stop Bench Removal: The permittee shall remove each bus stop bench
in its entirety at the permittee's sole expense within fifteen (15) days after
the permit therefor expires, unless the city planner or designee approves an
extended period, not to exceed six (6) months, during which a particular bench
may remain in place but by the end of which such bench must be removed by the
permittee at its sole expense. Approval of an extended period for placement of
a bench shall be subject to the city's right to require removal pursuant to
section
7-2B-9 of this article, except that the period in which removal must occur
shall be seven (7) days instead of fifteen (15). If the permittee fails to
remove the bench, then the bench shall be deemed abandoned and the city may
remove it and retain or dispose of it in any manner according to the city's
sole discretion, and either charge the permittee with a municipal infraction
for each bench that permittee failed to remove or charge the permittee for the
city's reasonable costs incurred in removing and disposing of any such bench.
(Ord. 5383, 1-23-2017)
7-2B-7: SPECIFICATIONS:
All bus stop benches installed in accordance with this article, but not
including benches installed by the city of Waterloo, shall conform rigidly to
the following specifications upon installation and at all times thereafter
until removal of the bench:
   A.   The benches shall be not more than six feet (6') in length, not to
exceed forty two inches (42") in height and thirty inches (30") in depth.
   B.   The benches must be of heavy construction to weigh not less than four
hundred (400) pounds.
   C.   The end pieces and legs shall be constructed of concrete.
   D.   The back rests shall be constructed of hardwood or plywood not less
than three-fourths inch (3/4") in thickness or shall be constructed of plastic
overlay plywood not less than one- half inch (1/2") in thickness.
   E.   The seats shall be constructed of hardwood or plywood not less than one
and three-fourths inches (13/4") in thickness.
   F.   The several parts of the benches shall be joined by bolts of three-
eighths inch (3/8") or greater diameter. (Ord. 5383, 1-23-2017)
7-2B-8: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   If any bus stop bench is found to be noncompliant with this article or
if complaints are received by the city concerning the placement or maintenance
of any bus stop bench, the city shall deliver to the permittee by regular mail
at its last known address a written notice to bring the bench into compliance.
If the bus stop bench is not brought into compliance within seven (7) days
after the notice has been mailed, then the city may declare such bus stop bench
to be a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and as such to constitute
a nuisance which the city may summarily abate or remedy at the violator's
expense. Abatement may take the form of removal of a noncompliant bus stop
bench and assessment to the permittee of the city's reasonable costs incurred
in removing and/or disposing of any such bench.
   B.   If the permittee fails to comply with the maintenance standards
prescribed by subsection
7-2B-6B of this article, then the city may perform acts necessary to achieve
such compliance, without notice to permittee.
   C.   If the permittee violates any provision of this article it shall be
deemed guilty of a municipal infraction and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined as provided in section
1-3-2 of this code. Each separate bus stop bench with respect to which a
violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate
offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder. (Ord. 5383, 1-23-2017)
7-2B-9: REPLACEMENT BY CITY BENCH:
If the city desires to install a bench of its own at any bus stop bench
location occupied by a permittee during the term of the permit for such bench
or at any location in the vicinity of such bench, the city shall provide
fifteen (15) days' advance written notice by regular mail to the permittee at
its last known address, and the permittee shall remove said bench within
fifteen (15) days after the date of mailing of said notice. If the permittee
fails to remove the bench, then the bench shall be deemed abandoned and the
city may remove it, retain it or dispose of it in any manner according to the
city's sole discretion, and either charge the permittee with a municipal
infraction or charge the permittee for the city's reasonable costs incurred in
removing and disposing of the bench. The permittee will also be allowed to
relocate its bench to another location for which permittee already has a
permit, provided that the permittee removes the existing bench at such
alternate location. (Ord. 5383, 1-23-2017)
CHAPTER 3
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Public Improvements Amortization Period
7-3-2: Delegation Of Authority
7-3-3: Conformance Required
7-3-4: Permits
7-3-5: Backfilling Fees
7-3-6: Cutting And Patching New Pavement
7-3-7: Restoration Of Parkings
7-3-8: Excavation Procedures
7-3-9: Backfilling Requirements
7-3-10: Maintenance Of Barricades And Warning Lights
7-3-11: Liability Of Excavation Permittee
7-3-12: Payment Of Costs
7-3-13: Violation; Penalty
7-3-1: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS AMORTIZATION PERIOD:
   A.   The period of amortization for public improvement projects for opening,
establishing or grading streets, the construction of portland cement concrete
or asphalt concrete street improvements, storm sewers, sanitary sewers, water
mains, pedestrian underpasses and overpasses, sewage pumping stations, disposal
or treatment plants, drainage conduits, channels and levees, street lighting,
parking facilities, and appurtenant facilities, is hereby established as ten
(10) years, to be calculated commencing from the date of adoption by the city
council of the resolution accepting the completed public improvements.
   B.   The period of amortization, to be computed in the same manner as
established in subsection A of this section, is hereby established as ten (10)
years for sidewalks and three (3) years for the repair of street grading,
street surfacing with oil, gravel, oil and gravel or chloride, and ten (10)
years for the removal of diseased or dead trees.
   C.   In any instance where the city council determines that the useful life
of a public improvement should be for a different time period than hereinabove
established, the city council may so provide for such period by amendment
hereto, prescribing the appropriate amortization period as may be applicable to
these specific public improvements. (Ord. 2871, 2-28-1977; amd. Ord. 3626, 3-
13-1989; Ord. 3649, 6-5-1989)
7-3-2: DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY:
Whenever the term "city engineer", or "street commissioner" shall appear in
this chapter, it shall also mean and include the authorized representative of
that officer specified. (Rev. Ord. 1782, Comp. 1941, p. S-20)
7-3-3: CONFORMANCE REQUIRED:
All excavations made in the public streets, alleys, highways or public grounds
of the city shall be made according to the provisions of this chapter, unless
otherwise directed by the city council. (Rev. Ord. 1782, Comp. 1941, p. S-20)
7-3-4: PERMITS:
   A.   Required; Exceptions:
      1.   No person except the street commissioner or the city engineer, while
acting in their official capacity, or a contractor in performing the necessary
work on a contract with the city, shall make or cause to be made any excavation
in any street, avenue, alley or highway in the city for any purpose whatever,
except for the grading and landscaping of parkings, without first obtaining a
permit therefor signed by the city engineer.
      2.   All new street excavation permits shall be accompanied by a fee in
an amount set by resolution of the city council and collected by the city
engineer's office. Work performed by the city shall not require a permit fee.
   B.   Application For Permit: Any person desiring a permit required by this
chapter shall make application therefor to the city engineer on blanks to be
furnished by the city engineer, stating the name of the person desiring to make
the excavations; his place of residence; the act for which the permit is
desired; the time during which the work is to be done; the location of the cut
in the street; the dimensions of the cut; the house number; the lot and block
number; the name of the addition; and that the applicant agrees to comply with
all the requirements of this chapter, and to pay to the city, on demand, all
damages which it may sustain by reason of the act for which the permit is asked
not being performed according to the requirements of the permit and this
chapter; and to pay any person injured in person or property all damages which
it may sustain by reason of the act or acts for which the permit is sought, not
being performed according to the requirements of the permit and this chapter;
and to pay any person injured in person or property all damages which such
person may sustain by reason of negligence on the part of the applicant, or his
employees, agents or servants, and to indemnify and save harmless the city from
any damages resulting by reason of such person to whom the permit is to be
issued.
   C.   Contractor's Bond: Any person desiring to excavate or perform pavement
repairs within the city must first file a right of way construction bond with
the city clerk in the sum of fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00). This
subsection does not apply to city employees working in an official capacity,
Waterloo water works, city contracts, or city franchise agreements. The
application for excavation must be approved by the city council and conditioned
upon the fulfillment of the following:
      1.   Faithful performance of all duties and regulations required by this
chapter;
      2.   Faithful performance of every excavation specification on file in
the city engineer's office, and/or any provision of this code or other city
ordinance regulating excavation within the city;
      3.   Prompt payment to the city of any sums that may become due for any
reason or under this chapter;
      4.   Prompt payment of all fines imposed upon said person for a violation
of this chapter, which violations occur during the life of the bond; and
      5.   Upon indemnifying and keeping the city harmless from any liability
arising from said person's excavating within the city.
   D.   Release Of Property Owner: A permit required by this chapter for any
excavation in the pavement of any street, avenue, alley or highway in front or
abutting property not owned by the person employing the applicant for the
permit, shall be issued only when a release from the owner of the property is
filed with the application. In case the applicant is unable to secure the
release and the application is refused by the city engineer for this or any
other reason, the applicant shall have the right to petition the city council
therefor, and if approved by the city council, the city engineer shall issue
the permit in accordance with this chapter.
   E.   Term Of Permit; Extension Of Time: The time stated in the permit
application filed pursuant to this chapter during which the work is to be done,
shall be the same time the permit is valid or in force. Any person requiring an
extension of time to complete the work for which a permit was issued under this
chapter shall present the permit to the city engineer for an extension of the
completion date, and no extension of time shall be valid unless signed by the
city engineer.
   F.   Permits Kept At Job Site; Inspection: All permits issued pursuant to
this chapter must be kept at the place of excavation while the work is being
done, and exhibited when called for by the city official having the authority
to examine the permit. (Rev. Ord. 1782, Comp. 1941, p. S-20; amd. Ord. 2878, 4-
18-1977; Ord. 3777, 3-25-1991; Ord. 5386, 2-6-2017)
7-3-5: BACKFILLING FEES:
   A.   Minimum Charge; Special Circumstances For Backfilling:
      1.   When an application required by this chapter is filed for making an
excavation in any street, avenue, alley or highway, the city engineer shall
make an estimate of the cost of backfilling, compacting the backfill and
repairing the pavement, sidewalk or road surfacing, based on a schedule of
charges to be established from time to time by the city council, which schedule
shall be on file in the office of the city engineer.
      2.   In case the applicant for the permit has the proper mechanical
equipment for tamping backfills, and obtains written permission from the city
engineer, he may do his own backfilling and tamping, in which case the work
shall be done under the supervision of the city engineer and the applicant
shall protect the work with barricades and red lamps.
      3.   In the case of extensive improvements being made or proposed to be
made in newly opened or undeveloped streets, backfilling of excavations may be
made without compaction, if a petition is presented to the city council and the
city council grants the permission requested, in which case the work shall be
done by the applicant, according to the terms of the petition, and under the
supervision of the city engineer.
      4.   In the case of utilities, such as water mains, gas mains, telephone
and electric conduits and city sewers, being proposed to be constructed in rock
or gravel surfaced streets, oiled streets or unimproved streets, a permit may
be issued on the basis of the applicant therefor reimbursing the city for the
costs of restoring the street to a condition satisfactory to the street
commissioner, if a petition is presented to the city council, and the city
council grants the permission requested, in which case the work shall be done
by the applicant according to the terms of the petition, and under the
supervision of the street commissioner.
   B.   Refund Of Backfilling Fees: In case backfilling an excavation is less
than the amount estimated in the permit application filed pursuant to this
chapter, the difference shall be refunded or credited to the permittee, except
that in no case shall the charge for an excavation be less than for ten (10)
square feet of excavation. (Rev. Ord. 1782, Comp. 1941, p. S-20)
7-3-6: CUTTING AND PATCHING NEW PAVEMENT:
   A.   No paving within the city shall be cut for any purpose for two (2)
years after it has been laid, except on the express permission of the city
council in accordance with the provisions of this section; however, in the case
of a break in a main, if immediate action is imperative, permission to cut the
paving may be given by the city engineer.
   B.   Cutting and patching of pavement between two (2) and ten (10) years of
its laying shall be in accordance with the following requirements:
      1.   The selection and marking of the areas to be patched shall be done
by the city engineer or his authorized representative. Concrete to repair
patches shall be placed as soon as possible after cutting the pavement to be
patched.
      2.   The subgrade for the concrete patch shall be brought to a firm
unyielding surface by tamping. All soft, spongy or yielding spots and all
vegetable or other perishable matter shall be removed and the space refilled
with a suitable material compacted to a firm, uniform density.
      3.   The method of constructing and selecting the type of concrete patch
to be used shall be in accordance with the drawings of standard construction
details prepared by the office of the city engineer. The boundaries of concrete
to be removed shall be sawed with a concrete saw.
      4.   The concrete used for patching shall be mixed, placed and cured in
accordance with the "Specifications for Reinforced Concrete Paving" on file in
the office of the city engineer.
      5.   For patching reinforced concrete pavement, care is to be exercised
in removing the concrete to minimize damage to the reinforcing. New reinforcing
supplied to the patch shall supply the same amount of reinforcing as that
originally intended for the existing concrete pavement to be patched. New
reinforcing shall lap the existing reinforcing by at least six inches (6").
      6.   Charges for removal and replacement of paving which is to be
patched; charges for filling and compacting backfill in excavation; and charges
for the sawing of concrete with a concrete saw shall be made on the basis of a
schedule established by the city council and on file in the office of the city
clerk. (Rev. Ord. 2039, Comp. 1941, p. S-26)
7-3-7: RESTORATION OF PARKINGS:
   A.   Each person making an excavation or disturbance in the parking of any
street, avenue or highway in front of or abutting property not owned by the
person employing the permittee under this chapter, shall preserve and protect
all sod, trees and shrubbery, and shall restore the parking to a condition as
nearly equivalent to its original condition as is possible, and to the
satisfaction of the city engineer, and the permittee shall, upon notice by the
city engineer, make such restoration or repairs as ordered by the city
engineer, within five (5) days after the notice to do so, at any time within a
period of one year from the date the permit was issued, and in case the
permittee shall fail to make the ordered restoration or repair within such
time, the city may make the repair or restoration, without further notice, and
the permittee shall be liable to the city for the cost of the repair or
restoration.
   B.   Whenever any excavation is made in parkings, all excavated material,
except the sod, shall be deposited in the roadway. At the time of making and
compacting the backfill the street commissioner shall replace the sod, if it
has been properly excavated and preserved. (Rev. Ord. 1782, Comp. 1941, p. S-
20)
7-3-8: EXCAVATION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Size Of Excavation Not Increased; Exception: No person shall increase
the size of any excavation by opening it more than fifty percent (50%) of the
area provided for in the permit issued pursuant to this chapter, or to extend
the dimensions of the excavation to such extent that the street, avenue or
alley will be blockaded, without obtaining the permission therefor from the
city engineer.
   B.   Tunnelling: Tunnelling will be allowed only when permission is given by
the city engineer, except under curbs and gutters, or sidewalks not over five
feet four inches (5'4") in width, and whenever tunnelling is resorted to, it
shall be done with the minimum amount of excavation possible. The charge to be
made in estimating or figuring costs for tunnelling shall be twenty cents
($0.20) per square foot based on the trench width for the excavation for which
estimated or measured, except when the tunnel backfilling is done by the
permission and under the direction of the city engineer. In case any pavement
or sidewalk becomes unsupported, due to caving or any other cause, to the
extent that, in the opinion of the street commissioner, backfilling and
compacting cannot be made in a satisfactory manner, it shall be removed and
charged for according to the rates established by the city council for
backfilling.
   C.   Pushing Or Jacking Pipe Under Roadways: Pushing or jacking cast-iron
pipe service sewer under roadways will be permitted, providing the cast-iron
pipe is left uncovered at each end so that it can be readily ascertained that
no excavation was made by tunnelling. In case cast-iron pipe is pushed through
an existing service sewer, each end of the existing sewer shall be closed
against the cast-iron pipe with cement mortar.
   D.   Segregation Of Excavated Paving Materials: Any person excavating in
wood block or brick pavements, or in rock or gravel, or in surfaced roadways
shall pile such wood block, brick or gravel in a pile convenient for the city's
use, and separate from other excavated materials. (Rev. Ord. 1783, Comp. 1941,
p. S-20)
7-3-9: BACKFILLING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Notice To Commence: Immediately upon completion of the work for which
the excavation in any street, alley, avenue or highway has been made, the
person securing the permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall notify the
street commissioner that the excavation is ready to be backfilled, giving the
exact location of the cut. The street commissioner shall do all of the
backfilling and mechanically compact the backfill of all excavation for which
permits are issued, except those cases provided for in subsection 
7-2-3B of this title, and except that portion necessary to cover pipe to a
depth not exceeding one foot (1'). The street commissioner shall also make all
of the necessary repairs to pavements, sidewalks or surfaced roadways due to
excavations for which permits required by this chapter are issued, and shall
report the measurements of the excavation to the city engineer.
   B.   Replacement Of Unsuitable Backfill Materials: Whenever the street
commissioner shall find that the excavated materials from an excavation are
unsuitable, due to moisture or any other cause, the street commissioner shall
remove the unsuitable material and replace and compact the backfill with
suitable materials.
   C.   Backfilling Tight Sheathed Excavations; Use Of Sand: Whenever an
excavation made in paving is of such nature that tight sheathing is required,
the backfill shall be made with dry sand, as the sheathing is being removed,
and in no case shall any sheathing be pulled above the dry sand backfill before
the backfill is completed. The street department shall furnish and deliver the
dry sand and remove the excavated material and the person obtaining the permit
required by this chapter shall place the backfill and remove the sheathing,
under the supervision of the street commissioner. (Rev. Ord. 1783, Comp. 1941,
p. S-20)
7-3-10: MAINTENANCE OF BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS 1 :
The person obtaining the permit required by this chapter shall protect the
excavation with barricades and red lights from the time the work is started
until twenty four (24) hours after eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. of the day
following the serving of notice on the street commissioner to commence
backfilling, unless the street commissioner has started the work of backfilling
before that time. (Rev. Ord. 1783, Comp. 1941, p. S-20)
 
Notes
  1. See also sections
1 7-1-3 and
  7-2A-6 of this title.
7-3-11: LIABILITY OF EXCAVATION PERMITTEE:
   A.   Improper Preparation For Backfilling: Whenever an excavation reported
ready for backfilling is found by the street commissioner to have been
backfilled more than one foot (1') above the top of a pipe, the street
commissioner shall remove whatever part of said backfill he may deem necessary
to properly compact the backfill, in which case the person obtaining the permit
required by this chapter shall be liable to the city for the city's costs
incident to properly preparing the excavation for backfilling, and shall be
billed for the costs, in the manner provided in this chapter.
   B.   Premature Request Of City Backfilling Services: Whenever an excavation
is reported ready for backfilling at a certain time, and the street department
sends employees and equipment to the site, and the excavation is not ready for
backfilling, the person who obtained the permit required by this chapter shall
be liable to the city for the cost incident to making the unnecessary trip, and
shall be billed for costs in the manner provided in this chapter. (Rev. Ord.
1783, Comp. 1941, p. S-20)
7-3-12: PAYMENT OF COSTS:
   A.   Any person who shall have made an excavation in any street, alley or
highway within the city shall be billed for the costs of repairing the roadways
and pavements, and backfilling excavations, on the basis of the rates set up by
the city council and on file in the office of the city engineer, and from the
measurements of the street department. The bills shall be issued monthly on or
before the fifth day of the month following that in which the work was done,
and the amount of the bills shall be paid to the city clerk on or before the
fifteenth day of the month in which the bill was issued.
   B.   The unit prices for street repairs and backfilling, as established by
the city council, are for work which is paid for on or before the fifteenth day
of the month following that in which the work was done. The unit prices for
work not paid for on or before the fifteenth day of the month following shall
be ten percent (10%) more than the unit prices for work paid for on or before
the fifteenth day of the month in which the bill was issued.
   C.   Any person who shall have failed to pay any bill for street repair or
backfilling on or before the fifteenth day of the month in which the bill was
issued shall be refused any further permits required by this chapter until such
bill has been paid. (Rev. Ord. 1783, Comp. 1941, p. S-20)
7-3-13: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter, and any person excavating
in any of the streets of the city without first procuring a permit therefor, or
who shall excavate in the streets of the city without complying with the
conditions of this chapter shall be guilty of an offense, and shall be liable
for all damage sustained by the city and by any other person. Any person who
shall have violated the provisions of this chapter shall be refused any further
permits required by this chapter until he has complied with all of the
provisions of this chapter. (Rev. Ord. 1783, Comp. 1941, p. S-20)
CHAPTER 4
NUMBERING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Numbering Required
7-4-2: Numbering Plan
7-4-3: Numbering Plat Maintained
7-4-4: Failure To Number
7-4-1: NUMBERING REQUIRED:
   A.   Owner's Responsibility: Each person owning a house, dwelling unit or
building located on any public or private street or avenue of the city shall be
required to number or cause to be placed over the front entrance, or in some
place in public view, on each and every dwelling house, unit or building, or
place of business owned by him, or under his control, a number in accordance
with the plan of numbering established in this chapter. When a house, dwelling
unit or building is constructed to front on other than a public street or
avenue, the city, at its discretion, shall authorize the naming of a private
street for purposes of assigning the building number.
   B.   Conformity Of Numbering: When opposite blocks are of different lengths,
the numbers on short blocks shall run in conformity to the numbers on the
longer blocks opposite; and when blocks, fractional blocks or lots face upon or
against the head of any street, the numbers of such lots or blocks shall
continue to the further line of the street against which they face, and from
that point the numbering shall be in conformity with the block opposite; and
where a block is longer than the average length, the numbering shall proceed to
a point in said block opposite to the further line of the street opposite, and
then be continued in conformity with the opposite block.
   C.   Size, Materials Of Numbers: The figures used for numbering shall not be
less than three inches (3") in height, by two inches (2") in width, and shall
be legible and be made of metal or other substantial or durable material. (Rev.
Ord. 1163, Comp. 1941, p. N-1; amd. Ord. 2808, 4-5-1976)
7-4-2: NUMBERING PLAN:
   A.   East-West Streets:
      1.   Cedar River: For the purpose of numbering, the names of all streets
and avenues running easterly or westerly from the Cedar River shall have
prefixed to the name of the streets or avenues, the words "East" or "West", as
the case may be, according to the location of the same with reference to the
river.
      2.   Base Lines Established:
         a.   The numbers on all streets and avenues that intersect Water
Street shall commence with number 100 at Water Street, running northeasterly,
and the numbers on all streets and avenues between Water Street and the Cedar
River shall commence with number 99 and decrease going southwest.
         b.   The numbers on all streets and avenues that intersect Commercial
Street running southwest, shall commence at number 200 at Commercial Street,
and the numbers of the streets and avenues between Commercial Street and the
Cedar River, running to the river, shall commence with number 199, and decrease
going northeast, to the first street or avenue running parallel to the river,
from which street or avenue they shall commence with number 99 and decrease
going to the river.
   B.   Prefix "North" Used North Of Mullan Avenue: For the purpose of
numbering, all those parts of streets or avenues that cross Mullan Avenue,
extending north of Mullan Avenue, shall have prefixed the word "North" to the
names of those parts of the streets or avenues that extend north to Mullan
Avenue.
   C.   Numbering Of Blocks: Each block or fractional block fronting upon each
street or avenue shall have fifty (50) numbers, commencing with number 100 in
the first block, with the exceptions contained in this chapter, number 200 in
the second block, and so continue with consecutive hundreds. The even numbers
shall be placed on the right-hand side and the odd numbers on the left-hand
side, with reference to the Cedar River, on all streets and avenues running
easterly or westerly; and on all other streets and avenues the even numbers
shall be placed on the right-hand side, and the odd numbers on the left-hand
side, with reference to the point of commencing to number.
   D.   Commencement Of Numbering For Certain Streets: The numbers on Walnut
Street shall commence at Almond Street. The numbers on Utica Street and Oak
Avenue shall commence at the end nearest the Cedar River. The numbers on all
streets which intersect Mullan Avenue, Logan Avenue, Ankeny Street and Maple
Street shall commence at the named streets and avenues that intersect Walnut
Street, and Franklin Street, southeasterly of Eighth Street, and extend north
and east, shall commence at the named streets respectively; and the numbers on
all the streets that intersect the grounds of the Illinois Central Railway
Company north of the main railroad track of the company shall commence at the
railway grounds; and the numbers on all streets or avenues not herein specified
shall commence at the ends of the streets or avenues nearest to Fourth Street
or to the Cedar River.
   E.   Numbering Conforming With Fourth Street: It is hereby provided that on
all streets and avenues south of the tracks of the Illinois Central Railroad
which intersect or cross Fourth Street, the numbers shall commence and be so
arranged as to have uniformity in all the numbers on all the blocks fronting or
abutting on Fourth Street.
   F.   Numbering Determined By Frontage: Each street frontage of twenty feet
(20') shall constitute a lot for the purpose of numbering the buildings in the
city. Each building having more than twenty feet (20') of frontage shall be
numbered with the number or numbers to which the lot or lots are entitled upon
which the principal entrance or entrances are located. (Rev. Ord. 1163, Comp.
1941, p. N-1)
7-4-3: NUMBERING PLAT MAINTAINED:
It shall be the duty of the city engineer to prepare and keep on file in his
office a plat showing the streets and the numbers required by this chapter, and
whenever a plat is filed as an addition to the city, the city engineer shall
file a copy of the plat with the mayor showing the numbers as required by this
chapter. (Rev. Ord. 1163, Comp. 1941, p. N-1)
7-4-4: FAILURE TO NUMBER:
If any owner or person having under his control, any buildings required to be
numbered, shall fail or neglect to have the same numbered in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter, or who shall fail or neglect to maintain the
numbers, the property shall be numbered by the city and the expense taxed
against the property as a special assessment. (Rev. Ord. 1163, Comp. 1941, p.
N-1)
CHAPTER 5
VEGETATION
SECTION:
7-5-1: Definitions
7-5-2: Authority And Enforcement
7-5-3: Planting Trees And Shrubs On Public Property
7-5-4: Trimming, Care And Maintenance
7-5-5: Protection During Construction
7-5-6: Nuisances Prohibited
7-5-7: Prohibited Acts
7-5-8: Violation; Penalty
7-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise expressly stated or the context clearly indicates a different
intention, the following terms shall have the following meanings in this
chapter:
EXCESSIVE NUISANCE: Any property with three (3) or more calls for service
deemed a founded nuisance.
HAZARD: Any tree or shrub, which interferes with any sidewalk or the traveled
portion of any roadway or alley or with visibility at any intersection, traffic
control light or sign, or otherwise endangers life or property.
NUISANCE: Any tree or shrub or portion thereof which, due to death, disease,
manner of growth or any other factor, may cause or promote the spread of
insects or disease or may cause an annoyance to the general public.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind and their legal representatives.
PRIVATE PROPERTY: Includes all nonpublic property as defined herein.
PRIVATE PROPERTY OWNER: The contract purchaser if there is one of record,
otherwise the record holder of legal title as shown by the Waterloo city
assessor's records.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Includes any and all property held in the name of the city by
any of the departments, commissions or agencies within the city government and
any and all property managed by the city by agreement with other governmental
agencies or private persons.
STREET: The entire width between property lines of every public way of whatever
nature within the city when part thereof is open to the use of the public as a
matter of right, for the purpose of vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
TREES AND SHRUBS: Include all woody vegetation except where otherwise
indicated. (Ord. 5389, 2-20-2017)
7-5-2: AUTHORITY AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Leisure Services Commission; Forestry Division And City Forester:
      1.   The leisure services commission shall have charge, custody and
control of all trees and shrubs growing now or hereafter in any park, street or
public property in the city and shall have power to supervise, plant, remove,
care for and otherwise maintain such trees and shrubs.
      2.   The forestry division shall be supervised by the city forester who
shall be appointed by and be responsible to the leisure services director. The
city forester shall have the authority and primary responsibility to implement
the procedures of this chapter and supervise the general care of all trees and
shrubs under the jurisdiction of the leisure services commission as provided by
this chapter.
   B.   City Forester: The city forester shall:
      1.   Be authorized to organize, direct and regulate the planting,
maintenance, care and removal of any and all trees under the jurisdiction of
the leisure services commission. The city forester shall be authorized to
direct the removal of any tree or shrub, or portion thereof, whether diseased,
dead or healthy, if such tree is located on private property and is declared a
"nuisance" or "hazard" as defined in this chapter.
      2.   Be authorized to prepare specifications, requirements, guidelines
and policies pertaining to the planting, maintenance, care and removal of any
and all trees and shrubs covered by this chapter. After approval by the leisure
services commission, these documents will become known as the Waterloo tree and
shrub care guidelines. Said documents may be revised or amended at any time by
the leisure services commission.
      3.   Cause the provisions of this chapter and the Waterloo tree and shrub
care guidelines to be enforced.
      4.   At the direction of the leisure services commission, be authorized
to organize, direct and supervise the sale of any trees or shrubs under the
jurisdiction of the leisure services commission as provided by this chapter.
(Ord. 3341, 5-29-1984)
7-5-3: PLANTING TREES AND SHRUBS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   No person shall plant any tree or shrub in any park, street or public
property in the city without first notifying the city forester. The city
forester, upon receiving such notification shall inspect the proposed planting
site and determine the exact location, if any, for the tree or shrub to be
planted.
   B.   The planting of any tree or shrub in any street, park or public
property in the city shall conform to this code and the Waterloo tree and shrub
care guidelines.
   C.   In the event that any person shall plant a tree or shrub in conflict
with this chapter, the city forester may declare said tree a nuisance or hazard
and direct its immediate removal by the forestry division.
   D.   It shall be the responsibility of any person planting a tree or shrub
on any park, street or public property in the city to locate all buried
utilities. (Ord. 3341, 5-29-1984)
7-5-4: TRIMMING, CARE AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Public Property:
      1.   All trimming, maintenance, care, removal or other disturbance of any
tree or shrub in any park, street or public place of the city shall conform
with this code and the Waterloo tree and shrub care guidelines. Where any tree
or shrub is growing in conflict with this chapter or the Waterloo tree and
shrub care guidelines, the city forester shall direct appropriate actions to
eliminate the variance.
      2.   All trees or shrubs growing now or hereafter in the streets or
public property in the city shall be trimmed and pruned by the adjacent
property owner so that in no case shall the branches be less than eight feet
(8') from the sidewalk or traveled portion of the roadway or alley.
      3.   Any private or public utility company must obtain written permission
from the city forester to treat, trim, prune or remove any tree or shrub in any
street or public place of the city. Said work shall be limited to the actual
necessities of the utility company to maintain service. The city forester may,
if necessary, inspect and supervise the provisions of the permit.
   B.   Private Property:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any owner of any property in the city to
maintain, cause or permit any trees or shrubs under such circumstances that
said trees or shrubs are or may become a hazard.
      2.   All trees or shrubs growing now or hereafter on private property in
the city shall be kept trimmed and pruned by the property owner. In no case
shall the branches be less than eight feet (8') above the sidewalk or traveled
portion of the roadway or alley. (Ord. 3341, 5-29-1984)
7-5-5: PROTECTION DURING CONSTRUCTION:
During all building and construction operations, the contractor or builder
shall protect all trees and shrubs in the streets or public places of the city
by erecting suitable barriers or other protective methods as determined by the
city forester. If loss occurs, reimbursement shall be made to the city as
determined by the city forester. (Ord. 3341, 5-29-1984)
7-5-6: NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall maintain, cause or permit any tree or shrub to be
maintained in such a manner as to be considered a nuisance.
   B.   In the event that such a nuisance occurs, a written complaint,
describing said nuisance and signed by the complainant, must be filed with the
city forester.
   C.   Upon receipt of a complaint, a notice shall be issued to the owner of
the property describing the property and the nuisance, and such notice shall
request the abatement of the nuisance within fourteen (14) days of receipt of
the notice. The owner shall receive a signed copy of the complaint form.
   D.   In the event the owner of the property refuses to abate the nuisance
within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the notice, the complainant may charge
the property owner with a violation of this section by signing the appropriate
citation. (Ord. 3341, 5-29-1984)
7-5-7: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Abuse Of Trees And Shrubs:
      1.   No person shall damage any tree or shrub growing now or hereafter in
the streets or public property in the city by abuse or by impeding the free
passage of water and oxygen to the roots or by contaminating the surrounding
soil with any harmful substance.
      2.   A permit shall be obtained from the city forester for the attachment
of any rope, wire, nail, staple, electrical installation or other matter to
said trees and shrubs. In the event that such damage does occur, the city
forester shall direct the offending party to immediately, and at his own
expense, repair or replace the affected tree or shrub and/or to remove any and
all unauthorized attachments.
   B.   Sale Of Public Firewood: Firewood deposited for free distribution to
the public by the forestry division shall be for personal use only. No person
shall sell or trade said firewood for personal gain. (Ord. 3341, 5-29-1984)
7-5-8: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating or failing, refusing or neglecting to comply with any
provisions or requirements of any section or subsection of this chapter, in
addition to any other remedy, shall be guilty of a municipal infraction and
upon conviction thereof shall be punished in accordance with subsection
1-3-2C of this code. (Ord. 3341, 5-29-1984; amd. Ord. 4441, 10-16-2000)
ARTICLE A. TREE TRIMMERS
SECTION:
7-5A-1: License Required; Fee And Term
7-5A-2: Examination Of Applicants
7-5A-3: Conditions Of License
7-5A-4: Job Permits Required
7-5A-5: Removal Of Trimmings
7-5A-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE AND TERM:
   A.   License Required: No person shall engage in the business of removing,
cutting or trimming of trees in the city without first obtaining the required
license. The license shall allow the removing, cutting and trimming of trees on
both private and public property. The license shall be issued upon payment of
an annual license fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) and upon proof of certificate
of insurance and coverage for workers' compensation. License fees shall be due
and payable on April 1 of each year.
   B.   Exceptions: The above shall not apply to the following cases:
      1.   Any governmental body or official representative of such while in
pursuit of official duties;
      2.   Persons trimming trees on their private property;
      3.   Any person performing labor or services on or in connection with
trees at the direction and/or under the personal supervision of a licensed tree
trimmer;
      4.   Any person performing trimming adjacent to his "private property",
as defined in section
 7-5-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 4199, 10-14-1996)
7-5A-2: EXAMINATION OF APPLICANTS:
No license required by this article shall be issued until the applicant has
taken a written test to determine the applicant's understanding of the basic
principles of proper tree removal, cutting and trimming. The test shall be
prepared by the city forester in question and answer form and administered by
the leisure services commission. A license shall be granted upon the applicant
correctly answering seventy percent (70%) or more of the questions, provided
that all other requirements of this article are met. (Ord. 3341, 5-29-1984)
7-5A-3: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Certificate Of Insurance Required:
      1.   Before engaging in the business or occupation of removing, cutting
or trimming trees in the city, every person shall file with the city clerk a
certificate of insurance written by a company authorized to transact business
in the state, with limits of not less than three hundred thousand dollars
($300,000.00) combined single limit to any person and one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000.00) property damage; said certificate to be written on a
standard form and carrying an endorsement naming the city and its employees as
additional insureds as its interest may appear and conditioned upon the
faithful performance of all duties required of such contractor by any
ordinances, rules and regulations of the city. It shall be a further condition
of said certificate of insurance that the obligator will hold the city harmless
from any and all damages sustained by reason of neglect or incompetency on the
part of such contractor, his agents or employees in the performance of the work
done under a license or permit issued upon the filing of said certificate.
      2.   Said certificate of insurance shall be issued by April 1 of each
year, and shall be refiled on or before said date for each subsequent year and
shall be in continuous full force and effect. It is the intent and purpose of
said certificate of insurance to also bind the individual, company, firm,
association or partnership, whether it be trade name, corporation or other
business association or arrangement with which the principal is associated.
   B.   Workers' Compensation Policy Required: Before engaging in the business
or occupation of removing, cutting or trimming trees in the city, every person
shall furnish satisfactory evidence to the city clerk that the workers employed
by him are covered by a suitable workers' compensation policy according to the
laws of the state, or of the state of the domicile of the person performing the
work. (Ord. 3341, 5-29-1984; amd. Ord. 4199, 10-14-1996)
7-5A-4: JOB PERMITS REQUIRED:
No person shall remove, cut or trim any tree or shrub in any park, street, or
public property in the city, except such persons as are exempt from the
requirements of a license pursuant to this article, without a permit issued by
the city forester. No permit required by this section for the removal, cutting
or trimming of trees shall be issued to any person who does not hold a license
pursuant to this article. No permit shall be required for the removal of wood
deposited by the forestry division for the purposes of public distribution.
(Ord. 3341, 5-29-1984)
7-5A-5: REMOVAL OF TRIMMINGS:
Any person having a permit required by this article shall immediately, at his
own expense, remove all trunks, limbs, branches, twigs or brush and dispose of
them in accordance with this code. (Ord. 3341, 5-29-1984)
ARTICLE B. WEEDS
SECTION:
7-5B-1: Definitions
7-5B-2: Nuisance Declared
7-5B-3: Owner's Responsibilities
7-5B-4: Weed Complaints
7-5B-5: Notice To Property Owners
7-5B-6: Payment, Assessment Of Costs, Appeal
7-5B-7: Exceptions
7-5B-8: Violation
7-5B-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise expressly stated or the context clearly indicates a different
intention, the following terms shall, for the purpose of this article, have the
following meanings:
CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: Person(s) authorized to enforce the weed ordinance.
COMPLAINANT: That person who files a weed nuisance complaint as described in
the Waterloo weed complaint policies.
ENFORCING AGENCY: The administration and enforcement of the provisions of this
article shall be the duty of the code enforcement officers.
NUISANCE: Any weeds which, due to the manner of their growth and height, cause
an annoyance to the general public, including, but not limited to, noxious
weeds as defined in the Iowa Code.
VOLUNTEER TREE: A volunteer tree is one that grows on its own, rather than
being deliberately planted.
WEED COMPLAINT: The weed nuisance complaint form or a call into the code
enforcement department as described in the Waterloo weed complaint policies.
WEED HAZARD: Any weed, grasses or other herbaceous vegetation which interferes
with any sidewalk or the traveled portion of any roadway or alley or with
visibility at any intersection, or traffic control light or sign or constitutes
a health, safety or fire hazard or otherwise endangers life or property.
WEEDS: Includes all herbaceous vegetation that is not controlled, maintained
and/or cared for under normal horticultural practices. (Ord. 5155, 3-25-2013;
amd. Ord. 5542, 3-2-2020)
7-5B-2: NUISANCE DECLARED:
   A.   Abatement Required: All weeds, vines, brush, volunteer trees, grass and
noxious weeds as defined by the Iowa Code, or other growths which exceed a
height of twelve inches (12") growing on lots and parcels of ground within the
corporate city limits, are declared to be a weed hazard or a public nuisance;
provided, however, that such height shall not exceed eight inches (8") on any
lot or parcel of ground that has a residential zoning classification. Such
hazards and nuisances shall be abated by the property owner or person in
possession of the property.
   B.   Nuisance Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any owner of any property
within the corporate city limits to maintain, cause, or permit weeds, grasses,
or other herbaceous vegetation to grow under such circumstances that said
vegetation is a "nuisance" or "weed hazard" as defined in this article. Such
determination shall be made by the code enforcement department or designee.
(Ord. 5155, 3-25-2013; amd. Ord. 5542, 3-2-2020)
7-5B-3: OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the property owner and/or person in possession
or control of the property to maintain the property as provided in this article
and keep such property free from nuisances and weed hazards.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the property owner and/or person in possession
or control of the property which abuts public right of way to maintain all
property between the property line and the curb line upon public streets and to
keep such property free from nuisances and weed hazards. (Ord. 5155, 3-25-2013)
7-5B-4: WEED COMPLAINTS:
   A.   Code enforcement officers shall be responsible for the administration
of this article.
   B.   The implementation of the provisions of this article and the Waterloo
weed complaint policies shall be the responsibility of the code enforcement
department. The code enforcement department shall have concurrent authority to
cause the standards and procedures of this article to be enforced and shall be
authorized to direct the removal of any weeds, grasses or other herbaceous
vegetation if such vegetation is located on private property and is declared a
nuisance or hazard in accordance with this article.
   C.   Abandoned properties and/or lots confirmed to be excessive nuisances
will be put on a list to be mowed in accordance with the city mowing contract.
Cost for said mowing may be assessed to the taxes for the property. (Ord. 5389,
2-20-2017)
7-5B-5: NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNERS:
   A.   Upon receipt of a complaint or observation by code enforcement
department, a notice shall be issued to the owner (as shown by the official
records of Black Hawk County), agent, and/or person in possession or control of
said property, describing the nuisance or hazard on said property. The first
notice issued in respect of a given property in a calendar year shall demand
abatement of the nuisance or hazard within five (5) days from the date of
conspicuous posting at listed address, or parcel, and service by regular mail.
Subsequent notices issued in respect of the same property in a calendar year
shall demand abatement of the nuisance or hazard within three (3) days from the
date of conspicuous posting at listed address or parcel, and service by regular
mail. Failure of the owner to abate the growth within the time frame set forth
herein may result in the city's abating said growth and assessing all costs
associated therewith against the affected property. For purposes of this
section, days shall be measured in calendar days.
   B.   Notice required herein shall be given in the manner prescribed, stating
that the property is in violation of this article, and that failure of the
owner, agent, and/or person in possession of said property to abate the growth
within the time frame set forth herein may result in the city's abating the
growth and assessing costs of said action against the property. If the code
enforcement department declares the growth to be an emergency, the city may
perform any action required to abate said growth without prior notice, and
assess any and all costs of said action to the property as provided herein. An
"emergency" shall be any act or omission of the property owner, agent, and/or
person in possession which constitutes a health, safety, or fire hazard to
anyone. (Ord. 5389, 2-20-2017)
7-5B-6: PAYMENT, ASSESSMENT OF COSTS, APPEAL:
   A.   Payment: Upon completion of the abatement of a weed hazard or nuisance
as provided for herein, the city clerk shall demand payment for the costs of
such abatement, plus applicable administrative fees, from the property owner by
mailing a statement of the fees and charges to the last known address of the
owner and/or person in possession as shown by the records of the county. Notice
shall be by ordinary mail. Said statement shall be due and payable upon mailing
and shall become delinquent if not paid within ten (10) days of the mailing
date of the notice. Any delinquent fees and charges may be assessed against the
property for collection in the same manner as a property tax, as provided in
state law.
   B.   Appeal: A property owner in receipt of a statement of fees and charges
for a weed abatement who contests the statement may file a written appeal with
the city clerk within ten (10) days of the postmarked date of the statement. An
administrative fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) must be paid when the appeal is
filed. Failure to file the appeal and pay the administrative fee within said
ten (10) days shall constitute a waiver of the right to a hearing, and the
statement of fees and charges shall thereupon become final. Hearing on the
appeal before the city council or its designated committee shall be scheduled
for a date within thirty (30) days of filing the appeal and shall be scheduled
for no more than thirty (30) minutes in length, or such additional time as the
city council or committee in its discretion may deem necessary. If the
appellant desires additional time, he or she must make application to the city
council or committee at least seven (7) days prior to the hearing date. The
appeal hearing shall be simple and informal, without regard to technicalities
of procedure or rules regarding admissibility of evidence. The city council or
committee may consider any evidence it considers credible, including testimony
of city employees, written summaries and other secondary sources, and give such
weight to the evidence as it considers warranted. After such hearing the city
council or committee shall determine whether the amount of the assessment
should be affirmed, reduced, or waived. Such determination shall be contained
in a written decision and shall be filed with the city clerk within ten (10)
days after the hearing, or any continued session thereof. In the event the city
council or committee waives the amount of the assessment by over half, the
fifty dollar ($50.00) filing fee for the appeal will be refunded to the
appellant. (Ord. 5389, 2-20-2017)
7-5B-7: EXCEPTIONS:
The following shall be exceptions to the provisions of this article:
   A.   Vegetable and/or flower gardens, purposefully planted, shall be
permitted to exceed twelve inches (12") in height if they are maintained free
of weed hazard or nuisance.
   B.   Wood perennials, purposefully planted, shall be permitted to exceed
twelve inches (12") if they are planted and maintained in compliance with this
chapter.
   C.   Non-noxious weeds and other growth shall be permitted to exceed twelve
inches (12") in height upon those properties within the corporate city limits
upon which development has never occurred and which are not located within
three hundred feet (300') of any developed area’s closest property line, so
that uncontrolled growth will constitute a weed hazard or nuisance to developed
areas.
   D.   Native plantings consistent with regulations established by the City
Engineer and/or the City Forester, or their designees, and approved by
resolution of the city council.
   E.   Prairie grass areas, wildflower planting areas, natural reserve and
preserve areas, urban woodlots, wildlife refuge and conservation areas,
wetlands and natural waterways, all as recognized and identified by a
governmental agency, provided that setbacks shall be required pursuant to any
applicable zoning ordinances, and amendments thereto.
   F.   Land zoned agricultural, steep slopes, wooded areas, ravines and lots
of the city exceeding three acres in size. (Ord. 5634, 3-7-2021)
7-5B-8: VIOLATION:
It is unlawful for any owner or person in possession of any lot, parcel or
tract of ground situated within the city, to permit a weed hazard or nuisance
to grow thereon or upon the abutting right of way as provided in this article.
Failure of the owner to abate the growth within the time frame set forth herein
may result in the city's abating said growth and assessing all costs associated
therewith against the affected property. For purposes of this section, days
shall be measured in calendar days. (Ord. 5389, 2-20-2017)
ARTICLE C. VEGETATION ON PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-5C-1: Definitions
7-5C-2: Management Of Rights-Of-Way Vegetation
7-5C-3: Duties Of Adjacent Property Owners
7-5C-4: Nuisances Prohibited
7-5C-5: Removal Of Vegetation Prohibited
7-5C-6: City's Rights Reserved
7-5C-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise expressly stated or the context clearly indicates a different
intention, the following terms shall, for the purpose of this article, have the
following meanings:
DITCH: Any portion of a street designed or maintained for the purpose of
drainage and water holding.
FLOOD CONTROL LEVEE SYSTEM: All areas relating to the city of Waterloo flood
control program including, but not limited to, levees, holding ponds, drainage
areas and associated properties.
HAZARD: Any vegetation which interferes with the traveled portion or maintained
shoulder of any roadway or the visibility at any intersection, driveway or
traffic control-light or sign or which otherwise endangers life or property.
NUISANCE: Any vegetation which, due to manner of growth, causes an annoyance to
the general public.
PARKING STRIP: That portion of the street between the curb line, shoulder line
or traveled portion of the roadway or alley and the private property line,
excepting ditches.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: All public property included in the following:
   A.   Streets;
   B.   The entire flood control levee system of the city;
   C.   Any miscellaneous public property not managed or maintained by other
governmental bodies, private persons or agencies of the city. (Ord. 3341, 5-29-
1984)
7-5C-2: MANAGEMENT OF RIGHTS-OF-WAY VEGETATION:
   A.   The leisure services commission shall be responsible for the
administration of this article including the management of all vegetation on
public rights of way. The leisure services commission shall be authorized to
organize, direct and regulate said management and to enforce the provisions of
this article.
   B.   A rights-of-way maintenance division shall be established within the
leisure services commission and shall manage the vegetation on all public
rights of way in accordance with this article and guidelines set forth by the
leisure services commission.
   C.   Nothing in this article shall be held or construed to prevent or
prohibit the city from entering into agreement with other governmental agencies
or private persons to provide for the maintenance and management of certain
public rights of way by said agencies or persons. (Ord. 3341, 5-29-1984)
7-5C-3: DUTIES OF ADJACENT PROPERTY OWNERS:
   A.   Parking Strips: All private property owners in the city:
      1.   Are hereby granted the right to construct lawns or grass plots on
parking strips adjacent to their property and to ornament said parking strips
with vegetation.
      2.   Shall maintain the parking strips adjacent to their property, and
the vegetation growing thereon, in a manner consistent with this chapter and
all other city ordinances including keeping said parking strips free of holes
and fences.
   B.   Ditches:
      1.   All property owners in the city shall maintain the vegetation
growing in ditches adjacent to their property in a manner consistent with this
chapter and all other city ordinances.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for said property owners to maintain, cause or
permit the vegetation in said ditches under such circumstances that the
vegetation is or may become a hazard. (Ord. 3341, 5-29-1984)
7-5C-4: NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
   A.   No private property owner in the city shall maintain, cause or permit
any vegetation in a ditch adjacent to said private property under such
circumstances that said vegetation is a nuisance.
   B.   In the event that such a nuisance occurs, a written complaint which
describes said nuisance and is signed by the complainant must be filed with the
city.
   C.   Upon receipt of a complaint, a notice shall be issued to the owner of
the property describing the property and the nuisance which shall request the
abatement of the nuisance within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the notice.
The owner shall receive a signed copy of the complaint form.
   D.   In the event the owner of the property refuses to abate the nuisance
within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the notice, the complainant may charge
the property owner with a violation of this section by signing the appropriate
citation. (Ord. 3341, 5-29-1984)
7-5C-5: REMOVAL OF VEGETATION PROHIBITED:
No person shall damage or remove any herbaceous vegetation contained on any
public right of way in the city without first obtaining permission from the
leisure services commission. In the event that such removal or damage does
occur, the person responsible for such removal or damage shall immediately, and
at his own expense, repair or replace said vegetation to the satisfaction of
the leisure services commission. (Ord. 3341, 5-29-1984)
7-5C-6: CITY'S RIGHTS RESERVED:
Nothing contained in this article shall be held or construed to prevent or
prohibit the city from managing the vegetation contained in the public rights
of way for any purpose which shall, in the judgment of the city, be deemed
necessary or advisable. (Ord. 3341, 5-29-1984)
CHAPTER 6
RAILROADS
SECTION:
7-6-1: Speed Limits For Trains
7-6-2: Railway Companies To Maintain Streets
7-6-3: Obstruction Of Crossings
7-6-4: Interfere With Train Cars
7-6-1: SPEED LIMITS FOR TRAINS:
The following speed shall be the maximum speed allowed in the operation of
trains or parts thereof in the city:
   A.   Chicago Great Western Railroad Company: Twenty (20) miles per hour
between Linden Avenue and Falls Avenue; thirty (30) miles per hour between
Falls Avenue and Fletcher Avenue; and unrestricted elsewhere.
   B.   Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Railroad Company: Twenty (20) miles per
hour between Eighteenth Street and Eleventh Street; twenty (20) miles per hour
between Eleventh Street and Mullan Avenue; thirty (30) miles per hour between
Mullan Avenue and Rainbow Drive; and unrestricted elsewhere.
   C.   Illinois Central Railroad Company: Unrestricted between the east
corporate limits and the east belt line junction; unrestricted between the west
belt line junction and the west corporate limits; twenty (20) miles per hour
between the east belt line junction and the west belt line junction via freight
or main line; twenty (20) miles per hour between the east belt line junction
and the west belt line junction via the belt line.
   D.   Waterloo, Cedar Falls & Northern Railroad Company: Twenty (20) miles
per hour between North Barclay and Donald Streets; unrestricted elsewhere,
except that speeds shall be reduced to twenty (20) miles per hour in traversing
and passing over the Idaho Street and Newell Street grade crossings
respectively. (Rev. Ord. 1916, Comp. 1941, p. R-14)
7-6-2: RAILWAY COMPANIES TO MAINTAIN STREETS:
   A.   All railways now or hereafter occupying any of the streets of the city
shall keep in repair and up to grade all paving, graveling and macadamizing
between the rails of the tracks of the railway, and within one foot (1')
outside thereof. Also, all paving, graveling and macadamizing removed or
disturbed on any street of the city by any railway, whether between the rails
or within one foot (1') outside thereof.
   B.   In making such repairs as are required by subsection A of this section,
the railway shall use for such purpose material of the same kind as that used
for the original paving, graveling or macadamizing, and the street shall be
repaired so as to comply with the original plans of the street to be repaired.
   C.   Whenever the city council shall deem repairs necessary of such portions
of streets required to be kept in repair by railways as provided in subsection
A of this section, the city council shall, by resolution, order the railway to
repair such portion of any street for which the railway shall be liable for the
repairs. A copy of the resolution shall be served upon the railway, and if the
railway shall neglect or refuse to repair the street or streets so ordered by
the city council for a period of ten (10) days, then the city shall proceed to
repair the paving, either by letting a contract therefor, or by purchasing
suitable material and employing competent persons to make the repairs. In case
the repairs are made by the city by the purchase of material and the employment
of competent help, the repairs shall be made under the direction of the city
engineer. The cost of making all repairs ordered by the city, whether by
contract or otherwise, shall be assessed upon the real estate and personal
property of the railway within the city, in the manner provided by state law.
(Rev. Ord. 1178, Comp. 1941, p. R-2)
7-6-3: OBSTRUCTION OF CROSSINGS:
   A.   A railroad corporation or its employees shall not operate any train in
such a manner as to prevent vehicular use of the following named streets for a
period of time in excess of five (5) minutes:
Franklin, Mulberry, Lafayette, Sycamore, Commercial and Jefferson Streets
running north and south;
West Fifth Street, West Fourth Street, West Park Avenue, West First Street and
West Mullan Avenue running east and west;
West Eighteenth Street and West Eleventh Street running east and west;
except that said five (5) minute limitation shall not apply:
      1.   When necessary to comply with signals affecting the safety of the
movement of trains.
      2.   When necessary to avoid striking any object or person on the track.
      3.   When the train is disabled.
      4.   When necessary to comply with governmental safety regulations.
   B.   A railroad corporation or its employees shall not operate any train in
such a manner as to prevent vehicular use of any highway, street or alley,
except as set forth in subsection A of this section, for a period of time in
excess of ten (10) minutes except:
      1.   When necessary to comply with signals affecting the safety of the
movement of trains.
      2.   When necessary to avoid striking any object or person on the track.
      3.   When the train is disabled.
      4.   When necessary to comply with governmental safety regulations.
   C.   Any officer or employee of a railroad corporation violating any of the
provisions of this section shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor
and punished accordingly. An employee shall not be guilty of such violation if
his action was necessary to comply with the direct order or instructions of the
railroad corporation or its supervisors. Such guilt shall then be with the
railroad corporation. (Rev. Ord. 1205, Comp. 1941, p. R-5; amd. Ord. 2931, 12-
12-1977)
7-6-4: INTERFERE WITH TRAIN CARS:
Any person who, not being an employee of a railroad, shall interfere with any
standing car or engine on a railroad, by setting or unsetting the brakes, or in
any manner setting the car or engine in motion, without the consent of the
person having charge or care of the car or locomotive shall be deemed guilty of
an offense. The provisions of this section shall not apply to a peace officer
in the performance of his duty. (Rev. Ord. 1111, Comp. 1941, p. C-3)
CHAPTER 7
MUNICIPAL LIBRARY
SECTION:
7-7-1: Library Established; Purpose
7-7-2: Authority To Contract For Library Use
7-7-3: Nonresident Use Of Library
7-7-4: Library Account
7-7-5: Return Of Library Materials Or Equipment
7-7-1: LIBRARY ESTABLISHED; PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the establishment of a free
public library for the city, for the creation and appointment of a city library
board of trustees 1  and to specify that board's powers and duties. Said
library is hereby established and shall be known as the Waterloo public
library. (Ord. 2739, 5-27-1975)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 2, chapter 5 of this code.
7-7-2: AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT FOR LIBRARY USE:
   A.   Contract Authorized: The library board of trustees may contract with
any other boards of trustees of free public libraries, any other city, school,
corporation, private or semiprivate organization, institution of higher
learning, township, county, or with the trustees of any county library district
for the use of the library by their respective residents.
   B.   Termination: Such a contract may be terminated at any time by mutual
consent of the contracting parties. It also may be terminated by a majority
vote of the electors represented by either of the contracting parties. Such a
termination proposition shall be submitted to the electors by the governing
body of a contracting party on a written petition of not less than five percent
(5%) in number of the electors who voted for governor in the territory of the
party at the last general election. The petition must be presented to the
governing body not less than forty (40) days before the election. The
proposition may be submitted at any election provided by law that is held in
the territory of the party who is seeking to terminate the contract. (Ord.
2739, 5-27-1975)
7-7-3: NONRESIDENT USE OF LIBRARY:
The library board may authorize the use of the library by nonresidents in any
one or more of the following ways:
   A.   Lending the books or other materials of the library to nonresidents on
the same terms and conditions as to residents of the city, or upon payment of a
special nonresident library fee.
   B.   Establishing depositories of library books or other materials to be
loaned to nonresidents.
   C.   Establishing bookmobiles or a traveling library so that books or other
library materials may be loaned to nonresidents.
   D.   Establishing branch libraries for lending books or other library
materials to nonresidents. (Ord. 2739, 5-27-1975)
7-7-4: LIBRARY ACCOUNT:
All money appropriated by the city council from the general fund for the
operation and maintenance of the library shall be set aside in an account for
the library. Expenditures from the appropriated funds shall only be disbursed
upon order of the board, signed by its director or designee. The warrant
writing officer is the city clerk. The city council has no authority to approve
or disapprove expenditures for the library when they are made within the
appropriation. (Ord. 2739, 5-27-1975; amd. Ord. 3422, 2-24-1986)
7-7-5: RETURN OF LIBRARY MATERIALS OR EQUIPMENT:
   A.   If a person fails to return library material for two (2) months or more
after the date the person agreed to return the library materials, the failure
to return is a violation of this code. If a person fails to return library
equipment for one month or more after the date the person agreed to return the
library equipment, the failure to return is a violation of this code. However,
the library shall make a reasonable attempt to reclaim the materials or
equipment; a reasonable attempt shall include the mailing, by registered
certified mail, notice that such material or equipment is overdue and legal
actions will be taken.
   B.   The director of the library, and his designee, shall have authority to
issue citations for any violations referenced in this section. (Ord. 3537, 3-
28-1988)
CHAPTER 8
LEISURE, CULTURAL AND ARTS SERVICES
SECTION:
7-8-1: Use Of Public Facilities
7-8-2: Open Burning
7-8-3: Vehicle Restrictions
7-8-4: Animal Control
7-8-5: Use Of Weapons, Fireworks
7-8-6: Prohibited Acts
7-8-7: Parental Responsibility
7-8-8: Violation; Penalty
7-8-1: USE OF PUBLIC FACILITIES:
   A.   Swimming, Wading Or Bathing In Watercourses Traversing Public Property:
No person in the city shall swim, wade or bathe in the Cedar River, Black Hawk
Creek, Virden Creek or any other body of water owned by, abutting upon or
adjacent to property owned by the city, except municipal swimming pools or
designated swimming areas. This subsection shall not be construed to apply to
properly equipped waterskiers or fishermen.
   B.   Use Of Park Facilities For Public Meetings: Public meetings, religious,
political or otherwise, including picnic parties and entertainment for
charitable or religious purposes, may be held in any public park upon first
obtaining permission of the leisure services commission or its authorized
official. Such assemblages shall be conducted in a lawful and orderly manner,
and shall occupy such ground or facilities as may be assigned to or reserved
for them. Use of a public address system or similar methods of amplifying sound
is subject to section
5-2-7 of this code 1 . The leisure services commission shall require insurance
of groups using parks and park facilities in such amounts as are necessary to
protect the commission and the city against loss of and damage to public
property and to indemnify against any liability. The group or groups shall name
the city and the leisure services commission as additional insureds, and within
twenty four (24) hours of obtaining permission to use park facilities, the
group shall provide to the city clerk a certificate of insurance evidencing the
requirements set forth above.
   C.   Park Hours: No person shall remain in any public park after the hour of
eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. unless special permission shall have been given by
the park authorities for any such person or group to remain there. The public
parks shall be closed to the public from eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. to five
o'clock (5:00) A.M. The Riverview Recreation Area shall not be subject to this
rule unless otherwise required by the city council.
   D.   Sports And Games Restricted To Certain Areas: No person shall engage in
a sport, game or recreational activity in the public parks and public landscape
and turf grass areas under the maintenance care of the leisure services
commission except in areas designated and maintained for that particular
purpose.
   E.   Entrances To Facilities: No person shall enter upon portions of any
public park in disregard of signs or posted notices forbidding the same. (Ord.
4340, 2-22-1999)
   F.   Nonmotorized Watercraft: Nonmotorized watercraft shall be permitted on
all public lakes and ponds greater than one acre in size. A "nonmotorized
watercraft" means any type of boat, canoe, kayak, paddleboard or any other
craft that is manufactured for navigation on navigable bodies of water. A
nonmotorized watercraft does not include any floatable or inflatable object
primarily designed for use in public or private pools. Wearable personal
flotation devices are required while using city owned bodies of water. (Ord.
5377, 12-12-2016)
 
Notes
  1. See also sections
1 4-5-4 and
  4-5-5 of this code.
7-8-2: OPEN BURNING:
No fires shall be lighted or made in any public park except by permission of
park authorities. This does not refer to the fires in stoves and ovens provided
by the leisure services commission for use in public cooking. (Ord. 4340, 2-22-
1999)
7-8-3: VEHICLE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Operation; Speed Limits: No person shall ride or drive an automobile,
motorcycle, minibike, go-cart, snowmobile or other vehicle in any public park
except upon the established roads and ways, and shall not exceed a speed limit
of twenty (20) miles per hour at any time, or such lower speed limits as are
posted in designated areas.
   B.   Parking Vehicles:
      1.   In Public Driveways; Obedience To Traffic Signs: No automobiles or
other vehicles shall be permitted to stand in any of the public driveways in
any such park where signs to the contrary are posted. Nor shall any vehicle be
driven contrary to any traffic signs including direction, stop, yield, caution
or other proper control device.
      2.   For Certain Purposes Or During Hours When Park Is Closed: Parking of
cars in any public park for the purpose of repair, washing, cleaning, general
maintenance, nonpark use or during hours when said park is closed is
prohibited.
   C.   Trucks, Other Commercial Vehicles: No person shall drive a truck or
other commercial vehicle of any kind along or over any park roads or drives
except for delivery purposes in such parks.
   D.   Operation Of Motorized Recreational Vehicles: Motorized recreational
vehicles may be operated only in designated areas. (Ord. 4340, 2-22-1999)
7-8-4: ANIMAL CONTROL:
   A.   Animals Prohibited From Running At Large: No animal shall be allowed to
run at large in any public park, and any animal found in any such park shall be
deemed to be found running at large unless the owner carries said animal or
leads him by a chain, strap or rope not exceeding six feet (6') in length, or
keeps any such animal confined in a wagon, automobile or other vehicle by
chain, rope or strap not exceeding six feet (6') in length. This rule may be
enforced by the police department, the Humane Society or any other department
or agency designated to enforce animal control ordinances, or any person in the
employment of the leisure services commission to remove and impound any animal
running at large in any public park.
   B.   Riding, Leading Horses: Except for authorized police personnel, no
person shall ride or lead a horse in any public park except on public drives or
designated bridle paths. (Ord. 4340, 2-22-1999)
7-8-5: USE OF WEAPONS, FIREWORKS 1 :
   A.   Weapons, Explosives, Fireworks, Etc.: No person shall use or carry any
firearms, air or pellet guns, explosives, weapons, firecrackers or fireworks of
any character in any public park except as otherwise provided by this code. No
person shall use any fireworks on city property. (Ord. 5400, 5-22-2017)
   B.   Hunting And Trapping: Hunting and trapping are prohibited, except as
otherwise provided by this code. This includes the use of firearms, air or
pellet guns, bow and arrow, trained hawk or falcon and harassment of animal and
bird life by whatever means, except as may be authorized by the city council.
(Ord. 5071, 9-6-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  9-2C-4 of this code.
7-8-6: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Destruction, Removal Of Trees And Other Plants: No person shall, in any
manner, deface, injure or remove any tree, shrub or plant standing or growing
in any public park or pick or destroy any flowers or seeds growing therein.
   B.   Littering:
      1.   Depositing Prohibited; Receptacles: No person shall deposit upon or
litter the ground with any form of waste material; all such waste material
shall be deposited in receptacles provided therefor.
      2.   In Bodies Of Water: No person shall throw or place any foreign waste
substance in any body of water in or adjacent to any public park. No person
shall swim or bathe in such body of water except municipal swimming pools or
designated swimming areas.
   C.   Throwing Objects Onto Ice Facilities: No person shall throw any stone,
stick or other missile or obstruction upon the ice in any park.
   D.   Disturbing, Interfering With Buildings, Improvements, Birds Or Animals:
No person shall disturb or interfere with any building or improvement of any
kind made or being made in or about any public park, or disturb or interfere
with birds or animals kept or found therein or in any of the parks.
   E.   Posting Placards, Bills, Notices, Etc.: No person shall post, paste,
fasten, paint or affix any placard, bill or notice or sign upon any structure,
tree, stone, fence or enclosure along or within any park.
   F.   Moving Benches, Seats And Tables: No person shall move benches, seats
and tables from their places in any park, except at picnic grounds.
   G.   Removal Of Wood, Plants, Rocks, Etc.: No person shall cut or remove any
wood, plants, turf, grass, soil, rock, sand or gravel from any public park
unless authorized by the director of leisure services. (Ord. 4340, 2-22-1999)
7-8-7: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
No parent, guardian or custodian of a minor shall permit such minor to do any
act prohibited by any such provision of these rules. (Ord. 4340, 2-22-1999)
7-8-8: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
A violation of this chapter or any rule or regulation thereof shall be punished
as a municipal infraction and fined as provided in subsection
1-3-2C of this code. (Ord. 4340, 2-22-1999; amd. 2001 Code)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC UTILITIES
Public Utilities Regulations   1
Water Regulations   2
Sewer Regulations   3
User Charges And Fees   3A
Use Regulations   3B
Discharges Into System   3C
Private Sewage Disposal Systems   3D
Regulation Of Fat, Oil And Grease
Discharge By Food Service Establishments   3E
Foundation Drain Disconnection   3F
Stormwater Management Program   4
Illicit Discharge Detection And
Elimination   4A
Construction Site Erosion And
Sediment Control   4B
Postconstruction Stormwater Management   4C
CHAPTER 1
PUBLIC UTILITIES REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Underground Utility Connections
8-1-2: Damage To Utility Equipment
8-1-3: Gas-Burning Space Heaters
8-1-1: UNDERGROUND UTILITY CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Whenever the city council has ordered any street, highway, alley,
avenue or public place permanently improved by paving, graveling or
macadamizing the public way 1 , it shall notify the board of waterworks
trustees of the contemplated improvement at the time of the passage of the
proposed resolution of necessity, and thereupon the board of waterworks
trustees shall report to the city council the lots and names of the owners and
the requirements in respect to connections from any water mains or pipes to the
curb of the abutting and adjacent property.
   B.   The city council shall pass a resolution requiring the respective
owners of the abutting or adjacent property to make connections with the water
mains in the manner required by the regulations of the board of waterworks
trustees, and the city council shall at the same time require the property
owners to make connection with the sewer main in the street and to make
application for connection with the gas main and underground electric conduit
if there be one.
   C.   A notice shall be given the property owners by two (2) publications in
a newspaper of general circulation in the city, the first publication of which
shall be at least ten (10) days prior to the time fixed in the notice, at which
time the putting in of the connection must be completed.
   D.   It shall be the duty of the gas and electric utilities companies to
whom application is made by the property owner for a connection with a gas main
or an electric conduit immediately preceding the improvement of a street, to
install the connection as soon as practicable.
   E.   If the owner of the property fails to put in the water connections
before the time stated in the notice, or within such additional time as may be
granted by the city council, not exceeding thirty (30) days, the board of
waterworks trustees or the city shall have the power to put in the water
connection and certify the actual costs to the city council; and if said owner
fails to make connection with the sewer main or fails to make application for
connection with the gas main or underground electric conduit, the city may
install the connection with the sewer main and may order in a connection with
the gas main or electric conduit, and the costs of the installation of the
connections to the curb line of the property, including the amounts certified
by the board of waterworks trustees, or the city, shall be assessed by the city
council to the respective lots and tracts of land in the same manner in which
other special assessments are made as provided by law.
   F.   Whenever the city council has ordered the widening of any paving of any
street, alley or highway within the city with a paving strip of sufficient
thickness and strength equal to the specifications therefor of the State
Highway Commission and to safely permit underground connections to be made
later for water, sewer or gas connections, as and when necessary, the city
council may waive the requirement of making connections of sewer, gas, water
and electricity, as required in subsection B of this section before the street
widening improvement is made. (Rev. Ord. 1119, Comp. 1941, p. C-11; amd. Rev.
Ord. 1407, Comp. 1941, p. C-12)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  7-2-1 of this code.
8-1-2: DAMAGE TO UTILITY EQUIPMENT:
Any person who, by throwing stones or other missiles, or in any other manner,
shall break any glass insulator attached to any telephone or telegraph pole, or
shall, in any other manner, interfere with or injure such property, or any
electric light, gas lamp or other utilities facilities, shall be guilty of an
offense. (Rev. Ord. 1183, Comp. 1941)
8-1-3: GAS-BURNING SPACE HEATERS:
   A.   Installation Prohibited; Exceptions: No gas-burning space heating
equipment shall be installed, connected or used within the city unless:
      1.   The gas space heating equipment is installed and in regular
operation prior to May 25, 1954.
      2.   The gas space heating equipment replaces gas-fired equipment of
equal or greater capacity previously installed and regularly operated at the
same premises for the same purpose.
      3.   The gas space heating equipment is used for industrial or commercial
heating purposes where the users thereof maintain complete standby facilities
and sufficient standby fuel to enable them to maintain continuous plant
operations on such standby equipment and fuel in the event of a full
curtailment of the supply of gas.
      4.   The gas space heating equipment is installed in existing and new
buildings to the extent that the total amount of gas that will be required by
such installation shall not exceed the contract capacity allocated to the city
by the Northern Natural Gas Company under Federal Power Commission tariffs and
regulations and under the following conditions:
         a.   Where the gas can be supplied through existing service pipes into
the premises, or as required by franchise.
         b.   In the order in which applications for new buildings were made to
the Iowa Public Service Company for said heating gas on the regular forms of
said company.
         c.   In the order in which applications for heating existing buildings
were made to the Iowa Public Service Company for the heating gas on the regular
forms of the company.
         d.   Gas heating applications for new buildings shall have preference
over applications for heating existing buildings.
         e.   Where the gas will not exceed five hundred thousand (500,000) BTU
per hour for any one customer installation.
   B.   Determination Of New Buildings; Allocation Of Priorities: For the
purpose of this section, any building constructed within six (6) months prior
to May 25, 1954, and not having been occupied prior to May 25, 1954, shall be
classed as a new building, and existing buildings which are remodeled to
provide additional separate apartments or separate commercial space and not
having been occupied prior to May 25, 1954, shall be classed as new buildings,
and upon the completion of structural changes in said buildings shall be
entitled to priority for heating gas over buildings on which the foundations
are not completed.
   C.   Discontinue Service: Any distributor of gas shall discontinue gas
service to any premises wherein any gas-fired space heating equipment is
installed, connected or used contrary to the provisions of this section. Upon
the determination of any such distributor that new space heating equipment in
the city has been installed, connected or used contrary to the provisions of
this section, the distributor shall forthwith notify in writing the owners or
occupants of the premises where such equipment is installed, that all gas
service to such premises for space heating purposes will be discontinued twenty
(20) days after service of the notice, and the distributor shall discontinue
the service at the end of the period unless the equipment has been disconnected
and removed. (Rev. Ord. 1972, Comp. 1941, p. G-8)
CHAPTER 2
WATER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Mandatory Connection Required
8-2-1: MANDATORY CONNECTION REQUIRED:
   A.   When water mains are laid in streets where no main formerly existed,
the owners of property abutting upon the streets, having water connections with
private mains or pipes, may be ordered to connect with the water mains so laid,
when notified to do so by written notice from the secretary of the board of
waterworks trustees, within the time specified in the notice. When repairs are
needed on any connection with the water main or where a pave box projects above
the surface of the street, the owner of the property abutting the street in
front of which the water connection or pave box exists, may be ordered to make
such repairs or lower the pave box by notice from the secretary of the board of
waterworks trustees, as provided in this subsection.
   B.   Whenever any water connections or repairs are ordered, or any pave box
ordered lowered, as provided in subsection A of this section, and the person
owning the real estate in front of which the connection or pave box exists,
fails to make the connection or repair or fails to lower the pave box within
the time fixed by the notice, the board of waterworks trustees shall cause the
connection or repair to be made, or the defective box lowered and assess the
property in front of which the connection or repair is made, or the pave box
lowered, the cost and expense of doing the work.
   C.   Whenever any water connections or repairs are ordered as provided in
subsection A of this section, or any pave box ordered lowered, the work shall
be done under the supervision and direction of the superintendent of
waterworks, who shall keep an accurate account of the cost and expense of doing
so and make return thereof to the board of waterworks trustees.
   D.   Whenever the board of waterworks trustees shall cause any connection or
repair to be made or any pave box lowered pursuant to this section, the board
of waterworks trustees shall certify the actual cost and expense thereof,
giving the name or names of the owners of the property and the amount of cost
and expense to be assessed against each lot or tract of ground.
   E.   When the cost and expense of doing the work pursuant to this section in
any instance shall be certified, notice shall be given and the assessment made
and certified as provided by law.
   F.   When a water main has been laid in any street provided in subsection A
of this section, where abutting property owners have had water connections with
private mains, and connections have been made to the abutting property with the
water mains so laid, the water works general manager is authorized to
disconnect the private mains and shut off the water supply from the private
mains. (Rev. Ord. 1118, Comp. 1941, p. C-10; amd. Ord. 5580, 11-2-2020)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Purpose
8-3-2: Scope
8-3-3: Definitions
8-3-4: Administration
8-3-5: Superintendence
8-3-6: Permits Required
8-3-7: Construction Permits
8-3-8: Wastewater Discharge Permits
8-3-8-1: General Requirements
8-3-8-2: Permit Application Procedures
8-3-9: Capacity Requirements
8-3-10: Confidentiality
8-3-11: Falsifying Information
8-3-12: Notice Of Violation
8-3-13: Orders
8-3-14: Disconnection
8-3-15: Right To Hearing
8-3-16: Revocation Of Permit
8-3-17: Legal Action
8-3-18: Continuing Offense
8-3-19: Termination Of Service
8-3-20: Reinstatement Of Service
8-3-21: Additional Remedies
8-3-22: Penalties For Noncompliance
8-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the optimum public use of the
city's wastewater collection and treatment facilities through the regulation of
sewer construction, sewer use and industrial wastewater discharges; to provide
for distribution of the city's costs for ownership, operation and maintenance
of the wastewater collection and treatment facilities necessary for protection
of public health and environment; and to meet the applicable regulatory
requirements that may be imposed on the city now or in the future. (Ord. 4261,
10-6-1997)
8-3-2: SCOPE:
   A.   This chapter shall be interpreted in accordance with the definitions
set forth in section
8-3-3 of this chapter.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to direct and/or indirect
wastewater discharge to the city's facilities. It provides for regulation of
sewer construction that will contribute to the city's facilities, quantity and
quality of wastewater discharges, industrial wastewater pretreatment
requirements, establishes fees for the distribution of costs for ownership,
operation and maintenance of the collection and treatment facilities, the
approval of plans and/or specifications for sewer construction, issuance of
permits for industrial wastewater discharge, miscellaneous permits, and
establishment of appropriate enforcement actions for violations of this
chapter. (Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997)
8-3-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings:
BOD   Biochemical oxygen demand
CBOD  Carbonaceous biochemical oxygen demand
CFR   Code of Federal Regulations
CFS   Cubic feet per second
COD   Chemical oxygen demand
EPA   Environmental Protection Agency
FOG   Fats, oils, and greases
GPD   Gallons per day
GPM   Gallons per minute
IDNR  Iowa Department of Natural Resources
mg    Milligram
mg/l  Milligrams per liter
MGD   Million gallons per day
NH3-N Ammonia nitrogen
NPDES National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
POTW  Publicly owned treatment works
ppm   Parts per million
RCRA  Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
SIC   Standard industrial classification
SIU   Significant industrial user
TKN   Total kjeldahl nitrogen
TSS   Total suspended solids
WMSD  Waste management services department
WPCF  Water pollution control facilities
 
When used herein, "shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
ACT OR THE ACT: Federal water pollution control act, also known as the clean
water act, as amended, 33 USC 1251 et seq.
ADMINISTRATOR: Superintendent of the waste management services department or
designated representative.
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE: Individual designated by the city council with
authority to act on the city's behalf in regard to a specific issue.
AVERAGE DAILY FLOW: Volume of flow compiled over a given period of time and
converted to a daily average by dividing the total flow by the number of days
represented in the time period for which data has been compiled.
Where individual day's flow readings are recorded, the average shall be based
on the number of days for which flows are recorded and not necessarily the
total number of days in the time period.
For computing average daily flow for industrial users, only production days
shall be included in the computation. Weekends and/or holidays, shutdowns,
etc., shall not generally be considered by the city in computing the average
daily flow.
AVERAGE DAILY LOADING: Measure of a particular constituent (generally BOD, TSS
and/or TKN) compiled over a period of time and converted to a daily average by
dividing the cumulative concentration and/or volume of the constituent by the
number of days represented in the time period for which data has been compiled.
Where individual day's loadings are recorded, the average shall be based on the
number of days for which loadings are recorded and not necessarily the total
number of days in the time period.
For computing average daily loadings for industrial users, only production days
shall be included in the computation. Weekends and/or holidays, shutdowns,
etc., shall not generally be considered by the city in computing the average
daily loading.
BASIC WASTEWATER CHARGE: Monthly charge based on volume of flow by a
contributor which is intended to recover the cost of operation and maintenance
of the city's share of the POTW and associated programs.
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs): Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to prevent or
reduce the discharge of waterborne pollutants. BMPs also include treatment
requirements, operating procedures, and practices to control site runoff,
spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw materials
storage.
BILLABLE FLOW: The volume of wastewater generated by a user as measured by a
water meter or other approved metering system.
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The quantity of oxygen used in the biochemical
oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory conditions in five (5)
days at twenty degrees Celsius (20°C), usually expressed in milligrams per
liter.
BIOSOLIDS/SLUDGE: Solids, semisolids, residues and/or precipitates that result
from the treatment of wastewater.
BYPASS: The diversion of wastewater from or around any portion of the
collection system and/or treatment facility.
CARBONACEOUS BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (CBOD): That portion of the BOD
attributable to the biochemical oxidation of the carbonaceous organic matter.
This is determined through standard laboratory analyses using a nitrification
inhibitor in performing the BOD test. Generally expressed in milligrams per
liter.
CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS: National pollutant discharge limits
promulgated by EPA in accordance with section 307(b) and (c) of the clean water
act, which apply to specific categories of industrial users 1 . Unless noted
otherwise, categorical pretreatment standards shall always refer to the latest
approved limits.
CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD): The quantity of oxygen used in the chemical
decomposition of organic matter in wastewater as determined by the appropriate
laboratory procedure, usually expressed in milligrams per liter.
CITY: City of Waterloo, Iowa.
CITY ENGINEER: City engineer of the city.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer which receives both sanitary sewage and storm sewage.
COMPOSITE SAMPLE: The sample resulting from the combination of individual
wastewater samples taken at selected intervals based on an increment of either
flow or time.
CONTRIBUTOR, DISCHARGER OR USER: Any person, firm, corporation or other entity
or organization responsible for the production of domestic, commercial or
industrial wastewater which is discharged to the wastewater collection and
treatment system.
DEBT SERVICE: Funds necessary to recover annual principal and interest payments
for bonds issued for the wastewater system.
DEMAND CHARGE: Charge which recovers debt service costs associated with the
wastewater treatment system.
DISCHARGE: The introduction of pollutants into a POTW from any nondomestic
source regulated under section 307(b), (c) or (d) of the act.
DOMESTIC USER: Discharge of wastewater from a residential household.
DOMESTIC WASTEWATER: Household type wastes discharged from places of human
habitation, including sanitary convenience, kitchen and laundry waste. Domestic
strength wastewater is accepted as having the following characteristics:
 
BOD     300 mg/l
TSS     350 mg/l
TKN     30 mg/l
NH3 -N  15 mg/l
FOG     100 mg/l
 
EFFLUENT: Discharge from a particular facility, unit, treatment process or
system.
EFFLUENT LIMITS; EFFLUENT STANDARDS: Numerical limits on pollutants in
effluents generally reported in milligrams per liter or pounds per day.
FOUNDATION DRAIN OR FOOTING DRAIN: Piping system around the foundation of a
structure or building which is intended to carry groundwater away from the
structure to relieve hydraulic pressure and help keep the structure walls dry.
This may also refer to the sump pump used in the footing drain system, where
applicable.
GRAB SAMPLE: The sample which is taken from a waste stream on a onetime basis
without regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration of
time.
GRAVITY SEPARATION INTERCEPTOR: Facility designed for removal of dangerous,
deleterious or prohibited matter from the waste stream by differential gravity
separation (i.e., grease traps and/or catch basins).
GRAVITY SEWER: Sewer that flows by the force of gravity, generally operates
hydraulically as an open channel.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: A waste defined as hazardous by 40 CFR part 261.
HOUSE SEWER/HOUSE SERVICE CONNECTION: The sewer connecting the building
plumbing system to the public sewer for conveying domestic wastewater.
INDUSTRIAL SEWER/INDUSTRIAL SERVICE CONNECTION: The sewer connecting the
building plumbing system to the public sewer for conveying industrial
wastewater.
INDUSTRIAL USER: A source of discharge of wastewater into a POTW from any
source other than a domestic user.
INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER: Wastewater and water-borne wastes of the community,
excluding domestic wastewater and uncontaminated water, and includes all
wastewater from any production, manufacturing, processing, institutional,
commercial, agricultural or other operation where the wastes discharged include
significant quantities of wastes from nondomestic sources.
INTERCEPTOR SEWER: Public sewer which generally collects wastewater from
lateral sewers and transports it to another interceptor, pumping station or
treatment facility.
INTERFERENCE: A discharge, alone or in conjunction with discharges from other
sources, which:
   A.   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment process or operations, or
its sludge process, use or disposal; and/or
   B.   Causes a violation of any requirement of the POTW's NPDES permit
(including an increase in magnitude or duration of a violation) or prevents
sewage sludge use or disposal in accordance with section 405 of the act, or any
criteria, guidelines or regulations of EPA or IDNR.
LATERAL SEWER/COLLECTOR SEWER: Public sewer which generally collects wastewater
from house sewers and/or industrial sewers and transports it to an interceptor
sewer.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT: Mayor and city council of the city of Waterloo, Iowa.
MILLIGRAMS PER LITER (mg/l): Measure of concentration of a substance in a
liquid generally accepted to equal parts per million.
NPDES PERMIT (NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM): A permit issued
pursuant to section 402 of the act.
NEW SOURCE: Defined as in 40 CFR 403.3(k).
   A.   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there is
(or may be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under section 307(c)
of the Act which will be applicable to such source if such standards are
thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
      1.   The building, structure, facility, or installation is constructed at
a site at which no other source is located; or
      2.   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally replaces
the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of pollutants at
an existing source; or
      3.   The production or wastewater generating processes of the building,
structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of an
existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
   B.   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located results
in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not create
a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the criteria of
subsection A2 or A3 of this definition but otherwise alters, replaces, or adds
to existing process or production equipment.
   C.   Construction of a "new source" as defined under this section has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
      1.   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
a. Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or equipment; or
b. Significant site preparation work including clearing, excavation, or removal
of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which is necessary for the
placement, assembly, or installation of new source facilities or equipment; or
      2.   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase of
facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation within a
reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or
modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering,
and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under this
definition.
POTW TREATMENT PLANT: Treatment works portion of the POTW.
PASS THROUGH: A discharge which exits the POTW into a water of the state in
quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any of the
requirements of the POTWs NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude
or duration of a violation) or other permit issued to the POTW by the IDNR or
USEPA.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, corporation, association, governmental
entity or other legal entity or their representative. The masculine gender
shall include the feminine and the singular shall include the plural, where
applicable.
pH: The negative logarithm of the hydrogen ion activity. Generally refers to a
measure of the acidity of a solution: pH 7 is neutral, pH >7 is alkaline and pH
<7 is acidic.
PLUMBING CODE: Plumbing code adopted by the city of Waterloo 2 .
PRETREATMENT: The reduction of pollutants or conditioning of the waste stream
to enhance treatability prior to discharge to the POTW for treatment.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer constructed for public use under the control of the city.
PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW): The system of public sewers, pumping
facilities and treatment facilities used to collect, convey and treat
wastewater and manage wastewater sludges which is owned, managed and regulated
by the city.
SANITARY SEWER: Sewer which is intended to transport wastewater and to which
storm sewage, surface water and ground water are not intentionally connected.
SEWER SYSTEM: A network of wastewater collection, conveyance, pumping,
treatment and disposal facilities connected with sewers and owned and
controlled by the city.
SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER: An industrial user meeting any of the following
criteria:
   A.   Discharges more than twenty five thousand (25,000) gallons per day of
process wastewater.
   B.   Discharges a process wastewater which makes up five percent (5%) or
more of the hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW.
   C.   Is designated as significant by the superintendent because the
discharge may adversely affect the operation of the POTW or for violating any
pretreatment requirement.
   D.   Any industrial user subject to categorical pretreatment standards.
SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE: A. Chronic violations of wastewater discharge
limits, defined here as those in which sixty six percent (66%) or more of all
of the measurements taken for the same pollutant parameter during a six (6)
month period exceed (by any magnitude) a numeric pretreatment standard or
requirement, including instantaneous limits, as defined by 40 CFR section 403.3
(l);
   B.   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those in
which thirty three percent (33%) or more of all of the measurements taken for
the same pollutant parameter during a six (6) month period equal or exceed the
product of the numeric pretreatment standard or requirement including
instantaneous limits, as defined by 40 CFR section 403.3(l), multiplied by the
applicable TRC (TRC = 1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oil and grease, and 1.2 for all
other pollutants except pH);
   C.   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement as
defined by 40 CFR section 403.3(l) (daily maximum, long term average,
instantaneous limit, or narrative standard) that the superintendent determines
has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or
pass-through (including endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general
public);
   D.   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment to
human health, welfare or to the environment, or has resulted in the
superintendent's exercise of its emergency authority under 40 CFR section 403.8
(f)(1)(vi)(B) to halt or prevent such a discharge;
   E.   Failure to meet, within ninety (90) days after the schedule date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a wastewater discharge permit or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance;
   F.   Failure to provide within forty five (45) days after the due date,
required reports such as baseline monitoring reports, ninety (90) day
compliance reports, periodic self-monitoring reports, and reports on compliance
with compliance schedules;
   G.   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
   H.   Any other violation or group of violations, which may include a
violation of best management practices, which the superintendent determines
will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment
program.
SLUDGE; BIOSOLIDS: Solids, semisolids, residues and/or precipitates that result
from the treatment of wastewater.
SLUG: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste to the wastewater
treatment facilities which in concentration of any given constituent or in
quantity of flow exceeds for any period of time more than five (5) times the
average twenty four (24) hour concentration or flows during normal operation
and which adversely affects the performance of such facilities.
STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC): A classification of industrial
facilities in accordance with the standard industrial classification manual
issued by the office of management and budget.
STATE: State of Iowa.
SUPERINTENDENT: The superintendent of the city's waste management services
department or his designated representative.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS): Solids that float on the surface or are in suspension in
wastewater which can be removed through standard laboratory filtering.
TOTAL KJELDAHL NITROGEN (TKN): Measure of nitrogen in wastewater determined in
a laboratory by measuring ammonia after digesting organic nitrogen to convert
it to ammonia nitrogen.
TOXIC POLLUTANT: Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic in
regulations promulgated by the environmental protection agency.
USER CHARGE: Rates, charges and fees charged to contributors for use of the
POTW.
WASTEWATER COLLECTION SYSTEM: Network of sewers and pumping stations which
collect wastewater from individual building sewers and convey it to the
treatment facilities.
WASTEWATER, SEWAGE: Combination of waterborne wastes from residences,
businesses, institutions and industrial facilities, along with groundwater and
surface runoff that may be present, which is discharged to the POTW.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES; WATER POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITIES: A system
of unit processes which function to reduce pollutant loadings through physical,
chemical and/or biological processes. (Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997; amd. Ord. 4482, 5-
29-2001; Ord. 5267, 3-2-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 400 CFR 403.6, 405-471.
2 1. See title 9, chapter 4 of this code.
8-3-4: ADMINISTRATION:
The POTW is under the authority, management and control of the city of Waterloo
who shall employ a full time superintendent of the waste management services
department and other employees as are necessary for the operation and
maintenance of the POTW and the administrative activities incidental thereto.
(Ord. 4482, 5-29-2001)
8-3-5: SUPERINTENDENCE:
   A.   Administrator: The superintendent of the waste management services
department shall be the administrator of the system and, as such, is empowered
to implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 4482, 5-29-2001)
   B.   Powers And Duties: The superintendent is hereby empowered to, either
directly or indirectly:
      1.   Supervise the implementation of this chapter.
      2.   Institute actions against all users violating this chapter and, with
the city attorney, institute necessary legal proceedings to prosecute
violations of this chapter and compel the prevention and abatement of
violations of this chapter or nuisances arising therefrom.
      3.   Review the plans for pretreatment equipment, submitted by users.
      4.   Make inspections and tests of existing and newly installed,
constructed, reconstructed or altered pretreatment equipment to determine
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
      5.   Investigate complaints of violations of this chapter and make
inspections and observations of discharges. Record such investigations,
complaints, inspections and observations.
      6.   Issue orders requiring compliance with this chapter.
      7.   Determine surcharges to be levied pursuant to this chapter.
      8.   Deny a permit for cause.
      9.   Perform other actions necessary or advisable for the management and
operation of the POTW and the enforcement of this chapter and other applicable
laws and regulations. (Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997)
8-3-6: PERMITS REQUIRED:
Permits are required for:
   A.   The construction of improvements and/or extensions that will contribute
to the POTW.
   B.   The discharge of any nondomestic user to the POTW if requested by the
administrator. (Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997)
8-3-7: CONSTRUCTION PERMITS:
   A.   Application: Applications for construction of sanitary sewer extensions
and/or improvements that connect to the Waterloo POTW shall be submitted to the
city engineer for approval. The application may be made concurrently with the
IDNR construction permit submittal, and shall include the appropriate IDNR
construction permit schedules and shall, at a minimum, include:
      1.   Owner's name, address and phone number; the project name; the
project location; the initial and future service areas; and the initial and
future estimated flows.
      2.   Plans and specifications which shall, at a minimum, conform to the
applicable standard specifications of the city.
      3.   Evidence that the project has been submitted to IDNR and/or other
regulatory agencies that may be appropriate.
      4.   Other information as may be required by the city engineer.
   B.   Construction: Construction of the proposed sanitary sewer extensions
and/or improvements shall not begin without the city engineer's approval.
Upon completion of the construction, the owner shall provide the city engineer
one copy of the "as constructed" drawings which shall identify pertinent
features of the project: pipe size, length, materials of construction,
structure locations, elevations, service line connection locations, utilities,
soil and ground water conditions and other information that may be requested by
the city engineer.
   C.   Inspections: The city reserves the right to inspect the work while in
progress or upon completion, including internal inspection. If it is found that
the project is improperly constructed, improperly used or maintained which, in
turn, causes extraneous flows to enter the POTW, creates a flow restriction,
affects the structural integrity of the POTW or in any way impacts the POTW or
other city facilities, the city engineer may give notice of the condition to
the owner and shall direct the condition be corrected. (Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997)
8-3-8: WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS:
8-3-8-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
All nondomestic users of the POTW which contribute either directly or
indirectly to the POTW may be required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit
from the city. Any violation of the terms and conditions of a wastewater
discharge permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and subjects the
wastewater discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in sections
8-3-12 through
8-3-21 of this chapter.
Obtaining a wastewater discharge permit does not relieve a permittee of its
obligation to comply with all federal, state or local laws.
The wastewater discharge permit may require pretreatment of industrial
wastewaters prior to discharge to the POTW, flow equalization to reduce peak
flows, discharge of certain wastes only to specific sewers, relocation of
discharge points, prohibition of certain discharges, restriction of some
discharges to specific hours of the day, payment of additional charges to
defray costs that may be related to specific discharges and other conditions
that may be needed to implement activities consistent with the intent of this
chapter.
No person shall discharge wastewater to the POTW in excess of the quantity or
quality limits established in the wastewater discharge permit. Any person
desiring to discharge wastewater or use facilities which do not conform to the
permit should apply to the city for an amended permit.
A schedule for complying with permit requirements, effluent limits, self-
monitoring requirements or other requirements deemed necessary by the
superintendent shall be submitted to the city for approval by the nondomestic
user in a time frame established by the superintendent. The superintendent may
require compliance schedule progress reports, a report on final compliance with
effluent limits and standards, and periodic reports on continued compliance.
The superintendent may require a nondomestic user to submit to compliance
independent of a compliance schedule. (Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997)
8-3-8-2: PERMIT APPLICATION PROCEDURES:
   A.   General Permit Requirements: All nondomestic users of the POTW may be
required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit. Application procedure for the
permit shall be initiated by the nondomestic user who, upon notification by the
superintendent, shall provide the following information:
      1.   Name, address and location, if different from the address.
      2.   Authorized representative.
      3.   SIC code according to "Standard Industrial Classification Manual",
bureau of the budget, 1987, as amended.
      4.   Description of the operation and primary activities associated with
wastewater production.
      5.   Time and hours of operation and/or wastewater discharge.
      6.   General description of the wastewater discharge characteristics,
including the nature and concentration of any known pollutants in the
discharge.
      7.   Spill prevention plans in place.
      8.   Priority pollutant information.
      9.   Any other information that the superintendent may deem appropriate
to evaluate the permit application.
The superintendent shall determine from the information supplied whether the
nondomestic user can be granted a general wastewater discharge permit for the
classification of its discharge or whether a specific discharge permit shall be
required.
   B.   Individual Permit Requirements: All significant industrial users (SIUs)
and all other discharges to the POTW determined by the superintendent to have
significant potential impact on the POTW shall be required to apply for an
individual wastewater discharge permit. Dischargers requiring an individual
permit shall submit, at least ninety (90) days prior to connecting to or
contributing to the POTW, a permit application/baseline monitoring report
providing the following information to the city along with the appropriate
permit application fee:
      1.   Name, address and location, if different from the address, and the
authorized representative.
      2.   Primary SIC number according to the "Standard Industrial
Classification Manual", bureau of the budget, 1987, as amended.
      3.   List the environmental control permits held by or for the user.
      4.   General description of activities which may result in discharges to
the POTW.
      5.   Each product produced, by type and amount.
      6.   Number and type of employees and hours of operation of plant and
proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system.
      7.   Show all sewers, sewer connections, testing places and provide site
plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans when available.
      8.   Average daily and estimated peak wastewater flow rates, including
daily, monthly and seasonal variations, if any.
      9.   Time and duration of contribution. (Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997)
      10.   Wastewater constituents and characteristics as determined by a
certified analytical laboratory. Sampling and analysis shall be performed in
accordance with procedures established by the EPA pursuant to section 304(g) of
the act and contained in 40 CFR, part 136, and 40 CFR section 403.12 as
amended, and all reports shall comply with the requirements of said
regulations.
Where 40 CFR, part 136, does not include a sampling or analytical technique for
the pollutant in question, sampling and analysis shall be performed in
accordance with the procedures set forth in the EPA publication, "Sampling And
Analysis Procedures For Screening Of Industrial Effluents For Priority
Pollutants", April 1977, and amendments thereto, or with any other sampling and
analytical procedures approved by the administrator. (Ord. 5267, 3-2-2015)
      11.   All pretreatment standards which apply to the user's discharge.
      12.   The nature and concentration of any pollutants in the discharge
which are limited by any federal or categorical pretreatment standards, and a
statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards are being met on
a consistent basis and, if not, whether additional operation and maintenance
and/or additional pretreatment is required for the user to meet applicable
pretreatment standards.
      13.   If additional pretreatment and/or operation and maintenance will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this
schedule for categorical pretreatment standards shall not be later than the
compliance date established for applicable pretreatment standards.
The following conditions shall apply to the schedule:
         a.   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards (e.g., hiring an engineer,
completing preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing contract for
major components, commencing construction, completing construction, etc.).
         b.   The schedule should be submitted to the superintendent for
approval.
         c.   Not later than fourteen (14) days following each date in the
schedule and the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress
report to the superintendent or pretreatment program manager including, as a
minimum, whether or not it complied with the increments of progress to be met
on such date and, if not, the date on which it expects to comply with this
increment of progress, the reason for delay and the steps being taken by the
user to return the construction to the schedule established. In no event shall
more than six (6) months elapse between such progress reports to the
superintendent or pretreatment program manager.
      14.   A statement reviewed by an authorized representative of the
industrial user and certified to by a qualified professional, indicating
whether pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if
not, whether additional operation and maintenance and/or additional
pretreatment is required for the industrial user to meet the pretreatment
standards and requirements.
      15.   A certification statement attesting to the validity of the
information supplied, signed by a representative of the permittee.
      16.   Any other information as may be deemed by the city to be necessary
to evaluate the permit application.
The city will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may require
additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of the data furnished,
the city may issue a wastewater discharge permit subject to terms and
conditions provided herein.
   C.   Discharge Permit Conditions: Wastewater discharge permits shall be
subject to all provisions of this chapter and all other applicable regulations,
user charges and fees established by the city. Permits may contain the
following as determined by the superintendent or pretreatment program manager:
      1.   A statement of the duration of the permit (in no case more than 5
years).
      2.   A statement of nontransferability without, at a minimum, prior
notification to the POTW and provision of a copy of the existing control
mechanism to the new owner or operator.
      3.   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to the POTW. (Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997)
      4.   Limits, including best management practices, on the average and
maximum wastewater concentration, mass or other measure of constituents or
properties based on categorical pretreatment standards, state law or local
limits. (Ord. 5267, 3-2-2015)
      5.   Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulations and equalization.
      6.   Requirements for installation of pretreatment technology, pollution
control or construction of appropriate containment devices designed to reduce,
eliminate or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW.
      7.   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill control
plans or special conditions, including management practices necessary to
adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated or nonroutine discharges.
      8.   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities.
      9.   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency of sampling, number, types and standards for tests and
reporting schedule.
      10.   Compliance schedules.
      11.   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports.
      12.   Requirements for maintaining and retaining records relating to
wastewater discharge as specified by the city and affording city access
thereto.
      13.   Requirements for notification to the city of any new introduction
of wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character
of the wastewater constituents being introduced into the POTW.
      14.   Requirements for notification to the city of any potential
problems, including slug loading.
      15.   Requirements for notification of accidental discharges.
      16.   Requirements for notification of an "upset" defined as an
exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and temporary
noncompliance with permitted pretreatment standards because of factors beyond
the reasonable control of the industrial user.
      17.   Requirements for notification of discharge of hazardous wastes.
      18.   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements and any applicable
compliance schedule.
      19.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the city to ensure
compliance with this section.
   D.   Permit Duration: Permits shall be renewable as directed by the
superintendent for a specified time period, not to exceed five (5) years.
Permits may be issued for a period less than one year or may be stated to
expire on a specific date. The user shall apply for permit reissuance a minimum
of ninety (90) days prior to the expiration of the user's permit. The terms and
conditions of the permit may be subject to modification by the city during the
term of the permit for cause. The user shall be informed of any proposed
changes in his permit at least thirty (30) days prior to the effective date of
change. Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable
time schedule for compliance.
   E.   Permit Modifications: Within nine (9) months of the promulgation of a
federal categorical pretreatment standard, the wastewater discharge permit of
the users subject to such standard shall be revised to require compliance with
such standard within the prescribed time frame. Where a user becomes subject to
a federal categorical pretreatment standard who has not previously submitted an
application for a wastewater discharge permit, the user shall apply for a
wastewater discharge permit within ninety (90) days after the promulgation of
the applicable federal categorical pretreatment standard.
   F.   Permit Transfer: Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a specific
operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned or transferred
or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises, or a new or changed
operation without the approval of the city. Any succeeding owner or user shall
also comply with the terms and conditions of the existing permit.
   G.   Permit Denial: A permit may be denied to any user whose discharge of
material to the POTW, whether shown upon application or determined after
inspection and testing conducted by the city, is not in conformity with this
section, or whose application is incomplete or does not comply with the permit
application/baseline monitoring report procedure. (Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997)
8-3-9: CAPACITY REQUIREMENTS:
No connection to the POTW nor increased flows and/or loadings from existing
connections shall be allowed unless there is sufficient unused hydraulic and
treatment capacity in the POTW for the additional wastewater. (Ord. 4261, 10-6-
1997)
8-3-10: CONFIDENTIALITY:
   A.   Information and data obtained from reports, questionnaires, permit
applications, permits and monitoring programs and from inspections shall be
available to the public or other governmental agency without restriction unless
the user specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction
of the city that the release of such information would divulge information,
processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets of
the user.
   B.   When requested by the user furnishing a report, portions of a report
which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public, except upon written request to
governmental agencies through the Freedom of Information Act for uses related
to this chapter, the national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES)
permit, state disposal system permit and/or the pretreatment program; provided,
however, that such portions of a report shall be available for use by EPA, the
state or any state agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings
involving the person furnishing the report. Data on wastewater constituents and
characteristics will not be recognized as confidential information. Information
accepted by the city as confidential shall not be transmitted to the general
public by the city until and unless a ten (10) day notification is given to the
user. (Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997)
8-3-11: FALSIFYING INFORMATION:
Any person who knowingly makes any false statements, representation or
certification in any application, record, report, plan or other document filed
or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter or wastewater discharge
permit, or who falsifies, tampers with or knowingly renders inaccurate any
monitoring device or method required under this chapter, shall, upon
conviction, be punished as provided in the general penalty in section
1-3-1 of this code. (Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997; amd. 2001 Code)
8-3-12: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
The superintendent may issue a notice of violation with or without an order
against any user deemed to be in violation of this chapter.
   A.   Service: The notice of violation shall be served upon the user either
by personal delivery or by first class mail addressed to the user, except that
an immediate cease and desist order may be written or oral, and may also be
served by telephone.
   B.   Content Of Notice Of Violation: The notice of violation shall specify
the following:
      1.   Date and time of issuance.
      2.   Date(s), time(s) and place(s) of violation, the nature of the
violation, the substances discharged, where ascertainable, and the volume of
the discharge, where applicable.
      3.   Reference to the pertinent section of this chapter under which the
violation is charged.
      4.   Reference to the pertinent section of this chapter establishing
penalties for the violation.
      5.   The right of the alleged violator to present to the superintendent
written explanations, information or other materials in answer to the notice of
violation, including any defenses.
   C.   Plan Of Correction: Within thirty (30) days of the notice, the user
shall submit a plan for the satisfactory correction of the problem to the city.
(Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997)
8-3-13: ORDERS:
   A.   Issued: Whenever the superintendent has determined that any user has
violated this chapter or other applicable laws or regulations which the city is
authorized to enforce, the superintendent may issue an order, with or without a
notice of violation and whether or not a notice of violation was previously
issued, to take actions deemed appropriate by the superintendent under the
circumstances.
   B.   Types Of Orders: The following orders may be issued by the
superintendent:
      1.   Immediate Cease And Desist: An order to immediately cease and desist
from discharging any wastewater or pollutant which presents or may present
imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or the
environment, or could cause interference with the operation of the POTW. The
order shall be final and in effect until a hearing, if requested, is concluded
and a final decision is made by the superintendent pursuant to this chapter.
      2.   Order To Show Cause: The superintendent may issue an order to show
cause why an order to cease discharge by a certain time and date or perform
other actions should not be issued. The order may contain conditions or
requirements as deemed appropriate by the superintendent, including, but not
limited to, a requirement to do the following:
         a.   Submit samples.
         b.   Install sampling or monitoring equipment.
         c.   Submit reports.
         d.   Permit access for inspection, sampling, tests, monitoring and
investigations.
         e.   Install, operate, upgrade and maintain pretreatment equipment.
         f.   Reduce or eliminate a discharge or pollutants in a discharge.
         g.   Payment of applicable fees.
      3.   Content Of Orders: Any order issued by the superintendent shall
contain the facts and reasons and grounds for its issuance, and the remedial
action ordered as well as the time within which such action shall be taken. No
such order shall be deemed insufficient, however, for inconsequential errors
and omissions in the facts and reasons and grounds for the order. Multiple
orders may be issued simultaneously or in combination as a single order by the
superintendent with respect to a single user. (Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997)
8-3-14: DISCONNECTION:
The superintendent may physically disconnect a user from the collection system
if the user violates any provision of a final order or an issued immediate
cease and desist order (whether final or not). (Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997)
8-3-15: RIGHT TO HEARING:
A hearing may be requested in writing by any user deeming itself aggrieved by
any notice of violation, order, surcharge or action on a permit by the
superintendent within thirty (30) calendar days after the notice of violation,
order, notice of a surcharge, or action on a permit has been served upon such
user. The request for a hearing shall be submitted to the superintendent in
writing and the superintendent shall provide written response outlining further
actions within thirty (30) days of receipt of the request for hearing. (Ord.
4261, 10-6-1997)
8-3-16: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Conditions For Revocation: Any user who violates this chapter, any
condition of its wastewater discharge permit, or any of the following, is
subject to having its permit revoked in accordance with the procedures of this
section: (Ord. 5267, 3-2-2015)
      1.   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
      2.   Failure of the user to report substantial changes in process
activity or in volume or character or pollutants being introduced into the POTW
at least ninety (90) days prior to such change;
      3.   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
      4.   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose
of inspection, monitoring or sampling;
      5.   Violation of permit conditions;
      6.   Violation or breach of any treatment agreement;
      7.   Failure to report an upset, failure and/or bypass of user's
pretreatment facilities;
      8.   Failure to pay fines, fees or sewer users charges;
      9.   Failure to follow enforcement orders or compliance of schedules;
      10.   Failure to correct a condition that impedes or alters the POTWs
ability to monitor the user's discharge or has the potential to cause
interference or pass-through.
   B.   Procedures For Revocation:
      1.   Any permit issued to a user pursuant to this section may be revoked
for any action which is subject to revocation under subsection A of this
section. No revocation shall be issued except upon notice delivered to the
users by mailing the notice in the regular mail at the address listed on the
wastewater discharge permit, a minimum of ten (10) days prior to the date set
for hearing before the superintendent or his designee. Such notice shall inform
the user of the time, date and place of the hearing, the purpose of the hearing
and shall set out the reasons therefor;
      2.   If, after having a hearing, the superintendent makes a finding based
on substantial evidence that action subject to revocation under subsection A of
this section, has occurred as alleged, the superintendent may suspend, continue
suspension of or revoke the permit; the determination of such action shall be
in the discretion of the superintendent and shall be dependent upon the
circumstances surrounding violations by the user of subsection A of this
section and their severity;
      3.   The decision of the superintendent to suspend, continue suspension
or to revoke the permit of a user whose discharge occurs within the city may be
appealed to the city council. The decision of the superintendent to suspend,
continue suspension or to revoke the permit of a user whose discharge occurs
within another constituent community may be appealed to the city council. In
order to appeal such decision, written notice of appeal must be filed with the
city clerk within three (3) days after receipt of the decision. Failure to file
such written notice of appeal shall constitute a waiver of right to appeal the
decision of the superintendent;
      4.   The notice of appeal shall state the grounds for such appeal and
shall be delivered personally or by certified mail to the city clerk. An appeal
hearing before the city council shall be scheduled at or before the next
regular city council meeting, if such notice is received by five o'clock (5:00)
P.M. on the Wednesday before the next regular city council meeting. If notice
is not received by the above designated time, the hearing will be scheduled at
or before the next following city council meeting, if notice is received within
three (3) days after receipt of the decision by the superintendent. The hearing
may be continued for good cause. The hearing shall be confined to the record
made before the superintendent and the arguments of the parties or the
representatives, but no additional evidence shall be taken. After such hearing,
the city council may affirm or reverse the order of the superintendent. Such
written decision shall be filed with the city clerk within three (3) days after
the hearing, or any continued session thereof;
      5.   A user whose permit has been revoked shall not be eligible for
another permit until thirty (30) days after the violating conditions have been
corrected to the satisfaction of the superintendent. (Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997)
8-3-17: LEGAL ACTION:
If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes or other wastes into the
city's wastewater disposal system contrary to the provisions of this chapter,
federal or state pretreatment requirements, or any order of the city, the city
attorney may commence an action for appropriate legal and/or equitable relief
in the court of this county. (Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997)
8-3-18: CONTINUING OFFENSE:
Each and every day, or portion thereof, of any violation of this chapter or a
use permit or a final order issued under this chapter by any user shall
constitute a separate and new violation by such user and shall be punishable as
herein provided for civil and criminal penalties. (Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997)
8-3-19: TERMINATION OF SERVICE:
   A.   When ordered by the city council or when fees and surcharges remain
unpaid ninety (90) days after having been billed, the following notice shall be
forwarded by registered mail, return receipt requested, certified mail, or
personal service to the occupants at the address of the building being served
by the city:
   NOTICE OF INTENT TO TERMINATE SERVICE
 
You are hereby notified that due to (insert reason for termination), the
wastewater service to the building located at (insert address) will be
terminated within thirty (30) days hereafter unless you have corrected the
above situation. Your service will be disconnected and your building will be
red-tagged as unfit for human occupancy on the thirty-fifth (35th) day after
date of this notice. Dated                          .
 
   WASTE MANAGEMENT
   SERVICES DEPARTMENT
   CITY OF WATERLOO, IOWA
 
   BY:                              
    Superintendent
   B.   The city hereby declares that it is against public policy for a
building to be occupied by human inhabitants which has been red-tagged by the
waste management services department after appropriate notice has been given
that the building is "a public nuisance and unfit for human occupancy".
   C.   In the event that such user fails to correct the cause for the above
notice, the following notice shall be forwarded by registered mail, return
receipt requested, certified mail, or personal service to the occupants of the
building and also affixed to the building or housing unit within a building:
   NOTICE OF TERMINATION
 
You are hereby notified that there has been no response to the Notice of Intent
to Terminate Service and the thirty (30) day period stated therein has lapsed.
You are hereby notified that on (here insert date five days after service of
this notice), the city will physically disconnect the building sewer to your
building from the sewage system to which it is connected and will red-tag the
building located at (here insert address) as "unfit for human occupancy."
Dated                           .
 
   WASTE MANAGEMENT
   SERVICES DEPARTMENT
   CITY OF WATERLOO, IOWA
BY:                                
       Superintendent
   D.   The manner of severance and procedure for disconnection shall be
determined by the waste management services department. Upon completion of said
disconnection, the administrator shall forward to the occupant of the building
by registered mail, return receipt requested, certified mail, or personal
service a bill for the cost of making the disconnection, including all costs
for labor and materials and a one hundred dollar ($100.00) service charge for
city supervision. (Ord. 4482, 5-29-2001)
8-3-20: REINSTATEMENT OF SERVICE:
In the event of severance of service under sections
8-3-14,
8-3-16 and
8-3-19 of this chapter, the service may be reinstated in the following manner:
   A.   Upon payment to the city of any delinquency in full, plus penalties,
plus the cost of the disconnection and the one hundred dollar ($100.00) city
supervision fee, and an inspection by the administrator to determine whether
the original cause for termination has been corrected, the city will issue a
permit for reconnection of the building service line to the POTW. Such
reconnection costs, plus inspection fees for the city in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, shall be at the sole expense of the user.
   B.   Upon reconnection and payment of all costs described above, the city,
through its agents, shall remove the red tag from the building and the building
shall, so far as the city is concerned, be "fit for human occupancy". (Ord.
4261, 10-6-1997)
8-3-21: ADDITIONAL REMEDIES:
   A.   In addition to remedies available to the city set forth elsewhere in
this chapter, if the city is notified of a violation or fined by the IDNR or
USEPA for violations of the city NPDES permit or violations of water quality
standards as the result of a discharge of pollutants by identifiable user(s),
then the fine, including all city legal, sampling, analytical testing, costs
and any other related costs shall be charged to the responsible user(s). Such
charge shall be in addition to any other remedies the city may have under this
chapter, at law or in equity.
   B.   If the discharge from any user results in a deposition, obstruction,
damage or other impairment to the POTW, the user shall become liable to the
city for any expense, loss or damage caused by the violations or discharge. The
city may add to the user's charges and fees the cost assessed for any cleaning
or repair, or replacement work caused by the violations or discharge. (Ord.
4261, 10-6-1997)
8-3-22: PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
   A.   Violations, Public Nuisance: Violations of this chapter, a permit or a
final order are hereby declared to constitute a public nuisance.
   B.   Surcharges: In addition to prosecution and the imposition of penalties
for violations, a user violating this chapter, a permit or a final order shall
be subject to one or more surcharges in accordance with this chapter.
   C.   Civil Judicial Relief: The superintendent is hereby empowered, with the
city attorney, to institute legal proceedings in a court of competent
jurisdiction of the abatement of any nuisance, and to seek relief for
violations of this chapter, a use permit or a final order. The superintendent
may seek temporary or permanent injunctive relief, damages, civil penalties not
to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per day per violation, costs and
such other relief as a court may order. The superintendent may also seek
collection of unpaid surcharges and penalties from the user.
   D.   Cumulative Remedies: The imposition of a single penalty, order, damage
or surcharge upon a user for a violation of this chapter, a permit or a final
order shall not preclude the imposition by a court of competent jurisdiction of
a combination of any or all of the sanctions and remedies or additional
sanctions and remedies with respect to the same violation, consistent with
applicable statutory limitations. A criminal citation and prosecution of a
criminal action against a user shall not be dependent upon or held in abeyance
during any civil, judicial or city administrative proceeding, conference or
hearing regarding the user. (Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997)
   E.   Criminal Penalties: Any user who is found to have violated an order of
the city council or who wilfully or negligently failed to comply with any
provision of this chapter and the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued
hereunder, shall be punished by a fine as provided in the general penalty in
section
1-3-1 of this code for each offense. Each day on which a violation shall occur
or continue shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense. In addition to the
penalties provided herein, the city may recover reasonable attorney fees, court
costs, court reporter fees and other expenses of litigation by appropriate suit
at law against the person found to have violated this chapter or the orders,
rules, regulations and agreements issued hereunder. (Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997; amd.
2001 Code)
ARTICLE A. USER CHARGES AND FEES
SECTION:
8-3A-1: Wastewater Volume
8-3A-2: Determination Of Rates And Charges
8-3A-3: Charges And Fees
8-3A-4: Connection Charges
8-3A-4-1: Building Sewer Connection Charges; Determination
8-3A-4-2: Cross And Lateral Sewer Connection Charges
8-3A-4-3: Use Of Sewer Connection Charges
8-3A-4-4: Permitted Connections
8-3A-4-5: Violations And Penalties
8-3A-1: WASTEWATER VOLUME:
   A.   For purposes of establishing user charges, the quantity of wastewater
discharged to the POTW by a user shall be determined by and held to be the
quantity of water used based on water meter readings of the waterworks or
private water supply unless otherwise approved by the Superintendent. If a user
shall use water which comes from a private water supply, the user shall meter
the water at his own expense when required by the Superintendent and shall pay
the appropriate user charges.
   B.   All charges and fees not otherwise provided for in this article shall
be set by resolution. (Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997)
8-3A-2: DETERMINATION OF RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Each connection to the POTW shall pay user charges in accordance with
the following schedule:
      2.   Users who have their own private wells shall pay a minimum sixty-
three dollars twenty seven cents ($63.27) per quarter, unless required to
properly meter wastewater flows by the Superintendent.
      2.   Users who have their own private wells shall pay a minimum of fifty
three dollars eighty three cents ($53.83) per quarter, unless required to
properly meter wastewater flows by the Superintendent.
      3.   Users who are located outside of the limits of the City shall pay
double the rates specified herein, unless an agreement has been reached and
signed between the City of Waterloo and the contributing municipality or
entity.
      4.   If the rates as specified in this section are not paid when due as
required by this section, there shall be added to the rates a penalty of five
percent (5%). The Clerk shall certify to the County Treasurer all sewer rates,
charges or rentals and penalties delinquent.
      5.   A surcharge for wastewaters in excess of domestic strength and
containing no such chemical or other substances as would interfere with the
proper operation of the purifying plant, shall be computed according to the
following formula:
 
BOD - $0.10/pound
TSS - 0.10/pound
TKN - 0.10/pound
 
      6.   The following sewer rental charge shall become effective beginning
August 1, 2024:
 
Minimum monthly charge1               $21.09
Minimum quarterly charge2             $63.27
Per Ccf. over minimum monthly charge3 $3.38
      Notes:
         1.   Includes first 3 Ccf.
         2.   Includes first 9 Ccf.
         3.   Ccf = 100 cubic feet of metered water used or metered wastewater
discharge if provided in permit.
      7.   Effective August 1, 2024, sewer users with flow exceeding eight
hundred million (800,000,000) gallons per year are eligible for the following
rates:
 
 
Minimum monthly charge               $21.09 (includes first Ccf.)
Per Ccf. over minimum monthly charge $2.70
 
   (Ccf = 100 cubic feet of metered water used or metered wastewater discharge
if provided in permit) Rates will be increased by the same applicable amount
that rates under subsection A6 of this section are increased.
(Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997; amd. Ord. 4482, 5-29-2001; Ord. 4699, 6-14-2004; Ord.
5091, 1-30-2012; Ord. 5287, 6-8-2015; Ord. 5472, 11-13-2018; Ord. 5558, 6-1-
2020; Ord. 5603, 6-7-2021; Ord. 5645, 5-16-2022; Ord. 5702, 5-15-2023; Ord.
5769, 7-1-2024)
8-3A-3: CHARGES AND FEES:
   A.   Charges And Fees: The city may adopt charges and fees, which may
include:
      1.   Fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the
city's pretreatment program.
      2.   Fees for monitoring, testing, inspections and surveillance
procedures.
      3.   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and construction.
      4.   Fees for permit applications.
      5.   Fees for filing appeals.
      6.   Fees to specific contributing industrial users for consistent
removal, by the city, of pollutants otherwise subject to federal categorical
pretreatment standard.
      7.   Other fees as the city may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein.
These fees relate solely to the matters identified above and are separate from
all other fees chargeable by the city.
   B.   City's Scheduling Of Charges And Fees:
      1.   A surveillance monitoring fee of three hundred fifty dollars
($350.00) per installation of equipment shall be assessed against each user for
which the city, rather than the user, installs surveillance monitoring
equipment for the purpose of conducting wastewater sampling.
      2.   A sampling fee of one hundred thirty dollars ($130.00) per site
visit for the purpose of wastewater sample collection shall be assessed against
each user.
      3.   Fees for investigating accidental discharges shall be based on the
time expended at twenty three dollars ($23.00) per hour.
      4.   Laboratory testing fees shall be based on actual expenses incurred
for each parameter tested as specified in a fee schedule which the city shall
approve and issue from time to time.
      5.   A wastewater discharge permit application fee shall be assessed each
request for a wastewater discharge permit in the amount of twenty five dollars
($25.00). Wastewater discharge permit and/or permit renewal shall be assessed
in the amount of two hundred dollars ($200.00). An additional fee shall be
assessed in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for past due
applications.
      6.   An appeal filing fee shall be assessed in the amount of one hundred
dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997)
8-3A-4: CONNECTION CHARGES:
8-3A-4-1: BUILDING SEWER CONNECTION CHARGES; DETERMINATION:
The charge for making connection to an existing public sewer in the near
vicinity of a property for which it is desired that service be provided shall
be determined as follows:
   A.   Where the property to be served has been specifically assessed for the
sewer facilities prior to the time of the application for connection, there
shall be no additional connection charge, unless at the time of assessment a
deficiency was allowed. Then, the sewer connection charge shall be equal to the
deficiency previously allowed.
   B.   Where the property to be served has not been assessed or is not subject
to an assessment of a special tax for the construction of the sewer facilities
to which connection is sought and said sewer was built through assessments, the
connection charge shall be equal to the average front footage charge assessed
to all property on the sewer involved applied to the front footage of the
property to be served. Where the property has frontage on two (2) intersecting
streets, the footage to which the charge shall be applied shall be the one
considered the front in all usual proceedings for assessments. Where unusual
parcel shape would make the charge inequitable to the owner or to the city, the
frontage shall be taken as the lot width at the face of the building.
   C.   Where the property to be served has not been subject to assessment for
the cost of the public sewer, constructed before January 1, 1978, and the cost
thereof was paid by general taxation, the sewer connection charge shall be
calculated on the basis of five dollars fifty cents ($5.50) per front foot of
actual lot frontage, as hereinabove defined, plus fifty dollars ($50.00)
hookon.
   D.   Where the property to be served has not been subject to assessment for
the cost of the public sewer constructed after January 1, 1978, and before
January 1, 1982, and the cost thereof was paid by general taxation, the sewer
connection charge shall be calculated on the basis of fifteen dollars ($15.00)
per front foot of actual lot frontage as hereinbefore defined or the actual
front footage construction cost (including engineering, real and administrative
charges) whichever charge is lesser, plus a hookon charge in the amount of two
hundred dollars ($200.00) per acre prorated to lesser portions of an acre with
a minimum hookon charge of fifty dollars ($50.00) per hookon.
   E.   Where the property to be served has not been subject to assessment for
the cost of the public sewer constructed after January 1, 1982, and the cost
thereof was paid by general taxation, the sewer connection charge shall be
calculated on the basis of the actual front footage construction cost
(including engineering, real and administrative charges), plus a hookon charge
in the amount of two hundred dollars ($200.00) per acre prorated to lesser
portions of an acre with a minimum hookon charge of fifty dollars ($50.00) per
hookon. (Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997)
   F.   The subject matter of this section is legally described as follows:
Property lying within the North One-half (1/2) of the Northwest Quarter (1/4)
of Section 14, Township 88, Range 13 West, City of Waterloo, Black Hawk County,
Iowa, except right-of-way of E. Shaulis Road and Hammond Avenue (hereinafter
"described property").
All "described property" not currently assessed for the cost of the public
sewer which proposes to be served by the public sewer or any extension of the
public sewer shall be assessed a hookon charge at the rate of one thousand one
hundred twenty four dollars sixty seven cents ($1,124.67) per acre. This hookon
charge shall be paid in full by the developer in lump sum within thirty (30)
days of the city council's acceptance of a subdivision final plat that is
within the "described property". The areas to be used for calculating the
hookon fee shall include the entire area of the subdivision, including street
rights of way, and any included or adjoining areas not used for residential or
commercial development, including, without limitation, ponds, lakes, and parks.
Any area not included in a subdivision final plat but that is a part of the
"described property" and which proposes to hook on to the public sewer or any
extension of it shall, at the time the property owner or user applies to hook
on to the public sewer or any extension of it, pay in full any lump sum it owes
to hook on to the public sewer or any extension of it. Hookon charges for
unplatted areas shall be determined by the size of the entire parcel being
served.
   G.   The provisions of the hookon charge provided for in this section shall
not apply to any property covered by a specific hookon charge ordinance. (Ord.
4469, 4-16-2001)
8-3A-4-2: CROSS AND LATERAL SEWER CONNECTION CHARGES:
Before a permit for a new cross or lateral sewer connection to a main sewer
shall be granted, the applicant shall have complied with the terms and
conditions for such connection established by the city council. Such terms and
conditions may include, but not be limited to, engineering design, construction
standards, requirements for inspection of construction of the applicant's
sewer, and the setting of equitable fees to be paid for the right to connect to
public sewer and all facilities to which the sewer will be contributory. (Ord.
4261, 10-6-1997)
8-3A-4-3: USE OF SEWER CONNECTION CHARGES:
Such charges shall be due without regard to whether the facilities involved,
trunk sewers or POTW have been paid for in full or whether prior assessments
and other resources will cover all costs for such facilities. Connection
charges shall be deemed a refund of amounts yet to be or previously paid by the
city from its funds for the additional service made available to the applicant.
(Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997)
8-3A-4-4: PERMITTED CONNECTIONS:
No building sewer connection shall be made to a public sanitary sewer which is
not in front of the property to be served unless the public sewer cannot
feasibly be extended and the building sewer can be connected without creating
difficulties for other utilities in the street or unless any such difficulties
are offset by a definite public advantage in having the connection. No building
sewer shall be connected directly into a manhole more than six inches (6")
above the flow line therein. Where a public sewer is extended by an applicant
at his own expense, it shall be constructed in accordance with the
specifications of the city for public sewers and connection charges may be
reduced by the cost thereof, in whole or in part. (Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997)
8-3A-4-5: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any person which shall make a connection without paying connection charges due
under this section
 8-3A-4 or in any manner violate the other terms of this section
8-3A-4 shall be, upon conviction, deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to
fine and imprisonment as provided by law. (Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997)
ARTICLE B. USE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-3B-1: Sewer Connections Required
8-3B-2: Accidental Discharge; Slug Control Plan
8-3B-3: Construction And Maintenance Of Interceptors
8-3B-4: Waste Received From Other Jurisdictions
8-3B-1: SEWER CONNECTIONS REQUIRED:
   A.   Connection Required: The owner of any house, building or property which
is used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, and
abutting on any street, alley or right of way in which the POTW is available,
is required, at the owner's expense, to install suitable wastewater disposal
facilities and to connect such facilities directly to the POTW in accordance
with the provisions of this article within ninety (90) days after date of
official notice to do so, provided that the POTW is within two hundred feet
(200') (61 m) of the property line, or otherwise required by the Black Hawk
County health department. All wastewater from such houses, buildings or
properties shall be discharged to the POTW. Any septic tanks, cesspools or
similar wastewater disposal facilities shall, upon connection to the POTW, be
emptied of wastes and refilled with suitable material to prevent collapse. This
shall not apply to any persons served by a privately owned, operated and
maintained wastewater sewer and wastewater treatment facility which discharges
directly to a natural outlet in accordance with the provisions of this article
and applicable state and federal laws.
   B.   Disconnection From Sewer: Whenever buildings are abandoned or
demolished, the building sewer(s) shall be disconnected from the public sewer
at the owner's expense, in a manner approved by the city, to adequately protect
the POTW.
   C.   Prohibitions: It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or
permit to be deposited in any manner that creates a hazard or threat to human
health or the environment upon public or private property within or under the
jurisdiction of the city, any wastes, wastewater, garbage or material
prohibited for discharge to the POTW.
   D.   Discharges To Natural Outlets: No person shall discharge without an
NPDES permit (or pursuant to an exemption from NPDES requirements under
applicable law) to any natural outlet within the city, or in any area under its
jurisdiction, either directly or through a city storm sewer.
   E.   Wastewater Disposal: Except as provided in this article, it shall be
unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool
or other facility intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
   F.   Further Requirements: No statement contained in this section shall be
construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by
health officials or other applicable authorities. (Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997)
8-3B-2: ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE; SLUG CONTROL PLAN:
   A.   Prevention: Each user shall have the responsibility to protect the POTW
from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other regulated substances
and from slug discharges. Where required by the superintendent, facilities to
prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials shall be provided and
maintained at the owner's or user's expense with detailed plans of such
facility available to the city for review and approval prior to construction.
Each industrial user shall notify the superintendent immediately of any change
at its facility affecting the potential for a slug discharge.
   B.   Spill/Slug Control Plan: The superintendent shall have the authority to
require any industrial user to submit a spill/slug control plan when in the
superintendent's judgment an accidental discharge or slug discharge from the
industrial user could potentially impact the POTW.
   C.   Plan Submittal: Each user, when required by the superintendent, shall
submit a spill/slug control plan to the city describing:
      1.   Discharge practices, including nonroutine batch discharges.
      2.   Chemical storage.
      3.   The procedure for immediate POTW notification of any accidental or
slug discharge.
      4.   The procedure to prevent adverse impact to the POTW from accidental
spills or slug discharges, including inspection and maintenance of storage
areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and unloading of operations,
control of plant site runoff, worker training, building of containment
structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic pollutants
(including solvents), and/or measures and equipment for emergency response.
   D.   Notice Of Incident; Written Report Required: In the case of an
accidental discharge or slug discharge, the user shall immediately telephone
and notify the POTW of the incident. The notification shall include location of
discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, and corrective action
pursued. Within five (5) days following an accidental discharge or slug
discharge, the user shall submit to the superintendent a detailed written
report describing the cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by
the user to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not
relieve the user of any expense, loss, damage or other liability which may be
incurred as a result of damage to the POTW, fish kills or any other damage to
persons or property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines,
civil penalties or other liability which may be imposed by this article or
other applicable law.
   E.   Emergency Notification Procedure: A notice shall be permanently posted
on the user's bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees whom
to call in the event of a dangerous, accidental, or slug discharge. Employers
shall ensure that all employees who may cause or suffer such a discharge to
occur are advised of the emergency notification procedure.
   F.   Penalties; Termination: If a user continues to create or experience
accidental or slug discharges, the superintendent shall have the authority to
seek penalties and/or terminate service to the habitual violator. (Ord. 5267,
3-2-2015)
8-3B-3: CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE OF INTERCEPTORS:
   A.   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand or other harmful constituents.
   B.   All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the city
and shall be located so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious
materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature.
Interceptors shall be of substantial construction, watertight and equipped with
easily removable covers which, when bolted in place, shall be gastight and
watertight.
   C.   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his expense, in continuous efficient operation at
all times. (Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997)
8-3B-4: WASTE RECEIVED FROM OTHER JURISDICTIONS:
   A.   If another municipality or governmental jurisdiction or user located
within another governmental jurisdiction contributes wastewater to the POTW,
the superintendent shall enter into an intergovernmental agreement with the
contributing governmental jurisdiction.
   B.   The following information will be supplied by user or the contributing
governmental jurisdiction:
      1.   Description of the quality and volume of wastewater discharged to
the POTW.
      2.   Inventory of all users located within the contributing jurisdiction
that are discharging to the POTW.
      3.   Any information the superintendent may deem necessary.
   C.   The intergovernmental agreement shall contain the following conditions:
      1.   A requirement for the contributing jurisdiction to adopt a sewer use
ordinance which is at least as stringent as this article and contains as
stringent local limits.
      2.   A requirement to submit a revised user inventory on at least an
annual basis or as changes occur.
      3.   Provisions specifying which pretreatment implementation activities
will be conducted by the contributing jurisdiction.
      4.   A requirement for contributing jurisdiction to provide all
information that the contributing jurisdiction obtains as part of its
pretreatment activities.
      5.   Limits on the nature, quality and volume of the contributing
jurisdiction's wastewater at the point where it discharges to the POTW.
      6.   Requirements for monitoring the contributing jurisdiction's
discharge.
      7.   Provisions ensuring access to the facilities of users located within
the contributing jurisdictional boundaries for the purpose of inspection,
sampling and other duties deemed necessary.
      8.   Provisions specifying remedies available for breach of the terms of
the intergovernmental agreement. (Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997)
ARTICLE C. DISCHARGES INTO SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-3C-1: Prohibited Discharges
8-3C-1-1: General Discharge Prohibitions
8-3C-1-2: Dilution Of Discharges
8-3C-1-3: Specific Limits
8-3C-1-4: Hospital, Medical Wastes
8-3C-1-5: Limit Of Authority
8-3C-2: Industrial Waste Discharges
8-3C-3: Pretreatment Requirements
8-3C-3-1: Pretreatment
8-3C-3-2: Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standards
8-3C-3-3: Specific Pollutant Limits
8-3C-3-4: City's Right To Revision
8-3C-3-5: Monitoring Facilities
8-3C-3-6: Inspection And Sampling
8-3C-3-7: Reporting And Recordkeeping Requirements
8-3C-1: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES:
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged, either directly or
indirectly, any wastewater which, in the opinion of the superintendent, may
have any harmful effect on the sewer system, POTW personnel or equipment,
effluent quality, sludge quality, public or private property, or may otherwise
endanger the public, the POTW, the environment or create a public nuisance. The
superintendent, in reviewing the acceptability of specific wastewaters, shall
consider the characteristics of the wastewater and the adequacy and
characteristics of the POTW to accept the wastewater. (Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997)
8-3C-1-1: GENERAL DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS:
No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or indirectly,
any pollutant or wastewater which will interfere with the operation or
performance of the POTW. These general prohibitions apply to all such users of
a POTW whether or not the user is subject to national categorical pretreatment
standards or any other national, state or local pretreatment standards or
requirements. A user may not contribute the following substances to a POTW:
   A.   Any liquids, solids or gases with a closed cup flashpoint of less than
one hundred forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F) (60°C) using test methods
referenced in 40 CFR 261.21 or which, by reason of their nature or quantity,
are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other substances
to cause fire or explosion hazard or be injurious in any other way to the POTW
or to the operation of the POTW. At no time shall two (2) successive readings
on an explosimeter at any point in the system be more than five percent (5%)
nor any single reading over ten percent (10%) of the lower explosive limit
(LEL) of the meter.
   B.   Solid or viscous substances which may cause obstruction to the flow in
a sewer or other interference with the POTW.
   C.   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or higher than 9.0, or
wastewater having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or
hazard to structures, equipment and/or personnel of the POTW.
   D.   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to injure or interfere
with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or
animals, create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the POTW, or to
exceed the limit set forth in a categorical pretreatment standard. A toxic
pollutant shall include, but not be limited to, any pollutant identified
pursuant to section 307(a) of the act.
   E.   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which either singly
or by interaction with other wastes are sufficient to create a public nuisance
or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers for
maintenance and repair.
   F.   Any substance which may cause the POTW's effluent or any other product
of the POTW, such as residues, sludges or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case
shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be out of compliance
with sludge use or disposal criteria, guidelines or regulations.
   G.   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES and/or
state disposal system permit or the receiving water quality standards.
   H.   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the treatment
process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions.
   I.   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW resulting in interference. Wastewater with a temperature
at the introduction to the POTW which exceeds forty degrees Celsius (40°C)
(104°F) unless the POTW is designed to accommodate such temperature.
   J.   Any pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.)
released at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which a user knows or
has reason to believe will cause interference to the POTW. Industry shall
coordinate with the POTW for the discharge of any slug load which may have the
potential to cause interference with the POTW.
   K.   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such
half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the
superintendent in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
   L.   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral oil
origin in amounts that will cause interference with POTW processes or pass
through to the receiving waters.
   M.   Any wastewater which causes a hazard to human life or creates a public
nuisance. (Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997)
8-3C-1-2: DILUTION OF DISCHARGES:
No user shall ever increase the use of process water for the purposes of
attempting to dilute or to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete
substitute for adequate treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations
contained in the federal categorical pretreatment standards or in any other
pollutant-specific limitation developed by the city or state. (Ord. 4261, 10-6-
1997)
8-3C-1-3: SPECIFIC LIMITS:
   A.   When the superintendent determines that a user(s) is contributing to
the POTW any of the above substances in such amounts as to interfere with the
operation of the POTW, the superintendent shall:
      1.   Advise the user(s) of the impact of the contribution on the POTW;
and
      2.   Develop effluent limitation(s) for such user to correct the
interference with the POTW.
In most cases, the concentration or amount of any particular constituent which
will be considered excessive will depend upon the results of technical
determinations and regulatory agency regulations. The list of constituents
herein provides specific limits where they are reasonably well established.
Limits and/or constituents to be subject to limits in the future are subject to
change based on POTW impacts, technical determinations and regulatory
requirements.
   B.   Specific local limits for pollutants to be allowed in the discharge to
the Waterloo water pollution control facility are developed using a mass
balance approach across the treatment process.
Specific pollutant loading limitations are based on the most stringent criteria
depending upon:
      1.   Concentration causing interference.
      2.   Concentration causing pass through in violation of water quality
standards.
      3.   Concentration causing sludge criteria to violate low-rate land
application criteria.
Removal rates will be factored into the analyses for computing the local limits
to establish mass loadings allowed of each individual pollutant.
The WPCF will periodically review the plant removal efficiencies on a unit-by-
unit basis and may periodically revise the allowable pollutant loadings due to
additional data collection, regulations or pollutants of concern.
Where specific pollutant removal rates (for a particular treatment process)
cannot be determined at the Waterloo WPCF, default values from the IDNR and EPA
will be used to develop the limits. These too may be revised by additional
plant evaluation, data collection and regulations. (Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997)
8-3C-1-4: HOSPITAL, MEDICAL WASTES:
Regulated facilities, including hospitals, clinics, offices of medical doctors
and other personnel, mortuaries, morgues and long term healthcare facilities,
may discharge to the sanitary sewer through a grinder installation if approved
by the superintendent. The installation shall be constructed and operated such
that all materials pass through a maximum three-eighths inch (3/8") mesh
opening.
No user shall discharge any of the following materials to the sewer system
either directly or indirectly:
   A.   Solid wastes generated in the rooms of patients who are isolated
because of a suspected or diagnosed communicable disease.
   B.   Recognizable portions of the human anatomy.
   C.   Equipment, instruments, utensils and other materials of a disposable
nature that may harbor or transmit pathogenic organisms and that are used in
the rooms of patients having a suspected or diagnosed communicable disease
which, by the nature of the disease, is required to be isolated by public
health agencies.
   D.   Wastes excluded by other provisions of this article. (Ord. 4261, 10-6-
1997)
8-3C-1-5: LIMIT OF AUTHORITY:
Nothing in this section
8-3C-1 shall be construed to limit the authority of the waste management
services department, Black Hawk County health department or other health
authorities to define wastes as being infectious and, with the concurrence of
the superintendent, to require that they will not be discharged to the POTW.
(Ord. 4482, 5-29-2001)
8-3C-2: INDUSTRIAL WASTE DISCHARGES:
   A.   Permit Required: All nondomestic waste dischargers to the POTW may be
required to obtain a permit.
   B.   Issuance: Permits will be authorized by the superintendent under the
direction of the city council.
   C.   Conditions Of Permit: Industrial user categories, discharge quantities,
loadings and potential to impact the POTW shall be factors in issuance of the
permit. (Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997)
   D.   Conformance Required: The industrial user shall be responsible for
conforming to the requirements of the permit, including, but not limited to,
best management practices, and shall promptly report to the superintendent any
changes which could result in the need to modify the permit to have an effect
on the discharge from the industrial user. (Ord. 5267, 3-2-2015)
   E.   Report Violations: Industrial users shall immediately report any
violations of the permit to the POTW. (Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997)
8-3C-3: PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS:
8-3C-3-1: PRETREATMENT:
   A.   Requirements: Users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as
required to comply with this article and shall achieve compliance with all
federal categorical pretreatment standards and schedules where applicable. Any
facilities required to pretreat wastewater to a level acceptable to the city
shall be provided, operated and maintained at the user's expense. Detailed
plans showing the pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be
submitted to the city for review and shall be acceptable to the city before
construction of the facility. The review of such plans and operating procedures
will in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the
facility as necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the city under the
provisions of this article. Any subsequent changes in the industrial activity
or pretreatment facilities or method of operation, which affects quality or
quantity of discharge, shall be reported to and be acceptable to the city prior
to the users initiating such changes. (Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997)
   B.   Noncompliance; Standards: The city shall annually publish, in the
largest daily newspaper published in the municipality where the POTW is
located, a list of the users which, during the previous twelve (12) months,
were in significant noncompliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements. (Ord. 5267, 3-2-2015)
   C.   Records: All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards
shall be made available to officials of the IDNR or the EPA upon request. (Ord.
4261, 10-6-1997)
8-3C-3-2: FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Supersede Municipal Standards: Upon the promulgation of the federal
categorical pretreatment standards for a particular industrial subcategory, the
federal standard, if more stringent than limitations imposed under this article
for sources in that subcategory, shall immediately supersede the limitations
imposed under this article. The superintendent shall notify all affected users
of the applicable reporting requirements under 40 CFR section 403.12.
   B.   Modifications: Where the city's wastewater treatment system achieves
consistent removal of pollutants limited by federal pretreatment standards, the
city may apply to the approval authority for modification of specific limits in
the federal pretreatment standards. "Consistent removal" shall mean reduction
in the amount of a pollutant or alteration of the nature of the pollutant by
the wastewater treatment system to a less toxic or harmless state in the
effluent which is achieved by the system in ninety five percent (95%) of the
samples taken when measured according to the procedures set forth in section
403.7(c)(2) of title 40 of the code of federal regulations, "General
Pretreatment Regulations For Existing And New Sources Of Pollution" promulgated
pursuant to the act. The city may then modify pollutant discharge limits in the
federal pretreatment standards if the requirements contained in 40 CFR section
403.7 are fulfilled and prior approval from the approval authority is obtained.
(Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997)
8-3C-3-3: SPECIFIC POLLUTANT LIMITS:
   A.   The total wastewater discharge of all users, in combination with
domestic users, shall not contain pollutants in such mass and/or concentration
which shall cause the POTW to be in violation of the intent of the pretreatment
program. Such limits shall be established by the latest edition of the
industrial waste pretreatment program adopted by the city council and allocated
to various dischargers through the permit process.
   B.   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any
case where they are more stringent than federal requirements. (Ord. 4261, 10-6-
1997)
8-3C-3-4: CITY'S RIGHT TO REVISION:
The city reserves the right to establish more stringent limitations or
requirements on discharges to the POTW if deemed necessary. (Ord. 4261, 10-6-
1997)
8-3C-3-5: MONITORING FACILITIES:
   A.   The city shall require to be provided and operated at the user's own
expense monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling and flow
measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage systems. The
monitoring facility should normally be situated on the user's premises, but the
city may, when such a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on
the user, allow the facility to be constructed in the public street or sidewalk
area and located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked
vehicles.
   B.   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or facility
to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The
facility, sampling and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in
a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
   C.   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the city's
requirements and all applicable local construction standards and
specifications. Construction shall be completed within ninety (90) days
following written notification by the city. (Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997)
8-3C-3-6: INSPECTION AND SAMPLING:
   A.   The city shall inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain whether
the purpose of this article is being met and all requirements are being
complied with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the city or its representative ready access at all times
to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, random sampling,
records examination and copying, or in the performance of any of their duties.
The city shall have the right to set up on the user's property such devices as
are necessary to conduct sampling inspection, compliance monitoring and/or
metering operations. Where a user has security measures in force which would
require proper identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the
user shall make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that upon
presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the city will be
permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of performing their
specific responsibilities. The city has the right to randomly sample industry
without notification of the sample taking.
   B.   While on the user's property, the authorized representatives of the
city shall observe all reasonable safety rules applicable to the premises
established by the user.
   C.   Inspections by state or federal representatives shall not relieve a
user from inspection by city representatives nor shall inspection by city
representatives relieve a user from compliance with inspection by state or
federal representatives. (Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997)
8-3C-3-7: REPORTING AND RECORDKEEPING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Compliance Reports: Within ninety (90) days following the date for
final compliance with applicable pretreatment standards or, in the case of a
new source, following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the
POTW, any user subject to pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit
to the superintendent a report indicating the nature and concentration of all
pollutants in the discharge from the regulated process which are limited by
pretreatment standards and requirements and the average and maximum daily flow
for these process units in the user facility which are limited by such
pretreatment standards or requirements. The report shall state whether the
applicable pretreatment standards or requirements are being met on a consistent
basis and, if not, what additional operation and maintenance and/or
pretreatment is necessary to bring the user into compliance with the applicable
pretreatment standards or requirements. This statement shall be signed by an
authorized representative of the industrial user and certified to by a
qualified professional.
   B.   Periodic Reports: All industrial users required to have an individual
permit shall submit to the superintendent a report indicating all flows and the
nature and concentration of pollutants in the discharge from the industrial
user. The report shall also include a record of all daily flows and/or
pollutant loadings that exceeded the daily flow or pollutant loadings allowed
by the wastewater discharge permit. The superintendent has the right to require
reports as frequently as he deems necessary, but reports must be submitted at
least twice annually on dates determined by the superintendent. If a user is
subject to mass limitations, the report shall also indicate the mass of
regulated pollutants in the user's effluent.
   C.   Other Reports: The superintendent may require other reports from
industrial users as necessary, including, but not limited to, the reports
required by 40 CFR 403.12.
   D.   Report Contents: In addition to the requirements stated in the
preceding paragraphs of this section, user reports shall comply with and
include all information required by 40 CFR section 403.12 and, in cases where a
pretreatment standard, local limit or other standard requires compliance with a
best management practice or pollution prevention alternative, the user shall
submit documentation as required by the superintendent or applicable standard
necessary to determine compliance status of the user.
   E.   Recordkeeping: All industrial users required to have individual permits
subject to the reporting requirements shall retain, and make available for
inspection and copying, all records of information obtained pursuant to any
monitoring activities required by this article, including documents associated
with best management practices, and any additional records of information
obtained pursuant to monitoring activities undertaken by the user independent
of such requirements. Records shall include date, place, method, time of
sampling, and the name of person taking the sample; the dates analyses were
performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical method; and the results
of such analyses. These records shall remain available for a period of at least
three (3) years. This period shall be automatically extended for the duration
of any litigation concerning the user or where the user has been specifically
notified of a longer retention period.
Failure to maintain the records as required by this article shall create a
presumption in favor of the city in any disputes regarding information that
would or should have been contained in the missing records. (Ord. 5267, 3-2-
2015)
ARTICLE D. PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
SECTION:
8-3D-1: Private System Required
8-3D-2: Sanitary Operations
8-3D-3: Inspections
8-3D-1: PRIVATE SYSTEM REQUIRED:
   A.   All houses, buildings or properties which are required by this article
or by other authority to have sanitary or industrial wastewater facilities and
are located where the POTW is not available shall be equipped, at the owner's
expense, with suitable wastewater facilities connected to a private wastewater
disposal system which complies with the provisions of the Black Hawk County
health department and all applicable requirements of Iowa Code. This section
shall not apply to any private system which discharges to the POTW or which
discharges directly to a natural outlet by authority of a separate NPDES permit
and in compliance with applicable state and federal laws.
   B.   Whenever the POTW extends service to an area whereby it is available
within two hundred feet (200') of the property line, the private system shall
be properly abandoned and the facilities shall be connected to the POTW in
accordance with this chapter 1 . (Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  8-3B-1 of this chapter.
8-3D-2: SANITARY OPERATIONS:
The owner shall operate and maintain private wastewater disposal facilities in
a sanitary manner at all times in accordance with applicable laws and
regulations and at no expense to the city. The facilities shall be subject to
inspection by the city at reasonable times should the city deem it necessary.
(Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997)
8-3D-3: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   The city may inspect the private systems when the Superintendent deems
it necessary.
   B.   The inspector shall have the authority to require the owner of the
private system to make necessary repairs to the system and/or properly maintain
the system, including cleaning. Should the owner fail to make the necessary
repairs or perform the required maintenance in a timely manner, the city may
authorize the work and assess the owner.
   C.   All outside water closets, privy vaults and septic tanks within the
sanitary district shall be abandoned and removed on order of the inspector,
where there is sanitary sewerage and water within two hundred feet (200') of
the nearest point or property line on which said water closets, privy or privy
vaults or septic tanks are located.
   D.   Whenever an outside water closet or a privy is ordered removed by the
inspector, it may be also ordered that a sanitary toilet or toilet facilities
be installed and be connected with the sanitary sewer and the costs thereof
collected as provided by statute. (Ord. 4261, 10-6-1997)
ARTICLE E. REGULATION OF FAT, OIL AND GREASE DISCHARGE BY FOOD SERVICE
ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
8-3E-1: Purpose
8-3E-2: Definitions
8-3E-3: Effective Date Of FOG Regulations
8-3E-4: Grease Interceptor Installation Required After Effective Date
8-3E-5: Exemption From Grease Interceptor Installation Requirement For Existing
Facilities
8-3E-6: Compliance Procedures
8-3E-7: Installation Of Grease Interceptors And Grease Traps
8-3E-8: Operation, Maintenance And Cleaning Of Grease Interceptors
8-3E-9: Records And Recordkeeping
8-3E-10: Inspection Of Grease Interceptors And Related Sewers And Equipment
8-3E-11: Inspection Fees
8-3E-12: Enforcement
8-3E-13: Notice Of Violation; Administrative Penalties; Corrective Action Order
8-3E-14: Other Penalties
8-3E-15: Order To Cease Operation Of FSE
8-3E-16: Appeal Of Corrective Action Order Or Cease And Desist Order
8-3E-17: Additional Remedies
8-3E-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article shall be to aid in the prevention of sanitary sewer
blockages and obstructions from contribution and accumulation of fat, oil, and
grease (FOG) into the POTW. Such discharges from commercial kitchens,
restaurants, food processing facilities and all other establishments, where FOG
of vegetable or animal origin are discharged directly or indirectly into the
POTW, can contribute to line blockages and/or spills in violation of title 40,
code of federal regulations, part 403. (Ord. 5256, 11-24-2014)
8-3E-2: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions found in section
8-3-3 of this chapter shall apply to the provisions of this article, provided,
however, that the following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES OR BMPs: Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to prevent or
reduce the pollution of waters of the state. For purposes of this article, best
management practices include procedures and practices that reduce the discharge
of FOG from a food service establishment, to the city sanitary sewer system and
to the POTW.
DESIGN LIQUID DEPTH: The maximum depth of liquid when the tank is filled with
water.
EFFECTIVE DATE: The date set forth in section
8-3E-3 of this article, upon which the regulatory provisions of this article
take effect.
FOG: Fats, oils, and greases of vegetable or animal origin contained in
wastewater from a food service establishment.
FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT OR FSE: An operation or enterprise that stores,
prepares, packages, serves, vends, or otherwise provides food for human
consumption, and which has been licensed by the state of Iowa under title IV -
public health, chapter 137F, food establishments and food processing plants, of
the Iowa Code. Such facilities may include, but are not limited to, those that
process meat or other food ingredients as an intermediate step or for final
human consumption, food service operations in a summer camp, residential
substance abuse treatment facility, halfway house, correctional facility,
school, restaurant, commercial kitchen, caterer, church, hotel, bars, hospital,
prison, care institution or similar facility.
In addition, any unlicensed operation or enterprise described above which has
been determined by the superintendent through means of sewer televising,
sampling of wastewater or other such investigative measures, to be creating FOG
related problems in the sanitary sewer system shall be considered a food
service establishment subject to the provisions of this article.
GREASE INTERCEPTOR: A tank that serves one or more fixtures and is remotely
located. Grease interceptors include, but are not limited to, tanks that
capture wastewater from dishwashers, garbage disposals, floor drains, pot and
pan sinks and trenches as allowed by local plumbing codes. For purposes of this
article, a grease interceptor is a multicompartment tank located underground
outside of a building that reduces the amount of FOG in wastewater prior to its
discharge into the POTW.
GREASE TRAP: A device designed to retain grease from one to a maximum of four
(4) fixtures. For purposes of this article, a grease trap is typically a small
device located within a building.
mg/l (MILLIGRAMS PER LITER): A measure of the concentration of a pollutant in
the waste stream, considered equivalent to parts per million (ppm).
MINIMUM DESIGN CAPABILITY: The design features of a grease trap or grease
interceptor and its ability or volume required to effectively intercept and
retain FOG from grease laden wastewaters discharged to the POTW.
NONROUTINE INSPECTION: An unscheduled inspection of an FSE made without prior
notification or arrangement.
ROUTINE INSPECTION: An inspection of an FSE which is scheduled in advance or
according to a prearranged schedule.
SUPERINTENDENT: Superintendent of the waste management services department, or
his designated representative.
USER: A person discharging anything other than domestic wastewater into the
POTW which may contain FOG, and may include discharges from mobile sources,
such as mobile food vendors.
WASTE MANAGEMENT SERVICES DEPARTMENT: City of Waterloo staff responsible for
the city's sanitary sewer system and wastewater treatment facilities, which are
also referred to as the publicly owned treatment works (POTW). (Ord. 5256, 11-
24-2014; amd. Ord. 5349, 4-18-2016)
8-3E-3: EFFECTIVE DATE OF FOG REGULATIONS:
The provisions of this article shall be effective on and after November 24,
2014. (Ord. 5256, 11-24-2014)
8-3E-4: GREASE INTERCEPTOR INSTALLATION REQUIRED AFTER EFFECTIVE DATE:
The owner of a building or facility in which an FSE is located, and the owner
or operator of an FSE, shall be required to install a grease trap, grease
interceptor, or other facilities to capture FOG from the waste stream prior to
discharge to the POTW, and to thereafter operate and maintain same to meet the
limits of one hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/l) - total FOG as provided
in this article. (Ord. 5256, 11-24-2014)
8-3E-5: EXEMPTION FROM GREASE INTERCEPTOR INSTALLATION REQUIREMENT FOR EXISTING
FACILITIES:
The requirements of section
8-3E-4 of this article shall not apply to that portion of a building or
facility within which an FSE is in existence on the effective date if:
   A.   The FSE has an existing grease interceptor or grease trap in place as
of the effective date and provided that: 1) the owner or occupant of the FSE
continues to use the interceptor or trap, 2) the interceptor or trap is of
sufficient capacity and design, and 3) the interceptor or trap is operated and
maintained so as to comply with FOG discharge limits. (Ord. 5256, 11-24-2014)
8-3E-6: COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES:
   A.   After the effective date, any permitted construction under section
8-3E-4 of this article shall be deemed compliant upon issuance of a certificate
of compliance or certificate of occupancy for such construction by the city
building official or designee.
   B.   The existing facilities of an FSE shall be deemed compliant, unless the
superintendent, or city building official or designee, determines that an
existing grease trap or grease interceptor is incapable of adequately retaining
FOG. In such cases, the superintendent may order the FSE to install an adequate
grease trap or grease interceptor within a specified time period if:
      1.   The FSE is found to contribute FOG in quantities above FOG discharge
limits; or
      2.   The FSE discharges necessitate increased maintenance on the POTW in
order to keep blockages from occurring therein; or
      3.   The FSE's discharge to the POTW is at any time determined to exceed
one hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/l) - total FOG.
   C.   An order directing an existing FSE or the owner or operator of the FSE
or the owner of the building or facility in which the FSE is located to install
a grease interceptor shall be in writing from the superintendent in the form of
a notice of violation including a corrective action order, as provided in
section
8-3E-13 of this article.
   D.   FSEs or owners of buildings or facilities within which an FSE is
located which are unable to install or replace a grease interceptor due to
exceptional physical constraints or economic hardship may appeal to the
superintendent for approval of an alternative grease control technology by
requesting a hearing in accordance with the provisions of this article. Such
requests shall be submitted in writing and shall include detailed descriptions
of the FSE's physical or financial constraints and of the alternative grease
control technology which it proposes to install and utilize. Adding
emulsification agents or other chemicals or enzymes to the waste stream to
address the grease discharge issues from the FSE are not considered acceptable
alternatives for FOG removal.
      1.   Notwithstanding approval of alternative grease control technology,
when the superintendent determines that such alternative is not performing
adequately, the FSE or owner of the building or facility in which the FSE is
located shall be required to take additional grease control measures, which may
include the installation of a grease interceptor.
      2.   In order to demonstrate exceptional physical site constraints
preventing the installation of a grease interceptor, the owner or operator of
the FSE or owner of the building or facility in which the FSE is located shall
submit to the superintendent documentation and plats showing the location of
city sanitary sewer and any private easements in relation to the building sewer
for the building housing the FSE, and showing available space inside or outside
the building and drawings of existing plumbing at or in a site that uses common
plumbing for all services at that site.
      3.   An FSE that is given an exemption from installing a properly sized
grease interceptor is prohibited from installing or using a dishwasher or
garbage disposal without approval of the superintendent and must comply with
the conditions of such approval, if any. (Ord. 5256, 11-24-2014)
8-3E-7: INSTALLATION OF GREASE INTERCEPTORS AND GREASE TRAPS:
Grease interceptors and grease traps, when required, shall be installed as
follows:
   A.   Grease interceptors and grease traps shall be installed at the expense
of the owner or operator of the FSE or owner of the building or facility in
which the FSE is located which is contributing wastewater to the POTW.
   B.   All wastewater streams containing FOG or reasonably likely to contain
FOG within FSEs or other FOG generating operations shall be directed into one
or more appropriately sized grease traps or grease interceptors before
discharge to the POTW.
It is the responsibility of the FSE to determine the appropriate sizing of any
grease traps, grease interceptors, or other grease removal facilities. The
discharge from the FSE shall be operated and maintained by the FSE such that
the FOG shall not exceed one hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/l) - total
FOG.
Grease removal facilities may be sized by considering the peak design flow
rates for all fixtures leading to the grease interceptor and allowing a minimum
retention time of thirty (30) minutes or as follows:
Grease interceptor sizing:
Grease interceptor sizing:
 1. Peak meals per hour:                                             
   a. Seating capacity of FSE                                          
   b. Occupancy of FSE                                                1
   c. Seating or occupancy x meal factor of 1.3 (45 minute meal) = Peak
     meals per hour   
 2. Waste flow rate, gallons of flow:                                
   a. Commercial, equipped kitchen with dishwasher and 1 garbage   7
     disposal2
   b. Commercial, equipped kitchen with dishwasher, no garbage     6
     disposal
   c. Commercial, equipped kitchen with no dishwasher, 1 garbage   6
     disposal2
   d. Commercial, equipped kitchen with no dishwasher, no garbage  5
     disposal
   e. Single service kitchen3                                      2
 3. Retention time, hours:                                           
   a. Commercial kitchen                                           2.5
   b. Single service kitchen                                       1.5
 4. Storage factor:                                                  
   a. Commercial kitchen up to 8 hours of operation                1
   b. Commercial kitchen up to 16 hours of operation               2
   c. Commercial kitchen up to 24 hours of operation               3
   d. Single service kitchen                                       1.5
 
 
Peak meals x Waste     x Retention x Storage = Calculated
per hour     flow rate   time        factor    interceptor size
 
Notes:
      1.    Church: include all area(s) used for meal service.
Assisted living/nursing facility: equal to maximum number of residents (per
state license).
      2.    Each additional garbage disposal, add 1 gallon.
      3.    Single service kitchen = no garbage disposal, no dishwasher and all
service is single use.
It is the FSE's responsibility to size the FOG removal system and to operate it
to meet the requirements of this article.
   C.   Concrete grease interceptors, whether precast or poured in place, shall
be designed and manufactured in accordance with ASTM C1613-08 standard
specification for precast concrete grease interceptor tanks or IAPMO/ANSI Z1001
prefabricated gravity grease interceptors and shall be installed in accordance
with the codes adopted by the city. Grease interceptors using materials other
than concrete require approval by the superintendent, and shall comply with the
conditions of such approval, if any.
   D.   The building official or other designated official of the city shall
inspect each grease interceptor installation made pursuant to this article,
shall review all relevant information regarding the rated performance of the
grease interceptor, and the building plan and facility site plan for the
building and site where the grease interceptor has been installed, and shall
approve such grease interceptor installation upon determination that the grease
interceptor meets all applicable standards and requirements.
   E.   Grease interceptors shall be installed outside the building housing the
FSE and below surface grade, and shall have access manholes, with a minimum
diameter of twenty four inches (24"), over each chamber and sanitary tee.
Access manholes shall extend from the grease interceptor to at least the
finished surface grade and be designed and maintained to prevent storm or
surface water inflow and groundwater infiltration. The manholes shall also have
readily removable covers to facilitate inspection and grease removal.
   F.   Sewer lines which are not grease laden, which are not likely to contain
FOG, or which contain sanitary wastes shall not be connected to a grease
interceptor.
   G.   Grease interceptors shall be equipped with an accessible discharge
sampling port with a minimum six inch (6") diameter, which shall extend from
the grease interceptor to at least the finished surface grade.
   H.   Where grease interceptors are shared by more than one FSE, the building
owner shall be the responsible party for recordkeeping and cleaning of the
interceptor. (Ord. 5256, 11-24-2014)
8-3E-8: OPERATION, MAINTENANCE AND CLEANING OF GREASE INTERCEPTORS:
   A.   The owner or operator of an FSE which is required to pass wastewater
through a grease interceptor or other grease removal facilities shall operate
and maintain the grease interceptor so that wastewater discharged from the
grease interceptor shall not exceed one hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/l)
- total FOG.
   B.   The owner or operator of the FSE shall cause the grease interceptor to
be cleaned as hereinafter required when FOG and solids reach twenty five
percent (25%) of the design liquid level of the grease interceptor, or sooner
if necessary to prevent carry over of grease from the grease interceptor into
the city sanitary sewer system. Interceptors shall be cleaned at least
quarterly unless a longer cleaning interval is approved by the superintendent.
If the owner or operator of the FSE, or an employee of the owner or operator,
has obtained a waste hauler's license and has completed, to the satisfaction of
the superintendent, the course of training offered by waste management services
in the cleaning of grease interceptors, such person or persons may clean the
grease interceptor. Alternatively, the owner or operator of an FSE may employ a
liquid waste hauler licensed by waste management services pursuant to section
4-3E-2 of this code to clean the grease interceptor, provided that the liquid
waste hauler personnel performing the grease interceptor cleaning has
satisfactorily completed a course of training on grease interceptor cleaning
offered by waste management services.
   C.   Any person who cleans a grease interceptor shall have received the
appropriate training through waste management services and shall clean the
grease removal system in accordance with the following procedures and
requirements. The person cleaning the grease interceptor shall:
      1.   Completely empty and remove the contents (liquids and sludge) of all
vaults of the grease interceptor, and remove the grease mat and scrapings from
the interior walls.
      2.   Not deposit waste and wastewater removed from a grease interceptor
back into the grease interceptor from which the waste or wastewater was removed
or into any other grease interceptor, for the purpose of reducing the volume of
waste and wastewater to be disposed of.
      3.   Not introduce enzymes, emulsifying chemicals, hot water or other
agents into a grease interceptor to dissolve or emulsify grease or as a grease
abatement method. Introduction of bacteria as a grease degradation agent is
only permitted with prior written approval by the superintendent.
      4.   Dispose of waste and wastewater removed from a grease interceptor at
the city operated disposal station or at a facility approved for disposal of
such waste by the superintendent. Waste and wastewater removed from a grease
interceptor shall not be discharged to any private sanitary or storm sewer or
to the city sanitary or storm sewer system.
      5.   Not use an automatic grease removal system to clean a grease
interceptor without prior written approval of the superintendent. If the use of
an automatic grease removal system is approved, it shall be operated in a
manner that the grease wastewater discharge limit, as measured from the
system's outlet, is consistently achieved.
   D.   If grease interceptor cleaning is performed by a licensed waste hauler,
the owner or operator of the FSE shall witness all cleaning and maintenance
activities to verify that the grease interceptor is being fully cleaned and
properly maintained according to the requirements of this section. The waste
hauler shall provide a copy of the disposal receipt for all waste and
wastewater removed from a grease interceptor to the owner or operator of the
FSE. As part of each cleaning of a grease interceptor, the owner or operator of
the FSE, or the licensed waste hauler employed by the owner or operator, shall
at a minimum perform and record the following maintenance activities:
      1.   Check that the sanitary "tees" on the inlet and outlet sides of the
grease interceptor are not obstructed, loose, or missing.
      2.   Verify that the baffle is secure and in place.
      3.   Inspect the grease interceptor for any cracks or other defects.
      4.   Check that lids are securely and properly seated after completion of
cleaning.
   E.   The superintendent may make exceptions to the above requirements, or
may approve alternative operational requirements or cleaning and maintenance
methods, provided that such exceptions or approvals shall be made in writing by
the superintendent. (Ord. 5256, 11-24-2014)
8-3E-9: RECORDS AND RECORDKEEPING:
   A.   Required Records: The owner or operator of an FSE which is required to
pass wastewater through a grease interceptor or trap shall maintain a written
record of grease interceptor or trap maintenance, including a log showing the
dates upon which the grease interceptor or trap was inspected and the estimated
amount of FOG present in the grease interceptor or trap at each inspection, the
date upon which waste and wastewater was removed from the grease interceptor or
trap and disposed of, and the location and means of such disposal of waste and
wastewater, and the name and employer or the person or persons performing each
of said tasks. The log shall further include a record of the placement of any
approved or unapproved additive into the grease interceptor, grease trap or
building sewer on a constant, regular or scheduled basis, including the type
and amount of additive placed on each such occasion. Only additives approved by
the superintendent pursuant to subsection
8-3E-8C3 of this article may be used in a grease interceptor.
   B.   Recordkeeping: The log shall at all times be kept and maintained on a
day to day basis, so as to show a record of waste and wastewater removal, waste
and wastewater disposal and approved additive placement. All such records shall
be kept secure at the premises of the FSE for a continuous period of three (3)
years and shall be made available for nonroutine inspection by the city, the
superintendent and the city's operating contractor, or the employees and agents
of any of them, at any time during normal business hours. (Ord. 5256, 11-24-
2014)
8-3E-10: INSPECTION OF GREASE INTERCEPTORS AND RELATED SEWERS AND EQUIPMENT:
The owner or operator of an FSE shall:
   A.   Provide, operate and maintain, at its expense, safe and accessible
monitoring facilities (such as a suitable manhole), and shall make such
monitoring facilities available for inspection, and for sampling and flow
measurement of the building sewer or internal drainage systems. There shall be
ample room in or near such monitoring facility to allow accurate sampling and
preparation of samples for analysis.
   B.   Allow personnel authorized by the superintendent, bearing proper
credentials and identification, to enter upon or into any building, facility or
property housing an FSE at any reasonable time and without prior notification,
for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, testing or
record review, in accordance with this article.
   C.   Open any grease interceptor, upon request by the superintendent's
authorized representative, for the purpose of confirming that maintenance
frequency is appropriate, that all necessary parts of the installation are in
place, including, but not limited to, baffles influent and effluent tees, and
that all grease interceptors and related equipment and piping is maintained in
efficient operating condition.
   D.   Accommodate compliance inspections and sampling events by the
authorized representatives of the superintendent. Staff may conduct routine
inspections and sampling events of any FSE. Nonroutine inspection and sampling
events shall occur more frequently when there is a history of noncompliance
with this article and when blockages occur in the city's sanitary sewer system
downstream of the FSE.
   E.   Be responsible for all cleaning and recordkeeping associated with the
FOG program. If during any inspection the city determines the records of the
FSE or waste hauler are deficient or have been falsified, the FSE and/or the
waste hauler may be subject to enforcement actions or other available remedies
in accordance with other sections of this article. (Ord. 5256, 11-24-2014)
8-3E-11: INSPECTION FEES:
The fees for inspection of an FSE shall be as provided in section
8-3A-3 of this chapter, or as otherwise set by resolution of the city council,
and shall be paid within thirty (30) days of the date of the invoice for such
fees. (Ord. 5256, 11-24-2014)
8-3E-12: ENFORCEMENT:
The superintendent is authorized to enforce this article as hereinafter
provided. The city building official or designee, or such other governmental
official hereafter designated by the superintendent, is also authorized to
enforce this article. (Ord. 5256, 11-24-2014)
8-3E-13: NOTICE OF VIOLATION; ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES; CORRECTIVE ACTION
ORDER:
   A.   The superintendent, or such other designated officers or officials with
enforcement authority as provided in section
8-3E-12 of this article, are authorized to issue a notice of violation imposing
an administrative penalty upon any person who fails to perform an act required
by this article or who commits an act prohibited by this article. Such notice
may include a corrective action order requiring the user to take one or more of
the following corrective actions within thirty (30) days:
      1.   Conform to best management practices;
      2.   Submit copies of the grease interceptor maintenance log;
      3.   Develop, submit and implement a FOG compliance plan to be approved
by the superintendent or designated enforcement official; or
      4.   Install a compliant grease interceptor or other grease removal
facilities.
   B.   The administrative penalty for such violations shall be as provided in
the schedule of administrative penalties adopted by the city council by
resolution. Notice of violation, with the applicable penalty for such violation
noted thereon, shall be issued to and served upon the violator by regular mail
or by delivery in person. Delivery shall be deemed to occur upon delivery in
person or two (2) business days after mailing. Penalties assessed pursuant to
notice of violation shall be paid in full by the violator as directed in the
notice within thirty (30) days of its issuance.
   C.   The administrative penalties set out in the schedule of administrative
penalties shall be charged in lieu of the fines and penalties provided for in
section
8-3E-14 of this article, unless the violator refuses to correct the violation
and pay the scheduled administrative penalty, or the superintendent determines
that immediate enforcement action by misdemeanor or municipal infraction
prosecution is, in view of the particular circumstances of the case, necessary
to achieve compliance with the requirements of this article. A record of all
violations, administrative penalties charged or other enforcement actions taken
shall be maintained by the superintendent for a minimum period of three (3)
years.
   D.   A person subject to a corrective action order may make a written
request to the superintendent for a reconsideration and hearing on the order
within ten (10) days from the date of delivery of the order. The process for
such reconsideration and hearing shall be the same as that set forth for
reconsideration and hearing of a cease and desist order set forth in section
8-3E-15 of this article. (Ord. 5256, 11-24-2014)
8-3E-14: OTHER PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who fails to perform an act required by this article or who
commits an act prohibited by this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by fine or imprisonment as set forth in section
1-3-1 of this code or shall be guilty of a municipal infraction punishable by a
civil penalty as provided by section
1-3-2 of this code.
   B.   Any person who fails to comply with a pretreatment standard applicable
to an FSE shall be guilty of a municipal infraction punishable by a civil
penalty of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each day the
violation exists or continues, as provided by section 364.22 of the Iowa Code.
   C.   When enforcement is sought through a municipal infraction proceeding,
the superintendent, or such other designated officers or officials with
enforcement authority as provided in section
 8-3E-12 of this article, may enter into consent orders, assurances of
voluntary compliance or other similar documents establishing an agreement with
the user responsible for noncompliance. Such orders will include specific
action to be taken by the user to correct the noncompliance within a time
period specified by the order. (Ord. 5256, 11-24-2014)
8-3E-15: ORDER TO CEASE OPERATION OF FSE:
   A.   Where a violation of this article has not been timely corrected, and
results in or threatens interference or pass- through as herein defined, the
superintendent, or such other designated officers or officials with enforcement
authority as provided in section
8-3E-12 of this article, shall have the authority to issue an order in writing
to the owner or operator of the FSE, ordering such person or persons to cease
and desist from further operation of the FSE and from further discharge of
wastewater to the sanitary sewer system. The order shall be delivered by
personal service unless the owner or operator cannot be found within the city,
in which event notice shall be by ordinary mail addressed to the owner's or
operator's last known address and by posting a copy of the notice in a
conspicuous place upon the premises of the FSE. Delivery shall be deemed to
occur upon delivery in person or two (2) business days after mailing.
   B.   Operation of the FSE shall cease on the date stated in the order and
shall not recommence without the prior written approval of the superintendent.
   C.   A person subject to a cease and desist order may make a written request
to the superintendent for a reconsideration and hearing on the cease and desist
order within ten (10) days from delivery of the order, provided, however, that
operation of the FSE shall cease pending the outcome of the hearing.
   D.   The owner's or operator's request for hearing shall identify the
appealing party, include the address of the person requesting the hearing and
to which all further notices shall be mailed or served, and shall state the
basis for the appeal.
   E.   The hearing shall be scheduled to be held as soon as practicable and no
later than fourteen (14) days after the request for hearing was filed with the
superintendent. The person requesting the hearing shall be notified in writing
or by telephone of the date and place of such hearing at least three (3) days
in advance thereof. At such hearing the superintendent and the person
requesting the hearing may be represented by counsel, examine witnesses, and
present evidence as necessary.
   F.   The determination by the superintendent that the violation occurred
shall be considered a final administrative decision, unless appealed as
provided in this article. (Ord. 5256, 11-24-2014)
8-3E-16: APPEAL OF CORRECTIVE ACTION ORDER OR CEASE AND DESIST ORDER:
   A.   Any person aggrieved by a corrective action order or a cease and desist
order issued by the superintendent, or by such other designated officers or
officials with enforcement authority as provided in section
8-3E-12 of this article, may file an appeal and request a ruling that such
order be modified or rescinded.
   B.   An appeal request must be filed with the city clerk, and an
administrative fee as set forth in section
8-3A-3 of this chapter paid, within ten (10) days of the date of delivery of
the order. Failure to file the appeal and pay the administrative fee within
said ten (10) days shall constitute a waiver of the right to a hearing, and the
order of the superintendent or other enforcement authority shall thereupon
become final. Hearing on the appeal before the city council, or its designated
committee consisting of no less than three (3) persons, shall be scheduled for
a date within twenty one (21) days of filing the appeal and shall be scheduled
for no more than thirty (30) minutes in length, or such additional time as the
city council or committee in its discretion may deem necessary. If the
appellant desires additional time, he or she must make application to the city
council or committee at least seven (7) days prior to the hearing date. The
appeal hearing shall be simple and informal, without regard to technicalities
of procedure or rules regarding admissibility of evidence. The city council or
committee may consider any evidence it considers credible, including testimony
of city employees, written summaries and other secondary sources, and give such
weight to the evidence as it considers warranted. After such hearing the city
council or committee shall affirm, modify or rescind the order. Such
determination shall be contained in a written decision and shall be filed with
the city clerk within ten (10) days after the hearing, or any continued session
thereof. (Ord. 5256, 11-24-2014)
8-3E-17: ADDITIONAL REMEDIES:
The superintendent or the city is not precluded from seeking alternative relief
from the court, including an order for abatement or injunctive relief or for
recovery of investigational or remedial costs resulting from a noncomplying
discharge, in the event that the superintendent or the city files a misdemeanor
citation, notice of administrative penalty, and/or files a municipal infraction
for the same violation of this article. (Ord. 5256, 11-24-2014)
ARTICLE F. FOUNDATION DRAIN DISCONNECTION
SECTION:
8-3F-1: Purpose
8-3F-2: Applicability
8-3F-3: Definitions
8-3F-4: Districts
8-3F-5: Disconnection Of Foundation Drain Connections Required
8-3F-6: Financial Assistance For Disconnection
8-3F-7: Approved Disconnection Procedure
8-3F-8: Further Conditions Of Financial Assistance Payment
8-3F-9: Noncompliance Fee For Foundation Drain Connection
8-3F-10: Rebuttable Presumption
8-3F-11: Refund Of Noncompliance Fee
8-3F-12: Inspection And Notice
8-3F-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to eliminate foundation drain connections to the
sanitary sewer system in order to mitigate detrimental impacts caused by
sanitary sewer overflows. The city hereby enacts a program, to be progressively
implemented in additional areas of the city, that will provide a limited
financial assistance payment to sanitary sewer system customers in established
districts that disconnect a foundation drain from the sanitary sewer system
within a specified period of time, and to establish monthly surcharge payments
for sanitary sewer system customers within established districts that fail to
disconnect foundation drains within a specified period of time following the
establishment of a district. (Ord. 5248, 10-27-2014)
8-3F-2: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this article shall be applicable only within the boundaries
of a district established under this article. (Ord. 5248, 10-27-2014)
8-3F-3: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this article, a "foundation drain" is any foundation drain,
footing drain, footing tile, sump pump, or similar system or device intended to
collect and convey groundwater along, adjacent to, beside or under the
foundation or basement of any building in a manner that connects with the
sanitary sewer system, or any downspout, drain, or similar system or device
intended to collect and convey surface waters in a manner that connects with
the sanitary sewer system. (Ord. 5248, 10-27-2014)
8-3F-4: DISTRICTS:
The foundation drain disconnection districts established under this article
include the following areas, each to have the effective date stated for such
district, and if no date is specified, then effective upon publication of the
ordinance codified herein. Additional districts will be created from time to
time by amendment hereto.
   A.   Foundation drain disconnection district 1 shall consist of the areas
identified as sanitary service areas 15 and 16 on the sanitary service area map
which is on file in the office of the city building official. The effective
date for said district is January 1, 2015. (Ord. 5248, 10-27-2014)
8-3F-5: DISCONNECTION OF FOUNDATION DRAIN CONNECTIONS REQUIRED:
All direct or indirect connections of a foundation drain within the established
district shall be disconnected from the sanitary sewer system within three (3)
years after the effective date of establishment of the district in which said
connection is located. "Disconnection" shall mean termination of any direct or
indirect connection to the sanitary sewer system, including direct connections
to the sanitary sewer service, connections to a sanitary sewer floor drain, or
any similar plumbing fixture that would allow foundation drain flow or surface
water flow to enter the sanitary sewer system. All disconnections of any such
foundation drain systems or devices shall conform to current standards adopted
as administrative policy by the city building official. (Ord. 5364, 8-22-2016)
8-3F-6: FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE FOR DISCONNECTION:
Any sanitary sewer system customer completing the disconnection of a foundation
drain from the sanitary sewer system as provided in this article shall be
entitled to a financial assistance payment from the city not to exceed two
thousand dollars ($2,000.00) of actual costs incurred for said disconnection,
which may also include the cost to install backflow prevention devices.
Financial assistance shall be subject to compliance with the provisions of this
article for an approved disconnection procedure. Such payment shall be subject
to the submittal of invoices, vouchers and documentation clearly establishing
the costs incurred. To qualify for the financial assistance, the approved
disconnection procedure must be completed within three (3) years after the
effective date for establishment of the district in which the property is
located, and the sanitary sewer system customer must submit a written
application for assistance in complete form to the city no later than thirty
(30) days after the end of said three (3) year period. Approved disconnections
made before the effective date for establishment of the district but after the
date of adoption of the ordinance that identified the district will also be
eligible for the financial assistance payment, provided that payment will not
be made until after the effective date. Approved disconnections in district 1
made between January 1, 2013 and December 31, 2014, shall be eligible for the
amount of the financial assistance payment stated above. In order to ease the
city's administrative burden and to reduce program costs, the application for
assistance shall include, on a form approved by the city building official, an
assignment to the contractor of the applicant's right to receive the financial
assistance payment, provided that said assignment shall not be mandatory for
qualifying work done before January 1, 2015. Any work done after said three (3)
year period for purposes of complying with the requirements of this article
will not qualify for any financial assistance hereunder. The payment of
financial assistance by the city under this section shall not be deemed to give
rise to any liability on the part of the city for work performed by a
contractor or any other person. (Ord. 5364, 8-22-2016)
8-3F-7: APPROVED DISCONNECTION PROCEDURE:
   A.   The approved disconnection procedure for a direct or indirect
foundation drain connection to the sanitary sewer system for purposes of the
financial assistance under this article must fully comply with the following
and must conform to current standards adopted as administrative policy by the
city building official:
      1.   Approved System: An approved system for the termination of
foundation drain connections must be used. The approved system shall consist of
a sump pump and sump pit with a discharge to an approved yard location or to an
available storm sewer.
      2.   Licensed Contractor: All work for an approved disconnection
procedure shall be performed by a master plumber or a residential building
contractor duly licensed by the city. Work done by a residential building
contractor under this article must remain within the scope of authorized work
as defined by current standards adopted as administrative policy by the city
building official.
      3.   Plugging Of Existing Connection: Any direct or indirect connection
between the foundation drain and the sanitary sewer system serving the building
shall be permanently plugged.
      4.   Floor Drain Connection Prohibited: The new system shall be installed
in such a manner that direct or indirect flow from the foundation drain to a
floor drain shall not be possible.
      5.   Postconstruction Inspection: The installation of the sump pump and
associated facilities work shall be inspected by the city. The sanitary sewer
customer shall be responsible to schedule the postconstruction inspection.
(Ord. 5248, 10-27-2014)
8-3F-8: FURTHER CONDITIONS OF FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PAYMENT:
   A.   Any sanitary sewer customer requesting the financial assistance
participation under this article must be the owner of the property, and as a
condition to receiving the assistance the owner must agree in writing to the
following:
      1.   Inspection: The city, on reasonable notice, may inspect the
foundation drain connection at any time.
      2.   Maintenance And Repair: The property owner shall maintain the sump
pump system and timely complete any repairs or replacement of the sump pump
system.
      3.   Discharge Modifications Prohibited: The property owner shall not
modify the sump pump discharge in any manner that would directly or indirectly
contribute foundation drain flow to the sanitary sewer system.
      4.   Noncompliance Fee For Foundation Drain Connection: The property
owner shall be subject to the provisions of section
8-3F-9 of this article regarding the extraneous flow fee for foundation drain
connection in the event the property owner fails to repair or replace the sump
pump or to cure any other prohibited modifications of the system within thirty
(30) days following notice by the city.
      5.   Agreement Runs With The Land: The property owner shall agree that
the requirements of this article shall run with the land. Such agreement may be
recorded by the city in the office of the Black Hawk County recorder, or the
city may elect to maintain a record or database of properties governed by such
an agreement. (Ord. 5248, 10-27-2014)
8-3F-9: NONCOMPLIANCE FEE FOR FOUNDATION DRAIN CONNECTION:
Any sanitary sewer customer within an established district with a direct or
indirect foundation drain connection to the sanitary sewer system remaining in
place three (3) years after the effective date for the establishment of the
district shall be subject to a monthly fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) for the
extraneous flow, or potential extraneous flow, contributed to the sanitary
sewer system. The payment will be in addition to all other sanitary sewer user
charges and shall continue to accrue from month to month until such time as the
city determines through inspection either that the direct or indirect
foundation drain connection no longer exists or that there was no direct or
indirect foundation drain connection as of the date of establishment of the
district. Extraneous flow fees remaining unpaid may be assessed against the
property for collection in the same manner as a property tax, as provided in
state law. (Ord. 5364, 8-22-2016)
8-3F-10: REBUTTABLE PRESUMPTION:
There is a presumption that all sanitary sewer customers within the established
district have a foundation drain connection to the sanitary sewer system as
prohibited under this article. Beginning three (3) years after the effective
date for the establishment of the district, all properties within the district
that have not completed an approved disconnection procedure or other equivalent
disconnection procedure inspected and documented by the city, or that have not
provided to the city a certified statement from a licensed master plumber,
licensed residential building contractor, or city plumbing inspector that the
property does not have a foundation drain connection, shall be presumed to have
a foundation drain connection for purposes of this article. (Ord. 5364, 8-22-
2016)
8-3F-11: REFUND OF NONCOMPLIANCE FEE:
Any property owner subject to the extraneous flow fee under this article may
request the city to inspect the sanitary sewer service. If the city determines
there was no direct or indirect foundation drain connection as of the effective
date for establishment of the district, the city shall refund all extraneous
flow fees collected and shall cancel all such fees that have accrued but have
not been collected. In the event the city determines a foundation drain
disconnection was completed and the foundation drain connection no longer
exists, the city shall discontinue the imposition of the extraneous flow fees
for that sanitary sewer customer and shall refund previous payments. Such
refund shall be limited to the number of monthly payments made or three (3)
months, whichever is less. (Ord. 5248, 10-27-2014)
8-3F-12: INSPECTION AND NOTICE:
Upon reasonable advance notice, the city may conduct periodic inspections of
properties to confirm there are no direct or indirect connections of the
foundation drain to the sanitary sewer system. If during an inspection the city
determines there is a direct or indirect connection as a result of a
modification of the system to allow for a direct or indirect connection,
failure to maintain or replace a failed sump pump that would allow an indirect
or direct connection to the sanitary sewer system, or such other cause as may
allow a direct or indirect connection, the city shall issue a written notice to
the property owner. The property owner shall have thirty (30) days to cure the
defect and to arrange for a reinspection by the city. If at the end of such
period the direct or indirect connection has not been inspected and determined
to have been terminated in accordance with section
8-3F-6 of this article, the property shall be subject to the extraneous flow
fee provisions of section
8-3F-9 of this article. The payment shall continue until such time as the city
determines through inspection the direct or indirect foundation drain
connection no longer exists. (Ord. 5248, 10-27-2014)
CHAPTER 4
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
SECTION:
8-4-1: Acronyms And Definitions
8-4-2: Purpose, Intent And Objectives
8-4-3: General Duties And Authority Of The City Engineer
8-4-4: City Council Discretion Regarding Improvements To System
8-4-5: Stormwater Management Authority
8-4-6: Right Of Entry
8-4-7: Establishment Of Stormwater User Fees
8-4-8: Stormwater User Fee Exemptions
8-4-9: Collection Of Stormwater User Fees
8-4-10: Discontinuance Of Service
8-4-11: Expenditures
8-4-12: Appeal Of Rates And Errors
8-4-13: Prohibited Acts
8-4-14: Enforcement
8-4-15: Nuisance Abatement Procedures
8-4-16: Nuisance Appeal Procedures
8-4-17: Payment Or Assessment Of Costs
8-4-1: ACRONYMS AND DEFINITIONS:
   A.   The following acronyms, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meaning:
BMP      Best management practice
CFR      Code of federal regulations
CWA      Clean water act
FEMA     Federal emergency management agency
HHW      Household hazardous waste
IDNR     Iowa department of natural resources
IDOT     Iowa department of transportation
MS4      Municipal separate storm sewer system
NOI      Notice of intent
NOT      Notice of termination
NOV      Notice of violation
NPDES    National pollutant discharge elimination system
NPS      Nonpoint source
NRCS     National resource conservation service
RCRA     Resource conservation recovery act of 1976
SMCRA    Surface mining control and reclamation act of 1977
SWPPP    Stormwater pollution prevention plan
TMDL     Total maximum daily load
U.S. EPA United States environmental protection agency
USDA     United States department of agriculture
USGS     United States geodetic survey
 
   B.   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter,
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning:
ADVERSE IMPACTS: Any negative impact on plant, soil, air or water resources
affecting their beneficial uses including recreation, aesthetics, aquatic
habitat, quality, and quantity.
ALLOWABLE NONSTORMWATER DISCHARGES: Discharge from firefighting activities that
are necessary due to an immediate danger to life or property; fire hydrant
flushing; potable water sources; water line flushing; uncontaminated
groundwater; uncontaminated pumped groundwater; crawl space pump water; natural
springs; natural riparian habitat or wetland flows; irrigation water (except
for wastewater irrigation); air conditioning condensation; exterior building
wash water when no detergents or other surfactants are used; pavement wash
waters where spills or leaks of toxic or hazardous materials have not occurred
and when no detergents or other surfactants are used (unless all spilled
material has been removed); diverted stream flows; storm sewer system cleaning
water; residential or noncommercial washing of vehicles; dechlorinated swimming
pool discharge less than one ppm chlorine; residual street wash water;
dechlorinated water from reservoir discharges; foundation or footing drains
where flows are not contaminated with process materials such as solvents (not
including active groundwater dewatering systems); discharges specified in
writing by the city engineer, or designated representative, as being necessary
to protect public health and safety of citizens; dye testing procedures
(requires a verbal notification to the city engineer, or designated
representative, prior to the time of the test); and any other water source not
containing pollutants, as approved by the city engineer, or designated
representative.
ANIMAL WASTE: See definition of Pet Waste (Or Animal Waste).
APPLICANT: Any person, firm, or governmental agency who executes the necessary
forms to procure official approval of a development or permit. In gaining
official approval, the person, firm or governmental agency intends to carry out
construction of a new development or redevelopment.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION: The elevation at all locations delineating the level of
flooding resulting from the 100-year frequency flood event. The 100-year flood
event has a one percent (1%) probability of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs): Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures and other management practices to prevent or
reduce the pollution of waters of the state. BMPs also include treatment
requirements, operating procedures and practices to control facility site
runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal or drainage from raw
material storage.
BUILDING OFFICIAL: City official or other designated authority charged with the
administration and enforcement of the city building codes.
BUILDING PERMIT: Permit issued for the construction, erection or alteration of
a structure or building and the related ground and surface preparation prior to
and after completion of construction, erection or alteration of a structure or
building.
BYPASS FLOW: Stormwater runoff from upstream properties tributary to a
property's drainage system but not under its control.
CALENDAR QUARTER: Each of the following periods: December through February,
March through May, June through August, and September through November.
CERTIFY OR CERTIFICATION: Formally attesting that the specific inspections and
tests were performed, and that such inspections and tests comply with the
applicable requirements of this chapter.
CHANNEL: Any defined river, stream, creek, brook, natural or artificial
depression, ponded area, on stream lake or impoundment, abandoned mine,
flowage, slough, ditch, conduit, culvert, gully, ravine, wash, or natural or
manmade drainageway, which has a definite bed and bank or shoreline, in or into
which surface or ground water flows, either perennially or intermittently.
CHANNEL MODIFICATION: The alteration of a channel by changing the physical
dimensions or materials of its bed or banks. Channel modification includes, but
is not limited to, damming, placement of riprap (or other armoring), filling,
widening, deepening, straightening, relocating, lining, and significant removal
of bottom or woody rooted vegetation. Channel modification does not include the
clearing of debris or removal of trash.
CITY ENGINEER: The professional engineer registered in the state of Iowa who is
designated as city engineer by the city council.
CLEAN WATER ACT (CWA): The federal water pollution control act (33 USC section
1251 et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto. (Formerly referred to as
the federal water pollution control act or federal water pollution control act
amendments of 1972.)
CLEARING: Any activity which removes vegetative ground cover.
COMMERCIAL: Pertaining to any business, trade, industry, or other activity
engaged in for profit.
COMPENSATORY STORAGE: An artificially excavated, hydraulically equivalent
volume of storage within the floodplain used to balance the loss of natural
flood storage capacity when fill or structures are placed within the
floodplain.
CONDUIT: Any channel, pipe, sewer or culvert used for the conveyance or
movement of water, whether open or closed.
CONSTRUCTION SITE: Any location where clearing, grading, filling, paving,
construction, or other activity occurs related to a change or improvement of
property.
CONTAMINATED: Containing harmful quantities of pollutants.
CONTRACTOR: Any person or firm performing or managing construction work at a
construction site, including any construction manager, general contractor or
subcontractor. Also includes, but is not limited to, earthwork, paving,
building, plumbing, mechanical, electrical or landscaping contractors, and
material suppliers delivering materials to the site.
CUSTOMER: Any person, property or entity served by and/or benefiting from the
stormwater utility's acquisition, management, maintenance, extension and
improvement of the stormwater drainage system and related facilities.
DEPARTMENT: The Iowa department of natural resources (IDNR) or an authorized
representative.
DETENTION BASIN: A facility constructed or modified to provide for the
temporary storage of stormwater runoff and the controlled release of this
runoff at a prescribed rate during and after a flood or storm.
DETENTION TIME: The amount of time stormwater is held within a detention basin.
DEVELOPED PROPERTY: Land that is altered from a natural state by grading and/or
construction activity for the purpose of constructing residential, commercial,
industrial, or institutional facilities such that the hydrology of the property
is affected.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations.
DISCHARGE: The release of water, and any elements, compounds and particles
contained within or upon released water, from property owned or controlled by
any person.
DISCHARGER: Any person who causes, allows, permits, or is otherwise responsible
for a discharge, including, without limitation, any owner of a construction
site or industrial facility.
DOMESTIC SEWAGE: Sewage originating primarily from kitchen, bathroom and
laundry sources, including waste from food preparation, dishwashing, garbage
grinding, toilets, baths, showers and sinks.
DRAINAGE PLAN: A plan, including engineering drawings and supporting
calculations, which describes the existing stormwater drainage system and
environmental features, including grading, as well as proposed alterations or
changes to the drainage system and environment of a property. Also see
definition of Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP).
DRY BASIN: A detention basin designed to drain after temporary storage of
stormwater flows and to normally be dry over much of its bottom area.
EARTHWORK: The disturbance of soils on a site associated with clearing,
grading, or excavation activities.
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: The city engineer or any other representative that is
designated by the city engineer to act in the place and with the authority of
the city engineer.
EROSION: The general process whereby soil or earth is moved by rainfall,
flowing water, wind or wave action.
EXCAVATION: Any act by which organic matter, earth, sand, gravel, rock or any
other similar material is cut into, dug, quarried, uncovered, removed,
displaced, relocated or bulldozed, and shall include the conditions resulting
from such actions.
EXCESS STORMWATER RUNOFF: The volume and rate of flow of stormwater discharged
from a new development or redevelopment, which is or will be in excess of that
volume and rate which existed before development or redevelopment.
EXISTING GRADE: The vertical location of the existing ground surface prior to
excavation or filling.
FACILITY: An entity which discharges stormwater.
FERTILIZER: A substance or compound that contains an essential plant nutrient
element in a form available to plants and is used primarily for its essential
plant nutrient element content in promoting or stimulating growth of a plant or
improving the quality of a crop, or a mixture of two (2) or more fertilizers.
FILL: Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock, or any other material is
deposited, placed, replaced, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported or moved by
man to a new location, and shall include the conditions resulting therefrom.
FINAL GRADE: The vertical location of the ground surface after grading work is
completed in accordance with the plans.
FIRE PROTECTION WATER: Any water, and any substances or materials contained
therein, used by any person to control or extinguish a fire, or to inspect or
test fire equipment.
GARBAGE: Animal and vegetable waste materials from the handling, preparation,
cooking or consumption of food, including waste materials from markets, storage
facilities, and the handling and sale of produce and other food products. Also,
refuse and other unwanted and useless material.
GRADING: Any act of excavation or fill of land surface to a desired slope or
elevation, or any combination thereof, and shall include the conditions
resulting from any excavation or fill.
GROUNDWATER: Any water residing below the surface of the ground or percolating
into or out of the ground.
HARMFUL QUANTITY: The amount of any substance that the appropriate official
determines will cause an adverse impact to storm drainage system or will
contribute to the failure of the jurisdiction to meet the water quality based
requirements of the NPDES permit for discharges from the MS4.
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE: Any substance listed in table 302.4 of 40 CFR part 302.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: Any substance identified or listed as a hazardous waste by the
EPA pursuant to 40 CFR part 261.
HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTE (HHW): Any material generated in a household
(including single and multiple residences) that would be classified as
hazardous by the IDNR or U.S. EPA or by any rule or regulation promulgated by
either agency.
HYDROGRAPH: A graph showing, for a given location on a stream or conduit, the
flow rate with respect to time.
HYDROGRAPH METHOD: A method that estimates runoff volume and runoff hydrographs
for a point of interest by generating hydrographs for individual subareas,
combining them, and routing them through stream lengths and reservoir
structures. Factors such as rainfall amount and distribution, runoff curve
number, time of concentration, and travel time are included.
ILLEGAL DISCHARGE: See definition of Illicit Discharge.
ILLICIT CONNECTION: Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or
subsurface, which allow an illicit discharge to enter the MS4.
ILLICIT DISCHARGE: Any discharge to the MS4 that is prohibited under this
chapter.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: A hard surfaced area that prevents or retards the entry of
water into the soil. An impervious surface may cause water to run off the
surface in greater quantities, or at an increased rate of flow, than was
present under natural conditions. Impervious surfaces include, but are not
limited to, rooftops, asphalt or concrete streets, sidewalks, driveway paving,
parking lots, walkways, patio areas, storage areas, gravel, bituminous
substances or other surfaces which similarly affect the natural infiltration,
or runoff patterns, of real property in the natural state with existing ground
cover.
INDUSTRIAL WASTE (COMMERCIAL WASTE): Any wastes produced as a byproduct of any
industrial, institutional or commercial process or operation, other than
domestic sewage.
INFILTRATION: The passage or movement of water into the ground.
LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY: The process of disturbing existing ground cover,
excavation of existing site material, or the placement of fill material on a
site, related to a manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, building or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations.
LOESSAL SOIL: Sediment, commonly nonstratified and unconsolidated, composed
predominately of silt sized particles with accessory clay and sand.
LOT: A parcel of land of at least sufficient size to meet minimum zoning
requirements for use, coverage and area to provide such yards and other open
space as are herein required. No portion of an established floodway area lying
within a lot or any access drive through a property shall be used in computing
the number of dwelling units to be constructed. Such lot shall have frontage on
a public street or private street and may consist of: 1) a single lot of
record; 2) a portion of a lot of record; 3) a combination of complete lots of
record, of complete lots of record and portions of lots of record, or of
portions of lots of record; and 4) a parcel of land described by metes and
bounds; provided that in no case of division or combination shall any
residential lot or parcel be created which does not meet the requirements of
this chapter.
MAJOR DRAINAGE SYSTEM: That portion of a drainage system needed to store and
convey flows beyond the capacity of the minor drainage system.
MAY: Signifies an act that is discretionary.
MECHANICAL FLUID: Any fluid used in the operation and maintenance of machinery,
vehicles and any other equipment, including lubricants, antifreeze, petroleum
products, oil and fuel.
MINOR DRAINAGE SYSTEM: Portion of a drainage system designed for the
convenience of the public. It consists of street gutters, storm sewers, small
open channels and swales.
MITIGATION: Activity necessary when the prescribed controls are not sufficient
and additional measures are required to offset the development, including those
measures necessary to minimize the negative effects which stormwater drainage
and development activities might have on the public health, safety and welfare.
Examples of mitigation include, but are not limited to, compensatory storage,
soil erosion and sedimentation control, and channel restoration.
MOBILE COMMERCIAL COSMETIC CLEANING (OR MOBILE WASHING): Power washing, steam
cleaning, and any other method of mobile cosmetic cleaning of vehicles and/or
exterior surfaces, engaged in for commercial purposes or related to a
commercial activity.
MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4): The conveyance or system of
conveyances, including storm sewers, roadways, roads with drainage systems,
catch basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, constructed channels and storm drains,
owned or operated by the city.
NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PHASE II PERMIT: A
permit issued by the U.S. EPA or by a state under authority delegated pursuant
to 33 USC section 1342(b) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters
of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual, group,
or general areawide basis.
NATURAL: Conditions resulting from physical, chemical, and biological processes
without intervention by man.
NATURAL DRAINAGE: Channels formed in the existing surface topography of the
earth prior to changes made by unnatural causes.
NONSTORMWATER DISCHARGE: Any discharge to the MS4 that is not composed entirely
of stormwater.
NOTICE OF VIOLATION: A written notice detailing any violations of this chapter
and any action expected of the violators.
OIL: Any kind of oil in any form, including, but not limited to, petroleum,
fuel oil, crude oil, synthetic oil, motor oil, cooking oil, grease, sludge, oil
refuse, and oil mixed with waste.
100-YEAR EVENT: A rainfall, runoff, or flood event having a one percent (1%)
probability of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Twenty four (24)
hour storm duration is assumed unless otherwise noted.
1-YEAR EVENT: A rainfall, runoff, or flood event having a one hundred percent
(100%) probability of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Twenty four
(24) hour storm duration is assumed unless otherwise noted.
OUTFALL: The point at which water or any other material leaves or may leave the
MS4 and also means the point at which water or any other material leaves or may
leave an enclosed conveyance that is part of the MS4 and enters an open
conveyance that is also part of the MS4.
OWNER: The person who owns a facility, part of a facility, or land.
PARCEL: A contiguous lot or tract of land under one ownership. A lot or tract
of land is land intended as a unit for the purpose of use, development or
transfer of ownership.
PEAK FLOW: The maximum rate of flow of water at a given point in a channel or
conduit.
PERMITTEE: The city or jurisdiction.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, firm, company, corporation, association,
joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental entity, or any other legal
entity, or their legal representatives, agents, or assigns, including all
federal, state, and local governmental entities.
PESTICIDE: A substance or mixture of substances intended to prevent, destroy,
repel, or migrate any pest.
PET WASTE (OR ANIMAL WASTE): Excrement and other waste from domestic animals.
PETROLEUM PRODUCT: A product that is obtained from distilling and processing
crude oil and that is capable of being used as a fuel or lubricant in a motor
vehicle or aircraft, including motor oil, motor gasoline, gasohol, other
alcohol blended fuels, aviation gasoline, kerosene, distillate fuel oil, and #1
and #2 diesel.
POINT SOURCE: Any discernible, confined, and discrete conveyance, including,
but not limited to, any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well, discrete
fissure, container, rolling stock, concentrated animal feeding operation,
landfill leachate collection system, vessel or other floating craft from which
pollutants are or may be discharged. This term does not include return flows
from irrigated agriculture or agricultural stormwater runoff.
POLLUTANT: Any item that may alter stormwater from a natural state. Pollutants
may include, but are not limited to, paints, varnishes, solvents, oil,
automotive fluids, solid wastes, yard wastes, refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter,
discarded or abandoned objects, pesticides, herbicides, fertilizers, sewage,
fecal coliform, heavy metals, animal wastes, sediment from construction sites,
and noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
POLLUTION: The alteration of the physical, thermal, chemical, or biological
quality of, or the contamination of, any water that renders the water harmful,
detrimental, or injurious to humans, animal life, plant life, property, or
public health, safety, or welfare, or impairs the usefulness or the public
enjoyment of the water for any lawful or reasonable purpose.
POSITIVE DRAINAGE: Provision for overland paths for all areas of a property
including depression areas that may also be drained by storm sewer.
POTABLE WATER: Water that has been treated to drinking water standards and is
safe for human consumption.
PRIVATE DRAINAGE SYSTEM: All privately or publicly owned ground, surfaces,
structures or systems, excluding the MS4, that contribute to or convey
stormwater, including, but not limited to, roofs, gutters, downspouts, lawns,
driveways, pavement, roads, streets, curbs, gutters, ditches, inlets, drains,
catch basins, pipes, tunnels, culverts, channels, detention basins, ponds,
draws, swales, streams and any ground surface.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT PLANS: Engineering drawings subject to approval by the city
engineer for the construction of public improvements.
QUALIFIED PERSON: A person who possesses the required certification, license,
or appropriate competence, skills, and ability as demonstrated by sufficient
education, training, and/or experience to perform a specific activity in a
timely and complete manner consistent with the regulatory requirements and
generally accepted industry standards for such activity.
REDEVELOPED PROPERTY: Developed property that is altered or expanded by grading
and/or construction activity at a time period following initial construction.
RELEASE: To dump, spill, leak, pump, pour, emit, empty, inject, leach, dispose
or otherwise introduce into the storm drainage system.
RETENTION FACILITY: Facility designed to hold stormwater for a sufficient
length of time to provide for the stormwater to be consumed by evaporation into
the air and/or infiltration into the immediate soil.
RUBBISH: Solid waste, including ashes, that consists of:
      1.   Combustible waste materials, including paper, rags, cartons, wood,
excelsior, furniture, rubber, plastics, yard trimmings, leaves, and similar
materials; and/or
      2.   Noncombustible waste materials, including glass, crockery, tin cans,
aluminum cans, metal furniture, and similar materials that do not burn at
ordinary incinerator temperatures (1,600 to 1,800 degrees Fahrenheit).
SANITARY SEWAGE: The domestic sewage and/or industrial waste that is discharged
into the city sanitary sewer system and passes through the sanitary sewer
system to the city sewage treatment plant for treatment.
SANITARY SEWER: The system of pipes, conduits, and other conveyances which
carry industrial waste and domestic sewage from residential dwellings,
commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing facilities and institutions,
whether treated or untreated, to the city sewage treatment plant (and to which
stormwater, surface water, and groundwater are not intentionally admitted).
SEDIMENT: Soil (or mud) that has been disturbed or eroded and transported
naturally by water, wind, gravity, or equipment tracking (tires, vehicles).
SEDIMENTATION: The process that deposits soils, debris, and other materials
either on other ground surfaces or in bodies of water or stormwater drainage
systems.
SEPTIC TANK WASTE: Any domestic sewage from holding tanks such as vessels,
chemical toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks and aerated tanks.
SHALL: Signifies an act that is mandatory.
SIGNIFICANT MATERIALS: Includes, but is not limited to, raw materials; fuels;
materials such as solvents, detergents, and plastic pellets; finished materials
such as metallic products; raw materials used in food processing or production;
hazardous substances designated under section 101(14) of comprehensive
environmental response, compensation and liability act (CERCLA); any chemical
the facility is required to report pursuant to section 313 of emergency
planning and community right-to-know act (EPCRA); fertilizers; pesticides; and
waste products such as ashes, slag and sludge that have the potential to be
released with stormwater discharges.
SITE: The land or water area where any facility or activity is physically
located or conducted, including adjacent land used in connection with the
facility or activity.
SLOPE DISTURBANCE LINE: The line which delineates relatively level building
areas from areas where slopes exceed seven percent (7%) and where special
precautions must be taken.
SMALL QUANTITY GENERATOR WASTE: Any hazardous waste generated by a small
quantity generator as defined by the U.S. EPA.
SOLID WASTE: Any garbage, rubbish, refuse and other discarded material,
including solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous material, resulting
from industrial, municipal, commercial, construction, mining or agricultural
operations, and residential, community and institutional activities.
STORM SEWER: A closed conduit for conveying collected stormwater.
STORMWATER: Stormwater runoff, snowmelt runoff, and surface runoff and drainage
consisting entirely of water from any form of natural precipitation, and
resulting from such precipitation.
STORMWATER DISCHARGE ASSOCIATED WITH INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY: The discharge from
any conveyance that is used for collecting and conveying stormwater and that is
directly related to manufacturing, processing or raw materials storage areas at
an industrial plant. The term does not include discharges from facilities or
activities excluded from the NPDES program. For the categories of industries
identified in subsections 1 through 10 of this definition, the term includes,
but is not limited to, stormwater discharges from industrial plant yards;
immediate access roads and rail lines used or traveled by carriers of raw
materials, manufactured products, waste material, or byproducts used or created
by the facility; material handling sites; refuse sites; sites used for the
application or disposal of process wastewaters (as defined at 40 CFR part 401);
sites used for the storage and maintenance of material handling equipment;
sites used for residual treatment, storage, or disposal; shipping and receiving
areas; manufacturing buildings; storage areas (including tank farms) for raw
materials, and intermediate and finished products; and areas where industrial
activity has taken place in the past and significant materials remain and are
exposed to stormwater. For the categories of industries identified in
subsection 11 of this definition, the term includes only stormwater discharges
from all areas (except access roads and rail lines) listed in the previous
sentence where material handling equipment or activities, raw materials,
intermediate products, final products, waste materials, byproducts, or
industrial machinery are exposed to stormwater. For the purposes of this
paragraph, material handling activities include the storage, loading and
unloading, transportation, or conveyance of any raw material, intermediate
product, finished product, byproduct or waste product. The term excludes areas
located on plant lands separate from the plant's industrial activities, such as
office buildings and accompanying parking lots, as long as the drainage from
the excluded areas is not mixed with stormwater drained from the above
described areas. Industrial facilities (including industrial facilities that
are federally, state, or municipally owned or operated that meet the
description of the facilities listed in subsections 1 through 11 of this
definition) include those facilities designated under 40 CFR section 122.26(a)
(1)(v). The following categories of facilities are considered to be engaging in
"industrial activity" for purposes of this subsection:
      1.   Facilities subject to stormwater effluent limitations guidelines,
new source performance standards, or toxic pollutant effluent standards under
40 CFR subchapter N (except facilities with toxic pollutant effluent standards
that are exempted under category (xi) of this definition);
      2.   Facilities classified as standard industrial classifications 24
(except 2434), 26 (except 265 and 267), 28 (except 283 and 285), 29, 311, 32
(except 323), 33, 3441, or 373;
      3.   Facilities classified as standard industrial classifications 10
through 14 (mineral industry) including active or inactive mining operations
(except for areas of coal mining operations no longer meeting the definition of
a reclamation area under 40 CFR 434.11(l) because the performance bond issued
to the facility by the appropriate SMCRA authority has been released, or except
for areas of noncoal mining operations that have been released from applicable
state or federal reclamation requirements after December 17, 1990) and oil and
gas exploration, production, processing, or treatment operations, or
transmission facilities that discharge stormwater contaminated by contact with,
or that has come into contact with, any overburden, raw material, intermediate
products, finished products, byproducts or waste products located on the site
of such operations; inactive mining operations are mining sites that are not
being actively mined, but that have an identifiable owner/operator;
      4.   Hazardous waste treatment, storage, or disposal facilities,
including those that are operating under interim status or a permit under
subtitle C of RCRA;
      5.   Landfills, land application sites, and open dumps that have received
any industrial wastes (waste that is received from any of the facilities
described under this subsection) including those that are subject to regulation
under subtitle D of RCRA;
      6.   Facilities involved in the recycling of materials, including metal
scrap yards, battery reclaimers, salvage yards, and automobile junkyards,
including, but limited to, those classified as standard industrial
classification 5015 or 5093;
      7.   Steam electric power generating facilities, including coal handling
sites;
      8.   Transportation facilities classified as standard industrial
classifications 40, 41, 42 (except 4221-4225), 43, 44, 45 or 5171 that have
vehicle maintenance shops, equipment cleaning operations, or airport deicing
operations. Only those portions of the facility that are either involved in
vehicle maintenance (including vehicle rehabilitation, mechanical repairs,
painting, fueling, and lubrication), equipment cleaning operations, airport
deicing operations, or that are otherwise identified under subsection 1 to 7 or
9 to 11 of this definition are associated with industrial activity;
      9.   Treatment works treating domestic sewage or any other sewage sludge
or wastewater treatment device or system, used in the storage, treatment,
recycling, and reclamation of municipal or domestic sewage, including land
dedicated to the disposal of sewage sludge that are located within the confines
of the facility, with a design flow of 1.0 mgd or more, or required to have an
approved pretreatment program under 40 CFR part 403. Not included are
farmlands, domestic gardens or lands used for sludge management where sludge is
beneficially reused and that are not physically located in the confines of the
facility, or areas that are in compliance with 40 CFR part 503;
      10.   Construction activity including clearing, grading and excavation
activities that result in the disturbance of one acre or more of total land
area or which result in the disturbance of less than one acre but is part of a
larger common plan of development or sale of one acre or more;
      11.   Facilities under standard industrial classifications 20, 21, 22,
23, 2434, 25, 265, 267, 27, 283, 285, 30, 31 (except 311), 323, 34 (except
3441), 35, 36, 37 (except 373), 38, 39, or 4221-4225 (and that are not
otherwise included within subsections 1 through 10 of this definition).
STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM: Any publicly or privately owned or operated
surface, system, facility, structure, improvement, development, equipment,
property or interest therein, or other structural or nonstructural element
made, constructed, used or acquired, for the purpose of collecting, containing,
storing, conveying and controlling stormwater, including, but not limited to,
storm sewers, curbs, street drains, conduits, lakes, rivers, creeks, other
natural or manmade channels, pipes, culverts and detention ponds.
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PROGRAM: Overall strategy and plan for the management of
stormwater drainage within the city as outlined originally in the city's notice
of intent dated March 2003.
STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP): A document that describes the
best management practices to be implemented at a site, to prevent or reduce the
discharge of pollutants.
STORMWATER RUNOFF: That portion of rainfall that drains into the storm sewer
drainage system.
STORMWATER USER FEE: The periodic rate, fee or charge levied within the
boundaries of the stormwater drainage system district for use in the
acquisition, management, maintenance, extension and improvement of the city's
stormwater drainage system and related facilities and otherwise in carrying out
the city's stormwater management program. User fees are based on measurable
parameters which influence the stormwater utility's cost of providing services
and facilities, with the most important factor being the amount of impervious
surface area on a parcel of property.
STREAM: Any river, creek, brook, branch, flowage, ravine, or natural or manmade
drainageway which has a definite bed and banks or shoreline, in or into which
surface or ground water flows, either perennially or intermittently.
STRIPPING: Any activity which removes the vegetative surface cover, including
trees, by spraying or clearing, and storage or removal of topsoil.
SUBDIVISION DEVELOPMENT: Includes activities associated with the platting of
any parcel of land into two (2) or more lots and includes all construction
activity taking place thereon.
SURFACE WATER: Water bodies and any water temporarily residing on the surface
of the ground, including oceans, lakes, reservoirs, rivers, ponds, streams,
puddles, channelized flow and runoff.
10-YEAR EVENT: A runoff, rainfall, or flood event having a ten percent (10%)
probability of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Twenty four (24)
hour storm duration is assumed unless otherwise noted.
TIME OF CONCENTRATION: The elapsed time for stormwater to flow from the most
hydraulically remote point in a drainage basin to a particular point of
interest in that watershed.
TRIBUTARY WATERSHED: All of the land surface area that contributes runoff to a
given point.
2-YEAR EVENT: A runoff, rainfall, or flood event having two percent (2%)
probability of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Twenty four (24)
hour storm duration is assumed unless otherwise noted.
UNCONTAMINATED: Not containing harmful quantities of pollutants.
USED MOTOR OIL (OR USED OIL): Any oil that as a result of use, storage, or
handling, has become unsuitable for its original purpose because of impurities
or the loss of original properties.
USED OIL: See definition of Used Motor Oil (Or Used Oil).
UTILITY AGENCY: Private utility companies, city departments, or contractors
working for private utility companies or city departments, engaged in the
construction or maintenance of utility distribution lines and services,
including water, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, electric, gas, telephone,
television and communication services.
VACANT: Land on which there are no structures or only structures which are
secondary to the use or maintenance of the land itself.
WASTEWATER: Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated stormwater,
discharged from a facility.
WATER QUALITY STANDARD: The designation of a body or segment of surface water
in the state for desirable uses and the narrative and numerical criteria deemed
by state or federal regulatory standards to be necessary to protect those uses.
WATERS OF THE STATE: Any river, stream, lake, pond, marsh, watercourse,
waterway, well, spring, reservoir, aquifer, irrigation system, drainage system
and any other body or accumulation of water, surface or underground, natural or
artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow through or
border upon the state or any portion thereof, but not including any waters of
the United States.
WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES: All waters which are currently used, were used in
the past, or may be susceptible to use in interstate or foreign commerce,
including all waters which are subject to the ebb and flow of the tide; all
interstate waters, including interstate wetlands; all other waters the use,
degradation, or destruction of which would affect or could affect interstate or
foreign commerce; all impoundments of waters otherwise defined as waters of the
United States under this definition; all tributaries of waters identified in
this definition; all wetlands adjacent to waters identified in this definition;
and any waters within the federal definition of "waters of the United States"
at 40 CFR section 122.2; but not including any waste treatment systems
treatment ponds, or lagoons designed to meet the requirements of the federal
clean water act.
WATERSHED: All land area drained by, or contributing water to, the same
channel, lake, marsh, stormwater facility, groundwater or area of depression.
WET BASIN: A detention basin designed to maintain a permanent pool of water
after the temporary storage of stormwater runoff.
WETLANDS: Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or ground
water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life
in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs,
and similar areas. For general, but not inclusive, locations of designated
wetlands refer to mapping prepared jointly by the U.S. department of the
interior and the U.S. fish and wildlife service.
YARD WASTE: Leaves, grass clippings, tree limbs, brush, soil, rocks or debris
that result from landscaping, gardening, yard maintenance or land clearing
operations. (Ord. 4980, 12-14-2009)
8-4-2: PURPOSE, INTENT AND OBJECTIVES:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter and other ordinances adopted under this
chapter is to address mandates of the federal government, including, but not
limited to, the clean water act and national pollutant discharge elimination
system (NPDES) phase II permit regulations regarding the desired reduction of
pollution in stormwater runoff.
   B.   The intent of this chapter and other ordinances adopted under this
chapter is to establish policies to comprehensively manage and reduce the
potential for stormwater runoff pollution in a safe and economical manner
within the city, for the purpose of promoting the health, safety and general
welfare of the population, and for the protection of property. This chapter is
also intended to provide for the study of, design, operation, construction,
equipping, and maintenance of the stormwater drainage system within the city
limits.
   C.   Following are objectives of the stormwater management program:
      1.   To maintain and improve the quality of water impacted by the storm
drainage system of the city,
      2.   Maintain emergency vehicle movement during storm or flood events,
      3.   Protect, maintain and enhance the environment of the city, and the
short term and long term public health, safety, and general welfare of the
citizens of the city,
      4.   Reduce pollutant discharge to the city's storm sewer system from
construction sites, as well as the discharge of pollutants from industrial,
commercial and residential areas of the city,
      5.   Preserve the value of existing buildings and other assets by
developing infrastructure that will assist in the reduction of storm event
related losses,
      6.   Assure that new developments and redevelopments do not increase
flood or drainage potential or create unstable conditions susceptible to
erosion,
      7.   Facilitate compliance of construction site permits with regard to
state and federal standards,
      8.   Preserve the city's watercourses in good condition,
      9.   Address and minimize obstruction of the city's watercourses,
      10.   Enhance urban water resource management techniques, including both
the reduction of pollution, and the enhancement of the urban environment,
required by the NPDES permit and such other regulations of the city, state and
federal government,
      11.   Maintain temporary and permanent public stormwater storage
facilities within the city in good operational condition,
      12.   Promote public awareness of the impact of improper discharge of
garbage, hazardous chemicals and sediment to the storm drainage system,
      13.   Encourage the recycling and proper disposal of hazardous consumer
products, and
      14.   Maintain and improve the quality of the community water into which
the stormwater outfalls flow, including, without limitation, the lakes, rivers,
streams, ponds, wetlands, sinkholes, and groundwater of the city, waters of the
state and waters of the United States.
   D.   The city owns or has legal access for purposes of operation,
maintenance and improvement to those segments of the stormwater drainage system
which: 1) are located within public streets, rights of way and easements; 2)
are subject to easement or other permanent provisions for adequate access for
operation, maintenance and improvement of systems or facilities; or 3) are
located on public lands to which the city has adequate access for operation,
maintenance and improvement of systems or facilities.
   E.   Operation, maintenance and improvement of stormwater drainage systems
and facilities which are located on private property or public property not
owned by the city, and for which there has been no public dedication of such
systems and facilities, shall be and remain the legal responsibility of the
property owner or occupant. (Ord. 4980, 12-14-2009)
8-4-3: GENERAL DUTIES AND AUTHORITY OF THE CITY ENGINEER:
The city engineer, or designated representative, shall exercise all lawful
powers necessary and appropriate to administer the stormwater management
program. The duties and authority herein described are in addition to other
applicable legal duties and authority. The duties and authority of the city
engineer, or designated representative, shall include, but are not limited to:
   A.   Administration of the regulations contained in the NPDES permit and in
this chapter.
   B.   Development and administration of all phases of a comprehensive
stormwater management program, including establishing, studying, planning,
designing, developing, acquiring land for, constructing, administering,
operating, improving, maintaining, and reconstructing the city's storm sewer
system as necessary.
   C.   Administration of the accounting, budgeting, recordkeeping and support
personnel necessary for the efficient operation of the stormwater management
program.
   D.   Development of educational materials to increase public awareness that
would improve the public's knowledge and reduce the introduction of pollution
to the stormwater drainage system by the general public.
   E.   Coordinate enforcement of the regulations contained in this chapter and
other ordinances adopted under this chapter with other city departments.
   F.   Seek the cooperation of counties and municipalities in communities
adjacent to the city with the goal of reducing storm drainage system flooding.
   G.   Cooperate with other affected political jurisdictions in preparing and
implementing master drainage plans.
   H.   Provide an exchange of information between the public and city
employees on flooding areas and stormwater drainage problems within the city.
   I.   Perform studies and evaluation required to establish, maintain and/or
modify the stormwater management program, and conduct necessary inspections and
tests to assure compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   J.   Require the preservation and enhancement of certain natural
environmental features.
   K.   Require submittal of appropriate federal, state and local permitting to
perform work within the city limits.
   L.   Review the installation of drainage improvements in new developments
and in redevelopments.
   M.   Administration of a program to periodically review erosion control
features placed within new construction sites.
   N.   Administration of a program to periodically review erosion control
features placed during initial construction to ensure that they remain in good
condition and are not removed without proper authorization.
   O.   Recommend to the city council the establishment, and periodic
adjustment of, stormwater user fees.
   P.   Review and recommend modification to the collection procedure for
stormwater user fees.
   Q.   Hear and consider challenges to the application of this chapter, the
application of other ordinances adopted under this chapter, and the calculation
of stormwater user fees.
   R.   Recommend to the mayor and the city council policies for establishing
additional stormwater drainage services, preserving or expanding existing
services and making changes in service for the benefit of the city.
   S.   Recommend to the mayor and the city council policies for establishing
additional stormwater drainage services, preserving or expanding existing
services and making changes in service for the benefit of the city, and
otherwise recommend policies to implement the provisions of this chapter.
   T.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, determine all matters
concerning establishment of billing accounts for stormwater user fees,
including, but not limited to, creating customer billing accounts that may
consist of combining separate contiguous parcels of property that are under
single ownership, creating master accounts for billing of user fees when there
are multiple property owners on combined water accounts or in other suitable
situations, and otherwise combining or dividing parcels for fair and
administratively convenient billing.
   U.   Determine proper classification of a property for billing purposes and
calculate and establish ERUs for properties.
   V.   In coordination with other city departments, maintain a complete and
accurate record of all stormwater drainage systems and facilities.
   W.   Construe and interpret this chapter to achieve, to the extent possible,
harmony among its provisions and to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 4980, 12-14-2009)
8-4-4: CITY COUNCIL DISCRETION REGARDING IMPROVEMENTS TO SYSTEM:
   A.   Determination of stormwater services to be provided by the city, and
construction of stormwater facilities and improvements to the stormwater
drainage system, shall be made at the sole discretion of the city council.
   B.   The city engineer, or designated representative, shall recommend
stormwater services to be provided by the city, and construction of the
stormwater facilities and improvements to the stormwater drainage system, to
the city council based upon engineering analysis, taking into consideration
frequency of flooding events, potential loss of life, potential property
damage, effect upon the general public and other factors affecting the purpose
of this chapter. (Ord. 4980, 12-14-2009)
8-4-5: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT AUTHORITY:
   A.   All areas within the city limits of the city are hereby declared and
designated as a stormwater drainage system district within the meaning and
intent of, and for the purposes authorized by, section 384.84 of the code of
Iowa. Said district shall be governed by a stormwater management authority.
   B.   In furtherance of the purposes for which a stormwater drainage system
district is authorized, and to protect and promote the public health, safety,
welfare, and convenience of the city and its citizens, user fees shall be
levied upon and collected from the owners of all real estate that discharges
stormwater, directly or indirectly, to the stormwater drainage system.
   C.   The city council shall be the governing body of the stormwater
management authority, and the authority shall be under the direction,
management and control of the city engineer. The city engineer shall oversee
the daily operation of the stormwater management authority, shall enforce the
provisions of this chapter and all other ordinances adopted under this chapter,
and shall carry out the policy directives of the city council acting in its
role as governing body of the stormwater management authority. (Ord. 4980, 12-
14-2009)
8-4-6: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The city engineer, or designated representative, bearing proper credentials and
identification, shall be permitted to enter all private properties at
reasonable times for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing all private stormwater discharges directly or indirectly
entering into any public stormwater drainage system or facility in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter. If entry is refused, the city engineer
shall have recourse to remedies provided by law to secure entry. (Ord. 4980,
12-14-2009)
8-4-7: ESTABLISHMENT OF STORMWATER USER FEES:
   A.   Every customer whose premises is served by a connection to the
stormwater drainage system and facilities, either directly or indirectly, shall
pay user fees to the city for the purpose of contributing toward the costs of
the stormwater management program. The city council may, from time to time,
adopt a separate ordinance to set user fees and to determine the effective date
of such fees. For any property that becomes subject to payment of a user fee or
adds additional impervious area after the adoption of such ordinance, billing
shall commence after substantial completion of construction of improvements.
For any property on which a structure is demolished or impervious area is
removed, the property may qualify for a suitable reduction in user fees. Fees
shall be calculated on a monthly basis and billed to all customers according to
the Waterloo Water Works billing schedule.
   B.   For purposes this chapter pertaining to stormwater user fees, and for
purposes of any separate ordinance adopted by the city council that establishes
specific user fees, the following definitions shall apply:
COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL: Any developed property on which retail, office,
industrial or manufacturing buildings, storage buildings and storage areas
covered by impervious surfaces, parking lots, public and private school
buildings, churches, hospitals and convalescent centers have been constructed.
DUPLEX DWELLING: A building containing only two (2) dwelling units and designed
for and occupied exclusively by not more than two (2) families. In the
application of stormwater user fees, duplex dwelling properties shall be
treated as two (2) single- family dwellings.
DWELLING UNIT: A singular unit or apartment providing complete, independent
living facilities for one or more persons, including provisions for living,
sleeping, cooking, eating, and sanitation.
EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT (ERU): The average impervious coverage of a
detached dwelling unit property in the City, as determined by the City. Five
thousand (5,000) square feet of impervious surface area shall be one equivalent
unit. The number of ERUs for each property shall be calculated by the City
Engineer based on aerial photography in use by the City, impervious surface
data from an approved site plan for the property, and/or data obtained during
an appeals process.
MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING: A building or portion thereof containing more than
two (2) dwelling units designed for or occupied by more than two (2) families.
In the application of stormwater user fees, each dwelling unit in a multiple-
family dwelling unit shall be treated as one single-family dwelling.
RESIDENTIAL: Any developed property on which a single-family dwelling, duplex
dwelling, multiple-family dwelling or townhome dwelling has been constructed.
SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING: A building containing only one dwelling unit and
designed for and occupied exclusively for residence purposes by only one
family, including, but not limited to, a mobile home.
SUBSTANTIAL COMPLETION: The date that the City has acknowledged completion of
construction in accordance with approved plans and specifications through the
issuance of a temporary certificate of occupancy or permanent certificate of
occupancy, a date otherwise determined for purposes of this chapter by the City
Engineer or designated representative, or the date when Waterloo Water Works
establishes an account for a property.
TOWNHOME DWELLING: A dwelling unit which is detached or attached horizontally,
and not vertically, to one or more other dwelling units, wherein the land or
lot beneath each dwelling may be individually owned in common by a townhome
association. In the application of stormwater user fees, each separate townhome
dwelling shall be treated as one single-family dwelling.
UNDEVELOPED PROPERTY: Land in its unaltered natural state or which has been
modified to such minimal degree as to have a hydrologic response comparable to
land in an unaltered state. Undeveloped property shall have less than five
hundred (500) square feet of impervious surface area. (Ord. 4980, 12-14-2009)
   C.   Except as noted herein or in this chapter, each customer whose property
lies within the corporate limits of the City shall pay to the City, through its
collection agent, at the same time payment of City water, sewer and garbage
services is made, the following user fees, regardless of the amount of water
consumption by such customer:
      1.   Undeveloped property: Zero dollars ($0.00) per month.
      2.   Residential: Four dollars ($4.00) per month per dwelling unit.
      3.   Commercial/industrial: Four dollar ($4.00) base, plus four dollars
($4.00) per ERU per month.
   D.   The fees stated above will become effective with bills issued after
July 1, 2019.
   E.   July 1st increase by twenty five cents ($0.25) for each year after
until 2023. (Ord. 5482, 2-11-2019)
8-4-8: STORMWATER USER FEE EXEMPTIONS:
Stormwater user fees shall not be imposed on the following types of property:
   A.   City, County, State and Federal roads, bridges, highways, streets,
rights-of-way, sidewalks and pathways.
   B.   All real property owned or operated by the City.
   C.   Parks and open spaces owned or operated by the County or State.
   D.   Railroad track and associated right-of-way, but not including any rail
yards, buildings, or other paved or graveled surfaces. (Ord. 4980, 12-14-2009)
8-4-9: COLLECTION OF STORMWATER USER FEES:
   A.   Waterloo Water Works is hereby authorized and directed to render and
collect fees in accordance with the fees established hereunder. Fees shall be
collected with the owner's regular water, sewer and garbage bill and shall be
shown as a separate item on the bill. Collection policies shall be the same as
for other city utility services. When a fee is more than six (6) months
delinquent, the unpaid fee shall be assessed against the property and shall
constitute a lien against the property as provided in Iowa Code section 384.84
(3). Amounts collected for stormwater services shall be deposited with the
city.
   B.   Late charges and penalties as are now or may be hereinafter established
for water, sewer and garbage service bills shall also apply to stormwater user
fees. In the event that any person, firm or corporation shall tender as payment
of water, sewer, garbage and stormwater user fees an amount insufficient to pay
in full all of the charges so billed, payment shall be credited proportionately
among all charges.
   C.   The provision for collection provided herein shall be in addition to
any rights or remedies that the city may have under the laws of the state of
Iowa or this code. (Ord. 4980, 12-14-2009)
8-4-10: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
After giving reasonable notice, Waterloo Water Works may discontinue water
service to any customer who has failed to pay the amounts due and owing under
this chapter and who has not contested payment thereof in good faith. (Ord.
4980, 12-14-2009)
8-4-11: EXPENDITURES:
The following are acceptable uses of any user fee revenues or other funds
allocated by the city to the stormwater management program or for stormwater
drainage systems or facilities. The following list is not exhaustive:
   A.   NPDES permit fees.
   B.   Development of public outreach and education materials.
   C.   Costs associated with public involvement and participation related to
the stormwater management program.
   D.   Stormwater policy development assistance.
   E.   Illicit discharge detection elimination procedures, equipment, testing
and investigation.
   F.   Water collection and sampling fees and related equipment.
   G.   Planning, design, engineering, construction, inspection, maintenance,
operation, and improvement of drainage services, facilities and structures,
which shall include, but are not limited to, conduits, drains, manholes,
stormwater detention devices, flow impediments, ponds, ditches, sloughs,
streams, filter strips, ripraps, and erosion control devices.
   H.   Construction site and postconstruction site plan review and inspection
costs.
   I.   Staff time related to the stormwater management program.
   J.   Employee training.
   K.   Costs associated with capital improvements to stormwater drainage
systems and facilities.
   L.   Consulting fees related to the stormwater management program and
construction of stormwater related projects.
   M.   Costs associated with watershed assessment.
   N.   Street sweeping costs. (Ord. 4980, 12-14-2009)
8-4-12: APPEAL OF RATES AND ERRORS:
Any customer who believes that the provisions of this chapter have been applied
in error, either as to property classification, the number of dwelling units,
or the number of ERUs applicable to the property, or who believes that there
has otherwise been an error in billing, may appeal in the manner set forth in
this section.
   A.   Filing Of Appeal: An appeal must be filed in writing with the city
engineer. In the case of appeals relating to the number of ERUs determined for
a property, the appeal shall include a survey prepared by a licensed Iowa land
surveyor or an Iowa professional civil engineer containing information on the
total property area, the impervious surface area and any other features or
conditions which influence the hydrologic response of the property to rainfall
events.
   B.   Review: Using the information provided by the appellant, the city
engineer, or designated representative, shall conduct a review of the
conditions on the property or otherwise review factors relevant to the appeal
and respond to the appeal in writing within thirty (30) days.
   C.   Adjustment Of Charge: In response to an appeal, the city engineer, or
designated representative, may correct a billing error or otherwise adjust the
stormwater user fee applicable to a property in conformance with the general
purpose and intent of this chapter.
   D.   Appeal Of Adverse Decision: A decision of the city engineer, or
designated representative, which is adverse to an appellant may be further
appealed to the city council within fourteen (14) days of receipt of notice of
such decision. An appeal must be filed in writing with the city clerk, stating
the grounds for the appeal and the relief requested. An administrative fee, as
set forth in a schedule of fees determined by the city council from time to
time, must be paid when the appeal is filed. Failure to file the appeal and pay
the administrative fee within said fourteen (14) days shall constitute a waiver
of the right to a hearing, and the decision of the city engineer or designated
representative shall thereupon become final. The city council or its designated
committee shall schedule a public hearing within twenty (20) days after the
filing of the appeal, and the city clerk shall notify the appellant and the
city engineer of the date, time and place for the appeal hearing. Notice to the
appellant shall be mailed by ordinary mail. The hearing shall be simple and
informal, without regard to technicalities of procedure or rules regarding
admissibility of evidence. The city council or designated committee may
consider any evidence it considers credible and give such weight to the
evidence as it considers warranted. The person filing the appeal may be
represented by counsel at such person's own expense. The city engineer or
designated representative may be represented by the city attorney or by an
attorney designated by the city council at the city's expense. All decisions of
the city council or its committee shall be rendered in writing within ten (10)
days after the hearing, or any continued session thereof, and sent to the
appellant by ordinary mail to the billing address of the appellant. All
decisions of the city council or its committee shall be final. (Ord. 4980, 12-
14-2009)
8-4-13: PROHIBITED ACTS:
In addition to any other act prohibited by this chapter or any article under
this chapter, no person shall do, or allow to be done, any of the following:
   A.   Damage Stormwater Management Systems And Facilities: Maliciously,
wilfully or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with
any structure, pipe, appurtenance or equipment which is part of the stormwater
management systems or facilities.
   B.   Manholes: Open or enter any manhole, structure or intake of the
stormwater drainage system, except by authority of the city engineer.
   C.   Connection: Connect any private stormwater system to the city's
stormwater drainage system and facilities, except by authority of the city
engineer. (Ord. 4980, 12-14-2009)
8-4-14: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Violation of any provision of this chapter may be enforced by issuance
of a stop work order or notice of violation by the enforcement officer or by
civil action, administrative or judicial, including, but not limited to, an
action for injunctive relief. A stop work order shall specify the violation(s)
and shall remain in effect until the deficient condition has been remedied. A
notice of violation shall specify the violation(s) and shall allow a reasonable
time for correcting the violation to the satisfaction of the enforcement
officer.
   B.   Violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a municipal
infraction under this code. A person may be cited for subsequent violations as
additional violations are discovered. Each day that a municipal infraction
occurs or is permitted to exist constitutes a separate offense.
   C.   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided herein,
any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be considered a threat to public health,
safety, and welfare, and is declared and deemed a nuisance. This nuisance may
be summarily abated or remedied at the violator's expense.
   D.   In addition to any fine or penalty set forth in a schedule of
violations adopted by the city, as amended thereafter from time to time, the
city may recover all attorney fees, court costs and other expenses associated
with enforcement of this chapter, including necessary monitoring expenses.
   E.   The remedies listed in this section are not exclusive of any other
remedies available under any applicable federal, state or local law. It is
within the discretion of the enforcement officer to seek cumulative remedies if
necessary. Enforcement pursuant to this section shall be undertaken by the
enforcement officer upon the advice and consent of the city attorney. (Ord.
4980, 12-14-2009)
8-4-15: NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Any event, incident, element or condition constituting a violation or
failure to comply with any requirement of this chapter or any article under
this chapter shall be considered a threat to public health, safety and welfare
and therefore deemed to be a nuisance. At the option of the enforcement
officer, nuisances shall be processed as a civil action or in the manner set
forth in this section.
   B.   Except in cases where a nuisance is deemed to constitute an immediate
or imminent threat to life or property, the enforcement officer shall notify
the property owner in writing before taking action to abate a nuisance. The
written notice shall be delivered by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the
property owner at its last known address as shown by the records of the county
auditor no less than seven (7) days before the date of mailing. In addition to
mailing, the written notice shall, if possible, be posted on the property in a
conspicuous place. Such notice shall be dated and shall include the following
information:
      1.   Name of the property owner;
      2.   Location and description of the nuisance;
      3.   Actions that must be taken to abate the nuisance;
      4.   Deadline by which the required actions must be completed;
      5.   Amount of administrative and remediation fines, fees, or costs, if
any and if known;
      6.   Statement that the property owner has a right to appeal the notice
in accordance with the procedures set forth in this chapter; and
      7.   Statement that, if the property owner fails to take required action
within the stated deadline, the work may be done by the city at the property
owner's expense.
   C.   If the property owner does not abate the nuisance as required by the
notice, the enforcement officer may enter upon the subject property and take
measures necessary to abate the nuisance. It shall be unlawful for any person
to refuse to allow the city, or the city's designated contractor, to enter upon
the premises for purposes of abating a nuisance.
   D.   If any nuisance is deemed to be an immediate or imminent threat to life
or property, the enforcement officer may order the nuisance abated without
advance written notice to the property owner and opportunity for appeal. As
promptly as practicable, the enforcement officer shall notify the property
owner in writing of the nuisance and action taken to abate the nuisance. (Ord.
4980, 12-14-2009)
8-4-16: NUISANCE APPEAL PROCEDURES:
   A.   Except as set forth in subsection B of this section, any person ordered
to abate a nuisance may appeal the notice. The appeal must be filed in writing
with the city clerk within fourteen (14) days of the notice date unless the
notice states a shorter time for filing an appeal, which in any event shall be
not less than seven (7) days from the notice date. An administrative fee, as
set forth in a schedule of fees determined by the city council from time to
time, must be paid when the appeal is filed. Failure to file the appeal and pay
the administrative fee within said fourteen (14) days shall constitute a waiver
of the right to a hearing. The written appeal shall specify the action appealed
from, the errors allegedly made that give rise to the appeal, and the relief
requested. Appeals shall be heard by the city council or a committee designated
by the city council. The city clerk shall notify the person filing the appeal
and the enforcement officer of the date, time and place for the appeal hearing.
Notice shall be mailed to the person filing the appeal by ordinary mail. The
hearing shall be scheduled for a date within twenty (20) days after the filing
of the appeal, unless the person filing the appeal requests an extension of not
more than fourteen (14) days. The hearing shall be simple and informal, without
regard to technicalities of procedure or rules regarding admissibility of
evidence. The city council or designated committee may consider any evidence it
considers credible and give such weight to the evidence as it considers
warranted. The intent of this subsection is to promote the prompt and speedy
resolution of disputes. The person filing the appeal may be represented by
counsel at such person's own expense. The enforcement officer may be
represented by the city attorney or by an attorney designated by the city
council at city expense. The decision of the city council or designated
committee shall be rendered in writing within ten (10) days after the hearing,
or any continued session thereof, and may be appealed to the Iowa district
court as provided by law.
   B.   If a person exercised a right of appeal with respect to a bill of
particulars under section
8-4B-5 or
8-4B-6 of this chapter, such person shall have no additional right of appeal
pursuant to this section. (Ord. 4980, 12-14-2009)
8-4-17: PAYMENT OR ASSESSMENT OF COSTS:
   A.   Costs incurred by the city to abate a nuisance shall include, but are
not limited to, sums paid to a third party for services provided in abating the
nuisance, the salaries and benefits earned by city employees engaged in abating
the nuisance, a reasonable charge for city machinery or equipment used, and
such other reasonable costs and expenses as may have been incurred.
   B.   After action to abate a nuisance has been completed, the city shall
send to the property owner an itemized written statement of nuisance abatement
costs and related fees and charges. The written statement shall be sent by
ordinary mail to the property owner at its last known address as shown by the
records of the county auditor no less than seven (7) days before the date of
mailing. The statement shall be immediately due and payable and shall become
delinquent if not paid within fourteen (14) days after the date of the
statement.
   C.   A person who has been charged nuisance abatement costs may file an
appeal in writing with the city clerk within fourteen (14) days of the
statement date. An administrative fee, as set forth in a schedule of fees
determined by the city council from time to time, must be paid when the appeal
is filed. Failure to file the appeal and pay the administrative fee within said
fourteen (14) days shall constitute a waiver of the right to a hearing, and the
statement shall thereupon become final. Appeals shall be heard by the city
council or a committee designated by the city council. The city clerk shall
notify the person filing the appeal and the enforcement officer of the date,
time and place for the appeal hearing. Notice shall be mailed to the person
filing the appeal by ordinary mail. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within twenty (20) days after the filing of the appeal, unless the person
filing the appeal requests an extension of not more than fourteen (14) days.
The hearing shall be simple and informal, without regard to technicalities of
procedure or rules regarding admissibility of evidence. The city council or
designated committee may consider any evidence it considers credible and give
such weight to the evidence as it considers warranted. The intent of this
subsection is to promote the prompt and speedy resolution of disputes. The
person filing the appeal may be represented by counsel at such person's own
expense. The enforcement officer may be represented by the city attorney or by
an attorney designated by the city council at city expense. After such hearing,
the city council or designated committee shall determine whether the amount of
the assessment should be affirmed, reduced, or waived. The decision shall be
rendered in writing within ten (10) days after the hearing, or any continued
session thereof, and may be appealed to the Iowa district court as provided by
law. If the amount of the assessment is reduced by over half or waived, the
appeal filing fee shall be refunded to the person who filed the appeal.
   D.   All cost and expense of the city in abating a nuisance, and all other
related fees and charges, shall, if and to the extent not paid, constitute a
lien against the property and shall be assessed against the property pursuant
to Iowa Code section 364.12 for collection in the same manner as a property
tax. (Ord. 4980, 12-14-2009)
WA530   8-4A ()CHAPTER 4
STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
ARTICLE A. ILLICIT DISCHARGE DETECTION AND ELIMINATION
SECTION:
8-4A-1: Purpose And Intent
8-4A-2: Definitions
8-4A-3: Applicability
8-4A-4: Storm Water Management Program; Authority Of City Engineer
8-4A-5: Exempted Nonstorm Water Discharges
8-4A-6: Illicit Discharges And Illicit Connections Prohibited
8-4A-7: Illicit Discharge Items
8-4A-8: Storm Water Monitoring Sites
8-4A-9: Watercourse Protection
8-4A-10: Management Of Storm Water Pollutants By Use Of Best Management
Practices (BMPs)
8-4A-11: Suspension Of Discharge Rights Due To Illicit Discharges In Emergency
Situations
8-4A-12: Suspension Of Action Due To Detection Of Illicit Discharge In
Nonemergency Situations
8-4A-13: Monitoring Of Discharges
8-4A-14: Notification Of Spills
8-4A-15: Enforcement; Notice Of Violation
8-4A-16: Appeal Of Notice Of Violation
8-4A-17: Enforcement Measures After Appeal
8-4A-18: Cost Of Abatement Of Violation
8-4A-19: Injunctive Relief
8-4A-20: Compensatory Action
8-4A-21: Violations Deemed A Public Nuisance
8-4A-22: Municipal Infraction
8-4A-23: Remedies Not Exclusive
8-4A-24: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
8-4A-25: Severability
8-4A-26: Ultimate Responsibility
8-4A-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this article is to provide for the health, safety, and general
welfare of the citizens of the city through the regulation of nonstorm water
discharges to the municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4), to the maximum
extent practicable, as required by federal and state law. This article
establishes methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants into the
municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) in order to comply with
requirements of the national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES)
phase II permit and the federal clean water act. The objectives of this article
are to:
   A.   Establish legal authority to conduct inspection and monitoring
procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this article;
   B.   Investigate and eliminate, to the maximum extent practicable, the
contribution of pollutants to the MS4 by storm water discharges introduced by
system users; and
   C.   Prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the MS4. (Ord. 4762, 3-
14-2005)
8-4A-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Terms or acronyms used in this article shall, unless defined in this
article, have the meanings given to them in section
8-4-1 of this chapter.
   B.   As used in this article, the term "city engineer" includes any other
representative of the city engineer's office that is designated by the city
engineer to act in the place and with the authority of the city engineer. (Ord.
4762, 3-14-2005)
8-4A-3: APPLICABILITY:
This article shall apply to all water entering the MS4, generated on developed
or undeveloped lands, unless explicitly exempted by the NPDES permit, federal
and state regulations and the city council. (Ord. 4762, 3-14-2005)
8-4A-4: STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PROGRAM; AUTHORITY OF CITY ENGINEER:
   A.   The city engineer shall administer, implement, and enforce the
provisions of this article.
   B.   With respect to the city's compliance with the NPDES phase II permit
regulations, the city engineer may do the following in relation to illicit
discharge detection and elimination:
      1.   Carry out all inspections, monitoring and enforcement procedures
necessary to determine compliance with this article;
      2.   Administer the city's compliance with the NPDES MS4 permit to
discharge storm water;
      3.   Create, promote, and distribute to citizens educational program
materials related to storm water pollution prevention;
      4.   Investigate potential storm water pollution violations that are
within the city limits on residential, commercial, industrial and city owned
properties for the presence of illicit discharges as defined by this chapter
that may contaminate storm water runoff;
      5.   Review and enforce remediation programs as required for properties
where illicit discharge to the storm sewer system are found to exist;
      6.   Develop programs to control the discharge of pollutants, and the
dumping or disposal of materials other than storm water (e.g., industrial and
commercial waste, trash, motor vehicle fluids, yard waste, grass clippings,
animal waste, etc.) into the MS4;
      7.   Acquire and authorize testing of water samples through field testing
programs;
      8.   Audit city use of herbicides, fertilizers and pesticides to
determine compliance with federal and state regulations and recommend
alternative solutions where practicable for the reduction of the use of these
items through education and outreach programs; and
      9.   Audit city department procedures to confirm that the city is in
compliance with federal and state NPDES regulations and determine if the city
has obtained, and is in compliance with, permits required by federal and state
environmental laws. (Ord. 4762, 3-14-2005)
8-4A-5: EXEMPTED NONSTORM WATER DISCHARGES:
The following nonstorm water discharges are exempt from the discharge
prohibitions of this article, unless a particular discharge has been determined
to be a substantial contributor of pollutants to the MS4 and the discharge
continues more than ten (10) days after delivery of written notice of such
determination to the discharger:
   A.   Firefighting activities that are necessary due to an immediate danger
to life or property;
   B.   Fire hydrant flushing;
   C.   Potable water sources;
   D.   Water line flushing;
   E.   Uncontaminated ground water;
   F.   Uncontaminated pumped ground water;
   G.   Crawl space pump water;
   H.   Natural springs;
   I.   Natural riparian habitat or wetland flows;
   J.   Irrigation water (except for wastewater irrigation);
   K.   Air conditioning condensation;
   L.   Exterior building wash water when no detergents or other surfactants
are used;
   M.   Pavement wash waters where spills or leaks of toxic or hazardous
materials have not occurred and when no detergents or other surfactants are
used (unless all spilled material has been removed);
   N.   Diverted stream flows;
   O.   Storm sewer system cleaning water;
   P.   Residential or noncommercial washing of vehicles;
   Q.   Dechlorinated swimming pool discharge less than one ppm chlorine;
   R.   Residual street wash water;
   S.   Dechlorinated water from reservoir discharges;
   T.   Foundation or footing drains where flows are not contaminated with
process materials such as solvents (not including active ground water
dewatering systems);
   U.   Discharges specified in writing by the city engineer as being necessary
to protect public health and safety of citizens;
   V.   Dye testing procedures (requires a verbal notification to the city
engineer prior to the time of the test); and
   W.   Any other water source not containing pollutants, as approved by the
city engineer. (Ord. 4762, 3-14-2005)
8-4A-6: ILLICIT DISCHARGES AND ILLICIT CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the MS4 any
materials, including, but not limited to, pollutants, or waters containing any
pollutants, that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality
standards, other than storm water.
   B.   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of illicit
connections to the MS4 is prohibited.
   C.   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
   D.   A person is considered to be in violation of this article if the person
connects a line conveying a pollutant to the MS4, or allows such a connection
to continue. The prohibition shall not apply to any nonstorm water discharge
permitted under this article, an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order
issued to the discharger and administered under the authority of the federal
environmental protection agency; provided, that the discharger is in full
compliance with all requirements of this article, the permit, waiver, or order
and other applicable laws and regulations; and provided, that written approval
has been granted for any discharge to the MS4. (Ord. 4762, 3-14-2005)
8-4A-7: ILLICIT DISCHARGE ITEMS:
The following direct or indirect discharges into community waters, waters of
the state or waters of the United States are, without limitation, examples of
illicit discharges. This listing of discharges is not intended to be
exhaustive, nor shall it be construed as such, but is illustrative only.
   A.   Sewage dumping or dumping of sewage sludge;
   B.   Chlorinated swimming pool discharge with chlorine concentrations
greater that one ppm;
   C.   Discharge of any polluted household wastewater, such as, but not
limited to, laundry wash water and dishwater, except to a sanitary sewer or
septic system;
   D.   Leaking sanitary sewers and connections, which have remained
uncorrected for a period of time as indicated in the NPDES permit issued to the
city by the department;
   E.   Commercial, industrial or nonexempt public vehicle wash or power wash
discharge;
   F.   Dead animals or animal fecal waste;
   G.   Nonstorm water discharges, except those allowed pursuant to a permit
issued by IDNR;
   H.   Concrete truck wash water;
   I.   Dredged material from waterways;
   J.   Spoil material such as sediment runoff from construction sites;
   K.   Chemical waste;
   L.   Hazardous waste;
   M.   Runoff from discarded vehicles or equipment;
   O.   Garbage;
   P.   Rubbish;
   Q.   Yard waste;
   R.   Floatable materials; and
   S.   Any other item deemed a pollutant as designated by the city engineer.
(Ord. 4762, 3-14-2005)
8-4A-8: STORM WATER MONITORING SITES:
The city engineer shall monitor concentration of pollutants in storm water
discharges from locations as designated in the city storm water management
program, or as otherwise determined by the city engineer. (Ord. 4762, 3-14-
2005)
8-4A-9: WATERCOURSE PROTECTION:
Every person owning property in the city through which a watercourse passes, or
other responsible person, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse
that is within their property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and
other obstacles that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the
flow of water through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or other
responsible person shall maintain existing privately owned structures within or
adjacent to a watercourse, so that such structures shall not become a hazard to
the use, function, or physical integrity of the watercourse. (Ord. 4762, 3-14-
2005)
8-4A-10: MANAGEMENT OF STORM WATER POLLUTANTS BY USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT
PRACTICES (BMPs):
   A.   The city engineer may adopt requirements identifying best management
practices (BMPs) for any activity, operation, or facility that may cause or
contribute to pollution or contamination of storm water runoff in the MS4.
Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the requirements of this section shall
not apply to any activity, operation, or facility that is subject to an NPDES
permit that governs the storm water runoff or discharges of such activity,
operation, or facility, except as may be necessary for the owner or operator to
comply with requirements of the applicable NPDES permit.
   B.   The owner or operator of a nonresidential establishment shall provide,
at his own expense, reasonable protection from accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other wastes into the MS4 or watercourses through the
use of structural and nonstructural BMPs.
   C.   Any person responsible for a property or premises which is, or may be,
the source of an illicit discharge may be required to implement, at said
person's expense, additional structural and nonstructural BMPs to prevent the
further discharge of pollutants to the MS4. Compliance, to the maximum extent
practicable, with all terms and conditions of a valid NPDES permit authorizing
the discharge of storm water associated with any activity, operation, or
facility shall be deemed in compliance with the provisions of this section.
Structural and nonstructural BMPs shall be part of a storm water pollution
prevention plan (SWPPP) as necessary for compliance with requirements of an
applicable NPDES permit. (Ord. 4762, 3-14-2005)
8-4A-11: SUSPENSION OF DISCHARGE RIGHTS DUE TO ILLICIT DISCHARGES IN EMERGENCY
SITUATIONS:
   A.   The city engineer may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge
rights to a person when such suspension is necessary to stop actual or
threatened discharge that presents, or may present, imminent and substantial
danger to the environment, health or welfare of persons, or to the MS4. If the
violator fails to comply with a suspension order issued in an emergency, the
city engineer may take such steps as are, in the discretion of the city
engineer, deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4, or to
minimize danger to persons.
   B.   A person violates this article if the person reinstates MS4 discharge
to a premises terminated pursuant to this article, without the prior written
approval of the city engineer. (Ord. 4762, 3-14-2005)
8-4A-12: SUSPENSION OF ACTION DUE TO DETECTION OF ILLICIT DISCHARGE IN
NONEMERGENCY SITUATIONS:
   A.   Any person discharging to the MS4 in violation of this article may have
his MS4 discharge rights terminated if such termination would abate or reduce
an illicit discharge. The city engineer shall notify a violator of the proposed
termination of his MS4 discharge rights no less than thirty (30) days before
the date of proposed termination. The violator may petition the city engineer
for a reconsideration and hearing.
   B.   A person violates this article if the person reinstates MS4 discharge
to a premises terminated pursuant to this article, without the prior written
approval of the city engineer. (Ord. 4762, 3-14-2005)
8-4A-13: MONITORING OF DISCHARGES:
   A.   The city engineer, bearing proper credentials and identification, may
enter and inspect properties within the city if there is reasonable cause to
believe that an illicit discharge to the MS4 is occurring. These inspections
may include investigations, monitoring, observation, measurement, enforcement,
sampling, and testing, to determine if suspected discharge is in fact illicit.
   B.   The city engineer shall duly notify the owner of said property, or the
representative of the owner or other responsible person on site, of the
inspection. The inspection shall be conducted at reasonable times during the
course of the business day.
   C.   In the event the city engineer reasonably believes that discharges from
the property into the MS4 may cause an imminent and substantial threat to human
health or the environment, the inspection may take place without notice to the
owner of the property or a representative on site. The inspector shall present
proper credentials upon reasonable request by the owner or the owner's
representative when contacted.
   D.   Upon refusal by any property owner to permit an inspector to enter a
site or continue an inspection, the inspector shall terminate the inspection or
confine the inspection to areas to which no objection is raised. The inspector
shall immediately report the refusal, and the grounds of the refusal, to the
city engineer. The city engineer may seek appropriate compulsory process.
   E.   The city engineer shall have the right to place devices on the property
necessary, in the discretion of the city engineer, to conduct monitoring and/or
sampling of discharges. (Ord. 4762, 3-14-2005)
8-4A-14: NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS:
Notwithstanding any other requirements of law, as soon as any person
responsible for an activity, operation, or facility, or responsible for
emergency response for an activity, operation, or facility, has information of
any known or suspected release of materials which are resulting or may result
in illicit discharges or pollutants discharging into storm water, the storm
water drainage system, waters of the state, or waters of the United States from
said activity, operation, or facility, said person shall take all necessary
steps to ensure the discovery, containment, and cleanup of such release. In the
event of such a release of hazardous material, said person shall immediately
notify emergency response officials of the occurrence via emergency dispatch
services (911). In the event of a release of nonhazardous materials, said
person shall notify the city engineer in person or by phone or facsimile no
later than five o'clock (5:00) P.M. the next business day. Notifications in
person or by phone shall be confirmed by written notice addressed and mailed to
the city engineer within three (3) business days of the telephonic notice. If
the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or industrial
establishment, the owner or operator shall also retain an on site written
record of the discharge and the actions taken to prevent its recurrence. Such
records shall be retained for at least three (3) years. (Ord. 4762, 3-14-2005)
8-4A-15: ENFORCEMENT; NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
When the city engineer finds that a person has violated a prohibition or failed
to meet a requirement of this article, the city engineer shall notify the
property owner or other responsible person in writing. This written notice may
be delivered by ordinary mail to the property owner or other responsible person
at its last known address. Such notice shall include:
   A.   Name of the property owner;
   B.   Date and the location of the violation;
   C.   Description of the violation;
   D.   Actions that must be taken by the property owner to remedy the
violation, including, but not limited to, the elimination of illicit discharges
and connections, the performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting, and
the implementation of source control or treatment BMPs;
   E.   Deadline by which the required actions must be completed;
   F.   Notice date;
   G.   Restoration procedures to property, if any; and
   H.   Amount of administrative and remediation fines, fees, or costs, if any.
The notice shall also advise that, if the violator fails to take required
remedial action within the stated deadline, the work may be done by a
designated governmental agency or a private contractor, in either case, at the
sole expense of the violator. (Ord. 4762, 3-14-2005)
8-4A-16: APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of the
city engineer. The notice of appeal must be received within fourteen (14) days
from the date of the notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal before the city
council, or other designated committee, shall take place within fourteen (14)
days from the date of receipt of the notice of appeal. The decision of the city
council shall be considered final. (Ord. 4762, 3-14-2005)
8-4A-17: ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL:
If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth
in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within fourteen (14)
days of the decision of the city council upholding the decision of the city
engineer, the city engineer shall enter upon the subject property and take
measures necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the property to an
acceptable condition. It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to allow
the city, or the city's designated contractor, to enter upon the premises for
the purposes set forth above. (Ord. 4762, 3-14-2005)
8-4A-18: COST OF ABATEMENT OF VIOLATION:
After abatement of the violation, the owner of the property shall be notified
of the cost of abatement, including administrative costs. The property owner
may, within thirty (30) days following notice of abatement costs, file a
written protest objecting to the amount of the assessment. If the amount due is
not paid within a timely manner as determined by the city engineer, the
assessment shall constitute a lien on the property pursuant to Iowa Code
section 384.84. Any abatement costs not paid in full within thirty (30) days of
final determination shall bear interest at the rate of ten percent (10%) per
annum until paid in full. (Ord. 4762, 3-14-2005)
8-4A-19: INJUNCTIVE RELIEF:
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate, or fail to comply with, any of
the requirements of this article. If a person has violated, or continues to
violate, the provisions of this article, the city engineer may petition for a
preliminary or permanent injunction restraining the person from activities
which would create further violations or compelling the person to perform
abatement or remediation of the violation. (Ord. 4762, 3-14-2005)
8-4A-20: COMPENSATORY ACTION:
In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties, and remedies authorized by this
article, the city engineer may impose upon a violator alternative compensatory
actions. These actions may include, but are not limited to, storm drain
labeling, attendance at storm water pollution prevention compliance workshops,
the cleanup of local waterways or creeks, or other activity as determined
appropriate by the city engineer. The failure of any person to complete any
compensatory actions imposed by the city engineer shall be a violation of this
article. (Ord. 4762, 3-14-2005)
8-4A-21: VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE:
In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any condition
caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this
article shall be considered a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and
is declared and deemed a nuisance. This nuisance may be summarily abated or
restored at the violator's expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin, or
otherwise compel the cessation of such nuisance may be taken. (Ord. 4762, 3-14-
2005)
8-4A-22: MUNICIPAL INFRACTION:
   A.   A violation of this article constitutes a municipal infraction under
this code.
   B.   In addition to any fine or penalty, the city may recover all legal
fees, court costs and other expenses associated with enforcement of this
article, including necessary sampling and monitoring expenses. (Ord. 4762, 3-
14-2005)
8-4A-23: REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The remedies listed in this article are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal, state or local law. It is within the
discretion of the city engineer to seek cumulative remedies if necessary. (Ord.
4762, 3-14-2005)
8-4A-24: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This article is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. Where this article and another
ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap in
jurisdiction, whichever regulation imposes the greater restriction shall be
enforced. (Ord. 4762, 3-14-2005)
8-4A-25: SEVERABILITY:
The provisions of this article are hereby declared to be severable. If any
provision, clause, sentence, or paragraph of this article or the application
thereof to any person, establishment, or circumstances shall be held invalid,
such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions or applications of this
article. (Ord. 4762, 3-14-2005)
8-4A-26: ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY:
The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this article are
minimum standards; therefore, this article does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person shall ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants into the MS4, waters of the
state, or waters of the United States. (Ord. 4762, 3-14-2005)
ARTICLE B. CONSTRUCTION SITE EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
SECTION:
8-4B-1: Findings
8-4B-2: Definitions
8-4B-3: Submission And Approval Of Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan And
Other Documents
8-4B-4: Transfer And Termination Of State NPDES General Permits And Stormwater
Pollution Prevention Plan Obligations
8-4B-5: Inspection Procedures
8-4B-6: Monitoring Procedures
8-4B-7: Construction Site Runoff (CSR) Permits
8-4B-8: Enforcement
8-4B-9: Appeal
8-4B-10: Severability
8-4B-1: FINDINGS:
   A.   The U.S. EPA's national pollutant discharge elimination system
("NPDES") permit program ("program") administered by the Iowa department of
natural resources ("IDNR") requires certain persons engaged in construction
activities to submit an application to the IDNR for a state NPDES general
permit no. 2 ("state permit"). Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter,
every permit applicant bears final and complete responsibility for compliance
with a state permit and any other requirement of state or federal law or
administrative rule.
   B.   As a condition of the city's municipal separate storm sewer system
(MS4) permit, the city is obliged to undertake primary supervisory
responsibility for administration and enforcement of the program by adopting a
construction site erosion and sediment control ordinance. In furtherance of
this objective:
      1.   Any person, firm, sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
state agency or political subdivision (each an "applicant") required by law or
administrative rule to apply to the IDNR for a state permit shall apply for
such permit and shall submit a stormwater pollution prevention plan ("SWPPP")
to the city engineer for approval. For purposes of this article, an applicant
includes, but is not limited to, a secondary applicant, and each secondary
applicant is subject to all provisions of this article that are applicable to
an applicant unless otherwise expressly stated. The applicant shall not submit
the notice of intent for said state permit until the city engineer has reviewed
the SWPPP for completeness and for compliance with the state permit and city
requirements.
      2.   The applicant shall have primary responsibility for the SWPPP
design, inspection, monitoring and enforcement procedures required to promote
applicant's compliance with the state permit for said site, but other persons
may perform the SWPPP design, installation, inspection, and monitoring under
the oversight of the applicant.
      3.   A state permit and SWPPP are not required for construction sites
with an area of disturbed land that is less than one acre, provided such land
is not part of a larger common plan of development. However, it is recommended
that the owner implement erosion control measures as described in the brochure
"City Of Waterloo Best Management Practices For Single Lots", available upon
request at the city engineer's office and the city building department.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city desires to provide limited stormwater
oversight of all construction sites and for such purposes a local construction
site runoff permit shall be required for stormwater discharges from all
construction sites as identified in subsection
8-4B-7A of this article, even if otherwise exempted from state permit and SWPPP
requirements.
   C.   No state or federal funds have been made available to assist the city
in administering and enforcing the program. Accordingly, the city may choose to
fund its application, inspection, monitoring and enforcement responsibilities
in whole or in part by fees imposed on applicants for permits that may be
required hereunder, with such fees to be determined from time to time by
resolution of the city council, and/or other sources of funding established by
a separate ordinance. (Ord. 5218, 5-19-2014)
8-4B-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Terms or acronyms used in this article shall, unless defined in this
article, have the meanings given to them in section
8-4-1 of this chapter.
APPLICANT: Also includes any person that has had a state permit issued to it,
including, but not limited to, a secondary applicant.
APPLICANT'S ENGINEER: A licensed professional engineer, registered architect,
registered landscape architect, licensed professional land surveyor,
construction contractor, or any other person as expressly and specifically
approved by the city engineer who is deemed qualified to prepare an SWPPP in
accordance with good engineering practices.
CSR PERMIT: A permit issued by the city engineer as provided in section
8-4B-7 of this article for all construction sites from which a discharge of
stormwater is possible.
CITY ENGINEER: Includes any other representative of the city engineer's office
that is designated by the city engineer to act in the place and with the
authority of the city engineer. As so defined, the city engineer is also
referred to in this article as the "enforcement officer".
SWPPP MANAGER: A person qualified by sufficient knowledge of SWPPP design and
implementation and of applicable regulations to perform the inspection,
monitoring, enforcement and reporting necessary to comply with the state
permit, SWPPP requirements and city regulations as applicable. The SWPPP
manager, unless otherwise specified in writing by the applicant, shall serve as
the point of contact for the city engineer for all matters pertaining to SWPPP
compliance for the site.
SECONDARY APPLICANT: Any applicant that is the transferee of responsibility
under the state permit and an SWPPP with respect to a single lot that was, as
to any predecessor applicant, part of a larger common plan of housing
development.
STATE PERMIT: A state NPDES general permit no. 2 issued by IDNR. (Ord. 5218, 5-
19-2014)
8-4B-3: SUBMISSION AND APPROVAL OF STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN AND
OTHER DOCUMENTS:
   A.   No person shall begin work on any site that is subject to a state
permit until the city engineer has approved the SWPPP and the applicant is in
possession of a state permit authorization letter.
   B.   An applicant shall submit to the city complete copies of the materials
described below:
      1.   All plans, specifications, calculations, and supporting materials
utilized to develop the applicant's SWPPP;
      2.   The notice of intent and the state permit letter of authorization.
The applicant may elect to submit its SWPPP and supporting documentation for
review prior to receipt of the IDNR letter of authorization, however, final
approval of the SWPPP cannot be granted by the city engineer until the letter
of authorization is received; and
      3.   The SWPPP shall be prepared in accordance with this chapter. Every
SWPPP submitted to the city:
         a.   Shall comply with all current minimum mandatory requirements for
SWPPPs promulgated by the IDNR in connection with issuance of a state permit,
as set out in the current version of the IDNR publication entitled, "Iowa
Department Of Natural Resources NPDES General Permit No. 2, Storm Water
Discharge Associated With Industrial Activity For Construction Activities" (the
"permit handbook"), including, but not limited to, "Part IV. Storm Water
Pollution Prevention Plans", and as said minimum mandatory requirements are
modified from time to time hereafter; and
         b.   Shall, if the applicant is required by law to file a joint
application form, "protecting Iowa waters, Iowa department of natural resources
and U.S. army corps of engineers", comply with all mandatory minimum
requirements pertaining to such joint application, and copies of the joint
application permit shall be included within the SWPPP; and
         c.   Shall comply with all other applicable state or federal permit
requirements in existence at the time of application; and
         d.   Shall be prepared by the applicant's engineer and shall include
within the SWPPP a signed and dated certification by the applicant's engineer
that the SWPPP complies with all requirements of this chapter.
         e.   Shall require the signature(s) identified in subsection
8-4B-1B1 of this article upon the following certification:
I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gathered and evaluated the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
and imprisonment for knowing violations.
         f.   Shall also contain the following certification signed by all
contractors and subcontractors identified in the SWPPP:
I certify under penalty of law that I understand the terms and conditions of
the general National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit that
authorizes the storm water discharges associated with activity from the
construction site as part of this certification. Further, by my signature, I
understand that I am becoming a co- permittee, along with the owner(s) and
other contractors and subcontractors signing such certifications, to the Iowa
Department of Natural Resources NPDES General Permit No. 2 for "Storm Water
Discharge Associated with Industrial Activity for Construction Activities" at
the identified site. As a co-permittee, I understand that I, and my company,
are legally required under the Clean Water Act and the Code of Iowa, to ensure
compliance with the terms and conditions of the storm water pollution plan
developed under this NPDES permit and the terms of the NPDES permit.
The certification must include the name and title of the person providing the
signature; the name, address and telephone number of the contracting firm; the
address (or other identifying description) of the site; and the date the
certification is made.
         g.   Shall include the applicant's signed written statement required
by subsection B3f of this section.
   C.   A secondary applicant shall submit to the city complete copies of the
materials described below:
      1.   The document by which the predecessor applicant transferred
compliance responsibility under the state permit.
      2.   All information or documents required by the CSR permit application
form as provided in subsection
8-4B-7A of this article.
   D.   In addition to the SWPPP requirements stated in subsections B and C of
this section which constitute minimum mandatory requirements imposed by the
program, every SWPPP submitted to the city shall comply with statewide urban
design and specifications (SUDAS) standard design criteria, the "Iowa
Construction Site Erosion Control Manual", or other standards approved by the
city engineer, as such manual, SUDAS, and other standards may be revised or
amended from time to time, including, but not limited to, design, location, and
phased implementation of effective, practicable stormwater pollution prevention
measures, and shall also:
      1.   Identify the nature of the construction activity and the potential
for sediment and other pollutant discharges from the site; and
      2.   Assure that stockpiles of soil or other materials subject to erosion
by wind or water are covered, vegetated, or otherwise effectively protected
from erosion and sedimentation in accordance with the amount of time the
material will be on site and the manner of its proposed use; no overnight
stockpiling is allowed in the street unless approved in advance by the city
engineer, and subject to such conditions for approval as may be stated by the
city engineer; and
      3.   Assure that, until work on the site has been completed, all
construction waste materials (including, but not limited to, all scrap and
debris) shall be disposed of at the end of each working day in a dumpster of
appropriate size and shall not be stockpiled on the site unless in a covered
and enclosed structure or trailer; that dumpsters on site are inspected
periodically for leaks and promptly repaired or replaced if found to be
leaking; and that dumpsters are emptied by regular waste collection methods
before dumpsters overflow; and
      4.   Identify measures and procedures to reasonably minimize site soil
compaction and provide soil quality restoration as specified and estimated
runoff coefficient after the project is complete; and
      5.   Assure disposal of all collected sediment and floating debris; and
      6.   Identify methods to prevent sediment damage to adjacent properties
and sensitive environmental areas such as water bodies, plant communities,
rare, threatened and/or endangered species habitat, wildlife corridors,
greenways, etc.; and
      7.   Provide for design and construction methods to stabilize steep or
long continuous slopes; and
      8.   Include measures to control the quantity and quality of stormwater
leaving a site before, during and after construction; and
      9.   Provide for stabilization of all waterways and outlets; and
      10.   Protect storm sewer infrastructure from sediment loading and/or
plugging; and
      11.   Assure stabilization of disturbed areas, including utility
construction areas, as soon as possible and in no event later than the time
frames established by the current state permit; and
      12.   Protect outlying roads from sediment and mud from construction site
activities, including preventing tracking; and
      13.   Assure that all temporary erosion and sediment controls shall not
be removed until the city has determined that the site has been permanently
stabilized in compliance with the state permit or IDNR notice of
discontinuation; and
      14.   Specify precautions to be taken to contain sediment when working in
or crossing surface waters, including, but not limited to, surface waters
located solely on the project property; and
      15.   Assure that when working near surface waters, including, but not
limited to, surface waters located solely on the project property, the specific
practices itemized immediately below are utilized:
         a.   During construction:
            (1)   All exposed soil areas with a slope of three to one (3:1) or
steeper, and that have a continuous positive slope to a surface water, shall
have temporary erosion protection or permanent cover within three (3) days
after the area is no longer actively being worked; and
            (2)   All other slopes that have a continuous positive slope to a
surface water should have temporary erosion protection or permanent cover
within seven (7) days after the area is no longer actively being worked.
         b.   Buffer zone: Reserved.
      16.   Assure that required temporary sediment basins shall be constructed
in accordance with the state permit; all supporting calculations for the basin
sizing criteria and outlet channel sizing and velocity shall be submitted to
the city; and
      17.   Assure that all hazardous materials are properly used, stored, and
disposed of.
   E.   Performance security: Reserved.
   F.   The applicant shall also submit a signed written statement to the city
which states as follows:
The undersigned Applicant hereby agrees to defend, indemnify and hold the City
of Waterloo harmless from any and all claims, damages or suits arising directly
or indirectly out of any act of commission or omission by the Applicant, or any
employee, agent, assignee or contractor or subcontractor of the Applicant, in
connection with Applicant's State NPDES General Permit No. 2 and/or Storm Water
Pollution Prevention Plan.
   G.   The city shall send written notification to the applicant's engineer of
the approval of the applicant's SWPPP within ten (10) business days following
the submission of all documents and information required under this section,
unless the city has provided to the applicant's engineer a written bill of
particulars identifying noncomplying elements of the SWPPP. The city shall not
issue approval of the applicant's SWPPP until such noncomplying elements of the
SWPPP have been corrected, and until the SWPPP complies with the applicant's
state permit, the requirements of this chapter, and all other applicable laws
and regulations, federal, state, and local. If the applicant's SWPPP is for a
single lot located in a larger common plan of housing development, the city's
processing time shall be reduced from ten (10) business days to five (5)
business days.
   H.   The applicant or applicant's SWPPP manager shall retain a copy of the
approved SWPPP, all required SWPPP inspections and reporting documents, and
state permit on site or at a readily available and disclosed alternative site
so said documents can be provided for inspection in keeping with the
requirements of the state permit.
   I.   The city's review of an applicant's SWPPP is not a determination as to
the effectiveness of the controls selected.
   J.   For so long as a construction site is subject to a state permit, the
applicant or applicant's SWPPP manager shall provide the city with current
information as follows:
      1.   The name, address and telephone number of the SWPPP manager and any
other person on site designated by the applicant or the applicant's SWPPP
manager who is knowledgeable and experienced in erosion and sediment control
and who will oversee compliance with the state permit; and
      2.   The name(s), address(es) and telephone number(s) of the contractor
(s) and/or subcontractor(s) that will implement each erosion and sediment
control measure identified in the SWPPP.
The above said information shall be provided to the city within seventy two
(72) hours of the change of or addition of personnel, contractors or
subcontractors. Applicant's or applicant's SWPPP manager's failure to provide
current information shall constitute a violation of this article.
   K.   The applicant or applicant's SWPPP manager shall amend the SWPPP as
required by the state permit, which generally shall be whenever there is a
change in design, construction, operation or maintenance which has a
significant effect on the potential for discharge of pollutants to the waters
of the United States and which has not been addressed in the SWPPP, or if the
SWPPP proves to be ineffective in eliminating or significantly minimizing
pollutants from sources identified in the SWPPP, or in otherwise achieving the
general objectives of controlling pollutants in stormwater discharge associated
with industrial activity for construction activities. The applicant or
applicant's SWPPP manager shall also expeditiously update the SWPPP to include
site changes with changes identified on the site map; contractors identified
after the submittal of the notice of intent; changes in ownership or
transference of permit and permit responsibilities; or, if required,
occurrences of hazardous conditions. (Ord. 5218, 5-19-2014)
8-4B-4: TRANSFER AND TERMINATION OF STATE NPDES GENERAL PERMITS AND STORMWATER
POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN OBLIGATIONS:
   A.   The owner of real property that is the subject of a state permit may
transfer responsibility under the owner's SWPPP to one or more transferees of
all or part of such property in the same manner that responsibility for
compliance with a state permit can be transferred pursuant to 567 Iowa
administrative code section 64.6(6), or any similar successor provision. Such
an owner is a "transferor". Each transferee must agree to the transfer in
writing and must agree to fulfill all obligations of the state permit and the
SWPPP, including submission of a statement signed by the transferee as provided
for in subsection
8-4B-3F of this article. The transferor shall file with the office of the city
engineer a copy of all documents filed with IDNR in connection with transfer of
responsibility under the state permit to each such transferee, and a copy of
each such transferee's agreement to fulfill all obligations of the SWPPP.
Absent written confirmation of transfer of obligations that includes all
documents set forth in this subsection, the transferor remains responsible for
compliance with the SWPPP on any property that has been sold, conveyed, or
otherwise transferred.
   B.   All documents and information required by the IDNR to be filed to
terminate the state permit must be filed by the transferor concurrently with
the office of the city engineer. The city engineer must confirm stabilization
and removal of temporary control measures as required by subsection
8-4B-5G of this article before a notice of discontinuation can be filed. Upon
submission of said materials to the city, the city shall have thirty (30) days
in which to request additional information from the transferor before the SWPPP
shall be deemed terminated.
   C.   To facilitate a transferee's compliance with this article as a
secondary applicant, the transferor shall also deliver to the transferee
concurrently with the filings required by subsection B of this section a copy
of the transferor's notice of intent, state permit number, SWPPP public
notification, and SWPPP. (Ord. 5218, 5-19-2014)
8-4B-5: INSPECTION PROCEDURES:
   A.   All inspections undertaken by the city under this article shall be
conducted by the enforcement officer.
   B.   Prior to beginning construction, the applicant or applicant's SWPPP
manager shall contact the city to schedule a preconstruction site inspection.
The enforcement officer shall inspect the permitted site to determine that, at
minimum, the control measures listed in the SWPPP that allow for construction
to commence have been properly installed. If the enforcement officer determines
that compliance has not been achieved, the enforcement officer shall provide to
the applicant a written bill of particulars identifying the conditions of
noncompliance. The applicant shall immediately commence corrective action and
shall complete such corrective action within the time frame allotted by the
enforcement officer in his discretion, but not exceeding seventy two (72)
hours. For good cause shown, the city may extend the deadline for taking
corrective action. Failure to take corrective action in a timely manner shall
constitute a violation of this article.
   C.   Construction shall not occur on any area of the site that the
enforcement officer has designated at any time while conditions of
noncompliance that have been identified by the enforcement officer continue to
exist.
   D.   Construction activities undertaken by an applicant before resolution of
all discrepancies specified in the bill of particulars, if undertaken in an
area designated by the enforcement officer as a prohibited area, shall
constitute a violation of this article.
   E.   The city shall not be responsible for the direct or indirect
consequences to the applicant or to third parties for noncompliant conditions
that were undetected by inspection or that were undetected because the city, in
operating its program of random inspections, did not inspect the property.
   F.   The applicant, the applicant's SWPPP manager or a qualified person
designated by the applicant's SWPPP manager shall inspect the permitted site,
as well as any transferred sites which the applicant is a copermittee of, no
less than once every seven (7) calendar days. Reports generated by these site
inspections shall be included within and deemed to be part of the SWPPP. Any
deficiencies or needed modifications discovered during the inspections shall be
noted in writing, and corrections or modifications shall be completed within
seven (7) calendar days following the inspection.
   G.   Before a notice of discontinuation of the state permit can be submitted
to the IDNR, the applicant or the applicant's SWPPP manager shall contact the
city to schedule a postconstruction site inspection. The enforcement officer
shall inspect the permitted site to determine that all disturbed areas have
achieved stabilization as required by the state permit and all temporary
control measures have been removed. If the enforcement officer determines that
stabilization has not been achieved, or temporary control measures need to be
removed, the enforcement officer shall provide to the applicant or the
applicant's SWPPP manager a written bill of particulars identifying the
conditions of noncompliance. The applicant or applicant's SWPPP manager shall
immediately commence corrective action and shall reschedule a postconstruction
inspection with the city when the required corrective actions have been
completed. (Ord. 5218, 5-19-2014)
8-4B-6: MONITORING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Upon receipt of a state permit, the applicant and the applicant's SWPPP
manager have an absolute duty to monitor site conditions and to report to the
enforcement officer any change of circumstances or site conditions which the
applicant or the applicant's SWPPP manager knows or should know pose a risk of
stormwater discharge in a manner inconsistent with applicant's state permit.
Examples of conditions that require notification include, but are not limited
to: 1) hazardous material spills, 2) failure of site perimeter BMPs, 3)
discharge of polluted waters from the site into the MS4 or onto neighboring
properties or nearby surface waters, or 4) proposed implementation of BMPs on
site that deviate significantly from the BMPs proposed in the approved SWPPP.
      1.   Such report shall be submitted to the enforcement officer within
twenty four (24) hours of the change of circumstances or site conditions.
      2.   Failure to make a timely report shall constitute a violation of this
article.
   B.   Any third party may also report to the city site conditions, which the
third party reasonably believes pose a risk of stormwater discharge in a manner
inconsistent with applicant's state permit.
   C.   Upon receiving a report pursuant to subsection A of this section, the
enforcement officer may conduct an inspection and thereafter shall provide the
applicant or the applicant's SWPPP manager with a written bill of particulars
identifying any conditions of noncompliance. The applicant or the applicant's
SWPPP manager shall immediately commence corrective action and shall complete
such corrective action within the time frame allotted by the enforcement
officer in his discretion, but not exceeding seventy two (72) hours. For good
cause shown, the city may extend the deadline for completing corrective action.
Failure to take corrective action in a timely manner shall constitute a
violation of this article, whereupon the enforcement officer shall immediately
commence enforcement actions specified in section
8-4B-8 of this article.
   D.   Upon receiving a report from a third party pursuant to subsection B of
this section, the enforcement officer may conduct an inspection of the site as
soon as reasonably possible and thereafter shall provide the applicant or the
applicant's SWPPP manager with a written bill of particulars identifying any
conditions of noncompliance. The applicant or the applicant's SWPPP manager
shall immediately commence corrective action and shall complete such corrective
action within the time frame allotted by the enforcement officer in his
discretion, but not exceeding seventy two (72) hours. For good cause shown, the
city may extend the deadline for completing corrective action. Failure to take
corrective action in a timely manner shall constitute a violation of this
article, whereupon the enforcement officer shall immediately commence
enforcement actions specified in section
8-4B-8 of this article.
   E.   The enforcement officer may conduct one or more unannounced inspections
at any time during the course of construction to monitor compliance with the
state permit and the approved SWPPP. If the inspection discloses any
noncompliance, the enforcement officer shall provide the applicant or the
applicant's SWPPP manager with a written bill of particulars identifying the
conditions of noncompliance. The applicant or the applicant's SWPPP manager
shall immediately commence corrective action and shall complete such corrective
action within the time frame allotted by the enforcement officer in his
discretion, but not exceeding seventy two (72) hours. For good cause shown, the
city may extend the deadline for completing corrective action. Failure to take
corrective action in a timely manner shall constitute a violation of this
article, whereupon the enforcement officer shall immediately commence
enforcement actions specified in section
8-4B-8 of this article.
   F.   The city shall not be responsible for the direct or indirect
consequences to the applicant or to third parties for noncompliant conditions
that were undetected by inspection or that were undetected because the city, in
operating its program of random inspections, did not inspect the property.
(Ord. 5218, 5-19-2014)
8-4B-7: CONSTRUCTION SITE RUNOFF (CSR) PERMITS:
   A.   All construction sites requiring coverage under a state permit, as well
as other activities requiring building permits for new residential or new
commercial construction, shall obtain a CSR permit from the city engineer.
Issuance of the CSR permit requires that the applicant submit a completed city
of Waterloo CSR permit application form and submit a site plan identifying
BMPs, building, parking and driveway footprint, and direction of flow for site
runoff. Sites that must provide an SWPPP as required by a state permit need not
submit a separate site plan for their CSR permit.
   B.   Sites applying for a CSR permit that are not subject to a state permit
shall meet the following requirements:
      1.   Submit a CSR permit application and related documents as described
in subsection A of this section.
      2.   Implement and maintain BMPs sufficient to prevent the discharge of
pollutants from the site in conformity with the requirements described in
subsections
8-4B-3D2, D3 and D5 through D17 of this article.
      3.   Contact the city engineer for a preconstruction inspection prior to
commencing land disturbing activities and provide access to the enforcement
officer as needed to determine compliance with rules set forth in article A of
this chapter and this article.
      4.   Keep plans current and provide notification to the city engineer
within seventy two (72) hours of the change or addition of personnel,
contractors or subcontractors, or of a substantial change of site conditions as
described in subsection
8-4B-3K of this article.
      5.   Contact the city engineer for a postconstruction inspection once the
site has reached seventy percent (70%) uniform coverage with perennial
vegetation or equivalent stabilization and all temporary erosion control
measures have been removed.
   C.   CSR permits issued to sites covered by a state permit shall remain
valid until such time as the state permit authorization expires or thirty (30)
days after a notice of discontinuation is submitted to the IDNR and the city
engineer. If the state permit is renewed prior to expiration, the applicant
must provide proof of reauthorization to the city engineer. Failure to provide
proof of reauthorization shall be considered a violation of this article. In
the event that a state permit is suspended, the CSR permit shall automatically
expire, and the applicant must thereafter reapply for a CSR permit before
resumption of permitted activities. State permit discontinuation or suspension
is subject to a postconstruction inspection.
   D.   CSR permits issued to sites not covered by a state permit shall expire
one year from the date of CSR permit issuance. If construction has not been
completed before the date the CSR permit expires, the applicant shall renew the
permit. Failure to renew the permit shall be considered a violation of this
article. Closure of a CSR permit is subject to a postconstruction inspection.
(Ord. 5218, 5-19-2014)
8-4B-8: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Violation of any provision of this article may be enforced: 1) by
issuance of a stop work order by the enforcement officer, 2) by suspension of
building permit inspections until the deficient condition is remedied, or 3) by
civil action, administrative or judicial, including, but not limited to, an
action for injunctive relief. A stop work order shall specify the violation(s)
and shall remain in effect until the deficient condition has been remedied.
   B.   Violation of any provision of this article shall constitute a municipal
infraction under this code. A person may be cited for subsequent violations as
additional violations are discovered or as SWPPP control elements fail. Each
day that a municipal infraction occurs or is permitted to exist constitutes a
separate offense.
   C.   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided herein,
any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the
provisions of this article shall be considered a threat to public health,
safety, and welfare, and is declared and deemed a nuisance. This nuisance may
be summarily abated or remedied at the violator's expense.
   D.   In addition to any fine or penalty set forth in a schedule of
violations adopted by the city, as amended thereafter from time to time, the
city may recover all attorney fees, court costs and other expenses associated
with enforcement of this article, including necessary monitoring expenses.
   E.   The remedies listed in this article are not exclusive of any other
remedies available under any applicable federal, state or local law. It is
within the discretion of the enforcement officer to seek cumulative remedies if
necessary. Enforcement pursuant to this section shall be undertaken by the
enforcement officer upon the advice and consent of the city attorney. (Ord.
5218, 5-19-2014)
8-4B-9: APPEAL:
   A.   Administrative decisions by city staff and enforcement actions of the
enforcement officer may be appealed by the applicant to the city council
pursuant to the following rules:
      1.   The appeal must be filed in writing with the city clerk within
twenty (20) business days of the decision or enforcement action.
      2.   The written appeal shall specify in detail the action appealed from,
the errors allegedly made by the enforcement officer giving rise to the appeal,
and the relief requested.
      3.   The enforcement officer shall specify in writing the reasons for the
enforcement action, a written summary of all oral and written testimony the
enforcement officer intends to introduce at the hearing, including the names
and addresses of all witnesses the enforcement officer intends to call, and
copies of all documents the enforcement officer intends to introduce at the
hearing.
      4.   The city clerk shall notify the applicant and the enforcement
officer by ordinary mail, and shall give public notice in accordance with Iowa
Code chapter 21 of the date, time and place for the regular or special meeting
of the city council at which the hearing on the appeal shall occur. The hearing
shall be scheduled for a date not less than four (4) nor more than twenty (20)
days after the filing of the appeal, unless the applicant requests an extension
of not more than fourteen (14) days. The intent of this subsection A4 is to
promote the prompt and speedy resolution of disputes. The rules of evidence and
procedure, and the standard of proof to be applied, shall be the same as
provided by Iowa Code chapter 17A. The applicant may be represented by counsel
at the applicant's expense. The enforcement officer may be represented by the
city attorney or by an attorney designated by the city council at city expense.
   B.   The decision of the city council shall be rendered in writing and may
be appealed to the Iowa district court as provided by law. (Ord. 5218, 5-19-
2014)
8-4B-10: SEVERABILITY:
The provisions of this article are hereby declared to be severable. If any
section, provision, clause, sentence, paragraph or part of this article or the
application thereof to any person, establishment, or circumstance shall be held
invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall not affect the other
provisions or applications of this article. (Ord. 5218, 5-19-2014)
ARTICLE C. POSTCONSTRUCTION STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
8-4C-1: Findings
8-4C-2: Definitions
8-4C-3: Applicability
8-4C-4: Submission And Approval Of The Postconstruction Stormwater Management
Plan
8-4C-5: Inspection, Maintenance And Repair Of Stormwater Management Facilities
8-4C-6: City Of Waterloo Inspection Procedures
8-4C-7: Corrective Action
8-4C-8: Responsibility
8-4C-9: Enforcement
8-4C-10: Appeal
8-4C-11: Severability
8-4C-1: FINDINGS:
   A.   The U.S. EPA's national pollutant discharge elimination system
("NPDES") permit program ("program") administered by the Iowa department of
natural resources ("IDNR") requires that cities meeting certain demographic and
environmental impact criteria obtain from the INDR an NPDES permit for the
discharge of stormwater from a municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) (the
"MS4 permit"). The city is subject to the program and is required to obtain,
and has obtained, an MS4 permit. The city's MS4 permit is on file at the office
of the city clerk and is available for public inspection during regular office
hours.
   B.   As a condition of the city's MS4 permit, the city is obliged to
develop, implement and enforce a postconstruction stormwater management
ordinance.
   C.   No state or federal funds have been made available to assist the city
with inspections, monitoring activities and/or enforcing the program.
Accordingly, the city shall fund its inspections, monitoring and enforcement
responsibilities entirely by fees imposed on the owners of properties, which
are made subject to the program by virtue of state and federal law, and/or
other funding sources. Fees shall be determined from time to time by resolution
of the city council. (Ord. 5030, 2-21-2011)
8-4C-2: DEFINITIONS:
Terms and acronyms used in this article shall, unless defined in this article,
have the meanings given to them in section
8-4-1 of this chapter.
APPLICANT: Any person, firm, sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
state agency or political subdivision required by this article to develop a
postconstruction stormwater management plan in conjunction with the development
or redevelopment of land within the city of Waterloo.
APPLICANT'S ENGINEER: A licensed professional civil engineer, registered
architect or registered landscape architect employed by the applicant who has
primary responsibility for the design of the PC plan for the applicant's site.
CITY STORMWATER MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS: Are set forth in subsection
8-4C-4C of this article and are based, in part, upon the "Iowa Stormwater
Management Manual".
DRAINAGE EASEMENT: A legal right granted by a landowner to a grantee allowing
the use of private land for stormwater management purposes.
IOWA STORMWATER MANAGEMENT MANUAL: The manual collaboratively developed by the
Iowa department of natural resources (INDR) and the Center For Transportation
Research And Education (CTRE) - now the Institute For Transportation (InTrans)
- at Iowa State University that contains the sizing criteria, design and
specification guidelines and BMPs that address stormwater quality and quantity
management. This manual can be found on the web at the following address: http:
//www.intrans.iastate.edu/pubs/stormwater/index.cfm
POSTCONSTRUCTION STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN (PC PLAN): The set of plans,
specifications, calculations and supporting materials approved by the city that
defines the system of BMPs that are to be constructed and maintained on the
site to handle the quantity and increase the quality of stormwater runoff
created by development.
PROPERTY OWNER: A person who, alone or with another person or other persons,
holds the legal title to property; except, however, where property has been
sold on contract to a person who has the present right to possess the property
and the contract has been filed for record in the office of the county
recorder, in which case the person so purchasing the property, whether alone or
with another person or other persons, is the "property owner", and the person
retaining bare legal title to the property as a security for the balance of the
purchase price is not the "property owner".
REGIONAL STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FACILITY: Facilities designed to accept
stormwater runoff from two (2) or more sites that are required to comply with
all city, state or federal stormwater management requirements.
SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING: A detached residence designed for or occupied by one
family only.
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT: The use of BMPs that are designed in accordance with
city stormwater requirements to reduce stormwater runoff pollutant loads,
discharge volumes, peak flow discharge rates and detrimental changes in stream
temperature that affect water quality and habitat. (Ord. 5030, 2-21-2011)
8-4C-3: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   This article shall apply to all development, redeveloped property or
land disturbing activities within the city of Waterloo meeting the criteria
stated below:
      1.   Land disturbing activity exceeding forty three thousand five hundred
sixty (43,560) square feet or more in area on land previously vacant of
buildings or largely free of previous land disturbing activity; or
      2.   Land disturbing activity creating five thousand (5,000) square feet
or more in area of impervious surface; or
      3.   Land disturbing activity that is smaller than the minimum area
criteria set forth in this subsection, if such activities are part of a larger
common plan of development that may or may not take place at the same time; or
      4.   Construction of new parking and storage areas or the expansion,
reconstruction or hard surfacing of existing parking lots or storage areas. The
addition of granular material to the existing footprint of a granular surfaced
parking lot or storage area shall not be considered reconstruction under this
article.
   B.   Activities exempt from this article:
      1.   Development or redevelopment of property within the central business
district, as defined in the current city of Waterloo zoning ordinance.
      2.   Any additions or modifications to existing single-family dwellings
provided that said additions and/or modifications do not create a dwelling with
impervious surfaces greater than five thousand (5,000) square feet.
      3.   Any logging activity consistent with an approved timber management
plan.
      4.   Any agricultural activity consistent with an approved soil
conservation plan.
   C.   No owner or developer of land subject to this article shall receive any
building permits without first meeting the requirements of this article prior
to commencing the proposed activity. (Ord. 5030, 2-21-2011)
8-4C-4: SUBMISSION AND APPROVAL OF THE POSTCONSTRUCTION STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
PLAN:
   A.   Required Submittals: A complete postconstruction stormwater management
plan (PC plan) requires that the following materials be submitted to the city
engineering department:
      1.   Plans, specifications, calculations and supporting materials
utilized to develop the applicant's PC plan;
      2.   Regional stormwater management facility repair and maintenance
agreement, if applicable;
      3.   Drainage easement, if applicable; and
      4.   Stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP), if applicable.
   B.   Submission Review Process: The city's PC plan submission review process
shall proceed as follows:
      1.   The city shall review the submission for completeness. If an
incomplete submission is received, the review shall be halted and the city
shall inform the applicant of the additional materials that need to be
submitted in order for the review to continue. The PC plan review period will
begin anew when all materials have been submitted.
      2.   If during the review of the applicant's PC plan, elements are found
that do not comply with the requirements of this section, the review shall be
halted and the city shall send a written bill of particulars to the applicant
and the applicant's engineer. The PC plan review period will begin anew when a
revised PC plan is submitted. The city shall not issue approval of a PC plan
until all noncomplying elements have been corrected.
      3.   The city shall send written notification to the applicant and the
applicant's engineer of the approval of the applicant's PC plan within ten (10)
business days following the applicant's submission of a complete and/or revised
PC plan. (Ord. 5030, 2-21-2011)
   C.   PC Plan Requirements: Every PC plan submitted to the city shall include
a plan detailing the control, operation and maintenance of the proposed
stormwater management facility or facilities, shall comply with standards
approved by the city engineer and shall include the following:
      1.   Be prepared by the applicant's engineer;
      2.   The following statement signed and dated by the applicant:
The undersigned Applicant hereby agrees to defend, indemnify and hold the City
of Waterloo harmless from any and all claims, damages or suits arising directly
or indirectly out of any act of commission or omission by the Applicant, or any
employee, agent, assignee or contractor or subcontractor of the Applicant, in
connection with Applicant's Post-Construction Stormwater Management Plan.
      3.   Contact information, including the name, address and phone number of
the property owner(s);
      4.   A map or maps indicating the following:
         a.   The location of existing and proposed:
            (1)   Buildings;
            (2)   Roads;
            (3)   Parking and storage areas;
            (4)   Utilities;
            (5)   Easements;
            (6)   Contours;
            (7)   Drainage patterns;
            (8)   Land disturbance limits;
            (9)   Stormwater management facilities;
            (10)   Sediment, erosion and pollution control BMPs.
         b.   For all developments five (5) acres or greater in size, a map of
the site which extends a minimum of two hundred fifty feet (250') beyond the
limits of the proposed development that indicates existing contours, surface
water drainage, including streams, ponds, culverts, ditches, and wetlands;
current land uses, including all existing structures; locations of utilities,
roads and easements; and significant natural and manmade features.
      5.   A tabulation of the percentage of surface area to be adapted to
various uses.
      6.   The stormwater management facilities constructed shall detain all on
site stormwater runoff equal to the differences between the total stormwater
runoff generated from a 100-year design storm as applied to the entire
property, including the proposed and future, if applicable, improvements and a
5-year design storm as applied to the entire property prior to any development.
Rainfall events, up to and including 1.25 inches of rain, shall be released at
a continuous rate over twenty four (24) hours.
      7.   Hydrologic and hydraulic design calculations for the undeveloped and
postdevelopment conditions for the 5-year, 10-year, and 100-year design storms.
Such calculations shall include:
         a.   Description of the design storm frequency, intensity, duration;
         b.   Time of concentration;
         c.   Soil curve numbers or runoff coefficients;
         d.   Peak runoff rates and total runoff volumes for each watershed
area;
         e.   Infiltration rates, where applicable;
         f.   Culvert capacities;
         g.   Flow velocities;
         h.   Data on the increase in rate and volume of runoff; and
         i.   Documentation of sources for all computation methods and field
test results.
      8.   If a stormwater management facility depends on the hydrologic
properties of the soils (e.g., infiltration basins), then a report detailing
the existing soil conditions and percolation test results shall be submitted.
The soils report shall be based on on site boring logs or soil pit profiles.
The number and location of required soil borings or soil pit profiles shall be
determined based on what is necessary to determine the suitability and
distribution of soil types present at the location of the facility.
The percolation test results shall be based on on site percolation tests. The
number and location of the percolation test sites shall be determined based on
the soils report of the existing soil conditions and the location(s) of the
proposed stormwater management facility.
      9.   For development occurring on a previously developed site, the PC
plan shall include existing stormwater runoff discharges.
      10.   Multiple submissions of a PC plan shall include a summary of
differences between the new PC plan and the previously submitted PC plan.
   D.   Consideration Of Facility Design And Practices: All slopes with a three
to one (3:1) ratio or greater must receive sod, seed with mat cover, fabric
with rock cover, or an equivalent soil stabilization measure approved by the
city engineer. BMPs utilized shall have clear citations to the "Iowa Stormwater
Management Manual", latest edition, or alternative standards as approved by the
city engineer. All landscaping components and soil stabilization practices
shall comply with existing city zoning and stormwater erosion and sediment
control requirements. (Ord. 5268, 3-2-2015)
   E.   Inspection Of Facility: The PC plan shall also include specifications
for the inspection, maintenance and repair of the stormwater facility(ies).
   F.   Conceptual Plan: The city may require that the applicant file a
conceptual plan to analyze the maximum development potential of a site under
existing zoning regulations, regardless of whether the applicant presently
intends to develop the site to its maximum potential.
   G.   Runoff: The proposed stormwater management facilities shall not cause
downstream property owners, watercourses, channels, or conduits to receive
stormwater runoff from the proposed development site at a higher peak flow rate
than that allowed under subsection C6 of this section or the city stormwater
detention policy in effect at the time of approval of the development.
   H.   As Built Drawing: After construction is completed, the applicant shall
submit to the city "as built" drawings of the stormwater management facility,
certified by a licensed professional civil engineer, registered architect or
registered landscape architect.
   I.   Facilities Not Consistent With PC Plan: If the as built stormwater
management facilities were constructed differently than the facilities
described in the approved PC plan, the applicant shall provide to the city
calculations that the constructed stormwater facilities provide the same or
greater stormwater control and treatment as the facilities originally approved
by the city.
   J.   Documentation: In the event the property owner(s) and the city agree
that the constructed stormwater management facilities are to be accepted by the
city, the property owner(s) shall provide documentation as the city determines
is appropriate. This documentation may include, but is not limited to: as built
plans, a two (2) year maintenance bond, construction test results, material
certifications, and itemized construction costs.
   K.   Maintenance And Repair Agreement: If the submitted PC plan is for a
development utilizing a regional stormwater management facility, the applicant
shall submit a maintenance and repair agreement with the PC plan. Said
agreement shall be between the applicant and the owner(s) of the property the
regional stormwater management facility is located on and shall detail the
responsibilities of each party regarding inspection, maintenance and repair of
the facility and the payment of the costs incurred for those activities. This
agreement shall be filed in the office of the county recorder and shall be
binding upon all owners of the properties involved until the facility is
removed or is no longer used by the property sending stormwater.
   L.   Drainage Easement: If the use of a regional stormwater facility
requires the creation of a drainage easement to allow water to flow between
properties, the applicant shall provide copies of the drainage easement between
the owners of the affected properties. This document shall describe the
location of the easement and shall detail the responsibilities of the parties
involved regarding the inspection, maintenance and repair of the easement area
and payment for costs incurred for those activities. This easement shall be
filed in the office of the county recorder and be binding upon all properties
involved until such time as the easement is no longer needed.
   M.   Review Of PC Plan Not Determination Of Effectiveness: The city's review
of the applicant's PC plan is not a determination of the effectiveness of the
controls shown in the PC plan. (Ord. 5030, 2-21-2011)
8-4C-5: INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FACILITIES:
Each property owner(s) and successor property owners shall be responsible for
inspecting and maintaining the stormwater management facilities located on the
property.
The owner(s), successor owners and benefactors of a regional stormwater
management facility shall be jointly and severally responsible for inspecting
and maintaining the regional stormwater management facility.
   A.   Inspections: The property owner(s), successor property owners and
benefactors shall ensure that the stormwater management facilities, devices and
structures are periodically inspected. Periodic inspections shall be completed
as needed and in no case less than one time per year. Failure to conduct
inspections shall be considered a violation of this article. This inspection
requirement shall also apply to all existing stormwater management facilities
constructed before the adoption of this article.
   B.   Maintenance And Repair: All property owner(s), successor property
owners and benefactors of a stormwater management facility shall ensure that
all stormwater management facilities, devices and structures be maintained in
accordance with the approved PC plan to provide for the proper functioning of
the facilities. This maintenance and repair requirement shall also apply to all
existing stormwater management facilities constructed before the adoption of
this article. If facility repairs are needed, the repairs shall be conducted in
a timely manner. Failure to conduct repairs in a timely manner shall be
considered a violation of this article.
   C.   Inspection, Maintenance And Repair Documentation: All inspections,
maintenance and repairs shall be documented. The property owner(s) or their
assigns shall retain these documents for at least ten (10) years. Copies of all
documentation shall be made available to the city upon request.
A copy of the certified "as built" construction plans for the stormwater
management facility shall be included with the inspection, maintenance and
repair documentation. (Ord. 5030, 2-21-2011)
8-4C-6: CITY OF WATERLOO INSPECTION PROCEDURES:
   A.   The city engineer or his designee shall conduct all inspections
undertaken by the city under this article.
   B.   The city shall be permitted to enter and inspect, at any reasonable
time, any property with stormwater management facilities to determine
compliance with this chapter, including stormwater management facilities
constructed before the adoption of this article. Additionally, the city may
request that a property owner verify, through the preparation of plans or a
report completed by an applicant's engineer, that the stormwater management
facilities continue to have the same capacities and operational characteristics
as originally designed and approved.
   C.   Failure of the property owner to allow access to the property shall
constitute a violation of this article. (Ord. 5030, 2-21-2011)
8-4C-7: CORRECTIVE ACTION:
   A.   In the event that a stormwater management facility is found to be in
noncompliance with the approved plans, the city will deliver to the property
owner a written bill of particulars that identifies any noncompliant element or
condition. The property owner shall have fourteen (14) days from the date of
notice to provide to the city a written response outlining the steps and
implementation time lines for corrective action. The property owner shall have
thirty (30) days from the date of notice to complete the corrective action
necessary to bring the stormwater management facility back into compliance with
the approved plans. For good cause shown, the city may extend the deadline for
taking corrective action.
   B.   Following the review of the property owner's written response, if
extenuating circumstances exist which make implementation of the necessary
corrective action difficult to complete within the time period specified above,
the city may, at its sole discretion, grant a reasonable extension of time to
complete the corrective action if requested by the property owner.
   C.   Failure of the property owner to provide a written response or
undertake corrective action shall constitute a violation of this article and
shall be deemed a nuisance, which the city may summarily abate or restore at
the property owner's expense in accordance with the procedures set forth in
section
8-4-15 of this chapter. Appeal of such action shall be pursuant to section
8-4-16 of this chapter and not section
8-4C-10 of this article. The city's costs to abate the nuisance shall, if not
paid, constitute a lien against the property and shall be assessed against the
property pursuant to Iowa Code section 364.12 for collection in the same manner
as a property tax. (Ord. 5030, 2-21-2011)
8-4C-8: RESPONSIBILITY:
The failure of city personnel to observe or foresee hazardous or unsightly
conditions, or to impose other or additional conditions or requirements, or to
deny or revoke permits or approvals, or to stop work in violation of this
chapter, shall not relieve the property owner of the consequences of its acts
or omissions or result in the city, its officers, employees or agents, being
liable therefor or on account thereof. The city shall not be responsible for
the direct or indirect consequences to the applicant or to third parties for
noncompliant conditions that were undetected by inspection or because an
inspection did not occur. (Ord. 5030, 2-21-2011)
8-4C-9: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Violation of any provision of this article may be enforced by issuance
of a stop work order by the city engineer or his designee or by civil action,
administrative or judicial, including, but not limited to, an action for
injunctive relief. A stop work order shall specify the violation(s) and shall
remain in effect until the deficient condition has been remedied.
   B.   Violation of any provision of this article shall constitute a municipal
infraction under this code. A person may be cited for subsequent violations as
additional violations are discovered or as PC plan elements fail. Each day that
a municipal infraction occurs or is permitted to exist constitutes a separate
offense.
   C.   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided herein,
any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the
provisions of this article shall be considered a threat to public health,
safety, and welfare, and is declared and deemed a nuisance. This nuisance may
be abated or remedied at the violator's expense as provided in section
8-4-12 of this chapter, and/or a civil action may be prosecuted to abate,
enjoin, or otherwise compel the cessation of such nuisance. The city's costs to
abate the nuisance shall, if and to the extent not paid, constitute a lien
against the property and shall be assessed against the property pursuant to
Iowa Code section 364.12 for collection in the same manner as a property tax,
in accordance with the procedures set forth in section
8-4-14 of this chapter.
   D.   In addition to any fine or penalty set forth in a schedule of
violations adopted by the city, as amended thereafter from time to time, the
city may recover all attorney fees, court costs and other expenses associated
with enforcement of this article, including necessary monitoring expenses.
   E.   The remedies listed in this article are not exclusive of any other
remedies available under the applicable federal, state or local law. It is
within the discretion of the city engineer or his designee to seek cumulative
remedies if necessary. The city engineer, or his designee, upon the advice and
consent of the city attorney, shall undertake enforcement pursuant to this
section. (Ord. 5030, 2-21-2011)
8-4C-10: APPEAL:
   A.   Other than nuisance actions subject to the procedures of sections
8-4-15 and
8-4-16 of this chapter, administrative decisions by city staff and enforcement
actions of the city engineer or his designee, may be appealed by the applicant
to the city council, or a committee designated by the city council, pursuant to
the procedures set forth in this section.
   B.   The appeal must be filed in writing with the city clerk within fourteen
(14) days of the decision or enforcement action.
An administrative fee, as set forth in a schedule of fees determined by the
city council from time to time, must be paid when the appeal is filed. Failure
to file the appeal and pay the administrative fee within said fourteen (14)
days shall constitute a waiver of the right to a hearing.
The written appeal shall specify the action appealed from, the errors allegedly
made that give rise to the appeal, and the relief requested.
   C.   The city clerk shall notify the applicant and the city engineer or his
designee whose decision or action has been appealed of the date, time and place
for the appeal hearing. Notice shall be mailed to the applicant by ordinary
mail. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date not less than four (4) days nor
more than twenty (20) days after the filing of the appeal, unless the applicant
requests an extension of not more than fourteen (14) days.
The hearing shall be simple and informal, without regard to technicalities of
procedure or rules regarding admissibility of evidence. The city council or
designated committee may consider any evidence it considers credible and give
such weight to the evidence as it considers warranted. The intent of this
paragraph is to promote the prompt and speedy resolution of disputes.
The applicant may be represented by counsel at the applicant's expense. The
city engineer or his designee or other city employees may be represented by the
city attorney or by an attorney designated by the city council at city's
expense.
   D.   The decision of the city council, or committee designated by the city
council, shall be rendered in writing within ten (10) days after the hearing,
or any continued session thereof, and may be appealed to the Iowa district
court as provided by law. (Ord. 5030, 2-21-2011)
8-4C-11: SEVERABILITY:
The provisions of this article are hereby declared to be severable. If any
section, provision, clause, sentence, paragraph or part of this ordinance or
the application thereof to any person, establishment, or circumstance shall be
held invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall not affect the other
provisions or applications of this article. (Ord. 5030, 2-21-2011)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
Building Code   1
Building Contractors   1A
Property Maintenance Code   1B
Fire Prevention And Protection   2
Fire Prevention Inspections   2A
Alarm Systems   2B
Explosives And Fireworks   2C
Electrical Regulations   3
Plumbing Regulations   4
Plumbing Code   4A
Plumbing Board For Licensing And Appeals   4B
Plumbing Contractors   4C
Mechanical Systems   5
Mechanical Code   5A
Mechanical Board For Licensing And Appeals   5B
Mechanical Contractors   5C
Signs   6
Sign Permits   6A
Design And Construction   6B
Rental Housing   7
Historic Preservation   8
Manufactured Homes   9
Mobile Homes And Mobile Home Parks   10
Moving Buildings   11
House Movers   11A
Dangerous Buildings   12
Condominium Conversion   13
Housing Cooperative Conversion   14
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
9-1-1: Building Codes Adopted
9-1-2: Amendments To The Building Codes
9-1-3: Conformance Required
9-1-4: Unsafe, Vacant And Abandoned Buildings
9-1-5: Conflict Of Interest
9-1-6: Changing Stations
9-1-1: BUILDING CODES ADOPTED:
Certain documents, copies of which are on file and available in the office of
the city clerk of the City of Waterloo, Iowa, being marked and designated as
International Building Code, 2021 Edition, (hereafter to be known as the IBC),
the International Residential Code for One and Two-Family Dwellings, 2021
Edition, (hereafter to be known as the IRC), and the International Existing
Building Code, 2021 Edition, (hereafter to be known as the IEBC), published in
2021 by the International Code Council, Inc. be and the same are hereby adopted
as the building codes of the City of Waterloo, Iowa, for regulating the
erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, moving, removal,
demolition, occupancy, equipment, use, height, area and maintenance of all
buildings and/or structures in the City of Waterloo, Iowa; providing for the
issuance of permits and collection of fees therefore; providing penalties for
the violation of such code; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions, and terms of such International Building Code, 2021
Edition, and the International Residential Code for One and Two-Family
Dwellings, 2021 Edition, and the International Existing Building Code,
published in 2021 by the International Code Council, on file in the office of
the city clerk are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part thereof as if
fully set out in this chapter and are hereby adopted by this reference. (Ord.
5629, 12-20-2021)
9-1-2: AMENDMENTS TO THE BUILDING CODES:
   A.   General Amendments to the IBC, IRC and IEBC:
Any references to the International Electrical Code shall be amended to read
currently adopted electrical code.
Any references to the International Plumbing Code shall be amended to read
currently adopted plumbing code.
   B.   Amendments To The IBC:
Section 101 Scope and General Requirements
101.1. Insert: City of Waterloo
101.4 Reference Codes.
Section 101.4.3 Plumbing. Delete the following sentence:
The provisions of the International Private Sewage Disposal Code shall apply to
private sewage disposal systems.
Section 103.1 Permits
105.2 Work exempt from permit.
Building:
   1.    “One-story detached accessory structures used as tool and storage
sheds, playhouses and similar uses, provided that the floor area is not greater
than 120 square feet. Delete in its entirety.
   2.    Delete and replace with: “Fences not over 4 feet high.”
   10.    “Shade cloth structures constructed for nursery or agricultural
purposes, not including service systems.” Delete in its entirety.
Add the following exemptions:
   14.   Installation or replacement of storm windows and doors.
   15.   Replacement of broken glass in windows.
   16.   Repair or replacement of an overhead garage door when the opening
remains the same size.
   17.   Minor wall repair in connection with Item 7.
   18.   Exterior arbors not over 5 foot 9 inches in height used for support of
plants and not over 120 square feet in overall area.
Delete in its entirety:
Electrical
Gas
Mechanical
Plumbing
Section 108 Temporary Structures and Uses.
Add Subsection 108.1.1: Storage containers may be used for storage of
construction materials associated with construction on a construction site
without requiring a temporary permit. Storage containers are not allowed to be
used as permanent storage unless the structure and use conforms to the
structural strength, fire safety, means of egress, accessibility, light,
ventilation and sanitary requirements of this code as necessary to ensure
public health, safety and general welfare.
Section 109 Fees.
Add Subsection 109.2.1: By request of the Building Official, all building
permit and inspection fees shall be established by resolution of the City
Council and paid prior to issuance of a permit or re-inspection. See table 1-B.
Add Subsection 109.5.1: By request of the Building Official, plan review fees
shall be established by resolution of the City Council and paid at time of
permit application.
Section 1612 Flood Loads.
1612.3. Establishment of flood hazard areas. Delete in its entirety.
1612.4. Flood hazard documentation. Delete in its entirety.
   C.   Amendments To The IRC:
Adopt Appendix AJ - Existing Buildings and Structures in its entirety.
Amend the IRC as follows:
Section R105 Permits
R105.2 Work exempt from permit.
   Building.
   1.   Delete in its entirety and replace with: “Other than storm shelters,
one-story detached accessory structures, provided that the floor area does not
exceed 120 square feet and no taller than 10' in height measured to the highest
point of the structure.”
   2.   Delete in its entirety and replace with: “Fences not over 4 feet high.”
   7.   Delete in its entirety and replace with: “Swimming pools that are
accessory to one and two family dwellings.”
   10.    Delete entire exemption for decks.
Delete in its entirety:
Electrical
Gas
Mechanical
Plumbing
R105.3.1.1 Determination of substantial improvement in areas prone to flooding.
Delete this section in its entirety.
TABLE R301.2 Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria amended as follows:
 
Ground Wind Design                           Seismic  Subject To Damage From
Snow   Speed  Topographic Special Windbourne Design              Frost
Load   (mph)  Effects     Wind    Debris     Category Weathering Line  Termite
                          Region  Zone                           Depth
30 psf 107    no          no      no         A        Severe     42"   Moderate
       (48)
 
 
Ice Barrier Underlayment Flood Hazards Air Freezing Index Mean Annual Temp
Required
Yes                      7/18/201 1    2500               46.3
 
Table R302.1(1) Exterior Walls is amended as follows:
Exterior Wall Element Minimum Fire-Resistance Rating Minimum Fire Separation
                                                     Distance
Exterior Wall Element                  Minimum Fire-        Minimum Fire
                                       Resistance Rating    Separation Distance
                                       1 hour-tested in
                  (Fire-resistance     accordance with ASTM
                  rated)               E 119 or UL 263 with < 3 feet
Walls                                  exposure from both
                                       sides
                  (Not fire-resistance 0 hours              3 feet
                  rated)
                  (Fire-resistance     1 hour on the        3 feet to < 5 feet
Projections       rated)               underside
                  (Not fire-resistance 0 hours              5 feet
                  rated)
Openings in walls Not allowed          N/A                  < 3 feet
                  Unlimited            0 hours              > 3 feet
Penetrations      All                  Comply with R317.3   < 3 feet
                                       None required        > 3 feet
 
Section R302.13 Fire Protection of Floors - Delete this section in its
entirety.
Section R313. Automatic Fire Sprinkler Systems - Delete this section in its
entirety.
The IRC Section R322. Flood Resistant Construction - Delete this section in its
entirety.
The IRC Section R403.1.4.1 Frost Protection. Amend Exception 1 by deleting the
exception in its entirety and replacing it with the following: “Detached
accessory buildings 849 square feet or less need only have a Monolithic slab-
on-ground with turned-down footing. A minimum of 12 inches deep and 8 inches
wide at the base, including two #4 rebar continuous around the outside
perimeter, within the top and bottom one-third of the footing.”
Section R408.3, Unvented crawl space, Item number 1 is amended as follows: And
capped with a concrete slab having a minimum thickness of two inches.
IRC Part V-Mechanical: Chapters 12 through 23.
Delete these chapters in their entirety.
IRC Part VI Fuel Gas: Chapter 24.
Delete this chapter in its entirety.
Part VII Plumbing: Chapters 25 through 33.
Delete these chapters in their entirety.
Part VIII - Electrical: Chapters 34 through 43.
Delete these chapters in their entirety.
   D.   Amendments To The IEBC:
Amend the IEBC as follows:
Section 101.1. Insert: City of Waterloo
Section 109.3.8. Delete “that are enforced by the Department of Building
Safety”. (Ord. 5629, 12-20-2021)
9-1-3: CONFORMANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Construction To Conform To Building Code: All construction of buildings
within the city shall be in conformance with the building code.
   B.   Resolution Of Conflicts Between Building Code And Other Laws: In the
event that there is a conflict between the provisions of the building code and
any express provision of this code or other ordinances of the city, the express
provision of this code or other ordinances of the city shall prevail. (Ord.
5369, 9-26-2016)
9-1-4: UNSAFE, VACANT AND ABANDONED BUILDINGS:
In addition to the authority granted by the provisions of section 116 of the
IBC, the building official is hereby authorized to exercise emergency measures
to protect the health, safety and public welfare of the community by certain
procedures as follows:
   A.   Inspect the building and surrounding premises to determine the extent
of dilapidation, damage, obsolescence, fire hazard and risk as an attractive
nuisance.
   B.   Inform the owner or owner's agent of the unsafe, dangerous or hazardous
conditions which cause such building to be unsafe or an attractive nuisance.
   C.   Inform the owner or owner's agent of the applicable provisions of
section 116 of the IBC and demand a commitment regarding a time schedule and
manner of compliance with said section.
   D.   Order the prompt boarding up of the windows, doors and other openings
of unsafe or vacant buildings to prevent unauthorized access or the
perpetuation of an attractive nuisance during the time which is necessary to
gain compliance with the IBC.
   E.   Upon the failure of the owner or owner's agent to comply with the
order, to close, board up and secure an unsafe building within seven (7) days'
time after receiving such order, the building official, after notice and
opportunity for hearing, may cause the openings boarded up and secured, or the
premises barricaded and fenced, and the unsafe conditions abated, with the cost
of such construction, barricading, fencing and abatement to be assessed against
the property. (Ord. 5369, 9-26-2016)
9-1-5: CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
The building official, inspectors, and other employees in the building
department shall not engage in the sale, installation or maintenance of any
equipment, material, or system which is regulated by the IBC or the IRC,
directly or indirectly, nor have any financial interest in any concern engaged
in such business in the city at any time while so employed in the building
department, except personal residences, residences of family members,
residences of friends where compensation is not required of employees. (Ord.
5369, 9-26-2016)
9-1-6: CHANGING STATIONS:
   A.   Requirement: Each publicly available and accessible restroom serving
International Building Code Group A and Group M occupancy type areas,
hospitals, and city owned buildings, shall be equipped with a minimum of one
safe, sanitary, and convenient baby changing station under the following
circumstances:
   1.   New Building: All new buildings providing areas with the occupancy
types specified, hospitals, and city owned buildings;
      2.   Existing Building: All buildings providing areas with the occupancy
types specified, hospitals, and all city owned buildings; and any of the
following changes made:
         a.   A new restroom is built;
         b.   The square footage of an existing restroom is increased by fifty
(50) square feet or more;
         c.   The number of fixtures of an existing restroom is increased.
   B.   Exceptions: The requirement to provide baby changing stations does not
apply to a restroom that contains clear and visible signage indicating where an
alternative restroom and/or a designated area approved by the Building Official
with a baby changing station is located within the same building and on the
same floor.
   C.   Definition: Baby Changing Station means a baby changing station, deck,
table, or similar amenity that is intended for use by the public for the
purpose of changing diapers on children weighing up to fifty (50) pounds.
   D.   Appeals: Appeals to this requirement can be submitted to the Building
Official. (Ord. 5571, 8-24-2020)
ARTICLE A. BUILDING CONTRACTORS
SECTION:
9-1A-1: Scope Of Licenses
9-1A-2: Licensing Requirements
9-1A-3: General Contractors Board Of Licensing, Examiners And Appeals
9-1A-4: Application For License
9-1A-5: Reserved
9-1A-6: License Fees
9-1A-7: Certificates Required
9-1A-8: Change In Information
9-1A-9: Denial, Suspension Or Revocation Of License
9-1A-10: Appeal
9-1A-1: SCOPE OF LICENSES:
   A.   Residential Building Contractor:
      1.   License Required: Under the city building code, all residential
building contractors who contract with an owner to construct or improve
dwellings for habitation by one to four (4) families and who provides two (2)
or more special skills (services) for a consumer, must be licensed unless
exempt under the provisions noted in subsection
9-1A-2F of this article.
      2.   Defined: A "residential building contractor" is any corporation,
company, partnership or person in the business of contracting or offering to
contract with any residential owner to construct residential dwellings and/or
any portions thereof and said construction involves two (2) or more of the
following: excavation, masonry/concrete work, carpentry, interior or exterior
finishing, drywall and plaster or roofing. A residential building contractor
may also contract or offer to contract with an owner to remodel or repair any
existing residential property.
   B.   Residential Remodeler:
      1.   Defined: A "residential remodeler" is defined as any person in the
business of contracting or offering to contract with an owner to perform any
construction work on an existing residential structure.
      2.   Limitations: A residential remodeler is permitted to work only on
existing structures and is specifically prohibited from changing the
"footprint" of the existing structure. A "footprint" is defined as the actual
size of the structure upon which work is permitted pursuant to this section.
   C.   Residential Roofing Limited: Those who are qualified to install, repair
and replace residential steep roof coverings. Work may include fabrication and
installation of sheet metal incidental to residential steep roof coverings and
installation of asphalt shingles, asphalt roll roofing materials, clay tile,
concrete tile, slate, wood shake or shingles and other prefabricated shingle
products. (Ord. 5369, 9-26-2016)
9-1A-2: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: Any contractor who constructs, remodels, repairs or
performs any two (2) of the following work, said contractor shall be licensed
as applicable in subsections
9-1A-1A through C of this article: excavation, masonry/concrete, carpentry,
interior finishing, exterior finishing, drywall and plaster or roofing.
   B.   Roofing License Requirement: A separate license is required for any
person who engages in the business of working on residential one-, two-, three-
or four-family dwellings in roof coverings, roof sheathing, roof
weatherproofing and insulation, and any repair of roof systems.
   C.   Company License: Any contractor other than a natural person must
designate one individual to serve as a qualifying person who must take the
licensing examination.
      1.   Sole Proprietorship: The qualifying person of a sole proprietorship
may be the owner or managing employee.
      2.   Partnership: Any partner or managing employee may be the qualifying
person.
      3.   Corporation: The qualifying person must be the chief executive
officer or a managing employee.
   D.   Qualifying Person: If the qualifying person is a managing employee, the
latter must be an employee who is regularly employed by the company and
actively engaged in the classification of work for which the license is to be
obtained.
   E.   Licensing Exams: The examinee must achieve a passing score in order to
obtain a license. The exams shall test an applicant's knowledge of the rules,
regulations, materials, building practices, as well as the various aspects of
the construction business.
   F.   Exemption: The legal owner of any residential property shall not be
required to be licensed as a contractor in order to remodel or repair the
owner's own property. However, permits must be obtained.
   G.   Homeowner Building Own Home For Residence:
      1.   Owners building their own home shall comply with the rules outlined
in the document "Building Permits Issued To Homeowners For Homeowners Building
Their Own House" no. HBOH03.
      2.   This document shall be recorded on the abstract of the property and
shall remain in force until the time limit listed in the document has expired.
      3.   This document will ensure homes not being built by licensed
homebuilders will meet code requirements and be safe for life, limb and health
years into the future. (Ord. 5369, 9-26-2016)
9-1A-3: GENERAL CONTRACTORS BOARD OF LICENSING, EXAMINERS AND APPEALS:
   A.   Board Established: There is hereby established a general contractors
board of licensing, examiners and appeals, hereinafter referred to as the
board, with authority and responsibility as follows:
      1.   Authority to license a corporation, company, partnership or a person
as a residential building, residential remodeler, limited roofing, unlimited
roofing contractor.
      2.   To periodically review the provisions of the Waterloo building code
and recommend to the building official changes to said code.
      3.   Review issues and concerns of the building industry as they relate
to inspection and code administrations.
      4.   To review complaints against any contractor, and upon substantiation
of the complaint, the board may require the contractor to be relicensed. Upon
the third and subsequent complaints, the board may, by majority vote, suspend
or revoke the contractor's license.
      5.   Review and act on appeals by contractors, homeowners or any party
affected by the decision of the building official. The building official may
convene the board to assist in evaluating the merits of a proposed product or
method of construction, or assist in the interpretation of code revisions. The
board shall not rule on matters pertaining to electrical, plumbing or
mechanical questions. As an appeals board, it is limited by the authority
granted by the current adopted building codes.
   B.   Composition Of Board: The board shall consist of nine (9) members, all
of whose place of business or residence is located in Black Hawk County. All
members shall be qualified by experience and training to evaluate applicants
for testing. The membership shall be as follows: three (3) residential
contractors, two (2) commercial contractors, one design professional
(construction related), one roofing contractor and two (2) at large. The
building official shall act as secretary to the board. No one company or
interest shall have more than one member on the board.
   C.   Appointment And Terms Of Office: The members of the general contractors
board of licensing, examiners and appeals shall be appointed by the mayor with
the approval of the city council. After the initial appointment of the board,
the terms of the members shall be for three (3) years except that the initial
terms shall be so arranged and staggered that the terms of no more than two (2)
members shall expire on December 31 of any one year. A vacancy within any term
shall be filled by appointment of the mayor with the approval of the city
council for the unexpired portion of that term only. The members of the board
shall serve without compensation.
The board shall designate a member as chair and vice chair and shall adopt
reasonable rules for conducting its investigations and proceedings, and shall
render all decisions and findings in writing to the building official with a
duplicate copy to the appellant and may recommend to the city council new
legislation as is consistent therewith.
   D.   Quorum: Five (5) members of the board shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business, provided that a decision on a matter relating to a
specific license shall not be valid unless decided in the presence of a board
member who holds a similar valid license. Any vote taken for the purpose of
suspending or revoking a contractor's license shall require a majority vote of
all members appointed to the board.
   E.   Powers And Duties: The general contractors board of licensing,
examiners and appeals shall have the following powers and duties:
      1.   To prescribe rules for the conduct of examinations of applicants for
licenses.
      2.   To hold regular meetings when determined necessary for the purpose
of conducting examinations of applicants for contractor licensing.
      3.   To examine applications and applicants for licenses as residential
building, residential remodeler, and residential roofing contractor.
      4.   To act upon reports of violations by licensed contractors'
licensing.
      5.   To prescribe rules consistent with the provisions of this code for
hearings before the board to suspend, revoke or reinstate licenses.
      6.   To keep a complete record of the official proceedings of the board;
to preserve all documents, books, and papers relating to appeals, examinations
for licenses, and hearings of complaints and charges for at least five (5)
years.
      7.   Establish guidelines from homeowners performing any construction
regulated by codes adopted by the city of Waterloo as they pertain to building
new one- and two-family dwellings and additions onto existing homes.
   F.   Waiver Of Examination: The board may, by the majority vote of all of
the members present, issue to any applicant possessing a valid contractor's
license from any other state, after satisfying itself of the validity of such
license, and the qualifications of the holder thereof, waive examination of
such applicant and upon compliance with all other regulations in this code,
issue to the applicant the applicable license as set forth in section
9-1A-1 of this article.
   G.   Waiver Of Examination For Contractor: After satisfying itself of the
validity of a license from any other city or state, the ability of the holder
of said license to competently conduct himself as a building contractor, the
board may, by the majority vote of all of the members present, issue a
contractor's license without requiring examination therefor. (Ord. 5369, 9-26-
2016)
9-1A-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Application: An applicant for a license under the provisions of this
article must submit an application to INRCOG on a form prescribed by INRCOG.
Within thirty (30) business days of receiving all required information, INRCOG
must act on the license request. If one of the categories in the application
does not apply, the applicant must state the reason. The board may refuse to
issue a license if the application is not complete or contains false
information in reference to subsections A1 through A6 of this section.
      1.   Iowa workers' compensation insurance certificate;
      2.   Employment insurance account number;
      3.   Certificate of liability insurance with a thirty (30) day
cancellation clause;
      4.   Type of license requested;
      5.   Name and address of the applicant:
         a.   Name and address of the applicant's qualifying person, if other
than applicant; and
         b.   If the applicant is a sole proprietorship, the name and address
of the sole proprietor; if the applicant is a partnership, the name and address
of each partner; if the applicant is a limited liability company, the name and
address of each manager; if applicant is a corporation, the name and address of
each of the corporate officers, directors and all shareholders holding more
than ten percent (10%) of the outstanding stock in the corporation;
      6.   Whether the applicant, any employee, or qualifying person has ever
been licensed in this or any other state and has had a professional or
vocational license refused, suspended, or revoked, or has been the subject of
any administrative action.
   B.   Examination: Each qualifying person must satisfactorily complete a
written examination for the type of license requested. The board may establish
the examination qualifications, including related education experience and
education, the examination procedure, and the examination for each licensing
group.
   C.   License Issuance: Upon passing the written examination and posting a
passing grade of seventy percent (70%) or better, a license application shall
be completed and submitted to the contractors board of licensing and examiners
for review and approval. After paying necessary fees, a contractor's license
will be issued by the Iowa Northland Regional Council Of Governments (INRCOG).
(Ord. 5369, 9-26-2016)
9-1A-5: RESERVED:
(Ord. 5369, 9-26-2016)
9-1A-6: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   The licensing fee for persons licensed pursuant to section
9-1A-1 of this article is seventy five dollars ($75.00) per year.
   B.   Fees shall be paid on or before December 31 of each year following the
date of licensing. There shall be no proration of fees for partial year
licenses.
   C.   The contractor's license shall be registered with the Iowa Northland
Regional Council Of Governments (INRCOG) located at 229 E. Park Avenue,
Waterloo, IA 50703. The registration fee is fifteen dollars ($15.00) per year.
(Ord. 5369, 9-26-2016)
9-1A-7: CERTIFICATES REQUIRED:
   A.   Competency: A certificate of competency shall be received from an
accredited testing agency for contractors. The testing agency shall be
registered with the building department of the city. The building department
shall provide information on competency testing, test sites, test dates, and
material covered by the test.
   B.   Insurance:
      1.   Certificate Required; Limits:
         a.   A contractor shall show proof of registration with the state and
shall execute and file with the building official (or a specified
intergovernmental agency if so designated by the building official) a
certificate of insurance written by a company authorized to transact business
in the state, in limits of not less than three hundred thousand dollars
($300,000.00) combined single limit to any person and one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000.00) property damage; said certificate to be written on a
standard form and carrying an endorsement naming the city and its employees (or
the intergovernmental agency designated by the building official) as additional
insureds as its interest may appear and conditioned upon the faithful
performance of all duties required of such contractor by any ordinances, rules
and regulations of the city. It shall be a further condition of said
certificate of insurance that the obligator will hold the city (through the
specified intergovernmental agency if so designated) harmless from any and all
damages sustained by reason of neglect or incompetency on the part of such
contractor, his agents or employees in the performance of the work done under a
license or permit issued upon the filing of said certificate.
         b.   Said certificate of insurance shall be issued by December 31 of
each year, and shall be refiled on or before said date for each subsequent year
and shall be in continuous full force and effect. That it is the intent and
purpose of said certificate of insurance to also bind the individual, company,
firm, association or partnership, whether it be trade name, corporation, or
other business association or arrangement with which the principal is
associated.
         c.   Homeowners working on their principal residence shall be exempt
from filing said certificate.
      2.   Work Done By Owner: Where a person desires to remodel or repair any
single-family residential building or structure of which he or they are the
owner/occupant, such work may be done by a member of his or their household
without requiring the certificate of insurance otherwise required by this
subsection.
         a.   Required permits shall be necessary for all remodel or repair
work.
         b.   No owner or owner of record shall replace, remodel or repair any
electrical, plumbing or heating on any property that they are not the owner/
occupant.
         c.   With the approval of the building official, an owner who intends
to repair or remodel an existing house in order to occupy that same structure
at completion of work, may be considered an owner/occupant for the purposes of
this section. (Ord. 5369, 9-26-2016)
9-1A-8: CHANGE IN INFORMATION:
   A.   Notice Of Change: Not later than fifteen (15) business days after there
is a change in the licensee's personal name, trade name, qualifying person, or
address or business location, written notice must be provided to INRCOG of such
change. Upon receipt of the written notice, INRCOG shall issue an amended
license, if required, for the unexpired duration of the license.
   B.   Loss Of Qualifying Person: Upon the departure or disqualification of a
licensee's qualifying person because of death, disability, retirement, position
change or other reason, the licensee must notify INRCOG within sixty (60)
business days. The licensee shall have one hundred twenty (120) days from the
departure of the qualifying person to obtain a new qualifying person. Failure
to secure a new qualifying person within one hundred twenty (120) days shall
result in the automatic termination of the license, and the applicant must
requalify as required under this article. (Ord. 5369, 9-26-2016)
9-1A-9: DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The general contractors board of licensing, examiners and appeals may, by
majority vote, deny, suspend or revoke any license or may censure a licensee
for failure to comply with any of the following:
   A.   Has filed an application for a license which is incomplete in any
material respect or contains any statement which is false or misleading;
   B.   Has engaged in a fraudulent, deceptive or dishonest practice;
   C.   Is permanently or temporarily enjoined by any court of competent
jurisdiction from engaging in or continuing any conduct or practice involving
any aspect of the business;
   D.   Has failed to reasonably supervise employees, agents, subcontractors or
salespersons, or has performed negligently or in breach of contract so as to
cause injury or harm to the public and/or the city;
   E.   Has violated or failed to comply with any of the licensing provisions
of sections
9-1A-1 through
9-1A-6 and
9-1A-8 of this article;
   F.   Has been shown to be incompetent, untrustworthy or financially
irresponsible; or
   G.   Has been convicted of a violation of any building code of the cities of
Waterloo or Cedar Falls and/or the county of Black Hawk. (Ord. 5369, 9-26-2016)
9-1A-10: APPEAL:
   A.   Upon the final action and notification by the board, the licensee may
appeal the decision of the board.
   B.   The appeal shall be submitted in writing within ten (10) days from the
decision date by the board to the Board Secretary, Building Inspections
Department, 715 Mulberry Street, Waterloo, IA 50703.
   C.   The appeal will be heard in a work session with full city council.
Their decision shall be final. (Ord. 5369, 9-26-2016)
ARTICLE B. PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION:
9-1B-1: Code Adopted
9-1B-2: Amendments To Code
9-1B-3: Conflicting Provisions
9-1B-4: Severability
9-1B-5: Pending Actions
9-1B-1: CODE ADOPTED:
A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the
city clerk of the city of Waterloo, Iowa, being marked and designated as the
international property maintenance code, 2015 edition, as published by the
International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the property
maintenance code of the city of Waterloo, in the state of Iowa, for regulating
and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and
structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities
and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures
are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of
buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and the demolition
of such existing structures as herein provided; providing for issuance of
permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said property maintenance code
on file in the office of the city clerk of the city of Waterloo are hereby
referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this
article, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in section
9-1B-2 of this article. (Ord. 5285, 6-1-2015, eff. 7-1-2016)
9-1B-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
   A.   General amendments to the international property maintenance code:
Any reference to the international plumbing code shall be replaced with the
"adopted plumbing code".
Section 101.1 Insert: city of Waterloo.
Section 102.2 is amended to add exception 1 as follows:
Exception 1. Owner or owner's agent shall by written agreement allow the
occupant to perform the duties specified herein. All refrigerators, stoves and
ranges shall be maintained in safe working condition.
Section 103.1 is hereby deleted in its entirety, and a new section 103.1 is
enacted to read as follows:
Section 103.1 General. The department of property maintenance inspection is
hereby established, and the executive official in charge thereof shall be known
as the code official. The building inspections department shall operate as the
department of property maintenance inspection.
Section 103.2 is hereby deleted in its entirety, and a new section 103.2 is
enacted to read as follows:
Section 103.2 Appointment. The building official is hereby appointed as the
code official.
Section 103.3 is hereby deleted in its entirety, and a new section 103.3 is
enacted to read as follows:
Section 103.3 Deputies. In accordance with the prescribed procedures of this
jurisdiction and with the concurrence of the appointing authority, the code
official shall have the authority to appoint one or more deputies. Such
employees shall have powers as delegated by the code official. Code enforcement
officers, building inspectors, fire inspectors, and officers of the Waterloo
police department are hereby appointed as deputies to enforce this article.
Section 103.5 is hereby deleted in its entirety, and a new section 103.5 is
enacted to read as follows:
103.5 Fees. The city council shall by resolution prescribe fees for activities
and services performed by personnel of the city or the building official's
designee. Fees shall be paid prior to the issuance of the certificate of
compliance.
Section 104.2 is amended to add a new section 104.2.1 as follows:
104.2.1 Regular Rental Inspection. Rental property, rental units and the common
areas thereof shall be inspected in accordance with a program of regular rental
inspections every 3 years, or as deemed necessary by the code official.
Section 106 is amended by adding the following sections:
Section 106.6 Hardship Due To Code Application.
Section 106.6.1 Definition.
Hardship - The literal application of this code causes hardship to the owner of
the affected property.
Section 106.6.2 Referral. The code official shall refer all hardship cases to
the community development office.
Section 111.2.1 is hereby deleted in its entirety.
Section 111.2.5 is hereby deleted in its entirety.
Section 112.4 is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the
following:
112.4 Failure To Comply. Any person who shall continue any work after having
been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed
to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be in violation of
this article. Any violation of this article shall constitute a municipal
infraction and be punishable as provided in section
1-3-2 of the Waterloo code of ordinances.
A new section 113 is hereby enacted as follows:
113 Certification.
113.1 Certificate Of Compliance. A certificate of compliance shall mean a
document which shows that the unit or units for which it is issued was in
compliance with the applicable provisions of this code at the time of the last
inspection. The certificate shall be automatically transferred from one owner
or operator to another. Rental unit registrations do not transfer from one
owner or operator to another. A certificate of compliance shall state the date
of last inspection, the address of the structure to which it is applicable and
the type or classification of the dwelling.
113.2 Disclaimer. A certificate of compliance does not signify or imply that
the premises for which it is issued is in compliance with the fire, building or
zoning codes of the city of Waterloo.
Section 302.4 is hereby deleted in its entirety.
Section 302.8 is hereby deleted in its entirety.
Section 304.14 is hereby deleted in its entirety.
Section 308.2.1 Rubbish Storage Facilities is hereby amended by adding a new
section 308.2.1.1 as follows:
Section 308.2.1.1. Multi-unit residential buildings containing five (5) or more
units shall provide adequate storage for waste so as to store all waste inside
containers with the lids closed. Multi-unit residential buildings containing
four (4) or less units may utilize city garbage collection services provided
that each unit has city garbage cart capable of containing all garbage with the
lid closed. For waste containers other than city garbage carts, minimum
requirements are two (2) cubic yards of capacity for each increment of four (4)
units.
An appropriate number of waste containers shall be provided for multi-unit
developments that are not residential, or for the non-residential portion of
mixed-use multi-unit developments, based upon the number of buildings and units
within such development or applicable portion thereof.
A new section 403.6 is hereby enacted as follows:
403.6 Mold Present In A Rental Unit.
         a.   When mold is found to be visibly present in small amounts, it can
be cleaned in a safe and sanitary manner.
         b.   When mold is found in a rental unit and is determined to be a
health risk, the building official may order that a clean air report be
obtained from a mold specialist approved by the building official.
A new section 403.7 is hereby enacted as follows:
403.7 Carbon Monoxide Alarms. Carbon monoxide alarms shall be installed in
accordance with this code.
403.7.1 Listings. Carbon monoxide alarms shall be listed in accordance with UL
2034. Combination carbon monoxide and smoke alarms shall be listed in
accordance with UL 2034 and UL 217.
403.7.2 When Required. Carbon monoxide alarms shall be provided when either or
both of the following conditions exist:
         a.   The dwelling unit contains a fuel-fired appliance.
         b.   The dwelling unit has an attached garage with an opening that
communicates with the dwelling unit.
403.7.3 Location. Carbon monoxide alarms in dwelling units shall be installed
outside of each separate sleeping area in the immediate vicinity of the
bedrooms. Where a fuel-burning appliance is located within a bedroom or its
attached bathroom, a carbon monoxide alarm shall be installed within the
bedroom.
Section 602.3 is hereby deleted in its entirety, and a new section 602.3 is
enacted to read as follows:
Section 602.3 Heat Supply. Every owner and operator of any building who rents,
leases or lets one or more dwelling units or sleeping units on terms, either
expressed or implied, to furnish heat to the occupants thereof shall supply
heat to maintain a temperature of not less than 68°F (20°C) in all habitable
rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms.
Section 602.4 is hereby deleted in its entirety, and a new section 602.4 is
enacted to read as follows:
Section 602.4 Occupiable Work Spaces. Indoor occupiable work spaces shall be
supplied with heat to maintain a temperature of not less than 65°F (18°C)
during the period the spaces are occupied.
Exceptions:
      1.   Processing, storage and operation areas that require cooling or
special temperature conditions.
      2.   Areas in which persons are primarily engaged in vigorous physical
activities.
(Ord. 5285, 6-1-2015, eff. 7-1-2016)
9-1B-3: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
If existing ordinances of the city of Waterloo are in conflict herewith, the
most restrictive shall prevail. (Ord. 5285, 6-1-2015, eff. 7-1-2016)
9-1B-4: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this article is, for
any reason, held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this article. The city council hereby
declares that it would have passed this article, including each section,
subsection, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses and phrases be declared
unconstitutional. (Ord. 5285, 6-1-2015, eff. 7-1-2016)
9-1B-5: PENDING ACTIONS:
Nothing in this article or in the property maintenance code hereby adopted
shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding pending in any court, or
any rights acquired, or liability incurred, or any cause or causes of action
acquired or existing, under any act or ordinance hereby repealed as cited in
section
9-1B-2 of this article; nor shall any just or legal right or remedy of any
character be lost, impaired or affected by this article. (Ord. 5285, 6-1-2015,
eff. 7-1-2016)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
SECTION:
9-2-1: Purpose
9-2-2: Codes Adopted
9-2-3: Enforcement
9-2-4: Investigations, Reports And Recommendations
9-2-5: Fees For Calls For Service
9-2-6: False Fire Alarms; Tampering With Devices
9-2-7: Violation; Penalty
9-2-8: Amendments
9-2-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter shall provide the city with rules and regulations to improve
public safety by promoting the control of fire hazards; regulating the
installation, use and maintenance of equipment; regulating the use of
structures, premises and open areas; providing for the abatement of fire
hazards; establishing the responsibilities and procedures for code enforcement;
and setting forth standards for compliance and achievement of these objectives.
This chapter shall be known as CITY OF WATERLOO FIRE PREVENTION CODE. (Ord.
4992, 6-21-2010)
9-2-2: CODES ADOPTED:
The following codes are hereby adopted and incorporated as if fully set out at
length herein. At least one copy of such codes is on file and available for
inspection in the city clerk’s office and fire headquarters, and the provisions
thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the city. (Ord. 4992, 6-21-
2010)
   A.   International Fire Code: That certain document marked and designated as
the international fire code, 2021 edition, including appendix chapters B, C, D,
and H, as published by the International Code Council, Inc., be and the same is
hereby adopted as the fire code of the city, to prescribe regulations
consistent with nationally recognized good practice for the safeguarding to a
reasonable degree of life and property from the hazards of fire and explosion
arising from the storage, handling and use of hazardous substances, materials
and devices, and from conditions hazardous to life or property in the use or
occupancy of buildings or premises. (Ord. 5368, 9-26-2016; amd. Ord. 5628, 12-
20-2021)
9-2-3: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Fire Chief Responsible; Inspectors: The fire chief shall be responsible
for the enforcement of the codes adopted in section
9-2-2 of this chapter. The fire chief may detail qualified members of the fire
department as inspectors as shall from time to time be necessary.
   B.   Fire Chief To Prepare Instructions: The fire chief shall prepare
instructions for the fire marshal and the fire marshal's assistants, and forms
for their use in the reports required by this chapter. (Ord. 4992, 6-21-2010)
9-2-4: INVESTIGATIONS, REPORTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS:
   A.   Investigate Fires: The bureau of fire prevention and/or incident
commander shall investigate the cause, origin and circumstances of every fire
occurring in the city by which property has been destroyed or damaged and, so
far as possible, shall determine whether the fire is the result of carelessness
or design. Such investigations shall begin immediately upon the occurrence of
such a fire. The fire marshal shall take immediate charge of the physical
evidence, shall notify the proper authorities designated by law to pursue the
investigation of such matters, and shall further cooperate with the authorities
in the collection of evidence and in the prosecution of the case. Every fire
shall be reported in writing to the bureau of fire prevention within one day
after the occurrence of the same by the fire department officer in whose
jurisdiction such a fire has occurred. Such report shall be in such form as
shall be prescribed by the fire marshal, and shall contain a statement of all
facts relating to the cause, origin and circumstances of such fire, the extent
of the damage thereof and the insurance upon such property, and such other
information as may be required, including the injury, death or rescue of
persons.
   B.   Daily Records: The fire department shall compile and keep a record of
all fires and of all facts concerning the same, including injuries, deaths,
rescue of persons, statistics as to the extent of such fires and the damage
caused thereby, and whether such losses were covered by insurance and, if so,
in what amount. Such record shall be made daily from the reports made by the
technical inspectors under the provisions of this chapter. All such records
shall be public.
   C.   Annual Report To Mayor And City Council: The fire marshal shall make an
annual report of the activities of the bureau of fire prevention and shall
transmit this report to the mayor and city council through the fire chief. The
report shall contain all proceedings under the fire prevention code with such
statistics as the fire chief may wish to include therein.
   D.   Recommend Amendments To Code: The fire chief or the fire marshal shall
also recommend any amendments to the fire prevention code or ordinance that
shall be desirable. (Ord. 4992, 6-21-2010)
9-2-5: FEES FOR CALLS FOR SERVICE:
   A.   When the Fire Department is called to respond to an emergency at any
business, commercial, retail, non-profit, industrial, or other non-residential
property, or an apartment building consisting of four (4) or more units, fees
shall be charged to the owner(s) at rates set in a Fee Schedule adopted by City
Council Resolution. The Fee Schedule shall contain a minimum fee, as well as
hourly rates for the various department apparatuses.
   B.   Motor Vehicle Fires: When the Fire department is called to respond to a
motor vehicle fire, a fee will be charged to the responsible party at rates set
in a Fee Schedule adopted by City Council Resolution. The Fee Schedule shall
contain a minimum fee, as well as unit rates for fluid leak absorbent.
   C.   The Fire Chief may waive or negotiate a more appropriate service fee
based on hardship, established self-insurance plans and larger deductibles. The
Fire Chief shall conduct periodic reviews of the rates.
   D.   Title 1, Chapter 3, Section 3 of the Waterloo City Code shall govern
all unpaid fees charged in this section. (Ord. 4992, 6-21-2010; amd. Ord. 5771,
8-5-2024)
9-2-6: FALSE FIRE ALARMS; TAMPERING WITH DEVICES:
Any person who shall, without reasonable cause therefor, or who shall for the
purpose of either misleading or deceiving, give an alarm of fire, or permit any
false alarm of fire through an alarm telegraph to be given, or who shall, in
any way, tamper with the fire alarm boxes or keyholes thereto, shall be deemed
guilty of an offense. (Ord. 4992, 6-21-2010)
9-2-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Compliance Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to violate
this chapter, to permit or maintain such a violation, to refuse to obey any
provision thereof, or to fail or refuse to comply with any such provision or
regulation except as variation may be allowed by the action of fire chief in
writing. Proof of such unlawful act or failure shall be deemed prima facie
evidence that such act is that of the owner or other person in control of the
premises. Prosecution or lack thereof of either the owner, occupant or the
person in charge shall not be deemed to relieve any of the others.
   B.   Violations; Penalty: Any person who shall violate any of the provisions
of the codes hereby adopted; or shall fail to comply therewith; or shall
violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder; or shall build in
violation of any details, statements, specifications or plans submitted or
approved thereunder; or who shall operate not in accordance with the provisions
of any certificate, permit or approval issued thereunder, and from which no
appeal has been taken; or who shall fail to comply with such an order as
affirmed or modified by the fire marshal or by a court of competent
jurisdiction within the time fixed herein, shall severally for each and every
violation and noncompliance, respectively, be guilty of a municipal infraction
and be fined as provided in subsection
1-3-2C of this code. The imposition of a penalty for any violation shall not
excuse the violation nor shall the violation be permitted to continue. All such
persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects
within a reasonable time, and when not otherwise specified, the application of
the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal of
prohibited conditions. (Ord. 4992, 6-21-2010)
9-2-8: AMENDMENTS:
The following sections of the 2021 International Fire Code are hereby revised:
Section 101.1. Insert City of Waterloo
Insert a new subsection 104.7.2 Automatic Third Party Review to read as
follows: All buildings with fire protection systems (sprinkler and/or fire
alarm system) and a total square footage over 15,000 square feet will require a
third party review. Third party shall be approved by the fire code official.
Any building containing a fire pump, stand pipe system, or special detection/
suppression system regardless of square footage will require a 3rd party
review. Third party shall be approved by the fire code official.
Insert a new Subsection 106.5 Operational Inspections to read as follows: All
occupancies regulated by this code shall have initial pre-inspection conducted
by Fire Code Official before business is open to the general public, and
records updated to reflect new business owners.
Subsection 903.4.2, Alarms, strike the first sentence to read as follows: an
approved audible device, suitable for outdoor use with 110 candela visual
signal, located on the exterior of the building in an approved location, shall
be connected to each automatic sprinkler system.
Delete Subsection 903.4.3, Floor Control Valves in its entirety and insert in
lieu thereof a new Subsection 903.4.3, Floor Control Valves as follows:
Approved supervised indicating control valves and water flow alarms shall be
provided at the point of connection to the riser on each floor in buildings
over 15,000 square feet and 3 or more stories in height. The location of the
sprinkler control valves shall be approved by the fire code official.
Insert new subsection 1103.5.1.1 Occupancies that are identified as meeting the
criteria set forth in Section 1103.5.1, shall be given 12 months, from the date
of adoption, to bring said occupancy into compliance or have an accepted plan
in place to meet this requirement. (Ord. 5368, 9-26-2016; amd. Ord. 5628, 12-
20-2021)
ARTICLE A. FIRE PREVENTION INSPECTIONS
SECTION:
9-2A-1: Scope And Applicability
9-2A-2: Inspections
9-2A-3: Accumulation Of Highly Flammable Materials
9-2A-4: Permits And Certificates Required
9-2A-5: Payment Of Fees
9-2A-6: Annual Life Safety Permits, License And Certification Fees
9-2A-7: Explosives, Ammunition And Blasting Agents
9-2A-8: Fireworks
9-2A-9: Flammable And Combustible Liquids
9-2A-10: Special Amusement Buildings
9-2A-11: Reference Materials
9-2A-12: Services
9-2A-1: SCOPE AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Police Powers: This article shall be deemed an exercise of the police
powers of the city for the preservation and protection of the public health,
peace, safety and welfare, and all the provisions of the fire prevention code
shall be liberally construed for that purpose.
   B.   Applicability To Public And Private Property: The provisions of the
fire prevention code shall apply equally to both public and private property,
and it shall apply to all structures and their occupancies, except as otherwise
specified. (Ord. 3555, 5-23-1988)
9-2A-2: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Prerequisite To Permit Issuance: Before permits may be issued as
required by this code, the fire marshal, or the fire marshal's assistants,
shall inspect and approve the receptacles, processes, vehicles, buildings or
storage places to be used for any such purposes. (Ord. 3555, 5-23-1988)
   B.   Annual Inspections: The fire marshal shall inspect or cause to be
inspected all premises on an annual basis, and shall make such orders as may be
necessary for the enforcement of the laws and ordinances governing the same and
for safeguarding of life and property from fire. A property owner or any other
person having charge, care, or control of any premises shall, upon demand for
entry and presentation of credentials by the fire marshal, fire inspectors, or
fire officers, allow the fire marshal, fire inspectors, or fire officers access
and entry to the premises for purposes of inspection. Denial of entry, or
interference with the inspection by any person, shall constitute a municipal
infraction punishable pursuant to subsection
9-2-7B of this chapter. (Ord. 4461, 3-19-2001)
9-2A-3: ACCUMULATION OF HIGHLY FLAMMABLE MATERIALS:
   A.   Accumulation Prohibited: Whenever any inspector, as defined above,
shall find in any building, or upon any premises or other place, combustible or
explosive matter or dangerous accumulations of rubbish or unnecessary
accumulation of wastepaper, boxes, shavings or any highly flammable materials
especially liable to fire, and which is so situated as to endanger property; or
shall find obstructions to or on fire escapes, stairs, passageways, doors or
windows liable to interfere with the operations of the fire department or
egress of occupants in case of fire, the inspector shall order the same to be
removed or remedied, and such order shall forthwith be complied with by the
owner or occupants of such premises or buildings.
   B.   Compliance By Owner: Any owner or occupant failing to comply with such
order within a reasonable period after the service of the said order shall be
liable to penalties as hereinafter provided.
   C.   Service Of Order: The service of any such order may be made upon the
occupant of the premises to whom it is directed, either by delivering a copy of
same to such occupant personally, or leaving it with any person in charge of
the premises, by affixing a copy thereof in a conspicuous place on the door to
the entrance of said premises. Whenever it may be necessary to serve such an
order upon the owner of the premises, such order may be served either by
delivering to and leaving with the said person a copy of the said order, or, if
such owner is absent from the jurisdiction of the officer making the order, by
mailing such copy by certified mail to the owner's last known post office
address. (Ord. 3555, 5-23-1988)
9-2A-4: PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES REQUIRED:
   A.   Comply With Minimum Standards: The purpose of this article is to
provide minimum standards to safeguard life or limb, health, property and
public welfare by regulating and controlling the design, construction, quality
of materials, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of all nonresidential
businesses, buildings and structures within this jurisdiction and certain
equipment specifically regulated by the building code, fire code, life safety
code and fire prevention code.
New construction applications for permit shall comply with the building code,
fire code, life safety code and fire prevention code. (Ord. 3555, 5-23-1988;
amd. Ord. 3621, 2-21-1989; Ord. 3725, 7-2-1990)
   B.   Inspection Certificate Required: An annual fire prevention inspection
certificate is required for all structures except residential. Fees for this
certificate shall be as set forth in section
9-2A-6 of this article. Failure to obtain a certificate shall constitute a
municipal infraction punishable pursuant to subsection
9-2-7B of this chapter. (Ord. 4461, 3-19-2001)
   C.   Permit Required For Certain Operations And Materials: In accordance
with the detailed requirements of this jurisdiction, a permit shall be obtained
to conduct the following operations, or to store, handle or use those materials
that are considered to present an extra or unusual fire hazard to life or
property. Fees shall be as set forth in sections
9-2A-7 through
9-2A-9 of this article.
      1.   All flammable/combustible liquid storage tanks both above and under
ground.
      2.   Hazardous chemicals.
      3.   Explosive materials.
      4.   Fireworks.
   D.   Temporary Permit: When a temporary hazardous situation is anticipated
for conditions not otherwise regulated by this code, the fire marshal is
authorized to issue a temporary special permit for the duration of the hazard.
Fees shall be as determined by the city. (Ord. 3555, 5-23-1988; amd. Ord. 3621,
2-21-1989; Ord. 3725, 7-2-1990)
9-2A-5: PAYMENT OF FEES:
   A.   All fees and charges required by this article, if not paid within sixty
(60) days, shall constitute a lien upon the premises served by said service and
may be certified to the county treasurer and collected in the same manner as
taxes.
   B.   All fees and charges required by this article shall be paid to the city
clerk and such charges therefor as shall be, from time to time, established and
set by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 3725, 7-2-1990)
9-2A-6: ANNUAL LIFE SAFETY PERMITS, LICENSE AND CERTIFICATION FEES:
The following fees shall be established for the permits, licenses,
certificates, approvals, life safety inspections and other functions performed
under this code and shall be payable by the nonresidential businesses to the
city. Such fees shall accompany each application for such permit, approval,
certificate or other fee related code provisions:
   A.   Nonresidential Businesses Annual Fee Schedule For Life Safety
Inspection: A sliding fee schedule has been developed in accordance with the
square footage of the building. An increase in fee will be required for any
building occupancy classification shown in the high hazard group (HH) as
defined in the currently adopted fire code.
 
Square Footage  Inspection Fee HH
1 – 1,999     $ 40.00        $ 70.00
2,000 – 19,99970.00          90.00
20,000 – 49,9990.00          135.00
50,000 – 99,99225.00         300.00
Over 100,000    600.00         750.00
 
   Reinspection Fees 1 : For nonresidential businesses:
 
First reinspection                $100.00
Second reinspection               150.00
Third and subsequent reinspection 200.00
 
The fire chief has the authority to waive or negotiate inspection fees upon
written request from nonprofit organizations and places of worship based on
hardship.
At the time of the initial inspection, the occupant and/or owner will receive a
copy of the life safety inspection indicating which violations need to be
corrected, and the date of reinspection. Fees will be assessed if no compliance
is found at the time of the reinspection. If the fire marshal is notified in
writing, at least three (3) business days prior to reinspection that repairs
are scheduled, a reinspection date may be rescheduled to allow more time to
complete repairs. (Ord. 5073, 9-6-2011)
   B.   Annual Fee Schedule For Additional Hazards Based On Uniform Building
Code Occupancy Definition: Uniform building code classification of all
buildings by use or occupancy and general requirements for all occupancies:
   GROUP A OCCUPANCIES DEFINED
Sec. 601. Group A occupancies shall be:
 
                                                                   Annual Fee
Division 1   Any assembly building with a stage and an occupant load    $20.00
             of 1,000 or more in the building
             Any building or portion of a building having an
Division 2   assembly room with an occupant load of less than 1,000     20.00
             and a stage
             Any building or portion of a building having an
             assembly room with an occupant load of 300 or more
Division 2.1 without a stage, including such buildings used for         15.00
             educational purposes and not classed as a group E or
             group B, division 2 occupancy
             Any building or portion of a building having an
             assembly room with an occupant load of less than 300
Division 3   without a stage, including such buildings used for         10.00
             educational purposes and not classified as a group E or
             group B, division 2 occupancy
             Stadiums, reviewing stands and amusement park
             structures not included within other group A
Division 4   occupancies. Specific and general requirements for          5.00
             grandstands, bleachers and reviewing stands are to be
             found in chapter 33 of the UBC code
 
   GROUP B OCCUPANCIES DEFINED
Sec. 601. Group B occupancies shall be:
 
                                                                   Annual Fee
           Gasoline service stations, garages where no repair work
Division 1 is done except exchange of parts and maintenance             $ 5.00
           requiring no open flame, welding or use of class I, II or
           III-A liquids
           Drinking and dining establishments having an occupant        10.00
           load of less than 50, wholesale and retail stores, office  
           buildings, printing plants, municipal police and fire      
           stations, factories and workshops using materials not      
           highly flammable or combustible, storage and sales rooms   
           for combustible goods, paint stores without bulk handling  
Division 2 (See section 402 of the UBC Code for definition of         
           assembly buildings)                                        
                                                                     
           Buildings or portions of buildings having rooms used for   
           educational purposes beyond the 12th grade with less than  
           50 occupants in any room                                   
                                                                        10.00
                                                                        5.00
           Aircraft hangers where no repair work is done except       
           exchange of parts and maintenance requiring no open        
           flame, welding or the use of Class I or II liquids         
Division 3                                                           
           Open parking garages                                       
                                                                       80.00
           Heliports                                                  
                                                                        10.00
                                                                      
           Ice plants, power plants, pumping plants, cold storage       10.00
           and creameries                                             
                                                                     
           Factories and workshops using noncombustible and             10.00
Division 4 nonexplosive materials                                     
                                                                     
           Storage and sales rooms containing only noncombustible     
           and nonexplosive materials that are not packaged or          10.00
           crated in or supported by combustible material
  
   GROUP E OCCUPANCIES DEFINED
Sec. 801. General: Group E occupancies shall be:
 
                                                                   Annual Fee
           Any building used for educational purposes through the
Division 1 12th grade by 50 or more persons for more than 12 hours      $20.00
           per week or 4 hours in any one day
           Any building used for educational purposes through the
Division 2 12th grade by less than 50 persons for more than 12 hours    10.00
           per week or 4 hours in any one day
Division 3 Any building used for daycare purposes for more than 6       10.00
           children
 
 
   GROUP H OCCUPANCIES DEFINED
Sec. 901. General: Group H occupancies shall be:
 
                                                                     Annual Fee
           Storage, handling, use or sale of hazardous and highly
           flammable or explosive materials other than Class I, II
           or III-A liquids
            
Division 1 EXCEPTION: The storage, handling, use or sale of             $30.00
           hazardous materials or chemicals that do not exceed the
           quantities listed in Table No. 9-A of the UBC Code are
           permitted in other occupancies, provided the storage,
           handling, use or sale of such hazardous materials or
           chemicals is in compliance with the fire code
           Storage, handling, use or sale of Classes I, II and III-
           A liquids, dry cleaning plants using Class I, II or III-
           A liquids; paint stores with bulk handling; paint shops
           and spray-painting rooms and shops
Division 2                                                             30.00
           EXCEPTION: The storage, handling, use or sale of liquids
           in quantities that do not exceed those set forth in Table
           No. 9-A of the UBC Code are permitted in other
           occupancies, provided the storage, handling, use or sale
           is in compliance with the fire code
           Woodworking establishments, planing mills, box factories,
           buffing rooms for tire-rebuilding plants and picking
Division 3 rooms; shops, factories or warehouses where loose            20.00
           combustible fibers or dust are manufactured, processed,
           generated or stored; and pin-refinishing rooms
Division 4 Repair garages not classified as a Group B, Division 1       10.00
Division 5 Aircraft repair hangars                                      10.00
           Semiconductor fabrication facilities and comparable
           research and development areas when the facilities in
           which hazardous production materials are used, are
           designed and constructed in accordance with section 911
           of the UBC Code and when storage, handling and use of
Division 6 hazardous materials in accordance with the fire code         30.00
            
           EXCEPTION: The specified uses need not be classified as
           Group H, Division 6 occupancy when the quantities of
           hazardous materials do not exceed those listed in Table
           No. 9-A of the UBC Code, provided the storage, handling
           and use are in compliance with the fire code
 
   C.   Special Provisions: In buildings used for educational purposes,
vocational shops, laboratories and similar areas need not be classified as
Group H occupancies, provided:
      1.   Such areas are separated from classrooms other than the classroom
directly related to the use by not less than a one-hour fire-resistive
occupancy separation.
      2.   Such areas are separated from each other by not less than a one-hour
fire-resistive occupancy separation unless the uses are determined to be
compatible.
      3.   The requirements of sections 905, 908, 910 of the fire code shall be
met when applicable.
 
 
   GROUP I OCCUPANCIES DEFINED
Sec. 1001. Group I occupancies shall be:
 
                                                                     Annual Fee
           Nurseries for the full-time care of children under the
           age of 6 (each accommodating more than 5 persons)
Division 1                                                             $10.00
           Hospitals, sanitariums,nursing homes with nonambulatory
           patients and similar buildings each accommodating more
           than 5 persons
           Nursing homes for ambulatory patients, homes for children
Division 2 6 years of age or over (each accommodating more than 5       10.00
           persons)
           Mental hospitals, mental sanitariums, jails, prisons,
           reformatories and buildings when personal liberties of
           inmates are similarly restrained
Division 3                                                             20.00
           EXCEPTION: Group I occupancies shall not include
           buildings used only for private residential purposes for
           a family group
 
 
   GROUP R OCCUPANCIES DEFINED
Sec. 1201. Group R occupancies shall be:
 
                                                                     Annual Fee
           Hotels and apartment houses
Division 1                                                          $20.00
           Convents and monasteries (each accommodating more than
           10 persons)
Division 2 Not used                                                
Division 3 Dwellings and lodging houses                               5.00
 
(Ord. 3555, 5-23-1988; amd. Ord. 3725, 7-2-1990; Ord. 3994, 12-13-1993; Ord.
4041, 9-26-1994)
 
Notes
1 1. Reinspection fees do not apply if violations are corrected prior to the
  scheduled reinspection date.
9-2A-7: EXPLOSIVES, AMMUNITION AND BLASTING AGENTS 1 :
   A.   Permit Required, Fee:
 
                                                  Fee
Manufacture, possess, store, sell or otherwise
dispose of explosives, blasting agents or small    $25.00
arms ammunition
Operate a terminal                                 25.00
Blasting: Blasting fees are for the use,
handling and storage of explosives used             
primarily for construction or demolition.
Each site 1 to 30 days                             150.00
Each additional 30 days or fraction thereof
Note: No permit shall be valid for a period longer 50.00
than 90 days.
 
 
   B.   Certificate Of Fitness, Fees:
 
Certificate of fitness - new
Blasting/transportation          25.00
Transportation only              10.00
Certificate of fitness - renewal
Blasting transportation          10.00
Transportation only              10.00
 
(Ord. 3555, 5-23-1988; amd. Ord. 3725, 7-2-1990; Ord. 3994, 12-13-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. See also article C of this chapter.
9-2A-8: FIREWORKS:
Possess, store, manufacture, sale and discharge of fireworks:
 
                                Fee
Certificate of fitness - new     $25.00
Certificate of fitness - renewal 10.00
 
Fireworks and pyrotechnics. This includes the public display of fireworks and
the use of pyrotechnic devices for stage shows, theater and other public
displays.
Event
                                      
Each new fireworks location           $150.00
Repeat locations previously approved:
   Display cost:                    
      $1.00 to $1,000.00        25.00
      $1,001.00 to $5,000.00    50.00
      Greater than $5,000.00    100.00
                                      
   Multiple showing/displays:       
      Each additional showing/di50.00
 
Note: The multiple showing/displays category shall apply to similar showings/
displays taking place at the same locations over a specified period of time,
such as a theatrical event running for more than one showing, or more than one
day.
(Ord. 3994, 12-13-1993)
9-2A-9: FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS:
Permit Required:
 Fee
                                               Fee
Storage, handling or use, class I               $25.00
Storage, handling or use, class II or IIIA      25.00
Manufacturing, processing, blending or refining 25.00
Storage in stationary tanks                     25.00
Construct, reconstruct, alter service stations  25.00
Defuel                                          25.00
Slurry fill                                     25.00
Abandon                                         25.00
 
Flammable/combustible liquid tank installation: This shall include all
flammable/combustible liquid tanks, installed above or below ground and
required piping, valves and dispensing equipment. This shall include, but not
be limited to, gasoline, diesel, oil, waste oil and other flammable and
combustible liquids.
 
Tanks:
   Each ta$200.00
 
Flammable/combustible liquid tank modification: This shall include all
flammable/combustible liquid tanks and required piping, valves and dispensing
equipment. Tanks may be of the aboveground or belowground type. Modification
shall include reconstruction, tapping, tank cutting, vent pipe relocations,
dispenser piping, repiping and tank repair of repiping.
 
Modifications, as described above $50.00
 
Note: If the valuation of the work performed exceeds 50 percent of the
replacement cost of the system the fees for a new installation shall apply.
Underground tank removal: This shall apply to the removal of flammable or
combustible liquid tanks in accordance with regulation 16-B of the Waterloo
fire code.
 
Removal:                    
   Single tank          $150.00
   Multiple tanks:       
      First          150.00
      Each additional25.00
 
Note: No additional fee shall be charged for pump out when the pump out and
tank removal work is performed concurrently.
(Ord. 4041, 9-26-1994)
9-2A-10: SPECIAL AMUSEMENT BUILDINGS:
A "special amusement building" is a building that is temporary, permanent or
mobile that contains a device or system that conveys passengers or provides a
walkway along, around or over a course in any direction as a form of amusement
arranged so that egress path is not readily apparent due to visual or audio
distractions or an intentionally confounded egress path, or is not readily
available because of the mode of conveyance through the building or structure.
   A.   Permit Required, Fee: It shall be unlawful for any person or
organization to set up or cause to be set up a structure to be used as a place
of amusement as a special amusement building or any other type of comparable
inside entertainment within the city limits without first having made
application to and received a permit to do so in accordance with the conditions
and limitations as set out in this article.
 
                          Fee
Special amusement building $250.00
 
(Ord. 5070, 9-6-2011)
   B.   Application: The applicant for such permit shall file an application in
writing with the city clerk, which application shall be accompanied by a set of
plans. Such applications shall further specify:
      1.   The name of person or organization which will use structure;
      2.   The address of such person or organization;
      3.   The names and addresses of the offices of such organizations;
      4.   The length of time the structure is intended to be used for the
purposes applied for;
      5.   The hours of the day or night during which such structure is
intended to be used by the public;
      6.   Such other relevant information as the fire marshal, building
official or city council may require. (Ord. 3994, 12-13-1993; amd. 2001 Code)
   C.   Liability Insurance: The applicant shall furnish evidence that a
general liability insurance policy in the amount of three hundred thousand
dollars ($300,000.00) naming the city as an additional insured, shall be in
effect at the time such structure is to be occupied as a special amusement
building. (Ord. 5070, 9-6-2011)
   D.   Restoration Of Property Used: The applicant shall provide a signed
statement that the property used will be cleaned up and restored to its
original and safe condition. (Ord. 3994, 12-13-1993; amd. 2001 Code)
   E.   Time For Filing Application; Inspection: The application shall be filed
at least fifteen (15) days prior to the scheduled opening of the special
amusement building. Final inspection by the fire marshal and the building
department shall be made seven (7) days prior to the opening date. (Ord. 5070,
9-6-2011)
   F.   Safety Standards: The fire marshal and the building official shall
determine if the applicant has made provision for minimum safety standards to
protect the life, limb, health and property of the public.
Note: Iowa Code provides that all slides and moving walkways be approved by the
Iowa department of labor.
   G.   Structure Must Conform To Plans And Specifications: If the fire marshal
and building department find that all of the limitations and requirements of
the permit and this article have been complied with and that the structure has
been erected in accordance with the plans and specifications submitted with the
application, the city clerk shall grant a permit to occupy such premises.
If the fire marshal and building department find that any of the limitations
and requirements of the permit and this article have not been complied with or
that the structure has not been erected in accordance with the plans and
specifications submitted with the applications, the city clerk may deny a
permit to occupy such premises.
   H.   Revocation Of Occupancy Permit: If the fire marshal or building
department find that such structure or the premises on which it is located is
being maintained in violation of any of the provisions of the permit or this
article, the city clerk may revoke the permit to occupy provided for herein.
Notice of this revocation shall be served personally or sent by regular mail to
the name and address indicated on the application.
   I.   Appeal Revocation Or Denial: Any person or organization whose permit to
occupy has been denied or revoided as aforesaid may, within seven (7) days
after receipt of a notice thereof, appeal to the city council for a hearing
thereon, and the decision of the city council in this regard shall be final. If
no appeal is taken within seven (7) days as provided herein, the action of the
city clerk shall be final.
   J.   Supervisors Required: The permittee shall provide one supervisor for
each five (5) patrons within the amusement area. (Ord. 3994, 12-13-1993; amd.
2001 Code)
   K.   Permittee's Responsibility For Defense: The permittee shall defend, at
his own expense, any litigation arising from the operation of the special
amusement building for which he holds a permit. (Ord. 5070, 9-6-2011)
   L.   Violation; Penalty: Any person who violates any of the provisions of
this section shall be guilty of a municipal infraction, and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined as provided in subsection
1-3-2C of this code. (Ord. 3994, 12-13-1993; amd. 2001 Code)
9-2A-11: REFERENCE MATERIALS:
 Fee
                               Fee
Single case fees:                
   1 – 20 pages of a case  $10.00
   21 – 100 pages (per page0.25
   101 or more pages (per hou30.00
Multiple case fees:              
   5 cases requested         10.00
   6 or more cases (per case)5.00
Computer searches:               
   Per search per address    20.00
Photographs:                     
   Per photograph            10.00
 
(Ord. 4452, 12-11-2000)
9-2A-12: SERVICES:
   A.   Fees 1 :
 Fee
                                                      Fee
Fire watch, per man hour                              $ 65.00
Special events, life safety inspection to ensure      65.00
public safety, per inspection hour
Reimbursement for extinguishment cost for
intentionally set fires through the court              
system or fire response:
   Engine company response, first hour,            200.00
per engine
   Engine company response, additional             100.00
hours, per engine, per hour
   Aerial company response, first hour             300.00
   Aerial company response, additional             200.00
hours per hour
   Command vehicle, per hour                       95.00
   Paramedic ambulance, per hour                   195.00
   Fire investigations, per man hour               65.00
Fire sprinkler systems/fire alarm systems:             
                                                       
   0 – 4,999 square feet (per floor)             80.00
   5,000 – 7,499 square feet (per floor)         160.00
   7,500+ square feet (per floor)                  240.00
   Standpipe (additional per standpipe)            150.00
   Sprinkler riser (additional per riser)          150.00
   Fire alarm panel (additional)                   150.00
   Alternate fire extinguishing systems (as listed 180.00
in currently adopted fire code)
   Residential fire sprinkler system               100.00
   Reinspection due to test failure/inspections    65.00
before/after business hours per man hour
 
(Ord. 5074, 9-6-2011)
   B.   Lien: All fees and charges required by this article, if not paid within
sixty (60) days, shall constitute a lien upon the premises served by said
service and may be certified to the county treasurer and collected in the same
manner as taxes. A notice of all unpaid fees shall be sent to the property
owner if different from the nonresidential business, informing the property
owner of the lien on the property.
   C.   Payment: All fees and charges required by this article shall be paid to
the city clerk and such charges therefor as shall be, from time to time,
established and set by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 3994, 12-13-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  4-3-8C of this code.
ARTICLE B. ALARM SYSTEMS 1
SECTION:
9-2B-1: Purpose And Definitions
9-2B-2: False Alarm Fee Schedule
9-2B-3: Service By Mail
9-2B-4: Judicial Review
9-2B-5: Penalties For Violation
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 3, chapter 6 of this code.
9-2B-1: PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS:
   A.   The purpose of this article is to provide minimum standards and
regulations applicable to fire alarms, alarm agents and alarm users as defined
in this article.
   B.   For the purpose of this article, the following terms, phrases, words
and their derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words used in the plural number include the singular number, and
masculine pronouns include the feminine. The word "shall" is always mandatory
and not merely directory.
ANSI: Stands for American National Standards Institute.
ALARM AGENT: Any person employed by an alarm business whose duties include the
altering, installing, maintaining, moving, repairing, replacing, leasing,
servicing, responding to, or causing others to respond to an alarm device.
ALARM SYSTEM: An assembly of equipment and devices (or a single device such as
a solid-state unit) arranged to signal the presence of a hazard requiring
urgent attention and to which fire department agents are expected to respond.
In this article, the term "alarm system" shall include the terms "automatic
fire alarms", "manual fire alarms", and "fire alarms" as those terms are
hereinafter defined.
ALARM USER: Any person on whose premises an alarm system is maintained within
the city or any person using such system. Excluded from this definition and
from the coverage of this article are persons who use alarm systems to alert or
signal persons within the premises in which the alarm system is located.
ANNUNCIATOR: The instrumentation at the receiving terminal of a signal line
which through both visual and audible signals shows when an alarm device at a
particular location has been activated or it may also indicate line trouble.
AUTOMATIC FIRE ALARM: An alarm system in which the signal transmission is
initiated by reaction to a fire or extinguishing system.
CITY: The city of Waterloo, Iowa.
FALSE ALARM: The activation of an alarm system through careless use or improper
maintenance by the owner or lessee of an alarm system or by his/her employees
or agents. Such terminology does not include, for example, alarms caused by
hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes or other violent conditions.
FIRE ALARM SYSTEM: Refers to an alarm system signaling a fire or activated
extinguishing equipment.
FIRE CHIEF: The chief of the fire department of the city, or his designated
representative.
FIRE DEPARTMENT: The publicly supported fire department of the city, or any
authorized agent thereof.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind.
UL: Stands for Underwriters' Laboratories. (Ord. 4458, 2-26-2001)
9-2B-2: FALSE ALARM FEE SCHEDULE:
   A.   Definition: "False fire alarm" means the activation of a fire alarm
system through technical failure, malfunction, improper installation, or the
negligence of the owner or lessee of an alarm system or of his or her employees
or agents. A false alarm under this section does not include alarm system
failures caused by water, gas, electrical, telephone or other transmission
lines or devices not under the control of an alarm user or his or her agent or
employee, the wilful act of any person other than the alarm user or his or her
agent or employee, and does not include failures due to conditions clearly
beyond the control of the alarm user or his or her agents or employees. False
fire alarm includes alarms which activate a signal to which the fire department
responds with equipment and personnel without regard to whether the alarm is
connected to any receiving alarm station. It also includes the wilful use of an
alarm system for purposes other than warning or notification of a fire. A false
alarm does not include any activation of an alarm which is caused by storms,
tornadoes, or other violent weather conditions.
   B.   False Alarm Penalties:
      1.   The fire department is authorized to impose monetary fee penalties
upon fire alarm users who have three (3) or more false alarms per fiscal year
of alarm use. Alarm users shall be granted two (2) false fire alarms, which
fall under the definition set out in subsection A of this section, without a
fee charge, per fiscal year of use. All careless use, improper maintenance,
improper installation, malfunction or alarms due to negligence, after the two
(2) nonchargeable alarms, shall be subject to the false alarm schedule found in
subsection C of this section.
      2.   Further, if an alarm owner, user, or designated representative,
agent or employee refuses to respond to the place of business or residence to
reset the alarm, or does not report within thirty (30) minutes of the city fire
department's response to the location, the owner and/or alarm user will be
assessed a fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00), in addition to the appropriate
fee from the false fire alarm schedule, for the call.
   C.   False Fire Alarm Penalty Fee Schedule For Fiscal Year:
      1.   Third through and including fourth false alarm: Two hundred dollars
($200.00) per each alarm.
      2.   Fifth through and including ninth false alarm: Two hundred seventy
five dollars ($275.00) per each alarm.
      3.   Tenth and above false alarms: Four hundred twenty five dollars
($425.00) per each alarm.
   D.   New Fire Alarm Installations: No alarm, which occurs within thirty (30)
calendar days of the date of notification of the installation of a new alarm or
alarm system, shall be considered a false alarm, or be subject to false fire
alarm penalty fees.
   E.   Technical Failure, Equipment Malfunction, Or Improper Installation:
      1.   The owner and/or user of any newly installed fire alarm system,
which transmits three (3) or more false alarms, from day thirty one (31) to and
including day sixty (60), due to technical failure, equipment malfunction, or
improper installation, shall be subject to the assessment and billing of a
false fire alarm fee based on the following fee schedule:
         a.   Third through and including seventh false alarm: Fifty dollars
($50.00) per each alarm.
         b.   Eighth false alarm and above: One hundred dollars ($100.00) per
each alarm.
      2.   After day sixty (60) any subsequent false fire alarms shall be
subject to the provisions found in the false fire alarm penalty fee schedule
for fiscal year in subsection C of this section.
   F.   Fee Alternative: As an alternative to the imposition of fees for false
alarms based upon technical failure, equipment malfunction, or improper
installation, the fire chief or designated representative may waive such fees
if the owner and/or alarm user agrees to upgrade the existing alarm system in
such a manner which, in the determination of the fire chief or designated
representative, will significantly reduce or prevent further false fire alarms.
The alarm owner and/or alarm user shall submit appropriate documentation and
specifications of such alarm system upgrade to the fire chief or designated
representative for review. If such alarm system upgrades are approved by the
fire chief or designated representative, imposition of fees for false fire
alarms based on technical failure, equipment malfunction, or improper
installation will be held in abeyance pending installation of such upgrades.
The owner and/or alarm user shall be given thirty (30) calendar days in which
to complete the alarm system upgrade following approval of the proposed system
upgrade specifications. Notice of approval or disapproval shall be given in
writing and served on the alarm owner and/or alarm user by mail. Failure of the
alarm system owner and/or alarm user to complete such upgrade within the
specified thirty (30) calendar days shall result in imposition of the technical
failure, equipment malfunction, or improper installation fee schedule as
provided in subsection E of this section.
   G.   Alternative Fire Watch: When, in the opinion of the fire chief, it is
essential for public safety, the fire chief may require the owner and/or alarm
user to provide standby personnel at the premises to keep a diligent watch for
fire, until the fire alarm system is restored. (Ord. 4746, 11-22-2004)
9-2B-3: SERVICE BY MAIL:
Whenever a person, the fire chief or any city official or employee is required
to make delivery by certified mail, delivery, in lieu thereof, may be made by
hand by any person eighteen (18) years of age or older. (Ord. 3734, 8-13-1990;
amd. Ord. 4458, 2-26-2001)
9-2B-4: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Nothing herein shall be deemed to deny to any person claiming to be aggrieved
by any determination hereunder any applicable judicial remedies provided for by
Iowa Code, including the right to appeal to district court. (Ord. 3734, 8-13-
1990; amd. Ord. 4458, 2-26-2001)
9-2B-5: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION:
   A.   Any violation of this article constitutes a municipal infraction and
shall be punishable by the following, including injunctive relief. Each day
that the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
 
First offense           $200.00
Second offense          500.00
Each subsequent offense 750.00
 
   B.   All fees and charges required by this article, if not paid within sixty
(60) days, shall constitute a lien upon the premises served by said service and
may be certified to the county treasurer and collected in the same manner as
taxes.
   C.   All fees and charges required by this article shall be paid to the city
clerk and such charges shall be established and set by resolution of the city
council. (Ord. 4458, 2-26-2001)
ARTICLE C. EXPLOSIVES AND FIREWORKS
SECTION:
9-2C-1: Storage And Sale Of Explosives
9-2C-2: Use Of Explosives
9-2C-3: Explosives Permits
9-2C-4: Fireworks
9-2C-1: STORAGE AND SALE OF EXPLOSIVES:
The storage and sale of explosives and explosive devices in the city shall be
in conformance with the fire prevention code adopted in section
9-2-2 of this chapter. (1970 Code, § 13-1)
9-2C-2: USE OF EXPLOSIVES:
   A.   Rules And Regulations: The city council may make rules and regulations
covering blasting and the use of explosives, and the failure to comply with any
of the rules and regulations so promulgated, after actual notice of the
existence of the rules and regulations, shall be deemed to be an offense.
   B.   Inspections: All blasting or the use of explosives shall be inspected
and supervised by the city council. The city council may appoint an inspector
to supervise blasting or the use of explosives, and the inspection and
supervision in such a case shall be for such a period of time as the city
council shall deem necessary for the performance of the service. When
inspection is performed, the sum of five dollars ($5.00) per one-half (1/2) day
(4 hours), or a fraction thereof, shall be deducted from the special or general
deposit made in accordance with the provisions of this article. (Rev. Ord.
1781, Comp. 1941, p. E-8)
9-2C-3: EXPLOSIVES PERMITS:
   A.   Required: No person shall blast or use any explosives for blasting
purposes without first obtaining a permit in writing therefor from the city
clerk.
   B.   Application; Contents: Any person desiring to obtain a permit required
by this section shall file with the city clerk a petition in writing therefor,
signed by the applicant, which petition shall contain a description of the
premises whereon the blasting is to be done.
   C.   Factors Considered For Permit: The city council must first satisfy
itself that the granting of the permit required by this section will in no way
jeopardize or seriously menace the public peace, health or safety, and the city
council may consider any facts or evidence bearing on the location where the
blasting is proposed to be done, the experience of the applicant for the
permit, and any other facts or evidence tending to enlighten the city council
in this respect.
   D.   Deposit Required:
      1.   No permit required by this section shall be issued until the
applicant therefor shall have deposited eleven dollars ($11.00) to cover the
cost in connection with the issuance of the permit and the necessary inspection
in connection therewith, for each day during any portion of which blasting or
the use of any explosive is to be carried on by the applicant; however, any
applicant may make and maintain with the city council a general deposit of
three hundred dollars ($300.00), which general deposit shall be used for the
same purpose as a special deposit mentioned in this subsection, and while the
general deposit is maintained at the sum of three hundred dollars ($300.00),
the applicant shall not be required to make the special deposit mentioned in
this subsection, but shall be required to comply with all other provisions of
this article relating to blasting.
      2.   The city clerk shall deduct from the special or general deposit made
pursuant to subsection D1 of this section the sum of one dollar ($1.00) to
cover the cost of the permit, and the costs of service of the inspector
therefor, and the remainder of the general or special deposit, if there be any
remainder upon the surrender of the permit, shall be refunded to the person
making the deposit or to his assigns. In case the deposit made pursuant to
subsection D1 of this section shall not be sufficient to pay the cost of the
service of the inspector, the person to whom the permit is issued shall, upon
demand, pay to the city clerk a sum sufficient to cover all such costs; upon
failure to pay such sum, it may be recovered by the City in any court of
competent jurisdiction.
   E.   Contents Of Permit: Each permit issued by the City Council pursuant
hereto shall contain a description of the premises and the name of the person
to whom such permit is issued and the hours between which the blasting shall be
done.
   F.   Revocation Of Permit: When any permit is issued in accordance with the
provisions of this section, it may be revoked at any time by the City Council
when it appears that any provisions of this article relating to explosives have
been violated. (Rev. Ord. 1781, Comp. 1941, p. E-8)
9-2C-4: FIREWORKS 1 :
   A.   Defined: The term "fireworks" includes any explosive composition, or
combination of explosive substances, or articles prepared for the purpose of
producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration or
detonation, and includes blank cartridges, firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets,
Roman candles or other fireworks of like construction and any fireworks
containing any explosive or inflammable compound, or other device containing
any explosive substance. The term "fireworks" does not include goldstar-
producing sparklers on wires which contain no magnesium or chlorate or
perchlorate, flitter sparklers in paper tubes that do not exceed one-eighth (1/
8) of an inch in diameter, toy snakes which contain no mercury or caps used in
cap pistols. (Ord. 4370, 7-12-1999)
   B.   Permits: The City Council may, upon application in writing, grant a
permit for the display of fireworks by fair associations, amusement parks and
other organizations or groups of individuals approved by the City Council, when
the fireworks display will be handled by a competent operator. After the
privilege has been granted by the City Council, sales of fireworks for display
may be made for that purpose only. As consideration of this privilege granted
by the City Council, the applicant for a permit shall indemnify and save
harmless the City of Waterloo, Iowa, its employees and agents, for any and all
liability that may arise out of the permit and/or the discharging of fireworks
within the City limits of the City of Waterloo, Iowa. As a further condition,
the applicant for the permit shall provide general liability insurance for the
discharge of the fireworks naming the City of Waterloo, Iowa, as an additional
insured and in the minimum amount of two million dollars ($2,000,000.00). A
certificate of insurance shall be provided to the City Clerk prior to any
discharging of fireworks and at the time the application for permit is
submitted for consideration by the City Council. (Ord. 4512, 9-17-2001)
   C.   Penalties: A violation of this article shall result in a scheduled fine
of five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the first offense and seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each subsequent offense. In addition to the civil
penalty, the court may impose any appropriate alternative relief ordering the
defendant to abate or cease the violation. (Ord. 4370, 7-12-1999)
 
Notes
  1. See also section
1 5-2-13 and subsection
  7-8-5A of this Code.
CHAPTER 3
ELECTRICAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Title
9-3-2: Purpose And Scope
9-3-3: Definitions
9-3-4: Rules Of Construction
9-3-5: National Electrical Code Adoption
9-3-6: National Electrical Code Amendments
9-3-7: 2017 NEC Annex H Amendments
9-3-8: Penalty; Abatement Of Violations
9-3-9: Applicability Of Chapter To Existing Buildings
9-3-10: Moved Buildings
9-3-11: Disclaimer
9-3-12: Liability Of Electrical Inspector
9-3-13: Reserved
9-3-14: Unlawful Connections
9-3-15: Inspection Of Wiring Required Prior To Installation Of Meter
9-3-16: Alteration Of Identification Or Rating Markings
9-3-17: Conflict Of Interest
9-3-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the WATERLOO ELECTRICAL CODE, may be so cited
and may be referred to hereinafter as the "code". (Ord. 5392, 3-20-2017)
9-3-2: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to adopt an Electrical Code by reference,
including provisions for the inspection and regulation of electrical
installation, issuance of permits, the collection of fees, and to provide
penalties for violations of this chapter in order to protect the public health,
safety, and welfare.
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to and govern all uses,
installations, alterations, repairs, removals, renewals, replacements,
connections, disconnections, and maintenance of all electrical equipment within
the City of Waterloo, Iowa. (Ord. 5392, 3-20-2017)
9-3-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
APPEAL BOARD: The Board created in section
9-3-7 of this chapter.
APPROVED BY THE ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR: Found by the inspector to comply with the
requirements of this chapter and, in the absence of such requirements, found by
the inspector to be safe in respect to life and property as measured by the
standards established in this chapter and the National Electrical Code and
National Fire Protection Association standards.
ELECTRICAL CONTRACTING: Undertaking, or offering to undertake, the planning and
installation of electrical systems and equipment and the employment,
management, supervision and control of electricians and apprentice electricians
doing electrical work.
ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR: Any person responsible for the activity of planning, or
supervising electricians and apprentices doing electrical wiring, work, or
equipment installations and connections to apparatus, which is or will be
connected to an electric light and power source.
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT: All electrical materials, wiring, conductors, fittings,
conduits, devices, appliances, fixtures, signs and apparatus or parts thereof
comprising an electrical system or control of such system.
ELECTRICAL MAINTENANCE WORK: The repair of the existing electrical equipment,
or limited replacement and extensions of branch circuits as determined by the
chief electrical inspector.
ELECTRICAL WORK: All installations, alterations, repairs, removals,
replacements, disturbances, connections, disconnections and maintenance of
wiring and electrical equipment, or control of any of the above, over twenty
five (25) volts, and wiring systems through, or by which is conveyed, or
intended to be conveyed, electrical current in, above, or under any building,
structure, tent, or premises, public, or privately owned, in the City of
Waterloo, Iowa.
ELECTRICIAN: Any person doing electrical work for an electrical contractor.
EXAMINING BOARD: The board created in section
9-3-7 of this chapter.
LICENSED OR QUALIFIED PERSON: Any person who has been examined and licensed by
the Examining Board and has its approval to install, remove, alter or make
additions to any electrical work in the City.
SHALL: That the act to be performed is mandatory. (Ord. 5392, 3-20-2017)
9-3-4: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
In this chapter certain terms shall be construed as follows:
   A.   Electrical terms are definitions relating to electrical equipment,
wiring methods and special wiring locations and conditions shall be those
accepted by the trade and listed in the National Electrical Code or other
recognized safe wiring manuals or tests.
   B.   Building classification and occupancy shall be determined from the City
Building Code and the City zoning ordinance. (Ord. 5392, 3-20-2017)
9-3-5: NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTION:
   A.   The 2020 edition of the National Electrical Code, including article 90,
chapters 1 through 9, and annex A, B, C, D and H, inclusive, as published by
the National Electrical Code Committee, and adopted by the National Fire
Protection Association, is hereby adopted by reference and is effective as if
fully set forth in this article. Where, in any specific case, different
sections of this article specify different materials, methods of construction
or requirements, the most restrictive shall govern. (Ord. 5428, 12-11-2017;
amd. Ord. 5596, 4-19-2021, eff. 4-1-2021)
9-3-6: NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Amendments To 2020 NEC Chapter 2 Amendments:
   Delete section 210.8(A) and insert in lieu thereof the following new
section:
      210.8(A) Dwelling Units.
      All 125-volt receptacles installed in locations specified in 210.8(A)(1)
through 210.8(A)(11) shall ground-fault circuit-interrupter protection for
personnel.
         (1)   Bathrooms
         (2)   Garages and also accessory buildings that have a floor located
at or below grade level not intended to be habitable rooms and limited to
storage areas, work areas or similar use.
         (3)   Outdoors
            Exception to (3): Receptacles that are not readily accessible and
are suppled branch circuit dedicated to electrical snow-melting, de-icing, or
pipeline and vessel heating equipment shall be permitted to be installed in
accordance with 426.28 or 427.22, as applicable.
         (4)   Crawl spaces - at or below grade level.
         (5)   Basements
            Exception to (5): A receptacle supplying only a permanently
installed file alarm or burglar alarm system shall not be required to have
ground-fault circuit-interrupter protection.
            Informational Note: See 760.41B and 760.121(B) for power supply
requirements for fire alarm systems.
            Receptacles installed under the exception to 201.8(A)(5) shall not
be considered as meeting the requirements of 210.52(G).
         (6)   Kitchens - where the receptacles are installed to serve the
countertop surfaces.
         (7)   Sinks - Where receptacles are installed to serve the countertop
surfaces.
         (8)   Boathouses
         (9)   Bathtubs or shower stalls - where receptacles are installed
within 1.8 m (6 ft) of the outside edge of the bathtub or shower stall.
         (10)   Laundry areas
            Exception to (1) through (3), (5) through (8), and (10): Listed
locking support and mounting receptacles utilized in combination with
compatible attachment fittings installed for the purpose of serving a ceiling
luminaire or ceiling fan shall not be required to be ground-fault circuit-
interrupter protected. If a general-purpose convenience receptacle is integral
to the ceiling luminaire or ceiling fan, GFCI protection shall be provided.
         (11)   Indoor damp and wet locations
   Delete section 210.8(F).
(Ord. 5428, 12-11-2017; amd. Ord. 5596, 4-19-2021, eff. 4-1-2021)
9-3-7: 2017 NEC ANNEX H AMENDMENTS:
80.9(C) Additions, Alterations, Or Repairs, is amended by adding the following:
It is prohibited by this ordinance to perform any repair, add to, or revamp any
residential service less than 60 ampere electrical service.
80.13 Authority, subparagraph (13), is amended by inserting a period after the
words "ready for inspection", and deleting the words, "and shall conduct the
inspection within         days."
80.15 Electrical Board, is deleted in its entirety and the following is
substituted therefor:
ARTICLE 2. BOARD OF ELECTRICAL EXAMINERS AND APPEALS
Membership; Appointment Of Members; Term Of Office
(a) Establishment Of The Board. There is hereby established a board of
electrical examiners and appeals, hereinafter referred to as the "board," with
authority and responsibility as follows:
(1) To act as a board of appeals as provided in the Waterloo electrical code.
(2) To periodically review the provisions of the Waterloo electrical code and
make recommendations to the building official for improving and updating said
documents.
(b) Composition Of The Board. The board shall consist of five (5) members, all
of whose place of business, residence, or work is located in the city of
Waterloo. All members shall be qualified by experience and training to pass
judgement upon matters pertaining to electrical construction. The membership
shall be as follows: Two licensed electrical contractors, one licensed, working
electrician, a representative from a public utility company furnishing
electrical power to the city, one electrical engineer capable of designing
systems governed by this code. The electrical inspector shall serve as
secretary to the board. Said board shall serve without compensation.
(c) Appointment Of Members And Terms Of Office. The members of the board of
electrical examiners and appeals shall be appointed by the mayor with the
approval of the city council. After initial appointment of the board the terms
of the members shall be for three years except that the initial terms shall be
so arranged and staggered so that the terms of no more than two members shall
expire any one year. A vacancy within any term shall be filled by appointment
of the mayor with the approval of the city council for the unexpired portion of
that term only.
Powers And Duties Of The Board
The board of electrical examiners and appeals shall have the following powers
and duties:
(a) To act upon reports of violations by licensed master electricians and
journeyman electricians as filed by the electrical inspector with the board.
(b) To keep a complete record of the official proceedings of the board; to
preserve all documents, books and papers relating to appeals and hearing of
complaints and charges for at least three years.
(c) To hear appeals from the decision of the electrical inspector and to rule
on interpretations of the provisions of the Waterloo electrical code, and to
determine the suitability of alternate materials and methods of construction
consistent with the provisions of the Waterloo electrical code.
Meetings; Records
(a) All meetings of the board of electrical examiners and appeals shall be held
in the council chambers, or other location indicated in a public notice posted
24 hours prior to any meeting.
(b) Three members of the board shall constitute a quorum for the transacting of
all business, but any action taken by the board shall require a majority vote
of all members of the board.
(c) The board shall annually elect one of its members as chairperson of the
board.
(d) The secretary of the board shall keep a record of the board meetings and
register the names and residences of all persons examined by the board and the
kind of electrical license issued to each, if any.
Right Of Appeals
Any person shall have the right to appeal any decision of the electrical
inspector to the electrical board of examiners and appeals by filing a written
notice of such appeal with the electrical inspector within ten (10) days from
the date of the inspector's decision. The board shall forthwith fix a time and
place of hearing such appeal which shall not be less than five (5) days nor
more than fifteen (15) days after the date of filing of the notice of such
appeal, and the electrical inspector shall notify the appellant in writing by
registered mail of the time and place of such hearing. After the hearing of
said appeal, the board may sustain or overrule the decision of the electrical
inspector. Decision of the board shall be final unless appealed to the courts
as by law provides.
80.19(a) is amended by adding the following line item #3:
Permit For Installation By Homeowner
      3.   A permit application may be submitted by the homeowner and, upon
approval and payment of required fees, an electrical permit shall be issued.
Such permit authorizes the owner only to install electrical equipment in the
dwelling owned and occupied by the owner, without license or certificate of
insurance, and without help from persons other than family members.
If at any time during the permit or inspection process, the chief electrical
inspector determines the homeowner is unqualified to perform the electrical
work, the homeowner will be required to hire a licensed electrical contractor
to perform the electrical work.
80.19(c1) is amended by adding the following sentence at the end of the
section:
A permit is not required for these repairs if the cost of the repairs does not
exceed $300.00.
80.19(e) is amended by adding the following:
Fees
(a) Payment of fees for electrical permits shall be made on or before the tenth
day of the month following the date of application for the permit or the date
of the statement from the electrical inspector. All fees shall be payable to
the city of Waterloo. All accounts over 60 days due will be put on a "hold"
status until brought current.
(b) Inspection fees shall be paid in such amounts as established by resolution
by the city council.
Inspections
80.19(f) Inspections And Approvals, subparagraph (3), is amended by deleting
the words "or until         days have elapsed from the time of such
notification".
80.23(b) Penalties, subparagraph (3), is deleted in its entirety.
80.25(c) Notification is deleted in its entirety.
80.27 Inspector's Qualifications is amended by deleting said section in its
entirety and substituting the following therefor:
80.27 Inspector's Qualifications.
ARTICLE 3. ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR
Appointment; Qualifications
         (a) The electrical inspector is hereby authorized, directed and
empowered to inspect any and all buildings, structures, tents and premises,
public and private, and, as provided in this ordinance, to condemn and order
removed or remodeled and put into proper and safe condition for the prevention
of fire and for safety to life and property, all electrical equipment
installations and connections of electrical current for light, heat and power
purposes, and to control the disposition and arrangement of such equipment so
that persons and property shall not be in danger therefrom.
         (b) The electrical inspector shall have successfully passed any and
all examinations administered by the civil service commission, have been
recommended to said position by the building official, appointed by the mayor,
and confirmed by the majority of all members of the city council.
         (c) The appointee shall:
            (1) Be a qualified electrician and shall have at least five years
of practical experience in the electrical trade or five years of experience as
an electrical inspector, or, in lieu of such experience, shall be a graduate in
electrical or mechanical engineering of a college or university considered by
the personnel director as having suitable requirements for graduation, and
shall have had two years of practical electrical experience; and
            (2) Be possessed of such executive ability as requisite for the
performance of required duties and have thorough knowledge of the standard
material and methods used in the installation of electrical equipment; and
            (3) Be well versed in improved methods of construction for safety
to persons and property, the statutes of the state relating to electrical work
and any orders, rules and regulations issued by authority thereof, and in the
national electrical code.
         (d) The electrical inspector shall hold a current master or journeyman
electrical license with the state of Iowa or shall be required to pass an
examination prior to his/her appointment.
         (e) He/she shall hold membership in the International Association Of
Electrical Inspectors.
80.28 Licensing, is added as follows:
         (a) License Required
      1. Electrical licenses shall be governed by Iowa Code chapter 103,
Electricians And Electrical Contractors (2008).
         (b) State Of Iowa Class B License. All state of Iowa class B
journeyman's license will be accepted by the city of Waterloo. A state of Iowa
class B master electrician's license will be accepted if the electrician has
held a Waterloo license after January 1, 1990.
         (c) If you have a state of Iowa electrical contractor's license and
wish to pull a permit in the city of Waterloo, a one-time registration fee of
$150.00 will be charged if you have never held a city of Waterloo license.
         (d) Licenses are not transferable, nor shall they be loaned or rented.
(Ord. 5392, 3-20-2017)
9-3-8: PENALTY; ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS:
   A. Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty
of a municipal infraction and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
accordingly.
   B. If any electrical work, including construction or repair, is performed
within the city contrary to the provisions of this chapter, it shall be deemed
a municipal infraction and, in addition to penalties described, shall be abated
in accordance with this chapter.
   C. The doing of any act prohibited or declared to be unlawful, an offense or
a municipal infraction by this chapter or the national electrical code, or the
omission or failure to perform any act or duty required by this chapter or the
national electrical code, is, unless another penalty is specified, punishable
as provided in section
1-3-2 of this code. (Ord. 5392, 3-20-2017)
9-3-9: APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER TO EXISTING BUILDINGS:
   A. If any existing building is damaged due to fire, natural disaster or
otherwise, the areas that are damaged shall be brought up to current city and
national codes. If other areas of the building are altered or repaired due to
damages that occurred, these areas must also be brought up to the current
codes.
   B. If the type of occupancy of an existing building is partially or entirely
changed, the electrical wiring shall be made to conform to the requirements of
the current city and national codes for the new type of occupancy. (Ord. 5392,
3-20-2017)
9-3-10: MOVED BUILDINGS:
   A. Residential moved buildings shall be brought into compliance with the
electrical requirements of new residential type buildings.
Exception: Parts of an electrical system which were not damaged and had been
installed in compliance with the electrical code which was in effect at the
time of installation may be retained in said electrical systems.
   B. Electrical systems in any other moved buildings shall be brought into
compliance with the provisions of this code the same as for new construction.
   C. The permanent service connection shall not be made by the power company
until the electrical system is completely installed, and is approved by the
inspector.
   D. The existing service on the moved building shall not be connected to the
electrical power source unless specifically approved by an inspector. (Ord.
5392, 3-20-2017)
9-3-11: DISCLAIMER:
This chapter shall not be construed to affect the responsibility or liability
of any party owning, operating, controlling or installing any electrical
equipment for damages to persons or property caused by any defect therein, nor
shall the city be held as assuming such liability by reason of the inspection
or reinspection authorized in this chapter or the certificates of approval
issued as provided in this chapter, or by reason of the approval or disapproval
of any equipment authorized in this chapter. (Ord. 5392, 3-20-2017)
9-3-12: LIABILITY OF ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR:
The electrical inspector, acting in good faith and without malice in the
discharge of his/her duties, shall not thereby render himself/herself liable
personally and he/she hereby is relieved from all personal liability for any
damage that may accrue to person or property as a result of any act required or
by reason of any act of omission in the discharge of his/her duties. Any suit
brought against the city because of such act or omission performed by him/her
in the enforcement of any provisions of this chapter shall be defended by the
city. (Ord. 5392, 3-20-2017)
9-3-13: RESERVED:
(Ord. 5392, 3-20-2017)
9-3-14: UNLAWFUL CONNECTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to make connection from a supply of
electricity to any electric equipment that has been installed or which has been
disconnected or ordered to be disconnected by the electrical inspector, until
inspected and approved by the electrical inspector. (Ord. 5392, 3-20-2017)
9-3-15: INSPECTION OF WIRING REQUIRED PRIOR TO INSTALLATION OF METER:
It shall be unlawful for any person to set a meter for electric purposes to any
building or premises, wiring of which has not been inspected and approved by
the electrical inspector. A violation of this section will cause the electrical
inspector to give written notice and immediately cause the removal of such
conditions and the discontinuance of such current. (Ord. 5392, 3-20-2017)
9-3-16: ALTERATION OF IDENTIFICATION OR RATING MARKINGS:
It shall be unlawful to cover, remove, alter, change, or deface the maker's
name or identification mark or any of the rating markings on electrical
equipment. (Ord. 5392, 3-20-2017)
9-3-17: CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
It shall be unlawful for the electrical inspector or assistant electrical
inspectors to engage in the business of the sales, installation or maintenance
of electrical equipment either directly or indirectly, and they shall have no
financial interest in any concern engaged in such business in the city of
Waterloo, at any time, while holding said offices. (Ord. 5392, 3-20-2017)
CHAPTER 4
PLUMBING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Title
9-4-2: Application And Scope
9-4-3: Plumbing Inspector
9-4-4: Defective Work; Unsanitary Conditions
9-4-5: Maintenance And Repairs Of Double Or Multiple House Sewer Connections
9-4-6: Work Requiring Permit Or Approval
9-4-7: Installation By Owner
9-4-8: Notification For Inspection
9-4-9: Applicability To Existing Buildings
9-4-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the WATERLOO PLUMBING CODE and may be so cited
and may be referred to hereinafter as "the code" or "this code". (Ord. 5392, 3-
20-2017; amd. Ord. 5673, 11-21-2022)
9-4-2: APPLICATION AND SCOPE:
The provisions of this chapter shall include and apply to all plumbing work,
plumbing installations and plumbing equipment hereinafter installed,
constructed, altered, serviced or repaired in, for or about any new, remodeled
or relocated building or structure in the city. (Ord. 5392, 3-20-2017; amd.
Ord. 5673, 11-21-2022)
9-4-3: PLUMBING INSPECTOR:
   A.   Appointment: The plumbing inspector shall be appointed by the mayor and
city council after being tested by the civil service commission and upon
recommendation by the building official, and shall work under the direction of
the building official.
   B.   Qualifications:
      1.   The appointee shall be a licensed practical journeyman or master
plumber with not less than ten (10) years' experience; shall possess a
certificate of competency issued by the city or must submit to an examination
of competency administered by the city board of plumbing examiners; shall
possess a valid driver's license; shall possess such executive ability and
requisite for the performance of required duties; shall have thorough knowledge
of the standard materials and methods used in the installation and maintenance
of plumbing equipment; shall be well versed in improved methods of construction
for safety to persons and property, the statutes of the state relating to
sanitation and plumbing and any orders, rules and regulations issued by
authority thereof and in the Uniform Plumbing Code.
      2.   The plumbing inspector shall hold a current journeyman plumber's
license with the Iowa Department of Public Health division for licensing in the
State of Iowa.
   C.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   The plumbing inspector is empowered to inspect any and all buildings
or structures, public or private, and to, as herein provided, condemn, and
order removed or remodeled and put into proper and safe condition all plumbing
and plumbing related items for the protection of the public health, safety and
welfare.
      2.   The plumbing inspector shall have power under the direction of the
building official to exercise judgment in a reasonable and proper manner and
rule accordingly on all special cases in regard to matters in this chapter or
not specifically covered thereby.
      3.   The plumbing inspector shall keep records of sewer connections from
city main(s) to the property line and from the property line to each building
connected to city services.
      4.   The plumbing inspector shall be the code and administrative
authority for the administration of the plumbing code of the city.
   D.   Right Of Entry: Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any
of the provisions of this plumbing code, or whenever the plumbing inspector or
authorized representative has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in
any building or upon any premises, any condition which makes such building or
premises unsafe, the plumbing inspector or authorized representative may enter
such building or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or to
perform any duty imposed upon by this chapter, provided that if such building
or premises be occupied, they shall first present proper credentials and demand
entry; and if such building or premises be unoccupied, they shall first make a
reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control
of the building or premises and request entry. If such entry is refused, the
plumbing inspector or their authorized representative shall have recourse to
every remedy by law to secure entry.
   E.   Unlawful Activities: It shall be unlawful for the plumbing inspector to
engage in the business of the sales, installation or maintenance of plumbing
equipment, either directly or indirectly, and the inspector shall have no
financial interest in any concern engaged in such business in the city, at any
time while holding office as herein provided for. (Ord. 5392, 3-20-2017; amd.
Ord. 5673, 11-21-2022)
9-4-4: DEFECTIVE WORK; UNSANITARY CONDITIONS:
Whenever it shall come to the knowledge of the plumbing inspector that the
plumbing in a building causes a nuisance or may cause disease, sickness, or
otherwise becomes a hazard to health, it shall be the duty of said inspector to
make an inspection of such plumbing and render a report to the proper party,
setting forth the necessary repairs or alterations required to make such
plumbing conform to this chapter. The inspector shall set a limit of time in
which such repairs or alterations are to be made, and upon the refusal or
neglect of the owner, agent, lessee or tenant to comply with said notice within
the time stated, the plumbing inspector shall cause such repairs or alterations
to be made and such nuisance abated and the expense of such work shall be taxed
against such property and become a prior lien thereon; or the inspector may
order the premises vacated and closed to further occupancy until such time as
the required repairs or alterations have been made. (Ord. 5392, 3-20-2017; amd.
Ord. 5673, 11-21-2022)
9-4-5: MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRS OF DOUBLE OR MULTIPLE HOUSE SEWER CONNECTIONS:
   A.   When it shall become necessary to make any repairs or to make any
replacements or in the event of any cost of maintenance of a double or multiple
house sewer between the main sewer and the lot line from which such multiple
connections are extended, the owner of each structure, residence or building
served by such double or multiple house sewer shall pay their proportionate
share of the expenses of such repair, replacement or maintenance cost. Such
double or multiple sewer shall be construed to mean from the branch opening
where the individual sewers enter the double or multiple house sewer to the
point of connection at the city sewer.
   B.   In the event the owner of each structure, residence or building served
by such double or multiple house sewer shall fail to maintain or repair the
same or to make any replacements in the same and to pay their proportionate
share of expense incident thereto, the city shall have the power to order said
replacements, repairs or maintenance, as the case may be, and the actual cost
thereof shall be assessed against such property by certifying to the county
auditor for collection as other special taxes. (Ord. 5392, 3-20-2017; amd. Ord.
5673, 11-21-2022)
9-4-6: WORK REQUIRING PERMIT OR APPROVAL:
No building or premises shall tap any water or sewer main or have installed any
private building sewer, water service, private sewage disposal plant or private
water system or have connections, extensions, replacements, removals or
additions of any nature to the sanitary plumbing or water supply system or
disconnection of any fixture or change in the plumbing system before notifying
the plumbing inspector or his assistant and securing a permit or authority to
proceed with the work. (Ord. 5392, 3-20-2017; amd. Ord. 5673, 11-21-2022)
9-4-7: INSTALLATION BY OWNER:
In cases where the owner/occupant desires to do plumbing work in the owner's
own residence, said owner shall make payment of required fees and a plumbing
permit shall be issued. Said permit authorizes the owner only to do plumbing
work in the dwelling or unit owned and occupied by said owner without
licensing, certificate of insurance or help from other than family members.
Said person performs all labor in connection therewith, has the necessary
inspections made and complies with chapter requirements. (Ord. 5392, 3-20-2017;
amd. Ord. 5673, 11-21-2022)
9-4-8: NOTIFICATION FOR INSPECTION:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the permit holder to notify the inspector that
his work is ready for inspection or test. All inspections require twenty four
(24) hours' notice.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the permit holder to make sure the work will
stand the test prescribed before giving notification.
   C.   If the inspector finds that the work will not stand a required test, or
corrections are required, the plumber shall be required to notify the inspector
when the necessary corrections are complete for re-inspection. If corrections
are still required, the plumber shall make corrections, notify the inspector
for re-inspection and pay a re-inspection fee.
   D.   If the inspector fails to appear within twenty four (24) hours, during
normal working hours, of the time set for each inspection or test, the
inspection or test shall be deemed to have been made; but the plumber doing the
work shall be required to file an affidavit with the plumbing inspector that
the work was installed in accordance with the ordinance and permit, and that it
was free from defects and that the required test had been made and the system
was found free from leaks. (Ord. 5392, 3-20-2017; amd. Ord. 5673, 11-21-2022)
9-4-9: APPLICABILITY TO EXISTING BUILDINGS:
If an existing building is damaged by fire or otherwise or altered in a manner
to require the replacement of fifty percent (50%) or more of the structure as
determined by the authority having jurisdiction, the entire building shall
conform to this chapter's requirements for new buildings. (Ord. 5392, 3-20-
2017; amd. Ord. 5673, 11-21-2022)
ARTICLE A. PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
9-4A-1: Uniform Plumbing Code Adopted
9-4A-2: Amendments
9-4A-3: Exhibits
9-4A-1: UNIFORM PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED:
Except as hereinafter added to, deleted, modified or amended, there is hereby
adopted as the plumbing code of the city, that certain plumbing code known as
the Uniform Plumbing Code, 2021 edition, and any further regulations or
requirements of the State Plumbing Code, and the provisions of said plumbing
code shall be controlling in the construction and maintenance of plumbing and
in all other matters covered by said plumbing code within the city. (Ord. 5392,
3-20-2017; amd. Ord. 5673, 11-21-2022)
9-4A-2: AMENDMENTS:
Section 106 is amended by adding sections as follows:
   106.1.1 Municipal Infraction.
   106.1.2 Any person, firm, or corporation failing to comply with or violating
any of the terms or provisions of this ordinance shall be deemed guilty of a
municipal infraction and upon conviction thereof, be punished accordingly.
   106.1.3 If any plumbing work, including construction or repair, is performed
within the city contrary to the provisions of this ordinance, it shall be
deemed a municipal infraction and in addition to penalties described, shall be
corrected in accordance with this ordinance.
   106.1.4 The omission or failure to perform any act or duty required by this
ordinance or the performing of any act which is prohibited or declared to be
unlawful by this ordinance, an offense or a municipal infraction pursuant to
this ordinance or the uniform plumbing code, is punishable by a fine of up to
two hundred dollars ($200.00), for the first offense and up to four hundred
dollars ($400.00) for each subsequent offense.
   106.1.5 Fees, is hereby repealed in its entirety; a new section 106.1.6
Fees, is hereby enacted in lieu thereof as follows:
   106.1.6 Fees. All plumbing permit and inspection fees shall be established
by resolution of the city council and paid prior to issuance of a permit or re-
inspection.
Section 602 is amended by adding the following subsection:
   602.4.1 Yard hydrants to furnish water for human consumption are prohibited,
unless it is an approved fixture.
Section 603, Specific Requirements for cross connection control is amended by
adding the following subsections:
   603.1.2 Cross Connection Control-Containment Provisions. The purpose is to
safeguard potable water supplies by preventing backflow into public water
systems.
   603.1.3 Definitions. The following definitions shall apply to section 603.13
of the Waterloo Plumbing Code. For the purpose of this section, these
definitions supersede definitions given elsewhere in this code.
      1.   Administrative Authority. For the purpose of this section, the
administrative authority shall be the Waterloo Water Works and plumbing
division of the City of Waterloo Building Inspection Department.
      2.   Approved Backflow Prevention Assembly For Containment. A backflow
prevention assembly which is listed by the University Of Southern California-
Foundation For Cross Connection Control And Hydraulic Research as having met
the requirements of ANSI-AWWA standard C510-89, "Double Check Valve Backflow-
Prevention Assemblies", or ANSI-AWWA standard C511-89, "Reduced-Pressure
Principle Backflow-Prevention Assemblies" for containment. The listing shall
include the limitations of use based on the degree of hazard. The backflow
prevention assembly must also be listed by the International Association of
Plumbing and Mechanical Officials.
      3.   Approved Backflow Prevention Assembly For Containment In A Fire
Protection System. A backflow prevention assembly to be used in a fire
protection system which meets the requirements of Factory Mutual Research
Corporation (FM) and Underwriters Laboratory (UL), and the requirement of the
fire code and the building code of the city, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph a(3). Devices sized smaller than 21/2" which have not been listed by
Underwriters Laboratory (UL) and tested by Factory Mutual Research Corporation
(FM) may be allowed if they meet the requirements of the fire code and the
building code of the city.
      4.   Auxiliary Water Supply. Any water supply on or available to the
premises other than the water purveyor's approved public water supply such as,
but not limited to, a private well, pond or river.
      5.   Containment. A method of backflow prevention which requires the
installation of a backflow prevention assembly at the water service entrance.
      6.   Cross Connection. Any actual or potential connection or arrangement,
physical or otherwise, between a potable water supply system and any plumbing
fixture or tank, receptacle, equipment or device, through which it may be
possible for non-potable, used, unclean, polluted and contaminated water, or
other substance, to enter into any part of such potable water system under any
condition.
      7.   Customer. The owner, operator, or occupant of a building or property
which has a water service from a public water system, or the owner or operator
of a private water system which has a water service from a public water system.
      8.   Degree of Hazard. The rating of a cross connection or water service
which indicates if it has the potential to cause contamination or pollution.
      9.   Double Check Valve Backflow Prevention Assembly. A backflow
prevention device consisting of two independently acting internally loaded
check valves, four properly located test cocks, and two isolation valves.
      10.   High Hazard Cross Connection. A high hazard cross connection is a
cross connection which may cause an impairment of the quality of the potable
water by creating an actual hazard to the public health, through poisoning or
through the spread of disease by sewage, industrial fluids or waste.
      11.   Isolation. A method of backflow prevention in which a backflow
prevention assembly is located at the cross connection rather than at the water
service entrance.
      12.   Low Hazard Cross Connection. A low hazard cross connection is a
cross connection which may cause an impairment of the quality of potable water
to a degree which does adversely and unreasonably affect the aesthetic
qualities of such potable waters for domestic use.
      13.   Multiple-Family Residential Units. A multiple family residential
unit shall mean a building designed to be used as residential occupancy for
multiple-family units, each having separate plumbing facilities and not more
than two levels of occupancy.
      14.   Private Owned Customer Water System Piping. Water service line
pipes and plumbing fixtures connected to the public water system of the city of
Waterloo which are extended to the customer's property and into the customer's
building for service to the customer, regulatory control of which is defined in
the city plumbing code and Waterloo water works regulations.
      15.   Reduced Pressure Principle Backflow Prevention Assembly. A backflow
prevention device consisting of two independently acting internally loaded
check valves, a different pressure relief valve, four properly located test
cocks and two isolation valves.
      16.   Registered Backflow Prevention Assembly Tester. A person who is
registered by law to test or repair backflow prevention assemblies and report
on the condition of those assemblies.
      17.   Thermal Expansion. Volumetric increase of water due to heating
resulting in increased pressure in a closed system.
      18.   Water Service. Depending on the context, water service is the
physical connection between a public water system and a customer's building,
property or private water system, or the act of providing potable water to a
customer.
   603.1.4 Administrative Authority.
      1.   For the purpose of section 603.5.21.2 of the Waterloo Plumbing Code
only, the administrative authority shall be the Waterloo Water Works and
plumbing division of the City of Waterloo Building Inspection Department.
      2.   The administrative authority shall have the right to enter, with the
consent of the customer, or upon the basis of an administrative warrant issued
by a court of appropriate jurisdiction, any property to inspect for possible
cross connections.
      3.   The administrative authority may approve training programs for
backflow prevention assembly testers and register backflow prevention assembly
testers who successfully complete an approved training program.
      4.   The administrative authority may collect fees for the administration
of this program. Fees shall be established by resolution of the Waterloo City
Council.
   603.1.5 New Water Service.
      1.   Plans shall be submitted to the administrative authority to review
on all new water services to determine size and degree of hazard.
      2.   The administrative authority shall determine if any type of backflow
prevention assembly is required for containment based on the degree of hazard.
      3.   The administrative authority shall require, where necessary, the
installation of the appropriate backflow prevention assembly for containment
before the initiation of water service.
   603.1.6 Existing Water Services.
      1.   Upgrades of existing water services shall be treated as new water
services for the purpose of this section.
      2.   The administrative authority shall publish and make available to
each customer a copy of the standards used to determine the degree of hazard.
      3.   After publication of the standards, the administrative authority
shall notify customers whose premises are classified as single family
residential or multiple family residential, having five units or less and not
more than two levels of occupancy, of the provisions of this ordinance and
compliance therewith.
      4.   Within six (6) months after publication of the standards, customers
whose premises are not classified as single family residential shall complete
and return to the administrative authority a cross connection hazard survey to
be used to determine the type of containment device.
      5.   The administrative authority shall, on the basis of information
received from customers or gathered through on-premises investigations or
surveys, notify the customer that a method of backflow prevention is required.
The customer shall prepare a written plan for review and approval by the
administrative authority to install a device or devices for containment and/or
isolation based on the degree of hazard.
      6.   Within the time frame specified in writing by the administrative
authority, the customer shall install a backflow prevention assembly as
approved by the administrative authority.
      7.   For existing water services, the administrative authority may
inspect the premises to determine the degree of hazard. When the high hazard
cross connections are found, the administrative authority shall, at its sole
discretion:
         7.1   Develop a schedule of compliance which the customer shall
follow.
         7.2   Terminate the water service until a backflow prevention assembly
for containment required by the administrative authority has been installed.
      8.   Failure of the administrative authority to notify a customer that
they are believed to have a high hazard cross connection and that they shall
install backflow prevention assemblies for containment in no way relieves a
customer of the responsibility to comply with all requirements of this section.
   603.1.7 Customer.
      1.   The customer shall be responsible for ensuring that no cross
connections exist without approved backflow protection within his or her
premises starting at the point of service from the public potable water system.
      2.   The customer shall, at his or her own expense, cause installation,
operation, testing and maintenance of the backflow prevention assemblies
required by the administrative authority.
      3.   The customer shall ensure the administrative authority is provided
with copies of records of the installation and of all tests and repairs made to
the backflow prevention assembly on the approved form within fifteen (15) days
after testing and/or repairs are completed.
      4.   In the event of a backflow incident, the customer shall immediately
notify the local water supplier, the Waterloo Water Works.
   603.1.8 Required Backflow Prevention Assemblies For Containment - Water
Services.
      1.   An air gap or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention assembly is required for water services having one or more cross
connections which the administrative authority classifies as high hazard.
      2.   An approved double check valve assembly is required for water
services having no high hazard cross connections but having one or more cross
connections which the administrative authority has classified as low hazard.
      3.   Every water service which is required to install a backflow
prevention assembly at point of entry will be required to follow section 603.4
of the uniform plumbing code at time of installation.
      4.   Exception. Residential - single family dwelling to be done by
isolation unless specified by administrative authority.
   603.1.9 Required Backflow Prevention Assemblies For Containment - Fire
Protection Systems.
      1.   A reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly shall be
installed on all new and existing fire protection systems which the
administrative authority determines to have any of the following.
         1.1   Direct connections from public water mains with an auxiliary
water supply on or available to the premises for pumper connection.
         1.2   Interconnections with auxiliary supplies such as reservoirs,
rivers, ponds, wells, mills or other industrial water systems.
         1.3   Use of antifreezes or other additives in the fire protection
system.
         1.4   Combined industrial or domestic with high hazard and fire
protection systems supplied from the public water mains only, with or without
gravity storage or pump suction tanks.
         1.5   Any other facility, connection, or condition which may cause
contamination.
      2.   A double check valve assembly shall be required for all other fire
protection systems. The double check valve shall be required on all new systems
at the time of installation and on existing systems at the time that they are
upgraded.
      3.   Submittal of proposed backflow prevention devices to the
administrative authority does not relieve the designer or sprinkler contractor
of the responsibility of submitting plans, including backflow prevention
devices, to the fire marshal for approval.
   603.2 Registration of Backflow Prevention Assembly Tester. A backflow
prevention assembly tester registered by the state of Iowa shall include his or
her registration number on all correspondence and forms required by or
associated with this ordinance.
   603.2.1 Registered Backflow Prevention Assembly Tester Noncompliance.
      1.   The registration of a tester may be revoked or suspended, for a
period of up to two years, for noncompliance with this ordinance.
      2.   Any of the following conditions constitute noncompliance:
         2.1   Improper testing or repair or backflow prevention assemblies.
         2.2   Improper reporting of the results of testing or of repairs made
to backflow prevention assemblies.
         2.3   Failure to meet registration requirements.
         2.4   Related unethical practices.
   603.2.2 Installation of Backflow Prevention Assemblies.
      1.   Installation of backflow prevention assemblies shall be made by a
licensed and bonded plumbing contractor of the city of Waterloo with proper
permits.
      2.   The required backflow prevention assemblies for containment shall be
installed in horizontal plumbing immediately following the meter or as close to
that location as deemed practical by the administrative authority. In any case,
it shall be located upstream from any branch piping. Installation at this point
does not eliminate the responsibilities of the customer to protect the water
supply system from containment or pollution between the backflow prevention
assembly and the water main.
      3.   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall be
installed so as to be protected from flooding.
      4.   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall not
be installed in underground vaults or pits.
      5.   All backflow prevention assemblies shall be protected from freezing.
Those devices used for seasonal services may be removed in lieu of being
protected from freezing; however, the devices must be reinstalled and tested by
a registered backflow prevention assembly tester prior to service being
reactivated.
      6.   If hot water is used within the water system, thermal expansion
shall be provided for when installing a backflow prevention assembly for
containment.
      7.   Provisions shall be made to convey the discharge of water from
reduced, pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies, to a suitable
drain.
      8.   No backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed in a place
where it would create a safety hazard, such as but not limited to over an
electrical panel or above ceiling level.
      9.   If interruption of water service during testing and repair of
backflow prevention assemblies for containment is unacceptable to the customer,
another backflow prevention assembly, sized to handle the temporary water flow
need during the time of test or repair, should be installed in parallel piping.
      10.   All backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed so that they
are accessible for testing as stated in section 603.17 of the uniform plumbing
code.
      11.   All shut-off valves conform with the current edition of the Manual
Of Cross Connection Control (University Of Southern California) requirements
for either ball or resilient seat gate valves at the time of installation. Ball
valves shall be used on assemblies installed in piping two inches and smaller
and resilient seat gate valves on assemblies installed in piping larger than
two inches.
   603.2.3 Testing Of Backflow Prevention Assemblies.
      1.   Testing of backflow prevention assemblies shall be performed by a
registered backflow prevention assembly tester. The costs of tests required in
the following paragraphs 2 through 5 shall be borne by the customer.
      2.   Backflow prevention assemblies shall be tested upon installation,
and tested and inspected at least annually.
      3.   Backflow prevention assemblies which are in place, but have been out
of operation for more than three months, shall be tested before being put back
into operation. Backflow prevention assemblies used in seasonal applications
shall be tested before being put into operation each season.
      4.   Any backflow prevention assembly which fails a periodic test shall
be repaired or replaced. When water service has been terminated for
noncompliance, the backflow prevention assembly shall be repaired or replaced
prior to the resumption of water service. Backflow prevention assemblies shall
be retested by a registered backflow prevention assembly tester immediately
after repair or replacement.
      5.   The administrative authority may require backflow prevention
assemblies to be tested at any time in addition to the annual testing
requirement.
      6.   The registered backflow prevention assembly tester shall report the
successful test of a backflow prevention assembly to the customer and to the
administrative authority on the form provided by the administrative authority
within fifteen (15) days of the test.
      7.   The administrative authority may require, at its own cost,
additional tests of individual backflow prevention assemblies as it shall deem
necessary to verify test procedures and results.
   603.2.4 Repair of Backflow Prevention Assemblies.
      1.   All repairs to backflow prevention assemblies shall be performed by
registered backflow prevention assembly testers.
      2.   The registered backflow prevention assembly tester shall not change
the design, material, or operational characteristics of a backflow prevention
assembly during repair or maintenance and shall use only original manufacturer
replacements parts.
      3.   The registered backflow prevention assembly tester shall report the
repair of a backflow prevention assembly to the customer and to the
administrative authority on the form provided by the administrative authority
within fifteen (15) days of the repair. The report shall include the list of
materials or replacement parts used.
      4.   Any time fire services are discontinued for a period of time longer
than necessary to test the device the tester is required to notify the fire
marshal's office that the fire services are shut off for repairs.
   603.2.5 Customer Noncompliance. The water service may be discontinued in the
case of noncompliance with the Waterloo Plumbing Code. Noncompliance includes
but is not limited to the following:
      1.   Refusal to allow the administrative authority access to the property
to inspect for cross connections.
      2.   Removal of a backflow prevention assembly which has been required by
the administrative authority.
      3.   Bypassing of a backflow prevention assembly which has been required
by the administrative authority.
      4.   Providing inadequate backflow prevention when cross connections
exist.
      5.   Failure to install a backflow assembly which has been required by
the administrative authority.
      6.   Failure to test and/or properly repair a backflow prevention
assembly as required by the administrative authority.
Table 604.1 is hereby repealed in it's entirety and replaced with the
following:
   604.1.2 Materials for water service piping shall be of lead-free brass,
copper, ductile iron, or other materials approved by the administrative
authority. All materials used in water supply systems except valves and similar
devices shall be of like material, except when otherwise approved by
administrative authority. Copper tube, when used underground, shall have a
weight of not less than copper water tube type K.
         INSTALLATION STANDARD FOR NON-METALLIC PLASTIC WATER SERVICE PIPE - PE
& PEX
      I   All water service pipes through 2" shall be type K copper, red brass,
PE or PEX pipe.
      II   PE or PEX SDR 9 200 PSI can be used for ¾" - 2" water service
installations as follows:
         •   If PE or PEX pipe is used, it shall be installed all the way from
the stop box to meter.
         •   PE or PEX pipe shall not be used for repairs or partial
replacements. Intermixing of materials shall not be allowed.
         Type K copper is required from the tap to the stop box for all new
water services in new developments and all other instances where water service
is stubbed to the stop box. Copper can also be used from the stop box to the
meters inside the premise on any service line through 2".
      III   PE or PEX pipe shall be installed in casing or bedded with approved
backfill material. The minimum requirements for casing shall be SCH-40 or SDR-
23.5 sized to accommodate the service line and tracer wire. Backfill shall be
manufactured sand, river sand, or 1/2" pea gravel placed a minimum of 3" below
and 4" above the pipe unless approved by administrative authority.
      IV   Splicing of PE or PEX pipe between stop box and meter inside the
building is discouraged and will only be approved under special circumstances.
      V   PE or PEX pipe may not be used within 500' of a Leaking Underground
Storage Tank or in other areas where the soil may be contaminated. You can
access IDNR records.
      VI   Tracer wire shall be required when PE or PEX pipe is used. Tracer
wire shall be #12 solid single strand copper wire with 45 mil linear low-
density polyethylene insulation suitable for direct bury. Insulation shall be
blue in color. When conduit is used the tracer wire shall be placed inside the
conduit. When conduit is not used tracer wire shall be installed alongside the
pipe and shall be fastened to pipe with zip ties, a minimum of every 5 feet.
Tracer wire shall terminate above-ground and be accessible.
      VII   Joint methods for attaching PEX pipe to fittings shall meet AWWA C
904 Standards and ASTM F1960, F2080, or F1807 Specifications. Fittings shall be
installed in accordance with PE or PEX Pipe Manufactures Installation
Guidelines and related plumbing codes.
      VIII   Intermixing of approved material shall not be allowed.
   604.1.3 Joints and fittings for underground water service piping must be
lead-free compression or threaded brass. Fittings must meet A.W.W.A. (American
Water Works Association) and Waterloo Water Works standards. All fittings shall
maintain an effective grounding path from the meter to the main. Rubber
compression fittings will not be allowed.
   604.1.4 Materials for water distribution, pipes, and tubing shall be of
lead-free brass, copper, ductile iron, stainless steel, or PEX water pipe. PEX
water pipe, tubing, and fittings, manufactured to recognized standards may be
used for hot and cold water distribution systems within a building. All
materials used in the water supply system, except valves and similar devices
shall be of a like material, except where otherwise approved by the
administrative authority. Copper tube used underground shall have a weight of
not less than copper water tube type K and aboveground shall be a weight of not
less than copper water tube type L.
   604.1.5 Approved PEX water pipe may be used in water distribution piping
except where existing metallic water distribution piping is used for electrical
grounding purposes, replacement piping therefore shall be of metallic and PEX
will not be allowed.
      Exception: Where a grounding system, acceptable to the administrative
authority is installed, inspected and approved, metallic pipe may be replaced
with approved PEX pipe.
   604.1.6 PEX. Cross-linked polyethylene (PEX) tubing shall be marked with the
appropriate standard designation(s) listed in table 14-1 for which the tubing
has been listed or approved. PEX tubing shall be installed in compliance with
the provisions of this section.
   604.1.7 Licensed installers, employed by licensed plumbing contractors,
shall be appropriately certified by the manufacturer or other approved training
agency prior to commencing any PEX tubing installation.
713.4 is amended by adding the following subsection:
   713.4.1 Public Systems Available. A public water supply system and/or public
sewer system shall be deemed available to premises if such premises are within
two hundred (200) feet, measured along a street, alley, or easement, of the
public water supply or sewer system and a connection conforming to the
standards set forth in this code shall be made thereto.
Section 715 is amended by adding the following subsection:
   715.1 .1 The building sewer, beginning two (2) feet from any building or
structure, shall be schedule 40 PVC, PVC SDR 23.5, cast iron soil pipe,
vitrified clay tile, truss pipe or concrete pipe.
   715.1.2  For a new building or structure, the building sewer beginning two
(2) feet from the structure, shall be SCH 40 PVC, PVC SDR 23.5, or cast iron
soil pipe to the sewer main.
Section 717 is hereby amended by adding the following subsection:
Section 717 is hereby amended by adding the following subsection:
   717.1.1 Size Of Building Sewers. The minimum size of any building sewer
shall be determined on the basis of the total number of fixture units drained
by such sewer, in accordance with table 7-8. No building sewer shall be smaller
than the building drain. Minimum size of a building sewer is four (4) inches.
Section 906 is amended by repealing subsection 906.7 in its entirety; and by
enacting in lieu thereof a new subsection 906.7 as follows:
   906.7 Frost or Snow Closure. Where frost or snow closure is likely to occur,
vent terminals shall be minimum three inches (3") in diameter but in no case
smaller than the required pipe. The change in diameter shall be made inside the
building at least one (1) foot below the roof and terminate not less than 12
inches above roof.
Section 1007, is amended by repealing subsection 1007.1 and enacting a new
subsection 1007.1 to read as follows:
   1007.1 Trap Seal Protection. All automatic floor drain primers or trap seal
valves are prohibited.
Section 1009, is hereby repealed in its entirety and a new section 1009 is
hereby enacted in lieu thereof as follows:
   1009 Industrial Interceptors (Clarifiers) and Separators.
   1009.1 Drainage from commercial garages, gasoline filling stations, dry
cleaning establishments, oil extraction plants, and other industries where oils
or solvents are used, is likely to contain inflammable compound, which shall
therefore be intercepted before discharging into the city sewer. The
interceptor shall have a capacity sufficient to separate the oil, grease, or
other inflammable compound and shall be so located and constructed to prevent
fire or explosion. Drainage from commercial garages and oil stations where
automobile wash racks are installed is also likely to contain mud and sand,
which shall be separated from the wastes before discharging into the city
sanitary sewer. Hence, the interceptor for these wastes shall afford sufficient
capacity for both separating the oils and grease by flotation and the sand and
mud by settling.
   1009.2 For drainage from commercial garages or other places where wastes are
likely to contain sand, mud, or other solid material in addition to oil,
grease, or other inflammable compounds, a minimum capacity of 50 cubic feet,
with a minimum effective depth of 3 feet, shall be provided and a vent and
manhole with tightly fitting cover shall be installed.
   1009.3 All interceptors shall be cleaned periodically.
   1009.4 Subsections 1009.1 through 1009.5 of this section shall apply except
for manufactured or prefabricated concrete interceptors that comply with
approved applicable standards. See "Exhibit A. Commercial Mud Trap" 39.
   1009.5 For details, see diagram marked "Exhibit B. Mud Trap Or Inflammable
Waste Interceptors" 1.
Subsection 1017.3 is hereby repealed in it's entirety and a new subsection
1017.3 is hereby enacted as follows:
   1017.3 Residential Garage Interceptor. If a drain is installed in a
residential garage, an interceptor shall be required. See "Exhibit D.
Residential Garage Interceptor".
(Ord. 5392, 3-20-2017; amd. Ord. 5673, 11-21-2022; Ord. 5748, 2-5-2024)
9-4A-3: EXHIBITS:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4f1c226a31a8651fdfc6ebe36d258a9ea94e4344/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2519.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4f1c226a31a8651fdfc6ebe36d258a9ea94e4344/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2521.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4f1c226a31a8651fdfc6ebe36d258a9ea94e4344/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2523.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4f1c226a31a8651fdfc6ebe36d258a9ea94e4344/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2525.png]
(Ord. 5673, 11-21-2022)
ARTICLE B. PLUMBING BOARD FOR LICENSING AND APPEALS
SECTION:
9-4B-1: Board Established; Composition
9-4B-2: Appointment; Terms
9-4B-3: Quorum
9-4B-4: Duties
9-4B-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION:
   A.   Establishment Of Board: There is hereby established a plumbing board
for appeals hereinafter referred to as the board, with authority and
responsibility as follows:
      1.   To act as a board of appeals as provided in the Waterloo plumbing
code.
      2.   To periodically review the provisions of the Waterloo plumbing code
and make recommendations to the city council for improving and updating said
document.
   B.   Composition Of Board: The board shall consist of five (5) members, all
of whose place of business, residence, or work is located in the city. All
members shall be qualified by experience and training to pass judgment upon
matters pertaining to the installation of plumbing. The membership shall be as
follows: two (2) licensed master plumbers, one licensed journeyman plumber, one
registered professional mechanical engineer, and one member at large, with no
one company or interest being represented by more than one member of the board.
The city plumbing inspector or their designee shall act as secretary to the
board. (Ord. 5392, 3-20-2017; amd. Ord. 5673, 11-21-2022)
9-4B-2: APPOINTMENT; TERMS:
   A.   Appointment: The mayor with the approval of the city council shall
appoint the members of the plumbing board for licensing and appeals.
   B.   Terms: After the initial appointment of the board, the terms of the
members shall be for three (3) years except that the initial terms shall be so
arranged and staggered that the terms of no more than two (2) members shall
expire on December 31 of any one year. A vacancy within any term shall be
filled by appointment of the mayor with the approval of the city council for
the unexpired portion of that term only. Each member can serve a total of two
(2) three (3) year terms.
   C.   Compensation: The members of the board shall serve without
compensation.
   D.   Organization: The board shall designate a member as chair and shall
adopt reasonable rules for conducting its investigations and proceedings, and
shall render all decisions and findings in writing to the building official
with a duplicate copy to the appellant and may recommend to the city council
new legislation as is consistent therewith. (Ord. 5392, 3-20-2017; amd. Ord.
5673, 11-21-2022)
9-4B-3: QUORUM:
Three (3) members of the board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business, provided that a decision on a matter relating to a specific license
shall not be valid unless decided in the presence of a board member who holds a
similar valid license. Any vote taken for the purpose of suspending or revoking
a contractor's license shall require a majority vote of all members of the
board. (Ord. 5392, 3-20-2017; amd. Ord. 5673, 11-21-2022)
9-4B-4: DUTIES:
The plumbing board for appeals shall receive applications for appeals based on
a claim that the true intent of this code has been incorrectly interpreted, the
provisions of the code do not fully apply, or an equally good or better form of
compliance with the code is proposed. The board shall have no authority to
waive requirements of this code. The plumbing board for licensing and appeals
shall also act as the Black Hawk County Plumbing Board for appeals, as
permitted by Black Hawk County Ordinance 46, the Black Hawk County Plumbing
Code. (Ord. 5392, 3-20-2017; amd. Ord. 5673, 11-21-2022)
ARTICLE C. PLUMBING CONTRACTORS
SECTION:
9-4C-1: Classification Of Plumbers
9-4C-2: Pipe Layer Business (Contractor's) License
9-4C-3: Pipe Layer's Certificate Of Insurance
9-4C-4: Conditions Of License
9-4C-5: Persons Authorized And Reporting
9-4C-6: Revocation Of Licenses
9-4C-1: CLASSIFICATION OF PLUMBERS:
   A.   Pipe Layer:
      1.   Definition: "Pipe layer" shall mean a person who installs, lays,
repairs, removes or caps off sanitary sewer pipe between the public sanitary
sewer main in the street or easement and a point two feet (2') outside the
foundation wall of a building or structure.
      2.   Qualifications: A pipe layer shall be qualified in the principles of
the hydraulics of liquids in sewer pipes and related matters and shall be
familiar with the pertinent provisions of the Waterloo plumbing code and the
rules and regulations of the local and state boards of health as such
provisions, rules and regulations pertain to sewers and sewer service pipes.
      3.   Licensing: Any person desiring to be licensed as a pipe layer shall
make application to the building department on forms furnished by said
department accompanied by a fee. Upon receipt of the application and fee, the
building department shall schedule the administration of a test prescribed by
the plumbing board. If the applicant obtains a passing score he shall be issued
a pipe layer's license upon the payment of an additional fee of fifty dollars
($50.00) the first year. The renewal fee will be twenty five dollars ($25.00)
per year.
      4.   Authorized Work: A pipe layer's license shall not be construed as
license or permit to do plumbing work as a state licensed plumber in the city
as defined in this chapter. Except for the installation, laying, removing,
repairing or capping off of sewer between public main and a point two feet (2')
outside building, every pipe layer shall be hereby prohibited from doing any
plumbing work within the city unless he is licensed as a plumber by the state
in conformance with the provisions of the Waterloo plumbing code, as amended.
      5.   Pipe Laying: No person shall engage in the construction,
reconstruction, laying, alteration, repair, removal or capping off of a
sanitary sewer between public main and a point two feet (2') outside building
in the city without first having obtained a state plumber's license or a
Waterloo pipe layer's license, along with an approved certificate of insurance
on file with the city and having obtained a plumbing permit for sewer
installation from the building department as required by this chapter. (Ord.
5392, 3-20-2017; amd. Ord. 5673, 11-21-2022)
9-4C-2: PIPE LAYER BUSINESS (CONTRACTOR'S) LICENSE:
Applicants who have met the requirements of the board and upon payment of a fee
of two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the first year and having in place a
certificate of insurance as herein provided for, issue to such applicant a pipe
layer business (contractor's) license in the name of the city of Waterloo, by
the plumbing inspector. Renewal license fee will be one hundred dollars
($100.00) per year.
It shall be unlawful for any person to install, erect, alter, repair, service,
reset, replace thereto, as defined in the plumbing code, unless said person or
some member of such firm or corporation shall first have obtained a state
plumbing contractor license or pipe layer business (contractor's) license or
unless such person, firm or corporation has regularly and steadily in his
employ a holder of such a license, who shall be the authorized representative
of the person, firm or corporation in all matters pertaining to this chapter.
The authorized representative who is the holder of a state plumbing contractor
license or pipe layer business (contractor's) license may not apply for permits
for more than one person, firm, or corporation and the permit shall apply only
to the type of work pertaining to the specific license possessed by the license
holder. (Ord. 5392, 3-20-2017; amd. Ord. 5673, 11-21-2022)
9-4C-3: PIPE LAYER'S CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE:
A pipe layer's application shall be filed with the building official (or a
specified intergovernmental agency if so designated by the building official)
accompanied by a certificate of insurance written by a company authorized to
transact business in the state, in limits of not less than three hundred
thousand dollars ($300,000.00) combined single limit to any person and one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) property damage; said certificate to be
written on a standard form and carrying an endorsement naming the city and its
employees (or the intergovernmental agency designated by the building official)
as additional insureds as its interest may appear and conditioned upon the
faithful performance of all duties required of such contractor by any
ordinances, rules and regulations of the city. It shall be a further condition
of said certificate of insurance that the obligator will hold the city (through
the specified intergovernmental agency if so designated) harmless from any and
all damages sustained by reason of neglect or incompetency on the part of such
contractor, his agents or employees in the performance of the work done under a
license or permit issued upon the filing of said certificate.
Said certificate of insurance shall be issued by December 31 of each year, and
shall be filed on or before said date for each subsequent year and shall be in
continuous full force and effect. That it is the intent and purpose of said
certificate of insurance to also bind the individual, company, firm,
association or partnership, whether it be a trade name, corporation, or other
business association or arrangement with which the principal is associated.
Homeowners working on their principal residence shall be exempt from filing
said certificate. (Ord. 5392, 3-20-2017; amd. Ord. 5673, 11-21-2022)
9-4C-4: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
Any license not renewed prior to December 31 shall expire thirty (30) calendar
days thereafter, and shall be renewed upon payment of a double fee. (Ord. 5392,
3-20-2017; amd. Ord. 5673, 11-21-2022)
9-4C-5: PERSONS AUTHORIZED AND REPORTING:
   A.   Must Be Licensed: No person other than those holding a state plumbing
contractor license or pipe layer's license issued by the city of Waterloo,
shall not tap any water or sewer mains, nor install any private building sewer,
water service, private sewage disposal plant or private water system; nor shall
they make any connections, extension, replacement, removals or additions of any
nature to the sanitary plumbing or water supply system or disconnect any
fixture or change the sanitary or water pipe arrangement.
   B.   Exceptions: Those persons who perform the function of water softener
installers only, and who do not perform any other plumbing work, may install
water softeners only; provided, that said person obtains the proper permits,
prior to any work performed, has in place insurance as by this chapter
provided, requests and has inspected by the plumbing inspector any
installations, and pays any and all inspection fees. (Ord. 5392, 3-20-2017;
amd. Ord. 5673, 11-21-2022)
9-4C-6: REVOCATION OF LICENSES:
A pipe layer's license or a state plumbing contractor license may be revoked
for cause by the board, after a hearing by said board, upon a written notice
served upon the person in whose name said license is issued, not less than ten
(10) days prior to the date of hearing, stating the time and place thereof and
the grounds for such hearing. (Ord. 5392, 3-20-2017; amd. Ord. 5673, 11-21-
2022)
CHAPTER 5
MECHANICAL SYSTEMS
SECTION:
9-5-1: Title
9-5-2: Application And Scope
9-5-3: Mechanical Inspector
9-5-4: Defective Work; Unsanitary Conditions
9-5-5: Maintenance; Change Of Occupancy
9-5-6: Application For Permit
9-5-7: Installation By Owner
9-5-8: Notification For Inspection
9-5-9: Applicability
9-5-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the WATERLOO MECHANICAL CODE and may be so cited
and may be referred to hereinafter as "the code" or "this code". (Ord. 5664, 9-
19-2022)
9-5-2: APPLICATION AND SCOPE:
The provisions of this chapter shall include and apply to all mechanical and
fuel gas systems, appliances and equipment regulated by the adopted mechanical
and fuel gas codes hereinafter installed, constructed, altered, serviced or
repaired in, for, or about any new, remodeled or relocated building or
structure in the city. (Ord. 5664, 9-19-2022)
9-5-3: MECHANICAL INSPECTOR:
   A.   Appointment: The applicant for mechanical inspector shall fulfill all
applicable civil service requirements for the position of mechanical inspector.
The building official will appoint the new mechanical inspector. The
appointment shall go to the mayor and city council for approval. The mechanical
inspector shall work under the direction of the building official.
   B.   Qualifications: The appointee shall have had at least four (4) years of
practical experience in the design, planning, supervision and contracting for
installation of heating, air conditioning and ventilation systems. Two (2)
years of experience may be substituted for four (4) years of schooling if the
study is in engineering or a related field. Schooling shall be from a
recognized school of continuing education; possession of a valid driver's
license; shall possess the ability and aptitude for the performance of required
duties and shall have thorough knowledge of the standard materials and methods
used in the installation and maintenance of heating, air conditioning and
ventilation equipment; shall be versed in methods of construction for safety to
persons and property, the statutes of the state relating to air quality and air
pollution control and any orders, rules and regulations issued by authority
thereof, and in the uniform mechanical code.
   C.   Restrictions: It shall be unlawful for the mechanical inspector to
engage in the business of the sales, installation, or maintenance of heating,
air conditioning and ventilation equipment, either directly or indirectly, and
the inspector shall have no financial interest in any concern engaged in such
business in the city at any time while holding the position as mechanical
inspector for the city.
   D.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   The mechanical inspector is empowered to inspect any and all
buildings or structures, public or private, and to, as herein provided, order
removed or remodeled and put into proper and safe condition all heating, air
conditioning, and ventilation equipment and related systems for the protection
of the public health, safety and welfare.
      2.   The mechanical inspector shall have authority to enforce this
chapter and may bring before the mechanical board proposals for modifications
or alternate materials, methods, and equipment to determine compliance with the
intent of this chapter; provided, that the individual or entity affected
provides satisfactory documentation to the board.
      3.   The building official shall be the executive official and
administrative authority for the administration of the mechanical code of the
city.
   E.   Right Of Entry: Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any
of the provisions of this chapter, or whenever the mechanical inspector has
reasonable cause to believe that there exists, in any building or upon any
premises, any HVAC condition which makes such building or premises unsafe, the
mechanical inspector may enter such building or premises at all reasonable
times to inspect the same or to perform any duty imposed upon by this chapter;
provided, that if such building or premises be occupied, they shall first
present proper credentials and request entry; and if such building or premises
is unoccupied, they shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or
other persons having charge or control of the building or premises and request
entry. If such entry is refused, the mechanical inspector or authorized
representative shall have recourse to every remedy by law to secure entry.
(Ord. 5664, 9-19-2022)
9-5-4: DEFECTIVE WORK; UNSANITARY CONDITIONS:
Whenever it shall come to the knowledge of the mechanical inspector that the
mechanical or fuel gas system, appliance or equipment governed by this code in
a building or structure is defective or otherwise becomes a hazard to health or
life, it shall be the duty of said inspector to make an inspection of such
system, appliance or equipment and render a report to the proper party, setting
forth the necessary repairs or alterations required to make such heating, air
conditioning or ventilation system conform to this chapter. The inspector shall
set a limit of time within which such repairs or alterations are to be made,
and upon the refusal or neglect of the owner, agent, lessee, or tenant to
comply with said notice within the time stated, the mechanical inspector shall
cause such repairs or alterations to be made or such nuisance abated and the
expense of such work shall be taxed against such property and become a prior
lien thereon and as a personal judgment against the property owner; or the
inspector may order the premises vacated and closed to further occupancy until
such time as the required repairs or alterations have been made, all at the
mechanical inspector's sole discretion based upon health or life safety
concerns. (Ord. 5664, 9-19-2022)
9-5-5: MAINTENANCE; CHANGE OF OCCUPANCY:
When a single-family structure is changed to multi-family occupancy, the
following shall specifically apply in addition to any requirements identified
in the mechanical code:
   A.   Each unit shall be provided a heating unit that will maintain room
temperature in accordance with the housing code of the city.
   B.   Transfer of conditioned air between units is prohibited. (Ord. 5664, 9-
19-2022)
9-5-6: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Permit To Do Work Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to
construct or install any fuel burning, space heating, air conditioning or
incinerator equipment or appurtenances subject to and covered by the provisions
of this chapter in or for any building or to alter, repair or convert any such
existing fuel burning, space heating, air conditioning or incinerator equipment
or appurtenances as are subject to the provisions of this chapter without first
making written application for a permit therefor setting forth the nature and
extent of the work to be performed. (Ord. 5664, 9-19-2022)
9-5-7: INSTALLATION BY OWNER:
In cases where the owner/occupant desires to do heating, air conditioning and
ventilation work in the owner's own residence, the owner shall appear before
the mechanical inspector and show competency in the installations of heating,
air conditioning and ventilation systems. Upon such showing of competency and
approval and payment of required fees, a mechanical permit shall be issued.
Said permit authorizes owner to do heating, air conditioning and ventilation
work only in the dwelling owned and occupied by said owner without licensing,
certificate of insurance or help from other than family members. Said person
performs all labor in connection therewith, has the necessary inspections made
and complies with code requirements. (Ord. 5664, 9-19-2022)
9-5-8: NOTIFICATION FOR INSPECTION:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the permit holder to notify the inspector that
the work is ready for inspection or test. All inspections require twenty four
(24) hours' notice.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the permit holder to make sure the work will
stand the test prescribed before giving notification.
   C.   If the inspector finds that the work will not stand a required test, or
corrections are required, the journeyman HVAC shall be required to notify the
inspector when the necessary corrections are complete for re-inspection. If the
journeyman HVAC calls for a re-inspection where corrections were required and
the corrections were not made, a re-inspection fee will be assessed to the
contractor. The re-inspection fee shall be paid before additional inspections
are made.
   D.   If the inspector fails to appear within twenty four (24) hours, during
normal working hours, of the time set for each inspection or test, the
inspection or test shall be deemed to have been made, but the journeyman HVAC
doing the work shall be required to file an affidavit with the mechanical
inspector that the work was installed with the ordinance and permit, and that
it was free from defects and that the required test had been made and the
system was found free from leaks. (Ord. 5664, 9-19-2022)
9-5-9: APPLICABILITY:
If an existing building is damaged by fire or otherwise or altered in a manner
to require the replacement of fifty percent (50%) or more of the structure as
determined by the authority having jurisdiction, the entire building shall
conform to this chapter's requirements for new buildings. (Ord. 5664, 9-19-
2022)
ARTICLE A. MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
9-5A-1: Mechanical Code Adopted
9-5A-2: Amendments
9-5A-1: MECHANICAL CODE ADOPTED:
The International Mechanical Code and International Fuel Gas Code are adopted
by this reference except as added to, deleted, modified or amended otherwise
herein, and there is adopted as the mechanical code of the city, that certain
mechanical code known as the International Mechanical Code, 2021 edition, and
International Fuel Gas Code, 2021 edition, as prepared by the International
Code Council (ICC). (Ord. 5664, 9-19-2022)
9-5A-2: AMENDMENTS:
Where this chapter uses the phrase heating, air conditioning, and ventilation;
fuel gas and mechanical systems appliances, and equipment shall be understood
to be included.
The following sections of the 2021 International Mechanical Code (ICC) and 2021
International Fuel Gas Code (ICC) are amended as follows:
   Section 101.1 Insert: city of Waterloo.
   Section 101.2 Delete: Exception.
   Sections 103.1, 103.2, and 103.3 Delete in their entirety.
   Section 106.2 of the 2021 international mechanical code Add: item #9,
electric baseboard heating system.
   Section 106.5.2 of the 2021 international mechanical code and section
106.6.2 of the 2021 international fuel gas code are hereby amended to read:
      Permit Fees. All mechanical permit fees shall be established by
resolution of the city council and paid prior to issuance of a permit or re-
inspection.
   Section 106.5.3 of the 2015 international mechanical code and section
106.6.3 of the 2021 international fuel gas code are hereby amended as follows:
      Fee Refunds: #2. Not more than 80 percent of the permit fee paid when no
work has been done under a permit issued in accordance with this code.
      #3 Deleted.
   Section 108.4 of the 2021 international mechanical code and 2021
international fuel gas code are deleted and replaced with the following:
      108.4 Municipal Infraction.
      108.4.1 Any person, firm or corporation failing to comply with or
violating any of the terms or provisions of this ordinance shall be deemed
guilty of a municipal infraction and upon conviction thereof, be punished
accordingly.
      108.4.2 If any mechanical work, including construction or repair, is
performed within the city contrary to the provisions of this ordinance, it
shall be deemed a municipal infraction and in addition to penalties described,
shall be corrected in accordance with this ordinance.
      108.4.3 The omission or failure to perform any act or duty required by
this ordinance or the performing of any act which is prohibited or declared to
be unlawful by this ordinance, an offense or a municipal infraction pursuant to
this ordinance or the international mechanical code and/or international fuel
gas code is punishable by a fine of up to two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the
first offense and up to four hundred dollars ($400.00) for each subsequent
offense.
   Delete section 108.4 of the 2021 international mechanical code and 2021
international fuel gas code.
   Delete sections 109.2, 109.3, 109.4, 109.5, 109.6 and 109.7 of the 2021
international mechanical code and 2021 international fuel gas code.
   Amend section 507.2.2 of the 2021 international mechanical code by deleting
the following wording "into the HVAC system design or".
   Add sections 507.2.3.1 and 507.2.3.2 to the 2021 international mechanical
code.
      Section 507.2.3.1 Cooking appliances used in commercial-type occupancies
such as places of worship, fellowship halls, lodge halls, employee kitchens,
and classrooms may need to be provided with a hood based on the type of
appliances and processes in accordance with sections 507.2, and 507.2.1. Light-
duty appliances that produce heat or moisture and do not produce grease or
smoke may need to be provided with a hood in accordance with sections 505.1,
501.1 exception 1, and 505.2. At the discretion of the building official or
designee, in all applications, portable fire extinguishing equipment shall be
provided as directed by the fire marshal.
         Exception: If a type 1 hood with a fire suppression system is not
needed or installed, a permanent etched sign with background contrasting
letters at least 2 inches in height shall be installed in plain sight on or
near the hood stating "NO FRYING, GRILLING, SAUTEING OR GREASE ALLOWED".
            1.   Complete and submit a use agreement form available at the
building department.
            2.   The equipment is limited to a maximum of two domestic light-
duty appliances in any one location.
            3.   Complete hood coverage of the cook area is provided and hood
is ducted in compliance with the mechanical code requirements for type II
hoods.
            4.   Cooking practices are limited to tenants of the building.
            5.   Frying, sauteing, grilling or other grease producing
activities that produces more than minimal amounts of grease or grease vapor
are prohibited.
            6.   Portable fire extinguishing equipment shall be provided as
directed by the city.
            7.   A permanent etched sign shall be installed in plain sight on
the hood stating "ONLY MINIMAL FRYING, GRILLING, OR SAUTEING ALLOWED".
            8.   Where the cooking equipment is to be used as training
equipment, it shall not be used by students without direct supervision of an
instructor.
            9.   The approved use is tenant based. If the tenant changes, the
occupancy changes, or the type of cooking changes, approval of the alternative
hood is voided.
            10.   City inspectors shall have the authority to immediately void
the approval if any of the above conditions are found to be in violation.
   Amend chapter 6 of the international mechanical code, 601.5.
      Exception #5 will not apply to existing unaltered structures. All new
single family or existing single family converted to multi-family living will
not be exempt.
   The following is added to section 402.6 of the 2015 international fuel gas
code:
      #7 Maximum gas delivery pressure into a dwelling shall not exceed 14"
water column ("w.c.").
   Sections 403.4.3, 403.4.4, 403.5, 403.5.2, 403.5.3 of the 2015 international
fuel gas code are hereby deleted and replaced with the following:
      403.4.3 Pipe used for the installation, extension, alteration or repair
of gas piping shall be standard weight wrought iron or steel (galvanized or
black). Corrugated stainless steel tubing (C.S.S.T.) may be permitted for
residential use only.
   The following section is added to the 2021 international fuel gas code:
      403.5.5 Inspection Procedure For C.S.S.T.
      (a)   An air pressure test of a minimum ten (10) pounds for a minimum of
fifteen (15) minutes must be performed after the piping is installed in rough
construction. (Before cover of interior walls and ceiling are finished.)
      (b)   Another air test of the same requirement must also be performed
after the cover of walls and ceiling are complete. Both of which tests must be
witnessed by the mechanical inspector. At no time before this, will gas service
be released to the building.
      (c)   After final pressure test, piping can be connected to the gas
service, a gas shut off will be required before each connection is made into
existing pipe, and C.S.S.T. must terminate at ceiling or floor joist and hard
piped with a shut off to each appliance.
   Section 403.10.4 of the 2021 international fuel gas code is hereby deleted
and replaced with the following:
      Gas piping larger than 2" (50.8 mm) in size regardless of gas pressure
and any size gas pipe carrying 1 pound p.s.i. or more gas pressure shall be
welded black pipe with welding performed by a certified welder and pressure
tested to a minimum 50 pounds p.s.i. for no less than one (1) hour.
      In lieu of the NEC, HVAC air handling equipment with a blower motor or
electric elements in a duct needs to be provided with disconnect means within
reach of the unit.
(Ord. 5664, 9-19-2022)
ARTICLE B. MECHANICAL BOARD FOR LICENSING AND APPEALS
SECTION:
9-5B-1: Board Established; Composition
9-5B-2: Appointment, Terms
9-5B-3: Quorum
9-5B-4: Powers And Duties
9-5B-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION:
   A.   Board Established: There is hereby established a mechanical board for
licensing and appeals, hereinafter referred to as the board, with authority and
responsibility as follows:
      1.   To act as a board of appeals as provided in the heating, air
conditioning and ventilation code.
      2.   To periodically review the provisions of the heating, air
conditioning and ventilation code and recommend to the building official for
improving and updating said ordinance.
   B.   Composition Of Board: The board shall consist of five (5) members, all
of whose place of business or residence is located in the city. All members
shall be qualified by experience and training to pass judgment upon matters
pertaining to the installation of heating, air conditioning, and ventilation
systems. The membership shall be as follows: three (3) certificate of
competency holders, and two (2) members at large, with no one company or
interest being represented by more than one member of the board. The city
mechanical inspector or building official's designee shall act as secretary to
the board. (Ord. 5664, 9-19-2022)
9-5B-2: APPOINTMENT, TERMS:
   A.   Appointment Of Members: The members of the mechanical board for
licensing and appeals shall be appointed by the mayor with the approval of the
city council.
   B.   Terms: After the initial appointment of the board, the terms of the
members shall be for three (3) years except that the initial terms shall be so
arranged and staggered that the terms of no more than two (2) members shall
expire on December 31 of any one year. A vacancy within any term shall be
filled by appointment of the mayor with the approval of the city council for
the unexpired portion of that term only.
   C.   Compensation: The members of the board shall serve without
compensation.
   D.   Organization: The board shall designate a member as chair and vice
chair and shall adopt reasonable rules for conducting its investigations and
proceedings, and shall render all decisions and findings in writing to the
building official with a duplicate copy to the appellant and may recommend to
the city council new legislation as is consistent therewith. (Ord. 5664, 9-19-
2022)
9-5B-3: QUORUM:
Three (3) members of the board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business, provided that a decision on a matter relating to a specific license
shall not be valid unless decided in the presence of a board member who holds a
similar valid license. Any vote taken for the purpose of suspending or revoking
a contractor's license shall require a majority vote of all members of the
board. (Ord. 5664, 9-19-2022)
9-5B-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The mechanical board for licensing and appeals shall have the following powers
and duties:
   A.   To hold regular meetings when determined necessary for the purpose of
conducting examinations of applicants for mechanical certificates of competency
or heating, air conditioning and ventilation appeals.
   B.   To act upon reports of violations by licensed contractors as filed by
the mechanical inspector with the board.
   C.   To prescribe rules consistent with the provisions of this chapter for
hearings before the board to suspend, revoke, or reinstate licenses.
   D.   To keep a complete record of the official proceedings of the board; to
preserve all documents, books, and papers relating to appeals, examinations for
licenses, and hearings of complaints and charges for at least three (3) years.
   E.   To hear appeals from the decision of the mechanical inspector and to
rule on interpretations of the provisions of the heating, air conditioning and
ventilation code. (Ord. 5664, 9-19-2022)
ARTICLE C. MECHANICAL CONTRACTORS
SECTION:
9-5C-1: License Required
9-5C-2: Conditions Of License
9-5C-3: Revocation Of License
9-5C-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   License: No person other than those holding a current state mechanical
contractor license, in addition to their state master HVAC license shall be
allowed to work at the trade of heating, air conditioning, and ventilation in
the city of Waterloo.
   B.   Unlawful To Lend License: It shall be unlawful for any person to lend
that person's license, or to borrow the license of another person, nor shall
any person offer to assume the responsibility of another person's work, when
such person's work would require that person to be licensed under the
provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Exemption: Homeowners working on their principal residence shall be
exempt from state licensing. (Ord. 5664, 9-19-2022)
9-5C-2: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Advertising Without License: No person shall advertise in any way that
they possess the qualifications to engage in or carry on the heating, air
conditioning and ventilation trade or business in the city unless they are a
bona fide holder of a valid contractor's license as provided in section
9-5C-1  of this article.
9-5C-3: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Appointment Of Members: The members of the mechanical board for
licensing and appeals shall be appointed by the mayor with the approval of the
city council.
   B.   Terms: After the initial appointment of the board, the terms of the
members shall be for three (3) years except that the initial terms shall be so
arranged and staggered that the terms of no more than two (2) members shall
expire on December 31 of any one year. A vacancy within any term shall be
filled by appointment of the mayor with the approval of the city council for
the unexpired portion of that term only.
   C.   Compensation: The members of the board shall serve without
compensation.
   D.   Organization: The board shall designate a member as chair and vice
chair and shall adopt reasonable rules for conducting its investigations and
proceedings, and shall render all decisions and findings in writing to the
building official with a duplicate copy to the appellant and may recommend to
the city council new legislation as is consistent therewith. (Ord. 5664, 9-19-
2022)
CHAPTER 6
SIGNS
SECTION:
9-6-1: Scope
9-6-2: Definitions
9-6-3: Sign Contractors
9-6-4: Maintenance Required
9-6-5: Inspections
9-6-6: Obstructions; Traffic Hazards
9-6-7: Display On Parkings
9-6-8: Truth In Advertising
9-6-9: Off-Premises Advertising
9-6-10: Enforcement And Penalties
9-6-1: SCOPE:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to provide standards to safeguard life,
health, property and public welfare by regulating and controlling the design,
quality of materials, construction, location, electrification and maintenance
of all signs and sign structures not located within a building.
   B.   The regulations of this chapter are not intended to permit any
violation of the provisions of this code or of any other lawful city or state
ordinance. (Ord. 2447, 1-22-1968; amd. Ord. 3325, 2-13-1984)
9-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed
to them:
APPROVED PLASTICS: Only those slow-burning plastics such as cellulose acetate
or methyl methacrylate or other plastics of no greater combustibility, as now
approved by the Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc., for sign use.
BUILDING CODE: The building code of the city, as adopted in chapter 1 of this
title.
BUS STOP BENCH: The structure permitted to be located on public property,
bearing advertising and used for public seating purposes, in accordance and
controlled by title 7, chapter 2, article B of this code.
COMBINATION SIGN: Any sign incorporating any combination of the features of
ground, projecting and roof signs.
CURB LINE: The line at the face of the curb nearest to the street or roadway.
In the absence of a curb, the curb line shall be established by the city
engineer.
DISPLAY SURFACE: The area made available by the sign structure for the purpose
of displaying the advertising message.
ELECTRIC SIGN: Any sign containing electrical wiring, but not including signs
illuminated by an exterior nonconnected light source.
GROUND SIGN: Any sign which is supported by one or more uprights, poles or
braces in or upon the ground, other than a combination sign or pole sign.
MARQUEE: A permanent roofed structure attached to and supported by the building
and projecting over public property.
NONCOMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL: Any material which will not ignite at, or below, a
temperature of one thousand two hundred degrees Fahrenheit (1,200°F) during an
exposure of five (5) minutes, and which will not continue to burn or glow at
that temperature, as specified in the building code.
NONSTRUCTURAL TRIM: The molding, battens, caps, nailing strips, latticing,
cutouts or letters and walkways which are attached to the sign structure.
POLE SIGN: Any sign supported wholly by a pole or poles in the ground which are
not a part of a building.
PORTABLE SIGN: Any sign consisting of solid materials, whether on a frame,
chassis, or wheels, which can be moved from one location to another.
PROJECTING SIGN: Any sign, other than a wall sign, which projects from and is
supported by a wall of a building or structure.
PROJECTION: The distance by which a sign extends over public property or beyond
the building line.
ROOF SIGN: Any sign attached to roof framing, walls or columns of the building
on which the entire advertising display is above the roof level.
SIGN: Any medium, which is used or intended to be used to attract attention to
the subject matter for information or advertising purposes.
SIGN STRUCTURE: The supports, uprights, braces and framework of the sign.
TEMPORARY SIGN: Any sign, banner, pennant, valance or advertising display
constructed of cloth, canvas, light fabric, cardboard or other like materials,
without frames, intended to be displayed for a limited period of time only.
WALL SIGN: Any sign attached to or erected against the wall of a building or
structure, with the exposed face of the sign in a plane parallel to the plane
of the wall. (Ord. 2447, 1-22-1968; amd. Ord. 3325, 2-13-1984; Ord. 3410, 10-
21-1985)
9-6-3: SIGN CONTRACTORS:
   A.   Sign Painting Or Posting On Existing Buildings Or Billboards: Any
person desiring to engage in the act of drawing, painting or posting a sign on
any existing building or billboard or signboard surface as covered by this
chapter, shall first apply to the city council for a license to do so. Said
license shall be in the amount of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per year, except
as in subsection B of this section, payable annually on January 1 of each year.
The license provided for in this subsection shall be limited to the drawing or
painting or posting of signs only.
   B.   Painting, Erecting And Installing Signs:
      1.   Any person desiring to engage in the act of painting, erecting,
maintaining, repairing, servicing, installing or removing signs, portable
signs, billboards or signboards, as covered by this chapter, regardless of size
or weight, shall first apply to the city council on an approved application
form supplied by the city for a license to do so. The fee for such license is
in the amount of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for the first year;
thereafter the license shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) per year for each year
of subsequent renewal. The license provided for in this subsection shall also
apply to the drawing or painting of signs and is in lieu of the license in
subsection A of this section.
      2.   The applicant, at the time of applying for license required by this
subsection, shall execute and file with the building official (or a specified
intergovernmental agency if so designated by the building official) a
certificate of insurance written by a company authorized to transact business
in the state, in limits of not less than three hundred thousand dollars
($300,000.00) combined single limit to any person and one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000.00) property damage; said certificate to be written on a
standard form and carrying an endorsement naming the city and its employees (or
the intergovernmental agency designated by the building official) as additional
insureds as its interest may appear and conditioned upon the faithful
performance of all duties required of such contractor by any ordinances, rules
and regulations of the city. It shall be a further condition of said
certificate of insurance that the obligator will hold the city (through the
specified intergovernmental agency if so designated) harmless from any and all
damages sustained by reason of neglect or incompetency on the part of such
contractor, his agents or employees in the performance of the work done under a
license or permit issued upon the filing of said certificate.
Said certificate of insurance shall be issued by December 31 of each year, and
shall be refiled on or before said date for each subsequent year and shall be
in continuous full force and effect. It is the intent and purpose of this
certificate of insurance to also bind the individual, company, firm,
association or partnership, whether it be trade name, corporation or other
business association or arrangement with which the principal is associated.
Homeowners working on their principal residence shall be exempt from filing
this certificate.
   C.   Exceptions To License: The licenses required by subsections A and B of
this section shall not be required for the following:
      1.   A sign painted on a building by an owner or lessee on their own
property.
      2.   The installation of a ground sign not exceeding nine (9) square feet
in area, advertising the sale or rental of a lot or parcel of property, or job
sign, such sign to be located on the premises so advertised.
   D.   Effective Date Of Fees, Bonds: Any changes contained herein regarding
license fees or bonds of sign contractors shall become effective when such fees
or bonds next become due, or when new licenses or bonds are required after the
effective date hereof. (Ord. 2447, 1-22-1968; amd. Ord. 2521, 3-16-1970; Ord.
3020, 4-9-1979; Ord. 3325, 2-13-1984; Ord. 3587, 10-10-1988; Ord. 4065, 1-3-
1995; Ord. 4087, 4-3-1995)
9-6-4: MAINTENANCE REQUIRED:
All signs, together with all of their supports, braces, guys and anchors, shall
be kept in repair and in proper state of preservation and working order. The
display surfaces of all signs shall be kept neatly painted or posted at all
times. The building official may order the removal of any sign that is not
maintained in accordance with this section. (Ord. 2447, 1-22-1968; amd. Ord.
2521, 3-16-1970)
9-6-5: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Inspections Required:
      1.   All signs for which a permit is required by this chapter shall be
subject to inspection and reinspection at the discretion of the building
official.
      2.   All signs containing electrical wiring shall be subject to the
provisions of the city electrical code 1 .
      3.   The sign erector's name must appear visibly on all signs.
   B.   Appeals From Action Of Building Official: Any person who has been
ordered by the building official to incur an expense for the alteration or
removal of any sign, or any person whose application for a permit for a sign
has been refused, may appeal to the building inspection board of appeals by
serving written notice to the building official. The notice of appeal must be
served upon the building official by personal service or certified mail within
twenty (20) days after the date of the order of removal or the date the
application for permit has been refused. The notice shall immediately be
transmitted to the board of appeals. All appeals shall be handled in the manner
outlined in the building code.
   C.   Certificate Of Inspection And Compliance Required: Each owner of a sign
shall furnish to the building official, upon request, a letter certifying to a
complete inspection from a bonded and licensed sign company, showing that any
defective maintenance items have been corrected, and showing that the sign is
being maintained in a good state of repair. (Ord. 2447, 1-22-1968; amd. Ord.
2521, 3-16-1970; Ord. 3020, 4-9-1979; Ord. 3325, 2-13-1984)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 3 of this title.
9-6-6: OBSTRUCTIONS; TRAFFIC HAZARDS:
   A.   Obstruct Traffic-Control Signs; Signs Along Highways: No sign shall be
erected in such manner as to confuse or obstruct the view of any official
traffic sign, signal or device. In the case of property abutting a state
property, the sign shall be erected in such a manner as to comply with Iowa
Code chapter 306C.
   B.   Signs Not To Constitute Traffic Hazard: No sign shall be constructed,
erected or altered to obstruct the view of traffic on any highway, street,
intersection or railroad.
   C.   Church Signs: Church signs are permitted on public parking but when
erected shall not obstruct the view of traffic or traffic signals, and shall be
limited to two (2) square feet in area and shall be erected by a licensed sign
erector. (Ord. 2447, 1-22-1968; amd. Ord. 2521, 3-16-1970; Ord. 3325, 2-13-
1984)
9-6-7: DISPLAY ON PARKINGS:
Whenever the building official shall find signs, advertising, displays or any
other materials or articles on public or private property in violation of any
provision of this code or other city ordinance or any law, he may remove such
sign or he shall report his findings to the superintendent of streets who shall
pick up, or cause such materials or articles to be picked up, and stored at the
city garage, where the owner of the materials or articles may claim them by
paying the sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00) to cover the costs incurred by
the city. (Rev. Ord. 2087, Comp. 1941, p. P-8a; Ord. 3325, 2-13-1984)
9-6-8: TRUTH IN ADVERTISING:
No sign shall be permitted anywhere in the city which, in the opinion of the
building official, does not accurately or fairly represent the services or
products advertised on such sign, and which is likely to mislead the general
public who rely upon the information contained on the sign. (Ord. 3020, 4-9-
1979)
9-6-9: OFF-PREMISES ADVERTISING:
   A.   No freestanding off-premises outdoor advertising structure, poster
panel, billboard, permanent paint or rotary paint unit shall exceed a maximum
height of forty feet (40') from surrounding grade level of the arterial the
unit faces. This includes the message area, cutouts, embellishments and
extensions.
   B.   No roof or wall mounted off-premises outdoor advertising structure,
poster panel, billboard, permanent paint or rotary paint unit shall exceed a
maximum of twenty two feet (22') above the roof line. This includes the message
area, cutouts, embellishments and extensions.
   C.   No off-premises outdoor advertising structure, poster panel, billboard,
permanent paint or rotary paint unit shall have a prime copy or message larger
than seven hundred fifty (750) square feet. The embellishment, trim and
skirting area are not to exceed an additional two hundred fifty (250) square
feet.
   D.   No off-premises outdoor advertising structure, poster panel, billboard,
permanent paint or rotary paint unit exceeding one hundred fifty (150) square
feet shall be permitted within three hundred fifty feet (350') of any other
off-premises advertising structure located on the same side of an arterial when
facing the same directional traffic flow. (Ord. 3020, 4-9-1979)
9-6-10: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Enforcement: The building official is hereby authorized and directed to
enforce all the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of a municipal infraction; and each such person shall be
deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof
during which any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is
committed, continued or permitted; and upon conviction of any such violation
such person shall be fined as provided in subsection
1-3-2C of this code. (Ord. 3020, 4-9-1979; amd. 2001 Code)
ARTICLE A. SIGN PERMITS
SECTION:
9-6A-1: Permits Required; Exceptions
9-6A-2: Application For Permit
9-6A-3: Permit Fees
9-6A-4: Tag Issued With Permit; Display
9-6A-5: Liability Insurance
9-6A-1: PERMITS REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: No sign, permanent or portable, shall be painted,
constructed, erected, re-erected, moved or altered except as provided by this
chapter, and until a permit therefor has been issued by the building official.
   B.   Exceptions To Permit: The following signs and sign work shall not
require a sign permit:
      1.   The repair, repainting or cleaning of the sign or changing of the
advertising copy or message thereon.
      2.   A temporary job sign or a sign erected on a construction site, which
does not exceed thirty two (32) square feet in area, which shall be immediately
removed upon completion of the project.
      3.   Real estate sign which does not exceed nine (9) square feet and
which advertises either the sale or rental of the property on which the sign is
placed. Only one such sign per real estate office or frontage shall be placed
on a property at any one time.
      4.   A sign stating the name and profession of the occupant of the
property on which the sign is located, which size shall not exceed one square
foot in area.
      5.   A wall sign not exceeding two and one-half (21/2) square feet in
area.
      6.   Signs that are an integral part of the building.
      7.   One ground sign which denotes a new subdivision and is placed at the
entrance of said subdivision. Said sign shall not exceed thirty two (32) square
feet and shall be promptly removed when seventy five percent (75%) of the lots
are sold.
      8.   All political signs which comply with Iowa Code chapter 306C.22.
      9.   Temporary signs.
These exceptions shall not be construed as to relieve the owner of the sign
from the responsibility of its erection, maintenance and full compliance of the
provisions of this chapter or any other law, provisions of this code or any
other city ordinance regulating signs.
   C.   Exceptions To Bond: The following signs and sign work shall require a
sign permit, but will not require a bond or bonded sign erector to install: a
sign which is fastened flat to any exterior wall as provided by subsection
9-6B-2E of this chapter, and that is not electric, does not exceed five hundred
dollars ($500.00) in valuation and does not exceed thirty two (32) square feet.
(Ord. 2447, 1-22-1968; amd. Ord. 2521, 3-16-1970; Ord. 3020, 4-9-1979; Ord.
3325, 2-13-1984; Ord. 3410, 10-21-1985; Ord. 3587, 10-10-1988)
9-6A-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Application for a permit required by this article shall be made in writing upon
forms furnished by the building official. The application shall contain the
location by street and number of the proposed sign structure, as well as the
name and address of the owner and the sign contractor or erector. The building
official may require the filing of plans or other pertinent information where
in his opinion such information is necessary to insure compliance with this
chapter. (Ord. 2447, 1-22-1968)
9-6A-3: PERMIT FEES:
The following permit fees shall be required for all permits required by this
article:
Total Valuation Fee
Total Valuation        Fee
$ 1.00 to $ 500.00     $ 12.00
500.01 to 600.00       13.50
600.01 to 700.00       15.00
700.01 to 800.00       16.50
800.01 to 900.00       18.00
900.01 to 1,000.00     19.50
1,000.01 to 1,100.00   21.00
1,100.01 to 1,200.00   22.50
1,200.01 to 1,300.00   24.00
1,300.01 to 1,400.00   25.50
1,400.01 to 1,500.00   27.00
1,500.01 to 1,600.00   28.50
1,600.01 to 1,700.00   30.00
1,700.01 to 1,800.00   32.50
1,800.01 to 1,900.00   35.00
1,900.01 to 2,000.00   37.50
2,000.01 to 3,000.00   40.00
3,000.01 to 4,000.00   42.50
4,000.01 to 5,000.00   45.00
5,000.01 to 6,000.00   47.50
6,000.01 to 7,000.00   50.00
7,000.01 to 8,000.00   52.50
8,000.01 to 9,000.00   55.00
9,000.01 to 10,000.00  57.50
10,000.01 to 11,000.00 60.00
11,000.01 to 12,000.00 62.50
12,000.01 to 13,000.00 65.00
13,000.01 to 14,000.00 67.50
14,000.01 to 15,000.00 70.00
15,000.01 to 16,000.00 72.50
16,000.01 to 17,000.00 75.00
17,000.01 to 18,000.00 77.50
18,000.01 to 19,000-00 80.00
19,000.01 to 20,000.00 82.50
20,000.01 to 21,000.00 85.00
21,000.01 to 22,000.00 87.50
22,000.01 to 23,000.00 89.00
23,000.01 to 24,000.00 90.50
24,000.01 to 25,000.00 92.00
25,000.01 to 26,000.00 93.50
26,000.01 to 27,000.00 95.00
27,000.01 to 28,000.00 96.50
28,000.01 to 29,000.00 98.00
29,000.01 to 30,000.00 99.50
30,000.01 to 31,000.00 101.00
31,000.01 to 32,000.00 102.50
32,000.01 to 33,000.00 104.00
33,000.01 to 34,000.00 105.50
34,000.01 to 35,000.00 107.00
35,000.01 to 36,000.00 108.50
36,000.01 to 37,000.00 110.00
37,000.01 to 38,000.00 111.50
38,000.01 to 39,000.00 113.00
39,000.01 to 40,000.00 114.50
40,000.01 to 41,000.00 116.00
41,000.01 to 42,000.00 117.50
42,000.01 to 43,000.00 119.00
43,000.01 to 44,000.00 120.50
44,000.01 to 45,000.00 122.00
45,000.01 to 46,000.00 123.50
46,000.01 to 47,000.00 125.00
47,000.01 to 48,000.00 126.50
48,000.01 to 49,000.00 128.00
49,000.01 to 50,000.00 129.50
 
(Ord. 2447, 1-22-1968; amd. Ord. 2521, 3-16-1970; Ord. 3020, 4-9-1979; Ord.
3325, 2-13-1984; Ord. 3587, 10-10-1988)
9-6A-4: TAG ISSUED WITH PERMIT; DISPLAY:
Each sign for which a permit is issued pursuant to this chapter, and is
erected, constructed or maintained shall be plainly marked with a permit number
tag furnished at the time the permit is issued. The tag shall be placed in such
a manner as to be reasonably visible. (Ord. 2447, 1-22-1968; amd. Ord. 2521, 3-
16-1970; Ord. 3325, 2-13-1984)
9-6A-5: LIABILITY INSURANCE:
Every owner of a sign which is subject to this chapter shall carry liability
insurance for the erection, construction and maintenance of said sign. (Ord.
3325, 2-13-1984)
ARTICLE B. DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
9-6B-1: General Requirements
9-6B-2: Design
9-6B-3: Material Specifications
9-6B-4: Location Restrictions
9-6B-5: Pole Signs
9-6B-6: Ground Signs
9-6B-7: Roof Signs
9-6B-8: Wall Signs
9-6B-9: Projecting Signs
9-6B-10: Marquee Signs
9-6B-11: Electric Signs
9-6B-12: Temporary And Portable Signs
9-6B-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Overall Requirements: Signs and sign structures shall be designed and
constructed to resist wind and seismic forces as specified in this article. All
bracing systems shall be designed and constructed to transfer lateral forces to
the foundations. For signs on buildings, the dead and lateral loads shall be
transmitted through the structural frame of the building to the ground in such
manner as not to over stress any of the elements thereof.
   B.   Combination Signs: The individual requirements of roof, projecting,
pole and ground signs shall be applied for combination signs incorporating any
or all of the requirements specified in sections
9-6B-5,
9-6B-6,
9-6B-7 and
9-6B-9 of this article. (Ord. 2447, 1-22-1968)
9-6B-2: DESIGN:
   A.   Overturning And Dead-Load Moments: The overturning moment produced from
lateral forces shall in no case exceed two-thirds (2/3) of the dead-load
resisting moment. Uplift due to overturning shall be adequately resisted by
proper anchorage to the ground or to the structural frame of the building. The
weight of earth superimposed over footings may be used in determining the dead-
load resisting moment; such earth shall be carefully placed and thoroughly
compacted.
   B.   Wind Loads: For the purpose of design, wind pressure shall be taken
upon the gross area of the vertical projection of all signs and sign structures
at not less than the following:
Feet Above Ground Level Pounds Per Square
                        Foot, Minimum
Feet Above Ground Level   Pounds Per Square
                          Foot, Minimum
Up to 30 feet             25
Up to 49 feet             30
Up to 99 feet             40
Up to 499 feet            45
Up to 1,199 feet          55
Up to 1,200 feet and over 60
 
The building official may require any sign to be erected above ground level to
be engineered by a registered and licensed engineer.
   C.   Stresses:
      1.   The design of wood, concrete, or steel members shall conform to the
requirements of the building code, and loads, both vertical and horizontal,
shall not be exerted on the soil so as to produce stresses exceeding those
herein specified.
      2.   The working stresses of wire rope and its fastenings shall not
exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the ultimate strength of the rope or
fasteners.
      3.   Working stresses for wind or seismic loads combined with dead-loads
may be increased as specified in the building code.
   D.   Supports: The supports for all signs or sign structures shall be placed
in or upon private property and shall be securely built, constructed and
erected in conformance with the requirements of this article.
   E.   Fastenings: Signs attached to masonry, concrete or steel shall be
safely and securely fastened thereto by means of metal anchors, bolts or
approved expansion screws of sufficient size and anchorage to support safely
the loads applied. All building fastenings must be of galvanized or of
noncorrosive materials. (Ord. 2447, 1-22-1968; amd. Ord. 2521, 3-16-1970)
9-6B-3: MATERIAL SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   General Requirements: Materials of construction for signs and sign
structures shall be of the quality and grade as specified for buildings in the
building code.
   B.   Restrictions On Use Of Combustible Materials:
      1.   All permanent signs and sign structures erected in the C-3 zoned
area of the city shall be of noncombustible materials.
      2.   Ground signs may be constructed of any material meeting the
requirements of this article, except as provided in subsection B1 of this
section.
      3.   Combination signs, roof signs, wall signs, projecting signs and
signs on marquees shall be constructed of noncombustible materials, except as
provided for nonstructural trim. No combustible materials other than approved
plastics shall be used in the construction of electric signs.
   C.   Materials For Nonstructural Trim: Nonstructural trim may be of wood,
metal, approved plastics or any combination thereof, except in the C-3 zoned
area of the city.
   D.   Use Of Fireproof Separating Retainers On Plastic Sign Face: All plastic
sign faces shall have a fireproof separating retainer every two hundred fifty
(250) square feet. (Ord. 2447, 1-22-1968; amd. Ord. 3325, 2-13-1984)
9-6B-4: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
Signs shall not be located with less than six feet (6') horizontal or twelve
feet (12') vertical clearance from overhead electric conductors which are
energized in excess of seven hundred fifty (750) volts. (Ord. 2447, 1-22-1968)
9-6B-5: POLE SIGNS:
   A.   All supports of pole signs shall be placed upon private property and
pole signs shall have at least a ten foot (10') vertical clearance wherever
they project over public property.
   B.   Pole signs may not project over public property more than ten feet
(10'), or more than three-fourths (3/4) the distance to the curb line,
whichever is less. (Ord. 2447, 1-22-1968)
9-6B-6: GROUND SIGNS:
   A.   Ground signs shall not project over public property or beyond a
building line.
   B.   Each ground sign and the immediate surrounding premises shall be
maintained by the owner of the sign in a clean, sanitary and inoffensive
condition, and kept free and clear of all noxious substances, rubbish and
weeds. (Ord. 2447, 1-22-1968)
9-6B-7: ROOF SIGNS:
   A.   Roof signs shall be thoroughly secured and anchored to the frame of the
building over which they are constructed and erected.
   B.   A passage, clear of all obstructions, shall be left under or around and
immediately adjacent to all roof signs exceeding a height of four feet (4')
above the roof under the roof sign. The passages shall be not less than three
feet (3') wide and four feet (4') high, and shall be at parapet or roof level.
   C.   Passages or access openings required by subsection B of this section
shall be required as follows:
      1.   Minimum Number: One passage for each roof sign upon a building.
      2.   Horizontal Extension: One passage for every fifty (50) lineal feet
of horizontal roof sign extension.
      3.   Proximity To Walls: One passage within twenty feet (20') of walls
and parapets when roof signs are at right angles to a face of the building.
   D.   The height of the roof sign above the roof must be no more than two and
one-half (21/2) times the height of the building above the ground, and in no
case exceed seventy five feet (75') above the roof line. (Ord. 2447, 1-22-1968)
9-6B-8: WALL SIGNS:
   A.   Wall signs shall project not more than twenty four inches (24") and the
area parallel with the building shall project not more than fifteen inches
(15").
   B.   Wall signs shall not extend more than twelve inches (12") above the
highest point of parapet or roof of the supporting building.
   C.   Wall signs shall maintain the following minimum vertical clearances
where they project over:
      1.   Alleys: Minimum of fourteen feet (14').
      2.   Public Property: Minimum of eight feet (8'). (Ord. 2447, 1-22-1968;
amd. Ord. 3920, 2-1-1993)
9-6B-9: PROJECTING SIGNS:
   A.   Projecting signs may not project over public property beyond ten feet
(10') or more than three-fourths (3/4) the distance to the curb line, whichever
is less; and they may not project into a public alley or public parking lot.
   B.   Projecting signs must be no larger in size than two (2) square feet for
each lineal front foot from the location of the sign to the nearest property
line, down to a minimum of forty (40) square feet. This rule does not apply in
cases where signs do not project more than forty eight inches (48"), in which
case there is no minimum square footage.
   C.   Projecting signs shall maintain the following minimum vertical
clearances where they project over:
      1.   Alleys: Minimum of fourteen feet (14').
      2.   Public Property: Minimum of eight feet (8'). (Ord. 2447, 1-22-1968;
amd. Ord. 3920, 2-1-1993)
9-6B-10: MARQUEE SIGNS:
   A.   Marquee signs may not exceed fifteen inches (15") in depth or six feet
(6') in height, unless the marquee itself is higher, in which case they may
extend to the height of the marquee.
   B.   Marquee signs may project the same distance as the marquee, even though
this may exceed the rule for projecting signs, though they may not extend to
closer than two feet (2') of the curb. (Ord. 2447, 1-22-1968)
9-6B-11: ELECTRIC SIGNS:
   A.   Flashing incandescent lamps shall not exceed a sixty (60) watt level,
unless protected by a sun screen. Reflector lamps must have sun screens except
for indirect floodlighting.
   B.   There shall be no flashing of all elements simultaneously on an
electric sign, or any flashing effect which could be misconstrued as a traffic-
control device. Revolving beacons are prohibited.
   C.   Electric signs must bear a statement of power consumption.
   D.   All electrical wiring to permanent signs shall be underground and
enclosed in the structure or raceway, or said wiring shall meet the
requirements of the utility company if installed overhead.
   E.   No exposed electric wire connected to a temporary or portable sign
shall exceed ten feet (10') in length, and it shall be wired directly to the
sign and shall be of a size equal to the computed load.
   F.   All electric connections to any sign whether permanent, portable or
temporary shall be done by a licensed electrician according to the National
Electrical Code. (Ord. 2447, 1-22-1968; amd. Ord. 3020, 4-9-1979; Ord. 3325, 2-
13-1984)
9-6B-12: TEMPORARY AND PORTABLE SIGNS:
   A.   No temporary sign shall exceed one hundred (100) square feet in area.
Temporary signs of rigid material shall not exceed twenty four (24) square feet
in area, or six feet (6') in height, nor shall any such sign be fastened to the
ground.
   B.   Temporary signs may remain in place for a period not exceeding sixty
(60) days.
   C.   Temporary signs, other than cloth, when eight feet (8') or more above
the ground, may project not more than six inches (6") over public property or
beyond the building line.
   D.   Portable signs, whether on wheels, chassis or frame, and whether
licensed by the motor vehicle department or not, with either fixed or
changeable letters, must meet all the requirements of all the sections of this
chapter or any other city ordinances.
      1.   Portable signs shall not exceed eight feet (8') in height above the
surrounding grade nor more than twelve feet (12') in length.
      2.   Portable signs shall not remain on any one property or location for
a period exceeding sixty (60) days at any one time.
      3.   A portable sign shall not be placed on a property more than ninety
(90) days in any one calendar year. (Ord. 2447, 1-22-1968; amd. Ord. 3020, 4-9-
1979; Ord. 3325, 2-13-1984)
CHAPTER 7
RENTAL HOUSING
SECTION:
9-7-1: Title
9-7-2: Purpose
9-7-3: Definitions
9-7-4: Landlord License Requirement
9-7-5: Rental Unit Permit
9-7-6: Denial, Suspension, Revocation Or Nonrenewal
9-7-7: Inspections Required
9-7-8: Defense In Equity
9-7-9: Owner And Tenant Responsibilities
9-7-10: Housing Appeals Board
9-7-11: Appeals
9-7-12: Violation; Penalty
9-7-13:    Severability
9-7-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the WATERLOO RENTAL HOUSING CODE and shall be
cited as the rental housing code. (Ord. 5650, 6-20-2022)
9-7-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this code is to provide minimum standards to safeguard life,
limb, health, property and public welfare by regulating and controlling the
use, occupancy, location and maintenance of all residential buildings and
structures for rental within this jurisdiction, and to establish a program of
regular rental inspections. (Ord. 5650, 6-20-2022)
9-7-3: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following terms and words shall have the
following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates that a different
meaning is intended:
DWELLING: Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as, or
designed or intended for occupancy as, a place for human residence, including
sleeping quarters and bathroom or kitchen facilities. A dwelling includes but
is not limited to a duplex, multiple dwelling, condominium, dwelling unit,
rooming unit, trailers, mobile homes or sleeping units.
LANDLORD: The owner of a rental unit. Landlord is also referred to in this
chapter as owner, operator, licensee and applicant.
LICENSING OFFICER: The Waterloo city clerk or designee(s).
RENT: Payment of money, goods, labor, service, use, utilities, or other benefit
to the property owner, for the utilization of a rental unit as a dwelling.
RENTAL UNIT: Any dwelling or portion thereof which is not eligible for the Iowa
homestead credit for property tax purposes, and is not the domicile of the
owner of the property.
RESPONSIBLE LOCAL AGENT: A designated agent of a landlord, including a property
manager, who is responsible for fulfilling the landlord's duties with regard to
landlord's rental units. Also referred to herein as an agent.
(Ord. 5650, 6-20-2022)
9-7-4: LANDLORD LICENSE REQUIREMENT:
   A.   License Required: No person shall lease, rent, or otherwise allow a
rental unit to be occupied without a current landlord license obtained from the
city clerk under the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Registration: In order to be granted a landlord license an applicant
must register all rental unit(s) for which the applicant is the owner or
responsible local agent by completing and filing a rental permit registration
form with the city clerk, as provided in this chapter, and paying all fees
required by this code.
   C.   Requirements: The requirements to receive a landlord license include
the following:
      1.   All requirements of section 9-7-7 of this chapter pertaining to
inspections have been met;
      2.   All fees for the registration of the rental unit(s) and license have
been paid in full;
      3.   All judgments of any nature in the city's favor and against the
applicant have been paid in full;
      4.   The applicant has provided the licensing officer the name(s),
address and telephone number(s) of the individual(s) responsible for the
maintenance and management of the registered premises;
      5.   All requirements of chapter 9-1B of this chapter are met on all
rental properties owned by the landlord.
   D.   Issuance Of License: If the licensing officer concludes as a result of
the information contained in the application that the requirements for a
landlord license have been met, then the licensing officer shall issue the
landlord license, otherwise the licensing officer shall issue a notice of
denial.
   E.   License Term: A landlord license shall be valid for no more than one
calendar year. The licensing official shall have the authority to determine
whether all licenses shall expire one calendar year from the date of issuance,
on December 31 of each year, or upon suspension or revocation of the license.
   F.   Fees: A landlord license shall be issued to a landlord at no cost
provided the landlord acquires a permit for all rental units. Failure to obtain
a rental unit permit for all rental units shall result in a one hundred dollar
($100.00) fee. (Ord. 5650, 6-20-2022)
9-7-5: RENTAL UNIT PERMIT:
   A.   Required: No landlord, property manager, or responsible local agent
shall lease, rent, or otherwise allow a rental unit within the city to be
occupied without first obtaining or renewing a rental unit permit from the city
and designating a responsible local agent. All rental units must be registered
annually as required by this chapter. Registration shall be required regardless
of whether the unit is occupied by a tenant.
      1.   Registration Forms: Application for registration shall be made upon
forms furnished by the city and shall, at minimum, require all of the following
information:
         a.   The name of the apartment house or complex, if any;
         b.   The street address and unit number, if applicable, of the rental
unit(s);
         c.   The number and types of rental units within the dwelling;
         d.   Whether the landlord, agent, or tenant is responsible for yard
maintenance and trash collection;
         e.   Multi-Unit Housing: All rental units contained within a multi-
unit dwelling or building may be registered on one registration form by listing
individual addresses if all other required information is the same;
         f.   Represent that the landlord has insurance in effect that insures
each rental unit, and the larger building of which it may be a part, against
damage to the premises, with coverage in an amount sufficient to repair damages
and render the premises habitable within ninety (90) days. Landlord shall
promptly provide proof of such insurance to the city clerk upon request.
   B.   Accurate And Complete Information: All information provided on the
registration form must be accurate and complete. No person shall provide
inaccurate information for the registration of a rental unit. No person shall
file an incomplete registration application. Failure to provide the information
required for such registration shall be grounds for denial or nonrenewal. The
licensing officer shall charge a twenty dollar ($20.00) administrative fee to
any application filed with incomplete information. The landlord or the
designated responsible local agent shall sign the registration form, certifying
to the accuracy and completeness of the information provided. When the owner is
not a natural person, the owner information shall be that of the president,
general manager or other chief executive of the organization.
   C.   Change In Registration Information Or Transfer Of Property:
      1.   Whenever there is a change in the information required for a permit,
the landlord or responsible local agent must be re-registered within thirty
(30) calendar days after any change occurs and either the permit shall be
amended or a new permit shall be issued. A fee shall not be charged if
registration occurs within thirty (30) calendar days of the change.
      2.   If the rental unit is sold, assigned, or otherwise transferred, the
rental unit must be re-registered within thirty (30) calendar days. A fee shall
not be charged if sale, assignment, or transfer occurs prior to the expiration
date of the current permit and registration is completed within thirty (30)
calendar days.
      3.   The landlord shall notify the city clerk's office of any change in
the designation of the responsible local agent including a change in name,
address, e-mail address, telephone number, mobile telephone number or facsimile
number of the designated registered local agent within thirty (30) calendar
days of the change.
      4.   The landlord or responsible local agent shall notify the building
official of a change in the functional design characteristics of the rental
unit or the maximum number of tenants permitted for each rental unit as
regulated by adopted building and life safety codes. Any such change shall
require appropriate inspections and issuance of a new certificate of
compliance.
   D.   Rental Unit Permit Term, Fee, And Renewals:
      1.   Permit Term: A rental unit permit shall be valid for no more than
one calendar year. The licensing official shall have the authority to determine
whether all permits shall expire one calendar year from the date of issuance,
on December 31 of each year, or upon suspension or revocation of the permit or
the landlord license of the property owner. The landlord or responsible local
agent shall re-register each rental unit with the city no later than sixty (60)
days prior to expiration of the permit.
      2.   Permit Fee: The fee for obtaining a rental unit permit shall be
twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per year.
      3.   Failure To Register: Failure to register rental units by the
deadline shall result in the assessment of a double registration fee.
      4.   Expedited Renewal: Annual renewal of rental unit registrations may
be expedited by requesting and submitting a city provided affidavit form that
affirms there are no changes to the previous year's registration information.
The landlord or responsible local agent must review this information prior to
submitting the renewal affidavit.
      5.   Responsible Local Agent: The responsible local agent shall be
responsible for all of the following:
         a.   Operating the registered rental unit in compliance with all
applicable city ordinances;
         b.   Providing escorted access to the rental unit for the purpose of
making any and all inspections necessary to ensure compliance with applicable
city ordinances;
         c.   Maintaining a list of the names and number of occupants of each
rental unit for which he or she is responsible;
         d.   Accepting all legal notices or services of process under this
chapter with respect to the rental unit. (Ord. 5650, 6-20-2022; amd. Ord. 5755,
4-1-2024)
9-7-6: DENIAL, SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OR NONRENEWAL:
   A.   Grounds: The licensing officer or building official may revoke,
suspend, deny or decline to renew any landlord license issued under section
9-7-4 of this chapter or any rental unit permit issued under section
9-7-5 of this chapter for any of the following grounds:
      1.   False statements on any application or other information or report
required by this section to be given by the applicant or licensee.
      2.   Failure to pay all fees, charges, penalties, and assessments owed to
the City of Waterloo in a timely manner, except for such fees, charges,
penalties, or assessments which may be the subject of an active appeal.
      3.   Failure to correct deficiencies noted in notices of violation within
the time specified in the notice.
      4.   Failure to comply with the provisions of a mitigation or remediation
plan approved by the building official or designee.
      5.   Failure to comply with the provisions of title VIII of the Fair
Housing Act of 1968 (as amended).
      6.   Zoning: It shall be unlawful to make alterations and conversions of
any residential use as specified in subsections 10-8-1A1 and 10-10-1A1 of
Ordinance No. 5079, City of Waterloo Zoning Ordinance, without approval by the
Board of Adjustment after recommendation of the Planning, Programming, and
Zoning Commission.
      7.   Failure to provide proof of the insurance referred to in subsection
9-7-5A of this chapter upon request of the city clerk.
      8.   Designation of a rental unit or the larger structure of which it is
a part as an unsafe structure by the building official or his designee.
      9.   Failure to file a complete application.
      10.   Any conviction under section
9-7-9.
      11.   Conviction of three (3) or more property related municipal
infractions by the landlord, property manager, or responsible local agent in
one (1) year period.
   B.   Notice Of Decision: A decision to deny, suspend, revoke or not renew a
license or permit shall be in writing, delivered by ordinary mail to the
address indicated on the application or license, and shall specify reasons for
the action.
   C.   Effect Of Decision: Upon decision to deny, suspend, revoke or not renew
a rental unit permit, no new application for a rental unit permit for the same
rental unit or multi-unit building shall be accepted for a period of six (6)
months from the date of the decision. After the six (6) month period has
expired, the landlord may reapply for a rental unit permit, but approval is not
automatic depending on the specific facts of the case. Further action adverse
to the landlord or responsible local agent is appealable under this chapter. No
rent may be collected for any rental unit not covered by a valid, current
rental unit permit in accordance with subsection D of this section. Until such
rental unit permit is issued, reissued or reinstated, no new rental contracts
may be entered into and rent may not be collected by the landlord or its local
responsible agent for any of such landlord's rental properties, but existing
rental contracts may be extended or renewed on the same terms and rent owed may
be collected.
   D.   Rent Abatement: No rent may be collected for any rental unit not
covered by a valid, current rental unit permit. The licensing officer may order
rent abated when it is determined that the owner has, after issuance of a
notice of violation of this chapter:
      1.   Failed to provide an essential service (water, sewer, electricity,
heat);
      2.   Failed to remedy a condition that poses a substantial risk to the
health or safety of the tenant, unless the tenant's or the tenant's guests acts
or omissions caused said condition; or
      3.   Allowed an individual to live in a rental unit that does not have a
valid rental permit.
   Rent abatement means that the owner may not recover rent from the tenant.
Rent shall be abated until the condition for which rent abatement was ordered
has been remedied. A copy of the rent abatement order shall be given to the
owner at the address on the rental permit and to the tenant by U.S. mail and by
posting on the entrance door to dwelling unit. Notice of termination of the
rent abatement order will be given in the same manner.
   E.   Appeals: A landlord, property manager, or responsible local agent may
appeal the decision of the licensing official to abate, deny, suspend, revoke,
or not renew a rental unit permit. The applicant or holder of the license or
permit may appeal the decision to the housing appeals board as provided in
section 9-7-11 of this chapter.
   F.   Order Of Precedence To Deny, Suspend, Revoke Or Not Renew A Landlord
License Or Rental Unit Permit:
      1.   First Course Of Action: Rental unit permit(s) shall be denied,
suspended, revoked or not renewed if an owner allows a specific property or
properties to remain in violation of this chapter or otherwise in an illegal
condition or status and has failed to take responsible, reasonable and
verifiable actions on a timely basis to remedy the violation(s).
      2.   Second Course Of Action: Landlord license shall be denied,
suspended, revoked or not renewed if an owner allows repeated violations to
occur and continues to allow rental unit(s) to remain in violation of this
chapter or otherwise in an illegal condition or status and has failed to take
responsible, reasonable and verifiable actions on a timely basis to remedy the
violation(s). (Ord. 5650, 6-20-2022; amd. Ord. 5755, 4-1-2024)
9-7-7: INSPECTIONS REQUIRED:
   A.   Rental Properties: Regular inspection on all residential rental
property, including mobile homes, shall be made once every three (3) years for
compliance with the building code, property maintenance code, other applicable
codes, and this chapter. In addition to said codes and this chapter, the
housing quality standards promulgated by the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development for use in assisted housing programs shall govern
to the extent not superseded by more stringent requirements of said codes and
this chapter. Inspections of all properties shall also be made at any time upon
receipt of a complaint or request by a tenant or owner. Any rental structure
receiving two (2) complaints regarding substantiated violations during any
twelve (12) month period shall be put on an annual inspection schedule for
three (3) years following the last substantiated complaint.
   B.   Regular Inspections: Inspections shall be made with notice to the
owner, or its responsible local agent if any, and occupant at least five (5)
days prior to the inspection being made. Inspection shall be made of each
rental unit and of all common space or areas under the owner's control.
   C.   Certificate Of Inspection:
      1.   No person shall rent, lease or cause to be occupied any rental unit
that does not possess a certificate of inspection issued under this code. Any
landlord or responsible local agent registering a rental unit for the first
time must have a rental inspection completed prior to renting a rental unit and
prior to receiving a rental unit permit.
      2.   After passing inspection, a rental unit governed by this chapter
shall be issued a certificate of inspection.
      3.   The landlord, property manager, or its responsible local agent if
any, and occupants of rental units inspected under this chapter shall be
furnished with a list of any violations and shall be advised specifically of
any violations which may cause an immediate hazard to the health or safety of
an occupant, with a specific time limit set for correction of the violations.
      4.   A certificate of inspection shall in no way signify or imply that
the premises for which it is issued is in conformance or compliance with all
portions of the City of Waterloo City Code, or the laws of Black Hawk County or
the State of Iowa. The City of Waterloo shall maintain no liability in regard
to the certificate of compliance.
   D.   Inspection Fees: All inspection and re-inspection fees shall be paid by
the owner or responsible local agent prior to the issuance of a certificate of
inspection. Any inspection fee not paid within thirty (30) days shall be deemed
a violation of this section. Fees shall be as follows:
      1.   A re-inspection fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) per unit if not in
compliance shall be charged for the first re-inspection. A re-inspection fee of
one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00) per unit shall be charged for the
second re-inspection. A re-inspection fee of two hundred and fifty dollars
($250.00) per unit shall be charged for the third re-inspection.
      2.   A fee of one hundred ($100.00) shall be charged for all scheduled
inspections where an appointment is not kept and the owner, local responsible
agent or occupant did not provide notice to cancel the inspection within
twenty-four (24) hours of the appointment.
   E.   Lead Based Paint: Every owner or operator of a dwelling unit or rooming
unit being let for rent and/or occupancy shall certify that the dwelling is in
accordance with HUD lead based paint regulations, 24 CFR, part 35, issued
pursuant to the Lead Based Paint Poisoning Prevention Act, as amended. (Ord.
5650, 6-20-2022)
9-7-8: DEFENSE IN EQUITY:
It is declared to be against the public policy of the City of Waterloo for a
landlord or their agent to commence equitable proceedings pursuant to Iowa Code
Chapter 648 without first being licensed and registered by the City of Waterloo
pursuant to this `chapter. It is further declared to be the public policy of
the City of Waterloo that tenants be afforded the benefit of the equitable
doctrine of clean hands in any action filed pursuant to Iowa Code Chapter 648.
(Ord. 5650, 6-20-2022)
9-7-9: OWNER AND TENANT RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Landlord: Every landlord or its agent, in addition to being responsible
for maintaining each rental unit in a sound structural condition, shall be
responsible for keeping that part of the building or premises which it controls
in a clean, sanitary and safe condition, including the shared or public areas
in a building containing two (2) or more rental units. In addition, every
landlord or its agent shall comply with the provisions of title 5, chapter 3,
article B of this code, granting housing protections to victims of domestic
violence.
   B.   Tenant To Maintain Rental Unit: The tenant shall comply with all
obligations primarily imposed upon tenants by applicable provisions of building
and housing codes materially affecting health and safety.
   C.   In every rental agreement entered into after the effective date of this
chapter, the following obligation shall be imposed upon the landlord:
      1.   The landlord shall provide tenant with a summary of rights pursuant
Iowa Code chapter 562A. (Ord. 5650, 6-20-2022)
9-7-10: HOUSING APPEALS BOARD:
The housing appeals board shall consist of five (5) members, three (3) of whom
shall constitute a quorum. All appointments shall be for a term of three (3)
years. The board shall consist of a home builder, a tenant, a landlord and two
(2) members at large. Each board member shall be a resident of the city of
Waterloo or shall have his or her principal place of employment in the city of
Waterloo. No member of said board shall serve more than two (2) consecutive
terms and shall not be reappointed to a third term unless said member has not
served on any board or commission of the city for a minimum of one year before
reappointment to any board or commission; provided, however, that a third term
may be approved upon extraordinary circumstances and/or unavailability of
applicants as determined by the mayor. (Ord. 5650, 6-20-2022)
9-7-11: APPEALS:
   A.   Right Of Appeal: A person aggrieved by a decision of the licensing
officer or the building official may file a written appeal with the city clerk
within fourteen (14) days of the postmarked date of the notice of decision. An
administrative fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) must be paid when the appeal is
filed. Failure to file the appeal and pay the administrative fee within said
fourteen (14) days shall constitute a waiver of the right to a hearing, and the
decision shall thereupon become final.
   B.   Scheduling And Noticing Appeal For Hearing: As soon as practicable
after receiving the written appeal the housing appeals board shall fix a date,
time, and place for the hearing of the appeal by the board. Such date shall be
not less than ten (10) days nor more than sixty (60) days from the date the
appeal was filed with the city clerk and the administrative fee paid. Written
notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be given at least ten (10)
days before the date of the hearing to each appellant by the city clerk either
by delivering a copy of such notice to the appellant personally or by mailing a
copy thereof, postage prepaid, addressed to the appellant at his or her address
shown on the appeal. The hearing shall be scheduled for no more than thirty
(30) minutes in length, or such additional time as the board in its discretion
may deem necessary. If the appellant desires additional time, he or she must
make application to the board at least seven (7) days before the hearing date.
   C.   Conduct Of Hearing: At the appeal hearing the appellant shall have an
opportunity to be heard and to show cause as to why such decision should be
modified, extended, or overturned, or why a variance should be granted. Only
those matters or issues specifically raised by the appellant shall be
considered in the hearing of the appeal. The appeal hearing shall be simple and
informal, without regard to technicalities of procedure or rules regarding
admissibility of evidence. The board may consider any evidence it considers
credible, including testimony of city employees, written summaries and other
secondary sources, and give such weight to the evidence as it considers
warranted. After such hearing the board, by a majority vote, may sustain,
modify, extend or revoke a decision or grant or deny a variance. Such
determination shall be contained in a written decision and shall be filed with
the city clerk within ten (10) days after the hearing, or any continued session
thereof.
   D.   Variances Or Extensions: The board, by majority vote, may grant
variances or extensions of time to take corrective action. In the event that an
extension or variance is granted, the board shall observe the following
conditions:
      1.   In lieu of or in addition to administrative extensions, the board
may grant an extension or extensions of time for compliance with any order or
notice provided that the board makes specific findings of fact based on
evidence relating to the following:
         a.   That there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in
carrying out the strict letter of any notice or order; and
         b.   That such an extension is in harmony with the general purpose and
intent of this chapter in securing the public health, safety and general
welfare.
      2.   Except under extraordinary circumstances, the extension or sum of
extensions shall not exceed nine (9) months.
      3.   The board may grant a variance in a specific case and from a
specific provision of this chapter subject to appropriate conditions; and
provided the board makes specific findings of fact based on evidence presented
on the record as a whole, and related to the following:
         a.   That there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in
carrying out a strict letter of any notice or order; and
         b.   That due to the particular circumstances presented, the effect of
the application of the provisions would be arbitrary in the specific case; and
         c.   That an extension would not constitute an appropriate remedy for
these practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in this arbitrary effect;
and
         d.   That such variance is in harmony with the general purpose and
intent of this chapter in securing the public health, safety and general
welfare.
   E.   Staying Of Order Under Appeal: Enforcement of any notice issued under
this chapter shall be stayed during the pendency of a timely and properly
perfected appeal therefrom. (Ord. 5650, 6-20-2022)
9-7-12: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Violation: Any landlord, property manager, or responsible local agent
who violates the requirements of this chapter shall be guilty of a municipal
infraction, subject to prosecution and penalty in accordance with section 1-3-
2 of this code and further actions to deny, suspend, revoke or not renew a
landlord license or rental unit permit as prescribed in this chapter. The
provisions of this chapter shall apply to all landlords, property managers, and
responsible local agents whether or not they have obtained a rental unit
permit.
   B.   Correction: Violation correction procedures as prescribed in sections
106 and 107 of the adopted International Property Maintenance Code shall be
followed unless otherwise amended by this or other provisions of this code.
   C.   Injunction: It shall be unlawful for any person to violate, or fail to
comply with, any of the requirements of this chapter. If a person has violated,
or continues to violate, the provisions of this chapter, the city attorney may
petition for a preliminary or permanent injunction restraining the person from
activities which would create further violations or compelling the person to
perform abatement or remediation of the violation. (Ord. 5650, 6-20-2022)
9-7-13: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, provision or part of this chapter shall be adjudged invalid or
unconstitutional, such adjudication shall not affect the validity of this
chapter as a whole or any section, provision or part thereof not adjudged
invalid or unconstitutional. (Ord. 5650, 6-20-2022)
CHAPTER 8
HISTORIC PRESERVATION
SECTION:
9-8-1: Purpose And Intent
9-8-2: Definitions
9-8-3: Commission Composition And Membership
9-8-4: Meetings
9-8-5: Commission Powers And Duties
9-8-6: Identification And Designation Of Historic Landmarks, Historic Districts
And Preservation Districts
9-8-7: Alteration Of Historic Landmarks, Historic Districts And Preservation
Districts
9-8-8: Procedure For Review; Issuance Of Certificates Of No Material Effect,
Appropriateness, And Economic Hardship
9-8-9: Appeals From Commission Action
9-8-10: Remedy Of Dangerous Conditions
9-8-11: Compliance With Certificate
9-8-12: Fees
9-8-13: Violations And Penalties
9-8-14: Compliance With Existing Zoning Regulations
9-8-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to:
   A.   Protect, enhance, and perpetuate those buildings, sites, and districts
that represent or reflect special elements of the city's cultural, social,
economic, and architectural history;
   B.   Safeguard the city's historic, aesthetic, and cultural heritage as
embodied and reflected in such buildings, sites, and districts;
   C.   Strengthen the city's economy by encouraging the stabilization,
improvement, preservation, or rehabilitation of designated properties,
districts or sites;
   D.   Protect and enhance the city's historic, cultural, and architectural
heritage for tourists and visitors and thereby support and stimulate business
and industry;
   E.   Promote the use of historic buildings, sites and districts for the
education, pleasure, and general welfare of the people of the city;
   F.   Promote attention to sound design principles in areas of new
development and redevelopment, and raise the level of community understanding
and expectation for quality in the built environment; and
   G.   Integrate historic preservation with the city's comprehensive land use
plan. (Ord. 5057, 7-11-2011)
9-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates otherwise:
ALTERATION: Any act or process that changes the exterior architectural or
environmental features of a building, structure, object, site, or area,
including, but not limited to, the addition to, erection, excavation,
construction, reconstruction, restoration, rehabilitation, removal, or
demolition of any building, structure, object, or site, or part thereof.
AREA: A specific geographic division of the city of Waterloo.
BUILDING: Any structure built for the support, shelter, or enclosure of
persons, animals, or property of any kind.
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS: A document issued by the commission that
evidences its approval, or approval with modification, of plans for an
alteration that: a) will require a regulated permit or, regardless of whether a
regulated permit is required, will affect landscaping or a door, window, or
screen for a door or window, and b) will cause a material change in appearance
or the removal of a historic landmark or of a building, structure, object, or
site within a historic district.
CERTIFICATE OF ECONOMIC HARDSHIP: A document issued by the commission that
evidences its determination that an alteration: a) requires a regulated permit
or, regardless of whether a regulated permit is required, will affect
landscaping or a door, window, or screen for a door or window, b) will cause a
material change in appearance, or the removal or demolition, of a historic
landmark or a building, structure, object or site within a historic district or
preservation district, c) has resulted or would result in denial of an
application for a certificate of appropriateness, and d) if not allowed to
proceed, would result in the owner being deprived of any reasonable economic
return on the property.
CERTIFICATE OF NO MATERIAL EFFECT: A document issued by the commission that
evidences a determination that plans for an activity that requires a regulated
permit or, regardless of whether a regulated permit is required, will affect
landscaping or a door, window, or screen for a door or window: a) is not an
"alteration", "construction", "removal", "demolition", or "excavation", as such
terms may be defined by this chapter, and b) does not cause a material change
in the appearance or exterior features of a historic landmark or of a building,
structure, object, or site within a historic district or preservation district.
CHANGE IN APPEARANCE: A change that will affect either the exterior
architectural or environmental features of a historic landmark or of any
building, structure, object, site, landscape feature, or work of art within a
historic district or preservation district, including those located on publicly
owned property or in street or highway right of way and as to which the change
is not required by applicable law for reasons of public health or safety. By
way of illustration only, the following may constitute a change in appearance
that is material:
   A.   A reconstruction or alteration of the size, shape, or facade of a
historic landmark, including replacement or relocation of any doors or windows
or removal or alteration of any architectural features, details, or elements.
   B.   Demolition or relocation of a historic landmark.
   C.   Commencement of excavation for construction purposes.
   D.   A change in the location of advertising visible from the public right
of way.
   E.   The erection, alteration, restoration, or removal of any building or
other structure within a historic landmark, historic district or preservation
district, including walls, fences, steps, pavements, or other appurtenant
features.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Waterloo, Iowa.
COMMISSION: The Waterloo historic preservation commission, as established by
this chapter and by title 2, chapter 9 of this code.
CONSTRUCTION: Any act or process that adds an addition, including, but not
limited to, additional height, to an existing structure or erects a new
principal or accessory structure on a site. "Construction" includes the placing
of construction materials in a permanent position and fastening them in a
permanent manner.
DEMOLITION: The act or process or pulling down, destroying, removing, or razing
a structure or commencing the work of total or substantial destruction.
DESIGN STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES: A standard of acceptable activity that will
preserve or rehabilitate the prehistoric, historic, architectural,
archeological, or cultural character of a historic landmark, a historic
district, a preservation district, or a building, structure, object, or site in
a historic district or preservation district. Guidelines shall include design
standards and/or guidelines adopted by resolution of the city council, design
standards and/or guidelines specified in the ordinance or amendment designating
a historic landmark, historic district or preservation district, the secretary
of the interior's standards and guidelines for the treatment of historic
properties, the secretary of the interior's standards for preservation and
guidelines for preserving historic buildings, the secretary of the interior's
standards for rehabilitation and guidelines for rehabilitating historic
buildings, and any subsequent revisions of said standards and guidelines by the
secretary of the interior.
EXCAVATION: The digging out or removal of earth or soil.
EXTERIOR ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES: The architectural style and the general design
and arrangement of the exterior of a structure, including, but not limited to,
the kind, color, and texture of the building material and the type, style, and
arrangement of all windows, doors, light fixtures, signs, and other appurtenant
fixtures, features, details, or elements relative to the foregoing.
EXTERIOR ENVIRONMENTAL FEATURES: All those aspects of the landscape or the
development of a site that affect the historical character of the property.
HISTORIC DISTRICT: A significant concentration, linkage, or continuity of
sites, buildings, structures, or objects united historically by plan or
physical development. This area must contain contiguous pieces of property
under diverse ownership, which meets one or more of the historic significance
criteria and has been officially designated as a historic district by ordinance
pursuant to the procedures set forth in this chapter. A historic district
differs from a preservation district in that: a) the regulation of this chapter
with respect to a historic district applies to all exterior architectural or
environmental features and is not limited to those features that are visible
only from public rights of way, and b) the preservation standards applicable to
a historic district are intended to be more rigorous, and are intended to be
interpreted with a more broad view of whether a proposed alteration is material
in its effect, than is true with preservation standards applicable to a
preservation district.
HISTORIC LANDMARK: A building, structure, object, or site that meets one or
more of the historic significance criteria and has been designated as a
historic landmark by ordinance pursuant to the procedures set forth in this
chapter.
HISTORIC SIGNIFICANCE CRITERIA: Analytical factors used in determining if a
building, structure, object, site, or district is historically significant. The
criteria apply to the quality of significance in American history,
architecture, archaeology, engineering, and culture that is present in
buildings, structures, sites, or districts that possess integrity of location,
design, setting, materials, workmanship, feeling, and association, and:
   A.   That are associated with events that have made significant
contributions to the broad patterns of our history; or
   B.   That are associated with the lives of significant persons in the past;
or
   C.   That embody the distinctive characteristics of a type, period, or
method of construction, that represent the work of a master, that possess high
artistic value, or that represent a significant and distinguishable entity
whose components may lack individual distinction; or
   D.   That have yielded, or may be likely to yield, information important in
history or prehistory.
INTEGRITY: The original, unaltered, or historically altered appearance of a
structure, site, or area when taken as a whole.
LANDSCAPING: Any activity that modifies the visible features of a site, apart
from principal and accessory buildings, including, but not limited to, trees,
shrubs, and woody vines, landforms, terrain shape and elevation, nonvegetative
ground cover and overlayments, bodies or courses of water, structures, fences
and objects. Vegetation other than trees, shrubs and woody vines does not
constitute "landscaping" for purposes of this chapter.
LOCAL DESIGNATION: The process set forth in section
9-8-6 of this chapter by which historic landmarks, historic districts and
preservation districts are identified and designated.
NATIONAL REGISTER OF HISTORIC PLACES: A listing maintained by the U.S.
department of the interior, national park service, of buildings, structures,
objects, sites, and districts determined to be significant in American history,
architecture, archeology, engineering, and culture. Listing of a building,
structure, object, site, or district on the national register of historic
places is distinct from "local designation" as defined in this chapter.
OBJECT: As distinguished from buildings and structures, those constructions
that are primarily artistic in nature or are relatively small in scale and
simply constructed. Although it may be movable by nature or design, an object
is associated with a specific setting or environment.
OWNER: The person or legal entity listed in the public records as owner for
purposes of taxation, and shall be construed to include an owner of record.
PRESERVATION: The act or process of applying measures necessary to sustain the
existing form, integrity, and materials of a historic property. Work, including
preliminary measures to protect and stabilize the property, generally focuses
on the ongoing maintenance and repair of historic materials and features rather
than extensive replacement and new construction. New exterior additions are not
within the scope of a preservation treatment; however, the limited and
sensitive upgrading of mechanical, electrical and plumbing systems and other
code related work to make properties functional is appropriate within a
preservation project.
PRESERVATION DISTRICT: A significant concentration, linkage, or continuity of
sites, buildings, structures, or objects united historically by plan or
physical development. This area must contain contiguous pieces of property
under diverse ownership, which meets one or more of the historic significance
criteria and has been officially designated as a preservation district by
ordinance pursuant to the procedures set forth in this chapter. A preservation
district differs from a historic district in that: a) the regulation of this
chapter with respect to a preservation district is limited to exterior
architectural or environmental features that are visible from public rights of
way, not including alleys, and b) the preservation standards applicable to a
preservation district are intended to be less rigorous, and are intended to be
interpreted with a more narrow view of whether a proposed alteration is
material in its effect, than is true with preservation standards applicable to
a historic district.
PROPERTY INVENTORY: A file of information about buildings, structures, sites,
objects and districts in the city of Waterloo, including, but not limited to,
completed Iowa site inventory forms, national register of historic places
nominations, reports of survey and evaluation projects and contexts developed
for the city, officially designated city of Waterloo landmark and historic
district nominations, and other germane information.
REASONABLE ECONOMIC RETURN: A fair and equitable stream of income or
appreciation in value, as compared to properties of similar location, use, or
structures, under generally prevailing economic conditions in the city of
Waterloo.
REGULATED PERMIT: An official document or certificate issued by the building
official, city engineer, or other city official pursuant to provisions of the
building code or other ordinance or regulation that authorizes the performance
of a specified activity.
REHABILITATION: The act or process of making possible a compatible use for a
property through repairs, alterations, and additions while preserving those
portions or features that convey its historical, cultural, or architectural
value.
REMOVAL: Any relocation of a building, structure, or object on its site or to
another site.
REPAIR: Any act or process that: a) does not require a building permit, b) is
not construction, removal, excavation, or demolition, and c) does not involve a
material change in appearance as a result of any alteration of or to
landscaping or a door, window, or screen for a door or window.
SHPO: The state historic preservation office of the state historical society of
Iowa, a division of the Iowa department of cultural affairs.
SITE: The location of a significant event, a prehistoric or historic occupation
or activity, or a building or structure, whether standing, ruined, or vanished,
where the location itself possesses historic, cultural, or archeological value
regardless of the value of any existing structure.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected that requires permanent or temporary
location on or in the ground, including, but not limited to, buildings and
appurtenant structures, such as landscape features and sidewalks; lampposts and
streetlights; fences; advertising signs and billboards; telecommunications
antennas; dishes and towers; swimming pools; and solar collectors. A structure
also includes any improvements on publicly owned property. (Ord. 5057, 7-11-
2011)
9-8-3: COMMISSION COMPOSITION AND MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Appointments:
      1.   The commission shall consist of an odd number of members, no fewer
than five (5) in number, all of whom are residents or owners of real property
within the city of Waterloo. The specific number of members shall be as
determined in the commission's bylaws. All of said members shall be appointed
by the mayor and approved by the city council.
      2.   Each historic district and preservation district shall be
represented by at least one member appointed from among persons owning property
in the district. Other members shall be chosen at large. Each member shall
possess a demonstrated special interest, experience or education in the
preservation of historic resources, history, architecture or archaeology. The
commission's members shall include, as available, licensed architects or
professionals in the fields of history, architectural history, planning or
archaeology.
      3.   No more than one member of the city's planning, programming and
zoning commission shall serve on the commission.
   B.   Terms:
      1.   The term for each member shall be three (3) years. No member of the
commission shall serve more than two (2) consecutive terms, but a member may be
reappointed to one or more additional terms upon extraordinary circumstances
and/or unavailability of applicants. The appointment of members shall be
staggered, with no fewer than two (2) being appointed in any given year.
      2.   Vacancies occurring in the commission, other than by expiration of
term of office, shall be filled only for the unexpired term.
      3.   Each member shall serve until the appointment of a successor.
   C.   Compensation: Members shall serve without compensation.
   D.   Organization:
      1.   The commission shall elect from its membership a chair and vice
chair whose terms of office shall be one year. The chair and vice chair may
serve for more than one term, but no member shall serve as chair for more than
two (2) consecutive years.
      2.   The chair shall preside over meetings and shall have the right to
vote in the event of a tie only. The vice chair shall, in cases of absence or
disability of the chair, perform the duties of the chair. A simple majority
vote of members at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be sufficient
to pass a motion.
      3.   Staff to the commission shall serve as secretary. The secretary
shall record each meeting, take minutes and keep a record of all applications,
resolutions, proceedings, and actions of the commission.
   E.   Other Operating Procedures:
      1.   Annually, the commission shall prepare a report to the city council
summarizing the activities of the commission in the past year and shall present
it to the city council. The report should state the status of preservation in
the city and recommend any improvements the commission deems necessary.
      2.   Members of the commission shall participate in training programs
from time to time. These may include special commission study sessions, which
shall not be regularly scheduled meetings, and other training programs provided
in the state or nation. At a minimum, all members shall attend one training
session annually. (Ord. 5057, 7-11-2011)
9-8-4: MEETINGS:
   A.   A quorum shall consist of a simple majority of all members of the
commission.
   B.   The commission shall hold at least one public meeting each month,
unless there is no business to transact, at such times as the commission shall
establish in its bylaws.
   C.   The commission shall transact business at regular meetings, or at
special meetings held only when the chair or three (3) members declare a need
exists. One day written or oral notice to the members of the time, place, and
reason(s) for said meeting must be given. Further notice to the public shall be
posted at least twenty four (24) hours in advance of the meeting.
   D.   All regular and special meetings of the commission shall be open to the
public, and any person shall be entitled to appear and be heard on a matter
before the commission reaches its decision.
   E.   Except as otherwise set forth in this chapter, written notice to the
general public of any meeting or hearing shall be posted at least twenty four
(24) hours in advance of the meeting or hearing. Except as otherwise set forth
in this chapter, written notice to an applicant or other specific person
required by this chapter shall be mailed by first class mail no less than four
(4) days in advance of the meeting or hearing to the recipient's last known
address or the address as it appears in the records of the county auditor.
Failure to send notice by mail to any person entitled to notice shall not
invalidate any proceedings that occur at the meeting or hearing for which
notice is given if the address of such person is not known or does not appear
in the county auditor's records.
   F.   Members of the commission shall attend at least two-thirds (2/3) of all
regular and special scheduled meetings within any twelve (12) month period. If
any member attends fewer meetings, it may constitute grounds for the commission
to recommend to the city council that the member be replaced. Attendance of all
members shall be entered in the minutes.
   G.   No commission member shall participate in the discussion or vote on any
matter that has the appearance of a current or anticipated, direct or indirect,
financial or material effect on his or her property, income, or business
interests or on the property, income, or business interests of any person
related to a member by blood or marriage within the third degree of
consanguinity. The commission member shall be responsible for notifying the
chair and secretary of a possible conflict of interest prior to the commission
taking any action on the matter. (Ord. 5057, 7-11-2011)
9-8-5: COMMISSION POWERS AND DUTIES:
The commission shall have the following duties and may exercise the following
powers:
   A.   Shall adopt its own bylaws or procedural regulations consistent with
state and federal guidelines.
   B.   Shall maintain a system for and conduct an ongoing identification and
evaluation of historically, archaeologically, culturally, and architecturally
significant buildings, structures, objects, sites and districts and shall
establish and oversee a property inventory that complies with the property
inventory of the state of Iowa and is available for public inspection and use.
   C.   May research and recommend to the city council the adoption of
ordinances designating buildings, structures, sites, objects, or areas as
historic landmarks.
   D.   May research and recommend to the city council the adoption of
ordinances designating areas as historic districts or preservation districts.
   E.   Shall keep a register of all buildings, structures, objects, sites, and
districts that have been designated as historic landmarks or historic
districts. The register shall include all information required for each
designation.
   F.   May determine an appropriate system of markers for designated historic
landmarks, historic districts and preservation districts.
   G.   In addition to funds regularly budgeted to the commission each year,
may request from the city council funds for the operation of programs that meet
the purposes and intent of this chapter. The commission may also apply for
grants or seek other funding for these operations.
   H.   Shall from time to time establish written design standards and/or
guidelines, subject to approval by the city council, which approval shall be by
resolution.
   I.   Shall review and make decisions on any applications for certificates of
no material effect, certificates of appropriateness, or certificates of
economic hardship, and shall require presentation of such plans, drawings,
elevations, and other information as may be necessary to make such decisions.
   J.   Shall review actions or activities that are subject to city regulation
and that affect proposed or designated buildings, structures, objects, and
sites, or buildings, structures, objects and sites within historic districts or
preservation districts, including, but not limited to, zoning amendments,
proposed plats, applications for special use permits, and applications for
zoning variances, and after review, submit a recommendation to the appropriate
city board or commission.
   K.   Shall make a recommendation to the state historic preservation officer
for the listing of a historic district or historic landmark in the national
register of historic places and shall conduct a public hearing thereon.
   L.   May promote public interest in the purposes described in this chapter
by carrying on a public education program, which can include:
      1.   Assisting and encouraging any organization or individual that
desires to protect, enhance or preserve the use of structures, sites and areas
of historic and/or cultural significance;
      2.   Encouraging and assisting in the establishment of educational and
cultural programs, tours and events to advance the purpose described in this
chapter;
      3.   Encouraging and assisting in the use of incentive programs, historic
preservation techniques, and historic preservation resources that aid property
owners and residents in the preservation of their historic and/or culturally
significant structures or districts;
      4.   Making recommendations to the city council and city commissions and
boards on preservation issues when appropriate.
   M.   May, subject to approval of the city council:
      1.   Acquire by purchase, bequest, or donation total or lesser ownership
or possessory interests in historic properties, including properties adjacent
to or associated with historic properties;
      2.   Preserve, restore, maintain, and operate historic properties under
the ownership or control of the commission;
      3.   Lease, sell, and otherwise transfer or dispose of historic
properties, including properties subject to rights of public access or other
covenants, in a manner that will preserve such properties;
      4.   Cooperate with the federal, state, and local governments in
pursuance of the objectives of historic preservation, and enter contracts with
federal, state, or local governments or other organizations to carry out the
purposes and intent of this chapter;
      5.   Accept unconditional gifts and donations of real and personal
property, including money, for the purpose of historic preservation.
   N.   May exercise any other power or undertake any other duty authorized by
the city council. (Ord. 5057, 7-11-2011)
9-8-6: IDENTIFICATION AND DESIGNATION OF HISTORIC LANDMARKS, HISTORIC DISTRICTS
AND PRESERVATION DISTRICTS:
   A.   Nomination:
      1.   Historic Landmarks: The nomination of historic landmarks shall be
made by the property owner, the commission, or any other person or
organization.
      2.   Historic Districts: The nomination of historic districts shall be
made by an owner of record of property within a proposed historic district, the
commission, or any other person or organization. The nomination shall be
supported by the written consent of no less than twenty five percent (25%) of
the record owners of properties in the proposed historic district.
      3.   Preservation Districts: The nomination of preservation districts
shall be made by an owner of record of property within a proposed preservation
district, the commission, or any other person or organization. The nomination
shall be supported by the written consent of no less than twenty five percent
(25%) of the record owners of properties in the proposed historic district.
   B.   Content Of Landmark Nominations: All nominations shall be made on forms
supplied by the commission. Nominations must be complete when submitted to the
commission. An incomplete nomination will be returned to the applicant. A
landmark nomination must contain the following:
      1.   A completed Iowa site inventory form with all attachments or a
national register of historic places nomination form for a property listed on
the national register;
      2.   Photographic documentation of the property at the time of
nomination;
      3.   A scale map showing the location of the property within the city at
the time of nomination;
      4.   A scale map of the property showing the proposed boundaries, extant
buildings, structures, objects, and sites within the property at the time of
nomination;
      5.   Statements and documentation that the property meets one or more of
the historic significance criteria.
   C.   Content Of District Nominations: All nominations for historic districts
and preservation districts shall be made on forms supplied by the commission.
Nominations must be complete when submitted to the commission. An incomplete
nomination will be returned to the applicant. A district nomination must
contain the following:
      1.   Completed Iowa site inventory forms with all attachments for all
buildings, structures, objects, and sites within the proposed district or, for
a historic district only, a national register of historic places nomination
form for a historic district listed on the national register;
      2.   Photographic documentation of all properties in the proposed
district at the time of nomination;
      3.   A scale map showing the location of the proposed district within the
city at the time of nomination;
      4.   A scale map of the proposed district showing the proposed
boundaries, extant buildings, structures, objects, and sites within the
district at the time of nomination;
      5.   A list of names and addresses of owners of record of all properties
within the district; and
      6.   Statements and documentation that the proposed district meets one or
more of the historic significance criteria.
   D.   Procedure:
      1.   Public Review: All nominations shall be available for public review
at city hall.
      2.   Notice Of Public Hearing: Written notice of a public hearing before
the commission on a nomination shall be sent by regular mail not less than four
(4) nor more than twenty (20) days prior to the hearing, addressed to the
person making the nomination and to each owner of record of the nominated
historic landmark or to each owner of record of property within a nominated
historic district or preservation district. Written notice shall also be posted
at least twenty four (24) hours prior to the public hearing. Failure to send
notice by mail to any property owner entitled to notice shall not invalidate
any proceedings in connection with the proposed designation if the address of
such person is not known or does not appear in the county auditor's records.
Written notice shall specify the date, time, place, and purpose of the public
hearing and shall include a visual depiction of the area included within any
proposed district.
      3.   Public Hearing Before Commission: Within sixty (60) days after
receipt of a completed nomination in proper form, the commission shall hold a
public hearing. Oral or written testimony concerning the significance of the
nominated historic landmark, historic district or preservation district shall
be taken from any interested person. The commission may request expert
testimony, consider staff reports, present its own evidence, and conduct such
other investigation as it deems necessary regarding compliance of the nominated
historic landmark, historic district or preservation district with the review
criteria set forth in this section. The owner of any nominated historic
landmark or of any property within a nominated historic district or
preservation district shall be allowed a reasonable opportunity to present
evidence and to cross examine expert witnesses.
      4.   Determination By Commission: Within thirty (30) days after the close
of the public hearing, the commission shall make a determination upon the
evidence as to whether the nominated historic landmark, historic district or
preservation district meets one or more of the historic significance criteria.
If the nominated landmark or district meets one or more of the criteria, the
commission will recommend designation. If the nominated landmark or district
does not meet the criteria, the commission will not recommend designation. The
commission's determination shall be made in an open meeting by resolution of
the commission and shall be reduced to the form of a written report that states
the findings of fact constituting the basis of the determination. The
commission's recommendation of designation and its supporting report shall be
filed with the planning, programming, and zoning commission. The commission
shall also transmit to the planning, programming, and zoning commission a
proposed ordinance or amendment establishing such historic landmark, historic
district or preservation district and describing its location and boundaries by
address and legal description.
      5.   Review By SHPO: A proposed ordinance or amendment of designation of
a historic landmark, historic district or preservation district shall be
submitted to SHPO for review and comment within three (3) days of the
commission's transmittal of same to the planning, programming and zoning
commission. The city shall make any SHPO recommendations available to the
public for viewing during normal working hours at a city government place of
public access.
      6.   Action By Planning, Programming And Zoning Commission: Within sixty
(60) days of receipt of the commission's recommendation, report, and proposed
ordinance or amendment, the planning, programming and zoning commission shall
report to the city council with respect to the relation of such nomination to
the general development plan, zoning ordinance, proposed public improvements,
and any plans for the renewal of the area involved. A written copy of this
report shall be submitted to the historic preservation commission. Upon
submission of the report of the planning, programming and zoning commission, or
upon expiration of the sixty (60) day period, whichever occurs first, the
matter shall be transmitted to the city council. If the planning, programming
and zoning commission alters the area of the proposed district as approved by
the historic preservation commission, the planning, programming and zoning
commission must submit a description of the altered proposed area to SHPO and
the historic preservation commission for further review and recommendations
concerning the altered proposed district.
      7.   Removal From Consideration: At any time before the city council
adopts an ordinance or amendment to establish a proposed historic district or
preservation district, the proposal shall be withdrawn from further
consideration if a petition objecting to such proposal is filed with the city
clerk containing the signatures of at least fifty percent (50%) of the owners
of property within the proposed new district or, in the case of an existing
district that is proposed to be enlarged, at least fifty percent (50%) of the
owners of property within the existing district and the area proposed to be
added thereto.
      8.   Action By City Council:
         a.   Upon receiving the recommendation of SHPO and upon either the
receipt of the recommendation of the planning, programming, and zoning
commission or the lapse of the sixty (60) day period referred to in subsection
D6 of this section, the city council shall conduct a public hearing on the
ordinance or amendment establishing the proposed historic landmark, historic
district or preservation district.
         b.   After public hearing, the city council may approve or disapprove
the ordinance or amendment or return the nomination to the historic
preservation commission for modification. A modified nomination shall require
compliance with the same procedure for designation as set forth above, with the
following exceptions:
            (1)   Unless substantial modifications are proposed, the public
hearing before the historic preservation commission may be waived by said
commission. For purposes of this subsection D8b(1), a "substantial
modification" to a proposed historic district or preservation district is one
that would add or remove an area of land that is at least ten percent (10%) of
the area originally proposed for inclusion in such district, or that would, in
the reasonable judgment of the commission, alter the purpose or integrity of
such district, and a "substantial modification" to a proposed historic landmark
is one that would, in the reasonable judgment of the commission, alter the
purpose or integrity of such landmark.
            (2)   Only the property owners affected by the city council's
proposed modification shall be notified by mail of the proposed modification
prior to action by the historic preservation commission.
         c.   City council approval of the ordinance or amendment shall
constitute designation of the historic landmark, historic district or
preservation district. The designation will be forwarded to the city clerk for
recording, and the designation and nomination will be filed in the city's
property inventory.
   E.   Amendment Or Rescission Of Designation: Any designation made pursuant
to this chapter may be amended or rescinded in the same manner as the original
designation was made. An amendment of designation of a historic landmark, a
historic district or a preservation district may occur if one or more
buildings, structures, objects or sites are added. A rescission of designation
may occur if the historic landmark, historic district or preservation district
no longer meets the historic significance criteria due to subsequent discovery
of information relating to the historic significance or due to destruction of
the historic property by act of God or other unintentional cause.
   F.   Extension Of Time: Whenever any provision of this chapter requires any
governmental body, within a prescribed period of time, to make a determination
or to perform any act in relation to a nomination, the applicant and the
commission may extend such period by mutual written consent of the involved
parties, which consent shall be kept on file with the official record of the
proceedings. (Ord. 5057, 7-11-2011)
9-8-7: ALTERATION OF HISTORIC LANDMARKS, HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND PRESERVATION
DISTRICTS:
   A.   Any proposed alteration or activity that will affect a historic
landmark or a building, structure, object, or site within a historic district
or preservation district, and for which a regulated permit or site plan
approval is required, or which affects any landscaping, door, window, or
screen, regardless of whether a regulated permit is required, shall be reviewed
by the commission. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this chapter shall
be construed to prevent ordinary maintenance or repair of any historic landmark
or structure or site within a historic district or preservation district where
such maintenance or repair does not involve a material change in appearance
that necessitates issuance of a regulated permit or site plan approval or that
does not involve a material change in appearance as a result of any alteration
of or to landscaping or a door, window, or screen.
   B.   The commission shall also review any proposed demolition for which a
regulated permit is required if the proposed demolition affects a building,
structure, object, or site that has not been locally designated as a historic
landmark but: 1) is then under review pursuant to a filed nomination for
designation, 2) has been listed on the national register of historic places, 3)
for which a national register of historic places nomination is on file with the
commission, or 4) has been determined as eligible for listing on the national
register of historic places by SHPO.
   C.   No regulated permit or site plan approval with respect to a historic
landmark or a building, structure, object, or site within a historic district
may be issued prior to review by the commission and filing of a certificate of
no material effect, a certificate of appropriateness, or a certificate of
economic hardship. Upon review, the commission shall have authority to deny any
application or to grant any of such certificates.
   D.   In cases where a historic landmark or a building, structure, object, or
site within a historic district or preservation district may be located in an
area subject to review by a separate board, commission or other body in the
city of Waterloo, the commission shall, in connection with making its final
decision, hear and consider the recommendations of such board, commission, or
body. (Ord. 5057, 7-11-2011)
9-8-8: PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW; ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATES OF NO MATERIAL EFFECT,
APPROPRIATENESS, AND ECONOMIC HARDSHIP:
   A.   Application For A Regulated Permit: Application for a regulated permit
shall be made to the appropriate city official. The application shall state
whether the proposed alteration or activity is to be done to a historic
landmark or to a building, structure, object, or site in a historic district or
preservation district. The appropriate city official shall verify the
determination and notify the applicant if an application for a certificate of
appropriateness is required. An application for certificate of appropriateness
shall be on a form prescribed by the city, shall be completed, and shall
include all supporting drawings, sketches, photographs, and/or other
information the city determines is necessary for considering the application,
including, but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Site plan or improvement plan, with proposed building elevations
(drawn to scale).
      2.   Photographs of existing and historic building conditions.
      3.   Product literature and specifications.
      4.   Samples of proposed materials and colors.
Upon filing of an application for a certificate of appropriateness, the
appropriate city official shall promptly transmit the application and all
supporting materials to the commission. The commission will not consider an
incomplete application.
   B.   Alterations Not Requiring A Regulated Permit: If any proposed
alteration or activity that will affect a historic landmark or building,
structure, object, or site within a historic district or preservation district
does not require a regulated permit but does affect landscaping or any door,
window, or screen for a door or window, then an application for a certificate
of appropriateness shall be filed with the city's planning, programming and
zoning office, which shall transmit the application to the commission.
   C.   Certificate Of No Material Effect: A certificate of no material effect
may be issued if an application for a certificate of appropriateness
demonstrates compliance with design standards and guidelines, provided that the
proposed work or activity will not result in a material change in appearance
or, with respect to preservation districts only, will result in an alteration
that is not visible from the public right of way. The commission may, in its
bylaws, delegate to one or more commission officers, a committee of the
commission, or to an appropriately qualified city employee the responsibility
for determining whether the application qualifies for a certificate of no
material effect. If the application so qualifies, the recommendation of the
designated persons or committee shall be placed on a consent agenda for action
at the next regularly scheduled commission meeting. The applicant shall be
notified of the time, date, and place of said meeting. A certificate of no
material effect shall be issued within three (3) days of the meeting at which
the application is approved, and the commission shall notify the city official
from whom the applicant sought a regulated permit. If an application does not
demonstrate eligibility for issuance of a certificate of no material effect,
then the commission shall review the application as an application for a
certificate of appropriateness, and the applicant shall be notified of the
time, date, and place of the meeting at which the application will be
considered.
   D.   Certificate Of Appropriateness:
      1.   Review Criteria: A certificate of appropriateness may be issued if:
a) an application demonstrates compliance with design standards and guidelines
and b) the proposed work or activity in creating, changing, destroying, or
affecting the exterior features of the building, structure, object, or site
upon which the work is to be done will not have a substantial adverse effect on
the aesthetic, historic, or architectural significance and value of either the
property itself or of the neighboring properties in a historic district or
preservation district.
      2.   Hearing: The commission shall hold a public hearing on an
application for a certificate of appropriateness within thirty (30) days after
the completed application was filed, unless the applicant consents to a later
hearing date. The applicant shall be notified of the time, date, and place of
the hearing. If a historic landmark or a building, structure, object, or site
within a historic district or preservation district is located in an area
subject to an independent body of review, such as Main Street Waterloo, the
commission will hear the recommendations, if any, of said independent body of
review and will consider the recommendations when making its final decision.
      3.   Action On Application: The commission may approve the application as
submitted, deny it as submitted, or approve it with conditions. The commission
may propose appropriate revisions to the application, which, if adopted, would
cause the commission to reconsider its denial. If the application is approved,
a certificate of appropriateness shall be issued within three (3) days of the
commission's decision. If the commission denies the application, it shall adopt
written findings and conclusions within thirty (30) days of the hearing date
and shall notify the applicant in writing of its denial. Within three (3) days
of its decision, the commission shall notify the city official from whom the
applicant sought a regulated permit, and in the event an application is
approved subject to conditions, the conditions shall be noted on the permit.
The applicant may modify the proposed project and shall have the right to
resubmit a modified proposal at any time, but if an application is denied, a
subsequent application for the same proposed alteration or activity may not be
submitted within ninety (90) days of the date of denial.
   E.   Certificate Of Economic Hardship: Following denial of an application
for a certificate of appropriateness, an applicant may apply for a certificate
of economic hardship on a form prescribed by the city.
      1.   Basis For Issuance: A certificate of economic hardship may be issued
if: a) an application for a certificate of appropriateness has been denied and
b) the commission determines after hearing that disapproval of the proposed
alteration or activity would deprive the property owner of all reasonable
economic return from the property. In considering whether the property owner
would be deprived of all reasonable economic return from the property, the
commission shall deny the certificate of economic hardship where the inability
to realize any reasonable economic return from the property has been created by
the property owner's conduct, including, but not limited to, neglect of
maintenance or absence of bona fide attempts to earn a reasonable economic
return from the property. The determination of economic hardship shall be made
solely with reference to the property, independent of the type of ownership or
the financial status or means of the owner.
      2.   Standards For Determination: The applicant shall provide any
information that the commission deems necessary for making a determination as
to whether the property yields or may yield a reasonable economic return, which
information may include, but is not limited to, the following:
         a.   The amount paid for the property, the date of purchase, and the
identity of the seller and description of the seller's relationship to the
applicant.
         b.   Any appraisals of the property made within the previous two (2)
years for purposes of selling, purchasing or financing.
         c.   The property's assessed value according to the two (2) most
recent assessments.
         d.   The amount of real estate taxes for the previous two (2) years
and proof that they have been paid.
         e.   The annual gross income from the property for the previous two
(2) years, itemized expenses for operation and maintenance, and cash flow
before and after debt service. This information need not be provided for any
single-family, owner occupied property.
         f.   Any state or federal income tax returns on or relating to the
property for the previous two (2) years.
         g.   The remaining balance on any financing secured by the property
and other debt service, if any, for the previous two (2) years.
         h.   Any listing of the property for sale or rent within the previous
two (2) years, including price asked and offers received.
         i.   Estimated cost of proposed work or activity and an estimate of
any additional cost that would be incurred in complying with the commission's
recommendation for conditions necessary for issuance of a certificate of
appropriateness.
         j.   The property's estimated market value in its current condition,
after completion of the proposed alteration or activity, after any changes
proposed by the commission, and, in the case of demolition, after renovation of
the property for continued use.
         k.   A report from a licensed professional architect or engineer with
demonstrated experience in historic property rehabilitation as to the
structural soundness of any structure and its suitability for rehabilitation.
         l.   A showing of the applicant's efforts at ongoing maintenance and
repair.
         m.   Proof of the applicant's efforts to obtain financing, tax
incentives, grants, or other funding sufficient to allow the applicant to
realize a reasonable economic return from the property.
      3.   Hearing: The commission shall hold a public hearing on an
application for a certificate of economic hardship within sixty (60) days after
the completed application was filed, unless the applicant consents to a later
hearing date. The applicant shall be notified of the time, date, and place of
the hearing. The commission shall receive and review evidence and hear
testimony from the applicant or witnesses. The commission may solicit expert
testimony or require that the applicant submit additional information.
      4.   Action On Application: Within thirty (30) days after closure of the
hearing, the commission shall complete its evaluation of economic hardship,
applying the standards set forth in subsection E2 of this section, and shall
adopt written findings and conclusions. The commission shall either approve the
issuance of a certificate of economic hardship or deny it. The commission shall
notify the applicant in writing of its decision and shall concurrently notify
the city official from whom the applicant sought a regulated permit. If the
application is approved, a certificate of economic hardship shall be issued
within three (3) days of the commission's decision.
   F.   Demolition:
      1.   Form Of Request: A request to demolish a historic landmark or a
building, structure, object or site in a historic district or preservation
district or a structure identified in subsection
9-8-7B of this chapter shall be submitted as an application for a certificate
of economic hardship, subject to all requirements and procedures set forth in
this section.
      2.   Preservation Plan: After an application is filed, the commission and
the applicant shall work together in good faith to develop a plan to preserve
or rehabilitate the property. If a mutually agreeable plan is developed, it
shall be reduced to writing, signed by the applicant, and approved by the
commission. Upon approval of a preservation plan, the commission shall issue a
certificate of appropriateness that incorporates the plan by reference, and a
copy of the plan shall be appended to the certificate. If a preservation plan
is not developed within sixty (60) days after the application is filed, the
commission shall either deny the application or shall table the application for
an additional period of six (6) months. At the end of the six (6) month period,
the commission shall approve the application and issue a certificate of
economic hardship if it is satisfied that the applicant has made continuing,
bona fide, and reasonable efforts to locate a purchaser to preserve,
rehabilitate or restore the property, and that such efforts have been
unsuccessful. Notwithstanding the failure to develop a preservation plan, and
at any time before conclusion of the six (6) month period, the commission may
approve the application and issue a certificate of economic hardship if the
commission is satisfied that there is no reasonable likelihood that the
applicant or some other person is willing to preserve, rehabilitate or restore
the property or to purchase the property for such purpose.
      3.   Property Acquired By Eminent Domain: If the property proposed to be
demolished is a property that was acquired by eminent domain, after
consideration of all the circumstances the commission may at any time waive the
requirements of this section and issue a consent to demolish, which shall have
the effect of a certificate of economic hardship.
      4.   Bond Required: The applicant shall post a bond in an amount set by
the commission or the city council, as appropriate, to ensure complete removal
of debris left by the demolition process and to compensate for any damage done
to adjacent properties. The bond shall be posted before the approved
certificate is issued. The commission may waive this requirement with respect
to any property owned by a federal, state, or local governmental body.
      5.   Documentation: In connection with approval of any certificate of
economic hardship under this subsection F, the commission may require as a
condition to issuance of a certificate the allowance of a reasonable period in
which to make a photographic, video or other suitable record of the property
before it is demolished.
   G.   Future Effect: The commission's approval of a particular type of
alteration, work, or activity, whether as a result of issuance of a certificate
of no material effect, a certificate of appropriateness, or otherwise, shall
not establish a binding precedent for future commission action, but it may be
an additional factor to be considered in subsequent reviews involving the same
or a similar type of alteration, work, or activity.
   H.   Time Limitation: Each certificate of no material effect, certificate of
appropriateness, or certificate of economic hardship shall expire and become
null and void if the alteration for which the certificate was issued is not
initiated within one year of its issuance. (Ord. 5057, 7-11-2011)
9-8-9: APPEALS FROM COMMISSION ACTION:
   A.   Appeal To City Council: An aggrieved party may appeal the commission's
final action to the city council by filing a written notice of appeal with the
city clerk within thirty (30) days after the date of notice of the commission's
action. The notice of appeal shall identify the applicant, the date of the
commission's action, and the ground of the appeal. The city council shall
consider only the record of the action before the commission, and no new matter
may be considered. The city council may affirm or reverse the commission's
action, or may refer the matter back to the commission for such further action
as may be appropriate. The city clerk shall give written notice of the city
council's decision within seven (7) days of same to the appellant and the
commission.
   B.   Appeal To District Court: An appellant who is not satisfied by the
decision of the city council may file an appeal in the district court for Black
Hawk County within sixty (60) days of the city council's decision.
   C.   Standard Of Review: In any appeal, the city council or the district
court, as the case may be, shall consider whether the commission exercised its
powers and followed the guidelines established by law and by this chapter and
whether the commission's action was patently arbitrary and capricious. (Ord.
5057, 7-11-2011)
9-8-10: REMEDY OF DANGEROUS CONDITIONS:
   A.   Except for emergencies as determined by the building official pursuant
to city ordinance, city enforcement agencies and departments shall give the
commission at least thirty (30) days' notice of any proposed order for
remedying conditions determined to be dangerous to life, health, or property
that may affect the exterior features of any historic landmark or any building,
structure, object, or site in a historic district or preservation district.
   B.   The commission shall have the power to require that alterations not
adversely affect the exterior features of a building or structure in cases
where the danger to life, health, or property may be abated without detracting
from its exterior features. In such cases, it shall be the responsibility of
the commission and the city enforcement agency or department to cooperate with
the property owner in an attempt to achieve a preservation plan whereby the
dangerous conditions will be corrected with minimal adverse impact on exterior
features. Such plan shall be approved by the commission and shall be signed by
the chair of the commission, the property owner, and the head of the city
enforcement agency or department.
   C.   If a preservation plan acceptable to the commission, the property
owner, and the city enforcement agency or department cannot be reached within
thirty (30) days or a period of time acceptable to the city enforcement agency
or department, the agency or department shall proceed to issue and enforce its
proposed order. (Ord. 5057, 7-11-2011)
9-8-11: COMPLIANCE WITH CERTIFICATE:
   A.   After a certificate has been issued and a regulated permit, if
required, is granted to the applicant, the building official or other local
authority shall from time to time inspect the work authorized and shall take
such action as is necessary to enforce compliance with the certificate.
Commission members may from time to time inspect the authorized work, from the
public right of way, and shall advise the building official or other local
authority as necessary to enforce compliance with the certificate.
   B.   If it is found that such work is not being carried out in accordance
with the certificate, the building official shall issue a stop work order.
   C.   Any change in appearance at variance with that authorized by the
certificate shall be deemed a violation of these regulations. (Ord. 5057, 7-11-
2011)
9-8-12: FEES:
Upon submission of an application for a certificate of appropriateness or a
certificate of economic hardship, or upon the filing of an appeal to the city
council from final commission action, the applicant shall pay a fee in an
amount determined from time to time by resolution of the city council. Filing
fees received for applications and appeals shall be deposited in a dedicated
fund for historic preservation activities and used solely for such purposes.
(Ord. 5057, 7-11-2011)
9-8-13: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to disobey, omit, neglect, or
refuse to comply with any provision of this chapter. Upon conviction, such
person shall be guilty of a municipal infraction. Each day that a violation is
permitted to exist constitutes a separate offense.
   B.   The remedies provided for in this section shall be cumulative and not
exclusive and shall be in addition to any other remedies provided by law. (Ord.
5057, 7-11-2011)
9-8-14: COMPLIANCE WITH EXISTING ZONING REGULATIONS:
Any new structure in a historic district or preservation district shall conform
to all setback requirements of the zone in which it is to be built or moved. If
a historic landmark or a structure in a historic district or preservation
district has lost fifty percent (50%) or more of its assessed value due to
fire, explosion, act of God, or other natural disasters, it may be placed upon
its original foundation or the site of the original foundation, and it shall be
reconstructed as near as possible to the original exterior design. If the
original foundation or site thereof is found to be noncompliant with the zoning
ordinance in effect at the time, reconstruction shall require approval by the
board of adjustment prior to beginning construction. (Ord. 5057, 7-11-2011)
CHAPTER 9
MANUFACTURED HOMES
SECTION:
9-9-1: Conformance To Regulations
9-9-1: CONFORMANCE TO REGULATIONS:
   A.   Location Within Approved Trailer Court: All manufactured homes located
in an approved trailer court shall conform to the guidelines established by the
manufacturer for installation.
   B.   Location Outside An Approved Trailer Court: When located outside an
approved trailer court, manufactured homes shall conform to all the following:
      1.   The lot location shall be part of a subdivision as recorded in the
office of the county recorder of Black Hawk County. The owner of record shall
be the owner of the manufactured home or the contractor placing the
manufactured home on the lot.
      2.   An owner of a manufactured home shall not locate a manufactured home
on a rented lot unless the lot is located in an approved trailer park.
      3.   The lot size of a manufactured home shall have a minimum width of
fifty feet (50') and a minimum total square footage of six thousand (6,000)
square feet.
         a.   Exception: A manufactured home may be located on any lot or plot
of official record as of the effective date hereof regardless of its area or
width.
      4.   The entrance of a manufactured home shall face the street on which
the manufactured home has its address, or the front entrance may be located in
the front quarter of the structure.
      5.   A manufactured home located outside an approved trailer park and
which is not placed on a standard perimeter foot/foundation system shall be
equipped with a skirting system that simulates a brick or block foundation.
(Ord. 4727, 9-20-2004)
CHAPTER 10
MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
9-10-1: Definitions
9-10-2: Conflicting Provisions
9-10-3: Location Restrictions
9-10-4: Supervision Over Park Operation
9-10-5: License And Permit Required
9-10-6: Inspections
9-10-7: Conditions Of License Or Permit
9-10-8: Revocation Of License
9-10-9: Design Standards And Specifications
9-10-10: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
9-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed
to them:
ANNEX: An accessory structure attached and appurtenant to a mobile home other
than a porch or entryway that exceeds four feet by six feet (4' x 6') in size.
DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME: A mobile home which does not have a flush toilet and a
bath or shower, including travel trailers.
ENGINEER: A registered professional engineer, licensed in the state.
GOOD MORAL CHARACTER: Any person who has such financial standing and good
reputation as will satisfy the officials of the city that he will comply with
this chapter and all other laws, provisions of this code and other city
ordinances and regulations applicable to his operation of a mobile home park. A
person will not be considered of good moral character if he has been convicted
of a felony less than five (5) years prior to his date of application.
HEALTH BOARD OR BOARD OF HEALTH: The agency acting as the health department for
the city 1 .
HEALTH OFFICER: The legally designated authority for the enforcement of this
chapter, or his authorized representative.
INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME: A mobile home which has a flush toilet and a bath or
shower.
INSPECTOR: The legally designated inspection authority of the health officer,
or his authorized representative.
LICENSEE: Any person licensed to operate and maintain a mobile home park under
the provisions of this chapter.
MOBILE HOME: Any vehicle or similar portable structure having been constructed
with wheels, whether or not such wheels have been removed, and having no
foundation other than wheels, jacks or skirtings and so designed, constructed
and used for dwelling or sleeping purposes.
MOBILE HOME PARK: Any plot of ground upon which two (2) or more mobile homes,
occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located regardless of whether
or not a charge is made for such accommodation.
MOBILE HOME SPACE: A plot of ground within a mobile home park designed for the
accommodation of one mobile home.
PARK: A mobile home park.
PERMITTEE: Any person to whom a permit is issued to maintain or operate a
mobile home park under the provisions of this chapter.
TRAILER: Any vehicle or similar portable structure having been constructed with
wheels, whether or not such wheels have been removed, and having no foundation
other than wheels, jacks or skirtings and so designed or constructed so it is
not used for dwelling or sleeping purposes. (Ord. 2449, 3-18-1968; amd. Ord.
3148, 6-8-1981)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  4-1-1 of this code.
9-10-2: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict with a
provision of any zoning, building, fire, safety or health ordinances or this
city code existing on March 18, 1968, the provision which established the
higher standards for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of
the people shall prevail. In any case where a provision of this chapter is
found to be in conflict with a provision of any other ordinance or code of this
city existing on March 18, 1968, which establishes a lower standard for the
promotion and protection of the health and safety of the people, the provisions
of this chapter shall be deemed to prevail. (Ord. 2449, 3-18-1968)
9-10-3: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   A mobile home and/or travel trailer shall not be located upon a site or
space other than in a licensed mobile home park, except that a temporary permit
for a period of two (2) weeks may be granted by the health officer for
transient mobile homes and/or travel trailers; a fee of twenty five dollars
($25.00) shall be charged for a temporary permit.
   B.   One mobile home may be placed on a farm in an A-1 Agricultural District
in addition to an existing permanent dwelling, provided the occupant of said
mobile home is active in the conduct of agricultural operation of said farm.
Said farm shall not be less than eighty (80) acres in size. The above provision
is not to be construed to permit two (2) mobile homes on one farm. A mobile
home shall never be allowed to be a single principal dwelling on a farm. If the
occupant ceases to be active in the conduct of the agricultural operation of
the farm or if the property is rezoned to another classification other than A-
1 Agricultural District, the mobile home shall be removed immediately.
   C.   A mobile home and/or trailer may occupy a space or site other than a
licensed mobile home park if the mobile home and/or trailer will not be used as
a dwelling unit and only if a building permit has been issued for a permanent
structure for the use in question. This temporary occupancy shall be allowed
for a specific time period after recommendation of the building official and
approval of the city council. A fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) shall be
charged for a temporary permit. The mobile home and/or trailer shall be removed
immediately after final inspection of the permanent structure and any utilities
to the temporary mobile home and/or trailer shall be vacated or capped. (Ord.
2449, 3-18-1968; amd. Ord. 3148, 6-8-1981)
9-10-4: SUPERVISION OVER PARK OPERATION:
The licensee or permittee under this chapter, or a duly authorized attendant or
caretaker, shall be in charge at all times to keep the mobile home park, its
facilities and equipment in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition. The
attendant or caretaker shall be answerable, with the licensee or permittee, for
the violation of any provision of this chapter to which the licensee or
permittee is subject. (Ord. 2449, 3-18-1968)
9-10-5: LICENSE AND PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   When Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or
operate a mobile home park within the city, unless he shall first obtain a
license therefor, except that the maintenance or operation of a mobile home
park in existence on March 18, 1968, may be continued under a permit for such
period of time and under such conditions as are prescribed in this section.
   B.   Annual And Transfer Fees:
      1.   The annual fee for a license or permit required by this chapter
shall be fifteen dollars ($15.00).
      2.   The fee for the transfer of any license or permit issued pursuant to
this chapter shall be five dollars ($5.00).
   C.   Application For License:
      1.   Application for initial mobile home park license shall be filed with
the health officer. The application shall be in writing, signed by the
applicant, and shall include the following:
         a.   The name and address of the applicant.
         b.   The location and legal description of the mobile home park.
         c.   A complete plan of the park as prepared by an engineer in
conformity with the requirements for a mobile home park plan established in
this chapter, where applicable.
         d.   Plans and specifications of all buildings, improvements and
facilities constructed or to be constructed within the mobile home park.
         e.   Such further information as may be requested by the health
officer to enable him to determine if the proposed park will comply with legal
requirements.
      2.   The application and all accompanying plans and specifications shall
be filed in triplicate. The health officer shall investigate the applicant and
inspect the application and the proposed plans and specifications. If the
applicant is of good moral character and the proposed mobile home park will,
when constructed or altered in accordance with such plans and specifications,
be in compliance with all provisions of this chapter, and all other applicable
provisions of this code and other city ordinances and statutes, the health
officer shall approve the application, and upon completion of the park
according to the plans, shall issue the license sought.
   D.   Surety Bond Required:
      1.   Before any license or permit required by this chapter may be issued,
the applicant therefor must furnish a bond in the form and conditioned as
prescribed by the health department, with good and sufficient sureties to be
approved by the city council and conditioned for the faithful observance of the
laws of the state, the provisions of this code and other ordinances of the
city; the amount of said bond shall be five thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
      2.   Before the transfer of any license or permit issued pursuant to this
chapter, the applicant therefor must furnish a bond in the form and conditioned
as prescribed by the health department, with good and sufficient sureties to be
approved by the city council and conditioned for the faithful observance of the
laws of the state, the provisions of this code and other ordinances of the
city; the amount of the bond shall be five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). (Ord.
2449, 3-18-1968)
9-10-6: INSPECTIONS:
As a condition for issuance of a license, the applicant therefor must give his
consent for the inspector to enter upon the premises of the park, without a
warrant, to inspect for conformance to the applicable provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 2449, 3-18-1968)
9-10-7: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE OR PERMIT:
   A.   Posting: The license certificate or temporary permit issued pursuant to
this chapter shall be conspicuously posted in the office of or on the premises
of the mobile home park at all times.
   B.   Renewal Of License: Upon application in writing by a licensee for
renewal of a license issued pursuant to this chapter, and upon payment of the
annual license fee, the health officer shall issue a certificate renewing the
license for another year if mobile home park has been operated satisfactorily
and the standards of this chapter have been maintained.
   C.   Transfer Of License: Upon application in writing for the transfer of a
license issued pursuant to this chapter and payment of the transfer fee, the
health officer shall transfer the license if the transferee is of good moral
character, if the mobile home park has been operated satisfactorily, and the
standards of this chapter have been maintained.
   D.   Scope, Term Of Permit:
      1.   A permit, upon written request therefor, may be issued by the health
officer for every mobile home park in existence on March 18, 1968, permitting
the park to be maintained and operated during the period ending one year after
March 18, 1968, without being subject to certain provisions of this chapter,
which provisions are hereinafter expressly stated to be inapplicable to
existing mobile home parks.
      2.   The term of a permit issued pursuant to this chapter may be
extended, upon written request, for not to exceed one additional period of one
year, if:
         a.   The permittee shall have filed application for a license in
conformity with this chapter within ninety (90) days after March 18, 1968.
         b.   The permittee is of good moral character, and the park plans and
specifications accompanying the application for the license comply with all
provisions of this chapter and all other applicable provisions of this code and
other city ordinances and statutes.
         c.   The permittee shall have diligently endeavored to make the
existing park conform fully to the plans and specifications submitted with the
application.
         d.   Failure to make the existing park conform fully to such plans and
specifications shall have been due to causes beyond the control of the
permittee.
   E.   Restrictions On Operation Without Permit:
      1.   A mobile home park that is in existence on March 18, 1968, but does
not meet the minimum requirements of this chapter, shall be allowed to continue
its operation as a nonconforming use, but cannot expand, remodel or change its
mode of operation without updating the mobile home park to the requirements of
this chapter.
      2.   All provisions and conditions of this chapter are applicable to
nonconforming parks except subsections
9-10-9B2, B4, B7 and B10 of this chapter. (Ord. 2449, 3-18-1968)
9-10-8: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The health officer may revoke any license issued pursuant to sections
9-10-5,
9-10-6 and
9-10-7 of this chapter when the licensee has been found guilty by a court of
competent jurisdiction of violating any provision of this chapter. After such
conviction, the license shall be reissued if the circumstances leading to
conviction have been remedied and the park is being maintained and operated in
full compliance with law. (Ord. 2449, 3-18-1968)
9-10-9: DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Location; Fences: A mobile home park may be located in any district as
provided by the zoning ordinance. Where any boundary of a park directly abuts
property which is improved with a permanent residential building located within
twenty five feet (25') of the boundary or directly abuts unimproved property
which may under existing laws and regulations be used for permanent residential
construction, a fence, wall or hedge shall be provided along such boundary.
   B.   Park Plan; Design Requirements: The mobile home park shall conform to
the following requirements:
      1.   The park shall be located on a well drained site, properly graded to
ensure rapid drainage and free from stagnant pools of water with an adequate
storm sewer and connected to nearest storm sewer facilities available that will
handle the flow.
      2.   Each mobile home park shall provide individual mobile home spaces
and each such space shall be clearly defined or delineated. Each individual
space shall have an area not less than the minimum area requirements of the
zoned district in which the park is located, but in no case shall the area
requirements for each individual space be less than three thousand (3,000)
square feet per space, and a width of not less than thirty feet (30').
      3.   Each mobile home space shall be provided with a paved patio of at
least eighty (80) square feet.
      4.   Mobile homes shall be so located on each space that there shall be
at least a twenty foot (20') clearance between mobile homes; however, with
respect to mobile homes parked end-to-end, the end-to-end clearance may be less
than twenty feet (20') but not less than fifteen feet (15'). In determining the
clearance requirements, an annex shall be considered an integral part of the
mobile home; however, where the annex is less than half of the length of the
mobile home to which it is attached, the clearance may be less than twenty feet
(20'), but not less than fifteen feet (15'). No mobile home shall be located
closer than fifteen feet (15') from any building within the mobile home park or
from any property line bounding the mobile home park.
      5.   All mobile home spaces shall have access to a roadway of not less
than eighteen feet (18') in width, which shall have unobstructed access to a
public street, alley or highway and the sole vehicular access shall not be by
an alley, and all dead-end roadways shall include adequate vehicular space or
cul-de-sac.
      6.   Walkways not less than two feet (2') wide shall be provided from the
mobile home spaces to the roadways.
      7.   Walkways and roadways shall be all-weather surfaced, using a type of
construction approved by the city engineer. These walkways and roadways shall
be properly maintained and shall be lighted at night with electric lamps of not
less than sixty (60) watts each, spaced at intervals of not more than one
hundred feet (100'), or equivalent illumination as may be supplied by other
approved sources.
      8.   An electrical outlet supplying at least two hundred twenty (220)
volts shall be provided for each mobile home space with a minimum one hundred
(100) ampere individual service.
      9.   Each park shall provide service buildings to house such toilet,
bathing and other sanitation facilities as are prescribed in this section.
      10.   Each park shall provide one off-street automobile parking space,
with a minimum of one hundred eighty (180) square feet, for each mobile home
space, which may be included within the square foot requirements of the lot.
   C.   Water Supply: An adequate supply of pure water for drinking and
domestic purposes shall be supplied by pipes to all buildings and mobile home
spaces within the park, to meet the requirements of the park. Each mobile home
space shall be provided with a cold water tap of three-fourths inch (3/4") pipe
above the ground. An adequate supply of hot water shall be provided at all
times in the service buildings for all bathing, washing and cleansing
facilities.
   D.   Sanitation Facilities For Dependent Mobile Homes:
      1.   Each mobile home park which accommodates dependent mobile homes
shall be provided with the following sanitation facilities:
         a.   One flush toilet and one urinal for males; one flush toilet for
females; one lavatory for each sex; and one shower or bathtub with individual
dressing accommodations for each sex, for the first ten (10) mobile homes of
such type or any lesser number thereof so accommodated.
         b.   One additional flush toilet and one additional urinal for males;
one additional flush toilet for females; one additional lavatory for each sex;
and one additional shower or bathtub with individual dressing accommodations
for each sex, for each ten (10) mobile homes of such type or fractional number
thereof in excess of ten (10) mobile homes of such type so accommodated.
      2.   Each toilet and each shower or bathtub with individual dressing
accommodations, for which provision is made in subsection D1 of this section
shall be in a private compartment or stall.
      3.   The toilet and other sanitation facilities for males and females
shall be either in separate buildings or shall be separated, if in the same
building, by a soundproof wall. The sanitation facilities for males and females
shall be distinctly marked to denote the sex for which they are intended.
   E.   Service Buildings:
      1.   Service buildings housing sanitation facilities shall be permanent
structures complying with all applicable statutes, provisions of this code and
other city ordinances regulating buildings, electrical installations and
plumbing and sanitation systems.
      2.   The service buildings shall be well lighted at all times of the day
and night; shall be well ventilated with screened openings; shall be
constructed of such moisture-proof material, which may be painted woodwork, as
shall permit repeated cleaning and washing; and shall be maintained at a
temperature of at least sixty eight degrees Fahrenheit (68°F) during the period
from the October 1 to May 1. The floors of the service buildings shall be of
water-impervious material.
      3.   All service buildings and the grounds of the park shall be
maintained in a clean, sightly condition and kept free of any condition that
will menace the health of any occupant or the public or constitute a nuisance.
   F.   Sewage Disposal:
      1.   Waste from showers, bathtubs, flush toilets, urinals, lavatories and
slop sinks in service and other buildings within the mobile home park shall be
discharged into the public sewer system in compliance with applicable
provisions of this code and other city ordinances.
      2.   Each mobile home space shall be provided with a sewer at least four
inches (4") in diameter, which shall be connected to receive the waste from the
shower, bathtub, flush toilet, lavatory and kitchen sink of the mobile home
harbored in the space and having any or all of such facilities. The sewer in
each space shall be connected to discharge the home waste into the public sewer
system in compliance with applicable provisions of this code and other city
ordinances.
   G.   Garbage Receptacles And Disposal: Metal garbage cans with tight-fitting
covers shall be provided in quantities adequate to permit disposal of all
garbage and rubbish. Garbage cans shall be located not farther than three
hundred feet (300') from any mobile home space. The cans shall be kept in
sanitary condition at all times. Garbage and rubbish shall be collected and
disposed of as frequently as may be necessary to ensure that the garbage cans
shall not overflow.
   H.   Fire Prevention; Natural And Liquefied Petroleum Gas:
      1.   Standard fire hydrants shall be located within three hundred feet
(300') of each mobile home.
      2.   Natural and liquefied petroleum products may be used at individual
mobile home spaces, provided that the installations comply with the city gas
piping code.
      3.   No open fires shall be permitted at any place which may endanger
life or property. No fires shall be left unattended at any time. (Ord. 2449, 3-
18-1968)
9-10-10: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Pets At Large: No owner or person in charge of any dog, cat or other
pet animal shall permit it to run at large or commit any nuisance within the
limits of any mobile home park. (Ord. 2449, 3-18-1968)
CHAPTER 11
MOVING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
9-11-1: Definitions
9-11-2: Permit Requirements
9-11-3: Issuance, Denial Of Permit
9-11-4: Compliance With Regulations
9-11-5: Moving Operations
9-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed
to them:
BUILDING: A structure designed, built, or occupied as a shelter or roofed
enclosure for persons, animals, or property and used for residential, business
or mercantile storage, commercial, industrial, institutional, assembly,
educational or recreational purposes.
CITY ENGINEER: The city engineer of the city, or any of his authorized
personnel.
MOVING CONTRACTOR: Any person who engages in the work of moving in any way, or
raising, lowering, supporting by shoring, or upon temporary blocking, jacks, or
wedges, any building or other structure, or any part or parts thereof. (Rev.
Ord. 2429, Comp. 1941, p. H-4)
9-11-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall move any building over, along or
across any highway, street or alley in the city without first obtaining a
permit from the city engineer.
   B.   Application For Permit: A house mover shall submit his application for
a permit to move a building to the office of the city engineer prior to the
proposed time of moving. The application for the permit shall be made in
writing on forms provided by the city engineer and shall be filed in his
office, and shall set forth:
      1.   A description of the building proposed to be moved.
      2.   A legal description of the lot from which the building is to be
moved, giving the lot, block and tract number, if located in the city.
      3.   A legal description of the lot to which it is proposed such building
be moved, giving the lot, block and tract number, if located in the city.
      4.   The highways, streets and alleys over, along or across which the
building is proposed to be moved.
      5.   The proposed moving date and hours.
      6.   Any additional information which the city engineer shall find
necessary to a fair determination of whether a permit should be issued.
   C.   Consents Of Utilities To Be Filed With Application: With the
application for a permit to move a building, there shall be filed the consents
to the routing by the telephone company, the public service company, the fire
department, the police department and, where the route crosses railroad
property, consent must be obtained from the railroad involved.
   D.   Owner Apprised Of All Costs: The building mover shall, when applying
for a permit to move a building, submit evidence that the owner of the building
to be moved is aware of the total of all costs and charges that will be
incurred as a result of the moving, either through a signed agreement or a copy
of a notification to the owner signed by both the mover and the owner.
   E.   Permit; Fee:
      1.   The application for a permit to move a building shall be accompanied
by a permit fee in an amount set by resolution of the city council and
collected by the city engineer's office.
      2.   In the event a building or structure is moved from the city of
Waterloo, Iowa, to Cedar Falls, Iowa, or to Evansdale, Iowa, or if a building
or structure is to be moved from Cedar Falls, Iowa or Evansdale, Iowa, into
Waterloo, Iowa, the permit fee shall be equally divided between the city of
Waterloo, Iowa, and the other city involved. In either event, only one permit
fee shall be charged and the permit fee shall be paid to the city from which
the building or structure is being moved.
      3.   Work performed by the city shall not require a permit.
   F.   Permits Not Transferable: No license or permit issued pursuant to this
chapter shall be transferable. (Rev. Ord. 2429, Comp. 1941, p. H-4; amd. Ord.
2613, 11-13-1972; Ord. 3777, 3-25-1991)
9-11-3: ISSUANCE, DENIAL OF PERMIT:
   A.   Issuance Of Permit; Approval By City Officers: Upon the filing of the
application for a permit to move a building, and payment of the fee therefor,
and upon approval of the proposed move by the city forester, the traffic
engineer, the city engineer and the building official, the permit sought shall
be issued by the city engineer.
   B.   Denial Of Permit:
      1.   When, in the judgment of the traffic department, the city forester
or the city engineer, the proposed building movement will result in an undue
hazard to traffic, undue damage to streets, avenues, boulevards, thoroughfares,
highways, curbs, sidewalks, trees or other public or private property, or where
it shall be determined by the building official that the relocation of the
building is not in the best interests of the surrounding property owners due to
age of the structure or architecture not being compatible with the existing
buildings, the permit sought shall be denied and the reasons therefor endorsed
upon the application.
      2.   The permit to move a building shall also be denied in the event the
structure will not comply with the provisions of this code or other ordinances
of the city, or the laws of the state relating to electrical and plumbing
requirements of new structures, unless the owner has obtained a permit to
correct the violations; or, in the event the power or telephone company refuses
to consent to the operations; or, in the event the structure will not comply
with the zoning ordinances within the proposed location. (Rev. Ord. 2429, Comp.
1941, p. H-4)
9-11-4: COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS:
   A.   After a change of use has been made in a building, the reestablishment
of a prior use that would not have been legal in a new building of the same
type of construction is prohibited, unless all the provisions of the building
code, the city zoning ordinance and all other applicable provisions of this
code or other city ordinances are complied with. A change from one prohibited
use to another prohibited use shall be deemed a violation of the building code
and of the city zoning ordinance.
   B.   Each moved building shall be made to comply with all the provisions of
the city building code insofar as it is practical to do so. Sewer and water
supply shall be provided.
   C.   All work required to bring the building moved up to the standards
required by subsections A and B of this section shall be completed within six
(6) months from the date the building is moved. (Rev. Ord. 2429, Comp. 1941, p.
H-4)
9-11-5: MOVING OPERATIONS:
   A.   Parking On Private Property: It shall be unlawful for any person to
stop, stand or park a house, equipment, material or structure upon privately
owned property without first having obtained the consent of the owner or person
in charge of the privately owned property. Upon complaint of the owner or
person in charge of the privately owned property, failure of the person to
obtain the consent is declared to be an offense.
   B.   Direct Routes To Be Used; Hours; Lighting And Barricades 1 : In no case
shall paved streets, alleys, avenues or public grounds be used for the purpose
of moving any building unless they are in the most practical direct route from
the place of origin to the place of destination. The movement, when commenced,
shall be continued from sunrise to three o'clock (3:00) P.M., day by day, until
completed, with the least possible obstruction to the thoroughfares occupied.
No building shall be allowed to remain overnight on any street, crossing, or
intersection, or so near thereto to prevent easy access to any fire hydrant;
nor shall any building be allowed to unnecessarily obstruct traffic. Barricades
of a type meeting the city engineer's specifications as to size and
illumination shall be kept in a conspicuous place at each end and side of the
building during the night, which shall be between sunset and sunrise.
   C.   Utilities:
      1.   Protection: Whenever in moving any building it shall be necessary to
cut or move any electric light, telephone, traffic, or other wire, pole, or
fixture, the owner of the wire, pole or fixture shall have the right to cut or
move it or supervise the cutting or moving, and a written notice shall be given
by the moving permittee to the owner at least forty eight (48) hours before the
time required for cutting or moving, specifying the place; the person who
requests the cutting or removal; and the time when the cutting or removal will
be required. The expense of cutting or removing the wires, poles or fixtures,
or supervising the cutting or removal shall be paid by the moving contractor,
if the owner of the wires, poles or fixtures has done the work in accordance
with the provisions of this code or other ordinances of the city relating
thereto. If the owners of the wires, poles, or fixtures have failed to comply
with the provisions of this code or other ordinances of the city relating
thereto, then the owner shall bear all expenses of cutting or removing the
same.
      2.   Abandoned Utility Connections: All abandoned water, sewer, electric
and other service connections shall be plugged and sealed, and releases
therefor shall be secured from the utility companies and from the city agencies
involved; permission shall be required in any case, whether the building is
moved or demolished, and releases shall be obtained prior to applying for the
permit to move a building. (Rev. Ord. 2429, Comp. 1941, p. H-4)
 
Notes
  1. See also sections
1 7-1-3,
  7-2A-6 and
  7-3-10 of this code.
ARTICLE A. HOUSE MOVERS
SECTION:
9-11A-1: License Required; Application And Contents
9-11A-2: Insurance And Bond Requirements
9-11A-3: License Fee, Term
9-11A-4: Issuance, Revocation Of License
9-11A-5: Report Damages; Exception
9-11A-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION AND CONTENTS:
Any person intending to engage in the business of house moving shall file a
written application for a house mover's license in the office of the city
clerk. The application shall set forth, in such detail as may be required by
the city engineer, the applicant's qualifications and experience; the kind or
type of equipment he intends to use; whether or not he owns such equipment; and
such other information as may be necessary to determine his qualifications as a
house mover. (Rev. Ord. 2429, Comp. 1941, p. H-4)
9-11A-2: INSURANCE AND BOND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Insurance:
      1.   Before any license required by this article shall be issued, the
applicant therefor shall obtain and furnish to the city a certificate of
insurance for commercial general liability with minimum limits of one million
dollars/one million dollars ($1,000,000.00/$1,000,000.00) bodily injury and one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) property damage, this coverage to protect for
losses while the building to be moved is on the lot and not physically in the
street being pulled.
      2.   The applicant shall also furnish to the city a business automobile
insurance certificate with minimum limits of one million dollars/one million
dollars ($1,000,000.00/$1,000,000.00) bodily injury and one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) property damage, this coverage to include the vehicle pulling
the trailer and trailer with load, to protect for losses while the unit is
being moved on public streets and highways.
      3.   The insurance policies shall name the city as an additional named
insured, and shall provide that the policy cannot be revoked, canceled or
modified in any way until the city has been notified by certified mail at least
ten (10) days prior to the proposed action.
   B.   Bond: The applicant for a license required by this article shall file
with his application a bond with an approved corporate surety in the penal sum
of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), conditioned that all work done under the
license shall be done in a good and workmanlike manner, in accordance with all
provisions of this code and all other ordinances of the city relating to house
moving, and that the applicant will pay to the city or to any person injured,
all damages for injuries to person or property, including, but not limited to,
damages to any street, curb, sidewalk or to any other public property caused by
negligence, fault or mismanagement of the applicant or person in his employ, or
due to any other cause in doing any work under the license or a permit for such
work. (Rev. Ord. 2429, Comp. 1941, p. H-4; amd. Ord. 3619, 2-6-1989)
9-11A-3: LICENSE FEE, TERM:
The annual fee for a license required by this article shall be one hundred
dollars ($100.00), and the license shall expire on May 1 of each year. (Rev.
Ord. 2429, Comp. 1941, p. H-4)
9-11A-4: ISSUANCE, REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Issuance Of License: Upon payment of the proper license fee and the
filing of the bond and insurance policy as required by this article, and after
obtaining the approval of the city engineer, the city clerk shall issue to the
applicant therefor the license required by this article.
   B.   Revocation Of License: Any person who shall, in the application for a
license required by this article, or for a house moving permit, make any false
or untrue statement, or who shall violate the provisions of this chapter, or
who shall fail to pay any cost or expense incurred by the city as a result of
his operations, or whose bond or insurance as required by this article has been
canceled or otherwise terminated, shall, upon such finding, have his license
revoked. (Rev. Ord. 2429, Comp. 1941, p. H-4)
9-11A-5: REPORT DAMAGES; EXCEPTION:
The house mover shall report any damage done to any street, avenue, highway,
boulevard, alley, sidewalk, curb, tree, telephone or light poles or wires, or
to any other public or private property, except property owned by the house
mover or to the structure being moved, to the city engineer within twelve (12)
hours from and after the occurrence causing the damage. (Rev. Ord. 2429, Comp.
1941, p. H-4)
CHAPTER 12
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS 1
SECTION:
9-12-1: Code Adopted
9-12-2: Amendments To Code
9-12-3: Nuisances Declared; Procedures
9-12-4: Liability Of City Officers And Employees
9-12-5: Assessment, Collection Of Expenses
 
Notes
1 1. Iowa Code § 368.9.
9-12-1: CODE ADOPTED:
A certain document, which is on file in the office of the city clerk, being
marked and designated as Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings,
1997 Edition, published in 1997 by the International Conference of Building
Officials, be and the same is hereby adopted as the dangerous building code of
the city, for regulation of buildings or structures which from any cause
endanger the life, limb, health, morals, property, safety or welfare of the
general public or their occupants; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of such Uniform Code for the
Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, 1997 Edition, published in 1997 by the
International Conference of Building Officials, on file in the office of the
city clerk, is hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully
set out in this section. (Ord. 4300, 5-26-1998)
9-12-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
!!! Subsection 401.2.3.3.1 of the Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous
Buildings is hereby repealed; and a new subsection 401.2.3.3.1 of the Uniform
Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings is hereby enacted in lieu thereof
as follows:
Section 401--General
401.2 Notice and order.
3.3.1 If the building official has determined that the buildings or structure
must be repaired, the order shall require that all required permits be secured
therefor and the work physically commenced within 30 days and completed within
such time as the building official shall determine is reasonable under all of
the circumstances.
Subsection 401.2.3.3.3 of the Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous
Buildings is hereby repealed; and a new subsection 401.2.3.3.3 of the Uniform
Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings is hereby enacted in lieu thereof
as follows:
Section 401--General
401.2 Notice and order.
3.3.3. If the building official has determined that the building or structure
must be demolished, the order shall require that the building be vacated within
30 days of the order; that all required permits be secured therefor within 60
days; and that the demolition be completed within 90 days.
Subsection 401.2.6 is hereby added to the Uniform Code for the Abatement of
Dangerous Buildings as follows:
Section 401.2.6
The building official shall order the dangerous structure demolished after
ninety (90) days. If any person having any record of title or legal interest in
the building has not appealed the order of the building official as outlined in
section 401.2.5 of the Uniform Code for Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, said
order to demolish shall be issued in writing and published giving property
parcel number, street address, and listed owner. If after three (3) days from
date of publishing there is no response to order to demolish the structure, the
order shall be sent to the proper city agency to carry out said order. The cost
of said order shall be paid and recovered according to section 802 of the
Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings and title 9 of the code
of ordinances of the city.
 
Section 701.1, General, of the Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous
Buildings is hereby repealed, and a new section 701.1, General, is hereby
enacted in lieu thereof as follows:
Section 701.1 General. After any order of the building official or the board of
appeals made pursuant to this code shall have become final, no person to whom
any such order is directed shall fail, neglect or refuse to obey any such
order. Any such person who fails to comply with any such order shall be in
violation of a municipal infraction and punished as follows:
 
First offense  $200.00
Second offense $500.00
Third offense  $750.00
 
The above civil penalties shall be in addition to any other appropriate relief
ordered by the court to abate or cease the violation or to authorize the city
to abate or correct the violation.
   (Ord. 4300, 5-26-1998; amd. Ord. 4393, 11-1-1999)
9-12-3: NUISANCES DECLARED; PROCEDURES:
   A.   Nuisance Declared; Remedial Action Required: All dangerous buildings
are hereby declared to be public nuisances, and shall be repaired, vacated or
demolished as provided in this chapter.
   B.   Members Of Fire And Police Departments To Report Dangerous Buildings:
The members of the fire department and police department shall make a report in
writing to the building official of all buildings or structures which, in their
opinion, are, may be or are suspected of being dangerous buildings. The reports
must be delivered to the building official within twenty four (24) hours of the
discovery of such buildings by any member of the fire department or police
department.
   C.   Duty Of City Attorney To Prosecute Cases: With respect to dangerous
buildings, the city attorney shall:
      1.   Prosecute all persons failing to comply with the terms of the
notices given by the building official.
      2.   Appear at all hearings before the building official in regard to
dangerous buildings.
      3.   Bring suit to collect all city liens, assessments or costs incurred
by the building official in repairing or causing to be vacated or demolished
any dangerous building.
      4.   Take such other legal action as is necessary to carry out the terms
and provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 4300, 5-26-1998)
9-12-4: LIABILITY OF CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
No officer, agent or employee of the city shall be personally liable for any
damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of any act required
or permitted in the discharge of his duties under this chapter. Any suit
brought against any officer, agent or employee of the city as a result of any
act required or permitted in the discharge of his duties under this chapter
shall be defended by the city attorney until the final determination of the
proceedings therein. (Ord. 4300, 5-26-1998)
9-12-5: ASSESSMENT, COLLECTION OF EXPENSES:
The expense of the removal or destruction of any dangerous building shall be
levied as a special tax against the real property upon which the building is
situated, and collection shall be made in the same manner as are other taxes.
(Ord. 4300, 5-26-1998)
CHAPTER 13
CONDOMINIUM CONVERSION
SECTION:
9-13-1: Conversion Of Existing Structure To Horizontal Property Regime
(Condominium)
9-13-2: Filing Of "As Built" Plans
9-13-3: Compliance With City Building Code Requirements
9-13-4: Inspection Of Structure
9-13-5: Issuance Of Certificate Of Compliance Or Noncompliance
9-13-6: Failure To Comply With Conversion Requirements
9-13-7: Violation; Penalty
9-13-1: CONVERSION OF EXISTING STRUCTURE TO HORIZONTAL PROPERTY REGIME
(CONDOMINIUM):
When all of the owners of real property or all of the lessees under a lease of
real property desire to submit a parcel of real property located in the city,
upon which an existing building or structure is located, to the horizontal
property regime established by Iowa Code chapter 499B, the declarant shall file
the declaration of the horizontal property regime with the city building
official of the city of Waterloo at least sixty (60) days before the
declaration is recorded in the office of the Black Hawk County recorder, to
enable the city to establish that the existing building or structure meets the
applicable building code requirements of the city, as specified in Iowa Code
section 499B.20 and as described in this chapter. (Ord. 5092, 2-13-2012)
9-13-2: FILING OF "AS BUILT" PLANS:
In compliance with all requirements of Iowa Code chapter 499B and this chapter,
the declarant shall submit to the city building official at the time of filing
of the declaration a full and exact copy of "as built" plans of the existing
structure in sufficient detail to allow the city building official to determine
whether the existing structure meets the building code requirements of the city
which are in effect as of the date of the proposed conversion of the existing
structure to the horizontal property regime, together with the applicable
condominium conversion fee, in such amount as shall be established from time to
time by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 5092, 2-13-2012)
9-13-3: COMPLIANCE WITH CITY BUILDING CODE REQUIREMENTS:
In order to satisfy the requirements of this chapter, the existing building or
structure which is to be submitted to the horizontal property regime must meet
all city building code requirements which are in effect as of the date of
filing of the declaration with the city building official. (Ord. 5092, 2-13-
2012)
9-13-4: INSPECTION OF STRUCTURE:
Upon the filing of such a declaration with the city building official, the city
building official or designee shall promptly conduct all necessary site and
building inspections to determine whether the existing structure meets all city
building code requirements described in this chapter. (Ord. 5092, 2-13-2012)
9-13-5: ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE OR NONCOMPLIANCE:
Within sixty (60) days of the date of filing of such declaration with the city
building official, the city building official shall either:
   A.   Issue to the declarant a certificate of compliance of the existing
structure, if the existing structure meets all city building code requirements
described in this chapter; or
   B.   Issue to the declarant a certificate of noncompliance of the existing
structure, stating with specificity wherein the existing structure does not
meet the city building code requirements described in this chapter. (Ord. 5092,
2-13-2012)
9-13-6: FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH CONVERSION REQUIREMENTS:
Upon determining that a declarant has filed a declaration with the county
recorder without first having received from the building official a certificate
of compliance as provided in this chapter, the building official shall issue a
notice of noncompliance to the declarant. The declarant will have sixty (60)
days from the date of issuance of said notice in which to comply with the
requirements of this chapter. If a certificate of compliance is not secured
within the sixty (60) day period, the building official shall record a notice
of noncompliance in the office of the Black Hawk County recorder. (Ord. 5092,
2-13-2012)
9-13-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who violates the requirements of this chapter shall be guilty of a
municipal infraction, subject to prosecution and penalty in accordance with
section
1-3-2 of this code. (Ord. 5092, 2-13-2012)
CHAPTER 14
HOUSING COOPERATIVE CONVERSION
SECTION:
9-14-1: Conversion Of Existing Structure To Housing Cooperative
9-14-2: Filing Of "As Built" Plans
9-14-3: Compliance With City Building Code Requirements
9-14-4: Inspection Of Structure
9-14-5: Issuance Of Certificate Of Compliance Or Noncompliance
9-14-6: Failure To Comply With Conversion Requirements
9-14-7: Violation; Penalty
9-14-1: CONVERSION OF EXISTING STRUCTURE TO HOUSING COOPERATIVE:
When an entity that is formed as a housing cooperative under Iowa Code chapter
499A desires to acquire title to real property located in the city to establish
a housing cooperative with respect to an existing building or structure on such
property, the housing cooperative shall file a written statement of intent to
acquire the real property with the city building official of the city of
Waterloo at least sixty (60) days before the deed conveying the real property
to the housing cooperative is recorded in the office of the Black Hawk County
recorder, to enable the city to establish that the existing building or
structure meets the applicable building code requirements of the city, as
described in this chapter. (Ord. 5209, 4-21-2014)
9-14-2: FILING OF "AS BUILT" PLANS:
The housing cooperative shall submit to the city building official at the time
of filing of the statement of intent a full and exact copy of "as built" plans
of the existing structure in sufficient detail to allow the city building
official to determine whether the existing structure meets the building code
requirements of the city which are in effect as of the date of filing of the
statement of intent, together with the applicable housing cooperative
conversion fee, in such amount as shall be established from time to time by
resolution of the city council. (Ord. 5209, 4-21-2014)
9-14-3: COMPLIANCE WITH CITY BUILDING CODE REQUIREMENTS:
In order to satisfy the requirements of this chapter, the existing building or
structure which is to be converted to a housing cooperative must meet all city
building code requirements which are in effect as of the date of filing of the
statement of intent with the city building official. (Ord. 5209, 4-21-2014)
9-14-4: INSPECTION OF STRUCTURE:
Upon the filing of such a statement with the city building official, the city
building official or designee shall promptly conduct all necessary site and
building inspections to determine whether the existing structure meets all city
building code requirements described in this chapter. (Ord. 5209, 4-21-2014)
9-14-5: ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE OR NONCOMPLIANCE:
Within sixty (60) days of the date of filing of such statement with the city
building official, the city building official shall either:
   A.   Issue to the housing cooperative a certificate of compliance of the
existing structure, if the existing structure meets all city building code
requirements described in this chapter; or
   B.   Issue to the housing cooperative a certificate of noncompliance of the
existing structure, stating with specificity wherein the existing structure
does not meet the city building code requirements described in this chapter.
(Ord. 5209, 4-21-2014)
9-14-6: FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH CONVERSION REQUIREMENTS:
Upon determining that a housing cooperative has filed, or has caused to be
filed, a deed with the county recorder with respect to real property on which
an existing building or structure is located, for purposes of converting such
building or structure to a housing cooperative, without first having received
from the building official a certificate of compliance as provided in this
chapter, the building official shall issue a notice of noncompliance to the
housing cooperative. The housing cooperative will have sixty (60) days from the
date of issuance of said notice in which to comply with the requirements of
this chapter. If a certificate of compliance is not secured within the sixty
(60) day period, the building official shall record a notice of noncompliance
in the office of the Black Hawk County recorder. (Ord. 5209, 4-21-2014)
9-14-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who violates the requirements of this chapter shall be guilty of a
municipal infraction, subject to prosecution and penalty in accordance with
section
1-3-2 of this code. (Ord. 5209, 4-21-2014)
TITLE 10
ZONING
Zoning Regulations   1
CHAPTER 1
ZONING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Zoning Ordinance Adopted
10-1-1: ZONING ORDINANCE ADOPTED:
The provisions of Ordinance 2479, adopted February 3, 1969, and all amendments
thereof, which ordinance constitutes the zoning ordinance of the city, is
hereby expressly saved from repeal and shall continue in full force and effect
as though the ordinance had been set out in full in this code. (Ord. 3257, 1-
17-1983)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
General Subdivision Provisions   1
Definitions   2
Platting Procedures   3
Required Improvements   4
Design Standards   5
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Short Title
11-1-2: Policy
11-1-3: Purpose
11-1-4: Authority
11-1-5: Jurisdiction
11-1-6: Enactment
11-1-7: Interpretation, Conflict And Separability
11-1-8: Saving Clause
11-1-9: Amendments
11-1-10: Conditions
11-1-11: Resubdivision Of Land
11-1-12: Vacation Of Plats
11-1-13: Variances
11-1-14: Enforcement, Violations And Penalties
11-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
These regulations shall hereafter be known, cited and referred to as the
WATERLOO SUBDIVISION AND PLATTING REGULATIONS. (Ord. 2997, 11-20-1978)
11-1-2: POLICY:
   A.   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city to consider the
subdivision of land and the subsequent development of the subdivided plat as
subject to the control of the city pursuant to the official master plan of the
city for the orderly, planned, efficient and economical development of the
city.
   B.   Land to be subdivided shall be of such character that it can be used
safely for building purposes without danger to health or peril from fire, flood
or other menace, and land should not be subdivided until available public
facilities and improvements exist and proper provision has been made for
drainage, water, sewerage and capital improvements such as schools, parks,
recreation facilities and transportation facilities.
   C.   The existing and proposed public improvements proposed within a plat
should conform to and be properly related to the proposals shown in the
comprehensive plan, official zoning map and the capital improvements program of
the city and it is intended that these regulations should supplement and
facilitate the enforcement of the provisions and standards contained in
building and housing codes, zoning ordinances, comprehensive plan, official
zoning map and land use plan and capital improvements program of the city.
(Ord. 2997, 11-20-1978)
11-1-3: PURPOSE:
These regulations are adopted for the following purposes:
   A.   To protect and provide for the public health, safety and general
welfare of the city.
   B.   To guide the future growth and development of the city, in accordance
with its plans and policies.
   C.   To provide adequate light, air and privacy to secure safety from fire,
flood and other danger, and to prevent overcrowding of the land and undue
congestion of population.
   D.   To protect the character and the social and economic stability of all
parts of the city and to encourage the orderly and beneficial development of
all parts of the city.
   E.   To protect and conserve the value of land throughout the city and the
value of buildings and improvements upon the land, and to minimize the
conflicts among the uses of land and buildings.
   F.   To guide public and private policy and action in order to provide
adequate and efficient transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks,
playgrounds, recreation and other public requirements and facilities.
   G.   To provide the most beneficial relationship between the uses of land
and buildings and the circulation of traffic throughout the city, having
particular regard to the avoidance of congestion in the streets and highways,
and the pedestrian traffic movements appropriate to the various uses of land
and buildings, and to provide for the proper location and width of streets and
building lines.
   H.   To establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivisions and resubdivisions, in order to further the orderly layout and use
of land; and to ensure proper legal descriptions and monumenting of subdivided
land.
   I.   To ensure that public facilities are available and will have a
sufficient capacity to serve the proposed subdivision.
   J.   To prevent the pollution of air, streams, and ponds; to assure the
adequacy of drainage facilities; to safeguard the water table; and to encourage
the wise use and management of natural resources throughout the city in order
to preserve the integrity, stability and beauty of the community and the value
of the land. (Ord. 2997, 11-20-1978)
11-1-4: AUTHORITY:
By authority of ordinance, the city council, adopted pursuant to the powers and
jurisdictions vested through Iowa Code chapter 354 and other applicable laws,
statutes, ordinances and regulations of the state, the city council does hereby
exercise the power and authority to review, approve and disapprove plats for
subdivision of land within the corporate limits of the city or unincorporated
areas within two (2) miles of the corporate limits of the city. (Ord. 2997, 11-
20-1978)
11-1-5: JURISDICTION:
   A.   These subdivision regulations shall apply to all subdivisions of land,
as defined herein, located within the corporate limits of the city, or within
the two (2) mile extraterritorial review area established by Iowa Code and city
ordinance.
   B.   No land shall be subdivided within the corporate limits or the two (2)
mile extraterritorial area of the city until the following conditions are
satisfied:
      1.   The subdivider or his agent shall submit a preliminary plat of the
parcel to the planning, programming and zoning commission;
      2.   Obtain a recommendation of the preliminary plat by the planning,
programming and zoning commission and approval of the preliminary plat by the
city council;
      3.   The same process as outlined in subsections B1 and B2 of this
section is completed for the final plat of said parcel; and
      4.   The approved final plat is filed with the county recorder.
   C.   No building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be issued for any
parcel or plat of land which was created by subdivision after the effective
date of, and not in conformity with, the provisions of these subdivision
regulations, and no excavation of land or construction of any public or private
improvements shall take place or be commenced except in conformity with the
regulations. (Ord. 2997, 11-20-1978)
11-1-6: ENACTMENT:
In order that land may be subdivided in accordance with these purposes and
policy, these subdivision regulations are hereby adopted. (Ord. 2997, 11-20-
1978)
11-1-7: INTERPRETATION, CONFLICT AND SEPARABILITY:
   A.   Interpretation: In their interpretation and application, the provisions
of these regulations shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the
promotion of public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   Conflict With Public And Private Provisions:
      1.   Public Provisions: These regulations are not intended to interfere
with, abrogate or annul any other ordinance, rule or regulation, statute or
other provision of law.
Where any provision of these regulations imposes restrictions different from
those imposed by any other provision of these regulations or any other
ordinance, rule or regulation, or other provision of law, whichever provisions
are more restrictive or impose higher standards shall control.
      2.   Private Provisions: These regulations are not intended to abrogate
any easement, covenant or any other private agreement or restriction; provided,
that where the provisions of these regulations are more restrictive or impose
higher standards or regulations than such easement, covenant or other private
agreement or restriction, the requirements of these regulations shall govern.
Where the provisions of the easement, covenant or private agreement or
restriction imposes duties and obligations more restrictive, or higher
standards than the requirements of these regulations, or the determinations of
the city in approving a subdivision or in enforcing these regulations, and such
private provisions are not inconsistent with these regulations or
determinations thereunder, then such private provisions shall be operative and
supplemental to these regulations and determinations made thereunder.
   C.   Separability: If any part or provision of these regulations or
application thereof to any person or circumstances is adjudged invalid by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such judgment shall be confined in its
operation to the part, provision or application directly involved in all
controversy in which such judgment shall have been rendered and shall not
affect or impair the validity of the remainder of these regulations or the
application thereof to other persons or circumstances. The city council hereby
declares that it would have enacted the remainder of these regulations even
without any such part, provision or application. (Ord. 2997, 11-20-1978)
11-1-8: SAVING CLAUSE:
These regulations shall not be construed as abating any action now pending
under, or by virtue of, prior existing subdivision regulations, or as
discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accruing or about to
accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, or as waiving any right of
the city under any section or provision existing at the time of adoption of
these regulations, or as vacating or annulling any rights obtained by any
person, by lawful action of the city except as shall be expressly provided for
in these regulations. (Ord. 2997, 11-20-1978)
11-1-9: AMENDMENTS:
For the purpose of providing public health, safety and general welfare, the
city council may from time to time amend the provisions imposed by these
subdivision regulations. Public hearings on all proposed amendments shall be
held by the planning, programming and zoning commission and city council in the
manner prescribed by law. (Ord. 2997, 11-20-1978)
11-1-10: CONDITIONS:
Regulations of the subdivision of land and the attachment of reasonable
conditions to land subdivision is an exercise of valid police power delegated
by the state of Iowa. The developer has the duty of compliance with reasonable
conditions laid down by the planning, programming and zoning commission and
city council for design, dedication, improvement and restrictive use of the
land so as to conform to the physical and economical development of the city
and to the safety and general welfare of the future plot owners in the
subdivision and of the community at large. (Ord. 2997, 11-20-1978)
11-1-11: RESUBDIVISION OF LAND:
   A.   Procedure For Resubdivision: For any change in a map of an approved or
recorded subdivision plat, if such change affects any street layout shown on
such map, or area reserved thereon for public use, or any lot line, or if it
affects any map or plan legally reached prior to the adoption of any
regulations controlling subdivisions, such parcel shall be reviewed by the
planning, programming and zoning commission and approved by the city council by
the same procedure, rules and regulations as for a subdivision.
   B.   Procedure For Subdivisions Where Future Resubdivision Indicated:
Whenever a parcel of land is subdivided and the subdivision plat shows one or
more lots containing more than one acre of land and there are indications that
such lots will eventually be resubdivided into small building sites, the
planning, programming and zoning commission and city council may require that
such parcel of land allow for the future opening of streets and the ultimate
extension of adjacent streets. Easements providing for the future opening and
extension of such streets may be made a requirement of the plat. (Ord. 2997,
11-20-1978)
11-1-12: VACATION OF PLATS:
   A.   Any plat or any part of any plat may be vacated by the owner of the
premises, at any time before the sale of any lot therein, by a written
instrument, to which a copy of such plat shall be attached, declaring the same
to be vacated.
   B.   Such an instrument shall be reviewed by the planning, programming and
zoning commission and approved by the city council in like manner as plats of
subdivisions. The city council may reject any such instrument which abridges or
destroys any public rights in any of its public uses, improvements, streets or
alleys.
   C.   Such an instrument shall be executed, acknowledged or approved and
recorded or filed in like manner as plats or subdivisions; and being duly
recorded or filed shall operate to destroy the force and effect of the
recording of the plat so vacated, and to divest all public rights in the
streets, alleys and public grounds, and all dedications laid out or described
in such plat. (Ord. 2997, 11-20-1978)
11-1-13: VARIANCES:
   A.   General: Where the city council finds that extraordinary hardships or
practical difficulties may result from strict compliance with these regulations
and/or the purposes of these regulations may be served to a greater extent by
an alternative proposal, it may approve variances to these subdivision
regulations so that substantial justice may be done and the public interest
secured; provided, that such variance shall not have the effect of nullifying
the intent and purpose of these regulations; and further provided the city
council shall not approve variances unless it shall make findings based upon
the evidence presented to it in each specific case that:
      1.   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health or welfare or injurious to adjacent properties;
      2.   The conditions upon which the request for a variance is based are
unique to the property for which the variance is sought and are not applicable
generally to other property;
      3.   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict letter of these regulations are carried out;
      4.   The variances will not in any manner vary the provisions of the
zoning ordinance, comprehensive plan or official street plan.
   B.   Conditions: In approving variances, the city council may require such
conditions as will, in its judgment, substantially secure the objectives of the
standards or requirements of these regulations.
   C.   Procedures: A petition for any such variance shall be submitted in
writing by the subdivider at the time when the preliminary plat is filed for
the consideration of the planning, programming and zoning commission. The
petition shall state fully the grounds for the application and all of the facts
relied upon by the petitioner. (Ord. 2997, 11-20-1978)
11-1-14: ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   General:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the city planning director to enforce these
regulations and to bring to the attention of the city attorney any violations
or lack of compliance herewith.
      2.   No owner, or agent of the owner, or any parcel of land or lot
located in a proposed subdivision shall transfer deed, or sell any such parcel
before a plat of such subdivision has been approved by the city council in
accordance with the provisions of these regulations and filed with the county
recorder. This shall only apply to portions of such proposed subdivisions and
shall not apply to the rights of partnerships or other involvement in the
development process.
      3.   The subdivision of any lot or any parcel of land, by the use of
metes and bounds description for the purpose of sale or transfer with the
intent of evading these regulations, shall not be permitted as in accordance
with Iowa Code chapter 354. All such described subdivisions shall be subject to
all of the requirements contained in these regulations and the Iowa Code.
      4.   No building permit shall be issued for the construction of any
building or structure located on a lot or plat subdivided or sold in violation
of the provisions of these regulations.
   B.   Violations And Penalties: Any person who fails to comply with, or who
violates any of these regulations, shall be guilty of a municipal infraction
and upon conviction thereof shall be punished in accordance with subsection
1-3-2C of this code.
   C.   Civil Enforcement: Appropriate actions and proceedings may be taken by
law or in equity to prevent any violation of these regulations, to prevent
unlawful construction, to recover damages, to restrain, correct or abate a
violation, to prevent illegal occupancy of a building structure or premises,
and these remedies shall be in addition to the penalties described above. (Ord.
2997, 11-20-1978; amd. Ord. 4441, 10-16-2000)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Usage
11-2-2: Definitions
11-2-1: USAGE:
   A.   For the purpose of these regulations, certain numbers, abbreviations,
terms and words used herein shall be used, interpreted and defined as set forth
in this chapter.
   B.   Unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary, words used in the
present tense include the future tense; words used in the plural number include
the singular; the word "herein" means "in these regulations"; the word
"regulations" means "these regulations".
   C.   A "person" includes a corporation, a partnership and an incorporated
association of persons such as a club; "shall" is always mandatory; a
"building" or "structure" includes any part thereof; "used" or "occupied" as
applied to any land or building shall be construed to include the words
"intended, arranged or designed to be used or occupied". (Ord. 2997, 11-20-
1978)
11-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
ABUTTING: Having property or district lines in common.
ADJACENT: Nearby not distant; may or may not have common property or district
lines.
ALLEY: A public or private right of way primarily designed to serve as
secondary access to the side or rear of those properties whose principal
frontage is on some other street.
APPLICANT: The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or his representative.
Consent shall be required from the legal owner of the premises.
BACKAGE STREET: Any street to be constructed by the developer or any existing
street on which development is designed to take place on both sides.
BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets and
public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights of way, shorelines of waterways, or
boundary lines of municipalities.
BLOCK LENGTH: The length of a block measured at the right-of-way lines and at
right angles to its length. If the width and length of the block are not equal
in distance, the length shall be considered to be the greater of the two (2).
BLOCK WIDTH: The width of a block measured at the right-of-way lines and at
right angles to its length. If the width and length of the block are not equal
in distance, the width shall be considered to be the lesser of the two (2).
BOND: Any form of security including a cash deposit, surety bond, collateral,
property or instrument of credit in an amount and form satisfactory to the city
attorney. All bonds shall be approved by the city council wherever a bond is
required by these regulations.
BUILDING: Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of persons,
animals, chattels or movable property of any kind, and includes any structure.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROGRAM: A proposed schedule of all future projects listed
in order of construction priority together with cost estimates and the
anticipated means of financing each project. All major projects requiring the
expenditure of public funds, over and above the annual local government's
operating expense, for the purchase, construction or replacement of the
physical assets for the community are included.
CENTRAL SEWERAGE SYSTEM: A community sewer system including collection and
treatment facilities established by the developer to serve a new subdivision in
an outlying area.
CENTRAL WATER SYSTEM: A private water company formed by a developer to serve a
new community development in an outlying area. It includes water treatment and
distribution facilities.
COLLECTOR ROADS: A road intended to move traffic from local roads to secondary
arterials. A collector road serves a neighborhood or large subdivisions and
should be designed so that no residential properties face onto it.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: A plan for development of the city, prepared and adopted by
the planning, programming and zoning commission, pursuant to state law and
including any part of such plan separately adopted and any amendment to such
plan, or parts thereof.
CONSTRUCTION PLAN: The maps or drawing accompanying a subdivision plat and
showing the specific location and design of improvements to be installed in the
subdivision in accordance with the requirements of the planning, programming
and zoning commission as a condition of the approval of the plat.
CUL-DE-SAC: A local street with only one outlet and having an appropriate
terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
DEPTH: The mean horizontal distances between the front and rear lot lines. In
the case of a corner lot, the lot depth is the greater of the mean horizontal
distances between the front lot lines and the respective side lot line opposite
each.
DEVELOPER: The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or his representative.
Consent shall be required from the legal owner of the premises.
EASEMENT: Authorization by a property owner for the use by another, and for a
specified purpose, of any designated part of his property.
ESCROW: A deposit of cash with the local government in lieu of an amount
required and still in force on a performance or maintenance bond. Such escrow
funds shall be deposited by the city in a separate account.
FINAL PLAT: The map or plan of record of a subdivision and any accompanying
material, as described in these regulations.
FLEXIBLE ZONING: Zoning which permits uses of land and density of buildings and
structures different from those which are allowed as of right within the zoning
district in which the land is situated. Flexible zoning applications shall
include, but not be limited to, all special permits and special uses, planned
unit developments, group housing projects, community unit projects, average
density or density zoning projects.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent portion
of the flood plain that must be reserved in order to discharge the 100-year
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one
foot (1') at any point, assuming equal conveyance reduction outside the channel
from the two (2) sides of the flood plain.
FLOODWAY FRINGE: That area of the flood plain outside the floodway, that on the
average is likely to be flooded once every one hundred (100) years (i.e., that
has a 1 percent chance of flood occurrence in any 1 year).
FRONTAGE: The side of a lot abutting on a street or way and ordinarily regarded
as the front of the lot, but it shall not be considered as the ordinary side of
a corner lot.
FRONTAGE STREET: Any street which separates a development from a major street
and which does not have developments occurring between the two (2) streets.
GRADE: The slope of a road, street or other public way, specified in percentage
terms.
HEALTH DEPARTMENT AND HEALTH OFFICER: The agency and person designated by the
city council to administer the health regulations of the city 1 .
HIGH DENSITY: Those residential zoning districts in which the density is equal
to or greater than one dwelling unit per six thousand (6,000) square feet.
HIGHWAY, LIMITED-ACCESS: A freeway or expressway providing a trafficway for
through traffic, in respect to which owners or occupants of abutting property
and other persons have no legal right to access to or from the same, except at
such points and in such manner as may be determined by the public authority
having jurisdiction over such trafficway.
IMPROVEMENTS: See definition of "Lot Improvement" or "Public Improvement".
INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM: A septic tank, seepage tile sewage disposal
system or any other approved sewage treatment device.
JOINT OWNERSHIP: Joint ownership among persons shall be construed as the same
owner; "constructive ownership" for the purpose of imposing subdivision
regulations.
LOCAL ROAD: A road intended to provide access to other roads from individual
properties and to provide right of way beneath it for sewer, water and storm
drainage pipes.
LOT: A tract, plot or portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended
as a unit for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of
ownership or for building development.
LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at the intersection of two (2) streets, the
interior angle of such intersection not exceeding one hundred thirty five
degrees (135°).
LOT IMPROVEMENT: Any building, structure, place, work of art or other object or
improvement of the land on which they are situated constituting a physical
betterment of real property or any part of such betterment. Certain lot
improvements shall be properly bonded as provided in these regulations.
LOW DENSITY: Those residential zoning districts in which the density is equal
or less than one dwelling unit per forty thousand (40,000) square feet.
LOWEST WATER ENTRY LEVEL: The elevation of a building or building complex,
below which the structure is designed and constructed to withstand the seepage
or passage of water into the structure and to withstand the hydrostatic
pressure of an elevated water table consistent with the Iowa Natural Resources
Council Administrative Code.
MAJOR SUBDIVISION: All subdivisions not classified as minor subdivision,
including any size subdivision requiring any new street or extension of the
local government facilities, or the creation of any public improvements.
MASTER PLAN: See definition of "Comprehensive Plan".
MEDIUM DENSITY: Those residential zoning districts in which the density is
between six thousand (6,000) and forty thousand (40,000) square feet per
dwelling unit.
MINOR SUBDIVISION: Any subdivision fronting on an existing street, not
involving any new street or road, or the extension of municipal facilities, or
the creation of any public improvements, and not adverse]y affecting flee
remainder of the parcel or adjoining property, and not in conflict with any
provision or portion of the comprehensive plan, official map, zoning ordinance
or these regulations.
NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION: A subdivision whose intended use is other than
residential, such as commercial or industrial. Such subdivision shall comply
with the applicable provisions of these regulations.
OFF-SITE: Any premises not located within the area of the property to be
subdivided, whether or not in the same ownership of the applicant for
subdivision approval.
OFFICIAL MAP: The map established by the city of Waterloo pursuant to law
showing the streets, highways, parks and drainage systems and setback lines
theretofore laid out, adopted and established by law, and any amendments or
additions thereto adopted by the city of additions thereto resulting from the
approval of subdivision plats by the planning, programming and zoning
commission and the subsequent filing of such approved plats.
ORDINANCE: Any legislative action, however denominated, of a local government
which has the force of law, including any amendment or repeal of any ordinance.
OVERALL DEVELOPMENT PLAN: A plan for the entire property owned by the developer
indicating the general layout of streets, lots, etc.
OWNER: Any person, group of persons, firm or firms, corporation or
corporations, or any other legal entity having legal title to or sufficient
proprietary interest in the land sought to be subdivided under these
regulations.
PERIMETER STREET: Any existing street to which the parcel of land to be
subdivided abuts on only one side.
PLANNING, PROGRAMMING AND ZONING COMMISSION: The city planning, programming and
zoning commission established in accordance with city ordinance 2 .
PRELIMINARY PLAT: The preliminary drawing or drawings, described in these
regulations, indicating the proposed manner or layout of the subdivision to be
submitted to the planning, programming and zoning commission and city council
for approval.
PRIMARY ARTERIAL: A road intended to move through traffic to and from such
major attractors as central business districts, regional shopping centers,
colleges and/or universities, military installations, major industrial areas
and similar traffic generators within the governmental unit; and/or as a route
for traffic between communities or large areas.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT: Any drainage ditch, roadway, parkway, sidewalk,
pedestrianway, tree, lawn, off-street parking area, lot improvement or other
facility for which the local government may ultimately assume the
responsibility for maintenance and operation, or which may affect an
improvement for which local government responsibility is established. All such
improvements shall be properly bonded.
REGISTERED ENGINEER: An engineer properly licensed and registered in the state
of Iowa.
REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR: A land surveyor licensed and registered in the state
of Iowa.
RESUBDIVISION: A change in a map of an approved or recorded subdivision plat if
such change affects any street layout on such map or area reserved thereon for
public use, or any lot line; or if it affects any map or plan legally recorded
prior to the adoption of any regulations controlling subdivisions.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a street,
crosswalk, railroad, road, electric transmission line, oil or gas pipeline,
water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, shade trees or for another special
use. The usage of the term "right of way" for land platting purposes shall mean
that every right of way hereafter established and shown on a final plat is to
be separate and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining such right of way
and not included within the dimensions or areas of such lots or parcels. Rights
of way intended for streets, crosswalks, water mains, sanitary sewers, storm
drains, shade trees or any other use involving maintenance by a public agency
shall be dedicated to public use by the maker of the plat on which such right
of way is established.
ROAD CLASSIFICATION: For the purpose of providing for the development of the
streets, highways, roads, and rights of way in the governmental unit, and for
their future improvement, reconstruction, realignment and necessary widening,
including provision for curbs and sidewalks, each existing street, highway,
road and right of way, and those located on approved and final plats, have been
designated on the official map of the local government and classified therein.
The classification of each street, highway, road and right of way is based upon
its location in the respective zoning districts of the local government and its
present and estimated future traffic volume and its relative importance and
function as specified in the comprehensive plan of the local government. The
required improvements shall be measured as set forth for each street
classification on the official map.
ROAD, DEAD-END: A road or a portion of a street with only one vehicular traffic
outlet.
ROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTH: The distance between property lines measured at right
angles to the center lines of the street.
SALE OR LEASE: Any immediate or future transfer of ownership, or any possessory
interest in land, including contract of sale, lease, devise, estate succession,
or transfer, of an interest in a subdivision or part thereof, whether by metes
and bounds, deed, contract, plat, map, lease, devise, estate succession or
other written instrument.
SAME OWNERSHIP: Ownership by the same person, corporation, firm, entity,
partnership or unincorporated association; or ownership by different
corporations, firms, partnerships, entities or unincorporated associations, in
which a stockholder, partner or associate, or a member of his family, owns an
interest in each corporation, firm, partnership, entity or unincorporated
association.
SECONDARY ARTERIAL: A road intended to collect and distribute traffic in a
manner similar to primary arterials, except that these roads service minor
traffic-generating areas such as community commercial areas, primary and
secondary educational plants, hospitals, major recreational areas, churches and
offices, and are designed to carry traffic from collector streets to the system
of primary arterials.
SETBACK: The distance between a building and the street line nearest thereto.
STREET: See "Road Classification".
SUBDIVIDER: Any person: a) having an interest in land, causes it, directly or
indirectly, to be divided into a subdivision; or b) directly or indirectly
sells, leases or develops, or offers to sell, lease or develop, or advertise
for sale, lease or development, any interest, lot, parcel, site, unit or plat
in a subdivision; or c) engages directly or through an agent in the business of
selling, leasing, developing, or offering for sale, lease, or development, of a
subdivision or any interest, lot, parcel, site, unit or plat in a subdivision;
and d) is directly or indirectly controlled by, or under direct or indirect
common control with any of the foregoing.
SUBDIVISION: Any land, vacant or improved, which is divided or proposed to be
divided into three (3) or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots or interests
for the purpose of offer, sale or development, either on the installment plan
or upon any and all other plans, terms and conditions, including resubdivision.
Subdivision includes the division or development of residential and
nonresidential zoned land, whether by deed, metes and bounds description,
devise, intestacy, map, plat or other recorded instrument.
SUBDIVISION AGENT: Any person who represents, or acts for or on behalf of a
subdivider or developer, in selling, leasing or developing, or offering to
sell, lease or develop, any interest, lot, parcel, unit, site or plat in a
subdivision, except an attorney at law whose representation of another person
consists solely of rendering legal services.
SUBDIVISION, MAJOR: See definition of "Major Subdivision".
SUBDIVISION, MINOR: See definition of "Minor Subdivision".
SUBDIVISION PLAN: The final map or drawing, described in these regulations, on
which the subdivider's plan of subdivision is presented to the planning,
programming and zoning commission for approval and which, if approved, may be
submitted to the county clerk or recorder of deeds for filing.
TEMPORARY IMPROVEMENTS: Improvements built and maintained by a subdivider
during construction of the subdivision and prior to release of the performance
bond.
UTILITIES, PUBLIC (MUNICIPAL): Includes such services as sanitary sewer, water
and storm sewer as well as other services normally provided for by a city.
UTILITIES, QUASI-PUBLIC: Includes such services as electricity, telephone and
cable television as well as other similar services provided by other than local
government. (Ord. 2997, 11-20-1978)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  4-1-1 of this code.
2 1. See title 2, chapter 1 of this code.
CHAPTER 3
PLATTING PROCEDURES
SECTION:
11-3-1: General Procedures
11-3-2: Preliminary Plats
11-3-3: Final Plats
11-3-4: Signing And Recording Of Plats
11-3-1: GENERAL PROCEDURES:
   A.   Classification Of Subdivisions: Whenever any subdivision of land is
proposed, before any contract is made for the sale of any part thereof, and
before any permit for the erection of a structure in such proposed subdivision
shall be granted, the subdividing owner, or his authorized agent, shall apply
for and secure approval of such proposed subdivision in accordance with the
following procedure, which includes basically two (2) steps for a minor
subdivision and three (3) steps for a major subdivision:
      1.   Minor Subdivision:
   Preliminary plat;
   Final subdivision plat.
      2.   Major Subdivision:
   Overall development plan;
   Preliminary plat;
   Final subdivision plat.
   B.   Official Submission Dates: For the purpose of these regulations, for
both major and minor subdivisions, the date of the regular meeting of the
planning, programming and zoning commission at which the approval of the
subdivision plat is considered shall constitute the official submittal date of
the plat at which the statutory period required for formal approval or
disapproval of the plat shall commence to run.
   C.   Discussion Of Requirements: Before preparing the preliminary plat for a
subdivision, the applicant should discuss with the planning staff the procedure
for adoption of a subdivision plat and the requirements as to general layout of
streets and for reservations of land, street improvements, drainage, sewerage,
fire protection and similar matters, as well as the availability of existing
services. The staff shall also advise the applicant, where appropriate, to
discuss the proposed subdivision with those officials who must eventually
approve these aspects of the subdivision plat coming within their jurisdiction.
   D.   Classification: Tentative classification of the proposed subdivision
shall be made at this time by the staff as to whether the subdivision is a
major or minor subdivision as defined in these regulations. (Ord. 2997, 11-20-
1978)
11-3-2: PRELIMINARY PLATS:
The preliminary plat should be prepared by a licensed engineer, licensed land
surveyor, licensed architect or licensed landscape architect, at a convenient
scale not more than one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100').
   A.   Features: The preliminary plat shall show the following:
      1.   The location of property with respect to surrounding property and
streets; the names of adjoining developments; the names of adjoining streets.
      2.   The approximate location and dimensions of all boundary lines of the
property to be expressed in feet and decimals of a foot.
      3.   The location of existing streets, easements, water bodies, tree
masses, streams, and other pertinent features such as swamps, railroads,
buildings, parks, cemeteries, drainage ditches, bridges, etc.
      4.   The location and width of all existing and proposed rights of way
and street improvements, easements, alleys and other public ways and building
setback lines.
      5.   The location, dimensions and areas of all proposed or existing lots.
      6.   The location and dimensions of all property proposed to be set aside
for park or playground use, or other public or private reservation, with
designation of the purpose thereof.
      7.   The name and address of the owner or owners of land to be
subdivided, the name and address of the subdivider if other than the owner, and
the name of land surveyor.
      8.   The date of the map, approximate north point, scale and title of the
subdivision.
      9.   Names of all new streets to be approved by the planning, programming
and zoning commission.
      10.   Indication of the zoning of any lot and all uses other than
residential proposed by the subdivider.
      11.   All lots in each subdivision shall be consecutively numbered.
Outlots shall be lettered in alphabetical order within each block.
      12.   The lack of information under any item specified herein, or
improper information supplied by the applicant shall be cause for delay of a
preliminary plat.
      13.   Existing and proposed topography lines with intervals of not more
than two feet (2').
      14.   The location and sizes of existing and the location of proposed
water mains, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, street lights and gas mains.
   B.   Application Procedure And Requirements: The applicant shall assist the
planning staff in filing an application for approval of a preliminary plat. The
application shall:
      1.   Be made at the office of the planning, programming and zoning
commission together with a fee of forty dollars ($40.00) per plat plus one
dollar ($1.00) per lot.
      2.   The application shall advise as to the legal owner of the property,
the contract owner of the property, and, if any corporations are involved, a
complete list of all directors and officers of each corporation.
      3.   Be delivered to the planning office at least two (2) weeks prior to
a meeting of the planning, programming and zoning commission.
      4.   Include all land which the applicant proposes to subdivide and all
land immediately adjacent extending one hundred feet (100') therefrom, or of
that directly opposite thereto, extending one hundred feet (100') from the
street frontage of such opposite land, with the names of the adjoining
subdivisions.
      5.   An overall development plan shall accompany a preliminary plat which
is being submitted for only a portion of the land which is owned by the
requestor and could be subdivided in the future.
      6.   Be accompanied by a minimum of six (6) copies of the preliminary
plat as described in these regulations.
      7.   The planning staff shall refer the proposed preliminary plat to the
planning, programming and zoning commission for its review, recommendations and
report.
   C.   Preliminary Plat Approval: After the planning, programming and zoning
commission has reviewed the preliminary plat, any municipal recommendations and
testimony and exhibits submitted at the public meeting, the applicant shall be
advised of any required changes and/or additions. The commission shall
recommend approval, conditional approval or disapproval of the preliminary plat
within forty (40) days after the date of the regular meeting of the commission
at which the preliminary plat was first presented. Upon recommendation of the
planning, programming and zoning commission, the city council shall approve,
disapprove or conditionally approve the preliminary plat prior to submission of
the final plat to the planning, programming and zoning commission.
   D.   Effective Period Of Preliminary Approval: The approval of a preliminary
plat shall be effective for a period of one year from the time the city council
has approved said preliminary plat at the end of which time final approval on
the subdivision must have been obtained from the planning, programming and
zoning commission and the city council, although the plat need not yet be
signed and filed with the county recorder of deeds. Any plat not receiving
final approval within the period of time set forth herein shall be null and
void, and the developer shall be required to resubmit a new plat for
preliminary approval subject to all new zoning restrictions and subdivision
regulations.
   E.   Zoning Regulations: Every plat shall conform to existing zoning
regulations and subdivision regulations applicable at the time of proposed
final approval, except that any plat which has received preliminary approval
shall be exempt from any subsequent amendments to the zoning ordinance
rendering the plat nonconforming as to bulk or use, provided that final
approval is obtained within the one year period. (Ord. 2997, 11-20-1978)
11-3-3: FINAL PLATS:
   A.   General Requirements: The final subdivision plat shall be presented on
reproducible mylar and contain the information as required in subsection C of
this section, except for any changes or additions required by resolution of the
planning, programming and zoning commission, as shown on the preliminary plat.
All revision dates must be shown as well as the following:
      1.   Notation of any self-imposed restrictions, and locations of any
building lines proposed to be established in this manner, if required by the
planning, programming and zoning commission in accordance with these
regulations.
      2.   All monuments erected, corners, and other points established in the
field in their proper places in accordance with Iowa Code chapter 354.
   B.   Preparation: The final subdivision plat shall be prepared by a land
surveyor licensed by the state.
   C.   Information Required: All final plats shall include:
      1.   The boundaries of the property, the lines of all proposed streets
and alleys, with their widths and names, and the lines and dimensions of any
other portions intended to be dedicated to the public use.
      2.   All lot lines and an identification system for all lots and blocks
with figures showing their dimensions.
      3.   Building lines and easements for any rights of way provided for
public use, services or utilities, with figures showing their dimensions.
      4.   All dimensions, both linear and angular, necessary for locating
lots, tracts, or parcels of ground, streets, alleys and easements and the
boundaries of the subdivision; the linear dimensions are to be expressed in
feet and hundredths of a foot.
      5.   Radii, arc dimensions, points of tangent, central angles and curve
data for all curves.
      6.   The location of all permanent monuments set in the subdivision.
      7.   Name of the subdivision, location and extent of property subdivided,
points of the compass, scale of the plat, date and name of the land surveyor
platting the tract.
      8.   Certification under seal by a land surveyor, licensed under the laws
of Iowa, to the effect that the plat represents a survey made by him and that
all necessary survey monuments are correctly shown thereon.
      9.   Where private restrictions appear on a separate instrument,
reference to such instrument shall be made on the plat.
      10.   Certificate of survey.
   D.   Application Procedure And Requirements: Following the approval of the
preliminary plat the applicant, if he wishes to proceed with the subdivision,
shall file with the planning, programming and zoning commission an application
for final approval of a subdivision plat. The application shall:
      1.   Be made at the office of the planning, programming and zoning
commission, together with a fee of one dollar ($1.00) per lot plus the costs of
recording.
      2.   Include the entire subdivision, or section thereof, which derives
access from an existing state, county or local government highway.
      3.   Be accompanied by a minimum of six (6) copies of the subdivision
plat as described in these regulations.
      4.   Be in substantial conformance with the preliminary plat as approved.
      5.   Be presented to the planning staff at least two (2) weeks prior to a
regular meeting of the commission. The date of the regular meeting of the
commission at which the final approval of the plat is given shall constitute
the official submittal date of the final plat for the purposes of these
regulations.
      6.   Be accompanied by all formal irrevocable offers of dedication to the
public of all streets, local government uses, utilities, parks and easements,
in a form approved by the city attorney. The applicant shall deliver a full
covenant to all such lands in proper form for recording.
      7.   Be accompanied by the contract and waivers if required, in a form
satisfactory to the city attorney and the city engineer.
   E.   Vested Rights: No vested rights shall accrue to any plat by reason of
preliminary or final approval until signing of the resolution approving the
plat by the mayor and city clerk. All requirements, conditions, or regulations
adopted by the planning, programming and zoning commission applicable to the
subdivision or on all subdivisions generally shall be deemed a condition for
any subdivision prior to the time of the signing of the final plat by the mayor
and city clerk. Where the planning, programming and zoning commission and city
council has required the installation of improvements prior to signing of the
final plat, the city council shall not unreasonably modify the conditions set
forth in the final approval. (Ord. 2997, 11-20-1978)
11-3-4: SIGNING AND RECORDING OF PLATS:
   A.   Signing Of Plat:
      1.   When contract and waivers are required, the mayor and city clerk
shall endorse a resolution approving said plat after the contract and waivers
have been approved by the city council and all the conditions of the resolution
pertaining to the plat have been satisfied.
      2.   When installation of improvements is required, the mayor and city
clerk shall endorse a resolution approving said plat after all conditions of
the resolution have been satisfied and all improvements satisfactorily
completed. There shall be written evidence that the required public facilities
have been installed in a manner satisfactory to the city as shown by a
certificate signed by the city engineer and city planning director that the
necessary dedication of public lands and improvements has been accomplished.
   B.   Recording Of Plat: It shall be the responsibility of the city planning
director or his appointee to accompany the developer's agent to file the plat
with the county recorder of deeds' office. Simultaneously with the filing of
the plat, the city planning director shall record the agreement of dedication
together with such legal documents as shall be required to be recorded by the
city attorney. This recording shall be accomplished in a time period to be
determined by the developer, however, not to exceed nine (9) months from the
date of city council approval.
   C.   Sectionalizing Major Subdivision Plats: Prior to granting final
approval of a major subdivision plat, the planning, programming and zoning
commission may permit the plat to be divided into two (2) or more sections and
may impose such conditions upon the filing of the sections as it may deem
necessary to assure the orderly development of the plat. (Ord. 2997, 11-20-
1978)
CHAPTER 4
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Completion, Contracts And Waivers
11-4-2: Inspections
11-4-3: Maintenance
11-4-4: Deferral Or Waiver Of Required Improvements
11-4-5: Building Permits And Certificates Of Occupancy
11-4-1: COMPLETION, CONTRACTS AND WAIVERS:
   A.   Completion Of Improvements: Before the final plat is signed by the
mayor and city clerk, all applicants shall be required to complete, in
accordance with the city council's decision and to the satisfaction of the city
engineer, all the street, sanitary and other improvements including lot
improvements on the individual lots of the subdivision as required in these
regulations, specified in the final subdivision plat, and as approved by the
city council, and to dedicate same to the city, free and clear of all liens and
encumbrances on the property and public improvements thus dedicated.
   B.   Contract And Waivers: The planning, programming and zoning commission,
in its discretion, may waive the requirement that the applicant complete and
dedicate all public improvements prior to the signing of the subdivision plat,
and that, as an alternative, the applicant establish appropriate contract and
waivers at the time of application for final subdivision approval.
      1.   Temporary Improvement: The applicant shall build and pay for all
costs of temporary improvements required by the city and shall maintain same
for the period specified by the city.
      2.   Permanent Improvement: Where a subdivision or replat is proposed
along an existing right of way and the street is not improved to the minimum
requirements of the city engineer, contract and waivers shall accompany the
plat which provide for the future improvement for that portion of the street.
If the subdivision is on both sides of the existing street, the street shall be
required to be improved in accordance with this title.
   C.   Costs Of Improvements: All required improvements shall be made by the
applicant, at his expense, without reimbursement by the city or any improvement
district therein, unless otherwise requested prior to the approval by the
planning, programming and zoning commission of the preliminary plat.
   D.   Governmental Units: Governmental units to which these contract
provisions apply may file in lieu of said contract a certified resolution or
ordinance from officers or agencies authorized to act in their behalf, agreeing
to comply with the provisions of this section.
   E.   Failure To Complete Improvement: For subdivisions for which contracts
and waivers have been filed, if the improvements are not completed within the
period specified by the city, normally two (2) years but subject to the
recommendations of the city engineer and city council, the city may thereupon
require that all the improvements be installed regardless of the extent of the
building development at the time the contract is declared to be in default.
   F.   Acceptance Of Dedicated Offers: Acceptance of formal offers of
dedication of streets, public areas, easements and parks shall be by resolution
of the city council. The approval by the planning, programming and zoning
commission of a subdivision plat shall not be deemed to constitute or imply the
acceptance by the city of any street, easement or park shown on said plat until
such time as the city council formally accepts said plat. (Ord. 2997, 11-20-
1978)
11-4-2: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Final Inspection: The city engineer shall determine the method in which
the final inspection of the required improvements will be made to ensure their
satisfactory completion. If the city engineer finds, upon completion of the
inspection, that any of the required improvements have not been constructed in
accordance with the city's construction standards and specifications, the
applicant shall be responsible for completing the improvements. Wherever the
provision of improvements is covered by a contract and waiver agreement, the
applicant shall be financially liable for completing the improvements according
to specifications.
   B.   Release; Certificate Of Satisfactory Completion: The city council will
not accept dedication of required improvements, until the city engineer has
submitted a certificate stating that all required improvements have been
satisfactorily completed and until the applicant's engineer or surveyor has
certified to the city engineer through submission of detailed as-built survey
plats of the subdivisions, indicating location, dimensions, materials and other
information required by the planning, programming and zoning commission or city
engineer and that the layout of the line and grade of all public improvements
is in accordance with construction plans for the subdivision. Upon such
approval and recommendation, the city shall thereafter accept the improvements
for dedication in accordance with the established procedure. (Ord. 2997, 11-20-
1978)
11-4-3: MAINTENANCE:
   A.   The applicant shall be required to maintain all improvements on the
individual subdivided lots and provide for snow removal on streets and
sidewalks, if required, until acceptance of said improvements by the city
council. If there are any certificates of occupancy on a street not dedicated
to the city, the city may, on twelve (12) hours' notice, plow the street or
effect emergency repairs and charge same to applicant.
   B.   The applicant, for each subdivision submitted, shall be required to
furnish one good and sufficient maintenance bond for the installation of all
public improvements within the subdivision, including streets, curbs and
gutter, sanitary sewer and storm sewer, according to city specifications and
for the repairs necessitated by defects in materials or workmanship during a
time period not to exceed two (2) years from and after acceptance of the
completion of the improvements by the city council; and said bond shall be in
an amount considered adequate by the city engineer and in a form satisfactory
to the city attorney. (Ord. 2997, 11-20-1978; amd. Ord. 3077, 4-7-1980)
11-4-4: DEFERRAL OR WAIVER OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   The city council may defer or waive at the time of final approval,
subject to appropriate conditions, the provision of any or all such
improvements as, in its judgment, are not requisite in the interests of the
public health, safety and general welfare, or which are inappropriate because
of inadequacy or lack of connecting facilities.
   B.   Whenever it is deemed necessary by the city council to defer the
construction of any improvements required herein because of incompatible
grades, future planning, inadequate or lack of connecting facilities, or for
other reasons, the applicant shall pay his share of the costs of the future
improvements to the local government prior to signing of the final subdivision
plat, or the applicant shall file contracts and waivers regarding completion of
said improvements upon demand of the city council. (Ord. 2997, 11-20-1978)
11-4-5: BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   No certificate of occupancy for any building in a subdivision shall be
issued prior to the completion of the improvements in a manner which shall be
adequate for vehicular access by the prospective occupant and by police and
fire equipment.
   B.   No building permits shall be issued in the subdivision prior to the
time that the streets and easements affecting such lot are brought to the grade
established in the construction plans.
   C.   No building permit shall be issued for the final ten percent (10%) of
lots in a subdivision, or if ten percent (10%) be less than five (5), for the
final five (5) lots of a subdivision, until all public improvements required by
the city council for the plat have been fully completed and dedicated to the
city. (Ord. 2997, 11-20-1978)
CHAPTER 5
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-5-1: General Improvements
11-5-2: Lot Improvements
11-5-3: Roads
11-5-4: Drainage And Storm Sewers
11-5-5: Water Facilities
11-5-6: Sewerage Facilities
11-5-7: Sidewalks
11-5-8: Utilities
11-5-9: Public Uses
11-5-10: Preservation Of Natural Features And Amenities
11-5-11: Nonresidential Subdivisions
11-5-1: GENERAL IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Conformance To Applicable Rules And Regulations: In addition to the
requirements established herein, all subdivision plats shall comply with the
following laws, rules and regulations:
      1.   All applicable statutory provisions;
      2.   The city zoning ordinance, building and housing codes, and all other
applicable laws of the appropriate jurisdictions;
      3.   The comprehensive plan and capital improvements program of the city
including all streets, drainage, systems and parks shown on the comprehensive
plan as adopted;
      4.   The special requirements of these regulations and any rules of the
health department and/or appropriate state agencies;
      5.   The rules of the Iowa department of transportation if the
subdivision or any lot contained therein abuts a state highway;
      6.   The pertinent standards and regulations adopted by the city engineer
and all boards, commissions, agencies and officials of the city;
      7.   Plat approval may be withheld if a subdivision is not in conformity
with the guidelines, policies and purposes of these regulations established in
section
11-1-4 of this title.
   B.   Self-Imposed Restrictions: If the owner places restrictions on any of
the land contained in the subdivision greater than those required by the zoning
ordinance or these regulations, such restrictions or reference thereto shall be
required to be indicated on the subdivision plat and restrictive covenants
which will be recorded with the county recorder.
   C.   Plats Near Municipal Boundaries: Whenever access to the subdivision is
required across land in another local government, the city council shall
require assurance from the city attorney that access is legally established and
from the city engineer that the access road is adequately improved, or that a
performance bond has been duly executed and is sufficient in amount to assure
the construction of the access road. In general, plats should be laid out so as
not to cross municipal boundary lines.
   D.   Monuments: The applicant shall place permanent reference monuments in
the subdivision as required herein and as approved by a registered land
surveyor in accordance with Iowa Code chapter 354.
   E.   Character Of The Land: Land which the city finds to be unsuitable for
subdivision or development due to flooding, improper drainage, steep slopes,
rock formations, adverse earth formations or topography, utility easements or
other features which will reasonably be harmful to the health, safety and
general welfare of the present or future inhabitants of the subdivision and/or
its surrounding areas, shall not be subdivided or developed unless adequate
methods are formulated by the developer and approved by the city council, upon
recommendation of the planning, programming and zoning commission and city
engineer, to solve the problems created by the unsuitable land conditions. Such
land shall be set aside for other uses.
   F.   Subdivision Name: The proposed name of the subdivision shall not
duplicate, or too closely approximate phonetically, the name of any other
subdivision in the area covered by these regulations. The planning, programming
and zoning commission shall have final authority to designate the name of the
subdivision which shall be determined at the time of preliminary plat approval.
(Ord. 2997, 11-20-1978)
11-5-2: LOT IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Lot Arrangement: The lot arrangement shall be such that there will be
no foreseeable difficulties, for reasons of topography or other conditions, in
securing building permits to build on all lots in compliance with the zoning
ordinance and health regulations and in providing driveway access to buildings
on such lots from an approved street.
   B.   Lot Dimensions: Lot dimensions shall comply with the minimum standards
of the zoning ordinance. Where lots are more than double the minimum required
area for the zoning district, the planning, programming and zoning commission
may require that such lots be arranged so as to allow further subdivision and
the opening of future streets where they would be necessary to serve such
potential lots, all in compliance with the zoning ordinance and these
regulations. Dimensions of corner lots should be large enough to allow for
erection of buildings, observing the minimum front yard setback from both
streets. Depth and width of properties reserved or laid out for business,
commercial or industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide for the off-
street parking and loading facilities required for the type of use and
development contemplated, as established in the zoning ordinance.
   C.   Double-Frontage Lots And Access To Lots:
      1.   Double-Frontage Lots: Double-frontage lots and reversed-frontage
lots shall be avoided except where necessary to provide separation of
residential development from traffic arterials or to overcome specific
disadvantages of topography and orientation.
      2.   Access From Major And Secondary Arterials: Lots shall not derive
access from a major or secondary arterial. Where driveway access from a major
or secondary arterial may be necessary for several adjoining lots, the
planning, programming and zoning commission may require that such lots be
served by a combined access drive in order to limit possible traffic hazard on
such street. Where possible, driveways should be designed and arranged so as to
avoid requiring vehicles to back into traffic on major or secondary arterials.
   D.   Soil Preservation, Grading And Seeding:
      1.   Soil Preservation And Final Grading: In grading platted lots at
least six inches (6") of topsoil shall be maintained on the lots.
      2.   Lot Drainage: Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive
drainage away from all buildings, and individual lot drainage shall be
coordinated with the general storm drainage pattern for the area. Drainage
shall be designed so as to avoid concentration of storm drainage water from
each lot to adjacent lots.
   E.   Debris And Waste: No cut trees, timber, debris, junk, rubbish or other
waste materials of any kind shall be buried in any land, or left or deposited
on any lot or street at the time of issuance of a certificate of occupancy, and
removal of same shall be required prior to issuance of any certificate of
occupancy in a subdivision; nor shall any be left or deposited in any area of
the subdivision at the time of expiration of the performance bond or dedication
of public improvements, whichever is sooner.
   F.   Water Bodies And Watercourses: If a tract being subdivided contains a
water body, or portion thereof, lot lines shall be so drawn as to distribute
the entire ownership of the water body among the fees of adjacent lots. The
city council may approve an alternative plan whereby the ownership of and
responsibility for safe maintenance of the water body is so placed that it will
not become a responsibility of the city. Where a watercourse separates the
buildable portion of a lot from the street by which it has access, provisions
shall be made for installation of a culvert or other structure, of design
approved by the city engineer. (Ord. 2997, 11-20-1978)
11-5-3: ROADS:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   Frontage On Improved Streets: No subdivision shall be approved
unless the area to be subdivided shall have frontage on and access from an
existing street or a street shown upon a plat approved by the planning,
programming and zoning commission and recorded in the county recorder of deeds'
office. Such street or highway must be suitably improved as required by the
highways rules, regulations, specifications or orders, or be secured by a
contract required under these subdivision regulations, with the width and
right-of-way required under these subdivision regulations or the official
street plan. Wherever the area to be subdivided is to utilize existing street
frontage, such street shall be suitably improved as provided hereinabove.
      2.   Grading And Improvement Plan: Streets shall be graded and improved
and conform to the city construction standards and specifications and shall be
approved as to design and specifications by the city engineer, in accordance
with the construction plans.
      3.   Topography And Arrangement:
         a.   Streets shall be related appropriately to the topography. Local
roads should be curved wherever possible to avoid conformity of lot appearance.
All streets shall be arranged so as to obtain as many as possible of the
building sites at, or above, the grades of the streets. Grades of streets
should conform as closely as possible to the original topography. A combination
of steep grades and curves shall be avoided. Specific standards are contained
in the design standards in subsection B of this section.
         b.   All streets shall be properly integrated with the existing and
proposed system of thoroughfares and dedicated rights of way as established in
the comprehensive plan.
         c.   The design of thoroughfares should be properly related to special
traffic generators such as industries, business districts, schools, churches,
and shopping centers; to population densities; and to the pattern of existing
and proposed land uses.
         d.   Minor or local streets should be laid out to conform as much as
possible to the topography, to discourage use by through traffic, to permit
efficient drainage and utility systems, and to require the minimum number of
streets necessary to provide convenient and safe access to property.
         e.   The rigid rectangular gridiron street pattern need not
necessarily be adhered to, and the use of curvilinear streets, cul-de-sacs, or
U-shaped streets should be encouraged where such use will result in a more
desirable layout.
         f.   Proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of the
tract to be subdivided, unless prevented by topography or other physical
conditions, or unless in the opinion of the planning, programming and zoning
commission such extension is not necessary or desirable for the coordination of
the layout of the subdivision with the existing layout or the most advantageous
future development or adjacent tracts.
         g.   In business and industrial developments, the streets and other
accessways shall be planned in connection with the grouping of buildings,
location of rail facilities, and the provision of alleys, truck loading and
maneuvering areas and walk and parking areas so as to minimize conflict of
movement between the various types of traffic, including pedestrian.
      4.   Blocks:
         a.   Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two (2) tiers
of lots of appropriate depths. Exceptions to this prescribed block width shall
be permitted in blocks adjacent to major streets, railroads or waterways.
         b.   The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be such as are
appropriate for the locality and the type of development contemplated, but
block lengths in residential areas shall not exceed one thousand two hundred
feet (1,200') nor be less than four hundred feet (400') in length. Wherever
practicable, blocks along major arterials and collector streets shall not be
less than eight hundred feet (800') in length.
         c.   In long blocks the planning, programming and zoning commission
may require the reservation of an easement not less than ten feet (10') wide
through the block to accommodate utilities, drainage facilities, or pedestrian
traffic. Pedestrianways may be required by the planning, programming and zoning
commission through the center of blocks more than eight hundred feet (800')
long where deemed essential to provide circulation or access to schools,
playgrounds, shopping centers, transportation or other community facilities.
Blocks designed for industrial uses shall be of such length and width as may be
determined suitable by the planning, programming and zoning commission for
prospective use.
      5.   Access To Primary Arterials: Where a subdivision borders on or
contains an existing or proposed major or secondary arterial, the planning,
programming and zoning commission shall require that access to such streets be
limited by one of the following means:
         a.   The subdivision of lots so as to back onto the primary arterial
and front onto a parallel local street; no access shall be provided from the
primary arterial.
         b.   A series of cul-de-sacs, U-shaped streets or short loops entered
from and designed generally at right angles to such parallel streets, with the
rear lines or their terminal lots backing onto the major arterial.
         c.   A marginal access or service road (separated from the primary
arterial).
      6.   Street Names: The preliminary plat as submitted shall indicate names
of proposed streets. Names shall be sufficiently different in sound and in
spelling from other road names in the metropolitan area so as not to cause
confusion. A road which is or is planned as a continuation of an existing road
shall be the same name.
      7.   Street Lights: Installation of street lights shall be required in
accordance with design and specification standards approved by the city
engineer.
      8.   Reserve Strips: Installation of street lights shall not be permitted
adjacent to a proposed street in such a manner as to deny access from adjacent
property to such street.
      9.   Construction Of Roads And Dead-End Roads:
         a.   Construction Of Roads: The arrangement of streets shall provide
for the continuation of principal streets between adjacent properties when such
continuation is necessary for convenient movement of traffic, effective fire
protection, for efficient provision of utilities, and where such continuation
is in accordance with the comprehensive plan. If the adjacent property is
undeveloped and the street must be a dead-end street temporarily, the right of
way shall be extended to the property line. A temporary T- or L-shaped or
circular turnabout shall be provided on all temporary dead-end streets serving
more than two (2) lots, with the notation on the subdivision plat that land
outside the normal street right of way shall revert to abuttors whenever the
street is continued. The planning, programming and zoning commission may limit
the length of temporary dead-end streets in accordance with the design
standards in subsection B of this section.
         b.   Dead-End Roads (Permanent): Where a road does not extend beyond
the boundary of the subdivision and its continuation is not required by the
planning, programming and zoning commission for access to adjoining property,
its terminus shall normally not be nearer to such boundary than fifty feet
(50'). However, the planning, programming and zoning commission may require the
reservation of an appropriate easement to accommodate drainage facilities,
pedestrian traffic, or utilities. A cul-de-sac turnaround shall be provided at
the end of a permanent dead-end street in accordance with city construction
standards and specifications. For greater convenience to traffic and more
effective police and fire protection, permanent dead-end streets shall, in
general, be limited in length in accordance with the design standards
regulations.
         c.   Adjacent Properties: When a street or street right of way is
required to ensure access to an abutting property outside the subdivision, but
is not required to be improved, the developer of the adjacent property shall be
responsible for the improvements of said street at such time as the adjacent
property is developed.
   B.   Design Standards:
      1.   General: In order to provide for roads of suitable location, width
and improvement to accommodate prospective traffic and afford satisfactory
access to police, firefighting, snow removal, sanitation and road maintenance
equipment, and to coordinate roads so as to compose a convenient system and
avoid undue hardships to adjoining properties, the following design standards
for roads are hereby required (road classification may be indicated on the
comprehensive plan or official map; otherwise, it shall be determined by the
planning, programming and zoning commission).
      2.   Road Surfacing And Improvements: After sewer and water utilities
have been installed by the developer, the applicant shall construct curbs and
gutters or integral curbs, and shall surface or cause to be surfaced roadways
to the widths prescribed in these regulations. Said surfacing shall be of such
character as is suitable for the expected traffic and in harmony with similar
improvements in the surrounding areas. Types of pavement shall be as determined
by the city engineer and city council in accordance with the use of the street
which is anticipated. Adequate provision shall be made for culverts, drains and
bridges. All road pavements, shoulders, drainage improvements and structures,
curbs, turnarounds and sidewalks shall conform to all construction standards
and specifications adopted by the planning, programming and zoning commission,
city engineer and city council and shall be incorporated into the construction
plans required to be submitted by the developer.
      3.   Excess Right Of Way: Right-of-way widths in excess of the standards
designated in these regulations shall be required whenever, due to topography,
additional width is necessary to provide adequate earth slopes. Such slopes
should not be in excess of three to one ratio (3:1).
      4.   Railroads And Limited-Access Highways: Railroad rights of way and
limited-access highways where so located as to affect the subdivision of
adjoining lands shall be treated as follows:
         a.   In residential districts a buffer strip at least twenty five feet
(25') in depth in addition to the normal depth of the lot required in the
district shall be provided adjacent to the railroad right of way or limited-
access highway. This strip shall be part of the platted lots and shall be
designated on the plat: This strip is reserved for screening. The placement of
structure hereon is prohibited.
         b.   In districts zoned for business, commercial, or industrial uses
the nearest street extending parallel or approximately parallel to the railroad
shall, wherever practicable, be at a sufficient distance therefrom to ensure
suitable depth for commercial or industrial sites.
         c.   Streets parallel to the railroad when intersecting a street which
crosses the railroad at grade shall, to the extent practicable, be at a
distance of at least one hundred fifty feet (150') from the railroad right of
way. Such distance shall be determined with due consideration of the minimum
distance required for future separation of grades by means of appropriate
approach gradients.
      5.   Intersections:
         a.   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as
possible at right angles. A proposed intersection of two (2) new streets at an
angle of less than seventy five degrees (75°) shall not be acceptable. An
oblique street should be curved approaching an intersection and should be
approximately at right angles for at least one hundred feet (100') therefrom.
Not more than two (2) streets shall intersect at any one point unless
specifically approved by the city council.
         b.   Proposed new intersections along one side of an existing street
shall, wherever practicable, coincide with any existing intersections on the
opposite side of such street. Street jogs with center line offsets of less than
one hundred fifty feet (150') shall not be permitted, except where the
intersected street has separated dual drives without median breaks at either
intersection. Where streets intersect major streets, their alignment shall be
continuous. Intersection of major streets shall be at least eight hundred feet
(800') apart.
         c.   Minimum curb radius at the intersection of two (2) local streets
shall be at least twenty feet (20'); and a minimum curb radius at an
intersection involving a collector street shall be at least twenty five feet
(25'). Alley intersections and abrupt changes in alignment within a block shall
have the corners cut off in accordance with standards of the city engineer.
         d.   Intersections shall be designed with a flat grade wherever
practical. In hilly or rolling areas a nearly horizontal approach shall be
provided at the intersection.
         e.   Where any street intersection will involve earth banks or
existing vegetation inside any lot corner that would create a traffic hazard by
limiting visibility, the developer shall cut such ground and/or vegetation
(including trees) in connection with the grading of the public right of way to
the extent deemed necessary to provide an adequate sight distance.
         f.   The cross-slopes on all streets should normally be two percent
(2%).
      6.   Bridges And Box Culverts: Bridges or box culverts of primary benefit
to the applicant, as determined by the planning, programming and zoning
commission, shall be constructed at the sole expense of the applicant without
reimbursement from the local government. The sharing expense for the
construction of bridges and box culverts not of primary benefit to the
applicant, as determined by the city engineer and the city council, will be
fixed by a special agreement between the city and the applicant.
   TABLE 1
   DESIGN STANDARDS FOR ROADS
 Development Density  Nonresidential
     Residential      Business
 Low Medium      High Industrial
                         Development Density        Nonresidential
                                 Residential        Business
                         Low     Medium      High   Industrial

Minimum Width                                     
Right-Of-Way (In Feet)                            
Local road               50      60          60     60
Collector road           60      60          70     60
Secondary arterial       60      80          80     80
Primary arterial         100     100         100    100
Minimum Width                                     
Traveled Route (In Feet)                          
Local road               25 W/S* 28 W/C**    31 W/C 30 W/C
Collector road           28 W/S  31 W/C      40 W/C 40 W/C
Secondary arterial       28 W/S  40 W/C      44 W/C 44 W/C
Primary arterial         44 W/S  48 W/C      48 W/C 48 W/C
Maximum Grade (Percent)                           
Local road               10      10          8      6
Collector road           8       8           8      6
Secondary arterial       6       6           6      5
Primary arterial         6       6           6      5
Minimum Grade            0.5     0.5         0.5    0.5
(Percent)
Minimum Turn-Around (In                           
Feet)
Local roads                                       
R-O-W diameter           100     100         120    120
Pavement diameter        70      70          90     90
Center Island Diameter                            
(if required)            0       0           20     20
Design Speed (Miles Per                           
Hour)
Local roads              25      30          30     30
Collector roads          30      35          35     35
Secondary arterial       40      40          40     40
Primary arterial         40      40          40     50
Length Of Cul-De-Sacs                             
Maximum                  12 times minimum lot width serving no more than 25
                         families and not exceeding 720 feet in length.
 
*W/S = With shoulders (roll-type curb)
**W/C = With curbs (integral curbs)
   C.   Road Dedications And Reservations:
      1.   New Perimeter Street: Street systems in new subdivisions shall be
laid out so as to eliminate or avoid new perimeter half streets. Where an
existing half street is adjacent to a new subdivision, the other half of the
street shall be improved and dedicated by the subdivider. The planning,
programming and zoning commission may authorize a new perimeter street where
the subdivider improves and dedicates the entire required street right-of-way
width within his own subdivision boundaries.
      2.   Widening And Realignment Of Existing Roads: Where a subdivision
borders an existing narrow road or when the comprehensive plan, official map or
zoning setback regulations indicate plans for realignment or widening a road
that would require use of some of the land in the subdivision, the applicant
shall be required to improve and/or dedicate at his expense such areas for
widening or realignment of such roads. Such frontage roads and streets shall be
improved and dedicated by the applicant at his own expense to the full width as
required by these subdivision regulations. Any paving requirement over thirty
one feet (31') will be paid for by the city in an amount equal to the
additional costs over the thirty one foot (31') width. Land reserved for any
road purpose may not be counted in satisfying yard or area requirements of the
zoning ordinance whether the land is to be dedicated to the city in fee simple
or an easement is granted to the city. (Ord. 2997, 11-20-1978)
11-5-4: DRAINAGE AND STORM SEWERS:
   A.   General Requirements: The planning, programming and zoning commission
shall not recommend for approval any plat of subdivision which does not make
adequate provision for storm or flood water runoff channels or basins. The
storm water drainage system shall be separate and independent of any sanitary
sewer system. Storm sewers, where required, shall be designed by the rational
method, or other methods as approved by the city engineer, and a copy of design
computations shall be submitted along with plans. Inlets should be provided so
that surface water is not carried across or around any intersection nor for a
distance of more than six hundred feet (600') in the gutter. When calculations
indicate that curb capacities are exceeded at a point, no further allowance
shall be made for flow beyond that point, and basins shall be used to intercept
flow at that point. Surface water drainage patterns shall be shown for each and
every lot and block. Drainage from individual lots, onto adjacent property,
shall be restricted through utilization of proper grading techniques and storm
drainage improvements. Drainage from these lots should be directed to the
street or available drainage easements.
   B.   Nature Of Storm Water Facilities:
      1.   Location: The applicant may be required by the planning, programming
and zoning commission upon the recommendation of the city engineer to carry
away by pipe or open ditch any spring or surface water that may exist either
previously to, or as a result of the subdivision. Such drainage facilities
shall be located in the road right of way where feasible, or in perpetual
unobstructed easements of appropriate width, and shall be constructed in
accordance with construction standards and specifications.
      2.   Accessibility To Public Storm Sewers:
         a.   Where a public storm sewer is accessible, the applicant shall
install storm sewer facilities, or if no outlets are within a reasonable
distance, adequate provision shall be made for the disposal of storm water,
subject to the specifications of the city engineer. Inspection of facilities
shall be conducted by the city engineer. Parking areas for multi-family,
commercial and industrial activities shall be required to have the drainage
flow indicated on site plans submitted for building permits.
         b.   If a connection to a public storm sewer will be provided
eventually, as determined by the city engineer, the developer shall make
improvements for storm water disposal by a public storm sewer system at the
time that the plat receives final approval.
         c.   Where a central storm sewer system is not reasonably accessible,
but will become available within a reasonable time (not to exceed 15 years) the
applicant shall install said storm sewer improvements within the plat to be in
conformance with the city's specifications and ready for connection to the
city's system. The city will assume maintenance responsibility for these
facilities with the approval of the improvements by the city engineer.
      3.   Accommodation Of Upstream Drainage Areas: A culvert or other
drainage facility shall in each case be large enough to accommodate potential
runoff from its entire upstream drainage area, whether inside or outside the
subdivision. The city engineer shall determine the necessary size of the
facility, based on the provisions of the construction standards and
specifications assuming conditions of maximum potential watershed development
permitted by the zoning ordinance and master plan.
      4.   Effect On Downstream Drainage Areas: The city engineer shall also
study the effect of each subdivision on existing downstream drainage facilities
outside the area of the subdivision. engineering drainage studies together with
such other studies as shall be appropriate, shall serve as a guide to needed
improvements. Where it is anticipated that the additional runoff incident to
the development of the subdivision will overload an existing downstream
drainage facility, the city council may withhold approval of the subdivision
until provision has been made for the improvement of said potential condition.
No subdivision shall be approved unless adequate drainage will be provided to
an adequate drainage watercourse or facility.
      5.   Areas Of Poor Drainage: Whenever a plat is submitted for an area
which is subject to flooding, the city council may approve such subdivision
provided that the applicant fills the affected area of said subdivision to an
elevation sufficient to place the "lowest water entry level" as herein defined,
of any structure at a minimum of twelve inches (12") above the elevation of the
100-year flood, for an area at least ten feet (10') equidistant around the
structure, as determined by the city engineer. The plat of such subdivision
shall provide for an overflow zone along the bank of any stream or watercourse,
in a width which shall be sufficient in times of high water to contain or move
the water, and no fill shall be placed in the overflow zone nor shall any
structure be erected or placed therein. The boundaries of the overflow zone
shall be subject to approval by the city engineer. Development within areas of
extremely poor drainage should be discouraged.
      6.   Flood Fringe Areas: The city council may, when it deems necessary
for the health, safety or welfare of the present and future population of the
area and necessary to the conservation of water, drainage and sanitary
facilities, prohibit the subdivision of any portion of the property which lies
within the flood fringe areas of any stream or drainage course. These areas
shall be preserved from any and all destruction or damage resulting from
clearing, grading or dumping of earth, waste material, or stumps, except at the
discretion of the city council.
      7.   Floodway Areas: The city council shall prohibit the subdivision of
land for residential, commercial or industrial development located within areas
of the city which are designated as floodway.
   C.   Dedication Of Drainage Easements:
      1.   General Requirements: Where a subdivision is traversed by a
watercourse, drainageway, channel or stream, there shall be provided a storm
water easement or drainage right of way conforming substantially to the lines
of such watercourse, and of such width and construction or both as will be
adequate for the purpose. Wherever possible, it is desirable that the drainage
be maintained by an open channel with landscaped banks and adequate width for
maximum potential volume flow.
      2.   Drainage Easements:
         a.   Where topography or other conditions are such as to make
impractical the inclusion of drainage facilities within road rights of way,
perpetual unobstructed easements at least sixteen feet (16') in width for such
drainage facilities shall be provided across property outside the road lines
and with satisfactory access to the road. Easements shall be indicated on the
preliminary and final plat. Drainage easements shall be carried from the road
to a natural watercourse or to other drainage facilities.
         b.   When a proposed drainage system will carry water across private
land outside the subdivision, appropriate drainage rights must be secured and
indicated on the plat.
         c.   The applicant shall dedicate by drainage or conservation easement
the land on both sides of existing watercourses, to a distance to be determined
by the city engineer.
         d.   Low-lying lands along watercourses subject to flooding or
overflowing during storm periods, whether or not included in areas for
dedication, shall be preserved and retained as natural drainageways. (Ord.
2997, 11-20-1978)
11-5-5: WATER FACILITIES:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   Necessary action shall be taken by the applicant to extend or create
a water supply district for the purpose of providing a water supply system
capable of providing domestic water use and fire protection.
      2.   Where a public water main is accessible the subdivider shall install
adequate water facilities (including fire hydrants) subject to the
specification of the Waterloo waterworks.
      3.   Water main extensions shall be approved by the officially designated
agency of the state of Iowa and the Waterloo waterworks.
      4.   To facilitate the above, the location of all fire hydrants, all
supply improvements, and the boundary lines of proposed districts, indicating
all improvements proposed to be served, shall be shown on the preliminary plat.
   B.   Individual Wells And Central Water Systems:
      1.   In low-density zoning districts, at the discretion of the planning,
programming and zoning commission, if a public water system is not available,
individual wells may be used or a central water system provided in such a
manner that an adequate supply of potable water will be available to every lot
in the subdivision. Water samples shall be submitted to the health department
for its approval, and individual wells and central water systems shall be
approved by the appropriate health authorities.
      2.   If the planning, programming and zoning commission requires that a
connection to the public water main be eventually provided as a condition to
approval of an individual well or central water system, the applicant shall
make arrangements for future water service at the time the plat receives final
approval. Performance or cash bonds shall be required to ensure compliance.
   C.   Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants shall be required for all subdivisions
except those coming under subsection B1 of this section. Fire hydrants shall be
located in conformance with Waterloo waterworks specifications and shall be
approved by the applicable protection unit. To eliminate future street
openings, all underground utilities for fire hydrants, together with the fire
hydrants themselves and all other supply improvements shall be installed before
any final paving of a street shown on the subdivision plat. (Ord. 2997, 11-20-
1978)
11-5-6: SEWERAGE FACILITIES:
   A.   General Requirements: The applicant shall install sanitary sewer
facilities in a manner prescribed by the city's construction standards and
specifications. All plans shall be designed in accordance with the rules,
regulations and standards of the city engineer and the Iowa department of
environmental quality. Necessary action shall be taken by the applicant to
extend or create a sanitary sewer district for the purpose of providing
sewerage facilities to the subdivision, where no district exists for the land
to be subdivided.
   B.   Residential Districts: Sanitary sewerage systems shall be constructed
as follows:
      1.   Where a public sanitary sewerage system is reasonably accessible the
applicant shall connect with same and provide sewers accessible to each lot in
the subdivision.
      2.   Where public sanitary sewerage systems are not reasonably accessible
but will become available within a reasonable time (not to exceed 15 years),
the applicant may choose one of the following alternatives:
         a.   Central sewerage system, the maintenance cost to be assessed
against each property benefited; where plans for future public sanitary
sewerage systems exist, the applicant shall install the sewer lines, laterals
and mains to be in permanent conformance with such plans and ready for
connection to such public sewer mains; or
         b.   Individual disposal systems, provided the applicant shall install
sanitary sewer lines, laterals, and mains from the street curb to a point in
the subdivision boundary where a future connection with the public sewer main
shall be made. Sewer lines shall be laid from the house to the street lines,
and a connection shall be available in the home to connect from the individual
disposal system to the sewer system when the public sewers become available.
Such sewer systems shall be capped until ready for use and shall conform to all
plans for installation of the public sewer system, where such exist, and shall
be ready for connection to such public sewer main. The city will be responsible
for maintenance after the improvements have been accepted by the city.
      3.   Where sanitary sewer systems are not reasonably accessible and will
not become available for a period in excess of fifteen (15) years, the
applicant may install sewerage systems as follows:
         a.   Medium-Density Residential Districts: A central sewerage system
only. No individual disposal systems will be permitted. Where plans exist for a
public sewer system to be built, for a period in excess of fifteen (15) years,
the applicant shall install all sewer lines, laterals and mains to be in
permanent conformance with such plans and ready for connection to such public
sewer main.
         b.   Low-Density Residential District: Individual disposal systems or
central sewerage systems shall be used.
   C.   Mandatory Connection To Public Sewer System: If a public sanitary sewer
is accessible and a sanitary sewer is placed in a street or alley abutting upon
property, the owner thereof shall be required to connect to said sewer for the
purpose of disposing of waste, and it shall be unlawful for any such owner or
occupant to maintain upon any such property an individual sewage disposal
system.
   D.   Individual Disposal System Requirements: If public sewer facilities are
not available and individual disposal systems are proposed, minimum lot areas
shall conform to the requirements of the zoning ordinance and percolation tests
and test holes shall be made as directed by the Black Hawk County health
department and the results submitted to the health department. The individual
disposal system, including the size of the septic tanks and the size of the
tile fields or other secondary treatment device, shall also be approved by the
health officer. (Ord. 2997, 11-20-1978)
11-5-7: SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Requirements:
      1.   Sidewalks shall be included within the dedicated nonpavement right
of way of all roads as shown in Table 2 of this section.
      2.   Concrete curbs are required for all roads where sidewalks are
required by these regulations or where required in the discretion of the
planning, programming and zoning commission.
      3.   Sidewalks shall be improved as required in subsection
11-5-3B2 of this Chapter. A median strip of grassed or landscaped areas at
least five feet (5') wide shall separate all sidewalks from adjacent curbs in
residential subdivisions.
   B.   Pedestrian Access: The planning, programming and zoning commission may
require, in order to facilitate pedestrian access from the roads to schools,
parks, playgrounds or other nearby roads, perpetual unobstructed easements not
less than ten feet (10') in width. Easements shall be indicated on the plat.
   TABLE 2
   SIDEWALKS REQUIRED
 Development Density  Nonresidential
     Residential      Business
 Low Medium      High Industrial
           Development Density               Nonresidential
                      Residential            Business
           Low        Medium      High       Industrial

Local road Optional*  Optional    One side** Optional*
Collector  One side** One side**  Both sides Both sides
road       4' wide    4' wide     4' wide    4' wide
Secondary  One side** Both sides  Both sides Both sides
arterial   4' wide    4' wide     4' wide    6' wide
Primary    Both sides Both sides  Both sides Both sides
arterial   5' wide    5' wide     5' wide    6' wide
 
*Optional, but where provided, 4 feet minimum on either side of road with
concrete curbs.
**One side minimum; may be required on both sides of road upon recommendation
of the planning, programming and zoning commission.
(Ord. 2997, 11-20-1978)
11-5-8: UTILITIES:
   A.   Location: All utility facilities with the exception of pad- mount
transformers and terminals, including, but not limited to, gas, electric power,
telephone and CATV cables, shall be located underground throughout the
subdivision. All utility easements existing and proposed throughout the
subdivision shall be shown on the preliminary plat. Underground connections to
the property line of each platted lot shall be installed at the subdivider's
expense. At the discretion of the planning, programming and zoning commission,
the requirement for service connections to each lot may be waived in the case
of adjoining lots to be retained in single ownership and intended to be
developed for the same primary use.
   B.   Easements:
      1.   Easements centered on rear lot lines which are provided for
municipal utilities shall be at least sixteen feet (16') wide. Proper
coordination shall be established between the city, the subdivider and the
applicable utility companies for the establishment of utility easements prior
to approval of the preliminary plat.
      2.   Where topographical or other conditions are such as to make
impractical the inclusion of utilities within the rear lot lines, perpetual
unobstructed easements at least sixteen feet (16') in width shall be provided
along side lot lines with satisfactory access to the road or rear lot lines.
Easements shall be indicated on the plat. (Ord. 2997, 11-20-1978)
11-5-9: PUBLIC USES:
   A.   Parks, Playgrounds And Recreation Area Standards: The city should
obtain land for parks and playgrounds or other recreation purposes in locations
designated on the comprehensive plan or otherwise where such reservations would
be appropriate. Each reservation shall be of suitable size, dimension,
topography and general character and shall have adequate road access, for the
particular purposes envisioned by the leisure services commission. The area
shall be shown and marked on the plat, reserved for park and/or recreation
purposes. When recreation areas are established, the leisure services
commission shall determine the number of acres to be reserved.
   B.   Minimum Size Of Park And Playground Reservations: In general, land
reserved for recreation purposes shall have an area of at least four (4) acres.
When less than four (4) acres, the commission may require that the recreation
area be located at a suitable place on the edge of the subdivision so that
additional land may be added at such time as the adjacent land is subdivided.
(Ord. 2997, 11-20-1978)
11-5-10: PRESERVATION OF NATURAL FEATURES AND AMENITIES:
Existing features which would add value to residential development or to the
city as a whole, such as trees, as herein defined, watercourses and falls,
historic spots and similar irreplaceable assets, should be preserved in the
design of the subdivision. The plat shall show the number and location of
existing trees, as required by these regulations and shall further indicate all
those marked for retention. (Ord. 2997, 11-20-1978)
11-5-11: NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   General: If a proposed subdivision includes land that is zoned for
commercial or industrial purposes, the layout of the subdivision with respect
to such land shall make such provisions as the planning, programming and zoning
commission may require. A nonresidential subdivision shall also be subject to
all the requirements of site plan approval set forth in the zoning ordinance.
Site plan approval and nonresidential subdivision plat approval may proceed
simultaneously at the discretion of the planning, programming and zoning
commission. A nonresidential subdivision shall be subject to all the
requirements of these regulations, as well as such additional standards
required by the planning, programming and zoning commission, and shall conform
to the proposed land use and standards established in the comprehensive plan
and zoning ordinance.
   B.   Standards: In addition to the principles and standards in these
regulations, which are appropriate to the planning of all subdivisions, the
applicant shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the commission that the
street, parcel and block pattern proposed is specifically adapted to the uses
anticipated and takes into account other uses in the vicinity. The following
principles and standards shall be observed:
      1.   Proposed industrial parcels shall be suitable in area and dimensions
to the types of industrial development anticipated.
      2.   Street rights of way and pavement shall be adequate to accommodate
the type and volume of traffic anticipated to be generated thereupon.
      3.   Special requirements may be imposed by the local government with
respect to street, curb, gutter and sidewalk design and construction.
      4.   Special requirements may be imposed by the local government with
respect to the installation of public utilities, including water, sewer and
storm water drainage.
      5.   Every effort shall be made to protect adjacent residential areas
from potential nuisance from a proposed commercial or industrial subdivision,
including the provision of extra depth in parcels backing upon existing or
potential residential development and provisions for a permanently landscaped
buffer strip when necessary.
      6.   Streets carrying nonresidential traffic, especially truck traffic,
shall not normally be extended to the boundaries of adjacent existing or
potential residential areas and shall connect to a collector street. (Ord.
2997, 11-20-1978)
 
TRAFFIC CODE
PREFACE
   This Traffic Code of the City of Waterloo, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including Ordinance No. 5779, passed November 18, 2024.
Ordinances of the City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of
this City Code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent
therewith. Consult with the City Clerk in order to ascertain whether any
particular provision of the Code has been amended, superseded, or repealed.
               Kelley Felchle
               City Clerk
               City of Waterloo
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF WATERLOO, IOWA
Ordinance No. 3842
REGULATION OF TRAFFIC
AN ORDINANCE REGULATING, GOVERNING AND CONTROLLING TRAFFIC AND USE OF THE
STREETS, ALLEYS AND DRIVEWAYS OF THE CITY OF WATERLOO AND PROVIDING PENALTIES
FOR VIOLATION OF THE PROVISIONS THEREOF AND REPEALING ALL ORDINANCES
INCONSISTENT THEREWITH.
BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of Waterloo, Iowa, as follows:
SEC. 1.
That Ordinance No. 2644 and all amendments thereto be, and the same are hereby
repealed.
SEC. 2.   SHORT TITLE.
2. SHORT TITLE.This ordinance may be known and cited as the "Traffic Code."
DEFINITIONS
SEC. 3.   DEFINITIONS OF WORDS AND PHRASES.
3.   DEFINITIONS OF WORDS AND PHRASES.Iowa Code §321.1, Definitions of words
and phrases, is hereby adopted by reference, in its entirety. All amendments to
Iowa Code §321.1 shall automatically modify this Code. The definitions which
have an Iowa Code section listed in brackets are adopted by reference. The
other words and phrases when used in this Code have the meanings respectively
ascribed to them.
   1.   “All-terrain vehicle” means a motor vehicle designed to travel on three
or more wheels and designed primarily for off-road recreational use. “All-
terrain vehicle” includes off-road utility vehicles as defined in section
321I.1, but does not include farm tractors or equipment, construction
equipment, forestry vehicles, or lawn and grounds maintenance vehicles. (‘97
Rev.; ’99 Rev.; ’10 Rev.) [Iowa Code §321.1(4)]
   2.   "Alley" means a thoroughfare laid out, established and platted as such,
by constituted authority. [Iowa Code §321.1(3)]
   3.   "Ambulance" means a motor vehicle, which is equipped with life support
systems and used to transport sick and injured persons who require emergency
medical care to medical facilities. ('91 Rev.) [Iowa Code §321.1(5)]
   4.   "Authorized Emergency Vehicle" means vehicles of the fire department,
police vehicles, ambulances, and emergency vehicles owned by the United States,
this state, any subdivision of this state, or any municipality of this state,
and privately owned vehicles as are designated or authorized by the director of
transportation under section 321.451. ('91 Rev.; ’00 Rev.) [Iowa Code §321.1
(6)]
   5.   "Bicycle" means either of the following: (1) A device having two wheels
and having at least one saddle or seat for the use of a rider, which is
propelled by human power. (2) A device having two or three wheels with fully
operable pedals and an electric motor of less than seven hundred fifty watts
(one horsepower), whose maximum speed on a paved level surface, when powered
solely by such a motor while ridden, is less than twenty miles per hour. ('91
Rev.; ’07 Rev.) [Iowa Code §321.1(40)(c)]
   6.   "Business District" means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway when fifty per cent or more of the frontage thereon for a distance of
three hundred feet or more is occupied by buildings in use for business. [Iowa
Code §321.1(7)]
   7.   "Bus Zone" means a place adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive
use of public carriers during the loading or unloading of passengers.
   8.   "Chauffeur" means a person who operates a motor vehicle, including a
school bus, in the transportation of persons for wages, compensation or hire,
or a person who operates a truck tractor, road tractor or a motor truck, which
has a gross vehicle weight rating exceeding sixteen thousand pounds. A person
is not a chauffeur when the operation of the motor vehicle, other than a truck
tractor, by the owner or operator is occasional and merely incidental to the
owner's or operators principal business.
      A person is not a chauffeur when the operation is by a volunteer fire
fighter operating fire apparatus, or is by a volunteer ambulance or rescue
squad attendant operating ambulance or rescue squad apparatus. If a volunteer
fire fighter or ambulance or rescue squad operator receives nominal
compensation not based upon the value of the services performed, the fire
fighter or operator shall be considered to be receiving no compensation and
classified as a volunteer.
      If authorized to transport inmates, probationers, parolees, or work
releasees by the director of the Iowa department of corrections or the
director's designee, an employee of the Iowa department of corrections or a
district department of correctional services is not a chauffeur when
transporting the inmates, probationers, parolees, or work releasees.
      A farmer or the farmer's hired help is not a chauffeur when operating a
truck, other than a truck tractor, owned by the farmer and used exclusively in
connection with the transportation of the farmer's own products or property.
      If authorized to transport patients or clients by the director of the
department of human services or the director's designee, an employee of the
department of human services is not a chauffeur when transporting the patients
or clients in an automobile.
      A person is not a chauffeur when the operation is by a home care aide in
the course of the home care aide's duties.
      If authorized to transport students or clients by the superintendent of
the Iowa braille and sight saving school or of the Iowa school for the deaf, or
the superintendent's respective designee, an employee of the Iowa braille and
sight saving school or the Iowa school for the deaf is not a chauffeur when
transporting the students or clients.
      If authorized to transport patients or residents of the Iowa veterans
home by the commandant or the commandant’s designee, an employee of or
volunteer at the Iowa veterans home is not a chauffeur when transporting the
patients or residents in an automobile in the course of the employee’s or
volunteer’s normal duties.
('91 Rev.; '95 Rev.; ’10 Rev.) [Iowa Code §321.1(8)]
   9.   "Crosswalk" means that portion of a roadway ordinarily included within
the prolongation or connection of the lateral lines of sidewalks at
intersections, or, any portion of a roadway distinctly indicated for pedestrian
crossing by lines or other markings on the surface. [Iowa Code §321.1(16)]
   10.   "Curb Loading Zone" means a place adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading and unloading of passengers or
materials.
   11.   "Driver’s License" means any license or permit issued to a person to
operate a motor vehicle on the highways of this state, including but not
limited to a temporary restricted or temporary license and an instruction,
chauffeur's instruction, commercial driver's instruction, temporary restricted,
or temporary permit.
For purposes of license suspension, revocation, bar, disqualification,
cancellation, or denial under chapters 321A, 321C, and 321J, "driver’s license"
includes any privilege to operate a motor vehicle.
('91 Rev., ’99 Rev.) [Iowa Code §321.1(20A)]
   12.   “Financial liability coverage” means any of the following:
      a.   An owner’s policy of liability insurance which is issued by an
insurance carrier authorized to do business in Iowa to or for the benefit of
the person named in the policy as insured, and insuring the person named as
insured and any person using an insured motor vehicle with the express or
implied permission of the named insured against loss from liability imposed by
law for damages arising out of the ownership, maintenance, or use of an insured
motor vehicle within the United States of America or Canada, but subject to
minimum limits, exclusive of interest and costs, in the amounts specified in
section 321A.21 or specified in another provision of the Code, whichever is
greater.
      b.   A bond filed with the department pursuant to section 321A.24.
      c.   A valid statement issued by the treasurer of state pursuant to
section 321A.25 attesting to the filing of a certificate of deposit with the
treasurer of state.
      d.   A valid certificate of self-insurance issued by the department
pursuant to section 321A.34.
(’97 Rev.; ’99 Rev.; ’00 Rev.) [Iowa Code §321.1(24B)]
   13.   "Freight Curb Loading Zone" means a place adjacent to a curb for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of freight.
   14.   "Gross Weight" means the empty weight of a vehicle plus the maximum
load to be carried by the vehicle. The maximum load to be carried by a
passenger-carrying vehicle shall be determined by multiplying one hundred fifty
pounds by the number of passenger seats carried by such vehicle. [Iowa Code
§321.1(29)(a)]
   15.   "Hazardous Material" means a substance or material which has been
determined by the United States secretary of transportation to be capable of
posing an unreasonable risk to health, safety, and property when transported in
commerce, and which has been so designated. ('91 Rev.) [Iowa Code §321.1(31)]
   16.   "Intersection" means the area embraced within the prolongation or
connection of the lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary
lines of the roadways of two highways which join one another at, or
approximately at, right angles or the area within which vehicles traveling upon
different highways joining at any other angle may come in conflict. [Iowa Code
§321.1(33)]
   17.   "Laned Highway" means a highway the roadway of which is divided into
three or more clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic. [Iowa Code §321.1
(34)]
   18.   "Motorcycle" means every motor vehicle having a saddle or seat for the
use of the rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in
contact with the ground including a motor scooter but excluding a tractor and a
motorized bicycle. ('91 Rev.) [Iowa Code §321.1(40)(a)]
   19.   "Motor Truck" means every motor vehicle designed primarily for
carrying livestock, merchandise, freight of any kind, or over nine persons as
passengers. [Iowa Code §321.1(41)]
   20.   "Motor Vehicle" means every vehicle, which is self-propelled and not
operated upon rails. [Iowa Code §321.1(42)(a)]
   21.   "Motorized Bicycle" means a motor vehicle having a saddle or a seat
for the use of a rider, designed to travel on not more than three wheels in
contact with the ground, and not capable of operating at a speed in excess of
thirty miles per hour on level ground unassisted by human power. (Ord. #3146,
6/1/81; 03 Rev.;’07 Rev.) [Iowa Code §321.1(40)(b)]
   22.   “New motor vehicle or new car” means a motor vehicle subject to
registration which has not been sold “at retail” as defined in chapter 322.
(’97 Rev., ’99 Rev.) [Iowa Code §321.1(42)(c)]
   23.   "Official Parking Signs" means any such signs as have been erected by
authority of a public body or official having jurisdiction for the purpose of
regulating parking.
   24.   "Official Traffic-Control Devices" means all signs, signals, markings,
and devices not inconsistent with this chapter placed or erected by authority
of a public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of
regulating, warning, or guiding traffic. [Iowa Code §321.1(46)]
   25.   "Official Traffic-Control Signal" means any device, whether manually,
electrically or mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed
to stop and to proceed. [Iowa Code §321.1(47)]
   26.   "Operator" or "Driver" means every person who is in actual physical
control of a motor vehicle upon a highway. ('91 Rev.) [Iowa Code §321.1(48)]
   27.   "Owner" means a person who holds the legal title of a vehicle, or in
the event a vehicle is the subject of a security agreement with an immediate
right of possession vested in the debtor, then such debtor shall be deemed the
owner for the purpose of this chapter. [Iowa Code §321.1(49)]
   28.   "Parking" means the standing of a vehicle whether occupied or not.
   29.   "Parking Meter" or "Mechanical Parking Time Indicator" means any
device or devices which shall indicate thereon the length of time during which
a vehicle may be parked in a particular place which shall have as a part
thereof a receptacle or chamber for receiving and storing coins of the United
States money, a slot or place in which said coin may be deposited; a timing
mechanism to indicate the passage of the interval of time during which parking
is permissible and which shall also display an appropriate signal when the
aforesaid interval of time shall have elapsed; also brief instructions as to
their operation.
   30.   "Passenger Curb Loading Zone" means a place adjacent to a curb
reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of
passengers.
   31.   "Peace Officer" means every officer authorized to direct or regulate
traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations in addition to
its meaning in section 801.4. ('91 Rev.) [Iowa Code §321.1(50)]
   32.   "Pedestrian" means any person afoot. [Iowa Code §321.1(51)]
   33.   "Person" means every natural person, firm, copartnership, association,
or corporation. Where the term "person" is used in connection with the
registration of a motor vehicle, it shall include any corporation, association,
copartnership, company, firm, or other aggregation of individuals which owns or
controls such motor vehicle as actual owner, or for the purpose of sale or for
renting, whether as agent, salesperson, or otherwise. [Iowa Code §321.1(52)]
   34.   "Police Officer" means "Peace Officer". ('91 Rev.)
   35.   "Private Road" or "Driveway" means every way or place in private
ownership and used for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express
or implied permission from the owner but not by other persons. [Iowa Code
§321.1(54)]
   36.   "Railroad" means a carrier of persons or property upon cars operated
upon stationary rails. ('91 Rev.) [Iowa Code §321.1(55)]
   37.   "Railroad Sign" or "Signal" means any sign, signal, or device erected
by authority of a public body or official or by a railroad and intended to give
notice of the presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
[Iowa Code §321.1(57)]
   38.   "Railroad Train" means an engine or locomotive with or without cars
coupled thereto, operated upon rails. ('91 Rev.) [Iowa Code §321.1(58)]
   39.   "Residence District" means the territory within a city contiguous to
and including a highway, not comprising a business, suburban or school
district, where forty percent or more of the frontage on such highway for a
distance of three hundred feet or more is occupied by dwellings or by dwellings
and buildings in use for business. [Iowa Code §321.1(63)]
   40.   "Right of Way" means the privilege of the immediate use of the
highway. [Iowa Code §321.1(64)]
   41.   "Road Tractor" means every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon either
independently or any part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn. [Iowa
Code §321.1(64A)]
   42.   “Road work zone” means the portion of a highway which is identified by
posted or moving signs as the site of construction, maintenance, survey, or
utility work. The zone starts upon meeting the first sign identifying the zone
and continues until a posted or moving sign indicates that the work zone has
ended. (’97 Rev., ’99 Rev.) [Iowa Code §321.1(66)]
   43.   "Roadway" means that portion of a highway improved, designed, or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel. [Iowa Code §321.1(65)]
   44.   "Safety Zone" means the area or space officially set apart within a
roadway for the exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or so
marked or indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times
while set apart as a safety zone. [Iowa Code §321.1(68)]
   45.   "School Bus" means every vehicle operated for the transportation of
children to or from school, except vehicles which are:
      (a)   Privately owned and not operated for compensation;
      (b)   Used exclusively in the transportation of the children in the
immediate family of the driver;
      (c)   Operated by a municipally or privately owned urban transit company
or a regional transit system as defined in section 324A.1 for the
transportation of children as part of or in addition to their regularly
scheduled service; or
      (d)   Designed to carry not more than nine persons as passengers, either
school owned or privately owned, which are used to transport pupils to activity
events in which the pupils are participants or used to transport pupils to
their homes in case of illness or other emergency situations. The vehicles
operated under the provisions of paragraph shall be operated by employees of
the school district who are specifically approved by the local superintendent
of schools for the assignment.
(’00 Rev.; ’08 Rev.) [Iowa Code §321.1(69)]
   46.   "School District" means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway for a distance of two hundred feet in either direction from a
schoolhouse in a city. [Iowa Code §321.1(70)]
   47.   "Semitrailer" means every vehicle without motive power designed for
carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so
constructed that some part of its weight and that of its load rests upon or is
carried by another vehicle.
      Wherever the word "trailer" is used in this chapter, same shall be
construed to also include "semitrailer."
      A "semitrailer" shall be considered in this chapter separately from its
power unit. ('91 Rev.) [Iowa Code §321.1 (71)]
   48.   "Sidewalk" means that portion of a street between the curb lines, or
the lateral lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for
the use of pedestrians. [Iowa Code §321.1(72)]
   49.   "Stop" means a complete cessation of movement.
   50.   "Stopping" or "Standing" means stopping or standing of a vehicle
whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic
control sign or signal.
   51.   "Street" or "Highway" means the entire width between property lines of
every way or place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use
of the public, as a matter of right, for purpose of vehicular traffic. ('91
Rev.) [Iowa Code §321.1(78)]
   52.   "Suburban District" means all other parts of a city not included in
the business, school or residence districts. [Iowa Code §321.1(79)]
   53.   "Through (or thru) highway" means every highway or street or portion
thereof at the entrances to which vehicular traffic from intersecting highways
is required by law to stop before entering or crossing the same and when stop
signs are erected as provided in this chapter or such entrances are controlled
by a peace officer or traffic-control signal. The term "arterial" is synonymous
with "through" or "thru" when applied to highways of this state. ('91 Rev.)
[Iowa Code §321.1(81)]
   54.   "Traffic" means pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles,
streetcars, and other conveyances either singly or together while using any
highway for purposes of travel. [Iowa Code §321.1(84)]
   55.   "Traffic Division" when used in this ordinance shall be synonymous
with Waterloo Police Department. (Ord. #3256, 1/17/83)
   56.   "Trailer" means every vehicle without motive power designed for
carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so
constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle. [Iowa
Code §321.1(85)]
   57.   "Truck Tractor" means every motor vehicle designed and used primarily
for drawing other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than
a part of the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn. However, a truck tractor
may have a box, deck, or plate for carrying freight, mounted on the frame
behind the cab, and forward of the fifth-wheel connection point. (’06 Rev.)
[Iowa Code §321.1(88)]
   58.   "U-Turn" means the turning from one side to the other on a street and
proceeding in the opposite direction. ('91 Rev.)
   59.   "Vehicle" means every device in, upon, or by which any person or
property is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway. "Vehicle" does not
include:
      a.   Any device moved by human power.
      b.   Any device used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
      c.   Any integral part of a truck tractor or road tractor which is
mounted on the frame of the truck tractor or road tractor immediately behind
the cab and which may be used to transport persons and property but which
cannot be drawn upon the highway by the truck tractor or another motor vehicle.
      d.   Any steering axle, dolly, auxiliary axle or other integral part of
another vehicle which in and of itself is incapable of commercially
transporting any person or property but is used primarily to support another
vehicle.
('91 Rev.) [Iowa Code §321.1(90)]
SEC. 4.   PENALTIES FOR MISDEMEANORS.
4.   PENALTIES FOR MISDEMEANORS.It is a simple misdemeanor for any person to do
any act forbidden or to fail to perform any act required by any of the
provisions of this ordinance unless any such violation is by this ordinance or
other law of this State declared to be a felony.
Every person convicted of a misdemeanor for a violation of the provisions of
this ordinance for which another penalty is not provided shall be punished by a
fine of not less than sixty-five dollars ($65.00) nor more than six hundred
twenty-five dollars ($625.00) or by imprisonment for not more than thirty (30)
days in lieu of a fine or in addition to a fine. ('91 Rev.; ’08 Rev.)
SEC. 5-9. RESERVED.
TRAFFIC ADMINISTRATION
SEC. 10.   DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
10.   DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.It shall be the duty of the police department
to enforce the street traffic regulations of this City and all the State
Vehicle Laws applicable to street traffic in this City, to make arrests for
traffic violations, to investigate accidents and to cooperate with the other
officers of this City in the administration of the traffic laws and in
developing ways and means to improve traffic conditions, and to carry out those
duties specially imposed upon said police department by this ordinance. (Ord.
#3256, 1/17/83)
SEC. 11.   RULES AND REGULATIONS.
11.   RULES AND REGULATIONS.The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to adopt
and enforce such departmental rules and regulations governing procedure as may
be necessary to carry out the provisions of this code, and to carry out any
other laws the enforcement of which is vested in the police department and not
inconsistent with the laws of this state or ordinances of the city.
SEC. 12.   TRAFFIC ACCIDENT STUDIES.
12.   TRAFFIC ACCIDENT STUDIES.Whenever the accidents at any particular
location become numerous, the city shall conduct or cause to be made studies of
such accidents and determine remedial measures. (Ord. #3256, 1/17/83)
SEC. 13.   TRAFFIC ACCIDENT REPORTS.
13.   TRAFFIC ACCIDENT REPORTS.The police department shall maintain a suitable
system of filing traffic accident reports.
The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident within the limits of this city
shall file a report as and when required by the State of Iowa. Said report
shall be filed with the Waterloo Police Department. Also, see Section 124.
(Ord. #3256, 1/17/83; '91 Rev.)
SEC. 14.   REPORTS CONFIDENTIAL--WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
14.   REPORTS CONFIDENTIAL--WITHOUT PREJUDICE.All accident reports filed by a
driver of a vehicle involved in an accident as required under this code and
under Iowa Code §321.266 shall be in writing. The report shall be without
prejudice to the individual so reporting and shall be for the confidential use
of the department, except that upon the request of any person involved in the
accident, the person's insurance company or its agent, or the attorney for such
person, the department shall disclose the identity and address of the other
persons involved in the accident and may disclose the name of the insurance
companies with whom the other persons have liability insurance. The department,
upon written request of the person making the report, shall provide the person
with a copy of that person's report. The written report filed with the
department shall not be admissible in or used in evidence in any civil or
criminal case arising out of the facts on which the report is based.
All written reports filed by a law enforcement officer as required under Iowa
Code §321.266 shall be made available to any party to an accident, the party's
insurance company or its agent, the party's attorney, or the attorney general,
on written request and payment of a fee. The fee for the copying service as
determined by the Chief of Police shall not exceed the cost of providing the
service. (Ord. #3408, 10/21/85; '91 Rev., ’99 Rev.; 03 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code
§321.271]
SEC. 15.   OBSOLETE RECORDS DESTROYED.
15.   OBSOLETE RECORDS DESTROYED.The police chief may destroy any records of
the department which have been maintained on file for three years, which the
chief may deem obsolete and of no further service in carrying out the powers
and duties of the department. However, this shall not apply to any records
which are required to be kept for a longer period of time by the Iowa Code.
('91 Rev.; '95 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.12]
SEC. 19 . Repealed by Ord. #3256, 1/17/83.
SEC. 16-29. RESERVED.
SPECIAL ANTI-THEFT LAW
SEC. 30.   INJURING OR TAMPERING WITH VEHICLE.
30.   INJURING OR TAMPERING WITH VEHICLE.Any person who either individually or
in association with one or more other persons willfully injures or tampers with
any vehicle or breaks or removes any part or parts of or from a vehicle without
the consent of the owner is guilty of a misdemeanor. [Ref. Iowa Code §321.78]
SEC. 31.   INTENT TO INJURE.
31.   INTENT TO INJURE.Any person who with intent to commit any malicious
mischief, injury, or other crime climbs into or upon a vehicle whether it is in
motion or at rest or with like intent attempts to manipulate any of the levers,
starting mechanism, brakes or other mechanism or device of a vehicle while the
same is at rest and unattended or with like intent sets in motion any vehicle
while the same is at rest and unattended is guilty of a simple misdemeanor.
[Ref. Iowa Code §321.79]
SEC. 32-41. RESERVED.
REGISTRATION
SEC. 42.   MISDEMEANOR TO VIOLATE REGISTRATION PROVISIONS.
42.   MISDEMEANOR TO VIOLATE REGISTRATION PROVISIONS.No person shall drive or
move and no owner shall knowingly permit to be driven or moved upon any street
or highway any vehicle of a type required to be registered according to the
laws of the State of Iowa, which is not registered or for which the appropriate
fees have not been paid when and as required by the laws of the State of Iowa.
[Ref. Iowa Code §321.17]
SEC. 43.   REGISTRATION CARD SIGNED, CARRIED AND EXHIBITED.
43.   REGISTRATION CARD SIGNED, CARRIED AND EXHIBITED.A vehicle's registration
card shall at all times be carried in the vehicle to which it refers and shall
be shown to any peace officer upon the officer's request.
The provisions requiring that a registration card be carried in the vehicle to
which it refers shall not apply when such card is used for the purpose of
making application for renewal of registration or upon a transfer of
registration of said vehicle. ('91 Rev.; '95 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.32, 33]
SEC. 44.   DISPLAY OF PLATES.
44.   DISPLAY OF PLATES.   (a)   Registration plates issued for a motor vehicle
other than a motorcycle, motorized bicycle or a truck tractor shall be attached
to the motor vehicle, one in the front and the other in the rear. The
registration plate issued for a motorcycle or other vehicle required to be
registered hereunder shall be attached to the rear of the vehicle. The
registration plate issued for a truck tractor shall be attached to the front of
the truck tractor. The special plate issued to a dealer shall be attached on
the rear of the vehicle when operated on the highways of this state.
   (b)   Registration plates issued for a motor vehicle which is model year
1948 or older, and reconstructed or specially constructed vehicles built to
resemble a model year 1948 vehicle or older, other than a truck registered for
more than five tons, motorcycle or truck tractor, may display one registration
plate on the rear of the vehicle if the other registration plate issued to the
vehicle is carried in the vehicle at all times when the vehicle is operated on
a public highway.
   (c)   The annual validation sticker, specifying the month and year of
expiration of the plates, shall be displayed only on the rear plate, except
that the sticker shall be displayed on the front plate of a truck-tractor.
   (d)   It is unlawful for the owner of a vehicle to place any frame around or
over the registration plate which does not permit full view of all numerals and
letters printed on the registration plate.
('91 Rev.; Ord. #4247, 8/18/97; ’99 Rev.; Ord. #4535, 1/28/02) [Ref. Iowa Code
§321.37]
SEC. 45.   PLATES, METHOD OF ATTACHING.
45.   PLATES, METHOD OF ATTACHING.Every registration plate shall at all times
be securely fastened in a horizontal position to the vehicle for which it is
issued so as to prevent the plate from swinging and at a height of not less
than twelve inches from the ground, measuring from the bottom of such plate, in
a place and position to be clearly visible and shall be maintained free from
foreign materials and in a condition to be clearly legible. An imitation plate
or plates imitating or purporting to imitate the official registration plate of
any other state or territory of the United States or of any foreign government
shall not be fastened to the vehicle. ('91 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.38]
SEC. 46.   OPERATION WITHOUT REGISTRATION.
46.   OPERATION WITHOUT REGISTRATION.No person shall operate, nor shall an
owner knowingly permit to be operated upon any highway any vehicle required to
be registered and titled hereunder unless there shall be attached thereto and
displayed thereon when and as required by the State of Iowa a valid
registration card and registration plate or plates issued therefor for the
current registration year and unless a certificate of title has been issued for
such vehicle except as otherwise expressly permitted in Iowa Code Chapter 321.
('91 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.98]
SEC. 47.   FRAUDULENT USE OF REGISTRATION.
47.   FRAUDULENT USE OF REGISTRATION.A person shall not knowingly lend to
another a registration card, registration plate, special plate, or permit
issued to the person if the other person desiring to borrow the card, plate, or
permit would not be entitled to the use of it. A person shall not knowingly
permit the use of a registration card, registration plate, special plate, or
permit issued to the person by one not entitled to it, nor shall a person
knowingly display upon a vehicle a registration card, registration plate,
special plate, or permit not issued for that vehicle under this ordinance.
Scheduled fine is $200.00. ('91 Rev.; ’00 Rev.; Ord. #5007, 9/13/10) [Ref. Iowa
Code §321.99]
SEC. 48-57. RESERVED.
OPERATOR'S LICENSE
SEC. 58.   OPERATORS LICENSED--OPERATION OF COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES.
58.   OPERATORS LICENSED--OPERATION OF COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES.Iowa Code
§321.174(1) and (2) are hereby adopted by reference. All amendments to Iowa
Code §321.174(1) and (2) shall automatically modify this section.
   "1.   A person, except those expressly exempted, shall not operate any motor
vehicle upon a highway in this state unless the person has a driver’s license
issued by department valid for the vehicle's operation.
   2.   a. A person operating a commercial motor vehicle shall not have more
than one driver’s license. A nonresident may operate a commercial motor vehicle
in Iowa if the nonresident has been issued a license by another state, a
nonresident commercial driver's license, or a driver’s license issued by a
foreign jurisdiction which the federal highway administration has determined to
be issued in conformity with the federal commercial driver testing and
licensing standards, if the license, commercial driver's license, or driver’s
license is valid for the vehicle operated.
      b.    A person who operates a commercial motor vehicle upon the highways
of this state without having been issued a driver’s license valid for the
vehicle operated commits a simple misdemeanor.
   A person who operates a commercial motor vehicle upon the highways of this
state after the person’s commercial driver’s license has been downgraded to a
noncommercial status pursuant to section 321.207 commits a simple misdemeanor."
   The scheduled fine for violation of this section is two hundred dollars
($200.00).
(Ord. #4247; 8/18/97; ’99 Rev.; Ord. #5007, 9/13/10; 2011 Rev.) [Iowa Code
§321.174]
SEC. 59.   LICENSE CARRIED AND EXHIBITED.
59.   LICENSE CARRIED AND EXHIBITED.A licensee shall have the licensee's
driver’s license in immediate possession at all times when operating a motor
vehicle and shall display the same, upon demand of a judicial magistrate,
district associate judge, district judge, peace officer, or examiner of the
State of Iowa Department of Transportation. However, a person charged with
violating this section shall not be convicted and the citation shall be
dismissed by the court if the person produces in court, within a reasonable
time, a driver’s license issued to that person and valid for the vehicle
operated at the time of the person's arrest or at the time the person was
charged with a violation of this section. Upon dismissal, the court or clerk of
court shall assess the costs of the action against the defendant named on the
citation.
The scheduled fine for violation of this section is one hundred dollars
($100.00).
('91 Rev.; Ord. #4247, 8/18/97; ’99 Rev.; ’07 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.174
(3)]
SEC. 60.   UNLAWFUL USE OF LICENSE AND NONOPERATOR'S IDENTIFICATION CARD.
60.   UNLAWFUL USE OF LICENSE AND NONOPERATOR'S IDENTIFICATION CARD.It is a
simple misdemeanor for any person:
   1.   To display or cause or permit to be displayed or have in the person's
possession a canceled, revoked, suspended, fictitious, or fraudulently altered
driver’s license or nonoperator's identification card.
   2.   To lend that person's driver’s license or nonoperator's identification
card to another person or knowingly permit the use of the license by another.
   3.   To display or represent as one's own a driver’s license or
nonoperator's identification card not issued to that person.
   4.   To fail or refuse to surrender to the department upon its lawful demand
driver’s license or nonoperator's identification card which has been suspended,
revoked, or canceled.
   5.   To permit an unlawful use of a driver’s license or nonoperator's
identification card issued to that person.
('91 Rev.; '96 Rev.; ’99 Rev.) (Nonoperator's identification card added to this
section by 76th G.A., effective 7/1/96) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.216]
DRIVING WHILE LICENSE DENIED, SUSPENDED OR REVOKED.
Repealed as the Iowa Legislature made this a serious misdemeanor as of 7/1/95.
('91 Rev.; '95 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.218(1) (1997)]
SEC. 61.   OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES WITH EXPIRED LICENSE.
61.   OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES WITH EXPIRED LICENSE.A person shall not
operate a motor vehicle upon the streets of this city with an expired motor
vehicle license. The scheduled fine for violation of this section is Thirty
Dollars ($30.00). (Ord. #4247, 8/18/97; ’99 Rev.; Ord. #4552, 5/20/02) [Ref.
Iowa Code §321.174A]
SEC. 62.   RENTING MOTOR VEHICLE TO ANOTHER.
62.   RENTING MOTOR VEHICLE TO ANOTHER.No person shall rent a motor vehicle to
any other person unless the latter person is then duly licensed hereunder or,
in the case of a nonresident, then duly licensed under the laws of the state or
country of residence except a nonresident whose home state or country does not
require that an operator be licensed. ('91 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.222]
SEC. 63.   RECORD KEPT.
63.   RECORD KEPT.Every person renting a motor vehicle to another shall keep a
record of the registration number of the motor vehicle so rented, the name and
address of the person to whom the vehicle is rented, the number of the license
of said latter person and the date and place when and where the license was
issued. The record shall be open to inspection by any peace officer. ('91 Rev.)
[Ref. Iowa Code §321.224]
SEC. 64.   LICENSE INSPECTION FOR MOTOR VEHICLE RENTAL.
64.   LICENSE INSPECTION FOR MOTOR VEHICLE RENTAL.A person shall not rent a
motor vehicle to another person without inspecting the driver’s license of the
person to whom the vehicle is to be rented and doing all of the following:
   1.   A comparison and verification of the signature on the driver’s license
with the signature of such person written in the inspecting person's presence.
   2.   A comparison and verification of the person to whom the motor vehicle
is to be rented with the photograph and other identification information on the
person's driver’s license.
   3.   A determination that the driver’s license of the person to whom the
vehicle is to be rented is valid for operating the vehicle to be rented.
('91 Rev.; ’99 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.223]
SEC. 65.   PERMITTING UNAUTHORIZED MINOR TO DRIVE.
65.   PERMITTING UNAUTHORIZED MINOR TO DRIVE.A person shall not cause or
knowingly permit the person's child or ward under the age of eighteen years to
drive a motor vehicle upon any highway when the minor is not authorized under
this Code. The scheduled fine for a violation is $200.00. ('91 Rev.; ’00 Rev.;
03 Rev.; Ord. #5007, 9/13/10) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.219]
SEC. 66.   PERMITTING UNAUTHORIZED PERSON TO DRIVE.
66.   PERMITTING UNAUTHORIZED PERSON TO DRIVE.A person shall not authorize or
permit a motor vehicle owned by the person or under the person's control to be
driven upon a highway by a person who is not issued a driver’s license valid
for the vehicle's operation. The scheduled fine for a violation is $200.00.
('91 Rev.; ’99 Rev.; ’00 Rev.; Ord. #5007, 9/13/10) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.220]
SEC. 67.   EMPLOYING UNLICENSED CHAUFFEUR.
67.   EMPLOYING UNLICENSED CHAUFFEUR.A person shall not employ as a chauffeur
of a motor vehicle a person not then holding a class D driver's license or a
commercial driver's license as provided in Iowa Code Chapter 321 (1999). ('91
Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.221]
SEC. 68.   VIOLATION OF RESTRICTION.
68.   VIOLATION OF RESTRICTION.A person shall not operate a motor vehicle in
any manner in violation of the restriction or limitations imposed in a
restricted motor vehicle license issued to that person. ('91 Rev.)
SEC. 69.   PROOF OF SECURITY AGAINST LIABILITY68.   VIOLATION OF
RESTRICTION.—DRIVING WITHOUT LIABILITY COVERAGE.
   Iowa Code §321.20B, Proof of security against liability—driving without
liability coverage, is hereby adopted by reference in its entirety. All
amendments to Iowa Code §321.20B shall automatically modify this Traffic Code.
   1.   a.   Notwithstanding chapter 321A, which requires certain persons to
maintain proof of financial responsibility, a person shall not drive a motor
vehicle on the highways of this state unless financial liability coverage, as
defined in section 321.1, subsection 24B, is in effect for the motor vehicle
and unless the driver has in the motor vehicle the proof of financial liability
coverage card issued for the motor vehicle, or if the vehicle is registered in
another state, other evidence that financial liability coverage is in effect
for the motor vehicle.
      b.   It shall be conclusively presumed that a motor vehicle driven upon a
parking lot which is available to the public without charge or which is
available to customers or invitees of a business or facility without charge was
driven on the highways of this state in order to enter the parking lot, and
this section shall be applicable to such a motor vehicle. As used in this
section, “parking lot” includes access roads, drives, lanes, aisles, entrances,
and exits to and from a parking lot described in this paragraph.
      c.   This subsection does not apply to the operator of a motor vehicle
owned by or leased to the United States, this state or another state, or any
political subdivision of this state or of another state, or to a motor vehicle
which is subject to section 325A.6.
   2.   a.   An insurance company transacting business in this state shall
issue to its insured owners of motor vehicles registered in this state a
financial liability coverage card for each motor vehicle insured. Each
financial liability coverage card shall identify the registration number or
vehicle identification number of the motor vehicle insured and shall indicate
the expiration date of the applicable insurance coverage. The financial
liability coverage card shall also contain the name and address of the insurer
or the name of the insurer and the name and address of the insurance agency,
the name of the insured, and an emergency telephone number of the insurer or
emergency telephone number of the insurance agency.
      b.    The insurance division and the department, as appropriate, shall
adopt rules regarding the contents of a financial liability coverage card to be
issued pursuant to this section. Notwithstanding the provisions of this
section, a fleet owner is not required to maintain in each vehicle a financial
liability coverage card with the individual registration number or the vehicle
identification number of the vehicle included on the card. Such fleet owner
shall be required to maintain a financial liability coverage card in each
vehicle in the fleet including information deemed appropriate by the
commissioner of insurance or the director, as applicable.
   3.   If the financial liability coverage for a motor vehicle which is
registered in this state is canceled or terminated effective prior to the
expiration date indicated on the financial liability coverage card issued for
the vehicle, the person to whom the financial liability coverage card was
issued shall destroy the card.
   4.   a.   If a peace officer stops a motor vehicle registered in this state
and the driver is unable to provide proof of financial liability coverage, the
peace officer shall do one of the following:
         (1)   Issue a warning memorandum to the driver.
         (2)   Issue a citation to the driver.
         (3)   Issue a citation and remove the motor vehicle's license plates
and registration receipt. Upon removing the license plates and registration
receipt, the peace officer shall deliver the plates for destruction, as
appropriate, and forward the registration receipt and evidence of the
violation, as determined by the department, to the county treasurer of the
county in which the motor vehicle is registered. The motor vehicle may be
driven for a time period of up to forty-eight hours after receiving the
citation solely for the purpose of removing the motor vehicle from the highways
of this state, unless the driver's operating privileges are otherwise
suspended. After receiving the citation, the driver shall keep the citation in
the motor vehicle at all times while driving the motor vehicle as provided in
this subparagraph, as proof of the driver's privilege to drive the motor
vehicle for such limited time and purpose.
         (4)   (a)   Issue a citation, remove the motor vehicle's license
plates and registration receipt, and impound the motor vehicle. The peace
officer shall deliver the plates for destruction, as appropriate, and forward
the registration receipt and evidence of the violation, as determined by the
department, to the county treasurer of the county in which the motor vehicle is
registered.
            (b)   A motor vehicle which is impounded may be claimed by a person
if the owner provides proof of financial liability coverage and proof of
payment of any applicable fine and the costs of towing and storage for the
motor vehicle. If the motor vehicle is not claimed within thirty days after
impoundment, the motor vehicle may be treated as an abandoned vehicle pursuant
to section 321.89.
            (c)   The holder of a security interest in a motor vehicle which is
impounded pursuant to this subparagraph shall be notified of the impoundment
within seventy-two hours of the impoundment of the motor vehicle and shall have
the right to claim the motor vehicle upon the payment of all fees. However, if
the value of the vehicle is less than the security interest, all fees shall be
divided equally between the lienholder and the political subdivision impounding
the vehicle.
      b.   An owner or driver of a motor vehicle who is charged with a
violation of subsection 1 and issued a citation under paragraph "a",
subparagraph (3) or (4), is subject to the following:
         (1)   An owner or driver who produces to the clerk of court prior to
the date of the individual's court appearance as indicated on the citation,
proof that financial liability coverage was in effect for the motor vehicle at
the time the person was stopped and cited, or, if the driver is not the owner
of the motor vehicle, proof that liability coverage was in effect for the
driver with respect to the motor vehicle being driven at the time the driver
was stopped and cited, in the same manner as if the motor vehicle were owned by
the driver, shall be given a receipt indicating that such proof was provided
and be subject to one of the following:
            (a)   If the person was cited pursuant to paragraph "a",
subparagraph (3), the owner or driver shall provide a copy of the receipt to
the county treasurer of the county in which the motor vehicle is registered and
the owner shall be assessed a fifteen dollar administrative fee by the county
treasurer who shall issue new license plates and registration to the person
after payment of the fee.
            (b)   If the person was cited pursuant to paragraph "a",
subparagraph (4), the owner or driver, after the owner provides proof of
financial liability coverage to the clerk of court, may claim the motor vehicle
after such person pays any applicable fine and the costs of towing and storage
for the motor vehicle, and the owner or driver provides a copy of the receipt
and the owner pays to the county treasurer of the county in which the motor
vehicle is registered a fifteen dollar administrative fee, and the county
treasurer shall issue new license plates and registration to the person.
         (2)   An owner or driver who is charged with a violation of subsection
1 and is unable to show that financial liability coverage was in effect for the
motor vehicle at the time the person was stopped and cited may do either of the
following:
            (a)   Sign an admission of violation on the citation and remit to
the clerk of court a scheduled fine as provided in section 805.8A, subsection
14, paragraph “f”, for a violation of subsection 1. Upon payment of the fine to
the clerk of court of the county where the citation was issued, payment of a
fifteen dollar administrative fee to the county treasurer of the county in
which the motor vehicle is registered, and providing proof of payment of any
applicable fine and proof of financial liability coverages to the county
treasurer of the county in which the motor vehicle is registered, the treasurer
shall issue new license plates and registration to the owner.
            (b)   Request an appearance before the court on the matter. If the
matter goes before the court, and the owner or driver is found guilty of a
violation of subsection 1, the court may impose a fine as provided in section
805.8A, subsection 14, paragraph “f”, for a violation of subsection 1, or the
court may order the person to perform unpaid community service instead of the
fine. Upon the payment of the fine or the entry of the order for unpaid
community service, the person shall provide proof of payment or entry of such
order and the county treasurer of the county in which the motor vehicle is
registered shall issue new license plates and registration to the owner upon
the owner providing proof of financial liability coverage and paying a fifteen
dollar administrative fee to the county treasurer.
            (c)   An owner or driver cited for a violation of subsection 1, who
produces to the clerk of court prior to the date of the person’s court
appearance as indicated on the citation proof that financial liability coverage
was in effect for the motor vehicle at the time the person was stopped and
cited, shall not be convicted of such violation and the citation issued shall
be dismissed by the court. Upon dismissal, the court or clerk of court shall
assess the costs of the action against the defendant named on the citation.
   5.   If the motor vehicle is not registered in this state and the driver is
a nonresident, the peace officer shall do one of the following:
      a.   Issue a warning memorandum to the driver.
      b.   Issue a citation. An owner or driver who produces to the clerk of
court prior to the date of the person's court appearance as indicated on the
citation, proof that the financial liability coverage was in effect for the
motor vehicle at the time the person was stopped and cited, or if the driver is
not the owner of the motor vehicle, proof that liability coverage was in effect
for the driver with respect to the motor vehicle being driven at the time the
driver was stopped and cited in the same manner as if the motor vehicle were
owned by the driver, shall be given a receipt indicating that proof was
provided, and the citation issued shall be dismissed by the court. Upon
dismissal, the court or clerk of court shall assess the costs of the action
against the defendant named on the citation.
   6.   This section does not apply to a snowmobile or all-terrain vehicle or
to a motor vehicle identified in section 321.18, subsections 1 through 6, and
subsection 8.
   7.   This section does not apply to a lienholder who has a security interest
in a motor vehicle subject to the registration requirements of this chapter, so
long as such lienholder maintains financial liability coverage for any motor
vehicle driven or moved by the lienholder in which the lienholder has an
interest.
   8.   This section does not apply to a motor vehicle owned by a motor vehicle
dealer or wholesaler licensed pursuant to chapter 322.”
If a person is charged and found guilty of a violation of Section 69 of the
Waterloo Traffic Code, and there was no motor vehicle accident, the scheduled
fine is Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250.00). If, in connection with a motor
vehicle accident, a person is charged and found guilty of a violation of
Section 69 of the Waterloo Traffic Code, the scheduled fine is Five Hundred
Dollars ($500.00).
(Enacted by Ord. #4352, 4/19/99; repealed by Ord. #4372, 7/19/99; re-enacted by
Ord. #4426, 7/24/00; 03 Rev.; ’08 Rev.) [Iowa Code 321.20B]
SEC. 70-78. RESERVED.
OBEDIENCE TO AND EFFECT OF TRAFFIC LAWS
SEC. 79.   OPERATION ON STREETS ONLY; EXCEPTION.
79.   OPERATION ON STREETS ONLY; EXCEPTION.The provisions of this traffic
ordinance relating to the operation of vehicles refers exclusively to the
operation of vehicles upon streets and highways except:
   1.   When a different place is specifically referred to in a given section.
   2.   The provisions of Section 119 through 126 inclusive and Section 138
shall apply upon streets and highways and elsewhere throughout the City.
SEC. 80.   ROAD WORKERS EXEMPTED.
80.   ROAD WORKERS EXEMPTED.This Code, except for Iowa Code §§321.277 and
321.280, does not apply to persons and motor vehicles and other equipment while
actually engaged in work upon the surface of a highway officially closed to
traffic but does apply to such persons and vehicles when traveling to or from
such work. The minimum speed restriction of Iowa Code §321.285(5) and the
provisions of §§321.297, 321.298 and 321.323 do not apply to road workers
operating maintenance equipment on behalf of any state or local authority while
engaged in road maintenance, road blading, snow and ice control and removal,
and granular resurfacing work on a highway, whether or not the highway is
closed to traffic. ('91 Rev.; Ord. #4247, 8/18/97; ’99 Rev.; ’10 Rev.) [Ref.
Iowa Code §321.233]
SEC. 81.   AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
81.   AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.It shall be the duty of
the officers of the police department to enforce all street traffic laws of
this City and all State Vehicle Laws applicable to street traffic in this City.
The officers of the police department are hereby authorized to direct all
traffic by voice, hand, or signal in conformance with traffic laws, provided
that, in the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to
safeguard pedestrians, officers of the police department may direct traffic as
conditions require notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
Officers of the fire department, when at the scene of a fire, may direct or
assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate vicinity.
SEC. 82.   PEACE OFFICER'S AUTHORITY.
82.   PEACE OFFICER'S AUTHORITY.A peace officer is authorized to stop a vehicle
to require exhibition of a motor vehicle license, to serve a summons or
memorandum of traffic violation, to inspect the condition of the vehicle, to
inspect the vehicle with reference to size, weight, cargo, bills of lading or
other manifest of employment, tires and safety equipment, or to inspect the
registration certificate, the compensation certificate, travel order, or permit
of such vehicle. ('91 Rev.)
SEC. 83.   OBEDIENCE TO POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
83.   OBEDIENCE TO POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.No person shall
willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order of the peace officer
or fire department official invested by law or this ordinance with authority to
direct, control, or regulate traffic. [Ref. Iowa Code §321.229]
SEC. 84.   BICYCLES OR ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES.
84.   BICYCLES OR ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES.A person riding an animal or driving
any animal drawing a vehicle upon a roadway is subject to the provisions of
this ordinance applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except those provisions
of this ordinance which by their nature can have no application.
A person, including a peace officer, riding a bicycle upon a roadway is subject
to the provisions of this ordinance and has all the rights and duties under
this ordinance applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except those provisions
of this ordinance which by their nature can have no application or those
provisions for which specific exceptions have been set forth regarding police
bicycles.
A person propelling a bicycle on the roadway shall not ride other than upon or
astride a permanent and regular seat attached to the bicycle. A person shall
not use a bicycle on the highway to carry more persons at one time than the
number of persons for which the bicycle is designed and equipped.
This section does not apply to the use of a bicycle in a parade authorized by
local authorities.
('91 Rev.; Ord. #4247, 8/18/97; ’99 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.234]
SEC. 85.   OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORIZED BICYCLES.
85.   OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORIZED BICYCLES.   1.   General. The
motor vehicle laws apply to the operators of motorcycles and motorized bicycles
to the extent practically applicable.
   2.   Riders.
      a.      Motorized bicycles. A person operating a motorized bicycle on the
highways shall not carry any other person on the vehicle.
      b.      Motorcycles. A person shall not operate or ride a motorcycle on
the highways with another person on the motorcycle unless the motorcycle is
designed to carry more than one person. The additional passenger may ride upon
the permanent and regular seat if designed for two persons, or upon another
seat firmly attached to the motorcycle at the rear of the operator. The
motorcycle shall be equipped with footrests for the passenger unless the
passenger is riding in a sidecar or enclosed cab. The motorcycle operator shall
not carry any person nor shall any other person ride in a position that will
interfere with the operation or control of the motorcycle or the view of the
operator.
   3.   Sitting position. A person operating a motorcycle or motorized bicycle
shall ride only upon the vehicle's permanent and regular attached seat. Every
person riding upon the vehicle shall be sitting astride the seat, facing
forward with one leg on either side of the vehicle.
   4.   Use of traffic lanes. Persons shall not operate motorcycles or
motorized bicycles more than two abreast in a single lane. Except for persons
operating such vehicles two abreast, a motor vehicle shall not be operated in a
manner depriving a motorcycle or motorized bicycle operator of the full use of
a lane. A motorcycle or motorized bicycle shall not be operated between lanes
of traffic or between adjacent lines or rows of vehicles. The operator of a
motorcycle or motorized bicycle shall not overtake and pass in the same lane
occupied by the vehicle being overtaken unless the vehicle being overtaken is a
motorcycle or motorized bicycle.
   5.   Headlights on. A person shall not operate a 1977 or later model year
motorcycle or any model year motorized bicycle upon the highways without
displaying at least one lighted headlamp. However, this subsection is subject
to the exceptions with respect to parked vehicles as provided in this code.
   6.   Packages. The operator of a motorcycle or motorized bicycle shall not
carry any package, bundle, or other article which prevents the operator from
keeping both hands on the handlebars.
   8.   Parades. The provision of this section do not apply to motorcycles or
motorized bicycles when used in a parade authorized by proper permit from local
authorities.
   9.   Bicycle safety flags required on motorized bicycles. When operated on a
highway, a motorized bicycle shall have a bicycle safety flag which extends not
less than five feet above the ground attached to the rear of the motorized
bicycle. The bicycle safety flag shall be triangular in shape with an area of
not less than thirty square inches, and be Day-Glo in color.
(Ord. #3146, 6/1/81; '91 Rev.; ’99 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.275]
SEC. 86.   PUBLIC OFFICERS NOT EXEMPT.
86.   PUBLIC OFFICERS NOT EXEMPT.The provisions of this ordinance applicable to
the drivers of vehicles upon the highways shall apply to the drivers of all
vehicles owned or operated by the United States, this state or any county,
city, district, or any other political subdivision of the state, subject to
such specific exceptions as are set forth in this ordinance with reference to
authorized emergency vehicles. ('91 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.230]
SEC. 87.   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
87.   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.Iowa Code §321.231, Authorized emergency
vehicles, is hereby adopted by reference, in its entirety. All amendments to
Iowa Code §321.231 shall automatically modify this Code.
   "1.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected perpetrator of
a felony or in response to an incident dangerous to the public or when
responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may exercise the
privileges set forth in this section.
   2.   The driver of any authorized emergency vehicle may:
      a.   Park or stand an authorized emergency vehicle, irrespective of the
provisions of this chapter.
      b.   Disregard laws or regulations governing direction of movement for
the minimum distance necessary before an alternative route that conforms to the
traffic laws and regulations is available.
   3.   The driver of a fire department vehicle, police vehicle or ambulance,
or a peace officer riding a police bicycle in the line of duty may do any of
the following:
      a.   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation.
      b.   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as the driver does not
endanger life or property.
   4.   The exemptions granted to an authorized emergency vehicle under
subsection 2 and for a fire department vehicle, police vehicle or ambulance as
provided in subsection 3 shall apply only when such vehicle is making use of an
audible signaling device meeting the requirements of section 321.433, or a
visual signaling device, except that use of an audible or visual signaling
device shall not be required when exercising the exemption granted under
subsection 3, paragraph "b" of this section when the vehicle is operated by a
peace officer, pursuing a suspected violator of the speed restrictions imposed
by or pursuant to this chapter, for the purpose of determining the speed of
travel of such suspected violator.
   5.   The provisions of this section shall not relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle or the rider of a police bicycle from the duty to
drive or ride with due regard for the safety of all persons, nor shall such
provisions protect the driver or rider from the consequences of the driver's or
rider’s reckless disregard for the safety of others."
('91 Rev.; ’97 Rev.’ ’99 Rev.; ’10 Rev.) [Iowa Code §321.231]
SEC. 88.   OPERATION ON APPROACH OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
88.   OPERATION ON APPROACH OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES.Upon the immediate approach
of an authorized emergency vehicle with any lamp or device displaying a red
light or red and blue lights, or an authorized emergency vehicle of a fire
department displaying a blue light, or when the driver is giving audible signal
by siren, exhaust whistle, or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall
yield the right of way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to,
and as close as possible to, the right-hand edge or curb of the street clear of
any intersection and shall stop and remain in such position until the
authorized emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer. For the purposes of this section, "red light" or "blue light"
means a light or lighting device that, when illuminated, will exhibit a solid
flashing or strobing red or blue light.
This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons
using the highway.
('91 Rev.; ’00 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.324]
SEC. 89.   RIDING BICYCLE ON SIDEWALK IN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
89.   RIDING BICYCLE ON SIDEWALK IN BUSINESS DISTRICT.No person shall ride a
bicycle on the sidewalk within the business district except on-duty police
officers. (Ord. #3861, 5/26/92)
SEC. 90.   TRAVELING ON MARKED HIGHWAYS.
90.   TRAVELING ON MARKED HIGHWAYS.Motor Carriers shall travel over marked
highways when operated within the City limits and shall not depart therefrom
except that any motor carrier whose destination is in the City may depart from
such highway at that point on the highway nearest to its destination and then
proceed directly to such destination and any motor carrier whose trip
originates within the City may travel by the most direct route to that point on
a marked highway nearest to such point of origin; provided, however, that motor
carriers may also traverse any alternate routes specified by the Chief of
Police.
SEC. 91.   TRUCK TRAFFIC LIMITED.
91.   TRUCK TRAFFIC LIMITED.Truck traffic shall be limited or prohibited on
such streets as are designated by resolution of the City Council and where
appropriate signs are placed on such streets.
SEC. 92-101. RESERVED.
TRAFFIC SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS
SEC. 102.   TEMPORARY TRAFFIC SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKERS.
102.   TEMPORARY TRAFFIC SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKERS.The City of Waterloo may
temporarily change any section of this code, by City Council Resolution, when
reasonably necessary because of construction, reconstruction, maintenance,
safety or natural disaster. The City shall cause signs to be erected indicating
such changes. (Ord. #3441, 6/9/86; '91 Rev.)
SEC. 103.   AUTHORITY TO INSTALL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
103.   AUTHORITY TO INSTALL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.The city shall place and
maintain traffic-control signs, signals, and devices when and as required under
the traffic or other ordinances of this city or by resolution of city council
to make effective the provisions of said ordinances, and may place and maintain
such additional traffic-control devices as traffic conditions may require to
regulate, guide or warn traffic under the traffic ordinances of this City or
under State Law.
SEC. 104.   OBEDIENCE TO OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
104.   OBEDIENCE TO OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.No driver of a vehicle
shall disobey the instructions of any official traffic-control device placed in
accordance with the provisions of this Code, unless at the time otherwise
directed by a police officer subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle. ('91 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.256]
SEC. 105.   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL.
105.   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL.For the purposes of this section "stop
at the official traffic control signal" means stopping at the first opportunity
at either the clearly marked stop line or before entering the crosswalk or
before entering the intersection.
Official traffic control signals consisting of colored lights or colored
lighted arrows shall regulate vehicle and pedestrian traffic in the following
manner:
   1.   A "steady circular red" light means vehicular traffic shall stop.
Vehicular traffic shall remain standing until a signal to proceed is shown or
vehicular traffic, unless prohibited by a sign, may cautiously enter the
intersection to make a right turn from the right lane of traffic or a left turn
from a one-way street to a one-way street from the left lane of traffic on a
one-way street onto the leftmost lane of traffic on a one-way street. Turns
made under this paragraph shall be made in a manner that does not interfere
with other vehicular or pedestrian traffic lawfully using the intersection.
Pedestrian traffic facing a steady circular red light shall not enter the
roadway unless the pedestrian can safely cross the roadway without interfering
with any vehicular traffic.
   2.   A "steady circular yellow" or "steady yellow arrow" light means
vehicular traffic is warned that the related green movement is being terminated
and vehicular traffic shall no longer proceed into the intersection and shall
stop. If the stop cannot be made in safety, a vehicle may be driven cautiously
through the intersection. Pedestrian traffic is warned that there is
insufficient time to cross the intersection and any pedestrian starting to
cross the roadway shall yield the right of way to all vehicles.
   3.   A "steady circular green" light means vehicular traffic may proceed
straight, turn right or turn left through the intersection unless otherwise
specifically prohibited. Vehicular traffic shall yield the right of way to
other vehicular and pedestrian traffic lawfully within the intersection.
   4.   A "steady green arrow" light shown alone or with another official
traffic control signal means vehicular traffic may cautiously enter the
intersection and proceed in the direction indicated by the arrow. Vehicular
traffic shall yield the right of way to other vehicles and pedestrians lawfully
within the intersection.
   5.   A "flashing circular red" light means vehicular traffic shall stop and
after stopping may proceed cautiously through the intersection yielding to all
vehicles not required to stop or yield which are within the intersection or
approaching so closely as to constitute a hazard, but then may proceed.
   6.   A "flashing yellow" light means vehicular traffic shall proceed through
the intersection or past such signal with caution.
   7.   A "don't walk" light is a pedestrian signal which means that pedestrian
traffic facing the illuminated pedestrian signal shall not start to cross the
roadway in the direction of the pedestrian signal, and pedestrian traffic in
the crossing shall proceed to a safety zone.
   8.   A "walk" light is a pedestrian signal which means that pedestrian
traffic facing the illuminated pedestrian signal may proceed to cross the
roadway in the direction of the pedestrian signal and shall be given the right
of way by drivers of all vehicles.
   9.   A "solid red/flashing red" light means vehicular traffic facing the
solid red signal shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an
intersection or at such other point as may be indicated by a clearly visible
line and shall remain standing until the signal turns to flashing red. No turns
shall be permitted while the signal remains solid red. Vehicular traffic facing
the flashing red shall stop and proceed in accordance with subsection 5 above.
(Ord. #2690, 7/8/74; Ord. #3594, 10/24/88; '91 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.257]
SEC. 106.   UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF DEVICES, SIGNS OR SIGNALS.
106.   UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF DEVICES, SIGNS OR SIGNALS.Entire section deleted
as it is now a serious misdemeanor. [Ref. Iowa Code §321.260 (1995)]
SEC. 107.   UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
107.   UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.No person shall place, maintain,
or display upon or in view of any highway any sign, signal, marking, or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official parking
sign, curb or other marking, traffic-control device or railroad sign or signal,
or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides from view
or interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic-control device or
any railroad sign or signal, if such sign, signal, marking, or device has not
been authorized by the State of Iowa with reference to highways under their
jurisdiction, local authorities with reference to streets and highways under
their jurisdiction, and no person shall place or maintain nor shall any public
authority permit upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon
any commercial advertising. This shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection
upon private property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional
information of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway is
hereby empowered to remove the same or cause it to be removed without notice.
('91 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.259]
SEC. 108.   CITY OF WATERLOO TO DESIGNATE CROSSWALKS, ESTABLISH AND MARK
TRAFFIC LANES.
108.   CITY OF WATERLOO TO DESIGNATE CROSSWALKS, ESTABLISH AND MARK TRAFFIC
LANES.The City of Waterloo is hereby authorized to:
   (1)   designate and maintain by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon the
surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where, due to traffic
conditions, there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the street or
roadway, and at such other places as traffic conditions require, and
   (2)   make lanes for traffic on street pavements at such places as traffic
conditions require consistent with the traffic ordinances of this city.
(Ord. #3256, 1/17/83) ('91 Rev.)
SEC. 109-118. RESERVED.
ACCIDENTS
SEC. 119.   DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURIES.
119.   DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURIES.This section repealed as the violation is
either a serious or aggravated misdemeanor. ('91 Rev.; '95 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa
Code §321.261 (1995)]
SEC. 120.   DAMAGE TO VEHICLE.
120.   DAMAGE TO VEHICLE.The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident
resulting only in damage to a vehicle which is driven or attended by any person
shall immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of such accident or as close
thereto as possible but shall forthwith return to and in every event shall
remain at the scene of such accident until the driver has fulfilled the
requirements of Section 121. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing
traffic more than is necessary. ('91 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.262]
SEC. 121.   INFORMATION AND AID.
121.   INFORMATION AND AID.   1.   The driver of a vehicle involved in an
accident resulting in injury to or death of a person or damage to a vehicle
which is driven or attended by a person shall give the driver's name, address,
and the registration number of the vehicle the driver is driving and shall upon
request and if available exhibit the person’s driver's license to the person
struck, the driver or occupant of, or the person attending the vehicle involved
in the accident and shall render to a person injured in the accident reasonable
assistance, including the transporting or arranging for the transporting of the
person for medical treatment if it is apparent that medical treatment is
necessary or if transportation for medical treatment is requested by the
injured person.
   2.   If the accident causes the death of a person, all surviving drivers
shall remain at the scene of the accident except to seek necessary aid or to
report the accident to law enforcement authorities. Before leaving the scene of
the fatal accident, each surviving driver shall leave the surviving person’s
driver's license, automobile registration receipt, or other identification data
at the scene of the accident. After leaving the scene of the accident, a
surviving driver shall promptly report the accident to law enforcement
authorities, and shall immediately return to the scene of the accident or
inform the law enforcement authorities where the surviving driver can be
located.
('91 Rev.; ’99 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.263]
SEC. 122.   STRIKING UNATTENDED VEHICLE.
122.   STRIKING UNATTENDED VEHICLE.The driver of any vehicle which collides
with any vehicle which is unattended shall immediately stop and shall then and
there either locate and notify the operator or owner of such vehicle of the
name and address of the driver and owner of the vehicle striking the unattended
vehicle or shall leave in a conspicuous place in the vehicle struck a written
notice giving the name and address of the driver and of the owner of the
vehicle doing the striking and a statement of the circumstances thereof. ('91
Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.264]
SEC. 123.   STRIKING FIXTURES UPON A HIGHWAY.
123.   STRIKING FIXTURES UPON A HIGHWAY.The driver of any vehicle involved in
an accident resulting in damage to property legally upon or adjacent to a
highway shall take reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner, a peace
officer, or person in charge of the damaged property of the damage and shall
inform the person of the driver's name and address and the registration number
of the vehicle causing the damage and shall, upon request and if available,
exhibit the driver's license of the driver of the vehicle and shall report the
accident when and as required. ('91 Rev.; ’99 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.265]
SEC. 124.   REPORTING ACCIDENTS.
124.   REPORTING ACCIDENTS.That Iowa Code §321.266 (1), (2), and (3), Reporting
accidents, is hereby adopted by reference. All amendments to Iowa Code §321.266
(1), (2), and (3) shall automatically modify this Code.
   "1.   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury to
or death of any person shall immediately by the quickest means of communication
give notice of such accident to the sheriff of the county in which said
accident occurred, or the nearest office of the state patrol, or to any other
peace officer as near as practicable to the place where the accident occurred.
   2.   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury to
or death of any person, or total property damage to an apparent extent of one
thousand five hundred dollars or more shall, within seventy-two hours after the
accident, forward a written report of the accident to the department. However,
such report is not required when the accident is investigated by a law
enforcement agency.
   3.   Every law enforcement officer who, in the regular course of duty,
investigates a motor vehicle accident of which report must be made as required
in subsections l to 3 of this section, either at the time of and at the scene
of the accident or thereafter by interviewing participants or witnesses shall,
within twenty-four hours after completing such investigation, forward a written
report of such accident to the department."
(Ord. #3256, 1/17/83; '91 Rev.; ’97 Rev.; ’99 Rev.; 03 Rev.; ’10 Rev.) [Iowa
Code §321.266 (1), (2), and (3)]
SEC. 125.   DRIVER UNABLE TO REPORT.
125.   DRIVER UNABLE TO REPORT.Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically
incapable of making a required accident report and there was another occupant
in the vehicle at the time of the accident capable of making a report, such
occupant shall make or cause to be made said report. [Ref. Iowa Code §321.268]
SEC. 126-136. RESERVED.
RECKLESS DRIVING AND DRAG RACING
SEC. 137.   CARELESS DRIVING.
137.   CARELESS DRIVING.   A person commits careless driving if the person
intentionally operates a motor vehicle on a public road or highway in any one
of the following ways:
   1.   Creates or causes unnecessary tire squealing, skidding, or sliding upon
acceleration or stopping.
   2.   Simulates a temporary race.
   3.   Causes any wheel or wheels to unnecessarily lose contact with the
ground.
   4.   Causes the vehicle to unnecessarily turn abruptly or sway.
   The scheduled fine for violation of this section is Twenty-five Dollars
($25.00).
(Ord. #4247, 8/18/97; ’99 Rev.) [Iowa Code §321.277A]
SEC. 138.   RECKLESS DRIVING.
138.   RECKLESS DRIVING.Any person who drives any vehicle in such manner as to
indicate either a willful or a wanton disregard for the safety of persons or
property is guilty of reckless driving. Every person convicted of reckless
driving shall be guilty of a simple misdemeanor. [Ref. Iowa Code §321.277]
SEC. 139.   DRAG RACING PROHIBITED.
139.   DRAG RACING PROHIBITED.No person shall engage in any motor vehicle speed
contest or exhibition of speed on any street or highway of this city and no
person shall aid or abet any motor vehicle speed contest or speed exhibition on
any street or highway of this city, except that a passenger shall not be
considered as aiding and abetting. Motor vehicle speed contest or exhibition of
speed are defined as one or more persons competing in speed in excess of the
applicable speed limit in vehicles on the public streets or highways. [Ref.
Iowa Code §321.278]
SEC. 140-149. RESERVED.
SPEED RESTRICTIONS
SEC. 150.   SPEED RESTRICTIONS.
150.   SPEED RESTRICTIONS.   1.   Any person driving a motor vehicle on a
highway shall drive the same at a careful and prudent speed not greater than
nor less than is reasonable and proper, having due regard to the traffic,
surface and width of the highway and of any other conditions then existing, and
no person shall drive any vehicle upon a highway at a speed greater than will
permit the person to bring it to a stop within the assured clear distance
ahead, such driver having the right to assume, however, that all persons using
said highway will observe the law.
   2.   a.   Unless otherwise provided by this section, or posted otherwise,
the following shall be the lawful speed and any speed in excess thereof shall
be unlawful:
         (1)   Twenty miles per hour in any business district.
         (2)   Twenty-five miles per hour in any residence or school district.
Forty-five miles per hour in any suburban district.
      b.   Each school district as defined in Iowa Code §321.1(70) shall be
marked by distinctive signs as provided by the current manual of uniform
traffic control devices adopted by the department and placed on the highway at
the limits of such school district.
   3.   Unless otherwise provided in this section or by other speed
restrictions, the speed limit for all vehicular traffic shall be fifty-five
miles per hour.
   4.   A reasonable and proper speed is required, but not greater than fifty-
five miles per hour at any time between sunrise and sunset, and not greater
than fifty miles per hour at any time between sunset and sunrise, on secondary
roads unless such roads are surfaced with concrete or asphalt or a combination
of both, in which case the speed limits shall be the same as provided in
subsection 3.
   5.   a.   Notwithstanding any other speed restrictions, the speed limits for
all vehicular traffic on fully controlled-access, divided, multilaned highways
is sixty-five miles per hour. However, the speed limit for all vehicular
traffic on highways that are part of the interstate road system is seventy
miles per hour.
      b.   The department may establish a speed limit of sixty-five miles per
hour on certain divided, multilaned highways not otherwise described in this
paragraph. The department, on its own motion or in response to a recommendation
of a metropolitan or regional planning commission or council of governments,
may establish a lower speed limit on a highway described in this subsection.
      c.   For the purposes of this subsection, “fully controlled-access
highway” means a highway that gives preference to through traffic by providing
access connections with selected public roads only and by prohibiting crossings
at grade or direct private driveway connections.
      d.   A minimum speed may be established by the department on the highways
referred to in this subsection if warranted by engineering and traffic
investigations.
      e.   Any kind of vehicle, implement, or conveyance incapable of attaining
and maintaining a speed of forty miles per hour shall be prohibited from using
the interstate road system.
   6.   Notwithstanding any other speed restrictions, a self-propelled
implement of husbandry equipped with flotation tires that is designed to be
loaded and operated in the field and used exclusively for the application of
organic or inorganic plant food materials, agricultural limestone, or
agricultural chemicals shall not be operated on a highway at a speed in excess
of thirty-five miles per hour.
('91 Rev.; '95 Rev.; '96 Rev.; ’06 Rev.; ’08 Rev.; ’10 Rev.) [Allowed 65 mph on
certain multilaned highways effective 5/16/96] [Ref. Iowa Code §321.285]
SEC. 151.   INCREASING SPEED LIMITS IN CERTAIN AREAS.
151.   INCREASING SPEED LIMITS IN CERTAIN AREAS.Speeds as stated in Section 541
in excess of those stated in Section 150 hereof are hereby authorized on the
streets or portions thereof as designated in Section 541 of this ordinance upon
the posting of signs giving notice thereof. [Ref. Iowa Code §321.293]
SEC. 152.   TRUCK SPEED LIMITS.
152.   TRUCK SPEED LIMITS.Repealed by Iowa Code (1993). ('91 Rev.; '95 Rev.)
[Ref. Iowa Code §321.286 (1995)]
SEC. 153.   BUS SPEED LIMITS.
153.   BUS SPEED LIMITS.Repealed by Iowa Code (1993). ('91 Rev.; '95 Rev.)
[Iowa Code §321.287 (1995)]
SEC. 154.   CONTROL OF VEHICLE
154.   CONTROL OF VEHICLEA person operating a motor vehicle shall have the
vehicle under control at all times and shall reduce the speed to a reasonable
and proper rate:
   1.   When approaching and passing a person walking in the traveled portion
of a public street.
   2.   When approaching and passing an animal which is being led, ridden, or
driven upon a public street.
   3.   When approaching and traversing a crossing or intersection of public
streets, or a bridge, sharp turn, curve, or steep descent in a public street.
   4.   When approaching and passing an emergency vehicle displaying a
revolving or flashing light.
   5.   When approaching and passing a slow moving vehicle displaying a
reflective device or alternative reflective device as provided by Iowa Code
§321.383.
   6.   When approaching and passing through a sign posted road work zone upon
a public street.
('91 Rev.; '95 Rev.; Ord. #4247, 8/18/97; ’99 Rev.; ’00 Rev.) [Iowa Code
§321.288]
SEC. 155.   MAINTAIN LOOKOUT.
155.   MAINTAIN LOOKOUT.The driver of a motor vehicle shall maintain a proper
lookout at all times.
SEC. 156.   FAILURE TO STOP IN THE ASSURED CLEAR DISTANCE AHEAD.
156.   FAILURE TO STOP IN THE ASSURED CLEAR DISTANCE AHEAD.No person shall
drive any vehicle upon a highway at a speed greater than will permit the driver
to bring the vehicle to a stop within the assured clear distance ahead, such
driver having the right to assume, however, that all persons using said highway
will observe the law. ('91 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.285]
SEC. 157.   INFORMATION OR NOTICE.
157.   INFORMATION OR NOTICE.In every charge of violation of Sections 150 and
151 of this ordinance, the information, also the notice to appear, shall
specify the speed at which the defendant is alleged to have driven, also the
speed limit applicable within the district or at the location. ('95 Rev.) [Ref.
Iowa Code §321.291]
SEC. 158.   SPEED SIGNS -DUTY TO INSTALL.
158.   SPEED SIGNS -DUTY TO INSTALL.On all streets other than primary roads and
extensions of primary roads, there shall be erected by the City suitable
standard signs or street markings showing the points at which the rate of speed
changes and the maximum rate of speed in the district which the vehicle is
entering. [Ref. Iowa Code §321.289]
SEC. 159.   MINIMUM SPEED REGULATIONS.
159.   MINIMUM SPEED REGULATIONS.A person shall not drive a motor vehicle at
such a slow speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of
traffic except when reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or in
compliance with law. Peace officers are hereby authorized to enforce this
provision by directions to drivers, and in the event of apparent willful
disobedience to this provision and refusal to comply with directions of an
officer in accordance herewith the continued slow operation by a driver shall
be a simple misdemeanor. The scheduled fine is Thirty-five Dollars ($35.00).
('91 Rev.; ’00 Rev.; Ord. #4552, 5/20/02) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.294]
SEC. 160.   CIVIL ACTION UNAFFECTED.
160.   CIVIL ACTION UNAFFECTED.The provisions of Sections 150 and 151 of this
ordinance shall not be construed to relieve the plaintiff in any civil action
from the burden of proving negligence upon the part of the defendant as the
proximate cause of an accident. ('95 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.292]
SEC. 161.   LIMITATION ON BRIDGE OR ELEVATED STRUCTURES.
161.   LIMITATION ON BRIDGE OR ELEVATED STRUCTURES.   1.   A person shall not
drive a vehicle on any public bridge or elevated structure at a speed which is
greater than the maximum speed permitted under this ordinance on the street or
highway at a point where said street or highway joins said bridge or elevated
structure. However, if the maximum speed permitted on said street or highway
differs from the maximum speed on any other street or highway joining said
bridge or elevated structure, then the lowest of those maximum speeds shall be
the maximum speed limit on said bridge or elevated structure, unless the
department upon request from any local authority, or upon its own initiative
has conducted an investigation of the bridge or other elevated structure
constituting a part of the highway, and has found that the structure cannot
with safety to itself withstand vehicles traveling at the speed otherwise
permissible under this ordinance. Under those circumstances, the department
shall determine and declare the maximum speed of vehicles which thr structure
can withstand, and shall cause or permit suitable signs stating such maximum
speed to be erected and maintained at a distance of two hundred feet before
each end of such structure.
   2.   A person shall not drive a vehicle over any bridge or other elevated
structure constituting a part of a highway at a speed which is greater than the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure,
when the structure is sign-posted as provided in this ordinance.
   3.   Upon the trial of any person charged with driving a vehicle at a speed
which is greater than the maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to
such bridge or structure, proof of such determination of the maximum speed by
said department and the existence of said signs shall constitute conclusive
evidence of the maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such
bridge or structure.
('91 Rev.; Ord. #5006, 9/13/10) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.295]
SEC. 162-172. RESERVED.
DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY -OVERTAKING AND PASSING, ETC.
SEC. 173.   FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
173.   FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.The driver of any motor vehicle shall not follow
another vehicle more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard
for the speed of such vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the
street. [Ref. Iowa Code §321.307]
SEC. 174.   TRAVELING ON RIGHT-HAND SIDE.
174.   TRAVELING ON RIGHT-HAND SIDE.A vehicle shall be driven upon the right
half of the roadway upon all roadways of sufficient width, except as follows:
   a.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement.
   b.   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left of
the center of the roadway, provided, any person so doing shall yield the right
of way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the unobstructed
portion of the roadway within such distance as to constitute an immediate
hazard.
   c.   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under the
rules applicable thereon.
   d.   Upon a roadway restricted to one-way traffic.
('91 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.297]
SEC. 175.   MEETING ON PUBLIC HIGHWAYS OR STREETS.
175.   MEETING ON PUBLIC HIGHWAYS OR STREETS.Persons on horseback, or in
vehicles, including motor vehicles meeting each other on the public streets
shall give one-half of the traveled way thereof by turning to the right. [Ref.
Iowa Code §321.297, 298]
SEC. 176.   OVERTAKING A VEHICLE.
176.   OVERTAKING A VEHICLE.The following rules shall govern the overtaking and
passing of vehicles proceeding in the same direction, subject to those
limitations, exceptions, and special rules hereinafter stated:
   1.   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left of the other vehicle at a safe distance
and shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear
of the overtaken vehicle.
   2.   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle and shall not increase the speed of the overtaken vehicle
until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
('91 Rev.; Ord. #5006, 9/13/10) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.299]
SEC. 177.   PASSING ON THE RIGHT SIDE.
177.   PASSING ON THE RIGHT SIDE.   Unless otherwise prohibited by law, the
driver of a vehicle on a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width
for two or more lanes of traffic moving in the same direction as the vehicle
being passed may overtake and pass upon the right of another vehicle which is
making or about to make a left turn when such movement can be made in safety.
The scheduled fine is $100.00. (Ord. #4666, 2/2/04) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.302]
SEC. 178.   OVERTAKING AND PASSING A VEHICLE WITH UNOBSTRUCTED PAVEMENT OF
SUFFICIENT WIDTH FOR FOUR OR MORE LANES.
178.   OVERTAKING AND PASSING A VEHICLE WITH UNOBSTRUCTED PAVEMENT OF
SUFFICIENT WIDTH FOR FOUR OR MORE LANES.   Unless otherwise prohibited by law,
the driver of a vehicle may overtake and, allowing sufficient clearance, pass
another vehicle proceeding in the same direction either upon the left or upon
the right on a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for four
or more lanes of moving traffic when such movement can be made in safety. The
driver of a vehicle shall not drive off the pavement or upon the shoulder of
the roadway or upon the apron or roadway of an intersecting roadway in
overtaking or passing on the right or the left. The scheduled fine is $100.00.
(Ord. #4666, 2/2/04) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.302]
SEC. 179.   ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
179.   ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.Whenever any roadway has been divided into
three or more clearly marked lanes for traffic the following rules in addition
to all others consistent herewith shall apply:
A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practical entirely within a single lane
and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first ascertained
that such movement can be made with safety.
If a roadway is divided into three lanes, a vehicle shall not be driven in the
center lane except as follows:
   a.    When overtaking and passing another vehicle where the roadway is
clearly visible and such center lane is clear of traffic within a safe
distance.
   b.    In preparation for a left turn or where such center lane is at the
time allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is
proceeding and is signposted to give notice of such allocation.
Official signs may be erected directing slow-moving traffic to use a designated
lane or allocating specified lanes to traffic moving in the same direction and
drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
Vehicles moving in a lane designated for slow-moving traffic shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles moving in the same direction in a lane not so
designated when such lanes merge to form a single lane.
A portion of a highway provided with a lane for slow-moving vehicles does not
become a roadway marked for three lanes of traffic.
(Ord. #5006, 9/13/10)[Ref. Iowa Code §321.306]
SEC. 180.   OFFICIAL SIGNS OR MARKINGS DIRECTING TRAFFIC.
180.   OFFICIAL SIGNS OR MARKINGS DIRECTING TRAFFIC.Official signs or markings
may be used directing traffic to use a designated lane or allocating specified
lanes to traffic moving in the same direction and drivers of vehicles shall
obey the directions of every such sign or marking.
SEC. 181.   ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
181.   ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.Upon those streets and parts of those streets
and in those alleys designated and sign-posted for one-way traffic, vehicles,
except authorized emergency vehicles responding to an emergency call shall be
driven only in the direction designated, upon those streets and alleys or
portions thereof designated in Section 542 of this ordinance. [Ref. Iowa Code
§321.305]
SEC. 182.   LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING ON THE LEFT.
182.   LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING ON THE LEFT.A vehicle shall not be driven to
the left side of the center of the street in overtaking and passing another
vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless such left side is clearly
visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to
permit the overtaking and passing to be completely made without interfering
with the safe operation of any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction
or any vehicle overtaken. The overtaking vehicle shall return to the right-hand
side of the street before coming within three hundred feet of a vehicle
approaching from the opposite direction when traveling on a street having a
legal speed limit in excess of thirty miles per hour, and the overtaking
vehicle shall return to the right-hand side of the street before coming within
one hundred feet of a vehicle approaching from the opposite direction when
traveling on a street having a legal speed limit of thirty miles per hour or
less. ('91 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.303]
SEC. 183.   PROHIBITED PASSING.
183.   PROHIBITED PASSING.No vehicle shall in overtaking and passing another
vehicle or at any other time be driven to the left side of the street under the
following conditions:
   1.   When approaching the crest of the grade or upon a curve in the street
where the driver's view along the street is obstructed for a distance of
approximately seven hundred feet.
   2.   Except on one-way streets, when approaching within one hundred feet of
any narrow bridge, viaduct or tunnel, when so sign-posted, or when approaching
within one hundred feet of or traversing any intersection or railroad grade
crossing.
   3.   When official signs are in place directing that traffic keep to the
right or a distinctive line also directs traffic as declared in the sign manual
adopted by the Department of Transportation.
[Ref. Iowa Code §321.304]
SEC. 184-194. RESERVED.
TURNING AND STARTING AND SIGNALS ON STOPPING AND TURNING
SEC. 195.   TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
195.   TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an
intersection shall do as follows:
   Both the approach for a right turn and right turn shall be made as close as
practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   Approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of
the roadway nearest the center line thereof and after entering the intersection
the left turn shall be made so as to depart from the intersection to the right
of the center line of the roadway being entered.
   Approach for a left turn from a two-way street into a one-way street shall
be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the center
line thereof and by passing to the right of such center line where it enters
the intersection. A left turn from a one-way street into two-way street shall
be made by passing to the right of the center line of the street being entered
upon leaving the intersection.
[Ref. Iowa Code §321.311]
SEC. 196.   TURNING MARKERS, BUTTONS AND SIGNS.
196.   TURNING MARKERS, BUTTONS AND SIGNS.The City of Waterloo may cause
markers, buttons, or signs to be placed within or adjacent to intersections,
and thereby require and direct, as traffic conditions require, that a different
course from that specified in Section 195 be traveled by vehicles turning at
intersections, and when markers, buttons, or signs are so placed, no driver of
a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other than as directed and
required by such markers, buttons, or signs. ('91 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code
§321.311]
SEC. 197.   TURNING ON CURVE OR CREST OF GRADE.
197.   TURNING ON CURVE OR CREST OF GRADE.No vehicles shall be turned so as to
proceed in the opposite direction upon any curve or on the approach to, or near
the crest of a grade or hill, where such vehicle cannot be seen by the driver
of any other vehicle approaching from either direction within five hundred
feet. [Ref. Iowa Code §321.312]
SEC. 198.   WHEN SIGNAL REQUIRED.
198.   WHEN SIGNAL REQUIRED.No person shall turn a vehicle from a direct course
upon a highway or street unless and until such movement can be made with
reasonable safety and then only after giving a clearly audible signal by
sounding the horn if any pedestrian may be affected by such movement or after
giving an appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided in the event
any other vehicle may be affected by such movement. [Ref. Iowa Code §321.314]
SEC. 199.   SIGNAL CONTINUOUS.
199.   SIGNAL CONTINUOUS.A signal of intention to turn right or left shall be
given continuously during not less than the last one hundred feet traveled by
the vehicle before turning when the speed limit is forty-five miles per hour or
less and a continuous signal during not less than the last three hundred feet
when the speed limit is in excess of forty-five miles per hour. [Ref. Iowa Code
§321.315]
SEC. 200.   STOPPING.
200.   STOPPING.No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a
vehicle without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided
herein to the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is
opportunity to give such signal. [Ref. Iowa Code §321.316]
SEC. 201.   STARTING PARKED VEHICLE.
201.   STARTING PARKED VEHICLE.No person shall start a vehicle which is
stopped, standing, or parked unless and until such movement can be made with
reasonable safety.
It shall be unlawful to enter or exit from a vehicle on the side of said
vehicle which is exposed to traffic, when such movement would interfere with
the normal flow of traffic.
[Ref. Iowa Code §321.313]
SEC. 202.   SIGNALS BY HAND AND ARM OR SIGNAL DEVICE.
202.   SIGNALS BY HAND AND ARM OR SIGNAL DEVICE.   1.   The signals required
under the provisions of this ordinance may be given either by means of the hand
and arm as provided in Section 203 or by a mechanical or electrical directional
signal device or light conforming to the provisions of this ordinance.
   2.   Directional signal devices shall be designed with a white, yellow or
amber lamp or lamps to be displayed on the front of vehicles and with a lamp or
lamps of red, yellow or amber to be displayed on the rear of vehicles. Such
devices shall be capable of clearly indicating any intention to turn either to
the right or to the left and shall be visible and understandable during both
daylight and darkness from a distance of at least one hundred feet from the
front and rear of a vehicle equipped therewith.
   3.   Whenever any vehicle or combination of vehicles is disabled or for
other reason may present a vehicular traffic hazard requiring unusual care in
approaching, overtaking or passing, the operator of such vehicles may display
on such vehicle or combination of vehicles four directional signals of a type
complying with the provisions of this ordinance relating to directional signal
devices in simultaneous operation. ('91 Rev.; Ord. #4247, 8/18/97; ’99 Rev.)
[Ref. Iowa Code §321.317]
SEC. 203.   SIGNALS GIVEN FROM THE LEFT SIDE OF VEHICLE.
203.   SIGNALS GIVEN FROM THE LEFT SIDE OF VEHICLE.All signals herein required
which may be given by hand and arm shall, when so given, be given from the left
side of a vehicle and the following manner and interpretation thereof is
suggested:
   1.   Left Turn. Hand and arm extended horizontally.
   2.   Right Turn. Hand and arm extended upward.
   3.   Stop or Decrease of Speed. Hand and arm extended downward.
[Ref. Iowa Code §321.318]
SEC. 204.   SIGNALS IN GOOD WORKING ORDER.
204.   SIGNALS IN GOOD WORKING ORDER.When a vehicle is equipped with a
directional signal device, such device shall at all times be maintained in good
working condition. No directional signal device shall project a glaring or
dazzling light. All directional signal devices shall be self- illuminated when
in use while other lamps on the vehicle are lighted. [Ref. Iowa Code §321.317]
SEC. 205.   AUTHORITY TO PLACE RESTRICTED TURN SIGNS.
205.   AUTHORITY TO PLACE RESTRICTED TURN SIGNS.The Traffic Operations
Department is hereby authorized to determine those intersections, as traffic
conditions require, at which the drivers of vehicles shall not make a right or
left turn. The making of such turns may be prohibited between certain hours of
any day and at other hours, in which event the same shall be plainly indicated
on signs. (Ord. #3256, 1/17/83; '91 Rev.)
SEC. 206.   OBEDIENCE TO NO-TURN SIGNS.
206.   OBEDIENCE TO NO-TURN SIGNS.Whenever authorized signs are erected
indicating that no right or left turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle
shall disobey the directions of any such signs.
SEC. 207.   "U" TURNS.
207.   U TURNS.It shall be unlawful for a driver to make a "U" turn except at
an intersection, provided however, that "U" turns are prohibited at
intersections within the business district and at intersections where there are
automatic traffic signals, unless otherwise posted.
SEC. 208-217. RESERVED.
RIGHT OF WAY
SEC. 218.   ENTERING INTERSECTIONS FROM DIFFERENT HIGHWAYS.
218.   ENTERING INTERSECTIONS FROM DIFFERENT HIGHWAYS.When two vehicles enter
an intersection from different highways or public streets at approximately the
same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right of way
to the vehicle on the right.
The foregoing rule is modified at through highways and otherwise as hereinafter
stated in this ordinance. [Ref. Iowa Code §321.319]
SEC. 219.   LEFT TURNS--YIELDING.
219.   LEFT TURNS--YIELDING.The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the
left within an intersection or into an alley, private road or driveway shall
yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching from the opposite direction
which are within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an
immediate hazard, then said driver, having so yielded and having given a signal
when and as required by this ordinance, may make such left turn. [Ref. Iowa
Code §321.320]
SEC. 220.   ENTERING THROUGH HIGHWAYS OR STREETS.
220.   ENTERING THROUGH HIGHWAYS OR STREETS.The driver of a vehicle shall stop
or yield as required by this ordinance at the entrance to a through highway or
street and shall yield the right of way to other vehicles which have entered
the intersection from said through highway or street or which are approaching
so closely on said through highway as to constitute a hazard, but said driver
having so yielded may proceed cautiously and with due care enter said through
highway or street. For designated through streets see
Section 543 of this ordinance. [Ref. Iowa Code §321.321]
SEC. 221.   ENTERING STOP INTERSECTION.
221.   ENTERING STOP INTERSECTION.The driver of a vehicle approaching a stop
intersection indicated by a stop sign shall stop at the first opportunity at
either the clearly marked stop line or before entering the crosswalk or before
entering the intersection or at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering the intersection. Before proceeding, the driver shall yield the
right of way to any vehicle on the intersecting roadway which has entered the
intersection or which is approaching so closely as to constitute an immediate
hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the intersection.
('95 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.322(1)]
SEC. 222.   ENTERING YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
222.   ENTERING YIELD INTERSECTIONS.The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield
sign shall slow to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions and, if
required for safety, shall stop at the first opportunity at either the clearly
marked stop line or before entering the crosswalk or before entering the
intersection or at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver
has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. After slowing or
stopping, the driver shall yield the right of way to any vehicle on the
intersecting roadway which has entered the intersection or which is approaching
so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver is
moving across or within the intersection. ('91 Rev.; '95 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code
§321.322(2)]
SEC. 223.   YIELD STREETS.
223.   YIELD STREETS.The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way as
required in Section 222 when the driver's vehicle is entering upon a yield
street as designated in Section 545 of this ordinance. ('91 Rev.)
SEC. 224.   YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
224.   YIELD INTERSECTIONS.The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way
as required in Section 222 at special yield intersections when the driver is
entering unto the yield street as designated in Section 546 of this ordinance.
('91 Rev.)
SEC. 225.   BACKING VEHICLE ON HIGHWAY.
225.   BACKING VEHICLE ON HIGHWAY.A person shall not cause a vehicle to be
moved in a backward direction on a highway unless and until the vehicle can be
backed with reasonable safety, and shall yield the right of way to any
approaching vehicle on the street or highway or intersecting street or highway
which is so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard. ('91 Rev.)
[Ref. Iowa Code §321.323]
SEC. 226-235. RESERVED.
PEDESTRIANS' RIGHTS AND DUTIES
SEC. 236.   PEDESTRIANS SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS.
236.   PEDESTRIANS SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS.Pedestrians shall be
subject to traffic-control signals as heretofore declared in this ordinance,
but at all other places pedestrians shall be accorded the privileges and shall
be subject to the restrictions stated in Section 237 through 239 and Section
245 of this ordinance. [Ref. Iowa Code §321.325]
SEC. 237.   PEDESTRIANS RIGHT OF WAY.
237.   PEDESTRIANS RIGHT OF WAY.Where traffic-control signals are not in place
or in operation, the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way, slowing
down or stopping if need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway
within any marked crosswalk or within any unmarked crosswalk at an
intersection, except as otherwise provided in this ordinance. The scheduled
fine is $100.00. [Ref. Iowa Code §321.327]
SEC. 238.   CROSSING AT OTHER THAN CROSSWALK.
238.   CROSSING AT OTHER THAN CROSSWALK.Every pedestrian crossing a street or
highway in this City at any point other than within a marked crosswalk or
within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield the right of way to
all vehicles upon the roadway. Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point
where a pedestrian tunnel or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided,
shall yield the right of way to all vehicles upon the roadway. Where traffic-
control signals are in operation at any place not an intersection pedestrians
shall not cross at any place except in a marked crosswalk. [Ref. Iowa Code
§321.328]
SEC. 239.   DUTY OF DRIVER--PEDESTRIANS CROSSING OR WORKING ON HIGHWAYS.
239.   DUTY OF DRIVER--PEDESTRIANS CROSSING OR WORKING ON
HIGHWAYS.Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 238, every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall
exercise due care upon observing any child or any confused or incapacitated
person upon a roadway.
Every driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way to pedestrian workers
engaged in maintenance or construction work on a highway whenever the driver is
notified of the presence of such workers by a flagman or a warning sign.
[Ref. Iowa Code §321.329]
SEC. 240.   PROHIBITED CROSSING.
240.   PROHIBITED CROSSING.Pedestrians crossing a street in the business
district shall cross in the crosswalks only.
SEC . 241.   PEDESTRIANS ON LEFT.
241.   PEDESTRIANS ON LEFT.Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful
for any pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway. Where sidewalks
are not provided, pedestrians shall at all times when walking on or along a
roadway walk on the left side of such roadway. [Ref. Iowa Code §321.326]
SEC. 242.   WHITE CANES RESTRICTED TO BLIND PERSONS.
242.   WHITE CANES RESTRICTED TO BLIND PERSONS.For the purpose of guarding
against accidents in traffic, on the public thoroughfares of this City it shall
be unlawful for any person except persons wholly or partially blind to carry or
use on the streets and public places of this City any white canes or walking
sticks which are white in color or white tipped with red. [Ref. Iowa Code
§321.332]
SEC. 243.   DUTY OF DRIVERS.
243.   DUTY OF DRIVERS.Any driver of a vehicle or operator of a motor-driven
vehicle who approaches or comes in contact with a person wholly or partially
blind carrying a cane or walking stick white in color or white tipped with red,
or being led by a guide dog wearing a harness and walking on either side of or
slightly in front of said blind person, shall immediately come to a complete
stop, and take such precautions as may be necessary to avoid accident or injury
to the person carrying a cane or walking stick white in color or white tipped
with red or being led by a guide dog. [Ref. Iowa Code §321.333]
SEC. 244.   PENALTIES.
244.   PENALTIES.Any person who shall carry a cane or walking stick such as
prescribed in Section 242 contrary to the provisions hereof, or who shall fail
to heed the approach of a person lawfully so carrying a cane or walking stick
white in color or white tipped in red, or being led by a guide dog, or who
shall fail to immediately come to a complete stop, and take such precautions
against accident or injury to such person, shall be fined not less than one
dollar nor more than one hundred dollars for each offense. [Ref. Iowa Code
§321.334]
SEC. 245.   PEDESTRIANS SOLICITING RIDES.
245.   PEDESTRIANS SOLICITING RIDES.No person shall stand in a roadway for the
purpose of soliciting a ride from the driver of any private vehicle.
Nothing in this section or ordinance shall be construed so as to prevent any
pedestrian from standing on that portion of the highway or roadway, not
ordinarily used for vehicular traffic, for the purpose of soliciting a ride
from the driver of any vehicle. [Ref. Iowa Code §321.331]
SEC. 246-255. RESERVED.
SPECIAL STOPS
SEC. 256.   STOPPING AT STOP SIGNS.
256.   STOPPING AT STOP SIGNS.Stop signs shall be erected at entrances to
through streets and at one or more entrances to stop intersections. Every
driver of a vehicle shall stop at such sign or at a clearly marked stop line
before entering an intersection, except when directed to proceed by a peace
officer or traffic-control signal.
SEC. 257.   STOP BEFORE CROSSING SIDEWALK--RIGHT OF WAY.
257.   STOP BEFORE CROSSING SIDEWALK--RIGHT OF WAY.The driver of a vehicle
emerging from a private roadway, alley, driveway, or building shall stop such
vehicle immediately prior to driving onto the sidewalk area and thereafter the
driver shall proceed into the sidewalk area only when the driver can do so
without danger to pedestrian traffic and the driver shall yield the right of
way to any vehicular traffic on the street into which the driver's vehicle is
entering.
The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from a private road
or driveway shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving on said
highway and shall yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching on said
highway.
('91 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.353]
SEC. 258.   STOP AT CERTAIN RAILROAD CROSSINGS.
258.   STOP AT CERTAIN RAILROAD CROSSINGS.When stop signs are erected at grade
crossings of railroads, the driver of any vehicle shall stop in accordance with
Section 259 within fifty feet but not less than ten feet from the nearest track
of such grade crossing and shall proceed only upon exercising due care. Grade
crossings where stops are required are listed in Section 547 of this ordinance.
[Ref. Iowa Code §321.342]
SEC. 259.   OBEDIENCE TO SIGNAL OF TRAIN.
259.   OBEDIENCE TO SIGNAL OF TRAIN.Whenever any person driving a vehicle
approaches a railroad grade crossing and warning is given by automatic signal
or crossing gates or a flagman or otherwise of the immediate approach of a
train, the driver of such vehicle shall stop within fifty feet but not less
than ten feet from the nearest track of such railroad and shall not proceed
until the driver can do so safely. The driver of a vehicle shall stop and
remain standing and not traverse such a grade crossing when a crossing gate is
lowered or when a human flagman gives or continues to give a signal of the
approach or passage of a train. ('91 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.341]
SEC. 260.   BUSES TO STOP AT CURB.
260.   BUSES TO STOP AT CURB.Buses shall draw up to the curb at the near side
of street intersections when loading or unloading passengers excepting at
places where spaces are otherwise designated.
SEC. 261.   CERTAIN VEHICLES MUST STOP.
261.   CERTAIN VEHICLES MUST STOP.The driver of any motor vehicle carrying
passengers for hire, a school bus, or a vehicle carrying hazardous material and
required to stop before crossing a railroad track by motor carrier safety rules
adopted by the State of Iowa, before crossing at grade any track of a railroad,
shall stop the vehicle within fifty feet but not less than fifteen feet from
the nearest rail. While stopped, the driver shall listen and look in both
directions for an approaching train, and for signals indicating the approach of
a train, and shall not proceed until the driver can do so safely.
No stop need be made at any such crossing where a police officer or traffic-
control signal directs traffic to proceed. No stop need be made at a crossing
designated by an "exempt" sign. An "exempt" sign shall be posted only where the
tracks have been partially removed on either side of the roadway.
This section shall not apply at street railway grade crossings within a
business or residence district.
('91 Rev.; '95 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.343]
SEC. 262.   STOP AT SCHOOL SIGNS.
262.   STOP AT SCHOOL SIGNS.Stop signs shall be erected at designated school
crossings as set forth in Section 573. These signs shall be so constructed as
to be able to be closed so that no portion of the sign face will be visible to
vehicular traffic when not in use. Every driver of a vehicle shall stop at such
sign or at a clearly marked stop line when such signs are in use and thereafter
the driver shall proceed only when the driver can do so without danger to
pedestrian traffic. ('91 Rev.)
SEC. 263.   SCHOOL BUSES; DISCHARGING PUPILS; REGULATIONS.
263.   SCHOOL BUSES; DISCHARGING PUPILS; REGULATIONS.   (a)   The driver of a
school bus used to transport children to and from a public or private school
shall, when stopping to receive or discharge pupils, turn on the flashing stop
warning signal lamps at a distance of not less than three hundred feet, nor
more than five hundred feet from the point where said pupils are to be received
or discharged from the bus if the speed limit at that point is forty-five miles
per hour or greater and shall turn on flashing warning lamps at a distance of
not less than one hundred fifty feet from the point where the pupils are to be
received or discharged from the bus if the speed limit at that point is less
than forty-five miles per hour. At the point of receiving or discharging
pupils, the driver of the bus shall bring the bus to a stop, turn off the amber
flashing warning lamps, turn on the red flashing warning lamps, and extend the
stop arm. After receiving or discharging pupils, the bus driver shall turn off
all flashing warning lamps, retract the stop arm and proceed on the route.
Except to the extent that reduced visibility is caused by fog, snow or other
weather conditions, a school bus shall not stop to receive or discharge pupils
unless there is at least three hundred feet of unobstructed vision in each
direction. However, the driver of a school bus is not required to use flashing
warning lamps and the stop arm when receiving or discharging pupils at a
designated loading and unloading zone at a school attendance center or at
extracurricular or educational activity locations where students exiting the
bus do not have to cross the street or highway.
      A school bus, when operating on a highway with four or more lanes, shall
not stop to load or unload pupils who must cross the highway, except at
designated stops where pupils who must cross the highway may do so at points
where there are official traffic-control devices or a police officer.
      A school bus shall, while carrying passengers, have its headlights turned
on.
   (b)   All pupils shall be received and discharged from the right front
entrance of every school bus; and if said pupils must cross the street, they
shall be required to pass in front of the bus, look in both directions, and
proceed to cross the highway only on signal from the bus driver.
   (c)   The driver of a vehicle, including the driver of a vehicle operating
on a private road or driveway, when meeting a school bus with flashing amber
warning lamps shall reduce the vehicle's speed to not more than twenty miles
per hour, and shall bring the vehicle to a complete stop when the school bus
stops and the stop signal arm is extended. The vehicle shall remain stopped
until the stop arm is retracted after which time the driver may proceed with
due caution.
   (d)   The driver of a vehicle, including the driver of a vehicle operating
on a private road or driveway, overtaking a school bus shall not pass a school
bus when red or amber warning signal lights are flashing. The driver shall
bring the vehicle to a complete stop no closer than fifteen feet from the
school bus when it is stopped and the stop arm is extended, and the vehicle
shall remain stopped until the stop arm is retracted and the school bus resumes
motion.
   (e)   The driver of a vehicle upon a highway providing two or more lanes in
each direction need not stop upon meeting a school bus which is traveling in
the opposite direction even though the school bus is stopped.
(Ord. #2652, 10/1/73; '95 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.372]
SEC. 264-270. RESERVED.
STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING
SEC. 271.   STOPPING ON TRAVELED WAY.
271.   STOPPING ON TRAVELED WAY.Upon any highway or street, a person shall not
stop, park, or leave standing a vehicle, whether attended or unattended:
   1.   Upon the paved part of the highway when it is practical to stop, park,
or leave the vehicle off that part of the highway, however, a clear and
unobstructed width of at least twenty feet of the paved part of the highway
opposite the standing vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other
vehicles. As used in this subsection, "paved highway" includes an asphalt
surfaced highway.
   2.   Upon the main traveled part of a highway other than a paved highway
when it is practical to stop, park, or leave the vehicle off that part of the
highway. However, a clear and unobstructed width of that part of the highway
opposite the standing vehicle shall be left to allow for the free passage of
other vehicles.
A clear view of the stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of two
hundred feet in each direction upon the highway. However, school buses may stop
in the highway for receiving and discharging pupils and all other vehicles
shall stop for school buses which are stopped to receive or discharge pupils,
as provided in Section 263 of this Code or Iowa Code §321.372. This section
does not apply to a vehicle making a turn as provided in Sections 195 and 196
of this Code or Iowa Code §321.311. This section also does not apply to the
stopping or parking of a maintenance vehicle operated by a government authority
on the main traveled way of any roadway when necessary to the function being
performed and when early warning devices are properly displayed.
(Ord. #3857, 4/20/92; ’99 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.354]
SEC. 272.   AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES.
272.   AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES.The Waterloo Police Department, parking
enforcement officers, code enforcement officers, and any other persons
authorized by Resolution of the City Council are hereby authorized as the
enforcement agencies for all parking regulations. (Ord. #3591, 10/24/88; '91
Rev.; Ord. #4450, 12/11/00)
SEC. 273.   NO PARKING.
273.   NO PARKING.Except as herein provided, no person shall stop, stand, or
park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control devices,
in any of the following places:
   1.   On a sidewalk, except a bicycle may stop, stand, or park on a sidewalk
as long as the bicycle does not obstruct pedestrian traffic.
   2.   In front of a public or private driveway or within (5) five feet where
the driveway intersects with the street. (Ord. #5537,1/27/2020).
   3.   Within an intersection.
   4.   Within five feet of a fire hydrant.
   5.   On a crosswalk.
   6.   Within ten feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign, or
traffic-control signal located at the side of the roadway.
   7.   Within fifty feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing, except
when parked parallel with such rail and not exhibiting a red light.
   8.   Within twenty feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on
the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within seventy-
five feet of said entrance when properly signposted.
   9.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when such
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic.
   10.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of street.
   11.   At any place where official signs or curb markings prohibit.
   12.   Within ten (10) feet of a crosswalk at all intersections within the
City of Waterloo, Iowa.
   13.   Upon any bridge or underpass in the City of Waterloo, Iowa.
   14.   In any public or private alley of this City in such a manner that
ingress or egress of vehicular traffic to or from such alley might be blocked.
(Ord. #3539, 4/4/88)
   15.   Repealed by Ord. #3539, 4/4/88.
   16.   On that part of any street in the City of Waterloo between the curb
line, if there be a curb, and the property line of the abutting property, nor
shall any vehicle be parked on the that part of any city street not having a
curb between the edge of the traveled portion of said street and property line
of the abutting property, commonly referred to as “the parking” (hereinafter
“the parking”). However, where lawfully authorized signs are erected by the
City of Waterloo, patrons to any business adjacent to “the parking” are
excepted from the prohibition of the foregoing paragraph. Under no
circumstances may any of the work for any patron’s vehicle be performed on “the
parking”, nor shall any vehicle be left on “the parking” after normal business
hours, which shall include but not be limited to any overnight parking of said
vehicle. Any other vehicles, including but not limited to those owned or
operated by any business adjacent to “the parking” are prohibited from
stopping, standing, or parking any of said vehicles on the “the parking”. Any
business that desires to permit parking on “the parking”, shall apply to the
City Council for said permit. The City Council shall make its determination as
to which business may have said parking based upon the following non-exclusive
factors:
      a.    That said parking must be paved in accordance with standards
established by the city engineer;
      b.    That there shall be no such parking on arterial streets, which is
defined as any area in which the speed limit is over 30 mph;
      c.    That there shall be no parking on, around, or about curves or
conflict areas;
      d.    No part of any vehicle parked shall protrude onto the traveled
portion of the roadway and/or sidewalk.
(Ord. #5537, 1/27/2020)
   17.   On any street or in any city owned parking lot or ramp in the City of
Waterloo for a continuous period of more than 48 hours, except for monthly
parking as provided in Sections 311 and 344. The violation of this subsection
shall constitute said vehicle a nuisance to be abated as by law provided, or
members of the police department may impound such vehicle as hereinafter
provided. For the purpose of the regulations herein provided, any vehicle not
moved out of the block during the specified and designated parking periods,
shall be deemed to have remained stationary. City of Waterloo personnel in
charge of city-owned parking lots and ramps are hereby authorized to have such
vehicle towed.
(Ord. #3591, 10/24/88; '91 Rev.; Ord. #4082, 3/13/95) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.358]
SEC. 274.   METHOD OF PARKING.
274.   METHOD OF PARKING.Except where angle parking is permitted and on one-way
streets, every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an
adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of such
vehicle parallel with and within eighteen inches (18") of the right-hand curb.
On one-way streets vehicles may also be parked with the left-hand wheels
parallel with and within eighteen inches (18") of the left-hand curb. [Ref.
Iowa Code §321.361]
SEC. 275.   THEATERS, HOTELS AND AUDITORIUMS.
275.   THEATERS, HOTELS AND AUDITORIUMS.A space, not to exceed 50 feet, is
hereby reserved at the side of the street in front of any theater, auditorium,
hotel having more than twenty-five sleeping rooms, or other buildings where
large assemblages of people are being held, within which space, when clearly
marked as such, no motor vehicle shall be left standing, parking, or stopped
except in taking on or discharging passengers or freight, and then only for
such length of time as is necessary for such purpose. [Ref. Iowa Code §321.360]
SEC. 276.   BUS AND TAXI ZONES.
276.   BUS AND TAXI ZONES.Where spaces have been set apart by signs or markings
for bus stops or taxi zones, it shall be unlawful during the hours of bus or
taxi operations for the operator of any vehicle, other than a bus or taxi to
stand or park in any such officially designated bus stop or taxi zone except
that the operator of any passenger vehicle may temporarily stop in any such bus
space to stop or taxi zone for the purpose of, and while actually engaged in
the loading of or unloading of passengers. No vehicles except licensed taxis
shall be stopped or parked in any of the taxi cab stands as designated in
Section 550 of this ordinance. No vehicle except buses shall be stopped or
parked in any of the bus zones as designated in Section 548 of this ordinance
from 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. except Sunday.
SEC. 277.   LOADING ZONES OR GRAB-N-GO ZONES.
277.   LOADING ZONES.When signs are erected giving notice of “Loading Zone” or
“Grab-n-Go” – no person shall park any vehicle upon any of the streets or
portions thereof as designated in Section 549 of this Ordinance, except when
actually engaged in the loading or unloading of passengers of merchandise.
SEC. 278.   VEHICLES NOT TO BE MOVED.
278.   VEHICLES NOT TO BE MOVED.No person shall move a vehicle not owned by
such person into any prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is
unlawful. [Ref. Iowa Code §321.359]
SEC. 279.   TRUCK AND BUS PARKING PROHIBITED.
279.   TRUCK AND BUS PARKING PROHIBITED.No person shall park a motor truck,
implement of husbandry, special mobile unit, van or other vehicle used for the
carrying of freight or persons on any residential street in the city, or on the
following commercial streets: Cyclone Drive, Titan Trail and Athens Drive,
except when making a delivery or picking up persons or freight on said street
and when doing so shall park only for a length of time reasonably necessary to
perform said function.
Nothing in this ordinance shall prevent the parking of a light delivery truck,
panel delivery truck or pick-up truck on a residential street. A school bus may
park on a residential street only on those days that school is in session and
only between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. (Ord. #3758, 12/17/90; Ord.
#5642, 5/2/22)
SEC. 280.   TRUCKS -METHOD OF PARKING.
280.   TRUCKS -METHOD OF PARKING.Moving vans or trucks or other vehicles
handling heavy freight, merchandise, or materials shall be permitted to back
into the curb and park at an angle, with the traffic, of not more than forty-
five degrees, to take on or discharge loads, but permission for such angle
parking in areas on through streets and in the business district where angle
parking is not otherwise permitted, shall be first obtained from the Chief of
Police. In all such cases, the vehicle shall not remain so parked longer than
the actual loading or unloading requires.
SEC. 281.   LOADING OR UNLOADING FROM ALLEY.
281.   LOADING OR UNLOADING FROM ALLEY.Loading or unloading of merchandise,
freight or materials shall not be done from a street in the business district
where the same can be done from an alley.
SEC. 282.   PARKING IN ALLEY.
282.   PARKING IN ALLEY.It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle in any alley
under any fire escape at any time.
SEC. 283.   BACKING INTO PARKING SPACE.
283.   BACKING INTO PARKING SPACE.In the business district the driver of a
vehicle shall not back the same between other vehicles then standing upon the
street in order to park the driver's vehicle between such vehicles unless the
driver can do so without interfering with traffic and unless there is
sufficient space so that such vehicle when parked will be parallel with the
curb. ('91 Rev.)
SEC. 284.   REMOVING PARKED VEHICLES.
284.   REMOVING PARKED VEHICLES.Whenever a vehicle is found stopped or parked
in violation of any state law or city ordinance, or in such manner as causes a
dangerous condition to exit or whenever the owner or operator of a vehicle has
failed to report or heed a notice to appear before the proper magistrate, any
police officer or other authorized person may remove such vehicle from a
street, alley, city parking lot or ramp, city right-of-way, or any other
illegal location, to a place of safekeeping. If such vehicle must be serviced
or towed, the fee, together with any other necessary expense incurred in such
removal, shall be assessed against the vehicle and shall be paid before it is
released. (Ref. Iowa Code 321.356, 357). (Ord. #5507, 7/22/19)
SEC. 285.   OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR PARKED VEHICLE.
285.   OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR PARKED VEHICLE.In any proceedings for violation of
the parking provisions of this ordinance, the registration plate displayed on
such motor vehicle involved in said violations shall constitute in evidence a
prima facie presumption that the owner of such motor vehicle was the person who
parked or placed such motor vehicle at the point where such violation occurred.
SEC. 286.   PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
286.   PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.No person shall park a vehicle
upon the roadway for the purpose of displaying such vehicle for sale or lease,
washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle except such repairs as are
necessary due to an emergency. This includes vehicles belonging to a vehicle
sale lot, customers’ vehicles at repair or body shops, customers’ returned
leased vehicles, or any type of home occupation trailers. No RV’s campers, or
boats may be parked on any city street for more than (48) forty-eight hours per
week. (Ord. #5538, 1/27/2020).
SEC. 287.   SUMMONS PLACED ON ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
287.   SUMMONS PLACED ON ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.Whenever any motor vehicle
without driver is found parked or stopped in violation of any of the
restrictions imposed by any ordinance of this City, the officer finding such
vehicle shall attach a written summons as hereinbefore provided to such vehicle
in a conspicuous place and the owner of such vehicle shall be held to appear at
the time and place designated in the summons.
SEC. 288.   PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
288.   PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.In any proceeding charging a
violation of any law or regulation governing the standing or parking of a
vehicle, proof that the particular vehicle described in the information was
parked in violation of any such law or regulation, together with proof that the
defendant named in the information was at the time of such parking the
registered owner of such vehicle, shall constitute in evidence a prima facie
presumption that the registered owner of such vehicle was the person who parked
or placed such vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which such
violation occurred.
SEC. 289.   PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES ON CERTAIN STREETS.
289.   PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES ON CERTAIN STREETS.When signs are
erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park any vehicle at any time
upon any of the streets or portions thereof designated in Section 551 of this
ordinance.
SEC. 290.   NO PARKING BETWEEN SIGNS.
290.   NO PARKING BETWEEN SIGNS.When signs are erected giving notice thereof,
no person shall park a vehicle between signs designating "No Parking Between
Signs" upon any of the streets or portions thereof designated in Section 552 of
this ordinance.
SEC. 291.   NO PARKING HERE TO CORNER.
291.   NO PARKING HERE TO CORNER.When signs are erected giving notice thereof,
no person shall park any vehicle between the corner and a sign designating "No
Parking Here to Corner" upon any of the streets or portions thereof as
designated in Section 553 of this ordinance.
SEC. 292.   NO PARKING HERE TO DRIVE.
292.   NO PARKING HERE TO DRIVE.When signs are erected giving notice thereof,
no person shall park any vehicle between the drive and sign designating "No
Parking Here to Drive" upon any of the streets or portions thereof as
designated in Section 554 of this ordinance.
SEC. 293.   NO PARKING HERE TO TRACKS.
293.   NO PARKING HERE TO TRACKS.When signs are erected giving notice thereof,
no person shall park any vehicle between the tracks and a sign designating "No
Parking Here to Tracks" upon any of the streets or portions thereof as
designated in Section 555 of this ordinance.
SEC. 294.   NO PARKING HERE TO ALLEY.
294.   NO PARKING HERE TO ALLEY.When signs are erected giving notice thereof,
no person shall park any vehicle between alley and a sign designating "No
Parking Here to Alley" upon any of the streets or portions thereof as
designated in Section 556 of this ordinance.
SEC. 295.   NO PARKING MAIL DROP.
295.   NO PARKING MAIL DROP.When signs are erected giving notice of "No Parking
Mail Drop" no person shall park any vehicle upon any of the streets or portions
thereof as designated in Section 557 of this ordinance.
SEC. 296.   NO PARKING HOTEL ENTRANCE.
296.   NO PARKING HOTEL ENTRANCE.When signs are erected giving notice of "No
Parking Hotel Entrance," no person shall park any vehicle upon any of the
streets or portions thereof as designated in Section 558 of this ordinance.
SEC. 297.   TEN-MINUTE PARKING.
297.   TEN-MINUTE PARKING.When signs are erected in each block or portion
thereof affected, giving notice, no person shall park a vehicle for longer than
ten (10) minutes at any time within the district and upon any of the streets or
portions thereof as designated in Section 559 of this ordinance.
SEC. 298.   THIRTY-MINUTE PARKING.
298.   THIRTY-MINUTE PARKING.When signs are erected in each block or portion
thereof affected, giving notice, no person shall park a vehicle for longer than
thirty (30) minutes at any time in any parking space and upon any of the
streets or portions thereof designated in Section 560 of this ordinance. Each
successive 30-minute interval is a new violation.
When signs are erected in each block or portion thereof affected, giving
notice, no person shall park a vehicle for longer than 30 minutes at any time
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon, except Saturday and Sunday, and
except spaces marked "reserved", within the district and upon any of the
streets or portions thereof designated in Section 561 of this ordinance. Each
successive 30-minute interval is a new violation.
When signs are erected in each block, or portion thereof affected, giving
notice, no person shall park a vehicle for longer than 30 minutes at any time
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m., except Saturdays and Sundays, and
except spaces marked "reserved", in any parking space and upon any of the
streets or portions thereof designated in Section 562 of this ordinance. Each
successive 30-minute interval is a new violation.
(Ord. #3591, 10/24/88; '91 Rev.)
SEC. 299.   ONE-HOUR PARKING.
299.   ONE-HOUR PARKING.When signs are erected in each block, or portion
thereof, giving notice, no person shall park a vehicle for longer than one hour
at any time between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. in any parking space
upon any of the streets or portions thereof designated in Section 563 of this
ordinance. Each successive one-hour interval is a new violation. (Ord. #3411,
10/28/85; Ord. #3591, 10/24/88)
SEC. 300.   TWO-HOUR PARKING.
300.   TWO-HOUR PARKING.When signs are erected in each block, or portion
thereof, giving notice, no person shall park a vehicle for longer than two
hours at any time within the hours designated in any parking space upon any of
the streets or portions thereof designated in Sections 564, 565 and 566 of this
ordinance. Each successive two-hour interval is a new violation. (Ord. #3411,
10/28/85; Ord. #3591, 10/24/88)
SEC. 301.   NO PARKING 8:00 A.M.TO 4:00 P.M.
301.   NO PARKING 8:00 A.M.TO 4:00 P.M.When signs are erected in each block, or
portion thereof, giving notice, no person shall park a vehicle between the
hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. on any day except Saturday, Sunday and holidays
within the district and upon any of the streets or portions thereof designated
in Section 568 of this ordinance. ('91 Rev.)
SEC. 302.   NO PARKING 1:00 P.M. TO 4:00 P.M.
302.   NO PARKING 1:00 P.M. TO 4:00 P.M.When signs are erected in each block,
or portion thereof, giving notice, no person shall park a vehicle between the
hours of 1:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. on any day, Sundays excepted, within the
district and upon any of the streets or portions thereof designated in Section
569 of this ordinance. ('91 Rev.)
SEC. 303.   NO PARKING 12:00 NOON TO 4:00 P.M.
303.   NO PARKING 12:00 NOON TO 4:00 P.M.When signs are erected in each block,
or portion thereof, giving notice, no person shall park a vehicle between the
hours of 12:00 noon to 4:00 p.m. on any day, except Saturday and Sunday, within
the district and upon any of the streets or portions thereof designated in
Section 570 of this ordinance. ('91 Rev.)
SEC. 304.   NO PARKING 6:00 A.M. TO 6:00 P.M. EXCEPT SUNDAY.
304.   NO PARKING 6:00 A.M. TO 6:00 P.M. EXCEPT SUNDAY.When signs are erected
in each block, or portion thereof, giving notice, no person shall park a
vehicle between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on any day, except Sunday,
within the district and upon any of the streets or portions thereof designated
in Section 571 of this ordinance. ('91 Rev.)
SEC. 305.   NO PARKING ANY TIME EXCEPT SUNDAY.
305.   NO PARKING ANY TIME EXCEPT SUNDAY.When signs are erected in each block,
or portion thereof, giving notice, no person shall park a vehicle at any time
except Sunday within the district and upon any of the streets or portions
thereof designated in Section 572 of this ordinance. ('91 Rev.)
SEC. 306.   PARKING SIGNS REQUIRED.
306.   PARKING SIGNS REQUIRED.Whenever by this or any other ordinance of this
City any parking time limit is imposed or parking is prohibited on designated
streets or portions of streets, it shall be the duty of the City of Waterloo to
erect or cause to be erected, appropriate signs giving notice thereof and no
such regulations shall be effective unless signs are erected and in place at
the time of any alleged offense. ('91 Rev.)
SEC. 307.   MARKING PARKING AREAS.
307.   MARKING PARKING AREAS.No person except duly authorized employees of the
City shall paint or mark any street, curbing or sidewalk, or part thereof, with
paint or similar substance of the same color or similar color to that used by
the City of Waterloo, Iowa, in designating no parking areas, parking limits or
traffic lanes.
SEC. 308.   AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES.
308.   AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES.Members of the Police Department are
hereby authorized to remove or have removed any abandoned vehicle from a
street, public alley or highway to the nearest garage or other place of safety,
or to a garage designated or maintained by the City, under the circumstances
herein enumerated:
   1.   "Abandoned vehicle" means any of the following:
      a.   A vehicle that has been left unattended on public property for more
than 24 hours and lacks current registration plates or two or more wheels or
other parts which renders the vehicle totally inoperable. ('96 Rev.--changed
from 48 to 24 hours by 76th G.A.--effective 7/1/96)
      b.   A vehicle that has remained illegally parked upon a public street,
municipal parking lot, alley or highway for a continuous period of 24 hours or
more. ('96 Rev.--changed from 72 to 24 hours by 76th G.A.--effective 7/1/96)
      c.   A vehicle that has been unlawfully parked on private property or has
been placed on private property without the consent of the owner or person in
control of the property for more than 24 hours.
      d.   A vehicle that has been legally impounded by order of a police
authority and has not been reclaimed for a period of ten days.
      e.   Any vehicle parked on the highway determined by police authority to
create a hazard to other vehicle traffic.
   2.   When any vehicle has been impounded by the Police Department, the
Department shall give notice to owners, lienholder, and other claimants
pursuant to Iowa Code §321.89.
   3.   If an abandoned vehicle has not been reclaimed as provided for in State
Code, the Department shall have the authority to dispose of abandoned vehicle
pursuant to Iowa Code §321.89.
   4.   The owner or driver of any vehicle impounded for a violation of any of
the provisions of this Ordinance shall be required to pay the cost of towing
and storage.
(Ord. #3660, 8/14/89; '91 Rev.; '95 Rev.; '96 Rev.; ’99 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code
§321.89]
SEC. 309.   HANDICAPPED PARKING.
309.   HANDICAPPED PARKING.Chapter 321L of the Iowa Code, Handicapped Parking,
is hereby adopted by reference, in its entirety. All amendments to Chapter 321L
of the Iowa Code shall automatically modify this Code. We are only setting
forth the most commonly used sections in this Traffic Code, as follows:
"321L.1 Definitions.
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
   1.   'Business district' means that territory defined by city ordinance as
required under section 321L.5.
   2.   'Department' means the state department of transportation.
'Director' means the director of transportation.
   4.   ‘Lifelong disability’ means a disability described under subsection 8
which has been determined to be permanent by a person authorized to provide the
statement of disability required by section 321L.2.
   5.   'Persons with disabilities parking permit' means a permit bearing the
international symbol of accessibility issued by the department which allows the
holder to park in a handicapped parking space, and includes the following:
      a.   A persons with disabilities registration plate issued to or for a
handicapped person under section 321.34, subsection 14.
      b.   A persons with disabilities parking sticker affixed to a
registration plate issued to a disabled veteran under section 321.166,
subsection 6, or to an operator under section 321.34.
      c.   A persons with disabilities removable windshield placard which is a
two-sided placard for hanging from the rearview mirror when the motor vehicle
is parked in a handicapped parking space.
   6.   'Persons with disabilities parking sign' means a sign which bears the
international symbol of accessibility that meets the requirements under section
321L.6.
   7.   'Persons with disabilities parking space' means a parking space,
including the access aisle, designated for use by only motor vehicles
displaying a handicapped parking permit that meets the requirements of sections
321L.5 and 321L.6.
   8.   'Person with a disability' means a person with a disability that limits
or impairs the person's ability to walk. A person shall be considered a person
with a disability for purposes of this chapter under the following
circumstances:
      a.   The person cannot walk two hundred feet without stopping to rest.
      b.   The person cannot walk without the use of, or assistance from, a
brace, cane, crutch, another person, prosthetic device, wheelchair, or other
assistive device.
      c.   The person is restricted by lung disease to such an extent that the
person's forced expiratory volume for one second, when measured by spirometry,
is less than one liter, or the arterial oxygen tension is less than sixty mm/hg
on room air at rest.
      d.   The person uses portable oxygen.
      e.   The person has a cardiac condition to the extent that the person's
functional limitations are classified in severity as class III or class IV
according to standards set by the American heart association.
      f.   The person is severely limited in the person's ability to walk due
to an arthritic, neurological, or orthopedic condition.”
"321L.4 Persons with disabilities parking--display and use of parking permit
and persons with disabilities identification designation.
   1.   A persons with disabilities parking permit shall be displayed in a
motor vehicle as a removable windshield placard or on a vehicle as a plate or
sticker as provided in section 321L.2 when being used by a person with a
disability, either as an operator or passenger. Each removable windshield
placard shall be of uniform design and fabricated of durable material, suitable
for display from within the passenger compartment of a motor vehicle, and
readily transferable from one vehicle to another. The placard shall only be
displayed when the motor vehicle is parked in a persons with disabilities
parking space, except as provided in section 321L.2A.
   2.   The use of a persons with disabilities parking space, located on either
public or private property as provided in section 321L.5 or 321L.6, by an
operator of a vehicle not displaying a persons with disabilities parking
permit; by an operator of a vehicle displaying a persons with disabilities
parking permit but not being used by a person issued a permit or being
transported in accordance with section 321L.2, subsection 1, paragraph "b", or
by a vehicle in violation of the rules adopted by the department under section
321L.8, constitutes improper use of a persons with disabilities parking permit,
which is a misdemeanor for which a scheduled fine shall be imposed upon the
owner, operator, or lessee of the vehicle or the person to whom the persons
with disabilities parking permit is issued. The scheduled fine for each
violation shall be as established in section 805.8, subsection 2, paragraph
‘c.’” [Note: $200.00 fine] “Proof of conviction of two or more violations
involving improper use of a persons with disabilities parking permit is grounds
for revocation by the court or the department of the holder's privilege to
possess or use the persons with disabilities parking permit. (74th G.A., eff.
7/1/92; '96 Rev, 76th G.A., eff. 7/1/96)
   3.   A peace officer as designated in section 801.4, subsection 11, shall
have the authority to and shall enforce the provisions of this section on
public and private property."
"321L.9 Reciprocity.
Persons with disabilities parking permits issued lawfully by other states and
foreign governmental bodies or their political subdivisions shall be valid
persons with disabilities parking permits for nonresidents traveling or
visiting in this state."
(Ord. #3189, 1/18/82; '91 Rev.; ’97 Rev.; ’99 Rev.; ’00 Rev.; ’10 Rev.) [Iowa
Code 321L]
SEC. 310.   PROHIBITED PARKING DURING SNOW REMOVAL.
310.   PROHIBITED PARKING DURING SNOW REMOVAL.   (a)   Whenever the Mayor,
Director of Public Works, or the Director's designee finds on the basis of
falling snow, sleet, freezing rain or the forecast of accumulations of snow or
ice, that weather conditions have created or are likely to create hazardous
road and driving conditions which will impede or are likely to impede movement
of fire, health, police, emergency or other vital vehicular traffic, the Mayor,
Director of Public Works or the Director's designee may declare that Snow
Removal on Priority One streets shall begin and prohibit parking or stopping of
vehicles on designated Snow Removal Routes. While the Snow Removal is in
effect, no person shall park, abandon or leave unattended any vehicle upon any
Priority One Snow Removal Route or portion of such Route, as designated as such
by Resolution of the City Council. Each street designated as a Priority One
Snow Removal Route by the City Council, shall be marked with signs displaying
the words "No Parking During Snow Removal".
   A Snow Removal parking ban shall continue from its proclamation through the
duration of the snow or ice storm and until the proper authority issues notice
that the Snow Removal on Priority One streets is at an end. The public will be
notified via local radio, television and newspaper when Snow Removal begins and
is concluded. The parking prohibition on Snow Removal Routes shall not go into
effect until two hours after Snow Removal operations have been declared in
accordance with this Chapter. Termination of the parking prohibition shall be
effective immediately upon the announcement that the Snow Removal on Priority
One streets is at an end. (Ord. #3600, 11/7/88)
   (b)   When it is declared that Snow Removal operations are to begin, it
shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to impede or block traffic on
designated Priority One Snow Removal Routes.
   (c)   Any police officer of the Waterloo Police Department, the Director of
Public Works or the Director's designee shall be authorized to cause the towing
of vehicles blocking traffic or parking on designated Snow Removal Routes
during Snow Removal operations in violation of this Section. The owner of the
vehicle shall pay the costs of towing and storage occasioned by the removal of
the vehicle as provided herein.
In addition to any police officer of the Waterloo Police Department, the
Director of Public Works, the Superintendent of Streets, and the Street
Department Foremen shall be authorized to issue parking tickets for violations
of Section 310, parking on designated Snow Removal Routes during Snow Removal
operations. (Ord. #3460, 11/3/86; Ord. #3600, 11/7/88)
   (d)   Special Penalty. Anyone violating this parking ban shall be fined
Twenty-five Dollars ($25.00) each offense, in addition to the costs of towing
and storage.
   (e)   In any proceeding for violation of this Ordinance, the registration
plates displayed on a motor vehicle involved in such violation shall constitute
in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of such motor
vehicle was the person who parked or placed such motor vehicle at the point
where such violation occurred.
   (f)   If any section, provision and part of this Ordinance shall be adjudged
invalid, or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall not affect the validity
of the Ordinance as a whole or any section, provision or part thereof not
adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
(Ord. #3171, 2/6/84; Ord. #3451, 9/22/86)
(The following Resolution is printed at this point for informational purposes
only.)
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-746 (passed 10/25/04)
Priority "One" Streets:
    Street            From               To
Airline Highway      Logan Avenue         Leversee Road
Airport Blvd.         Broadway Street      Airport Terminal Road
Alabar Avenue      Littlefield Road      University Avenue
Ansborough Avenue      Conger Street         Orange Road
Baltimore Street      Williston Avenue      Ridgeway Avenue
Bayard Street         Fourth Street         Williston Avenue
Bishop Avenue      Independence Avenue      Osage Road
Black Hawk Road      Fletcher Avenue      Huntington Road
Bopp Street         LaPorte Road         Crossroads Blvd.
Broadway Street      Airport Blvd.         Utica Street
Burton Avenue      Park Road         West Airline Hwy.
Campbell Avenue      Fletcher Avenue      Fourth Street
Cedar Bend Street      Longfellow Avenue      Broadway Street
Cedar Terrace Drive      Texas Street         Foulk Road
Commercial Street      West Eighteenth Street   River Road
Conger Street         Ansborough Avenue      Mullan Avenue
Crossroads Blvd.      Entire Circle
Donald Street         Cedar Bend Street      Sage Road
Downing Avenue      South Hackett Road      Black Hawk Road
Dubuque Road      Nevada Street         Evans Road
Dysart Road         Texas Street         Orange Road
Easton Avenue      Kimball Avenue      LaPorte Road
Eighteenth Street      Cedar River         Washington Street
Eleventh Street      Franklin Street         Ridgeway Avenue
Fairview Avenue      Conger Street         Lafayette Street
Falls Avenue         Duryea Street         University Avenue (W)
Fifth Street         Franklin Street         Williston Street
Flammang Drive      Hammond Avenue      San Marnan Drive
Fletcher Avenue      Westfield Avenue      West Fourth Street
Foulk Road         Cedar Terrace Drive      South City Limits
Fourth Street         Donald Street         Hoff Road
Franklin Street         Utica Street         Nevada Street
Greenhill Road      Katoski Drive         Rainbow Drive
Grimm Street         Hess Road         Crossroads Blvd.
Hackett Road (South)      Greenhill Road      Downing Avenue   
    Street            From               To
Hammond Avenue      South Street         Orange Road
Hawkeye Road      San Marnan Drive      Relocated Highway 20
Hess Road         Grimm Street         Orange Road
Hoff Road         West Fourth Street      Shaulis Road
Huntington Road      Black Hawk Road      West City Limits
Idaho Street         Dubuque Road      East Donald Street
Independence Avenue      Vinton Street         East City Limits
Iowa Street         Franklin Street         Dane Street
Katoski Drive         West City Limits      Greenhill Road
Kimball Avenue      West Third Street      South City Limits
Lafayette Street      Fairview Avenue      East City Limits
LaPorte Road         Washington Street      Hess Road
Littlefield Road      Sager Avenue         Alabar Avenue
Longfellow Avenue      Parker Street         Oakland Avenue
Martin Luther King Drive   Franklin Street         East City Limits
Maynard Avenue      Rainbow Drive      Ansborough Avenue
Mitchell Avenue      Kimball Avenue      Washington Street
Mobile Street         Newell Street         Martin Luther King Dr.
Nevada Street         Lafayette Street      Independence Avenue
Newell Street         Mullan Avenue      North Elk Run Road
Ninth Street         Washington Street      San Marnan Drive
Oakland Avenue      Longfellow Avenue      Conger Street
Orange Road (East)      Ansborough Avenue      LaPorte Road
Osage Road         Dubuque Road      Bishop Avenue
Parker Street         Cedar Bend Street      East Fourth Street
Rainbow Drive      Maynard Avenue      West City Limits
Ridgeway Avenue      San Marnan Drive      West City Limits
River Road         Mullan Avenue      Ansborough Avenue
St. Francis Drive      West Ninth Street      San Marnan Drive
Sager Avenue         South Hackett Road      University Avenue   
San Marnan Drive      West Fourth Street      Texas Street
Second Street (East)      Franklin Street         Mulberry Street
Shaulis Road (West)      West Fourth Street      Sergeant Road
Sixth Street         Franklin Street         Fifth Street
South Street         Ninth Street         Hammond Avenue
Texas Street         San Marnan Drive      Thistledown Drive
Third Street (East)      Franklin Street         Mulberry Street
Third Street (West)      Cedar Street         Sergeant Road
Vinton Street         Independence Avenue      Cedar River
Westfield Avenue      Conger Street         River Road
Williston Avenue      Fourth Street         Washington Street
SEC. 311.   DAILY LOT FEE.
311.   DAILY LOT FEE.The daily parking fee shall be designated by City Council.
(Ord. #3324, 2/6/84; Ord. #3785, 5/20/91; Ord. #4002, 1/18/94)
SEC. 312.   FEES -MONTHLY AND RESERVED RAMP AND LOT PARKING
312.   FEES -MONTHLY AND RESERVED RAMP AND LOT PARKINGParking spaces in either
parking ramps or parking lots may be used for monthly parking upon payment of
the required fee, IN ADVANCE. Upon payment of the required fee a parking
sticker shall be issued, and displayed in a prominent location in the window of
the vehicle. RAMP PARKERS WILL RECEIVE A PASS CARD THAT WILL REQUIRE A DEPOSIT.
The monthly fees for parking spaces are established as follows:
   (a)   The monthly fee for reserved, assigned stall parking shall be as
follows:
      (1)   E. 5th Street
 
Prior        After
July 1, 2003 July 1, 2003
Level A               $40.00 $45.00
Level B               $40.00 $45.00
Level C Stalls 37-46  $40.00 $45.00
Level C Stalls 47-61  $35.00 $40.00
Level D Stalls 62-71  $40.00 $45.00
Level D Stalls 72-87  $35.00 $40.00
Level E Stalls 88-97  $40.00 $45.00
Level E Stalls 98-112 $35.00 $40.00
 
      (2)   W. 5th Street
 
Level A Stalls 1-25  $45.00 $50.00
Level B Stalls 26-31 $45.00 $50.00
Level B Stalls 32-38 $40.00 $45.00
Level C Stalls 39-61 $45.00 $50.00
Level D Stalls 62-69 $45.00 $50.00
Level D Stalls 70-85 $40.00 $45.00
 
      (3)   Civic Center
 
Stalls 1-43 $45.00 $50.00
 
   (b)   The monthly fee for reserved, assigned stall parking shall be as
follows:
 
Prior July 1, 2003 After July 1, 2003
      (1)   E. Park Avenue Ramp
Deck A-1 and B-1        $45.00 $50.00
Deck A-2 and B-2        $40.00 $45.00
Deck C-1 Stalls 126-157 $40.00 $45.00
Deck D-1 Stalls 192-236 $40.00 $45.00
Deck E-1 Stalls 273-321 $45.00 $50.00
Deck E-2 Stalls 322-355 $40.00 $45.00
Deck F-1 Stalls 356-396 $45.00 $50.00
Deck F-2 Stalls 397-433 $40.00 $45.00
 
   (c)   The monthly fee for non-reserved parking shall be as follows:
 
(1) E. 5th Street Ramp $30.00 $35.00
(2) W. 5th Street Ramp $30.00 $35.00
(3) Civic Center Ramp  $30.00 $35.00
   
   (d)   The monthly fee for non-reserved parking shall be as follows:
      (1)   E. Park Avenue Ramp
         Deck E, Deck G, including
         Stalls Nos. 147 through 164,
 
Inclusive, and Deck H   $25.00 $30.00
Deck C-2 Stalls 158-191 $35.00 $40.00
Deck D-2 Stalls 237-272 $35.00 $40.00
Deck G-1 Stalls 434-484 $30.00 $35.00
Deck G-2 Stalls 485-519 $30.00 $35.00
Deck H-1 Stalls 520-572 $30.00 $35.00
Deck H-2 Stalls 593-612 $30.00 $35.00
 
   (e)   The monthly fee for a reserved, assigned stall in city lots is
established as follows:
 
Lot 1                        $40.00
Lot 2, 5, 6, 7, 8, 11 and 16 $30.00
218 Viaduct                  No Charge
 
(Ord. #3591, 10/24/88; Ord. #3757, 12/17/90; Ord. #3934, 4/12/93; Ord. #3996,
12/13/93; Ord. #4620, 6/16/03; Ord. #4662, 12/15/03; Ord. #4758, 3/7/05)
SEC. 313-319. RESERVED.
PARKING METERSMETERS
SEC. 320.   DESIGNATION OF TWELVE-MINUTE, THIRTY-MINUTE, ONE-HOUR, TWO-HOUR,
FOUR-HOUR AND TEN-HOUR PARKING METER AREAS.320.   DESIGNATION OF TWELVE-MINUTE,
THIRTY-MINUTE, ONE-HOUR, TWO-HOUR, FOUR-HOUR AND TEN-HOUR PARKING METER AREAS.
The City of Waterloo is hereby authorized and directed to designate and mark
off metered individual parking spaces on streets and within designated parking
lots as conditions permit and shall install meters providing parking time
limits within the downtown area bound by Walnut Street, Seventh Street, South
Street and Westfield Avenue. The location of the metered individual parking
spaces and the type of meters installed providing parking time limits shall be
designated by Resolution of the City Council. (Ord. #3591, 10/24/88; '91 Rev.)
SEC. 321.   REGULATION OF PARKING IN INDIVIDUAL SPACES.321.   REGULATION OF
PARKING IN INDIVIDUAL SPACES.
Whenever a vehicle shall be parked in an individual parking space where a
parking meter has been installed, the person parking such vehicle shall deposit
in said parking meter, coins of United States money in denominations as
designated on the meter if such meter displays the signal showing that legal
parking is only permitted upon such a deposit.
It is hereby established that the fees and parking time allowed for such fees
for parking within individual parking spaces where the same have been
designated, and a parking meter installed, shall be by Resolution of the City
Council.
Notice to the public shall be given by appropriate signs setting forth the
length of time for which parking is permitted and the conditions thereof. These
may be upon the face of the parking meter, on the parking meter stand or in the
immediate vicinity. Any vehicle which remains in an individual parking space
after the prescribed time for parking is hereby determined to be illegally
parked.
The provisions of this ordinance shall not apply to vehicles parked or standing
in the areas hereinbefore designated between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 9:00
a.m. of each week day except Monday, when the provisions of this ordinance
shall apply until 9:00 p.m. The provisions of this ordinance shall not apply on
Sundays and Legal Holidays.
SEC. 322.   FEES FOR MONTHLY RAMP AND LOT PARKING.322.   FEES FOR MONTHLY RAMP
AND LOT PARKING.
(Ord. #3324, 2/6/84; repealed by Ord. #3591, 10/24/88)
SEC. 323.   EVIDENCE.323.   EVIDENCE.
All parking is prohibited in any parking space where a meter is installed which
displays a signal showing that parking is not permitted unless a deposit of the
proper coin or coins of United States money is made as herein provided. Any
vehicle parked in contravention of this provision shall be deemed to be
illegally parking under the provisions of this ordinance. The fact that a
vehicle is in an individual parking space when the time signal on the parking
meter or the same shows no parking permitted, unless a deposit of a proper coin
is made as herein provided shall be deemed prima facie evidence of the unlawful
parking of such motor vehicle by its operator.
SEC. 324.   OVERTIME PARKING.324.   OVERTIME PARKING.
It shall be unlawful and a violation of the provisions of this Article for any
person to cause, allow, permit, or suffer any vehicle registered in the name
of, or operated by, such person to be parked overtime or beyond the period of
legal parking time established for any parking meter zone as herein described.
SEC. 325.   SUCCESSIVE INTERVAL NEW VIOLATION.325.   SUCCESSIVE INTERVAL NEW
VIOLATION.
It shall be unlawful and a violation of the provisions of this Article for any
person to permit a vehicle to remain in any parking place adjacent to any
parking meter while said meter is displaying a signal indicating that the
vehicle occupying such parking space has already been parked beyond the period
of time prescribed for such parking space.
Even though money has been put into the meter, parking for a period of time
over the time allowed on the meter will be a violation. Each successive
interval is a new violation. (Ord. #3591, 10/24/88)
SEC. 326.   RESERVED SPACE.326.   RESERVED SPACE.
It shall be unlawful and a violation of the provisions of this Article for any
person to cause, allow, permit, or suffer any vehicle registered in the name of
or operated by such person to be parked in an individual parking space reserved
for another as provided in Section 311. (Ord. #3591, 10/24/88)
SEC. 327.   DEFACE PARKING METER.327.   DEFACE PARKING METER.
It shall be unlawful and a violation of the provisions of this Article for any
person to deface, injure, tamper with, open or willfully break, destroy, or
impair the usefulness of any parking meter installed under the provisions of
this ordinance.
SEC. 328.   SLUGS NOT TO BE USED.328.   SLUGS NOT TO BE USED.
It shall be unlawful and a violation of the provisions of this article to
deposit or cause to be deposited in any parking meter, any slug, device, or
metallic substance, or any other substitute for a twenty-five-cent coin, ten-
cent coin, five-cent coin, or one-cent coin of the United States.
SEC. 329.   INFORMATION ON TICKETS.329.   INFORMATION ON TICKETS.
It shall be the duty of all personnel authorized to enforce parking regulations
to report:
   (a)   The number of each parking meter which indicates that the vehicle
occupying the parking space adjacent to such parking meter is or has been
parking in violation of the Traffic Code;
   (b)   The state license number of such vehicle;
   (c)   The time of day which the violation occurred;
   (d)   Any other facts, a knowledge of which is necessary to a thorough
understanding of the circumstances attending such violation; the authorized
personnel shall also attach to such vehicle a notice to the owner or operator
thereof that such vehicle has been parking in violation of this Traffic Code
and instructing such owner or operator on payment or appeal procedures.
(Ord. #3324, 2/6/84; Ord. #3591, 10/24/88; Ord. #3744, 9/24/90)
SEC. 330.   PENALTY.330.   PENALTY.
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of either Section 324, 325,
326, 327 or 328 and any person who aids, abets, or assists therein, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
accordingly.
SEC. 331.   BOND FOR MONEY COLLECTORS.331.   BOND FOR MONEY COLLECTORS.
The City Treasurer or a city employee designated by the Treasurer shall collect
all coins deposited in the parking meters. Such employee, except for temporary
help, shall furnish a bond in the amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00)
with surety approved by the City Council. All funds collected from parking
meters shall be credited to the Parking Meter Fund. ('91 Rev.)
SEC. 332.   FREE SPACES ALLOWED.332.   FREE SPACES ALLOWED.
Any authority heretofore or hereafter exercised by the City of Waterloo, Iowa,
under any ordinance, rule or regulation restricting or prohibiting parking,
independent of time limits, shall in no manner be affected by these sections
pertaining to parking meters or any of the provisions thereof. The purpose of
this article is to assist in the regulation of overtime parking by the use of
parking meters, and it shall be so construed.
Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the City of Waterloo,
Iowa, from providing for free parking space for loading and unloading, for
taxicab stands, and for other matters of similar nature.
SEC. 333.   APPLICATION OF REVENUE.333.   APPLICATION OF REVENUE.
(Repealed by Ord. #3591, 10/24/88)
SEC. 334.   ONE VEHICLE PER SPACE.334.   ONE VEHICLE PER SPACE.
When more than one vehicle is parking in a single parking space in violation of
the time period on the meter, each vehicle so parked shall be presumed to be in
violation. (Ord. #3591, 10/24/88)
SEC. 335.   PARKING FINES.335.   PARKING FINES.
   (a)   It shall be a violation of this article for any person to permit a
vehicle to park in any parking space and adjacent to a parking meter without
first inserting coins into the meter as designated on the meter. Legal parking
is only permitted upon such a deposit. This type of violation shall be
designated as a meter violation. A fine for each violation of this subsection
shall be:
         $10.00 if paid within 30 days
         $15.00 if paid after 30 days.
   (b)   It shall be a violation of this article for any person to permit a
vehicle to park in any parking space adjacent to a parking meter beyond the
period of legal parking time established for any parking meter zone. This type
of violation shall be designated as overtime parking. A fine for each violation
of this subsection shall be:
         $10.00 if paid within 30 days
         $15.00 if paid after 30 days.
   (c)   It shall be a violation of this article for any person to permit a
vehicle to park in any parking space which is in violation of any of the
following subsections and shall be classified as an improper, restricted or
prohibited parking violation. A fine for each violation of this subsection
shall be:
         $15.00 if paid within 30 days
         $20.00 if paid after 30 days.
Improper, restricted or prohibited parking violation shall be as follows:
SEC. 273. STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING.
SEC. 274. METHOD OF PARKING.
SEC. 275. THEATERS, HOTELS AND AUDITORIUMS.
SEC. 276. BUS AND TAXI ZONES.
SEC. 277. LOADING ZONES.
SEC. 281. LOADING AND UNLOADING FROM ALLEY.
SEC. 282. PARKING IN ALLEY.
SEC. 283. BACKING INTO PARKING SPACE.
SEC. 286. PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
SEC. 287. SUMMONS PLACED ON ILLEGALLY PARKING VEHICLE.
SEC. 289. PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES ON CERTAIN STREETS.
SEC. 290. NO PARKING BETWEEN SIGNS.
SEC. 291. NO PARKING HERE TO CORNER.
SEC. 292. NO PARKING HERE TO DRIVE
SEC. 293. NO PARKING HERE TO TRACKS.
SEC. 294. NO PARKING HERE TO ALLEY.
SEC. 295. NO PARKING MAIL DROP.
SEC. 296. NO PARKING HOTEL ENTRANCE.
SEC. 297. TEN-MINUTE PARKING.
SEC. 298. THIRTY-MINUTE PARKING.
SEC. 299. ONE-HOUR PARKING.
SEC. 300. TWO-HOUR PARKING.
SEC. 301. NO PARKING 8:00 A.M. TO 4:00 P.M.
SEC. 302. NO PARKING 1:00 P.M. TO 4:00 P.M.
SEC. 303. NO PARKING 12:00 NOON TO 4:00 P.M.
SEC. 304. NO PARKING 6:00 A.M. TO 6:00 P.M. EXCEPT SUNDAY.
SEC. 305. NO PARKING ANY TIME EXCEPT SUNDAY.
Meter bags may be rented from the City at a cost of $5.00 per day per bag.
(Ord. #3744, 9/24/90; Ord. #4160, 4/1/96; Ord. #4627, 7/21/03; Ord. #5047, 5/9/
11)
SEC. 336-340. RESERVED.
PARKING RAMPSRAMPS
SEC. 341.   REGULATION OF PARKING OF CASH PATRONS.341.   REGULATION OF PARKING
OF CASH PATRONS.
The City of Waterloo is hereby authorized and directed to establish at the
entrance and exit to the parking ramp, when applicable, appropriate mechanical
devices to regulate the entrance and exit of cash patrons using the parking
facility. The mechanical devices regulating entrance in the parking facility
shall provide for the entrance of one vehicle at a time, provided the operator
of the vehicle entering accepts a parking ticket noting time of entrance. At
the cash patron's exit from the parking facility there shall be maintained a
cashier facility where cash patrons shall pay for the use of the parking
facility at the rates hereinafter set forth in this article. ('91 Rev.)
SEC. 342.   REGULATION OF PARKING OF MONTHLY PARKERS.342.   REGULATION OF
PARKING OF MONTHLY PARKERS.
The City of Waterloo is hereby authorized and directed to establish at the
entrance and exit to the parking ramp appropriate mechanical devices to
regulate the entrance and exit of monthly parkers using the parking facility.
The mechanical devices regulating entrance in the parking facility shall
provide for the entrance of one vehicle at a time, provided the monthly parker
provides appropriate identification as a monthly parker. ('91 Rev.)
SEC. 343.   PARKING RATES FOR CASH PATRONS.343.   PARKING RATES FOR CASH
PATRONS.
It is hereby established that the fees for cash patrons for all parking ramps
shall be set by Resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. #3324, 2/6/84; Ord. #3402, 8/19/85; Ord. #3416, 12/2/85; Ord. #5000, 7/
19/10)
SEC. 344.   MONTHLY PARKING.344.   MONTHLY PARKING.
Monthly parkers shall be authorized to use parking facilities upon payment of
the required fee as designated by City Council. (Ord. #4002, 1/18/94)
SEC. 345.   OBTAIN PARKING STUB.345.   OBTAIN PARKING STUB.
It shall be unlawful and a violation of the provisions of this article for any
person to cause, allow, permit or suffer any vehicle registered in the name of,
or operated by, such person entering the parking facility without first
obtaining a parking ticket.
SEC. 346.   EXIT WITHOUT PAYING.346.   EXIT WITHOUT PAYING.
It shall be unlawful and a violation of the provisions of this article for any
persons to cause, allow, permit or suffer any vehicle registered in the name
of, or operated by, such persons to exit the parking facility without first
paying the required fee for use of the parking facility.
SEC. 347.   DEFACE MECHANICAL DEVICES.347.   DEFACE MECHANICAL DEVICES.
It shall be unlawful and a violation of the provisions of this article to
deface, injure, tamper with, open or wilfully break, destroy or impair the
usefulness of any mechanical devices installed under the provisions of this
article.
SEC. 348.   ENTER RAMP OTHER THAN ENTRANCE.348.   ENTER RAMP OTHER THAN
ENTRANCE.
It shall be unlawful and a violation of the provisions of this article for any
persons to cause, allow, permit or suffer any vehicle registered in the name
of, or operated by, such persons to attempt to enter a parking ramp in any
other manner than provided, for entrance of motor vehicles.
SEC. 349.   PAY MONTHLY FEE.349.   PAY MONTHLY FEE.
It shall be unlawful and a violation of this article under the provisions of
this article for any persons to cause, allow, permit or suffer any vehicle
registered in the name of, or operated by, such persons to enter through the
monthly parker's entrance unless the operator or owner of the vehicle has paid
the appropriate monthly parking fee.
SEC. 350.   PENALTY.350.   PENALTY.
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this article and any
person who aids, abets, or assists therein shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
upon conviction thereof shall be punished accordingly.
SEC. 351.   APPLICATION OF REVENUE.
(Repealed by Ord. #3591, 10/24/88)
SEC. 352.   CITY PARKING LOTS.352.   CITY PARKING LOTS.
   (a)   That the City Council is hereby authorized to establish parking areas
known as City Hall Lot adjacent to City Hall and City Hall Annex Lot adjacent
to City Hall Annex. (Ord. #3360, 8/20/84)
   (b)   The above parking areas shall be used strictly by city personnel.
   (c)   Each vehicle parking in one of the above lots shall have a sticker
issued by the City of Waterloo designating an assigned parking space.
   (d)   Any stickered vehicle parking in a space not designated for that
vehicle shall be considered in violation and will be subject to a six dollar
($6.00) fine for restricted parking. (Ord. #4002, 1/18/94)
   (e)   Any non-stickered vehicle parking in one of the lots under this
ordinance shall be subject to a five dollar ($5.00) restricted parking fine,
and the city shall have authority to tow such non-stickered vehicle at the
owner's expense.
('91 Rev.)
SEC. 353.   APPLICATION OF REVENUE.353.   APPLICATION OF REVENUE.
This section repealed by Ord. #5000 passed July 19, 2010.
SEC. 354-357. RESERVED.
AIRPORT
SEC. 358.   ALLOW INGRESS AND EGRESS.358.   ALLOW INGRESS AND EGRESS.
When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park any vehicle
at any time upon the streets providing ingress and egress to the Waterloo
Municipal Airport Facilities from Airline Highway, except as provided in
Section 359.
SEC. 359.   PARKING REGULATIONS AT AIRPORT.359.   TEN MINUTE PARKING.
When signs are erected giving notice thereof, the following parking regulations
shall apply on the street in front of the main airport terminal at the Waterloo
Municipal Airport:
   (a)   No parking along the south side of the road. This lane shall remain a
through lane.
   (b)   The north side of the road, which is the closest to the main airport
terminal, shall be a drop-off zone only. Under no circumstances may a vehicle
be left unattended in the drop-off zone. Unattended means that the driver of
the vehicle shall, at all times, be in or around the vehicle, may not exit the
vehicle other than to drop off persons and/or baggage at the drop-off zone, and
thereafter shall immediately move the vehicle from the drop-off zone.
   (c)   Any vehicle left unattended in the drop-off zone shall be subject to a
fine and the vehicle(s) may be immediately towed at the owner’s sole expense.
   (d)   Only the following persons shall be authorized to enforce this
section: police officers of the Waterloo Police Department, Waterloo Fire
Rescue personnel assigned to the Waterloo Municipal Airport, security personnel
employed by the Waterloo Airport Board, the Airport Director, and the Assistant
Airport Director.
   (e)   A violation of this section shall be a municipal infraction and
punishable by a fine of not less than nor more than One Hundred Dollars
($100.00).
(Ord. #4373, 7/19/99; Ord. #4440, 10/2/00; Ord. #4522, 10/22/01)
SEC. 360.   PERSONS AUTHORIZED TO ENFORCE PARKING REGULATIONS AT
AIRPORT.360.   PERSONS AUTHORIZED TO ISSUE TICKETS AT AIRPORT.
With the exception of Section 359, the following persons are authorized to
enforce the parking regulations at the Airport. The Airport Director, Assistant
Airport Director, Waterloo Fire Rescue personnel assigned to the Airport,
skycaps, janitorial service personnel, and maintenance personnel employed by
the Airport Commission, and police officers of the Waterloo Police Department
are hereby authorized to enforce parking regulations as set out in Section 358.
They shall also be authorized to issue handicapped parking tickets, but only at
the Waterloo Municipal Airport. (Ord. #4573, 8/8/88; Ord. #4248, 8/25/97; Ord.
#4373, 7/19/99; Ord. #4522, 10/22/01)
SEC. 361.   PENALTIES FOR PARKING VIOLATIONS AT THE AIRPORT.359.   TEN MINUTE
PARKING.
   The fine for parking violations at the Waterloo Municipal Airport shall be
Five Dollars ($5.00). If the fine is not paid within thirty (30) days of the
date of violation, the fine shall increase to Ten Dollars ($10.00). (Ord.
#4373, 7/19/99)
SEC. 362-395. RESERVED.
MISCELLANEOUS RULESRULES
SEC. 396.   CONTROL OF VEHICLE--SIGNALS.396.   CONTROL OF VEHICLE--SIGNALS.
The driver of a motor vehicle traveling through defiles or on approaching the
crest of a hill or grade shall have such motor vehicle under control and on the
right-hand side of the roadway and, upon approaching any curve where the view
is obstructed within a distance of two hundred feet along the highway, shall
give audible warning with the horn of such motor vehicle.
SEC. 397.   ACTS PROHIBITED ON FULLY CONTROLLED-ACCESS FACILITIES.397.   ACTS
PROHIBITED ON FULLY CONTROLLED-ACCESS FACILITIES.
It is unlawful for a person, except a person operating highway maintenance
equipment or an authorized emergency vehicle, to do ay of the following on a
fully controlled-access facility:
   1.   Drive a vehicle over, upon, or across a curb, central dividing section,
or other separation or dividing line.
   2.   Make a left turn or a semicircular or U-turn at a maintenance cross-
over where an official sign prohibits the turn.
   3.   Drive a vehicle except in the proper lane provided for that purpose and
in the proper direction and to the right of the central dividing curb,
separation, section, or line.
   4.   Drive a vehicle into the facility from a local service road.
   5.   Stop, park, or leave standing a vehicle, whether attended or
unattended, upon the paved portion.
   6.   Stop, park, or leave standing a vehicle, whether attended or
unattended, upon the shoulders, or the right of way except at designated rest
areas or in case of an emergency or other dire necessity.
For the purpose of this section, fully controlled-access facility is a highway
which gives preference to through traffic by providing access connections at
interchanges with selected public roads only and by prohibiting crossings at
grade or direct access at driveway connections. The scheduled fine is $100.00.
('91 Rev.; '95 Rev.; ’00 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.366]
SEC. 398.   FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.398.   FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   1.   For purposes of this section, "funeral procession" means a procession
of motor vehicles accompanying the body of a deceased person during daylight
hours which is being escorted by a vehicle continually displaying its emergency
signal lamps flashing simultaneously and using lighted head lamps and
identifying flags, or an escort vehicle displaying a flashing or revolving red
and amber light visible to pedestrians in all directions, and keeping all other
motor vehicles with lighted head lamps in close formation.
   2.   Upon the immediate approach of a funeral procession, the driver of
every other vehicle, except an authorized emergency vehicle, shall yield the
right-of-way. An operator of a motor vehicle which is part of a funeral
procession shall not be charged with violating traffic rules and regulations
relating to traffic signals and devices while participating in the procession
unless the operation is reckless.
   3.   The funeral establishment in charge of the funeral procession is liable
only in connection with the procession for any negligent, reckless, or
intentional act by the funeral establishment or any employee or agent of the
funeral establishment that results in any death, personal injury or property
damage suffered during a funeral procession.
('91 Rev.; '95 Rev.; ’07 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.324A]
SEC. 399.   COASTING PROHIBITED.399.   COASTING PROHIBITED.
The driver of a motor vehicle shall not drive with the source of motive power
disengaged from the driving wheels except when disengagement is necessary to
stop or to shift gears. ('91 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.365]
SEC. 400.   FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS.400.   FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS.
The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall not follow
any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than five
hundred feet or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where fire
apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm. [Ref. Iowa Code §321.367]
SEC. 401.   CROSSING FIRE HOSE.401.   CROSSING FIRE HOSE.
No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire department when
laid down on any street or private driveway, to be used at any fire or alarm of
fire, without the consent of the fire department official in command. [Ref.
Iowa Code §321.368]
SEC. 402.   PARADES.402.   PARADES.
Circus parades shall be permitted only with the approval of the Mayor and Chief
of Police who shall prescribe the streets which may be used. Circus vehicles,
except in parades, shall not be drawn over streets paved with soft materials
whenever a hard top street can be used.
SEC. 403.   PARADES AND PROCESSIONS.403.   PARADES AND PROCESSIONS.
Other parades and processions may be held with permission of the Mayor under
such rules as the Chief of Police may prescribe but information regarding the
nature of the same shall be given to such officers in advance.
SEC. 404.   DRIVING THROUGH PARADES.404.   DRIVING THROUGH PARADES.
Vehicles shall not be driven through a parade or procession without permission
of a police officer.
SEC. 405.   REPAIRING VEHICLES ON STREETS.405.   REPAIRING VEHICLES ON STREETS.
No person shall repair or cause to be repaired any vehicle in the streets or
alleys, except in cases of emergency.
SEC. 406.   PUTTING GLASS, ETC. ON HIGHWAY OR STREETS.406.   PUTTING GLASS,
ETC. ON HIGHWAY OR STREETS.
A person shall not throw or deposit upon a highway any glass bottle, glass,
nails, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter, offal, or any other
debris. A person shall not throw or deposit upon a highway a substance likely
to injure any person, animal, or vehicle upon the highway. A person who
violates this section commits a misdemeanor punishable as a scheduled fine of
Thirty-five Dollars ($35.00). (Ord. #4247, 8/18/97; ’99 Rev.; Ord. #4552, 5/20/
02) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.369]
SEC. 407.   REMOVING INJURIOUS MATERIAL.407.   REMOVING INJURIOUS MATERIAL.
Any person who drops, or permits to be dropped or thrown, upon any highway or
street any destructive or injurious material and other material as defined in
Section 406 shall immediately remove the same or cause it to be removed. A
person who violates this section commits a misdemeanor punishable as a
scheduled fine of Thirty-five Dollars ($35.00). (Ord. #4247, 8/18/97; ’99 Rev.;
Ord. #4552, 5/20/02) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.370]
SEC. 408.   CLEARING UP WRECKS.408.   CLEARING UP WRECKS.
Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a street shall remove any
glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the street from such vehicle.
[Ref. Iowa Code §321.371]
SEC. 409.   UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLE.409.   UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLE.
No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand
unattended without first stopping the engine, or when standing upon any
perceptible grade without effectively setting the brake thereon and turning the
front wheels to the curb or side of the street or highway. [Ref. Iowa Code
§321.362]
SEC. 410.   VEHICLES NOT TO BE DRIVEN ON SIDEWALKS.410.   VEHICLES NOT TO BE
DRIVEN ON SIDEWALKS.
The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area except at a
permanent or temporary driveway.
SEC. 411.   ANIMALS NOT TO BE DRIVEN ON PARKING.411.   ANIMALS NOT TO BE DRIVEN
ON PARKING.
No person shall drive or ride an animal on that part of the street known as the
parking, including the parking on the boulevards in the City of Waterloo, Iowa.
SEC. 412.   CLOSED STREET.412.   CLOSED STREET.
It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle over any street which has been
closed to traffic by the proper authorities.
SEC. 413.   RIDING ON RUNNING BOARD PROHIBITED.413.   RIDING ON RUNNING BOARD
PROHIBITED.
No person shall drive a motor vehicle on the streets of this City unless all
passengers of said vehicle are inside said vehicle in the place intended for
their accommodation. No person shall ride on the running board of a motor
vehicle or in any motor vehicle except in those places intended for the
accommodation of passengers.
SEC. 414.   OBSTRUCTION TO DRIVER'S VIEW.414.   OBSTRUCTION TO DRIVER'S VIEW.
No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there are in the
front seat such number of persons, exceeding three, as to obstruct the view of
the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere with the
driver's control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle. [Ref. Iowa Code
§321.363]
SEC. 415.   EVADING ARREST.415.   EVADING ARREST.
It shall be unlawful for any person driving a motor vehicle or any person
riding therein to turn off any or all lights of the vehicle for the purpose of
evading arrest, or to take any other action with that vehicle which would serve
to hinder or delay the driver's apprehension or arrest. ('91 Rev.)
SEC. 416.   LOUD SPEAKERS.416.   LOUD SPEAKERS.
No person shall park or operate any vehicle upon the streets which, by loud
speakers or mechanical devices, is used to advertise events or the sale of
goods, wares or merchandise without first obtaining written permission from the
Mayor of the City of Waterloo, Iowa.
SEC. 417.   MOTOR VEHICLE DISTURBING OF THE PEACE OR QUIET.417.   MOTOR VEHICLE
DISTURBING OF THE PEACE OR QUIET.
It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb or aid in disturbing the peace
or quiet by operating or causing to be operated any radio, tape player, compact
disc player, loudspeaker, or any other electronic device, or by the blowing of
horns or the squealing of tires, either in a motor vehicle or separate
therefrom so as to produce an audible sound measured at least twenty-five (25)
feet from the source. Measurement of the audible sound shall be by auditory
senses based upon direct line of sight.
No distinction shall be made between stopped, standing, parked, or moving motor
vehicles.
Upon conviction or a plea of guilt, the violator shall be punished as a simple
misdemeanor and as follows: For the first offense, no less than One Hundred
Dollars ($100.00); for the second offense, no less than Two Hundred Fifty
Dollars ($250.00); and for the third and any subsequent offenses, Five Hundred
Dollars ($500.00).
(Ord. #4100, 6/5/95; Ord. #4510, 9/4/01)
SEC. 418.   SKATEBOARDING.418.   SKATEBOARDING. 
   (a)   Definitions:
      (1)   "Skateboard" shall mean a narrow board approximately two feet long
mounted on wheels.
      (2)   "Skateboarding" shall mean the riding or operating of a skateboard.
      (3)   "Downtown area" shall mean the area bounded by East First Street,
West First Street, Washington Street, West Sixth Street, East Sixth Street and
Franklin Street.
      (4)   "Plaza area" shall mean the areas with benches and/or tables
designed primarily for passive recreation; i.e., picnicking and sitting.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in skateboarding:
      (1)   Upon any public street or highway unless otherwise authorized;
      (2)   Within any city-owned parking garage or parking lot, except where
designated at city parks;
      (3)   Upon any sidewalk within the downtown area during the hours of 7:00
a.m. to 6:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday, and the hours of 10:00 a.m. to 5:00
p.m. on Saturday;
      (4)   Upon the ramps, sidewalks and benches at any time at the Waterloo
City Hall, the Waterloo Public Library, the Waterloo Recreation and Arts
Center, the Five Sullivan Brothers Convention Center, the MET Transit Authority
Central Transit Facility, the Holiday Inn, Russell Lamson Building (209 West
Fifth Street), Park Tower (500 Sycamore Street) and Cedar River Tower Housing
(106 East Third Street);
      (5)   Upon the flood control levees and all cement appurtenances thereof
at Bontrager Park and Liberty Park;
      (6)   Upon the tennis courts, handball courts and sit-down or plaza areas
within the City parks;
      (7)   Upon the sidewalks leading to any city-owned public swimming pool,
upon the decks inside the pool area and upon the swimming pool bottom when
empty.
   (c)   No person shall engage in skateboarding in a reckless manner, which
shall be defined as skateboarding in such a manner as to indicate either a
willful or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property, on any
public sidewalk. No person shall skateboard on a sidewalk without exercising
due care for the safety of others using the sidewalk.
   (d)   Any person who violates the terms of this section shall be punished
pursuant to Section 4 of the Traffic Code. The violations shall be scheduled,
as follows:
         1st offense -$10.00;
         2nd offense -$15.00;
         3rd offense -$25.00; and
         4th or more offense -not less than $25.00.
   Any person adjudged guilty of this section may be required to pay
restitution for any damage caused by skateboarding.
(Ord. #3663, 9/18/89)
SEC. 419.   FIRE LANE/EMERGENCY VEHICLE LANE. .419.   FIRE LANE/EMERGENCY
VEHICLE LANE.
   (a)   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply to the
interpretation and enforcement of this section.
      (1)   Commercial vehicle means a motor driven car or truck, which is
designated by lettering on the vehicle’s body indicating a commercial purpose,
or which has a commercial license plate attached that is duly registered to the
vehicle.
      (2)   Fire Lane/Emergency Vehicle Lane shall mean an opening not less
than 20 feet of unobstructed width measured from the farthest building
projection or walkway/curb, whichever is the greatest distance from the
building wall, and shall have no vertical obstructions. The length of a fire
lane shall be properly posted as set forth below.
   (b)   Violations. No person shall park a vehicle in any place designated by
Waterloo Fire Rescue as a Fire Lane/Emergency Vehicle Lane and posted as such,
whether such Fire Lane/Emergency Vehicle Lane be upon publicly owned property
or right-of-way, or upon privately owned property. Any person violating this
section shall be guilty of a municipal infraction, and upon conviction thereof
be subject to a penalty of Fifty Dollars ($50.00), in addition to all the
remedies provided in Iowa Code §364.22 and any amendments thereto, including
the removal of the vehicle. Enforcement of this section shall be by the
Waterloo Police Department or Waterloo Fire Rescue.
   (c)   Signs. A Fire Lane/Emergency Vehicle Lane shall be posted with metal
signs reading at a minimum, “FIRE LANE, NO PARKING.” The sign may also include
the words, “VIOLATORS SUBJECT TO TOWING AND $50 PENALTY.” The signs shall be
located at least every 50 linear feet of the fire lane.
   (d)   Presumption. When an area is posted as a Fire Lane/Emergency
Vehicle Lane as provided in subsection (c) above, a presumption shall arise
that said area was designated as a fire lane by or with the authority of
Waterloo Fire Rescue. In any proceeding for violation of this ordinance, the
registration displayed on a motor vehicle involved in the violation shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of
the motor vehicle was the person who parked or placed the vehicle at the point
where the violation occurred.
   (e)   Maintenance of Fire Lane/Emergency Vehicle Lane. Fire Lane/Emergency
Vehicle Lanes shall be constructed and maintained at the owners’ expense, which
shall include the purchase of properly marked signs.
   (f)   Fire Lane/Emergency Vehicle Lane shall   be free and clear of all
obstructions. Fire Lane/ Emergency Vehicle Lanes shall at all times be free and
clear of all obstructions, with the following exceptions:
      (1)   Normal movement of vehicular traffic.
      (2)   Actively loading and unloading of commercial vehicles. Commercial
vehicles shall be limited to a period of not more than a 30-minute obstruction
of the fire lane.
(Ord. #4444, 11/6/00)
SEC. 420-426. RESERVED.
SAFETY STANDARDSSTANDARDS
SEC. 427.   VEHICLES IN UNSAFE CONDITION.427.   VEHICLES IN UNSAFE CONDITION.
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or move or for the owner to cause
or knowingly permit to be driven or moved on any street or highway any vehicle
or combination of vehicles which is in such unsafe condition as to endanger any
person, or which does not contain those parts or is not at all times equipped
with such lamps and other equipment in proper condition and adjustment as
required in this ordinance or which is equipped with one or more unsafe tires,
or which is equipped in any manner in violation thereof. The scheduled fine is
One Hundred Dollars ($100.00). (Ord. #4552, 5/20/02; Ord. #5007, 9/13/10) [Ref.
Iowa Code §321.381]
SEC. 428.   MINIMUM SPEED OF VEHICLE.428.   MINIMUM SPEED OF VEHICLE.
No motor vehicle or combination of vehicles, which cannot proceed up a three
per cent grade, on dry concrete pavement at a minimum speed of twenty miles per
hour shall be operated on the streets of the City of Waterloo. [Ref. Iowa Code
§321.382]
SEC. 429.   SELLING UNSAFE VEHICLES.429.   SELLING UNSAFE VEHICLES.
No person shall have for sale or offer for sale any motor vehicle, trailer or
semitrailer which is in such unsafe condition as to endanger any person or
which does not contain those parts or is not at all times equipped with such
lamps and brakes and other equipment in proper condition and adjustment as
required in this ordinance, or which is equipped in any manner in violation of
this ordinance.
SEC. 430.   MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY RULES.429.   SELLING UNSAFE VEHICLES.
   Iowa Code §321.449, Motor carrier safety rules, is hereby adopted by
reference in its entirety. All amendments to Iowa Code §321.449 shall
automatically modify this Traffic Code.
“321.449 Motor carrier safety rules.
   1.   a.   A person shall not operate a commercial vehicle on the highways of
this state except in compliance with rules adopted by the department under
chapter 17A. The rules shall be consistent with the federal motor carrier
safety regulations promulgated under United States Code, Title 49, and found in
49 C.F.R. § pts. 385, 390-399 and adopted under chapter 17A.
      b.   The department shall also adopt rules concerning hours of service
for drivers of vehicles operated for hire and designed to transport seven or
more persons, including the driver. The rules shall not apply to vehicles
offered to the public for hire that are used principally in intracity operation
and that are regulated by local authorities pursuant to section 321.236.
   2.   Rules adopted under this section concerning driver qualifications,
hours of service, and recordkeeping requirements do not apply to the operators
of public utility trucks, trucks hauling gravel, construction trucks and
equipment, trucks moving implements of husbandry, and special trucks, other
than a truck tractor, operating intrastate. Except as otherwise provided in
this section, trucks for hire on construction projects are not exempt from this
section.
   3.   Rules adopted under this section concerning driver age qualifications
do not apply to drivers for private and for-hire motor carriers which operate
solely intrastate except when the vehicle being driven is transporting a
hazardous material in a quantity which requires placarding. The minimum age for
the exempted intrastate operations is eighteen years of age.
   4.   a.   Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, rules adopted
under this section for drivers of commercial vehicles shall not apply to a
driver of a commercial vehicle who is engaged exclusively in intrastate
commerce, when the commercial vehicle's gross vehicle weight rating is 26,000
pounds or less, unless the vehicle is used to transport hazardous materials
requiring a placard or if the vehicle is designed to transport more than
fifteen passengers, including the driver. For the purpose of complying with the
hours of service recordkeeping requirements under 49 C.F.R. § 395.1(e)(1)(v)(A-
D), a driver's report of daily beginning and ending on-duty time submitted to
the motor carrier at the end of each work week shall be considered acceptable
motor carrier time records.
      b.   In addition, rules adopted under this section shall not apply to a
driver operating intrastate for a farm operation as defined in section 352.2,
or for an agricultural interest when the commercial vehicle is operated between
the farm as defined in section 352.2 and another farm, between the farm and a
market for farm products, or between the farm and an agribusiness location.
      c.   A driver or a driver-salesperson for a private carrier, who is not
for hire and who is engaged exclusively in intrastate commerce, may drive
twelve hours, be on duty sixteen hours in a twenty-four hour period and be on
duty seventy hours in seven consecutive days or eighty hours in eight
consecutive days. A driver- salesperson means as defined in 49 C.F.R. § 395.2,
as adopted by the department by rule.
      d.   For-hire drivers who are engaged exclusively in intrastate commerce
and who operate trucks and truck-tractors exclusively for the movement of
construction materials and equipment to and from construction projects may also
drive twelve hours, be on duty sixteen hours in a twenty-four-hour period, and
be on duty seventy hours in seven consecutive days or eighty hours in eight
consecutive days.
   5.   a.   Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, rules adopted
under this section concerning physical and medical qualifications for drivers
of commercial vehicles engaged in intrastate commerce shall not be construed as
disqualifying any individual who was employed as a driver of commercial
vehicles engaged in intrastate commerce whose physical or medical condition
existed prior to July 29, 1996.
      b.   Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, rules adopted
under this section concerning physical and medical qualifications for a driver
shall not apply to a farmer or a farmer's hired help when operating a vehicle
owned by the farmer while it is being used in connection with the intrastate
transportation of fertilizers and chemicals used in the farmer's crop
production.
      c.   Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, rules adopted
under this section concerning physical and medical qualifications for a driver
shall not apply to a farmer or a farmer's hired help when operating a vehicle
owned by the farmer while it is being used in connection with the intrastate
transportation of agricultural commodities or feed.
   6.   Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, rules adopted under
this section shall not impose any requirements which impose any restrictions
upon a person operating an implement of husbandry or pickup to transport
fertilizers and pesticides in that person's agricultural operations.
   7.   Rules adopted under this section shall not apply to vehicles engaged in
intrastate commerce and used in combination provided the gross vehicle weight
rating of the towing unit is ten thousand pounds or less and the gross
combination weight rating is twenty-six thousand pounds or less.
   8.   In the course of enforcing the motor carrier safety rules adopted by
the department under chapter 17A, the department’s peace officers are
authorized, at reasonable times and places and with reasonable notice, to enter
a motor carrier’s place of business for the purpose of performing a motor
carrier safety audit or compliance review. Nothing in this subsection by itself
permits the seizure of the property of a motror carrier. Any audit or review
shall be conducted in compliance with the federal motor carrier safety
regularions in 49 C.F.R. pts. 105-108, 382, 383, 385, and 390-399. A peace
officer of the department is authorized to inspect and copy motor carrier
records required by 49 C.F.R. pts. 105-185, 382, 383, 385, and 390-399.”
(Ord. #4359, 5/3/99; ’00 Rev.; ’06 Rev.; ’10 Rev.) [Iowa Code 321.449]
SEC. 431-434. RESERVED
LIGHTING EQUIPMENTEQUIPMENT
SEC. 435.   LAMP OR FLAG ON PROJECTING LOAD.435.   LAMP OR FLAG ON PROJECTING
LOAD.
Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or more beyond
the bed or body of such vehicle, there shall be displayed at the extreme rear
end of the load, at the times specified in Iowa Code §321.384, a red light or
lantern plainly visible from a distance of at least five hundred feet to the
sides and rear. The red light or lantern required under this section shall be
in addition to the red rear light required upon every vehicle. At any other
time there shall be displayed at the extreme rear end of such load a red flag
or cloth not less than 16 inches square. ('91 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.394]
SEC. 436.   WHEN LIGHTED LAMPS REQUIRED.436.   WHEN LIGHTED LAMPS REQUIRED.
Every motor vehicle upon a highway within the state, at any time from sunset to
sunrise, and at such other times when conditions such as fog, snow, sleet, or
rain provide insufficient lighting to render clearly discernible persons and
vehicles on the highway at a distance of five hundred feet ahead, shall display
lighted head lamps as provided in Section 455, subject to exceptions with
respect to parked vehicles as hereinafter stated. [Ref. Iowa Code §321.384]
SEC. 437.   ATMOSPHERIC CONDITIONS.437.   ATMOSPHERIC CONDITIONS.
Whenever requirement is hereinafter declared as to the distance from which
certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible or within which such
lamps or devices shall be visible, said provisions shall apply during the times
stated in Section 436 upon a straight level unlighted highway under normal
atmospheric conditions unless a different time or condition is expressly
stated. [Ref. Iowa Code §321.384]
SEC. 438.   NUMBER OF DRIVING LAMPS REQUIRED OR PERMITTED.438.   NUMBER OF
DRIVING LAMPS REQUIRED OR PERMITTED.
At all times specified in Sections 436 and 437 at least two lighted lamps,
except where one only is permitted, shall be displayed, one on each side at the
front of every motor vehicle except when such vehicle is parked subject to the
regulations governing lights on parked vehicles. [Ref. Iowa Code §321.419]
SEC. 439.   NUMBER OF LAMPS LIGHTED.439.   NUMBER OF LAMPS LIGHTED.
Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with head lamps as herein required is also
equipped with any auxiliary lamps or a spot lamp or any other lamp on the front
thereof projecting a beam of an intensity greater than three hundred
candlepower, not more than a total of four of any such lamps on the front of a
vehicle shall be lighted at any one time when upon a highway. [Ref. Iowa Code
§321.420]
SEC. 440.   NUMBER OF HEAD LAMPS.440.   NUMBER OF HEAD LAMPS.
Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle or motorized bicycle, shall be
equipped with at least two head lamps, with at least one on each side of the
front of the motor vehicle, which head lamps shall comply with the requirements
set forth herein. ('91 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.385]
SEC. 441.   REPAIR OF LAMPS WITHIN 72 HOURS OF CITATION.441.   REPAIR OF LAMPS
WITHIN 72 HOURS OF CITATION.
   1.   a.   A citation issued for failure to have headlamps as required under
Section 440 or 442 shall first provide for a seventy-two (72) hour period
within which the person charged with the violation shall replace or repair the
lamp(s) or light(s).
      b.   A citation issued for failure to have rear lamps as required under
Sec. 443 or a rear registration plate light qas required under Section 446
shall first provide for a seventy-two hour period within which the person
charged with the violation shall replace or repair the lamps or light.
   2.   If the person complies with the directive to replace or repair the
headlamp, rear lamps, or rear registration plate light within the allotted time
period, the citation shall be expunged. If the person fails to comply within
the allotted time period, the citation shall be processed in the same manner as
other citations.
   3.   A citation issued under this section shall include a written notice of
replacement or repair which shall indicate the date of replacement or repair
and the manner in which the replacement or repair occurred and which shall be
returned to the issuing authority within the seventy-two (72) hour time period.
(Ord. #3878, 7/13/92; Ord. #5006, 9/13/10) [Ref. §321.385A]
SEC. 442.   HEAD LAMPS ON MOTORCYCLE.442.   HEAD LAMPS ON MOTORCYCLE.
Every motorcycle and motorized bicycle shall be equipped with at least one and
not more than two head lamps which shall comply with the requirements and
limitations set forth herein. ('91 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.386]
SEC. 443.   REAR LAMPS AND REFLECTORS.443.   REAR LAMPS AND REFLECTORS.
Every motor vehicle and every vehicle which is being drawn at the end of a
train of vehicles shall be equipped with a lighted rear lamp or lamps,
exhibiting a red light plainly visible from a distance of five hundred feet to
the rear. All lamps and lighting equipment originally manufactured on a motor
vehicle shall be kept in working condition or shall be replaced with equivalent
equipment. (Ord. #3878, 7/13/92) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.387]
SEC. 444.   LAMPS ON BICYCLES.444.   LAMPS ON BICYCLES.
Every bicycle shall be equipped with a lamp on the front exhibiting a white
light, at the times specified in Section 436 visible from a distance of at
least three hundred feet to the front and with a lamp on the rear exhibiting a
red light visible from a distance of three hundred feet to the rear; except
that a red reflector may be used in lieu of a rear light. A peace officer
riding a police bicycle is not required to use either front or rear lamps if
duty so requires. (Ord. #4247, 8/18/97; ’99 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.397]
SEC. 445.   ANIMAL DRAWN VEHICLES.445.   ANIMAL DRAWN VEHICLES.
All other vehicles, including animal drawn vehicles, shall at all times, when
lights are required of motor vehicles, be equipped with at least one lighted
lamp or lantern exhibiting a white light visible from a distance of five
hundred feet to the front of such vehicle and with a lamp or lantern exhibiting
a red light visible from a distance of five hundred feet to the rear.
SEC. 446.   ILLUMINATING REAR LICENSE PLATE.446.   ILLUMINATING REAR LICENSE
PLATE.
The rear lamp called for in Section 442 or a separate lamp shall be so
constructed and placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear
registration plate and render it clearly legible from a distance of fifty feet
to the rear. When the rear license plate is illuminated by an electric lamp
other than the required lamp, said two lamps shall be turned on or off only by
the same control switch at all times whenever head lamps are lighted. [Ref.
Iowa Code §321.388]
SEC. 447.   REFLECTORS ADDITIONAL.447.   REFLECTORS ADDITIONAL.
Every new motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer hereafter sold and every
commercial vehicle hereafter operated on a highway shall also carry at the
rear, either as a part of the rear lamp or separately, a red reflector meeting
the requirements of this ordinance. [Ref. Iowa Code §321.389]
SEC. 448.   REFLECTOR REQUIREMENTS.448.   REFLECTOR REQUIREMENTS.
Whenever a red reflector is required or permitted to be used in substitution of
lamps upon a vehicle under any one of the provisions of this ordinance, such
reflector shall be mounted upon the vehicle at a height not to exceed forty-two
inches nor less than twenty inches above the ground upon which the vehicle
stands, and every such reflector shall be so designed and maintained as to be
visible at night from all distances within three hundred feet to fifty feet
from such vehicle, except that on a commercial vehicle the reflector shall be
visible from all distances within five hundred feet to fifty feet from such
vehicle when directly in front of a motor vehicle displaying lawfully lighted
head lamps as provided in Section 454. [Ref. Iowa Code §321.390]
SEC. 449.   BACK-UP LAMPS.449.   BACK-UP LAMPS.
Any motor vehicle may be equipped with a back-up lamp either separately or in
combination with any other lamp, except that no such back-up lamp shall be
continuously lighted when the motor vehicle is in a forward motion. [Ref. Iowa
Code §321.408]
SEC. 450.   LAMPS ON PARKED VEHICLES.450.   LAMPS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
Whenever a vehicle is parked or stopped upon a roadway or shoulder adjacent to
the roadway, outside of a business district whether attended or unattended
during the times mentioned in Sections 436 and 437, such vehicle shall be
equipped with one or more lamps which shall exhibit a white or amber light on
the roadway side visible from a distance of five hundred feet to the front of
such vehicle and a red light visible from a distance of five hundred feet to
the rear, except that no lights need be displayed upon any such vehicle when
stopped or parked in accordance with local parking regulations upon a highway
or street where there is sufficient light to reveal any person or object within
a distance of five hundred feet upon such highway or street. Any lighted head
lamps upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or dimmed. ('91 Rev.; ’99 Rev.)
[Ref. Iowa Code §321.395]
SEC. 451.   EXCEPTION.451.   EXCEPTION.
Section 450 shall not apply when an accident extinguishes said light and
renders a vehicle incapable of use, and when the person in control of the
vehicle erects, at the earliest opportunity after the accident, such proper
light at or near the vehicle as will give warning of the presence of said
vehicle. [Ref. Iowa Code §321.396]
SEC. 452.   SPOT LAMPS.452.   SPOT LAMPS.
Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not to exceed one spot lamp and every
lighted spot lamp shall be so aimed and used upon approaching another vehicle
that no part of the high-intensity portion of the beam will be directed to the
left of the prolongation of the extreme left side of the vehicle nor more than
one hundred feet ahead of the vehicle. [Ref. Iowa Code §321.402]
SEC. 453.   AUXILIARY DRIVING LAMPS.453.   AUXILIARY DRIVING LAMPS.
Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not to exceed three auxiliary driving
lamps mounted on the front at a height not less than twelve inches nor more
than forty-two inches above the level surface upon which the vehicle stands,
and every such auxiliary driving lamp or lamps shall meet the requirements and
limitations set forth in this ordinance. [Ref. Iowa Code §321.403]
SEC. 454.   SIGNAL LAMPS AND SIGNAL DEVICES.454.   SIGNAL LAMPS AND SIGNAL
DEVICES.
Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a signal lamp or signal device which
is so constructed and located on the vehicle as to give a signal of intention
to stop, which shall be red or yellow in color, which signal shall be plainly
visible and understandable in normal sunlight and at night from a distance of
one hundred feet to the rear but shall not project a glaring or dazzling light.
[Ref. Iowa Code §321.404]
SEC. 455.   MANDATORY LIGHTING EQUIPMENT.455.   MANDATORY LIGHTING EQUIPMENT.
Except as hereinafter provided, the headlamps or the auxiliary driving lamp or
the auxiliary passing lamp or combination thereof on motor vehicles other than
motorcycles or motorized bicycles shall be so arranged that the driver may
select at will between distributions of light projected to different elevations
and the lamps may, in addition, be so arranged that such selection can be made
automatically, subject to the following limitations:
   1.   There shall be an uppermost distribution of light, or composite beam,
so aimed and of such intensity as to reveal persons and vehicles at a distance
of at least three hundred fifty feet ahead for all conditions.
   2.   There shall be a lowermost distribution of light, or composite beam, so
aimed and of sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a distance
of at least one hundred feet ahead. On a straight level road under any
condition of loading none of the high-intensity portion of the beam shall be
directed to strike the eyes of an approaching driver.
   3.   Every new motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle or motorized bicycle
which has multiple-beam road-lighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam
indicator, which shall be lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light
from the headlamps is in use, and shall not otherwise be lighted. Said
indicator shall be so designed and located that when lighted it will be readily
visible without glare to the driver of the vehicle.
('91 Rev.; '95 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.409]
SEC. 456.   REQUIRED USAGE OF LIGHTING DEVICES.456.   REQUIRED USAGE OF
LIGHTING DEVICES.
Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder adjacent
thereto during the times specified in Sections 436 and 437, the driver shall
use a distribution of light, or composite beam, directed high enough and of
sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a safe distance in
advance of the vehicle, subject to the following requirements and limitations:
   1.   Whenever a driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle within
one thousand feet, such driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite
beam, so aimed that the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the
oncoming driver. The lowermost distribution of light, or composite beam,
specified in subsection 2 of Section 454 shall be deemed to avoid glare at all
times, regardless of road contour and loading.
   2.   Whenever the driver of a vehicle follows another vehicle within four
hundred feet to the rear, except when engaged in the act of overtaking and
passing, such driver shall use a distribution of light permissible under this
ordinance other than the uppermost distribution of light specified in
subsection 1 of Section 454.
   3.   The provisions of subsections 1 and 2 do not apply to motorcycles or
motorized bicycles being operated between sunrise and sunset.
('91 Rev.; Ord. #3878, 7/13/92) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.415]
SEC. 457.   SINGLE-BEAM ROAD-LIGHTING EQUIPMENT.457.   SINGLE-BEAM ROAD-
LIGHTING EQUIPMENT.
Head lamps arranged to provide a single distribution of light not supplemental
by auxiliary driving lamps shall be permitted on motor vehicles manufactured
and sold prior to July 1, 1938, in lieu of multiple-beam road-lighting
equipment herein specified if the single distribution of light complies with
the following requirements and limitations:
The head lamps shall be so aimed that when the vehicle is not loaded none of
the high-intensity portion of the light shall at a distance of twenty-five feet
ahead project higher than a level of five inches below the level of the center
of the lamp from which it comes, and in no case higher than forty-two inches
above the level on which the vehicle stands at a distance of seventy-five feet
ahead.
The intensity shall be sufficient to reveal persons and vehicles at a distance
of at least two hundred feet.
[Ref. Iowa Code §321.417]
SEC. 458.   ALTERNATE ROAD-LIGHTING EQUIPMENT.458.   ALTERNATE ROAD-LIGHTING
EQUIPMENT.
Any motor vehicle may be operated under the conditions specified in Section 436
of this ordinance when equipped with two lighted lamps upon the front thereof
capable of revealing persons and objects seventy-five feet ahead in lieu of
lamps required in Iowa Code §§321.409, 321.415, or 321.417, provided, however,
that at no time shall it be operated at a speed in excess of twenty miles per
hour. ('91 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.418]
SEC. 459.   RED LIGHTS ON FRONT OF VEHICLE.459.   RED LIGHTS ON FRONT OF
VEHICLE.
   1.   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or equipment upon any highway
with any lamp or device thereon displaying or reflecting a red light visible
from directly in front thereof. No person shall display any color of light,
other than red on the rear of any vehicle except that stop lights and
directional signals may be red, yellow, or amber.
   2.   This section shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles, or
school buses and vehicles as provided in Iowa Code 321.423(6).
(Ord. #5006, 9/13/10) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.422]
SEC. 460.   FLASHING LIGHTS.460.   FLASHING LIGHTS.
Iowa Code §321.423, Flashing lights, is hereby adopted by reference, in its
entirety. All amendments to Iowa Code §321.423 shall automatically modify this
Code. Only the parts of §321.423 which are most commonly used in the City of
Waterloo are set forth herein:
   2.   Prohibited lights. A flashing light on or in a motor vehicle is
prohibited except as follows:
      a.   On an authorized emergency vehicle.
      b.   On a vehicle as a means of indicating a right or left turn, a
mechanical failure, or an emergency stop or intent to stop.
      c.   On a motor vehicle used by a rural mail carrier when stopping or
stopped on or near a highway in the process of delivering mail, if such a light
is any shade of color between white and amber and if it is mounted as a dome
light on the roof of the vehicle.
      d.   On a vehicle being operated under an excess size permit issued under
chapter 321E.
      e.   A flashing blue light on a vehicle upon which a blue light is
permitted pursuant to subsection 3 of this section.
      f.   A flashing white light is permitted on a vehicle pursuant to
subsection 7.
      g.   Flashing red and amber warning lights on a school bus as described
in section 321.372, and a white flashing strobe light mounted on a school bus
as permitted under section 321.373, subsection 7.
      h.   A flashing amber light is permitted on a towing or recovery vehicle,
a utility maintenance vehicle, a municipal maintenance vehicle, a highway
maintenance vehicle, or a vehicle operated in accordance with subsection 6 or
section 321.398 or 321.453.
      i.   Modulating headlamps in conformance with 49 C.F.R. Sec.
571.108S7.9.4. are permitted on a motorcycle.
      j.   On a vehicle being operated as an escort vehicle for a funeral
procession as provided in section 321.234A.”
   3.   Blue light.
      a.   A blue light shall not be used on any vehicle except for the
following:
            A vehicle owned or exclusively operated by a fire department.
            A vehicle authorized by the chief of the fire department if the
vehicle is owned by a member of the fire department, the request for
authorization is made by the member on forms provided by the department, and
necessity for authorization is demonstrated in the request.
            An authorized emergency vehicle, other than a vehicle described in
paragraph “a”, subparagraph (1) or (2), if the blue light is positioned on the
passenger side of the vehicle and is used in conjunction with a red light
positioned on the driver side of the vehicle.
      b.   A person shall not use only a blue light on a vehicle unless the
vehicle meets the requirements of paragraph “a”, subparagraph (1) or (2)."
   6.   Amber flashing light. A farm tractor, farm tractor with towed
equipment, self-propelled implement of husbandry, road construction or
maintenance vehicle, road grader, or other vehicle principally designed for use
off the highway which, when operated on a primary or secondary road, is
operated at a speed of thirty-five miles an hour or less, shall be equipped
with and display an amber flashing light visible from the rear at any time from
sunset to sunrise. If the amber flashing light is obstructed by the towed
equipment, the towed equipment shall also be equipped with and display an amber
flashing light as required under this subsection. All vehicles specified in
this subsection which are manufactured for sale or sold in this state shall be
equipped with an amber flashing light in accordance with the standards of the
American society of agricultural engineers."
   7.   Flashing white light.
      a.   Except as provided in section 321.373, subsection 7, and subsection
2, paragraphs "c" and “i” of this section, a flashing white light shall only be
used on a vehicle when used on a vehicle in the following circumstances:
      (1)   On a vehicle owned or exclusively operated by an ambulance, rescue,
or first response service....
      (3)   On an authorized emergency vehicle."
('91 Rev.; '95 Rev.; '96 Rev.; ’97 Rev.; ’99 Rev.; ’06 Rev.; ’10 Rev.) [Iowa
Code §321.423]
SEC. 461.   COLOR AND MOUNTING.461.   COLOR AND MOUNTING.
A lighting device or reflector, when mounted on or near the front of a motor
vehicle, except a school bus, shall not display any other color than white,
yellow, or amber.
No lighting device or reflector, when mounted on or near the rear of any motor
vehicle, shall display any other color than red, except that the stop light may
be red, yellow, or amber.
Clearance lamps shall be mounted on the permanent structure of the vehicle in
such manner as to indicate the extreme width of the vehicle or its load.
The provision of this section shall not prohibit the use of a lighting device
or reflector displaying an amber light when such lighting device or reflector
is mounted on a motor vehicle owned by the state, or any political subdivision
of the state, or any municipality therein, while such equipment is being used
for snow removal, sanding, maintenance, or repair of the public streets or
highways.
(Ord. #3968, 8/23/93)
SEC. 462-469. RESERVED.
BRAKES
SEC. 470.   BRAKE REQUIREMENTS.470.   BRAKE REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, or motorized bicycle,
when operated upon a highway shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control
the movement of and to stop and hold such vehicle, including two separate means
of applying the brakes, each of which means shall be effective to apply the
brakes to at least two wheels. If these two separate means of applying the
brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that failure of
any one part of the operating mechanism shall not leave the motor vehicle
without brakes on at least two wheels.
   2.   Every motorcycle and motorized bicycle, when operated upon a highway
shall be equipped with at least one brake, which may be operated by hand or
foot.
   3.   Every trailer, semitrailer, or travel trailer of a gross weight of
three thousand pounds or more, shall be equipped with brakes adequate to
control the movement of and to stop and hold such vehicle, when operated on the
highways of this state. Every trailer, semitrailer, or travel trailer with a
gross weight of three thousand pounds or more shall be equipped with a
separate, auxiliary means of applying the brakes on the trailer, semitrailer,
or travel trailer from the cab of the towing vehicle, or with self-actuating
brakes, and shall also be equipped with a weight equalizing hitch with a sway
control. Trailers or semitrailers with a truck or truck tractor need only
comply with the brake requirements.
   4.   Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance, every new motor
vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer hereafter sold in this state and operated upon
the highways shall be equipped with service brakes upon all wheels of every
such vehicle with the following exceptions:
      (a)   Any motorcycle or motorized bicycle.
      (b)   Any trailer or semitrailer of less than three thousand pounds gross
weight need not be equipped with brakes.
      (c)   Trucks and truck tractors having three or more axles and
manufactured before July 25, 1980, need not have brakes on the front wheels,
except that such vehicles equipped with two or more front axles shall be
equipped with brakes on at least one of such axles; provided that the service
brakes of such vehicle comply with the performance requirements of Section 471.
      (d)   Only such brakes on the vehicle or vehicles being towed in a
driveaway-towaway operation need be operative as may be necessary to insure
compliance by the combination of vehicles with the performance requirements of
Section 471. The term "driveaway-towaway" operation as used in this subsection
means any operation in which any motor vehicle or motor vehicles, new or used,
constitute the commodity being transported, when one set or more of wheels of
any such motor vehicle or motor vehicles are on the roadway during the course
of transportation, whether or not any such motor vehicle furnishes the motive
power.
('91 Rev.; Ord. #4247, 8/18/97; ’99 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.430]
SEC. 471.   PERFORMANCE ABILITY471.   PERFORMANCE ABILITY
   1.   The service brakes upon any motor vehicle or combination of motor
vehicles, when upon dry asphalt or concrete pavement surface free from loose
material where the grade does not exceed one per cent, when traveling twenty
miles an hour shall be adequate:
      (a)   To stop such vehicle or vehicles having a gross weight of less than
five thousand pounds within a distance of thirty feet.
      (b)   To stop such vehicle or vehicles having a gross weight in excess of
five thousand pounds within a distance of forty-five feet.
   2.   Under the above conditions the hand brake shall be adequate to hold
such vehicle or vehicles stationary on any grade upon which operated.
   3.   Under the above conditions the service brakes upon a motor vehicle
equipped with two-wheel brakes only, and when permitted hereunder, shall be
adequate to stop the vehicle within a distance of forty-five feet and the hand
brake adequate to stop the vehicle within a distance of fifty-five feet and the
hand brake adequate to stop the vehicle within a distance of fifty-five feet.
   4.   All braking distances specified in this section shall apply to all
vehicles mentioned, whether such vehicles are not loaded or are loaded to the
maximum capacity permitted by law.
   5.   All brakes shall be maintained in good working order and shall be so
adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with respect to the wheels on
opposite sides of the vehicle.
('95 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.431]
SEC. 472-476. RESERVED.
MISCELLANEOUS EQUIPMENTEQUIPMENT
SEC. 477.   BICYCLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT.477.   BICYCLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT.
Every bicycle shall be equipped with a bell, horn or similar device to sound a
warning to other users of the streets or highways. A bicycle shall not be
equipped with and a person shall not use upon a bicycle any siren or whistle.
This section shall not apply to bicycles ridden by peace officers in the line
of duty. ('91 Rev.; Ord. #4247, 8/18/97; ’99 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.434]
SEC. 478.   EXPLOSIVES.478.   EXPLOSIVES.
No person shall, at any time, operate a motor truck or truck tractor
transporting explosives as a cargo or part of a cargo upon a street unless it
carries flares or electric lanterns as required by laws of Iowa, but such
flares or electric lanterns must be capable of producing a red light and shall
be displayed upon the street when and as required by the laws of the State of
Iowa.
SEC. 479.   VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.479.   VEHICLES TRANSPORTING
EXPLOSIVES.
Any person operating any vehicle transporting any explosives as a cargo or part
of a cargo upon a street shall at all times comply with the provisions of this
Section.
Said vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and the rear with the
word, "Explosives," in letters not less than eight inches high, or there shall
be displayed on the rear of such vehicle a red flag not less than twenty-four
inches square with the word, "Danger" in white letters six inches high.
Every said vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two fire extinguishers,
filled and ready for immediate use and placed at a convenient point on the
vehicle so used.
SEC. 480.   MUFFLERS, PREVENTION OF NOISE.480.   MUFFLERS, PREVENTION OF NOISE.
Every motor vehicle operated on the streets of this City shall at all times be
equipped with a muffler in good working order and in constant operation to
prevent excessive or unusual noises and annoying smoke, and no person shall use
a muffler cut-out, bypass or similar device upon motor vehicles so operated on
the streets of this City. [Ref. Iowa Code §321.436]
SEC. 481.   HORNS AND WARNING DEVICES.481.   HORNS AND WARNING DEVICES.
Every motor vehicle when operated upon a street shall be equipped with a horn
in good working order and capable of emitting sound audible under normal
conditions from a distance of not less than two hundred feet, but no horn or
other warning device shall emit an unreasonably loud or harsh sound or a
whistle. The driver of a motor vehicle shall, when reasonably necessary to
insure safe operation, give audible warning with the horn but shall not
otherwise use such horn when upon a street. ('91 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code
§321.432]
SEC. 482.   LOUD SIGNALING AT NIGHT.482.   LOUD SIGNALING AT NIGHT.
Loud signaling devices shall not be used during the period of from one hour
after sunset to one hour before sunrise, unless absolutely necessary to avoid
accidents.
SEC. 483.   SIRENS AND BELLS PROHIBITED.483.   SIRENS AND BELLS PROHIBITED.
A vehicle shall not be equipped with and a person shall not use upon a vehicle
any siren, whistle, or bell, except as otherwise permitted in this section. It
is permissible but not required that any commercial vehicle be equipped with a
theft alarm signal device which is so arranged that it cannot be used by the
driver as an ordinary warning signal. Any authorized emergency vehicle may be
equipped with a siren, whistle, or bell, capable of emitting sound audible
under normal conditions from a distance of not less than five hundred feet, but
the siren, whistle, or bell shall not be used except when the vehicle is
operated in response to an emergency call or in the immediate pursuit of an
actual or suspected violator of the law, and the driver of the vehicle shall
sound the siren, whistle, or bell when necessary to warn pedestrians and other
drivers of the approach of the vehicle. (’99 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.433]
SEC. 484.   MIRRORS.484.   MIRRORS.
Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a mirror so located as to reflect to
the driver a view of the street for the distance of at least two hundred feet
to the rear of such vehicle. Any motor vehicle so loaded, or towing another
vehicle in such manner as to obstruct the view in a rear view mirror located in
the driver's compartment shall be equipped with a side mirror so located that
the view to the rear will not be obstructed however when such vehicle is not
loaded or towing another vehicle the side mirrors shall be retracted or
removed. All van or van type motor vehicles shall be equipped with outside
mirrors of unit magnification, each with not less than nineteen point five
square inches of reflective surface, installed with stable supports on both
sides of the vehicle, located so as to provide the driver a view to the rear
along both sides of the vehicle, and adjustable in both the horizontal and
vertical directions to view the rearward scene.
Nothwithstanding this code or Iowa Code Chapter 321E, a combination of vehicles
coupled together which is used exclusively for the transportation of passenger
vehicles, light deliver trucks, panel delivery trucks, pickups, boats, and
recreational chassis, may permanently attach a convex-type mirror on either or
both of the vertical supports, forward of the steering axle of the power unit,
provided that the mirror shall not extend beyond the limit of any other
rearview mirror on the vehicle. ('91 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.437]
SEC. 485.   WINDSHIELDS AND WINDOWS.485.   WINDSHIELDS AND WINDOWS.
   1.   A person shall not drive a motor vehicle equipped with a windshield,
sidewings, or side or rear windows which do not permit clear vision.
   2.   A person shall not operate on the highway a motor vehicle equipped with
a front windshield, a side window to the immediate right or left of the driver
or a side-wing forward of and to the left or right of the driver which is
excessively dark or reflective so that it is difficult for a person outside the
motor vehicle to see into the motor vehicle through the windshield, window, or
sidewing. Rules adopted by the Iowa Department of Transportation establishing a
minimum measurable standard of transparency shall apply to violations of this
subsection.
   3.   Every motor vehicle except a motorcycle, or a vehicle included in the
provisions of Iowa Code Section 321.383 or Section 321.115 shall be equipped
with a windshield in accordance with Iowa Code Section 321.444.
(Ord. #3815, 8/12/91) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.438]
SEC. 486.   WINDSHIELD WIPERS.486.   WINDSHIELD WIPERS.
The windshield of every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device for
cleaning rain, snow, or other moisture from the windshield, which device shall
be constructed as to be controlled or operated by the driver of the vehicle.
[Ref. Iowa Code §321.439]
SEC. 487.   RESTRICTIONS AS TO TIRE EQUIPMENT.487.   RESTRICTIONS AS TO TIRE
EQUIPMENT.
   (a)   Every solid rubber tire on a vehicle shall have rubber on its entire
traction surface at least one inch thick above the edge of the flange of the
entire periphery. Any pneumatic tire on a vehicle shall be considered unsafe if
it has:
      1.   Any part of the ply or cord exposed;
      2.   Any bump, bulge or separation;
      3.   A tread design depth of less than one-sixteenth (1/16th) of an inch
measured in any two or more adjacent tread grooves, exclusive of tire bars or,
for those tires with tread wear indicators, worn to the level of the tread wear
indicators in any two tread grooves;
      4.   A marking "not for highway use," "for racing purposes only," "unsafe
for highway use;"
      5.   Tread or sidewall cracks, cuts or snags deep enough to expose the
body cord;
      6.   Such other conditions as may be reasonably demonstrated to render it
unsafe;
      7.   Been regrooved or recut below the original tread design depth,
excepting special tires which have extra under tread rubber and are identified
as such, or if a pneumatic tire was originally designed without grooves or
tread.
   (b)   A vehicle, except an implement of husbandry, equipped with either
solid rubber or pneumatic tires shall not be operated where the weight per inch
of tire width is greater than five hundred seventy-five pounds per inch of tire
width based on the tire width rating, except on a steering axle, in which case
six hundred pounds per inch of tire width is permitted based on the tire width
rating.
('91 Rev.; Ord. #4247 8/18/97; ’99 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.440]
SEC. 488.   METAL TIRES PROHIBITED.488.   METAL TIRES PROHIBITED.
No person shall operate or move on any street any motor vehicle, trailer, or
semi-trailer having any metal tire in contact with the roadway. [Ref. Iowa Code
§321.441]
SEC. 489.   PROJECTIONS ON WHEELS.489.   PROJECTIONS ON WHEELS.
No tire on a vehicle moved on a highway shall have on its periphery any block,
stud, flange, cleat, or spike or any other protuberances of any material other
than rubber which projects beyond the tread of the traction surface of the tire
except that it shall be permissible to use:
   1.   Farm machinery with tires having protuberances which will not injure
the highway.
   2.   Tire chains of reasonable proportions upon any vehicle when required
for safety because of snow, ice, or other conditions tending to cause a vehicle
to skid.
   3.   Pneumatic tires with inserted ice grips or tire studs projecting not
more than one-sixteenth inch beyond the tread of the traction surface of the
tire upon any vehicle from November l of each year to April 1 of the following
year, except that a school bus and fire department emergency apparatus may use
such tires at any time.
[Ref. Iowa Code §321.442]
SEC. 490.   EXCEPTIONS--SLOW VEHICLES IDENTIFIED.490.   EXCEPTIONS--SLOW
VEHICLES IDENTIFIED.
   1.   The provisions of this ordinance with respect to equipment on vehicles
shall not apply to implements of husbandry, bulk spreaders and other fertilizer
and chemical equipment defined as special mobile equipment, road machinery,
road rollers, or farm tractors except as herein made applicable.
   2.   When operated on a highway in this state at a speed of twenty-five
miles per hour or less, every farm tractor, or tractor with towed equipment,
self-propelled implement of husbandry, road construction or maintenance
vehicle, road grader, horse-drawn vehicle, or any other vehicle principally
designed for use off the highway and any such tractor, implement, vehicle or
grader when manufactured for sale or sold at retail after the 31st of December,
1971, shall be identified with a reflective device of a type approved by the
director; however, this provision shall not apply to such vehicles when
traveling in any escorted parade. The reflective device shall be visible from
the rear and mounted in a manner approved by the director. All vehicles
specified in this section shall be equipped with such reflective device after
the 31st of December, 1971. The director, when approving such device, shall be
guided as far as practicable by the standards of the American Society of
Agricultural Engineers. No vehicle other than those specified in this section
shall display a reflective device approved for the use herein described. On
vehicles specified herein operating at speeds above twenty-five miles per hour,
the reflective device shall be removed or hidden from view.
Any person who violates any provisions of this section shall be fined not more
than five dollars.
SEC. 491.   SAFETY BELTS AND SAFETY HARNESSES--USE REQUIRED.491.   SAFETY BELTS
AND SAFETY HARNESSES--USE REQUIRED.
   1.   Except for motorcycles or motorized bicycles, 1966 model year or newer
motor vehicles subject to registration in Iowa shall be equipped with safety
belts and safety harnesses which conform with federal motor vehicle safety.
   2.   a.   The driver and front seat occupants of a type of motor vehicle
that is subject to registration in Iowa, except a motorcycle or a motorized
bicycle, shall each wear a properly adjusted and fastened safety belt and
safety harness any time the vehicle is in forward motion on a street or highway
in this city except that a child under eighteen years of age shall be secured
as required under Section 492.
      b.   This subsection does not apply to:
      (1)   The driver or front seat occupants of a motor vehicle that is not
required to be equipped with safety belts or safety harnesses.
      (2)   The driver and front seat occupants of a motor vehicle who are
actively engaged in work that requires them to alight from and reenter the
vehicle at frequent intervals, providing the vehicle does not exceed twenty-
five miles per hour between stops.
      (3)   The driver of a motor vehicle while performing duties as a rural
letter carrier for the United States postal service. This exemption applies
only between the first delivery point after leaving the post office and the
last delivery point before returning to the post office.
      (4)   Passengers on a bus.
      (5)   A person possessing a written certification from a health care
provider licensed by the State of Iowa on a form provided by the Iowa
Department of Transportation that the person is unable to wear a safety belt or
safety harness due to physical or medical reasons. The certification shall
specify the time period for which the exemption applies. The time period shall
not exceed twelve months, at which time a new certification may be issued
unless the certifying health care provider is from a United States military
facility, in which case the certificate may specify a longer period of time or
a permanent exemption.
      (6)   Front seat occupants of an authorized emergency vehicle while they
are being transported in an emergency. However, this exemption does not apply
to the driver of the authorized emergency vehicle.
   3.   The driver and front seat passengers may be each charged separately for
improperly used or non-used equipment under subsection 2. However, the driver
shall not be charged for a violation committed by a passenger who is fourteen
years of age or older unless the passenger is unable to properly fasten a seat
belt due to a temporary or permanent disability. The owner of the motor vehicle
may be charged for equipment violations under subsection 1.
(Ord. #4247, 8/18/97; ’99 Rev.; Ord. #4674, 3/1/04; Ord. #4752, 1/10/05; Ord.
#5006, 9/13/10) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.445]
SEC. 492.   CHILD RESTRAINT DEVICES.492.   CHILD RESTRAINT DEVICES.
   1.   a.   A child under one year of age and weighing less than twenty pounds
who is being transported in a motor vehicle subject to registration, except a
school bus or motorcycle, shall be secured during transit in a rear-facing
child restraint system that is used in accordance with the manufacturer’s
instructions.
      b.   A child under six years of age who does not meet the description in
paragraph “a” and who is being transported in a motor vehicle subject to
registration, except a school bus or motorcycle, shall be secured during
transit by a child restraint system that is used in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions.
   2.   A child at least six years of age but under eighteen years of age who
is being transported in a motor vehicle subject to registration, except a
school bus or motorcycle, shall be secured during transit by a child restraint
system that is used in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions, or by a
safety belt and safety harness of a type approved under Section 491.
   This section does not apply to the following:
      Peace officers acting on official duty.
      The transportation of children in 1965 model year or older vehicles,
authorized emergency vehicles, buses, or motor homes, except when a child is
transported in a motor home’s passenger seat situated directly to the driver’s
right.
      The transportation of a child who has been certified by a physician
licensed under Iowa Code Chapter 148 as having a medical, physical, or mental
condition which prevents or makes inadvisable securing the child in a child
restraint system, safety belt, or safety harness.
      A back seat occupant of a motor vehicle for whom no safety belt is
available because all safety belts are being used by other occupants or cannot
be used due to the use of a child restraint system in the seating position for
which a belt is provided.
      A person who violates this section is guilty of a simple misdemeanor and
punishable as scheduled under the Iowa Code. Violations shall be charged as
follows:
      An operator who transports a passenger under fourteen years of age in
violation of subsection 1 or 2 may be charged with a violation of this section.
      If a passenger fourteen years of age or older is unable to properly
fasten a seatbelt due to a temporary or permanent disability, an operator who
transports such a person in violation of subsection 2 may be charged with a
violation of this section. Otherwise, a passenger fourteen years of age or
older who violates subsection 2 shall be charged in lieu of the operator.
      If a child under fourteen years of age, or a child fourteen years of age
or older who is unable to fasten a seatbelt due to a temporary or permanent
disability, is being transported in a taxicab in a manner that is not in
compliance with subsection 1 or 2, the parent, legal guardian, or other
responsible adult traveling with the child shall be served with a citation for
a violation of this section in lieu of the taxicab operator. Otherwise, if a
passenger being transported in the taxicab is fourteen years of age or older,
the citation shall be served on the passenger in lieu of the taxicab operator.
   5.   A person who is first charged for a violation of subsection l and who
has not purchased or otherwise acquired a child restraint system shall not be
convicted if the person produces in court, within a reasonable time, proof that
the person has purchased or otherwise acquired a child restraint system which
meets federal motor vehicle safety standards.
(’00 Rev.; Ord. #4753, 1/10/05; ’06 Rev.; ’08 Rev.; Ord. #5006, 9/13/10) [Ref.
Iowa Code §321.446]
SEC. 493-498. RESERVED.
SIZE, WEIGHT AND LOADWEIGHT AND LOAD
SEC. 499.   DRAWBARS AND SAFETY CHAINS.499.   DRAWBARS AND SAFETY CHAINS.
When one vehicle is towing or pulling another vehicle, the drawbar or other
connection shall be of sufficient strength to pull all weight towed thereby and
shall be fastened to the frame of the towing vehicle in such manner as to
prevent sidesway, and in addition to such principal connection there shall be a
safety chain which shall be so fastened as to be capable of holding the towed
vehicle should the principal connection for any reason fail. ('91 Rev.; Ord.
#4247, 8/18/97; ’99 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.462]
SEC. 500.   TRAILERS AND TOWED VEHICLES.500.   TRAILERS AND TOWED VEHICLES.
When one vehicle is towing another the drawbar or other connection shall not
exceed fifteen feet from one vehicle to the other except the connection between
any two vehicles transporting poles, pipe, machinery, or other objects of
structural nature which cannot readily be dismembered.
If the towing vehicle is a motor truck and the towed vehicle is a single
trailer with a single point of articulation at the hitch connection, the
drawbar or other connection shall not exceed twenty-one feet. The length of the
drawbar or other connection shall be measured from the centerline of the hitch
assembly on the towing vehicle to the front of the body of the towed vehicle. A
vehicle which has a drawbar or other connection which measures between fifteen
and twenty-one feet in length shall have at least one yellow reflector visible
on each vertical face of the drawbar or other connection, located near the
midpoint between the towing and the towed vehicle. A vehicle which has a
drawbar or other connection which measures between fifteen and twenty-one feet
in length shall have affixed to the rear of the towed vehicle a sign indicating
that the vehicle is a towed vehicle.
('95 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.461]
SEC. 501.   PROJECTING LOADS ON PASSENGER VEHICLES.501.   PROJECTING LOADS ON
PASSENGER VEHICLES.
No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on any highway with any load
carried thereon extending beyond the line of the fenders of the left side of
such vehicle nor extending more than six inches beyond the line of the fenders
on the right side thereof. Passengers shall not ride on any part of any vehicle
unless it is expressly designed either for passenger use or designed for
carrying livestock, merchandise, or freight.
The load upon any vehicle operated alone, or the load upon the front vehicle of
a combination of vehicles, shall not extend more than three feet beyond the
front wheels of such vehicle or the front bumper of such vehicle if it is
equipped with such a bumper.
('91 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.455, 458]
SEC. 502.   SPILLING LOADS ON STREETS OR ALLEYS.502.   SPILLING LOADS ON
STREETS OR ALLEYS.
No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway, street, or alley unless
such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, sifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand
may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other
substance may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining such
roadway. [Ref. Iowa Code §321.460]
SEC. 503.   SPILLING LOAD MATERIALS ON STREET.503.   SPILLING LOAD MATERIALS ON
STREET.
All trucks, wagons, or other vehicles of whatever kind or nature, used for
transporting of sand, gravel, cinders, crushed rock, or other like or similar
materials shall be equipped with a box or body to contain such material or
materials which said box or body shall be tight or sealed in such a manner that
no such material or any portion thereof shall leak or be involuntarily
discharged onto any street or public alley within the corporate limits of the
City of Waterloo.
No such vehicle equipped as before stated shall be loaded beyond that point
where any portion of the load of sand, gravel, cinders, crushed rock, or other
like or similar materials, reaches above and beyond a point not less than six
inches from the lowest point of the top perimeter of the box or body of said
truck, wagon, or other vehicle, unless the entire top of said vehicle box or
body shall be covered with canvas, tarpaulin, wood, or other material which
said top or other material, shall be firmly lashed or fastened to said box or
body to prevent the accidental loss of any portion of said load.
[Ref. Iowa Code §321.460]
SEC. 504-513. RESERVED.
CRIMINAL RESPONSIBILITYRESPONSIBILITY
SEC. 514.   PENALTIES FOR MISDEMEANOR.514.   PENALTIES FOR MISDEMEANOR.
It is a misdemeanor for any person to do any act forbidden or to fail to
perform any act required by any of the provisions of this ordinance unless any
such violation is by this ordinance or other law of this State declared to be a
serious or aggravated misdemeanor or a felony. Every person convicted of a
simple misdemeanor for a violation of any of the provisions of this ordinance
for which another penalty is not provided, shall be punished by a fine of not
less than Sixty-five Dollars ($65.00) and no more than Six Hundred Twenty-five
Dollars ($625.00) and/or by imprisonment for not more than thirty days. ('95
Rev.; ’08 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.482]
SEC. 515.   OFFENSES BY OWNERS.515.   OFFENSES BY OWNERS.
It is unlawful for the owner, or any other person, employing or otherwise
directing the driver of any vehicle to require or knowingly to permit the
operation of such vehicle upon a highway in any manner contrary to law. [Ref.
Iowa Code §321.484]
SEC. 516.   NOTICE TO APPEAR.516.   NOTICE TO APPEAR.
Whenever a peace officer has reasonable cause to believe that a person has
violated any provision of this ordinance punishable as a simple misdemeanor,
such officer may:
   1.   Immediately arrest such person and take the person before a magistrate
of the county in which the apparent violation occurred; or
   2.   Without arresting the person, either
      (a)   Prepare a written citation to appear in court containing the name
and address of such person, the motor vehicle license number, if any, the
registration number, if any, of the person's vehicle, the offense charged, and
the time and place the person shall appear in court; or
      (b)   Prepare a memorandum of the alleged traffic violation containing
the name and address of such person, the registration number, if any, of the
person's vehicle, the offense alleged to have been committed, and such other
information as may be prescribed by the commissioner of public safety with the
concurrence of the director of transportation.
('91 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.485(1)]
SEC. 517.   NOTICE TO APPEAR--PROMISE TO APPEAR517.   NOTICE TO APPEAR--PROMISE
TO APPEAR
If the officer prepares either a citation or a memorandum as provided in Iowa
Code §321.485, the alleged offender shall be requested to sign it. If the
person signs, the person may be released without arrest. In case a citation is
issued, the signing shall constitute a written promise to appear as stated in
the citation. A copy of the citation shall be presented to the person named
therein. If a memorandum is prepared, the original shall be retained by the
officer, and a copy shall be sent to the department, and a copy shall be
presented to the person named therein.
('91 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.485(2)]
SEC. 518.   VIOLATION OF PROMISE TO APPEAR.518.   VIOLATION OF PROMISE TO
APPEAR.
Any person willfully violating a citation to appear in court given as provided
in this ordinance, is guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in
Section 514 regardless of the disposition of the charge upon which the person
was cited.
An appearance in response to such citation may be made either in person or by
counsel.
('91 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.487]
SEC. 519.   PROCEDURE NOT EXCLUSIVE.519.   PROCEDURE NOT EXCLUSIVE.
The provisions of this ordinance shall govern all peace officers in making
arrests without a warrant for violations of this ordinance for offenses
committed in their presence, but the procedure prescribed herein shall not be
exclusive of any other method prescribed by law for the arrest and prosecution
of a person. (’10 Rev.) [Ref. Iowa Code §321.488]
SEC. 520.   RECORD INADMISSIBLE IN A CIVIL ACTION.520.   RECORD INADMISSIBLE IN
A CIVIL ACTION.
No record of the conviction of any person for any violation of this ordinance
shall be admissible as evidence in any court in any civil action. [Ref. Iowa
Code §321.489]
SEC. 521.   CONVICTION NOT TO AFFECT CREDIBILITY.521.   CONVICTION NOT TO
AFFECT CREDIBILITY.
The conviction of a person upon a charge of violating any provision of this
ordinance or other traffic regulation less than a felony shall not affect or
impair the credibility of such person as a witness in any civil or criminal
proceeding. [Ref. Iowa Code §321.490]
SEC. 522.   SEVERABILITY.
If any rule, section or part of this ordinance shall be held to be invalid or
unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity or
unconstitutionality shall not affect the validity of the remaining parts of
this ordinance, and the City Council of the City of Waterloo, Iowa, hereby
declares that it would have passed the remaining parts of this ordinance if it
had known that such part or parts hereof would be declared unconstitutional or
illegal.
SEC. 523-538. RESERVED.
DESIGNATED STREETS OR PORTIONS THEREOFSTREETS OR PORTIONS THEREOF
SEC. 539.   NO TURN ALLOWED AT RED LIGHT.539.   NO TURN ALLOWED AT RED LIGHT.
   (A)   Vehicular traffic shall not be permitted to turn at a red light, when
signs are posted, at the following intersections:
      (1)   Ansborough Avenue and southbound ramp
      (2)   Campbell Avenue, Kimball Avenue and Williston Avenue
      (3)   Commercial Street and Fifth Street (W)
      (4)   Fletcher Avenue and southbound ramp
      (5)   Fourth Street (E) and Walnut Street
      (6)   Hillcrest Avenue and Ridgeway Avenue
      (7)   Ninth Street (W) and northbound service road for Washington
      (8)   Park Avenue and Sycamore Street
      (9)   Sixth Street (W) and northbound service road
   (B)   Vehicular traffic shall not be permitted to turn at a red light when
pedestrians are present, when signs are posted, at the following intersections:
      (1)   Easton Avenue and W. Eleventh Street
      (2)   Falls Avenue and Stephan Avenue
      (3)   Falls Avenue and University Avenue
      (4)   W. Fifth Street and Locust Street
      (5)   Idaho Street and Independence Avenue
      (6)   Kimball Avenue and Mitchell Avenue
      (7)    Kimball Avenue and Ridgeway Avenue (Ord. #4782, 9/6/05)
(This whole section changed by Ord. #4002, 1/18/94; Ord. #4760, 3/14/05)
Jefferson Street and Mullan Avenue (Deleted by 2000 Rev.)
SEC. 540.   OBEDIENCE TO OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.540.   OBEDIENCE TO
OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
The driver of any vehicle and the motorman of any streetcar shall obey the
instructions of any official traffic-control devices as named herein unless
otherwise directed by a police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the
driver of an authorized emergency vehicle (This whole section was changed by
Ord. #3526, 2/22/88; and Ord. #3989, 11/22/93):
   SIGNALIZED INTERSECTIONS
      (1)   Adrian St. and Lafayette St.--Pushbutton Ped. School
      (2)   Airline Hwy. and Logan Ave. aka Hwy. 63--Full Actuated
      (3)   Airport Blvd. and Broadway St. eastbound (Ramp B)--Full Actuated
(Ord. #3685, 12/11/89)
      (4)   Airport Blvd. and Broadway St. westbound (Ramp C and Ramp E)--Full
Actuated (Ord. #3685, 12/11/89)
      (5)   Almond St. and Mullan Ave. aka Hwy. 63--Semi-Actuated Pushbutton
Ped.
      (6)   Ansborough Ave. and Black Hawk Rd.--Full Actuated Pushbutton Ped.
      (7)   Ansborough Ave., Conger, River Rd. and Westfield Ave.--Full
Actuated
      (8)   Ansborough Ave. and Downing Ave.--Full Actuated (Ord. #4201, 10/21/
96)
      (9)   Ansborough Ave. and Falls Ave.--Full Actuated Pushbutton Ped.
      (9a)   Ansborough Avenue and Fisher Drive – Full Actuated Pushbutton Ped.
(Ord. #5503, 7/8/19)
      (10)   Ansborough Ave. and Fourth Street (W)--Full Actuated (Ord. #3685,
12/11/89)
      (11)   Ansborough Ave. and Home Park Blvd.--Full Actuated (Ord. #3685,
12/11/89)
      (12)   Ansborough Avenue and Martin Road--Full Actuated (Ord. #3685, 12/
11/89)
      (13)   Ansborough Ave. and Maynard St.--Full Actuated
      (14)   Ansborough Avenue and Olympic Drive—Full Actuated (Ord. #4869, 5/
21/07)
      (15)   Ansborough Avenue and Ridgeway Avenue--Full Actuated (Ord. #3685,
12/11/89)
      (16)   Ansborough Avenue and San Marnan Drive—Full Actuated (Ord. #4252,
9/8/97)
      (17)   Ansborough Ave. and Sergeant Rd.--Full Actuated
      (18)   Ansborough Avenue and Stratford--Full Actuated (Ord. #3685, 12/11/
89)
      (19)   Ansborough Ave. and University Ave.--Full Actuated
      (20)   Ansborough Ave. and Washington St. (W) aka Hwy. 218--Full Actuated
      (21)   Arlington St. and Logan Ave. aka Hwy. 63--Pushbutton Ped. School
      (22)   Baltimore St. and Hawthorne Ave.--Pushbutton Ped. School
      (23)   Baltimore St. and Mitchell Ave.--Full Actuated Pushbutton Ped.
      (24)   Baltimore St. and Williston Ave.--Semi-Actuated Pushbutton Ped.
      (25)   Barclay (S) and Martin Luther King Jr. Dr.--Full Actuated
      (26)   Bayard Ave. and Fifth St. (W)--Full Actuated
      (27)   Bayard Ave. and Fourth St. (W)--Full Actuated Pushbutton Ped.
      (28)   Broadway St. and Burton Ave.--Full Actuated
      (29)   Broadway St. and Cedar Bend St.--Pre-Timed
      (30)   Broadway St. and Conger St.--Full Actuated Pushbutton Ped.
      (31)   Broadway St. and Donald/Longfellow St.--Full Actuated
      (32)   Repealed
      (33)   Broadway St. and Park Rd.--Full Actuated
      (34)   Broadway St. and Parker St. (West)--Full Actuated Pushbutton Ped.
      (35)   Broadway St. eastbound and Ramp A (from Hwy. 218)--Full Actuated
(Ord. #3685, 12/11/89)
      (36)   Broadway St. westbound and Ramp A and Ramp E (from Hwy. 218)--Full
Actuated (Ord. #3685, 12/11/89)
      (37)   Broadway St. and Wagner Rd.--Full Actuated (Ord. #4188, 8/26/96)
      (38)   Brookeridge Drive and Kimball Avenue (Ord. #4097, 5/22/95)
      (39)   Burton Ave. and Parker St.--Full Actuated Pushbutton Ped.
      (40)   Campbell Ave. and Fletcher Ave.--Semi-Actuated Pushbutton Ped.
      (41)   Campbell Ave. and Fourth (W), Kimball and Williston--Full Actuated
      (42)   Repealed
      (43)   Commercial St. and Eighteenth St. (W)--Full Actuated
      (44)   Commercial St. and Eleventh St. (W)--Pre-Timed
      (45)   Commercial St. and Fifth St. (W)--Pre-Timed
      (46)   Commercial St. and First St. (W) aka Hwy. 63--Pre-Timed
      (47)   Commercial St. and Fourth St. (W)--Pre-Timed
      (48)   Commercial St. and Mullan Ave. (W) aka Hwy. 63--Pre-Timed
      (49)   Commercial St. and Park Ave. (W)--Pre-Timed
      (50)   Commercial St. and River Rd.--Full Actuated Pushbutton Ped.
      (51)   Commercial St. and Sixth St. (W)--Pre-Timed
      (51a)   Dale Street (W) and Reed Street—Semi-Actuated (Ord. #4958, 9/14/
09)
      (52)   Dane St. and Mullan Ave.--Full Actuated Pushbutton Ped.
      (53)   Deere Rd. and Ridgeway Ave. (W)--Full Actuated
      (54)   Donald St. and Logan Ave. aka Hwy. 63--Full Actuated Pushbutton
Ped.
      (55)   Donald St. (West) between Logan and Heath--Pushbutton Pedestrian
(Ord. #3688, 1/2/90)
      (56)   Downing Avenue and Katoski Drive--Full Actuated (Ord. #3685, 12/
11/89)
      (57)   Downing Ave. and Wren Rd.--Pushbutton Ped. School
      (58)   Dubuque Rd. and Idaho St.--Full Actuated Pushbutton Ped.
      (58a)   Dubuque Road and Osage Road – Full Actuated (Ord. #5450, 5/14/18)
      (59)   Dysart Road and Shaulis Road—Full Actuated (Ord. #4852, 1/22/07)
      (60)   Easton Ave. and Eleventh St. (W)—Full Actuated Pushbutton Ped.
(Ord. 4986, 5/3/10)
      (61)   Easton Ave. and Hammond Ave.—Full Actuated Pushbutton Ped. (Ord.
4986, 5/3/10)
      (62)   Eighteenth Street (W) and Washington St. northbound aka Hwy. 218 -
-Full Actuated (Ord. #3685, 12/11/89)
      (63)   Eleventh St. (E) and Franklin St.--Full Actuated Pushbutton Ped.
      (64)   Eleventh St. (W) and Jefferson St.--Pre-Timed
      (65)   Eleventh St. (E) and Lafayette St.--Pre-Timed
      (66)   (repealed by Ord. #5295, 7/20/15)
      (67)   Eleventh St. (E) and Sycamore St.--Pre-Timed
      (68)   Eleventh St. (W) and Washington St. northbound aka Hwy. 218--Full
Actuated (Ord. #3685, 12/11/89)
      (69)   Eleventh St. (W) and Washington St. southbound aka Hwy. 218--Full
Actuated (Ord. #3685, 12/11/89)
      (70)   Eleventh St. (W) and Williston Avenue—Full Actuated (Ord. #4574,
9/9/02)
      (71)   N. Elk Run Road and Martin Luther King Jr. Drive—Full Actuated
(Ord. #4485, 6/11/01)
      (71a)   Esther Street and Logan Avenue (Highway 63)—Full Actuated
Pushbutton Ped. (Ord. #5059, 7/11/11)
      (72)   Falls Ave. and Fletcher Ave.--Semi-Actuated
      (73)   (repealed by Ord. #5244, 10/13/14)
      (74)   Falls Ave. and Stephan Ave.--Semi-Actuated Pushbutton Ped.
      (75)   Falls Ave. and University Ave.--Full Actuated Pushbutton Ped.
      (76)   Fifth St. (E) and Franklin St.--Pre-Timed
      (77)   Fifth St. (W) and Jefferson St.--Pre-Timed
      (78)   Fifth St. (E) and Lafayette St.--Pre-Timed
      (79)   Fifth St. (W) and Locust--Full Actuated
      (80)   Fifth St. (E) and Mulberry St.--Pre-Timed
      (81)   Fifth St. (E) and Sycamore St.--Pre-Timed
      (82)   Fifth St. (W) and Washington St. northbound--Full Actuated
      (83)   Fifth St. (W) and Washington St. southbound--Full Actuated
      (84)   Fifth St. (E) and Water St.--Pre-Timed
      (85)   First St. (E) and Franklin St.--Full Actuated
      (86)   First St. (W) and Jefferson St.--Pre-Timed (Repealed by Ord.
#4297, 5/18/98)
      (87)   First St. (E) and Lafayette St.--Pre-Timed
      (88)   First St. (E) and Mulberry St.--Pre-Timed (Deleted by Ord. #5440,
2/19/18)
      (89)   First St. (W) aka Hwy. 63 northbound and Mullan Ave. (W)--Full
Actuated
      (90)   First St. (E) and Sycamore St. – Pre-Timed (Deleted by Ord. #5440,
2/19/18)
      (91)   First St. (W) aka Hwy. 63 northbound and Washington St. (Hwy. 218
Ramp)--Full Actuated
      (92)   Flammang Dr. and San Marnan Dr.--Full Actuated
      (93)   Flammang Dr. and Sarah--Full Actuated
      (94)   Fletcher Ave. and Sergeant Rd. aka Hwy. 63--Full Actuated
      (95)   Fletcher Ave. and University Ave.--Full Actuated
      (96)   Fletcher Ave. and Washington St. (W) aka Hwy. 218--Full Actuated
      (97)   Fletcher Ave. and Westfield Ave.--Full Actuated
      (98)   Fourth St. (E) and Franklin St.--Pre-Timed
      (99)   Fourth St. (W) and Grant Ave.--Full Actuated
      (100)   Fourth St. (W) and Hubbard Ave.--Pushbutton Ped. School
      (101)   Fourth St. (W) and Jefferson St.--Pre-Timed
      (102)   Fourth St. (E) and Lafayette St.--Pre-Timed
      (103)   Fourth St. (W) and Locust St.--Full Actuated
      (104)   Fourth St. (E) and Mulberry St.--Pre-Timed
      (105)   Fourth St. (W) and Ridgeway Ave.--Full Actuated (Ord. #3759, 12/
26/90)
      (106)   Fourth St. (E) and Sycamore St.--Pre-Timed
      (107)   Fourth St. (E) and Walnut St.--Pre-Timed
      (108)   Fourth St. (W) and Washington St. southbound--Full Actuated
      (109)   Fourth St. (W) and Wellington St.--Pushbutton Ped. School
      (110)   Franklin St. and Mullan Ave. (E) aka Hwy. 63--Full Actuated
Pushbutton Ped.
      (111)   Franklin St. and Nevada St.--Full Actuated Pushbutton Ped.
      (112)   Franklin St. and Park Ave.--Pre-Timed
      (113)   Franklin St. and Sixth St. (E)--Pre-Timed
      (114)   Franklin St. and Third St. (E)—Full Actuated (00 Rev.)
      (115)   Franklin St. and Vinton St.--Full Actuated Pushbutton Ped.
      (116)   Greenhill Rd. and Katoski Drive--Full Actuated
      (117)   Greenhill Rd. and Maynard Ave.--Full Actuated (Ord. #3685, 12/11/
89)
      (117A)   Greenhill Rd. and Progress Ave. – Full Actuated Push Button
Pedestrian Signal. (Ord. #5406, 7/10/17)
      (118)   Greenhill Rd. and Rainbow Dr.--Full Actuated (Ord. #3685, 12/11/
89)
      (119)   Greenhill Rd. and Ramp A and Ramp C (to and from Washington (W)
aka Hwy. 218)--Full Actuated (Ord. #3685, 12/11/89)
      (120)   Greenhill Rd. and Ramps 1 and 2 (to and from University Avenue)--
Full Actuated (Ord. #3685, 12/11/89)
      (121)   Greenhill Rd. and Ramps 3 and 4 (to and from University Avenue)--
Full Actuated (Ord. #3685, 12/11/89)
      (122)   Hammond Ave. and San Marnan Dr.--Full Actuated
      (123)   Hawkeye Rd. aka Hwy. 21 and San Marnan Dr.--Full Actuated
      (124)   Hawkeye Road and Orange Road (Ord. #4097, 5/22/95)
      (125)   Hawthorne Ave. and Ninth St. (W)--Pushbutton Ped. School
      (126)   Hawthorne Ave. and Washington St. aka Hwy. 218--Semi-Actuated
      (127) Highway 20 and Iowa Highway 21 Ramps—Full Actuated (Ord. #4872, 6/
4/07)
      (128)   Hwy. 20 and Sergeant Rd. (North Ramp)--Full Actuated
      (129)   Hwy. 20 and Sergeant Rd. (South Ramp)--Full Actuated
      (130)   Hillcrest Rd. and Ridgeway Ave. (W)--Full Actuated Pushbutton
Ped.
      (130A)   Iowa Hwy 21, (Hawkeye Road), at Shaulis Road, a full actuated
push button Pedestrian Signal. (Ord. #5382, 1/9/17)
      (131)   I-380 and Mitchell Ave.--Full Actuated
      (132)   I-380 and San Marnan Dr. (Southbound Ramp)--Semi-Actuated
      (133)   I-380 (Northbound Ramp) and San Marnan Drive (Ord. #4097, 5/22/
95)
      (134)   Idaho St. and Independence Ave.--Full Actuated Pushbutton Ped.
      (135)   Idaho St. and Monroe St.--Pushbutton Ped. School
      (136)   Idaho St. and Martin Luther King Jr. Dr.—Full Actuated (2000
Rev.)
      (137)   Isle of Capri Blvd. and Shaulis Road—Full Actuated (Ord. #4852,
1/22/07)
      (138)   Jefferson St. and Mullan Ave. (W)--Pre-Timed
      (139)   Jefferson St. and Park Ave. (W)--Pre-Timed
      (140)   Jefferson St. and Sixth St. (W)--Pre-Timed
      (141)   Kimball Ave. and Mitchell Ave.—Full Actuated (Ord. #4500, 8/20/
01)
      (142)   Kimball Ave. and Park Lane--Full Actuated (Ord. #3759, 12/26/90)
      (143)   Kimball Ave. and Rachael St. (Ord. #4483, 6/4/01)
      (144)   Kimball Ave. and Ridgeway Ave.--Full Actuated
      (145)   Kimball Ave. and San Marnan Dr.--Full Actuated
      (145a)   Kimball Avenue—Activated Hybrid Beacons (Ord. #5189, 11/4/13)
      (146)   Lafayette St. and Linden Ave.--Pushbutton Ped.
      (147)   Lafayette St. and Park Ave. (E)--Pre-Timed
      (148)   Lafayette St. and Sixth St. (E)--Pre-Timed
      (149)   Lafayette St. and Vinton St.--Full Actuated
      (150)   LaPorte Rd. and Mitchell Ave.--Semi-Actuated
      (151)   LaPorte Rd. and San Marnan Dr.--Semi-Actuated
      (152)   Linden and Martin Luther King Jr. Drive—Full Actuated (Ord.
#4252, 9/8/97)
      (153)   (deleted by Ord. #5251, 10/27/2014)
      (154)   Logan Ave. aka Hwy. 63 and Parker St.--Full Actuated Pushbutton
Ped.
      (154a)   Logan Ave. aka Hwy. 63 and Dale St—Full Actuated Pushbutton Ped.
(Ord. #5250, 10/27/14)
      (154b)   Lost Island Island Water Park and Shaulis Road -- Full Actuated
Pushbutton Ped. (Ord. #5639, 4/4/22)
      (154c)   Lost Island Island Water Park and Shaulis Road -- Full Actuated
Pushbutton Ped. (Ord. #5640, 4/4/22)
      (155)   Martin Luther King Jr. Drive and Northeast Drive—Full Actuated
(Ord. #4485, 6/11/01)
      (156)   Martin Luther King Jr. Dr. northbound and Walnut--Full Actuated
      (157)   Martin Luther King Jr. Dr. southbound and Walnut--Full Actuated
      (158)   Midway Dr. and University Ave.--Full Actuated
      (159)   Mitchell Ave. and Sixth St. (W)--Pushbutton Ped. School
      (160)   Mobile St. and Sumner St.--Pushbutton Ped. School
      (161)   Mulberry St. and Park Ave. (E)--Pre-Timed
      (162)   Mulberry St. and Sixth St. (E)--Pre-Timed
      (163)   Mullan Ave. (E) and Newell St.--Full Actuated
      (164)   Ninth St. (W) and Ridgeway Ave. (E)--Full Actuated Pushbutton
Ped.
      (165)   Ninth St. (W) and Washington St. northbound aka Hwy. 218--Full
Actuated
      (166)   Ninth St. (W) and Washington St. southbound aka Hwy. 218--Full
Actuated
      (167)   Ninth St. (W) and Williston Ave.--Full Actuated
      (168)   Oregon Ave. and Williston Ave.--Pushbutton Ped. School
      (169)   Park Ave. (E) and Sycamore St.--Pre-Timed
      (170)   Park Ave. (E) and Walnut St.--Pre-Timed
      (171)   Park Ave. (W) and Washington St. northbound--Full Actuated
      (172)   Park Ave. (W) and Washington St. southbound--Full Actuated
      (173)   Penneys Dr. and San Marnan Dr.--Full Actuated
      (174)   Progress Ave. and University Ave.--Full Actuated
      (175)   Ridgeway Ave. (W) and Sergeant Rd. aka Hwy. 63--Full Actuated
      (176)   Ridgeway Ave. (W) and Sheridan Rd.--Pushbutton Ped. School
      (177)   Sager Ave. and University Ave.--Full Actuated
      (178)   San Marnan Dr. and Sears Dr.--Full Actuated
      (179)   San Marnan Dr. and Shopper Blvd.--Full Actuated
      (180)   Sergeant Rd. aka Hwy. 63 and University Ave. aka Hwy. 218--Full
Actuated
      (181)   Sergeant Rd. aka Hwy. 63 and Washington (W) Hwy. 218 Ramp--Full
Actuated
      (182)   Sergeant Rd. and W. Third Street (Ord. #4097, 5/22/95)
      (183)   Shaulis Rd. and Washington St. aka Hwy. 218--Full Actuated
      (184)   Sixth St. (E) and Sycamore St.--Pre-Timed
      (185)   Sixth St. (W) and Washington northbound--Full Actuated
      (186)   Sixth St. (W) and Washington southbound--Full Actuated
      (187)   Sixth St. (W) and Williston Ave.--Pushbutton Ped. School
      (188)   University Ave. and Holiday Station Access Rd.--Full Actuated
      (189)   University Ave. and Platts/K-Mart Access Rd.--Full Actuated
      (190)   University Ave. and Wallgate Ave.--Full Actuated Pushbutton Ped.
      (191)   Vaughn St. and Westfield Ave.--Pushbutton Ped.
      (192)   Washington St. southbound aka Hwy. 218 and Williston Avenue--Full
Actuated (Ord. #3685, 12/11/89)
Ansborough Ave. and Rainbow Dr.--Pre-Timed (Repealed by Ord. #3989, 11/22/93)
Baltimore St. and Fifth St. (W)--Pushbutton Ped. School (Repealed by Ord.
#3989, 11/22/93)
Baltimore St. and Fourth St. (W)--Pushbutton Ped. School (Repealed by Ord.
#3989, 11/22/93)
Black Hawk Road and Fletcher Avenue (Ord. #3531, 3/7/88; repealed by Ord.
#3989, 11/22/93)
Broadway St. and Edwards St.--Pushbutton Ped. School (Repealed by Ord. #4999,
7/12/10)
Burton Ave. and Newton St.--Pushbutton Ped. School (Repealed by Ord. #4776, 7/
11/05)
Charles St. and Fourth St. (E)--Pushbutton Ped. School (Repealed by Ord. #4987,
5/3/10)
Cleveland Ave. and Westfield Ave.--Pushbutton Ped. (Repealed by Ord. #3989, 11/
22/93)
Edwards St. and Logan Ave.--Pushbutton Ped. School (Repealed by Ord. #4097, 5/
22/95)
Eleventh St. (W) and Williston Ave.--Semi-Actuated (Deleted by 2000 Rev.)
Fifteenth St. (W) at Washington St. (Midblock)--Pushbutton Ped. School
(Repealed by Ord. #3989, 11/22/93)
Fifth St. (W) and Randolph St.--Pushbutton Ped. School (Repealed by Ord. #3989,
11/22/93)
First St. (W) and Washington St. (Hwy. 218)--Pre-Timed (Repealed by Ord. #3989,
11/22/93)
Jefferson St. and Third St. (W) (Repealed by Ord. #4545, 3/25/02)
John Deere on Westfield Ave. (Gates 1, 4, 5 and 6)--Pushbutton Ped. (Repealed
by Ord. #3989, 11/22/93)
Lincoln St. and Logan Ave.--Pushbutton Ped. School (Repealed by Ord. #4577, 9/
23/02)
Locust St. and Third St. (W)--Full Actuated (Repealed by Ord. #3728, 7/16/90)
Mulberry St. and Vinton St.--Pushbutton Ped. School (Repealed by Ord. #4661,
12/8/03)
Mullan Ave. (W) and Washington St. (Hwy. 218)--Pre-Timed (Repealed by Ord.
#3989, 11/22/93)
Rainbow Dr. and Spieker Rd.--Pushbutton Ped. School (Repealed by Ord. #3989,
11/22/93)
Sycamore St. and Vinton St. (Repealed by Ord. #3660, 6/13/88)
Third St. (W) and Washington St. (Hwy. 218)--Pre-Timed (Repealed by Ord. #3989,
11/22/93)
      (73)   Falls Ave. and Magnolia Pkwy.--Pushbutton Ped. School (repealed by
Ord. #5244, 10/13/14)
      (153) Logan Ave. at Logan School (midblock) pushbutton Ped School
(deleted by Ord. #5251, 10/27/2014.
      (66)   Eleventh St. (W) and Ridgeway Ave. (E)--Pushbutton Ped. School
(repealed by Ord. #5295, 7/20/15)
SEC 540A.   ACTIVATED HYBRID BEACONS.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any activated
hybrid beacon as named herein unless otherwise directed by a police office,
subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle: (Ord. #5296, 7/20/15)
      E. Ridgeway Avenue in the 1500 block at 1525 E. Ridgeway.
      LaPorte Road in the 1800 block at the fire station.
      Orange Road in the 1500 block at Hawkeye Community College.
SEC. 541.   INCREASING SPEED LIMITS IN CERTAIN AREAS.541.   INCREASING SPEED
LIMITS IN CERTAIN AREAS.
Speeds hereinafter stated in excess of those stated in Section 150 hereof are
hereby authorized on the streets or portions thereof described in this section
upon the posting of signs giving notice thereof as follows:
STREETS   MAXIMUM SPEED
      (1)   Airline Highway (East) -
         from Logan Avenue also known as U.S. Highway 63 North to the easterly
corporate limits   45 mph
      (2)   Airline Highway (West) also known as Highway 57 -
         from Logan Avenue to the west corporate limits   45 mph
(Ord. #4229, 4/21/97)
      (3)   Ansborough Avenue - from Rainbow Drive to San Marnan Drive   35 mph
         from San Marnan Drive to southerly corporate limits    45 mph
(Ord. #3241, 9/7/82; Ord. #3554, 5/9/88; Ord. #4585, 11/18/02)
      (4)   Baltimore Street -
         from West Fifth Street to East Ridgeway Avenue   30 mph
(4a)   Bishop Avenue -
   from 1200 block to Independence Avenue            30 mph
   from Independence Avenue to Martin Luther King Jr. Drive      35 mph
(Ord. #5665, 10/17/22)
      (5)   Black Hawk Road -
         from Cleveland to dike on Black Hawk Road   30 mph
         from dike on Black Hawk Road to Katoski Drive   35 mph
      (6)   Broadway Street -
         from the west corporate limits to 100 feet west of Longfellow
Avenue   55 mph
         from 100 feet west of Longfellow Avenue to 100 feet west of Grandview
Avenue   50 mph
         from 100 feet west of Grandview Avenue to Utica Street   35 mph
(Ord. #3042, 5/18/81; Ord. #3710, 5/29/90)
      (7)   Burton Avenue -
         from north city limits to 1500 feet north of Airline Highway   45 mph
         from 1500 feet north of Airline Highway to Airline Highway   35 mph
         from Airline Highway to Midland Drive   45 mph
         from Midland Drive to Conger Street   30 mph
         from Conger Street to West Park Road   25 mph
(Ord. #3241, 9/7/82; Ord. #3513, 11/16/87; Ord. #5043, 4/18/11)
      (8)   Campbell Avenue -
         from West Fourth Street to Fletcher Avenue    30 mph
(Ord. #3241, 9/7/82)
      (9)   Cedar Bend -
         from Broadway Street to Walker Street   35 mph
         from Walker Street to West Parker Street   25 mph
(Ord. #4714, 9/7/04)
      (10)   Cedar Terrace -
         from Shaulis Road to LaPorte Road   35 mph
         from Shaulis Road to Foulk Road   25 mph
      (11)   Commercial Street -
         from LaPorte Road to Mullan Avenue   30 mph
(Ord. #4965, 10/12/09)
      (11a)   Commercial Street (West) -
         0 to 400 blocks inclusive   30 mph
(Ord. #4965, 10/12/09)
      (12)   Conger Street -
         from Rainbow Drive to Broadway Street   35 mph
         from Broadway Street to Logan Avenue   30 mph
(Ord. #3241, 9/7/82)
      (13)   Deere Road -
         from northerly corporate limits to West Ridgeway Avenue   45 mph
      (14)   Dewitt Road -
         from Ridgeway Avenue to the dead end of Dewitt Road   25 mph
(Ord. #4435, 9/11/00)
      (15)   Donald Street -
         from North Elk Run Road to Sage Road   55 mph
         from Sage Road to Moline Road   45 mph
         from Moline Road to Highway 63   30 mph
         from Highway 63 to Heath Street   25 mph
         from Heath Street to 500 feet west of Columbia Street   30 mph
         from 500 feet west of Columbia Street to Longfellow Avenue   35 mph
(Ord. #3241, 9/7/82; Ord. #3347, 6/25/84; Ord. #3589, 10/10/88; Ord. #4888, 11/
5/07)
      (16)   Dubuque Road -
         from Utica Street to Nevada Street   35 mph
         from Nevada St. to 400 feet east of Idaho St.   45 mph
         from 400 feet east of Idaho St. to the east corporate limits   55 mph
(Ord. #3042, 5/18/81)
      (17)   Dysart Road -
         from Shaulis Rd. to the southern corporate limits   45 mph
(Ord. 4316, 7/20/98; Ord. #4392, 11/1/99)
      (18)   Eighteenth Street -
         from east end of 18th St. Bridge to Williston Ave.   30 mph
      (19)   Eleventh Street -
         from Franklin Street to 200 feet north of Easton   30 mph
         from 200 feet north of Easton to Ridgeway Avenue   25 mph
(Ord. #4120, 8/7/95)
      (20)   Fairview Avenue -
         from Park Road to Lafayette Street   30 mph
      (21)   Falls Avenue -
         from Duryea Street to Fletcher Avenue   30 mph
         from Fletcher Avenue to University Avenue   25 mph
(Ord. #4162, 4/8/96)
      (22)   Fifth Street northbound –
         From Martha to Baltimore Street         35 mph
         From Baltimore Street to Locust Street
         (Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. and 3:15 p.m. to 4:15
p.m. during school)   25 mph
         All other times                     35 mph
         From Locust to Grant                  35 mph
         Fifth Street southbound –
         From South to Randolph
         - School zone when lights flashing)            25 mph
         From Walnut Street to Washington            30 mph
         From Washington southbound to Grant            35 mph
(Ord. 4002, 1/18/94; Ord. 4703 7/6/04; Ord. 5304, 9/14/15)
      (23)   First Street -
         from Locust Street to Washington Street   25 mph
         from Washington Street to Franklin Street   35 mph
(Ord. #3717, 6/18/90)
      (24)   Fletcher Avenue -
         from West Fourth Street to Westfield Avenue   30 mph
(Ord. #3241, 9/7/82; 2000 Rev.)
      (25)   Fourth Street -
         from Donald Street to Walnut Street   30 mph
         from Walnut Street to Fifth Street   25 mph
         from Fifth Street to Kimball Avenue   35 mph
         from Kimball Avenue to West Ridgeway Avenue   30 mph
         from West Ridgeway Avenue to southerly corporate limits   35 mph
(Ord. #3241, 9/7/82; Ord. #4002, 1/18/94)
      (26)   Franklin Street -
         from Utica Street to Nevada Street   35 mph
      (27)   Greenhill Road -
         from Rainbow Drive to Katoski Drive   45 mph
(Ord. #3606, 12/12/88)
      (28)   Greyhound Drive -
         in the 3000 and 3100 blocks   45 mph
         in the 3200 block (on the curve)   35 mph
('91 Rev.; Ord. #4576, 9/16/02)
      (29)   Hammond Avenue -
         from the southerly corporate limits to San Marnan Drive   35 mph
         from San Marnan Drive to South Street   30 mph
(Ord. #3232, 8/2/82; Ord. #3292, 7/18/83; Ord. #4203, 10/21/96; Ord. #4210, 11/
25/96; Ord. #4217, 1/21/97)
      (30)   Hawkeye Road -
         from the south corporate limits to the junction of Iowa Highway
412   55 mph
      (31)   Hoff Road -
         from West Fourth St. to West Shaulis Road    35 mph
         from West Shaulis Road to the southerly corporate limits   45 mph
      (32)   Hess Road -
         from Grimm to south of Murphy Road   35 mph
         from south of Murphy Road to Shaulis Road    45 mph
(Ord. #3364, 9/4/84)
      (33)   Highway 63 -
         from the southerly corporate limits to 550 feet south of Ansborough
Avenue   55 mph
         from 550 feet south of Ansborough Avenue to 2,590 feet north of
Fletcher Avenue   50 mph
         from 2,590 feet north of Fletcher Avenue to 1,000 feet north of Donald
Street   35 mph
         from 1,000 feet north of Donald St. to 1,800 feet north of Donald
St.   45 mph
         from 1,800 feet north of Donald St. to the northerly corporate limits
   55 mph
(Ord. #4453, 1/16/01)
      (34)   Huntington Road -
         from Black Hawk Road to Scott Street   25 mph
         from Scott Street to Katoski Drive   30 mph
         from Katoski Drive to westerly corporate limits   45 mph
(Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; Ord. #3766, 2/11/91)
      (35)   Idaho Street -
         from Dubuque Road to French Street   30 mph
         from French Street to Prospect Avenue   25 mph
         from Prospect Avenue to Newell Street   35 mph
         from Newell Street to East Donald Street   45 mph
(Ord. #3241, 9/7/82; Ord. #3314, 11/21/83; Ord. #3593, 10/24/88)
      (36)   Independence Avenue -
         from South Barclay Street to Bishop Avenue    30 mph
         from Bishop Ave. to easterly corporate limits    45 mph
(Ord. #3646, 5/8/89)
      (37)   Jefferson Street -
         from LaPorte Road to Westfield Avenue   30 mph
      (38)   Katoski Drive -
         from Greenhill Road to 500 feet west of Black Hawk Road    45 mph
         from 500 feet west of Black Hawk Road to westerly city limits   35 mph
(Ord. #3606, 12/12/88; '91 Rev.)
      (39)   Kimball Avenue -
         from West Fourth Street to Carolina Avenue    30 mph
         from Carolina Avenue to Bourland Avenue   25 mph
            (school zone when lights flashing)
         from Bourland Avenue to Ridgeway Avenue    30 mph
         from Ridgeway Avenue to 1/2 mile south of San Marnan   35 mph
         from 1/2 mile south of San Marnan to a point 500 feet north of
Sidehill Drive   45 mph
         from 500 feet north of Sidehill Drive to a point 20 feet north of
Orange Road    25 mph
            (school zone when lights flashing)
         from 20 feet north of Orange Road to Blaine Road           30 mph
         from Blaine Road to the southerly corporate limits           30 mph
(Ord. No. 5504, 7/8/19)
       (40)   Lafayette Street -
         from easterly city limits to Fairview Avenue   30 mph
      (41)   LaPorte Road -
         from Commercial Street to Washington Street   30 mph
         from Washington Street to 160 feet south of Lackland Drive   35 mph
         from 160 feet south of Lackland Drive to 140 feet south of Shaulis
Road   45 mph
         from 140 feet south of Shaulis Road to the southerly corporate
limits   55 mph
(Ord. #3147, 6/8/81)
      (42)   LaPorte Road Access -
         from Highway 218 to Hess Road   30 mph
('91 Rev.)
      (43)   Leversee Road -
         from the northerly corporate limits to a point 2000 feet north of W.
Airline Highway   45 mph
         from a point 2000 feet north of W. Airline to West Airline
Highway   25 mph
      (44)   Logan Avenue also known as U.S. Hwy. 63 North -
         from Franklin St. to 1,000 feet north of Donald St.   35 mph
         from 1,000 feet north of Donald St. to 1,800 feet north of Donald
St.   45 mph
         from 1,800 feet north of Donald St. to the northerly corporate limits
   55 mph
(Ord. #3436, 6/2/86; Ord. #4453, 1/16/01)
      (45)   Longfellow Avenue -
         from West Parker Street to Walker Street   25 mph
         from Walker Street to Broadway Street   30 mph
   (Ord. #4714, 9/7/04)
      (46)   (46)   Martin Luther King Jr. Drive -
         Eastbound:
         from Franklin Street to 200 feet east of S. Barclay Street   30 mph
         from 200 feet east of S. Barclay Street to 300 feet northeast of
Mobile Street   35 mph
         from 300 feet northeast of Mobile Street to N. Elk Run Road   45 mph
         Westbound:
         from Franklin Street to 200 feet east of S. Barclay Street   30 mph
         from 200 feet east of S. Barclay Street to 300 feet northeast to
Mobile Street   35 mph
         from 300 feet northeast of Mobile Street to N. Elk Run Road   45 mph
(Ord. #4252, 9/8/97; Ord. #4485, 6/11/01; Ord. #4528, 12/3/01; Ord. #5720, 8/
21/2023)
      (47)   Martin Road -
         from West Fourth St. to Sergeant Rd. (Hwy. 63)   30 mph
         from Sergeant Rd. (Hwy. 63) to Ridgeway Ave.   35 mph
(Ord. #3042, 5/18/81)
      (47b)   Maynard Avenue –
         from 266 feet east of Valley Drive to 138 feet west of Valley Drive   
15 mph
(Ord. #5014, 9/27/10)
      (47a)   Memory Lane –
         the entire street   15 mph
(Ord. #4934, 12/15/08)
      (48)   Midport Blvd. -
         from Airport Blvd. to easterly end of street   35 mph
(Ord. #4253, 9/8/97)
      (49)   Mitchell Avenue -
         from West 11th Street to LaPorte Road   30 mph
(Ord. #3241, 9/7/82)
      (50)   Mullan Avenue -
         from Locust Street to Washington Street   25 mph
         from Washington Street to W. Parker Street    35 mph
(Ord. #3717, 6/18/90)
      (51)   Newell Street -
         from the east end of the 1900 block of Newell Street to the easterly
corporate limits   45 mph
         from the easterly end of the 1900 block of Newell Street to E. Mullan
Avenue   30 mph
      (52)   Ninth Street -
         from Washington Street to San Marnan Drive   30 mph
         From Columbus Drive to St. Francis Drive (school zone when lights
flashing   25 mph
(Ord. #5351, 5/23/16)
      (52a)   Northeast Drive -
         From Martin Luther King Jr. Drive to Newell Street      35 mph
(Ord. #5665, 10/17/22)
      (53)   Orange Road -
         from westerly corporate limits to Kimball Ave.   25 mph
         from Kimball Ave. to Hammond Ave.      45 mph
         from Hammond Ave. to easterly corporate limits   35 mph
(Ord. #3241, 9/7/82)
      (54)   Osage Road -
         from easterly city limits to Evans Road   35 mph
         from Evans Road to Dubuque Road   25 mph
('91 Rev.)
      (55)   Park Avenue -
         from Wellington Street to South Street   30 mph
         from South Street to Walnut Street   20 mph
(Ord. #5407, 7/17/17)
      (56)   Park Road -
         from Utica Street to Burton Avenue   30 mph
(Ord. #3241, 9/7/82)
      (57)   Parker Street -
         from East Fourth Street to Cedar Bend   30 mph
      (58)   Rainbow Drive -
         from Maynard Avenue to 850 feet west of Maynard Avenue    30 mph
         from 850 feet west of Maynard Avenue to 1420 feet west of Maynard
Avenue   10 mph
         from 1420 feet west of Maynard Avenue to Forrester Avenue   25 mph
         from Forrest Avenue to westerly corporate limits   35 mph
(Ord. #3853, 4/13/92)
      (59)   Ranchero Road -
         from DeWitt Road to westerly corporate limits   35 mph
      (60)   Riehl Street -
         from Lincoln Street to Burton Avenue   30 mph
      (61)   Ridgeway Avenue -
         from Baltimore Street to Kimball Avenue (school zone when lights
flashing)   25 mph
         from San Marnan Drive to West Fourth St.   35 mph
         from West Fourth St. to westerly corporate limits   45 mph
(Ord. #3099, 8/25/80; Ord. #3137, 4/13/81; '91 Rev.)
      (62)   River Road -
         from Conger Street to 1,200 feet west of W. Commercial Street   45 mph
         from 1,200 feet west of W. Commercial Street to W. Commercial
Street   30 mph
(Ord. #3241, 9/7/82; Ord. #4973, 11/3/09)
      (63)   San Marnan Drive -
         from West Fourth Street to Hammond Avenue   45 mph
         from Hammond Avenue to Texas Street   35 mph
(Ord. #3349, 7/16/84; Ord. #3464, 12/8/86; Ord. #4094, 5/8/95)
      (64)   San Marnan Drive Access -
         from Kimball Avenue to Hammond Avenue    35 mph
(Ord. #3349, 7/16/84)
      (65)   Sergeant Rd. also known as U.S. Hwy. 63 South -
         from the southerly corporate limits to a point 550 feet south of
Ansborough Avenue   55 mph
         from a point 550 feet south of Ansborough Avenue to a point 2,590 feet
north of Fletcher Avenue   50 mph
         from a point 2,590 feet north of Fletcher Avenue to University
Avenue   35 mph
   (Ord. #4453, 1/16/01)
      (66)   Shaulis Road –
            from Highway 21 to Hammond Avenue    45 mph
            from Hammond Avenue to Hess Road    35 mph
            from Hess Road to Highway 218    45 mph
         Shaulis Road(W)-
            From Highway 63 to Hoff Road    35 mph
            from Hoff Road to Kimball Avenue    45 mph
         Shaulis Road(E)-
            From Kimball Avenue to Highway 21    45 mph
(Ord. # 3167, 10/ 26/ 81; Ord. # 3241, 9/ 7/ 82; Ord. # 3787, 5/ 28/ 91; Ord.
#5141, 12/3/12)
      (66)   Shaulis Road -
         from Highway 21 to Hammond Avenue   45 mph
         from Hammond Avenue to Hess Road   35 mph
         from Hess Road to Highway 218   45 mph
(Ord. #3167, 10/26/81; Ord. #3241, 9/7/82; Ord #3787, 5/28/91)
      (67)   Sixth Street -
         from Grant to Washington southbound   35 mph
(Ord. #4002, 1/18/94)
      (68)   Skyview Road -
         from Independence Avenue to Osage Avenue   35 mph
      (69)   Soccer Complex Access -
         from Dewitt Road to the dead end of Soccer Complex Access   20 mph
(Ord. #4435, 9/11/00)
      (70)   Sumner Street -
         from East Fourth Street to Linden Avenue   25 mph
   (Ord. #4333, 12/14/98)
      (71)   Sycamore Street -
         from Thompson Street to East 11th Street   30 mph
         from East 11th Street to Dunham Place   25 mph
      (72)   Texas Street -
         from San Marnan Drive to 4200 feet east of San Marnan Drive   45 mph
         from 4200 feet east of San Marnan Drive to 7300 feet east of San
Marnan Drive   35 mph
         from 7300 feet east of San Marnan Drive to Shaulis Road    45 mph
(Ord. #3593, 10/24/88; '91 Rev.)
      (73)   Third Street -
         from Washington Street to Sergeant Road   30 mph
(Ord. #3241, 9/7/82; Ord. #3292, 7/18/83)
      (74)   University Avenue –
         From the northwesterly side of W. Mullan Avenue to a point 400 feet
west of Belmont Avenue    35 mph
         From a point 400 feet west of Belmont Avenue to Access “B”    45 mph
         From Access “B” to the west corporate limits (Midway Drive)    35 mph
(Ord. #5516, 10/7/19)
      (75)   Vinton Street -
         from Glenwood Street to the east end of the 18th Street Bridge   30
mph
      (76)   Virginia Street -
         from Burton Avenue to Cedar Bend   30 mph
      (77)   Wagner Road -
         from north city limits to Airline Highway   45 mph
         from Airline Highway to Broadway Street   35 mph
         from Broadway Street to West Donald Street   25 mph
      (78)   Washington Street/Highway 218 -
            from Mitchell Avenue to Hawthorne Avenue   45 mph
         Washington Street/Highway 218 (northbound) -
            from Hawthorne Avenue to 8th Street   45 mph
            from 8th Street to Mullan Avenue   55 mph
         West Washington Street/Highway 218 -
            from Mullan Avenue to westerly corporate limits   55 mph
         West Washington (frontage roads) -
            from Fletcher Avenue to Ansborough Avenue   45 mph
         Washington Street (northbound service road) -
            from W. Tenth Street to W. Park Avenue   35 mph
            from W. Park Avenue to W. Second Street   25 mph
            from W. Mullan Avenue to Sergeant Road/Highway 63   35 mph
         Washington Street (southbound service road) -
            from Sergeant Road/Highway 63 to W. Ninth Street   35 mph
         Washington Street/Highway 218 (southbound) -
            from W. Ninth Street to Hawthorne Avenue   45 mph
(Ord. #3782, 5/6/91; Ord. #3838, 12/23/91; Ord. #3902, 11/16/92; Ord. #4007, 3/
14/94)
      (79)   Westfield Avenue -
         from Jefferson Street to Fletcher Avenue   30 mph
         from Fletcher Avenue to West Conger Street   35 mph
(Ord. #3241, 9/7/82; Ord. #3895, 10/26/92)
      (80)   Williston Avenue -
         from Washington Street to West 11th Street   25 mph
         from West 11th Street to West 4th Street   30 mph
(Ord. #4225, 4/7/97)
      (81)   Willow Street -
         Idaho to Mobile   35 mph
(Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
SEC. 541A.    DECREASING SPEED LIMITS IN CERTAIN AREAS.
Decreasing Speed Limits in Certain Areas, of the 2020 Traffic Code, is hereby
added, and Franklin Street is added and enacted as follows:
STREET OR ALLEY      DIRECTION OF TRAFFIC
Franklin Street -
   from E. 7th to E. Mullan   30 mph
   (Ord. #5181, 10/7/13)
San Marnan –
   From W. Fourth Street to Ansborough Avenue   35 mph
(Ord. #5184, 10/21/13)
SEC. 542.   ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.542.   ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
Upon those streets and parts of those streets and in those alleys designated
and signposted for one-way traffic, vehicles, except authorized emergency
vehicles responding to an emergency call, shall be driven only in the direction
designated as named herein:
   STREET OR ALLEY   DIRECTION OF TRAFFIC
   (1)   Fifth Street   Southwest to northeast from Bayard Street to Wellington
Street; northeast to southwest from Walnut Street to Grant Avenue (Ord. #3132,
4/6/81; Ord. #3143, 5/26/81; Ord. #3430, 4/7/86; Ord. #3435, 5/27/86; Ord.
#3992, 12/6/93)
   (2)   First Street   Southwest to the northeast from Washington Street to
Franklin Street (Ord. #3717, 6/18/90)
   (3)   Fourth Street   Northeast to southwest from Grant Avenue to Kimball
Avenue (Ord. #3992, 12/6/93)
   (4)   Johnson Street   East to West from Western Avenue to Baltimore Street.
(Ord. #5763, 6/3/24)
   (5)   Mullan Avenue   Northeast to the southwest from its intersection with
Almond Street and Logan Avenue to Washington Street (Ord. #3717, 6/18/90)
   (6)   Public alley extending from W. 4th to W. 5th and lying between
Randalph St. and Wellington Ct.       Northwest to the southeast so as to enter
from West Fourth Street and depart therefrom on West Fifth Street
   (7)   Public alley extending from Franklin Street to Mulberry Street and
lying between E. 4th and E. 5th   Northeast to the southwest so as to enter
said alley from Franklin Street and depart therefrom on Mulberry Street (Ord.
#3097, 8/11/90; Ord. #3339, 5/7/84)
   (8)   Public alley extending from Jefferson Street to Bluff Street and lying
between W. Fourth Street and W. 5th Street   Northeast to the southwest so as
to enter said alley from Jefferson Street and depart therefrom onto Bluff
Street
   (9)   Public alley extending from Lafayette Street to Mulberry Street and
lying between E. 4th and E. Park Avenue   Northeast to the southwest so as to
enter said alley from Mulberry Street and depart therefrom on Lafayette Street
   (10)   Public alley extending from E. 6th to E. 5th and lying between
Franklin St. and Mulberry St.   Southeast to the northwest between East Sixth
Street and East Fifth Street
   (11)   Public alley extending from Sycamore Street to Water Street and lying
between E. 4th and E. 5th   Northeast to the southwest so as to enter said
alley from Sycamore Street and depart therefrom on Water Street
   (11a)   Public Drive extending from Park Avenue to E. 3rd Street and lying
between Sycamore Street and Parking Lot #8 in back of the bus terminal
   Southeast to northwest so as to enter the public drive from Park Avenue and
depart onto E. 3rd Street (Ord. #5012, 9/20/10)
   (12)   Randolph Street   Northwest to the southeast from West Fourth Street
to West Fifth Street
   (13)   Sixth Street   Southwest to northeast from Wellington Street to South
Barclay Street (Ord. #3395, 6/17/85; Ord. #3992, 12/6/93)
   (15)   Vine Street   East to west from Barclay Street to High Street (Ord.
#4457, 2/12/01)
   (16)   Wellington Court   Northwest to the southeast between West Fourth
Street and West Fifth Street
   (16a)   Western Avenue   South to North from Pleasant Street To Johnson
Street. (Ord. #5764, 6/3/24)
   (17)   Williston Avenue   West to east from Kimball Avenue to Bayard Street
(Ord. #3992, 12/6/93)
*Commercial Street--Amended by Ord. 3273, 4/25/83; repealed by Ord. #3444, 7/7/
86.
*Jefferson Street--Amended by Ord. #3152, 6/15/81; Ord. #3158, 8/24/81; Ord.
#3501, 9/14/87. Repealed by Ord. #3540, 4/4/88.
*Lafayette Street--(Ord. #3363, 8/27/84; Ord. #3373, 10/29/84; repealed by Ord.
#4721, 9/13/04)
*Memorial Court--Repealed by Ord. #3277, 5/16/83.
*Park Avenue--Repealed by Ord. #3379, 12/26/84.
*Public alley extending from West Fourth Street to Bluff Street and lying
between Jefferson Street and Commercial Street--Repealed by Ord. #3394, 6/10/
85.
*Public alley extending from Sycamore Street to Water Street and lying between
E. 4th and E. Park Avenue--Repealed by Ord. #3277, 5/16/83.
*Sycamore Street--(Ord. #3363, 8/27/84; Ord. #3373, 10/29/84; repealed by Ord.
#4721, 9/13/04)
*Westfield Avenue (Repealed by Ord. #3852, 3/23/92)
SEC. 543.   THRU STREETS.543.   THRU STREETS.
The following streets and parts of streets shall be known as stop streets, thru
streets or boulevards (This entire section changed by Ord. #3526, 2/22/88):
STREET      PORTION OF STREET DESIGNATED AS THRU STREET
      (1)   Adams Street      From Mobile Street to Peek Street (2000 Rev.)
      (2)   Airline Highway   From the east corporate limits to the west
corporate limits, except for a traffic signal at Logan Avenue and a four-way
stop at Airport Boulevard (Ord. #3837, 12/2/91)
      (3)   Alexandra Drive   From Flammang Drive to Southtown Drive (Ord.
#4166, 5/13/96)
      (4)   Allen Street      East side of West Fifth Street to the west side
of West Seventh Street (Ord. #4106, 7/10/95)
      (6)   Ansborough Ave   South corporate limits to Rainbow Drive, except
for All-Way Stop Intersection at Shaulis Road; except for signals at San Marnan
Drive, Ridgeway Avenue, West Fourth Street, Martin Road, Sergeant Road; Home
Park Boulevard, Black Hawk Road, Downing Avenue, University Avenue, Falls
Avenue, Stratford Avenue, Maynard Avenue, and Highway 218 ramps (Ord. #3241, 9/
7/82; Ord. #4201, 10/21/96; 2000 Rev.; Ord. 5422, 10/16/17)
      (5)   Almond Street      East Fourth Street to East Mullan Avenue except
for stop at Iowa (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
      (7)   Argyle Street      East Fourth Street to East Mullan Avenue except
for stop at Iowa
      (8)   Ashland Avenue   Kern Street to Riehl Street except for stop at
Dawson Street (Ord. #4391, 11/1/99)
      (9)   Auburn Street      From Maynard Avenue to Joy Drive (Ord. #4166, 5/
13/96)
      (10)   Audubon Drive   From north side of Dakota Drive to southeast side
of Harbin Drive (Ord. #4128, 9/18/95)
      (11)   Baltimore Street   Cataract Avenue to West Fifth Street, except
for traffic signals at Mitchell Avenue and Williston Avenue and a four-way stop
at Ridgeway (Ord. #3415, 11/18/85)
      (12)   Barclay St. (N)   South side of Shilliam Avenue to south side of
Sumner; north side of Sumner to south side of Newell; north side of Newell to
north side of Warren Drive
      (13)   Beech Street      From the south side of Newell Street to the
south side of Oneida except for a two-way stop at Sumner (Ord. #3337, 4/23/84)
      (14)   Bethel Street      From Kaplan Drive to Oleson Road (Ord. #4166,
5/13/96)
      (15)   Big Rock Road   Easterly corporate limits to Municipal Airport
property line, except a stop for Logan Avenue and Burton Avenue
      (16)   Bishop Avenue   Osage Road to Independence Avenue (Ord. #3114, 11/
24/80)
      (17)   Bismark Street   Fletcher Avenue to Ansborough Avenue except for
four-way stop at Magnolia (Ord. $4162, 4/8/96; 2000 Rev.)
      (18)   Black Hawk Road   Fletcher Avenue to Katoski Drive, except for
signals at Ansborough Avenue (2000 Rev.)
      (19)   Black Hawk St.   West 11th Street to West 18th Street
      (20)   Bratnober      Broadway to Lincoln
      (21)   Broadway Street   Utica Street to Airline Boulevard except for
traffic signals at Park Road, Conger Street, West Parker Street, Burton Avenue,
Donald Street, Cedar Bend, Wagner Road, and Ramp A (from Highway 218) (Ord.
#3277, 5/16/83; Ord. #4188, 8/26/96)
      (22)   Brookeridge Dr.   Kimball Avenue to Peoples Square (Ord. #3247,
11/15/82)
      (23)   Burton Avenue   except for a four-way stop at Conger, signals at
West Parker and Broadway, four-way stop at Donald and two-way stop at Airline
Highway (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83, Ord. #5119, 5/29/12)
      (24)   Butler Avenue      East side of Linden to west side of State (Ord.
#4111, 7/17/95)
      (25)   Cadillac Drive      From Woodcrest Drive to Lambeth Road, except
for stop at Lambeth Road (Ord. #3598, 11/7/88; Ord. #4536, 1/28/02; Ord. #4890,
11/13/07)
      (26)   Calhoun Street   From the east side of Bishop Avenue to the west
side of Milwaukee Avenue (Ord. #4128, 9/18/95)
      (27)   Campbell Avenue   West Fourth Street to Orange Grove Avenue except
for traffic signals at Fletcher Avenue and Campbell Avenue
      (28)   Candlewick Road   From Greenbrier Road to Cherry Hills Drive (Ord.
#4166, 5/13/96)
      (29)   Carolina Avenue   Vermont Street to Kimball Avenue
      (30)   Cedar Bend St.   West Parker Street to Broadway Street
      (31)   Cedar Terrace Dr.   LaPorte Road to Foulk Road, except for a two-
way stop at East Shaulis Road
      (32)   Center Street      Logan Avenue to Fairview Avenue, except for a
two-way stop at Broadway Street
      (33)   Clough Street      Campbell Avenue to Home Park Blvd. (Ord. #3788,
5/28/91)
      (34)   Commercial St.   LaPorte Road to Westfield Ave. except for traffic
signals at West 18th St., West 11th St., West Sixth St., West Fifth St., West
Fourth St., West Park Ave., West First St. and West Mullan Ave. (Ord. #3450, 9/
22/86)
      (34a)   Commercial St. (W)   From West Mullan Avenue to Westfield Avenue
(Ord. $4967, 10/12/09)
      (35)   Conger Street      Logan Avenue to Rainbow Drive except for
traffic signals at Broadway Street and four-way stop at Burton Avenue
      (36)   Cornwall Avenue   Wisconsin Street to LaPorte Road (Ord. #3404,
10/7/85)
      (37)   Crossroads Blvd.   Except for all-way stops at Bopp Street,
Flammang Drive, and Penneys Street (Ord. #4578, 9/23/02; Ord. #4764, 3/28/05;
Ord. #4926, 10/6/08)
      (38)   Cutler Street      From Parker Street to Dawson Street (Ord.
#4166, 5/13/96)
      (39)   Dale Street      East Fourth St. to westerly end of said street
except for a two-way stop at Highway 63
      (40)   Dane Street      East Fourth Street to Logan Avenue
      (41)   Denver Street      From Williston Avenue to Forest Avenue (Ord.
#4406, 2/21/00)
      (41a)   Derbyshire Road   From Belleview Road to Prospect Circle (Ord.
#4929, 11/17/08)
      (42)   Devonshire Drive   Ansborough Avenue to Delane Avenue
      (43)   Dewitt Road      From Ridgeway Avenue to the dead end of Dewitt
Road (Ord. #4435, 9/11/00)
      (44)   Donald Street      East corporate limits to east side of Cedar
Bend except for signals at Logan Avenue and Broadway and four-way stop at
Burton Avenue (Ord. #3241, 9/7/82; Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
      (45)   Downing Avenue   Black Hawk Road to Katoski Drive except for
traffic signal at Ansborough Avenue (Ord. #4201, 10/21/96; 2000 Rev.)
      (46)   Dubuque Road   Nevada to easterly corporate limits except for
signals at Nevada and Idaho (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
      (47)   Easton Avenue   LaPorte Road to Kimball Avenue except for a two-
way stop at West 11th Street, Hammond Avenue, West Ninth Street and Baltimore
Street
      (48)   Edwards Street   Logan Avenue to Broadway
      (49)   Eighteenth St.(W)   West end of 18th Street Bridge to Williston
Avenue except for traffic signals at Commercial Street
      (50)   Eighth St. (W)   Washington Street to Byron Avenue, except for
stop at South Street (Ord. #4106, 7/10/95)
      (51)   Eleventh St. (E)   Lafayette Street to Franklin Street
      (52)   Eleventh St. (W)   Black Hawk Street to East Ridgeway Avenue
except for traffic signals at Commercial Street, Jefferson Street, and
Washington Street and four-way stops at East Mitchell Avenue and Williston
Avenue (2000 Rev.)
      (53)   Englewood Avenue   Falls Avenue to Rock Island Avenue (Ord. #4138,
11/20/95)
      (54)   Falls Avenue   Black Hawk Road to University Avenue except for
traffic signalsat Fletcher Avenue, Ansborough Avenue and Stephan Street (Ord.
#4162, 4/8/96; Ord. #4196, 9/23/96; 2000 Rev.)
      (55)   Fifth Street (E)   Cedar River to Walnut Street except for signals
at Sycamore Street, Lafayette Street, Mulberry Street, and Franklin Street
(Ord. #4297, 5/18/98)
      (56)   Fifth Street (W)   Cedar River to Williston Avenue except for
signals at northbound Washington Street, southbound Washington Street, Locust
Street, and Bayard Street (Ord. #4309, 6/22/98)
      (57)   First Street (E)    Cedar River to Franklin Street except for
signals at Lafayette Street and Franklin Street; and except Stop signs at
Mulberry Street and Sycamore Street. (Ord. #5441, 2/19/18)
      (58)   First Street (W)   Cedar River to Locust Street except for signals
at Jefferson Street and at Commercial Street (Ord. #4309, 6/22/98)
      (59)   Flammang Drive   Hammond Avenue to Crossroads Blvd. except for
signal at San Marnan Drive and Sarah Drive (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; 2000 Rev.)
      (60)   Fletcher Avenue   West Fourth Street to Westfield Avenue except
traffic signals at Campbell Avenue, Sergeant Road, University Avenue, Falls
Avenue, and four-way stop at West Third Street (2000 Rev.)
      (61)   Foulk Road      East Shaulis Road to southerly corporate limits
      (62)   Fourth Street (E)   Cedar River to Donald Street except for
signals at Sycamore Street, Lafayette Street, Mulberry Street, Franklin Street,
and Walnut Street and a four-way stop at Newell Street (Ord. #4309, 6/22/98)
      (63)   Fourth Street (W)   Cedar River to Shaulis Road except for signals
at Commercial Street, Jefferson Street, northbound Washington Street,
southbound Washington Street, Grant Street, Locust Street, Bayard Street,
Kimball Avenue, Ansborough Avenue, and Ridgeway Avenue, and school signals at
Wellington Street and at Hubbard Avenue (Ord. #3277, 5/16/82; Ord. #3351, 7/16/
84; Ord. #4309, 6/22/98)
      (64)   Franklin Street   Nevada Street to Utica Street except for traffic
signals at Vinton Street, East 11th St., East Sixth St., East Fifth St., East
Fourth St., East Park Ave., East First St. and East Mullan Avenue (Ord. #3450,
9/22/86; Ord. #3480, 4/6/87)
      (65)   Glenwood Street   South Barclay Street to Steely Street
      (66)   Grand and Four Seasons
      (67)   Greenhill Road   Greenwood Avenue to west corporate limits except
for signals at Highway 218 ramps, Maynard Avenue, and Katoski Drive ('91 Rev.;
2000 Rev.)
      (67a)   Greyhound Drive   From Ridgeway Avenue to Sergeant Road (Highway
63) (Ord. #4931, 11/17/08)
      (68)   Hackett Road (N)   At Grand Boulevard
      (69)   Hackett Road (S)   Rainbow Drive to Downing Avenue, except for
stop signs at Greenhill Road and at entrance to John Deere Health Care Clinic
(Ord. #4046, 10/10/94)
      (70)   Hallowell Road   Independence Avenue to the northerly end of
Hallowell Road (Ord. #3099, 8/25/80)
      (71)   Hammond Avenue   South corporate limits to South Street, except
for two-way stops at Orange Road, traffic signals at San Marnan Drive, and
four-way stops at Ridgeway Avenue, Mitchell Avenue, Williston Avenue, and
Shaulis Road (Ord. #3167, 10/26/81; Ord. #5654, 7/18/22)
      (72)   Hanna Blvd.      From Falls Avenue to Joy Drive except for four-
way stops at Upton Avenue and Maynard Avenue (Ord. #4166, 5/13/96; Ord. #4338,
1/4/99)
      (73)   Hawkeye Road   San Marnan Drive to southerly corporate limits
      (74)   Hess Road      Grimm Street to Shaulis Road (Ord. #3364, 9/4/84)
      (75)   Highland Blvd.   North side of Independence Avenue to south side
of Vine Street
      (76)   Hilltop Road      Hillcrest Road to Rose Hill Terrace except for a
stop at South Hills Drive and Prospect Boulevard
      (77)   Hoff Road      From W. 4th Street to Shaulis Road (Ord. #4449, 12/
4/00)
      (78)   Huntington Road   Scott to westerly corporate limits (Ord. #3277,
5/16/83)
      (79)   Idaho Street      East Donald Street to Dubuque Road except a
four-way stop at Newell Street, and signals at Independence Avenue and Monroe
Street (Ord. #3236, 8/9/82)
      (80)   Independence Ave.   South Barclay Street to east corporate limits
except for a signal at Idaho
      (81)   Iowa Street      Walnut Street to Dane Street
      (82)   Irving Street      Independence to Franklin (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
      (83)   Janney Avenue   East side of Magnolia to west side of Englewood
(Ord. #4111, 7/17/95)
      (84) Jackson Street   From Merriman Street to Oneida Street except for a
stop at Shilliam Avenue (Ord. #4398, 11/22/99)
      (85)   Jefferson Street   LaPorte Road to Westfield Avenue except for
traffic signals at West 11th Street, West Sixth Street, West Fifth Street, West
Fourth Street, West Park Avenue, West First Street and West Mullan Avenue and a
two-way stop at West 18th Street (Ord. #3450, 9/22/86; Ord. #4545, 3/25/02)
      (85a)   Jefferson St. (W)   From West Mullan Avenue to West Commercial
Street (Ord. #4967, 10/12/09)
      (86)   Katoski Drive      Greenhill Road to westerly city limits except
for signal at Downing Avenue ('91 Rev.)
      (87) Kern Street      From Avon Avenue to Grandview Avenue (Ord. #4543,
3/25/02)
      (88)   Kimball Avenue   Reber Street to south corporate limits except for
traffic signals at West Fourth Street, Ridgeway Avenue, Park Lane, Rachael
Street, Brookeridge Drive, and San Marnan Drive and four-way stops at West
Third Street and Mitchell Avenue (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; Ord. #3477, 3/16/87; '91
Rev.; 2000 Rev.; Ord. #4483, 6/4/01)
      (89)   Lafayette Street   Easterly corporate limits to Fairview Avenue
except for traffic signals at Linden Avenue, Vinton Street, East Eleventh
Street, East Sixth Street, East Fifth Street, East Fourth Street, East Park
Avenue, East First Street and East Mullan Avenue (Ord. #3450, 9/22/86)
      (90)   Lane Street      Sycamore Street to Vine Street except for two-way
stops at Lafayette St., Mulberry Street, Franklin Street, Fowler Street,
Independence Avenue and Glenwood Street
      (91)   LaPorte Road      Commercial Street to southerly corporate limits,
except for traffic signals at Mitchell Avenue, San Marnan Drive, and a one-way
stop at Washington Street (Ord. #3403, 10/7/85)
      (92)   Leland Avenue   West Mullan Avenue to Oaklawn Avenue, except for
stop at Sunnyside Street (Ord. #3759, 12/26/90; Ord. #4106, 7/10/95)
      (93)   Leonard      Oakland to Parker (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
      (93A)   Leversee road
         (east side)      Northerly corporate limits to w. airline hwy. (ord.
#5605, 6/21/21)
      (94)   Lime Street      From E. 4th Street to east end of Lime Street
(Ord. #4431, 8/21/00)
      (95)   Linden Avenue   The northerly side of Glenwood Street to the
northerly side of Webster Street except a stop at what is known as Chicago
Great Western Railroad Tracks; Lafayette Street to the dead end of street north
of Fowler Street (Ord. #4166, 5/13/96; Ord. #4212, 12/2/96)
      (96)   Linn Street      From Oliver to Lester (Ord. #4579, 9/23/02)
      (97)   Locust Street      West Sixth Street to West Mullan Avenue except
for traffic signal at West Fourth and two-way stops at West Third and West
Fifth (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; Ord. #3715, 6/11/90; Ord. #3728, 7/16/90)
      (98)   Logan Avenue      East Mullan Avenue to Kern Street and West
Parker St. to north corporate limits except for traffic signals at West Parker
St., West Donald St. and Airline Highway and a two-way stop at Conger Street
      (99)   Logan Avenue
         Access Road      From Donald Street to north end of Access road except
for stop signs at entrance to Logan Plaza off of Logan Avenue (Ord. #4274, 1/
20/98)
      (100)   Longfellow Ave.   Kern to Fairchild except for a stop at Parker
and signals at Broadway (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
      (101)   Louise Street      From Sherman Avenue to Logan Avenue (Ord.
#4187, 8/19/96)
      (102) Lowe’s Blvd.      From E. San Marnan Drive to E. Tower Park Drive
(Ord. #4596, 2/17/03)
      (103)   Martin Luther
         King Jr. Drive      From Franklin Street to North Elk Run Road except
for signals at S. Barclay Street, Linden, Northeast Drive, and Idaho Street
(Ord. #4252, 9/8/97; Ord. #4485, 6/11/01)
      (104)   Martin Road      West Fourth Street to Sergeant Rd. except for a
four-way stop at Ansborough Avenue
      (105)   Maxwell Street   From Bismark Avenue to Shady Lane (Ord. #4569,
8/18/02)
      (106)   Maynard Avenue   Ansborough Avenue to Hackett Road except for a
four-way stop at Hanna and signals at Greenhill Road ('95 Rev.; Ord. #4227, 4/
14/97)
      (107)   Midport Blvd.      From Airport Blvd. to easterly end of street
(Ord. #4253, 9/8/97)
      (108)   Minnesota Street   Forest Avenue to Byron Avenue; Howard Avenue
to Ridgeway Avenue (Ord. #4128, 9/18/95; Ord. #4234, 6/9/97)
      (109)   Mitchell Ave.(E)   Kimball Avenue to Lowell Avenue except for
traffic signals at Baltimore Street, LaPorte Road and I-380 and four-way stops
at West Ninth Street, Hammond Avenue and West 11th Street
      (110)   Mitchell Ave.(W)   Kimball Avenue to Bellview Road
      (111)   Mobile Street      Martin Luther King Jr. Drive to south side of
Sumner Street (Ord. #4252, 9/8/97)
      (112)   Moir Street      West 2nd Street to West 3rd Street except for
stop at Reber Avenue (Ord. #4391, 11/1/99)
      (113)   Mulberry Street   Nevada Street to Utica Street except for
traffic signals at Vinton Street, East 6th Street, East 5th Street, East 4th
Street, Park Avenue, and East 1st Street and stop signs at Linden Avenue, Rhey
Street, and Mullan Avenue (Ord. #3450, 9/22/86; Ord. #4212, 12/2/96)
      (114)   Mullan Ave. (E)   East end of Mullan Avenue Bridge to Parker
Street except for traffic signals at Franklin Street, Almond Street, Logan
Avenue, Dane Street and Newell Street
      (115)   Mullan Ave. (W)   West end of Mullan Avenue Bridge to Locust
Street except for traffic signals at Commercial Street, Jefferson Street and
University Avenue
      (116)   Nevada Street      Independence Avenue to Lafayette Street except
for traffic signal at Franklin and Nevada Streets
      (117)   Newell Street      East Mullan Avenue to east corporate limits
except for four-way stops at East Fourth Street and at Idaho Street
      (118)   Ninth Street (W)   Washington Street to San Marnan Drive except
for traffic signals at Williston Avenue and East Ridgeway Avenue and a four-way
stop at East Mitchell Avenue
      (119)   Northey Street      Cedar Bend Street to Longfellow Avenue
      (120)   Oakland      Conger to Kern (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
      (121)   Oaklawn Avenue   University Avenue to West Mullan Avenue
      (122) Oak Ridge Road   From Trible Road to east corporate limits except
for a stop at Belle Street (Ord. #4398, 11/22/99)
      (123)   Oliver Street      From west side of Manson to east side of East
Fourth Street (Ord. #4127, 9/11/95)
      (124)   Olympic Drive   From Pheasant Lane to Ansborough Avenue (Ord.
#3498, 9/14/87; Ord. #4257, 9/15/97)
      (125)   Osage Avenue      Dubuque Road to east corporate limits
      (126)   Park Avenue (E)   Walnut Street to Water Street except for
traffic signals at Franklin Street, Mulberry Street, Lafayette Street and
Sycamore Street
      (127)   Park Avenue (W)   West end of Park Avenue Bridge to Wellington
Street except for traffic signals at Cedar Street, Commercial St., Jefferson
St. and Washington Street
      (128)   Park Lane      West Ninth Street to Kimball Avenue; Kimball
Avenue to Hillcrest Road
      (129)   Park Road      Utica Street to Burton Avenue except for a traffic
signal at Broadway Street
      (130)   Parker Street (E)   East Fourth Street to Logan Avenue
      (131)   Parker Street (W)   Logan Avenue to Cedar Bend Street except for
traffic signals at Broadway St. and Burton Ave.
      (132)   Penneys      West end of Street to Crossroads Blvd. except for
signal at San Marnan Drive
      (133)   Pheasant Lane      From Brookeridge Drive to San Marnan Drive
(Ord. #4257, 9/15/97)
      (134)   Pleasant Street      From Baltimore Street to W. 6th Street (Ord.
#4166, 5/13/96)
      (134a)   Pinnacle Place      West Fourth Street to Turnberry Drive (Ord.
5328, 1/11/16)
      (135)   Progress Avenue   University Avenue to Acorn Lane
      (136)   Prospect Blvd.   South side of Ridgeway Avenue to south side of
Margaret Street
      (137)   Rachael Street      Kimball Avenue to Pheasant Lane (Ord. #3247,
11/15/82)
      (138)   Rainbow Drive   Maynard Avenue to the westerly corporate limits
except for a signal at Greenhill Road (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; 2000 Rev.)
      (139)   Rhey Street      Lafayette Street to Courtland Street (Ord.
#4166, 5/13/96; Ord. #4212, 12/2/96)
      (140)   Ridgeway Ave.(E)   Kimball Avenue to East San Marnan except for
traffic signals at West Ninth Street and four-way stop at Hammond Avenue and at
Baltimore Street
      (141)   Ridgeway Ave.(W)   Kimball Avenue to west corporate limits except
for a four-way stop at Prospect Blvd. and signals at Ansborough Avenue, West
Fourth Street, Sergeant Road, and Deere Road (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; 2000 Rev.)
      (142)   Riehl Street      Lincoln Street to Burton Avenue except a two-
way stop at Broadway Street
      (143)   Russell Road      Dixon Drive to Meadow Lane
      (144)   St. Francis Dr.   Easterly side of West Ninth Street to southerly
end of said street
      (145)   San Marnan Access   Penney's to Kimball except for stops at
Flammang and Hammond (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
      (146)   San Marnan Dr.   Texas Street to West Fourth Street except for
traffic signals at northbound ramp, southbound ramp, LaPorte Road, Sears,
Penney's, Flammang, Hammond, Highway 21, Kimball Avenue, and Ansborough Avenue
(Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; Ord. #3351, 7/16/84; Ord. #4121, 8/14/95; 2000 Rev.)
      (147)   Saratoga Drive   From Rudi Place to Alpine Drive (Ord. #4643, 9/
2/03)
      (148)   Saxson Street      Iowa Street to East Mullan Avenue
      (149)   Sears Street      Camelot to Crossroads Blvd. except for signal
at San Marnan Drive
      (150)   Second St. (W)   From southwesterly side of Washington Street to
the west side of Sullivan Avenue, except for stops at Locust Street and South
Street (Ord. #4106, 7/10/95)
      (151)   Sergeant Road      University Avenue to southerly corporate
limits except for traffic signals at Fletcher Avenue, Ansborough Avenue, West
Ridgeway Avenue, and Highway 20 ramps (2000 Rev.)
      (152)   Seventh St. (W)   Washington Street to Easton Avenue, except for
stop at South Street (Ord. #4106, 7/10/95)
      (153)   Shaulis Road      Highway 21 to Highway 218 (Ord. #3167, 10/26/
81; Ord. #4267, 11/17/97; Ord. #4378, 8/23/99)
      (154)   Sheridan Road      West Fourth Street to Ridgeway Avenue, except
for a 4-way stop at Berkshire Road (Ord. #4096, 5/15/95)
      (155)   Sherman      Arlington to Esther (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
      (156) Shoppers Blvd.   From E. San Marnan Drive to E. Tower Park Drive
(Ord. #4596, 2/17/03)
      (157) Sixth Street   Mitchell Avenue to Williston Avenue; Grant Street to
Walnut Street except for signals at southbound Washington Street, northbound
Washington Street, Jefferson Street, Commercial Street, Sycamore Street,
Lafayette Street, Mulberry Street, and Franklin Street (Ord. #3395, 6/17/85;
Ord. #3450, 9/22/86; Ord. #4309, 6/22/98)
      (158)   South Street      East side of West First Street to west side of
West Fourth Street; east side of West Sixth Street to west side of West Ninth
Street (Ord. #3971, 9/13/93; Ord. #4106, 7/10/95; Ord. #4793, 11/21/05)
      (159)   South Hills Dr.   West Ridgeway Avenue to Olympic Drive
      (160)   Southtown Drive   From Hammond Avenue to east end of street (Ord.
#4166, 5/13/96)
      (161)   Stephan Street      Falls Avenue to Stratford Avenue
      (162)   Sullivan      North side of West Third Street to south side of
West Second Street
      (163)   Sumner Street      East Fourth Street to Linden Avenue
      (164)   Sunnyside Street   From Leland Avenue to West Mullan Avenue (Ord.
#4219, 1/27/97)
      (165)   Sunset Road      Prospect Boulevard to Sheridan Road
      (166)   Sycamore Street   East 11th to Thompson except for traffic
signals at East 11th Street, East Sixth Street, East Fifth Street, East Fourth
Street, East Park Avenue and East First Street and stop at Mullan (Ord. #3277,
5/16/83; Ord. #3450, 9/22/86)
      (167)   Texas         San Marnan Drive to southerly end of street except
for stop at Shaulis
      (168)   Third St. (W)      Dead end of Third Street adjacent to
Washington Park to Sergeant Road except for four-way stops at Kimball and
Fletcher (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; Ord. #3728, 7/16/90; Ord. #4106, 7/10/95; '95
Rev.; Ord. #4545, 3/25/02)
      (169)   University Ave.   West Mullan Avenue to westerly corporate limits
except for traffic signals at Sergeant Road, Fletcher Avenue, Wallgate Avenue,
Ansborough Avenue, Sager Avenue, Falls Avenue, Holiday Access Road, K-Mart
Access Road, Progress Avenue and Midway Drive (2000 Rev.)
      (170)   Unnamed Street   From Kimball Avenue to Kimball Access Road near
Walgreen’s (Ord. #4836, 9/18/06)
      (171)   Upland Avenue   Ansborough Avenue to Muncy Avenue
      (171a)   Vaughn Street      At T-intersection with Beck Street (Ord.
#5243, 10/13/14)
      (172)   Vermont Street   Williston Avenue to East Mitchell Avenue
      (173)   Vine Street      From South Barclay Street to east end of Vine
Street (Ord. #4431, 8/21/00)
      (174)   Vinton Street      Glenwood Street to Rath Street except for
traffic signals at Franklin Street and Lafayette Street and a two-way stop at
Independence Avenue (Ord. #3660, 6/13/88)
      (175)   Virginia St.      Cedar Bend Street to Burton Avenue except for
two-way stop at Longfellow
      (176)   Wagner Road      Broadway Street to northerly city limits except
for a two-way stop at Airline Highway (Ord. #3097, 8/11/80; Ord. #3137, 4/13/
81; Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; 2000 Rev.)
       (177)   Walnut Street      Clay Street to South Barclay Street except
for traffic signals at East Park Avenue, East Fourth Street, Martin Luther King
Jr. Drive northbound, Martin Luther King Jr. Drive southbound, except 4-way
stop at east Third Street. (Ord. #5436, 2/5/18)
      (178)   Washington St.   LaPorte Road to W. Mullan Avenue except for
traffic signals at Williston Avenue, West 11th St., West Ninth St., West Fifth
St., West Fourth St., West Park Avenue, West Third St. and West First St.
      (179)   Webster Street      From Wendell Court to East 4th Street (Ord.
#4187, 8/19/96)
      (180)   Wellington St.      West Third Street to West Fourth Street (Ord.
#3351, 7/16/84)
      (181)   Western Avenue   West Mullan to West Second and Williston to
Byron (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
      (182)   Westfield Avenue   From W. Jefferson to West Conger Street except
for traffic signals at Vaughn Street and Fletcher Avenue and a four-way stop at
the intersection of W. Commercial Street and Sergeant Road (Ord. #4967, 10/12/
09)
      (183)   Wildwood Road   Hammond Avenue to West 9th Street (Ord. #4138,
11/20/95)
      (184)   Williston Avenue   Washington Street to W. 4th Street except for
school signal at Oregon, traffic signals at W. 9th Street, W. 6th Street, and
Baltimore Street and four-way stops at W. 11th Street and Hammond Avenue (Ord.
#4257, 9/15/97; 2000 Rev.)
      (185)   Wisconsin St.      North side of East Ridgeway Avenue to south
side of Washington St. except for Easton Avenue and West Mitchell Avenue
*Barclay St. (S) (Repealed by Ord. #4431, 8/21/00)
*Cleveland Street (Deleted by 2000 Rev.)
      (177)   Walnut Street      Clay Street to South Barclay Street except for
traffic signals at East Park Avenue, East Fourth Street, Martin Luther King Jr.
Drive northbound, and Martin Luther King Jr. Drive southbound (2000 Rev.,
deleted by Ord. #5436, 2/5/18)
*(57) First Street (E)   Cedar River to Franklin Street except for signals at
Sycamore Street, Lafayette Street, Mulberry Street, and Franklin Street (Ord.
#4309, 6/22/98) (deleted by Ord. #5441, 2/19/18).
*(6)   Ansborough Ave.   South corporate limits to Rainbow Drive, except for
signals at San Marnan Drive, Ridgeway Avenue, West Fourth Street, Martin Road,
Sergeant Road, Home Park Blvd., Black Hawk Road, Downing Avenue, University
Avenue, Falls Avenue, Statford Avenue, Maynard Avenue, and Highway 218 ramps
(Ord. #3241, 9/7/82; Ord. #4201, 10/21/96; 2000 Rev.)(deleted by Ord. #5422,
10/16/17)
SEC. 544.   ALL-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.544.   ALL-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.
The following intersections or parts of intersections shall be known as "stop
intersections" or "four-way stop intersections" and every driver of a vehicle
shall stop in accordance with the provisions of Section 221 of this ordinance:
      (1)   Airline Highway and Airport Boulevard (Ord. #3837, 12/2/91)
      (2)   Alta Vista and Arizona Street
      (3)     Arlington and Hope (Ord. #4378, 8/23/99)
      (4)   Arlington and Sherman
      (5)   Baltimore Street and Ridgeway Avenue
      (6)   Barclay Street (S) and Vine Street (Ord. #4431, 8/21/00)
      (7)   Berkshire Road and Sheridan Road (Ord. #4096, 5/15/95)
      (8)   Bertch Avenue and Western Avenue
      (9)   Bopp St. and Crossroads Blvd. (Ord. #4764, 3/28/05)
      (10)   Burton Avenue and Conger Street
      (11)   Burton Avenue and West Donald (repealed by Ord. #3241, 9/7/82; re-
enacted by Ord. #3248, 11/15/82)
      (12)   Colby Road and Rachael Street
      (13)   Cottage and Linn Street (Ord. #4066, 1/3/95)
      (14)   Courtland and Elm Street (Ord. #4020, 6/13/94)
      (15)   Courtland and Mobile Street (Ord. #4020, 6/13/94)
      (16)   Crossroads Blvd. and Flammang Drive (Ord. #4578, 9/23/02)
      (16a)   Crossroads Blvd. and Penneys Street (Ord. #4926, 10/6/08)
      (17)   Eleventh Street (West) and East Mitchell Avenue
      (18)   Elm Street and Fowler Street (Ord. #4020, 6/13/94)
      (19)   Fletcher Avenue and West Third Street
      (20)   Fowler Street and Mobile Street (Ord. #4020, 6/13/94)
      (21)   Greenbrier Road and Oakwood Drive
      (22)   Hammond Avenue and East Mitchell Avenue
      (23)   Hammond Avenue and East Ridgeway Avenue
      (23a)   Hammond Avenue and Shaulis Road (Ord. #5655, 7/-/22)
      (24)   Hammond Avenue and Williston Avenue
      (25)   Hanna and Maynard (Ord. #4227, 4/14/97)
      (26)   Hanna and Upton
      (27)   High and Vine
      (28)   Hoff Road and Shaulis Road ('95 Rev.)
      (29)   Kimball Avenue and Mitchell Avenue
      (30)   Kimball Avenue and West Third Street
      (31)   Leland Avenue and Sunnyside Street (Ord. #4219, 1/27/97)
      (32)   Mitchell Avenue (East) and West Ninth Street
      (33)   Newell Street and East Fourth Street
      (34)   Newell Street and Idaho Street
      (35)   Prospect Boulevard and West Ridgeway Avenue
      (36)   Shaulis Road and Ansborough Avenue (Ord. #5423, 10/23/17)
      (37)   Walnut Street from Clay Street to E. 3rd Street (Ord. #5437, 2/5/
18)
*Ansborough Avenue and West Fourth Street repealed by Ord. #3759, 12/26/90.
*Ansborough Avenue and Martin Road repealed by Ord. #3759, 12/26/90.
*Ansborough Avenue and West Ridgeway Avenue repealed by Ord. #3759, 12/26/90.
*Cataract Avenue and Saratoga Drive (Ord. #4625, 7/14/03; repealed by Ord.
#4643, 9/2/03)
*Downing Avenue and Hackett Road (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; deleted by '91 Rev.)
*Eleventh Street (West) and Williston Avenue (2000 Rev.; repealed by Ord.
#4574, 9/9/02)
*Fourth Street (West) and West Ridgeway Avenue repealed by Ord. #3759, 12/26/
90.
*Hess Road and Shaulis Road (Ord. #4267, 11/17/97; Repealed by Ord. #4378, 8/
23/99)
*Idaho Street and Monroe Street (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; deleted by '91 Rev.)
*Kimball Avenue and Park Lane (Ord. #3477, 3/16/87; repealed by Ord. #3759, 12/
26/90)
*Locust and West Second Street repealed by Ord. #3715, 6/11/90.
*Lynkaylee and Rachael repealed by Ord. #3114, 11/24/80.
*Meadow Lane and Russell Road -Amended by Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; repealed by Ord.
#3332, 4/2/84.
SEC. 545.   YIELD STREETS.545.   YIELD STREETS.
The following streets and portions of streets when properly signposted shall be
known as yield streets:
   STREET      PORTION OF STREET DESIGNATED AS A YIELD STREET
    (1)   Bankers Blvd.      Bankers Blvd. at Fisher Drive. (Ord. #5530, 11/25/
19)
   (1a)   Bayard Street      Willison Avenue to Byron Avenue. (Ord. #5530, 11/
25/19)
   (2)   Bourland Avenue   LaPorte Road to Wisconsin Street
   (3)   Bryant Avenue   Lindale Avenue to Oakland Avenue (Ord. #4518, 10/15/
01)
   (3a)   Burton Avenue   At Park Road
   (4)   Byron Avenue      Vermont Street to Kimball Avenue
   (5)   Cataract Avenue   Saratoga Drive to the westerly end of Cataract
Avenue (repealed by Ord. #4625, 7/14/03)
   (6)   City View Street   Newell to Nicholas
   (7)   Colorado Street   Lafayette Street to Independence Avenue
   (8)   Cornwall Avenue   From W. 11th Street to Oregon Street (Ord. #4517,
10/15/01)
   (8a)   Crabapple Lane   At Falcon Ridge (Ord. #5466, 9/4/18)
   (9)   Cutler Street      At Dawson Street (Ord. #4880, 9/4/07)
   (10)   Dawson Street      At Reed Street; from Boradway Street to Grandview
Avenue (Ord. #4451, 12/11/00; Ord. #4880, 9/4/07)
   (11)   Esther Street      At Boston Avenue (Ord. #4488, 7/2/01)
   (12)    Fairview Avenue   Park Road to Conger Street (Ord. #4378, 8/23/99)
   (13)   Fourth Street (E)   Keystone Street to Lakeside Street (Ord. #4816,
6/5/06)
   (14)   Hillcrest Road      West Ridgeway Avenue through Hilltop Road;
Hillcrest Road to Park Lane (Ord. #4564, 7/8/02; Ord. #5236, 9/8/14)
   (14a)   Hummingbird Circle         The entire circle (Ord. #5018, 10/18/10)
   (15)   Huntington Road   Black Hawk Road to Scott Road (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (16)   Inverness Road   Olympic Drive through Doral Drive
   (17)   Ivanhoe Road      Kimball Avenue to westerly end of Midlothian
Boulevard
   (17a)   Johnson Street      Johnson Street to Allen Street (Ord. #5159, 4/
22/13)
   (18)   Jonathan Street   San Marnan Drive to south end of Jonathan Street
(Ord. #4546, 3/25/02)
   (19)   Kingbard Blvd.   West Fourth Street to Fletcher Avenue
   (20)   Kingsley Avenue   At Moir Street (Ord. #4715, 9/7/04)
   (21)   Lindale Avenue   West end to Leonard Avenue (Ord. #4518, 10/15/01)
   (22)   Linn Street      At Adams Street and at Webster Street; at Weber
Street; and at Gable Street. (Ord. #4647, 9/22/03; Ord. #4893, 12/3/07, Ord.
#5471, 11/5/18)
   (23)    Longfellow Avenue   Lindale Avenue to Oakland Avenue (Ord. #4378, 8/
23/99)
   (24)   Loralin Drive      Ora Drive to Rachael Street
   (25)   Lorraine Avenue   LaPorte Road to Wisconsin Street
   (26)   Louise St. (E)      East Fourth Street to Logan Avenue, except for
stop signs on Hope Street (Ord. #4187, 8/19/96)
   (27)   Louise St. (W)   Logan Avenue to Ackermant Street
   (28)   Maplewood Street   Riehl Street to Riverside Drive (Ord. #4518, 10/
15/01)
   (29)   Midlothian Blvd.   Easterly end of Ivanhoe Road to Prospect Boulevard
   (30)   Milwaukee Avenue   Beaver Street to Osage Avenue
   (31)   Minnesota Street   Williston Avenue to Forest Avenue; Bryon Avenue to
Howard Avenue except for two-way stops at Mitchell Avenue and Easton Avenue
(Ord. #4234, 6/9/97)
   (32)   Nicki Street      San Marnan Drive to south end of Nicki Street (Ord.
#4546, 3/25/02)
   (33)   Ohio Street      Williston Avenue to East Ridgeway Avenue except for
two-way stop at Mitchell Ave. and Easton Ave.
   (34)   Oneida Street      Manson Street to Mobile Street
   (35)   Oregon Street      Williston Avenue to East Ridgeway Avenue except
for two-way stop at Mitchell Ave. and Easton Ave.
   (36)   Pleasant Street      West 7th Street to West 8th Street (Ord. #4742,
10/25/04)
   (37)   Prospect Blvd.   West Fourth Street to West Ridgeway Avenue
   (38)   Randolph Street   Williston Avenue to Ridgeway Avenue except for two-
way stops at Mitchell Ave. and Easton Ave.
   (38a)   Reber Avenue      Clough Street to Euclid Avenue (Ord. #5336, 3/7/
16)
   (39)   Ridgemont Road   Ansborough Avenue to Inverness Road
   (40)   Riverside Drive   Riehl Street to Longfellow Avenue (Ord. #4518, 10/
15/01)
   (41)   Sager Avenue      University Avenue to west end
   (42)   Saratoga Drive   Ridgeway (West) to Park Lane
   (43)   Sherman Avenue   At Esther Street (Ord. #4649, 10/6/03)
   (44)   Sioux Street      Easton Avenue to Cornwall Avenue (Ord. #4560, 6/17/
02)
   (45) Sixth Street (W)   Wellington Street to Williston Avenue except for
stop at Allen Street; Mitchell Avenue to Easton Avenue ('91 Rev.; Ord. #4106,
7/10/95; Ord. #4309, 6/22/98)
    (45a)   Tower Park Drive   Bankers Blvd. and Fisher Drive; at Winn Street;
from West of Jonathan Street to Hurst Drive. (Ord. #5365, 8/22/16; Ord. #5457,
6/11/18)   
   (46)   University Ave.
      Access (S)      Ansborough to Sheerer except for stops at Sager and Falls
(Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; Ord. #3415, 11/18/85)
   (47)   University Ave.    Ansborough Avenue to Falls Avenue, except for
yield at Sager
      Access N      Avenue; Falls Avenue to Greenhill Drive, Access A off of
University Avenue, in a easterly and westerly direction; and yield at westerly
most access closest to Greenhill Road, in a westerly direction. (Ord. #5512, 9/
9/19, Ord. # 5513, 9/16/19)
   (48)   Upton Avenue      Ansborough Avenue to Valley Drive
   (49)   Westridge Drive   Inverness Road to West Ridgeway Avenue (Ord. #4323,
10/19/98)
   (50)   Whittier Avenue   Lindale Avenue to Oakland Avenue (Ord. #4518, 10/
15/01)
   (51)   Winn Street      At Fisher Drive (Ord. #4844, 11/6/06)
   (52)   Woodmayr Dr.   Candlewick to Cedar Bend (Ord. #3745, 10/1/90)
*Bishop repealed by Ord. #3114, 11/24/80.
*Bratnober repealed by Ord. #3277, 5/16/83.
*Cornwall repealed by Ord. #3404, 10/7/85.
*Edwards Street repealed by Ord. #3277, 5/16/83.
*Elm Street repealed by Ord. #4020, 6/13/94.
*Linden Avenue repealed by Ord. #4212, 12/2/96.
*Park Avenue repealed by Ord. #3350, 7/16/84.
*Rhey Street repealed by Ord. #4212, 12/2/96.
* Tower Park Drive from west Jonathan Street to Hurst Drive (Ord. #5115, 5/14/
12; Ord. #5365, 8/22/16, Deleted by Ord. #5457, 6/11/18)
SEC. 546.   YIELD INTERSECTIONS.546.   YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
The following is a list of yield streets at special yield intersections which
require the yielding of right of way as set forth in Section 224 of this
ordinance:
   STREET      PORTION DESIGNATED AS YIELD INTERSECTION
   (1)   Bourland Avenue   At LaPorte Road Access Road
   (2)   Bryant Avenue   At Lindale Avenue (Ord. #4518, 10/15/01)
   (3)   Burton Avenue   At Broadway and Virginia Street
   (4)   Byrnes Drive      At Kenilworth Road
   (5)   Cornwall Avenue   At Amherst Avenue (Ord. #4517, 10/15/01)
   (6)   Donald Street (W)   At Broadway and Longfellow Avenue
   (7)    Dundee Avenue   At Stratford Avenue (Ord. #4381, 9/27/99)
   (8)   Hewitt Street      At Webster Street (Ord. #4889, 11/5/07)
   (9)   LaPorte Rd. Access   At entrance to Cadillac Lanes
   (9a)   Linn Street      At Ricker Street (Ord. #4923, 8/18/08)
   (10)   Longfellow Avenue   At Lindale Avenue (Ord. #4518, 10/15/01)
   (11)   Lorraine Avenue   At LaPorte Road Access Road
   (12)   Norwood Avenue   At Whittier Avenue, Bryant Avenue, Maplewood Street,
and Riverside Drive (Ord. #4518, 10/15/01)
   (13)   Pheasant Lane      At Brookeridge Drive (Ord. #4734, 10/4/04)
   (14)   Poplar Avenue   At Bryant Avenue, Maplewood Street, and Riverside
Drive (Ord. #4518, 10/15/01)
   (15)   Riehl Street      At Whittier Avenue, Bryant Avenue, and Maplewood
Street (Ordd. #4518, 10/15/01)
   (15a)   Sheffield Street   At Regal Avenue (Ord. #4922, 8/4/08)
   (16)   South Street      At Hammond Avenue (Ord. #4793, 11/21/05)
   (17)   University Ave.   At Sager Access Road North and access road across
highway from Holiday Station ('91 Rev.)
   (18)   Virginia Street   At Broadway and Burton Avenue
   (19)   Whittier Avenue   At Lindale Avenue (Ord. #4518, 10/15/01)
   (20)    Windsor Drive   At Derbyshire Road (Ord. #4378, 8/23/99)
*Cornwall Avenue   At LaPorte Road Access Road (Deleted by '91 Rev.)
*Wellington Street   At West Park Avenue, southeast bound traffic on Wellington
Street shall yield to northwest bound traffic on Wellington Street (Deleted by
'95 Rev.)
SEC. 547.   STOP AT CERTAIN RAILROAD CROSSINGS.547.   STOP AT CERTAIN RAILROAD
CROSSINGS.
When stop signs are erected at grade crossings of railroads, the driver of any
vehicle shall stop in accordance with Section 259 within fifty (50) feet but
not less than ten (10) feet from the nearest track of such grade crossing and
shall proceed only upon exercising due care. Grade crossings where stops are
required are as follows:
Leversee Road and the Illinois Central Railroad Tracks (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
SEC. 548.   BUS ZONES.548.   BUS ZONES.
No vehicle except buses shall be stopped or parked in any of the bus zones
described as follows from 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. except Sunday:
   STREET               LOCATION
   (1)   Edward Street      South side for a distance of 60 feet west of
Lincoln Street and 60 feet East of Lincoln Street
   (2)   High Street      East side from mid-block in a northerly direction to
Lime Street (Ord. #4434, 8/28/00)
   (3)   Sycamore Street   Southwesterly side from East Park Avenue to East
Third Street (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; 2000 Rev.)
   (4)   Vine Street      North side from mid-block in a westerly direction to
High Street (Ord. #4434, 8/28/00)
*Evergreen (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; deleted by 2000 Rev.)
*Fifth Street (E)--Repealed by Ord. #3277, 5/16/83.
*Fifth Street (W) (Deleted by 2000 Rev.)
*Fourth Street (E)--Repealed by Ord. #3277, 5/16/83.
*Lime Street—Repealed by Ord. #4434, 8/28/00.
*Mulberry Street--Repealed by Ord. #3277, 5/16/83.
*South Street (Deleted by 2000 Rev.)
*Westfield Avenue (Deleted by 2000 Rev.)
SEC. 548A.   NO PARKING – PICK UP AND DROP OFF ONLY
      STREET         LOCATION
   (1)   100 Jefferson Street   Pick up and drop off only in 100 block (in
front of Hawkeye Community College Building) (Ord. #5644, 5/16/22)
   (2)   300 Jefferson Street   Pick up and drop off only in 300 block (in
front of Cedar Valley Sportsplex) (Ord. #5644, 5/16/22)
SEC. 549.   LOADING ZONES OR GRAB-N-GO ZONES.549.   LOADING ZONES.
When signs are erected giving notice of “Loading Zone” or “Grab-n-Go Zone”, no
person shall park any vehicle upon any of the streets or portions thereof as
designated herein, except when actually engaged in the loading or unloading of
passengers or merchandise. Parking in a Grab-n-Go zone shall only be allowed
for a maximum of fifteen minutes. (Ord. #5578, 10/12/2020).
      STREET       BLOCK NUMBER AND SIDE OF STREET LOADING ZONE OR GRAB-N-GO
ZONE IS IN
    (1)    Bratnober Street   North side in 500 block in an easterly direction
from Fairview Avenue (’91 Rev.)
   (2)    Cedar Street       Northeast side in the 300 block; northwest side in
the 500 block
   (3)    Commercial Street   Northeast side in the 800 and 1,000 blocks; both
sides in the 300, 600 and 700 blocks; Southwest side in the 500 block
(Convention Center) (Ord. #5666, 10/17/22)
    (4)    Division Street    East side in the 200 block
   (4a)    Easton Avenue    South side in the 1500 block from school parking
lot driveway to Oregon Street (Ord. #4924, 8/25/08)
   (5)    Evergreen       West side in the 900 block in a southerly direction
from Falls Avenue (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (6)    Fifth Street (E)    Southeast side in the 100 block; two on the
northwest side of the 200 block (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; Ord. # 4849, 2/26/07)
   (7)    Fifth Street (W)    Southeast side in the 200 block; one zone on the
southeast side in the 300 block; southeast side in the 100 and 1200 blocks in
front of Irving School north of the crosswalk, with a five (5) minutes time
limit (Ord. 3277, 5/16/83; Ord. #4274, 1/20/98; Ord. #4401, 12/20/99; 2000
Rev.; Ord. #4860, 2/26/07; Ord. #5044, 5/2/11)
   (8)    Fourth Street (E)    First space near the intersection with Sycamore
Street on the southwest side in the 100 block; one space on both sides of the
200 block; alley behind 315 E. Fourth Street with a thirty (30) minute time
limit; first space near the intersection with Lafayette Street on the northeast
side in the 300 block; first space near the intersection with    Mulberry
Street on the southwest side in the 300 block; (Ord. #5335, 2/22/16) (Ord.
#4581, 9/30/02; repealed by Ord. #4705, 7/19/04)
   (9)    Fourth Street (W)    Northeast side of the 100 block: Northeast side
of the 200 block; northwest side in the 500 block, southeast side in the 600
block (Ord. #3835, 11/18/91)
   (10)    Janney Avenue    North side in the 400 block (’91 Rev.)
   (11)    Jefferson Street    Northeast side in the 500 block; both sides in
the 700 block; southwest side in the 600 block; southwest side in the 900
block; northeast side in the 1500 block (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; ’91 Rev.)
   (12)    Kimball Avenue    South side in the 500 and 800 blocks (’91 Rev.)
   (13)    Lafayette Street    Both sides in the 500 block, south side in the
700 and 900 blocks; alley in the 500 block just west of E. 4th Street, with a
fifteen (15) minute limit (’91 Rev.; Ord. #5042, 4/11/11)
   (14)    Locust Street       Northeast side in the 400 block (Ord. #3277, 5/
16/83)
   (15)    Maxwell Street    West side in the 800 block in a northerly
direction from Falls Avenue (’91 Rev.)
   (16)    Mulberry Street    Southeast side of the 500 block; one space on the
Northeast side in the 600 block (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (17)    Ninth Street (E)    Southeast side in the 200 block
   (18)    Park Avenue (E)    Southeast side in the 200 block (Ord. #3277, 5/
16/83)
   (19)    Second Street (E)    Northwest side in the 200 block
   (20)    Second Street (W)    Southeast side in the 300 block
   (21)    Seventh Street (E)    East side in the 300 block, between signs
(Ord. #5147, 1/14/13)
   (22)    Sixth Street (E)    Two spaces on the northeast side of the 300
block; southwest side of the 400 block.
   (23)    Sixth Street (W)    Southeast side in the 200 block
   (24)    Sycamore Street    Southwest side in the 100 block; northeast side
in the 300 block’ southwest side in the 400 block’ two zones on the southwest
side in the 500 block; two zones on the northeast and southwest sides in the
600 block; both sides in the 700 block; southwest side in the 1300 block (Ord.
#3277, 5/16/83)
   (25)    Third Street (W)    Southeast side in the 200 block; southeast side
in the 300 block
   (26)    Walnut Street       North side in the 300 block (Ord. #4002, 1/18/
94)
   (27)    Water Street       Northeast side in the 600 block (Ord. #3277, 5/
16/83)
SEC. 550.   DESIGNATED MEMORIAL HALL PARKING BETWEEN SIGNS.
   When signs are erected giving notice of parking between signs (there will
only be 2 stalls), no person shall park any vehicle at any time upon any of the
street or portions thereof, except as designated herein:
   STREET      LOCATION
(1)   Courbat Court      On Southwest side (Ord. #5667, 10/17/22)
SEC. 551.   PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES ON CERTAIN STREETS551.   PARKING
PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES ON CERTAIN STREETS
When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park any vehicle
at any time upon any of the street or portions thereof as named herein:
   STREET         PORTION WHERE PARKING PROHIBITED
   (1)   Alley         South side of the alley which extends from Jackson
Street to North Barclay Street and lies between Shilliam Avenue and Oneida
Street (Ord. #4565, 7/22/02)
   (1a)   Alley         Both sides of the alley which extends east-west between
Mobile Street and Elm Street and lies between Courtland Street and Fowler
Street (Ord. #5072, 9/6/11)
   (2)   Acadia Street      North side from Grey Street to Kimball Avenue (Ord.
#4271, 12/8/97)
   (3)   Ackermant Street   West side from W. Parker Street to Illinois Central
Railroad tracks; west side from West Louise to West Dale Street
   (4)   Adams         North side from E. 4th Street to Ankeny Street (Ord.
#4693, 5/10/04)
   (5)   Airline Highway   Logan Avenue to Leversee Road
      (West)
   (6)   Alabar Avenue   North side from Falls Avenue to Littlefield Road (Ord.
#3453, 10/13/86)
   (7)   Aladdin Street      East side from Stratford Avenue to Upton Avenue
(Ord. #5213, 4/28/14)
   (8)   Alexandra Drive   West side from Flammang Drive to Southtown Drive
(Ord. #4143, 12/18/95)
   (9)   Allen Street      Southwest side from West Seventh Street to West
Mullan Avenue
   (10)   Alley running north-south from Dane Street to Argyle Street      West
side from Dane Street to Argyle Street (Ord. #3543, 4/11/88)
   (11)   Almond Street      South side from E. 4th Street to Highway 63
   (12)   Anita Street      South side from Logan Avenue to E. 4th Street;
north and south sides from E. 4th Street to easterly end of Anita Street
   (13)   Ankeny Street      East side from Adams Street to Webster Street
   (14)   Ansborough Ave.   Both sides from San Marnan Drive to Rainbow Drive
(Ord. #3553, 5/9/88)
   (15)   Anthony      South side from Neville Street to Spring View Street
(Ord. #3415, 11/18/85)
   (16)   Archer Avenue   North side from Linden Avenue to Colorado Street
   (17)   Arden Street      South side from Clough Street to W. 4th Street
   (18)   Ardmore Street   East side from Carriage Hill Drive to Maynard Avenue
   (19)   Argyle Street      South side from E. 4th Street to Clay Street;
south side from Logan Avenue to Utica Street
   (20)   Arizona Street      West side from Vine Street to Independence Avenue
(Ord. #3375, 11/13/84)
   (21)   Arlington Street   North side from E. 4th Street to westerly end of
said street
   (22)   Auburn Street      East side from Shady Lane to Joy Drive
   (23)   Avon Avenue      East and west sides from E. Conger Street to
southerly end of Avon Avenue; west side from Conger Street to Riehl; east side
from Parker to Kern (Ord. #4378, 8/23/99)
   (23a)   Axlewood Drive   East side of Axlewood Drive to Magnolia Parkway
(Ord. #5754, 3/18/24)
   (24)   Baltimore Street   East and west sides from E. Ridgeway Avenue to W.
5th Street; southwest side from W. 5th Street to W. 4th Street; southwest side
from W. 3rd Street to Sullivan Avenue
   (25)   Barclay St. (N)   West side from Shilliam Avenue to Lester Street
(Ord. #3415, 11/18/85)
   (26)   Barclay St. (S)   East side from Independence Avenue to northerly end
of S. Barclay and west side from Maple Street to northerly end of S. Barclay
   (27)   Bauch Street      North side from Maxwell to Aladdin
   (28)   Bayard Street      East side from Byron Avenue to Williston Avenue;
east and west sides from Williston Avenue to W. 5th Street; southwest side from
W. 5th Street to W. 3rd Street; south side in the 100 and 200 blocks
   (29)   Beck Avenue      Both sides from Vaughn to Duryea (Ord. #3277, 5/16/
83)
   (30)   Bellaire Road      West side from West Ridgeway Avenue to Midlothian
Road
   (31)   Berlin Street      Southwest side from Englewood Avenue to Knoll
Avenue
   (32)   Bertch Avenue   South side from Kimball Avenue to W. 9th Street;
north side from W. 9th Street to W. 11th Street; south side from W. 11th Street
to Washington Street
   (33)   Beverly Hills      East side from Carriage Hill Drive to Maynard
Avenue
   (34)   Birmingham Ave.   On the westerly side from Hawthorne Avenue to Regal
Avenue (Ord. #3689, l/2/90)
   (35)   Bishop Avenue   Both sides from Independence Avenue to Martin Luther
King Jr. Drive (Ord. #4485, 6/11/01)
   (36)   Bismark Avenue   South side from Ansborough Avenue to Evergreen
Avenue; north side from Evergreen Avenue to Magnolia Parkway; south side from
Magnolia Parkway to Knoll Avenue (Ord. #4156, 3/4/96)
   (37) Black Hawk Rd.   Both sides from Katoski Drive to Oriole Avenue, except
for two hour parking fifty (50) feet on either side of the driveway to 1720
Black Hawk Road; southeast side from Ansborough Avenue to the flood dike;
northeast side from Downing to Ansborough Avenue; southeast side from Downing
Avenue to Fletcher Avenue (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; Ord. #4316, 7/20/98; Ord.
#4331, 11/23/98)
   (38)   Black Hawk St.   Northeast side from W. 11th Street to W. 18th
Street; southwest side from W. 11th Street to W. 12th Street; southwest side
from W. 14th Street to W. 15th Street
   (39)   Block Street      East side from Lafayette Street to Butler Avenue
   (40)   Bluff Street      Northeast side from W. 7th Street to W. 5th Street;
southwest side from W. 7th Street to W. 4th Street; southwest side from W. 3rd
Street to West Mullan Avenue; northeast side in the 600 block; both sides in
the 1400 block (Ord. #4909, 6/2/08)
   (41)   Boston Avenue   West side from East Arlington Street to East Donald
Street
   (42)   Bourland Street   South side from W. 9th Street to Randolph Street;
north side from W. 6th Street to W. 7th Street; north side from Kimball Avenue
to the easterly end of said street
   (43)   Bratnober Street   North side from Broadway Street to Fairview
Avenue; south side from Broadway Street to Lincoln Street
   (44)   Broadway Street   Southerly side and northerly side from Utica Street
to Airline Highway
   (45)   Brockway Road   West side from Glencoe Avenue to West Park Lane
   (46)   Brookeridge Drive   Southerly side from Pheasant Lane to Kimball
Avenue (Ord. #3292, 7/18/83)
   (47)   Bryant Avenue   East side from Lindale Avenue to Oakland Avenue
   (48)   Burton Avenue   West side from Park Road to Walker Street; east side
from Newton Street to West Parker Street and from Walker Street to Virginia
Street; east and west sides from Donald Street to Midland Street (Ord. #3779,
4/1/91)
   (49)   Butler Avenue      South side from Indiana Street to Linden Avenue
   (50)   Butler Street      East side from Louise Street to Dale Street; west
side from Riehl Street to the Illinois Central Railroad tracks
   (51)   Byrnes Drive      South side from W. 4th Street to Sunset Road (Ord.
#4704, 7/12/04)
   (52)   Byron Avenue      South side from Kimball Avenue to Vermont Street;
south side from W. 7th Street to Oregon Street; south side from Oregon Street
to LaPorte Road
   (53)   Camelot Drive   Both sides from Sears Drive to the northerly end of
Camelot Drive (Ord. #3235, 8/9/82)
   (54)   Campbell Avenue   North and south sides from W. 4th Street to Orange
Grove Avenue
   (55)   Canterbury Court   North side in the 3600 block (Ord. #4641, 9/2/03)
   (56)   Carolina Avenue   North side from Vermont Street to Prospect Blvd.
   (57)   California Street   West side in the 400 and 500 blocks (Ord. #4138,
11/20/95)
   (58)   Carter Street      West side from Falls Avenue and south one block
   (59)   Cataract Street   North side from Edgemont Street to Barton Avenue
(Ord. #4898, 2/25/08)
   (60)   Cedar Street      Northeast side from W. 4th Street to W. 2nd Street
(Ord. #5668, 10/17/22)
   (61)   Center Street      South side from Logan Avenue to Fairview Avenue
   (62)   Chalmer Avenue   East side in the 900 and 1000 blocks (Ord. #3137, 4/
13/81; Ord. #3509, 10/12/87)
   (63)   Charles Street      North side from E. 4th Street to N. Barclay
Street
   (64)   Cherry Street      West side from Independence Avenue to Glenwood
Street
   (65)   Clarissa Street      Northeast side from W. 4th Street to Sunset Road
   (66)   Clay Street      West side from Walnut Street to Chestnut Street
   (67)   Cleveland Street   East and west sides from Highway 218 to Westfield
Avenue
   (68)   Clough Street      West side from Summit Avenue to Sunset Road
   (69)   Colby Road      West side from Glencoe Avenue to Olympic Drive
   (70)   Colorado Street   West side from Independence Avenue to Lafayette
Street
   (71)   Columbia Street   West side from Park Road to Illinois Central
Railroad tracks, formerly known as W.C.F.&N. Railroad tracks, and from West
Parker Street to the northerly end of the 1200 block of Columbia Street and
from West Louise Street to West Donald Street
   (72)   Columbus Drive   North side from W. 9th Street to the easterly end of
said street (Ord. #3182, 12/21/81)
   (73)   Commercial Street   Both sides from LaPorte Road to West 18th; both
sides from West 12th Street to West 11th Street; southwest side from West 11th
Street to West 7th Street; both sides in the 700 block and northwest side from
West 2nd to Mullan Avenue (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; Ord. #3444, 7/7/86; Ord. #4966,
10/12/09)
   (73a)   Commercial St. (W)   Both sides in the 00 to 400 blocks (Ord. #4966,
10/12/09)
   (74)   Conger Street (E)   North and south sides from Riverside Drive to
Burton Avenue
   (75)   Conger Street (W)   North and southeast sides from Rainbow Drive to
Riverside Drive
   (76) Cornwall Avenue   South side from W. 9th Street to LaPorte Road; north
side from W. 7th Street to Kimball Avenue (Ord. #4316, 7/20/98)
   (77)   Cottage Street      North side from E. 4th Street to Mobile Street;
south side from E. 4th Street to Manson Street (Ord. #4066, 1/3/95)
   (77a)   Courbat Court      Northeast side from W. 4th Street to W. 5th
Street;
                  Southwest side from W. 4th Street to W. 5th Street;
                  except where Memorial Hall Parking is allowed (Ord. #5668,
10/17/22)
   (78)   Court Avenue      Westerly side from Sycamore Street to Rath Street
(Ord. #3952, 6/28/93)
   (79)   Courtland Street   South side from Franklin Street to Vinton Street
   (79a)   Cycline Drive      Both sides from Tital Trail to Marnie Avenue
(Ord. #5561, 6/15/20)
   (80)   Dahlia         East side from East Orange Road to Marigold
   (81)   Dale Street      South side from Highway 63 to Heath (East and
West)Street; south side from E. 4th Street to Logan Avenue; north side from
Logan Avenue to the westerly end of said street
   (82)   Darlene Court      West side from West Park Lane to cul-de-sac (Ord.
#4365, 6/28/99; Ord. #4946, 6/22/09)
   (83)   Dawson Street      North side from Leonard Street to Logan Avenue
   (84)   Denver Street      Northeast side from Sullivan Avenue to W. 4th
Street; east side from W. 5th Street to Hawthorne Avenue; east side from Eureka
to Holm Street
   (85)   Derbyshire Road   Northeast side from Prospect Blvd. to Sunset Road
   (86)   Devonshire Drive   South side from Delane Avenue to Ansborough Avenue
   (87)   Dewitt Road      Both sides from Ridgeway Avenue to dead end of
Dewitt Road (Ord. #4435, 9/11/00)
   (88)   Division Street   East side from Lafayette Street to Sycamore Street
   (89)   Dixon Drive      North side from Russell Road to Ansborough Avenue
   (90)   Donald Street (E)   South side from E. 4th Street to Wilson Drive
   (91)   Donald Street (W)   Both sides from Logan Avenue to Heath Street;
both sides from Medina Road to west end of Donald Street just past the dike
(Ord. #3589, 10/10/88; Ord. #4177, 7/1/96)
   (92)   Doreen Avenue   West side from Sager Avenue to Downing Avenue; east
and west sides from Sager Avenue to the northerly end of said street including
both sides of circle on said street (Ord. #3453, 10/13/86)
   (93)   Dorothy Drive   East side from Downing Avenue to University Avenue
   (94)   Downing Avenue   North side from S. Hackett Road to Black Hawk Road
   (95)   Drexel Avenue   West side from Reber Ave. to Campbell Ave.
   (96)   Dublin Drive      East side from Orange Road to south end of street
(Ord. #4406; 2/21/00)
   (97)   Dundee Avenue   East side from Upton Avenue to Downing Avenue
   (98)   Duryea Street      Both sides from Westfield to Falls Avenue (Ord.
#3277, 5/16/83)
   (99)   Dysart Road      Both sides from Orange Road to Shaulis Road (Ord.
#3510, 10/19/87)
   (100)   Easton Avenue   South side from Kimball Avenue to W. 11th Street;
north side from W. 11th Street to Oregon Street; south side from Oregon Street
to LaPorte Road (Ord. #4590, 12/16/02)
   (101)   Edgebrook Drive   Northeast side from Prescott to Charm (Ord. #3568,
7/5/88)
   (102)   Edgemont Avenue   West side from Ridgeway Avenue south to end of
pavement (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (103)   Edgewood Drive   West side from Huntington Road to Fleur Drive
   (104)   Edwards Street   South side from Fairview Avenue to Logan Avenue
   (105)   Eighteenth Street   Northwest and southeast sides
   (Bridge)
   (106)   Eighteenth St. (W)   Northwest and southeast sides from Black Hawk
Street to Williston Avenue
   (107)   Eighth Street (E)   Northwest side from Franklin Street to Water
Street
   (108)   Eighth Street (W)   West and northwest sides from Commercial Street
to Byron Avenue; southeast side from Commercial Street to Jefferson Street
(Ord. #4789, 11/21/05)
   (109)   Eleanor Drive      Southwest side from Sager Avenue to Downing
Avenue
   (110)   Eleventh Street   Northwest and southeast sides
   (Bridge)
   (111)   Eleventh St. (E)   Northwest and southeast sides from Franklin
Street to Water Street
   (112)   Eleventh Street   Northwest and southeast sides from Black Hawk
Street to Washington Street; east and west sides from Washington Street to
Easton Avenue; west side from Easton Avenue to East Ridgeway Avenue
   (113)   Elm Street      East side from Sycamore Street to Independence
Avenue
   (114)   Elmridge Drive   West side from Midlothian Boulevard to West
Ridgeway Avenue
   (115)   Elmwood Street   North side from Locust Street to Sullivan Avenue
   (116)   Engelwood Avenue   East side from Downing Avenue to Main Street
   (117)   Esther Street      North side from E. 4th Street to Logan Avenue;
south side from E. 4th Street to Sherman Avenue; north and south sides from E.
4th Street to Mildred Street
   (118)   Euclid Avenue      East side from Lulu Street to Reber Avenue; west
side from Reber Avenue to Columbia Circle (Ord. #3877, 7/6/92; Ord. #5061, 7/
25/11)
   (119)   Evergreen Avenue   East side from Upton Avenue to Downing Avenue
   (120)   Fairview Avenue   West side from Lafayette Street to Riehl Street
   (121)   Falls Avenue      North and south sides, from Sunnyside Avenue to
Highway 218
   (122)   Fereday Court      Northwest side from Sunnyside to end of street
(Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (123)   Fifth St. Bridge   Northwest and southeast sides
   (124)   Fifth Street (E)   Southeast side in the 400 block; northwest side
in the 300 block; southeast side in the 200 block (Ord. #4398, 11/22/99)
   (125)   Fifth Street (W)   Northwest side from Memorial Court to Washington
Street; southeast side in the 200 block; one zone on southeast side in the 300
block; northwest side in the 500 block; south and southeast side from Randolph
to Grant; north and northwest side from Grant to Bayard; both sides from Bayard
to Martha (Ord. #4002, 1/18/94; 2000 Rev.; Ord. #4864, 4/2/07)
   (125A)   Fifth Street (W)   Southeast side in the 1000 block of West 5th
Street (Ord. #5128, 8/27/12)
   (126)   First St. Bridge   Northwest and southeast sides
   (127)   First Street (E)   Northwest and southeast sides from the northerly
end of First Street Bridge to Franklin Street
   (128)   First Street (W)   Northwest side from Locust Street to the
southerly end of First Street Bridge; southeast side from Washington Street to
southerly end of First Street Bridge
   (129)   Flammang Drive   North and northeast side from Hammond Avenue to San
Marnan Drive (Ord. #3375, 11/13/84)
   (130)   Fletcher Avenue   West side from Campbell Avenue to Sunset; both
sides from Highway 63 to Westfield Avenue (Ord. #4002, 1/18/94)
   (131)   Fleur Drive      West side from Monterey Drive to Sager Avenue
   (132)   Florence Street   West side from Independence Avenue to Glenwood
Street
   (133)   Flower Street      South side from Littlefield Road to Sheerer
Avenue
   (134)   Forest Avenue      South side from Kimball Avenue to Wisconsin
Street
   (135)   Forrester      East side from Rainbow Drive to Dike
   (136)   Fourteenth (W)   Southeast side from Bluff to Jefferson (Ord. #3277,
5/16/83)
   (137)   Fourth St. Bridge   Northwest and southeast sides
   (138)   Fourth St. (E)      West side Franklin Street to Walnut Street; east
side Walnut Street to Lime Street; west side Parker Street to Arlington Street;
both sides Sumner Street to Adams Street; east side Webster Street to Donald
Street (Ord. #3585, 9/26/88; Ord. #4130, 9/25/95; Ord. #4436, 9/18/00; Ord.
#4568, 8/12/02; Ord. #4705, 7/19/04)
   (139)   Fourth St. (W)   Northwest side from Kingsley Avenue to Kimball
Avenue; northwest side from Moir Street to Arden Street; two zones on northwest
side in 400 block; southeast side from Washington to South; south and southeast
side from Grant to Kimball Avenue; both sides from Kimball Avenue to southerly
corporate limits, except for two Sunday only zones near Zion Lutheran Church
(Ord. #3097, 8/11/80; Ord. #3299, 9/12/83; Ord. #4002, 1/18/94; Ord. #4076, 2/
27/95)
   (140)   Fowler Street      South side from Franklin Street to Vinton Street;
north side from Vinton Street to Linden Avenue; south side from Linden Avenue
to Nevada Street. (Ord. #4020, 6/13/94; Ord. #4043, 10/3/94; Ord. #4659, 12/1/
03)
   (141)   Franklin Street   Northeast and southwest sides from Utica Street to
Lane Street; north and south sides from Lane Street to Nevada Street; northerly
and southerly sides from Nevada Street to easterly corporate limits
   (142)   Frederick Avenue   North and northeast sides from Kimball Avenue to
Prospect Boulevard
   (143)   Fremont Street   East and west sides from Walnut Street to Vine
Street
   (144)   French Street      South side from Idaho Street to Colorado Street
   (145)   Gable Street      South side from E. 4th Street to Hewitt Street;
south side from Ankeny Street to westerly end
   (146)   Galloway Court   West side from Maynard Avenue to Upton Avenue
   (147)   Garden Avenue   North side from Black Hawk Road to Wren Road
   (148)   Gayle Street      East side from Maynard Avenue to Joy Drive
   (149)   Glencoe      North side from Hillcrest to Brockway (Ord. #3277, 5/
16/83)
   (150)   Glenny Avenue   South side from W. 9th Street to Oregon Street
   (151)   Glenwood Street   South side from S. Barclay Street to Steely Street
   (152)   Graceline Blvd.   East side from Maryland Avenue to W. 4th Street
   (153)   Grandview Ave.   East side from W. Parker Street to Broadway Street
   (154)   Grant Avenue      North and northeast sides from Linwood Avenue to
W. 9th Street; southwest side from W. 6th Street to W. 4th Street; northeast
side from W. 4th Street to W. 5th Street; northeast side from W. 6th Street to
W. 9th Street
   (155)   Gray         East side from Easton to Acadia (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (156)   Greenhill Road   Both sides from Forester Avenue to the westerly
corporate limits (Ord. #3606, 12/12/88; Ord. #4002, 1/18/94)
   (157)   Greenwood Ave.   North side from Dellwood Court to N. Hackett Road
   (157a)   Grindstone Circle   East side between Darby Drive and Mourning Dove
Drive (Ord. #5540, 2/17/20)
   (157b) Greyhound Drive    Both sides of street from West Ridgeway Ave. to
Sergeant Road (Hwy 63). (Ord. #5637, 3/7/22)
   (158)   Hackett Road      West side from Downing Avenue to Rainbow Drive;
east side from University Avenue to Maynard Avenue (Ord. #3315, 11/21/83)
   (159)   Hale         West side from Byron Avenue to Palmer Drive
   (160)   Hallowell Road   East side from Bowers Street to Independence Avenue
(Ord. #3375, 11/13/84)
   (161)   Hammond Avenue   East and west sides from South Street to E.
Ridgeway Avenue; east side from E. Ridgeway Avenue to Highway 412
   (161a)   Hammond Court   Both sides in the 100 block from Hammond Avenue
west to the alley (Ord. #4930, 11/17/08)
   (162)   Hanna Blvd.      East side from Falls Avenue to Shady Lane
   (163)   Harlan Court      Southwest side from Williston Avenue to westerly
line of Harlan Court
   (164)   Harrison Street   South side from Logan Avenue to Oak Avenue
   (165)   Hartman Avenue   South side from Knoll Avenue to Ansborough Avenue;
south side from Thorndale to Wilbur (1100 block) (Ord. #3227, 6/28/82; Ord.
#4470, 4/16/01)
   (166)   Harwood Avenue   North side from Evergreen Avenue to Ansborough
Avenue; south side from Englewood Avenue to Cleveland Street
   (167)   Hawthorne Avenue   South side from Kimball Avenue to LaPorte Road
   (168)   Hawver Court      South side from E. 4th Street to Ankeny
   (169)   Heartland Hills Dr.   East side from Matthew Drive to Sager Avenue
(Ord. #3985, 11/8/93)
   (170)   Heath Street      East side from W. Dale Street to W. Louise Street;
west side from W. Dale to W. Donald Street; west side in the 1800 and 1900
blocks (Ord. #3318, 12/19/83; Ord. #4863, 4/2/07)
   (171)   Henry Court      North and south sides from Hammond Avenue to
Linwood Avenue
   (172)   Hickory Street      East side from Falls Avenue to Stratford Street
   (173)   High Street      East and west sides from Maple Street to Lime
Street
   (173a)   Highland Blvd.   East side in a northerly direction and west side
in a southerly direction of 300 block (Ord. 5321, 12/7/15.
   (174)   Hillcrest Road      West side from Midlothian Blvd. to W. Ridgeway
Avenue
   (175)   Hillside Avenue   West side from W. Mitchell Avenue to Frederick
Avenue
   (176)   Hoff Road      Both sides from West Fourth Street to Shaulis Road
(Ord. #3510, 10/19/87)
   (177)   Holm Street      South side from Vermont Street to Baltimore Street
   (178)   Home Park Blvd.   South side from Fletcher Avenue to Orange Grove
Avenue
   (179)   Homer Street      West side from Lake Side Street to the northerly
line of Homer Street
   (180)   Hope Street      West side from E. Parker Street to the Illinois
Central Railroad tracks, formerly known as the WCF & N Railroad tracks; west
side from Esther Street to E. Donald Street
   (181)   Howard Avenue   North side from LaPorte Road to the easterly end of
said street; south side from W. 11th Street to Hammond Avenue (Ord. #3182, 12/
21/81)
   (182)   Hubbard Avenue   Northeast side from W. 4th Street to Sunset Road
   (182a)   Hummingbird Cr.   Outer circle side (Ord. #5228, 7/28/14)
   (183)   Huntington Road   North and south sides from Black Hawk Road to
Cedar Heights Drive; north side from Black Hawk Road to Scott Avenue
   (184)   Ida Street      East side one block from Rainbow Drive
   (185)   Idaho Street      East and west sides from Dubuque Road to Alta
Vista Avenue; west side in the 100 block (Ord. #4955, 8/24/09)
   (186)   Independence Ave.   South side from S. Barclay Street to Hallowell
Road; north side from Vinton Street to Mohawk Street; north side from Idaho
Street to Hallowell Road; north side from Rampart Lane to Bishop Avenue (Ord.
#5011, 9/20/10)
   (187)   Ingersoll Road      East side from Huntington Road to Aspen Drive
   (188)   Iowa Street      West side from Walnut Street to Dane Street
   (189)   Irving Street      West side from Glenwood Street to Franklin
Street, except for a one-hour zone in a northerly direction from Franklin
Street (Ord. #4113, 7/24/95; Ord. #4121, 8/14/95; Ord. #4324, 10/26/98)
   (190)   Ivanhoe Road      North side from Kimball Avenue to Midlothian
Boulevard
   (191)   Janney Avenue   North side in 100 and 200 blocks; north side from
Ansborough to Chalmers (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (192)   Janney Street      West side from Falls Avenue to Paul Avenue
   (193)   Jefferson Street   Both sides from West Mullan Avenue to W. First
Street; northeast side from W. 6th Street to W. 11th Street; portions of the
southwest side in the 200 and 600 blocks; the 200 block of the northeast side;
a portion of the northeast side in the 700 block; and the northeast side of the
300 block of Jefferson Street between W. 1st Street and West 2nd Street. (Ord.
#5637, 3-21-22)
   (193a)   Jefferson St. (W)   Both sides in the 00 block (Ord. #4969, 10/12/
09)
   (194)   Joan Drive      West side from Wildwood Road to Ravenwood Road; east
side from East Orange Road to Marigold Drive
   (195)   Joder Street      West side from Janney Avenue to Fletcher Avenue
(2000 Rev.)
   (196)   Johnson Street      South and southwest sides from Williston Avenue
to W. 8th Street and from W. 7th Street to W. 6th Street (Ord. #4031, 8/1/94;
Ord. #4401, 12/20/99)
   (197)   Josephine Street   South side from Burton Avenue to Longfellow
Avenue and north side from McKay Avenue to Longfellow Avenue
   (198)   Joy Drive      South side from Auburn Street to Maynard Avenue
   (199)   Julian Avenue      East side from Downing Avenue to Eleanor Drive
   (200)   Julie Court      South side from Kimball Avenue to westerly end of
Julie Court
   (201)   Kaplan Drive      North side from Hammond Avenue to Bethel Street
   (202)   Katoski Drive      Both sides from Greenhill Road to Black Hawk Road
(Ord. #3606, 12/12/88)
   (203)   Kelly Court      West side of Kelly Court (Ord. #3252, 12/13/82)
   (204)   Kenilworth Road   Easterly side from Derbyshire Road to Byrnes Drive
   (205)    Kent Circle      Both sides (Ord. #4862, 3/19/07)
   (206)   Kern Street      North side from Longfellow Avenue to Broadway
Street; south side from Columbia Street to Logan Avenue (Ord. #4207, 11/12/96)
   (207)   Keystone Street   South side from East Fourth Street to Niles Street
   (208)   Kimball Avenue   West side from Reber Avenue to West Third Street;
both sides from West Third Street to the southerly corporate limits (Ord.
#3510, 10/19/87)
   (209)   Kimball Frontage   Both sides from Ridgeway Avenue to Park Lane and
from north side of Rachael Street to Brookeridge Drive (Ord. #3476, 3/9/87)
   (210)   King Drive      Both sides from San Marnan Access Road to St.
Francis Drive (Ord. #4088, 4/10/95; Ord. #4644, 9/8/03)
   (211)   Kingsley Avenue   South side from West Fourth Street to Orange Grove
Avenue
   (212)   Kingswood Place   South and southeast side in the 3400 block (Ord.
#3247, 11/15/82)
   (213)   Kirkwood Avenue   East side from Upton Avenue to Harwood Avenue
   (214)   Knoll Avenue      West side from Downing Avenue to Bismark Avenue
   (215)   Knox Street      East side from Miriam Drive to Palmer Drive
   (216)   Lafayette Street   Northeast and southwest sides from Osage Avenue
to Vinton Street; northeast side from Vinton Street to East Eleventh Street;
southwest side from East Seventh Street to East Sixth Street; southwest side
from East Park Avenue to East Mullan Avenue; southwest side from Lane Street to
East Eleventh Street; southwest side from Vinton Street to Lane Street (Ord.
#4726, 9/20/04; Ord. #5180, 10/7/13, Ord. #5186, 10/28/13)
   (217)   Lake Street      Southeast side from Sycamore Street to Rath Street
   (218)   Lakeside Street   North side from East Fourth Street to Niles Street
   (219)   Lane Street      East side from Lafayette Street to Vine Street
   (220)   Langley Road      North side from Hammond Avenue to Bethel Street
   (221)   LaPorte Road      Easterly and westerly sides from Paper Mill Street
to southeast corporate limits; east and west sides of what is known as LaPorte
Road Access Road
   (222)   Lark Lane      South side from Scott Avenue to east end of Lark Lane
(Ord. #4324, 10/26/98)
   (223)   Lawnhill Avenue   East side from Reber Avenue to Columbia Circle
   (224)   Leavitt Street      Northeast side from Hammond Avenue to West Ninth
Street; south side from West Ninth Street to West Eighth Street (Ord. #4107, 7/
10/95; #4270, 12/8/97)
   (225)   Leland Avenue   Both sides from W. Mullan to Highway 218 (Ord.
#3277, 5/16/83)
   (226)   Leonard Avenue   East side from Dawson Street to West Parker Street
   (227)   Lester Street      North side from E. 4th Street to N. Barclay
Street
   (228)   Liberty Avenue   South side from W. 9th Street to Oregon Street;
south side from Wisconsin Street to Dena Street (Ord. #4821, 7/10/06)
   (229)   Lincoln Street      West side from Edwards Street to Illinois
Central Railroad tracks, formerly known as the WCF & N Railroad tracks; north
side from Logan Avenue to Bratnober Street
   (230)   Lindale Avenue   South side from Oakland to west end of street (Ord.
#3277, 5/16/83)
   (231)   Linden Avenue   West side from Lafayette Street to Courtland Street;
east and west sides from Oneida Street to Willow Street
   (232)   Linn Street      East side from Sumner Street to Cottage Street;
west side from Gable Street to Oliver Street (Ord. #4779, 8/22/05)
   (233)   Linwood Avenue   West side from South Street to Williston Avenue
   (234)   Littlefield Rd.      West side from University access road to Sager
Street
   (235)   Locke Avenue      South side from W. 9th Street to Randolph Street
and north side of 2000 block; south side from Oregon Street to LaPorte Road;
north and south sides from LaPorte Road to easterly end of Locke Avenue
   (236)   Locust Street      Southwest side from W. 6th Street to W. Mullan
Avenue; northeast side from W. 6th Street to W. 5th Street
   (237)   Logan Avenue      West side from Almond Street to Edwards Street;
west side from Center Street to W. Parker Street; east and west sides from W.
Parker Street to northerly city limits (Ord. #3664, 9/25/89)
   (238)   Lombard Street   East side from Terrace Drive to Easton Avenue (Ord.
#4845, 11/6/06)
   (239)   Longfellow Ave.   West side from W. Parker Street to Lindale Avenue;
east side from W. Parker Street to Josephine Street
   (240)   Lorraine Avenue   South side from W. 9th Street to Randolph Street;
north side from W. 8th Street to Baltimore Street
   (241)   Louise St. (E)      South side from East Fourth Street to Logan
Avenue (Ord. #4143, 12/18/95)
   (242)   Louise St. (W)   South side from Logan Avenue to westerly end of
said street
   (243)   Lovejoy Avenue   East side from W. 4th Street to Frederick Avenue
   (244)   Lunar         North side from Black Hawk Road to Solar
   (245)   Lynda Road      West side from Olympic Drive to Rachael Street
   (246)   Madison Street   South side from Idaho Street to Nevada Street
   (247)   Magnolia Parkway   East side from Main Street to Downing Avenue
(Ord. 5316, 11/2/15)
   (248)   Manhard Street   East side from Falls Avenue to Beck Avenue
   (249)   Manson Street      East side from Quincy to Gable (Ord. #3137, 4/13/
81; Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (250)   Maple Street      North side from Walnut Street to High Street
   (251)   Maplewood St.   East side from Riverside Drive to Riehl Street
   (252)   Marsh Street      West side from Reber Avenue to W. 4th Street (Ord.
#4011, 4/11/94; Ord. #4070, 1/9/95)
   (253)   Martin Luther King Jr. Drive      Both sides from Franklin Street to
N. Elk Run Road (Ord. #4252, 9/8/97; Ord. #4485, 6/11/01)
   (254)   Martha Street      West side from Williston Avenue to Forest Avenue
   (255)   Martin Road      South side from Ansborough Avenue to W. 4th Street;
north side in the 1000 block (Ord. #4954, 8/24/09)
   (256)   Maryland Avenue   South and southwest sides from Carolina Avenue to
Kimball Avenue (Ord. #3453, 10/13/86)
   (257)   Maxhelen Blvd.   Both sides (Ord. #4846, 11/13/06)
   (258)   Maxine Avenue   North side from Joy Drive to Zachary Court (Ord.
#3453, 10/13/86)
   (259)   Maxwell Street   East side from Falls Avenue to Stratford Avenue;
east side from Upton Avenue to Maynard Avenue (Ord. #4166, 5/13/96)
   (260)   Maynard Avenue   North side from east end of street to Valley Drive;
south side in 900 block; south side from Beverly Hills Drive to Woodbridge
Street (2000 Rev.)
   (261)   Meadow Lane      Northeast side from Russell Road to Rosehill
Terrace; southwest side from Ansborough to Crestview; northeast side from
Ansborough to Mt. Vernon Drive (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (262)   Memorial Court   Southwest side from W. 6th Street to W. 5th Street;
northeast side from W. 5th Street to W. 4th Street
   (263)   Midport Blvd.      Both sides from Airport Blvd. to easterly end of
street (Ord. #4253, 9/8/97)
   (264)   Midway Drive      East side from 100 feet south of Richland Avenue
to Cadillac Drive; westerly side from University Avenue to Progress Avenue
(Ord. #3901, 11/16/92)
   (265)   Miriam Drive      South side from Hale Street to Vermont Street
   (266)   Mitchell Ave. (E)   South side from Kimball Avenue to Hammond
Avenue; north side from Kimball Avenue to LaPorte Road (Ord. #3796, 7/1/91)
   (267)   Mitchell Ave. (W)   North side from Derbyshire Road to Kimball
Avenue
   (268)   Mobile Street      East side from Martin Luther King Jr. Drive to
Cottage Street; east side from Independence Avenue to Franklin Street; west
side from Martin Luther King Jr. Drive to Douglas Street (Ord. #4252, 9/8/97)
   (268a)   Mockingbird Lane   West side of the 4100 block. (Ord. 5326, 12/21/
15) (deleted by Ord. #5703, 6/5/23)
   (269)   Mohawk Street   East side from Independence Avenue to Glenwood
Street
   (270)   Moir Street      West side from Elmwood Cemetery to W. 4th Street
   (271)   Monroe Street      North side from Idaho Street to Nevada Street
   (272)   Monterey Drive   North side from Aspen Drive to Edgewood Drive
   (273)   Montrose Road   West side from Midlothian Blvd. to W. Ridgeway
Avenue
   (274)   Morgan Road      North side in the 100 block (Ord. #3218, 6/14/82)
   (274a)   Mourning Dove Dr   East side of Mourning Dove Drive (Ord. #5229, 7/
28/14)
   (274b) Movilla Street      West side of Movilla Street from Stewart Avenue
in a southerly direction to the dead end. (Ord. #5566, 7/13/20)
   (275)   Mulberry Street   North and northeast sides from Lane Street to E.
11th Street; south side from Elm Street to Rhey Street; southwest side from E.
11th Street to E. 7th Street; northeast side in the 400 and 800 blocks (Ord.
#3277, 5/16/83; Ord. #4019, 6/13/94)
   (276)   Mullan Ave. Bridge   Southeasterly and northwesterly sides from
westerly end to the northerly end of Mullan Avenue Bridge
   (277)   Mullan Ave. (E)   Southeast and northwest sides from northerly side
of Mullan Avenue Bridge to Parker Street
   (278)   Mullan Ave. (W)   Northwest and southeast sides from Washington
Street to the southerly end of Mullan Avenue Bridge; northwest side from
Washington Street to Belmont Avenue (Ord. #3928, 3/1/93; Ord. #3937, 4/26/93;
Ord. #4022, 6/27/94)
   (279)   Nancy Drive      West side from Olympic Drive to Rachael Street
   (280)   National Drive   Both sides from W. Ridgeway Avenue to Bellaire Road
   (281)   Nevada Street      West side from Independence Avenue to Lafayette
Street
   (282)   Newell Street      South side from Mullan Avenue to Ankeny Street
('95 Rev.)
   (283)   Newton Street      North side from Broadway Street to Longfellow
Avenue
   (284)   Niles Street      West side from E. Donald Street to northerly line
of Niles Street
   (285)   Ninth St. (E)      Northwest side from Franklin to Water; southeast
side from Water to Sycamore (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (286)   Ninth St. (W)      East side from J & R Drive to Commercial Street;
southeasterly side from Jefferson to Johnson; both sides from Washington to
Locke (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; Ord. #4274, 1/20/98)
   (287)   Norimer      West side from Wellington to Mullan (Ord. #3277, 5/16/
83)
   (288)   Norwood Avenue   South side from Riverside Drive to Oakland Avenue
   (289)   Oak Avenue      Southeast side from Lafayette Street to Franklin
Street and Argyle Street to Harrison Street
   (290)   Oakland      West and northwest side from Kern to Conger (Ord.
#3277, 5/16/83)
   (291)   Oaklawn Avenue   East side from West Mullan Avenue to Falls Avenue
   (292)   Oakwood Drive   North side from Cedar Bend Street to Greenbrier
Drive
   (293)   Oleson Road      North side from Hammond Avenue to Bethel Street
(Ord. #3137, 4/13/81)
   (294)   Oliver Street      North side from E. 4th Street to N. Barclay (Ord.
#3137, 4/13/81)
   (295)   Olympic Drive   North side from Pheasant Lane to Ansborough Avenue
(Ord. #3415, 11/18/85)
   (296)   Onawa Drive      South side from Fleur Drive to Edgewood Drive (Ord.
#3137, 4/13/81)
   (297)   Oneida         North side between Beech and Linden; south side
between Mobile and Ash (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (298)   Orange Grove      East side from Campbell to Home Park (Ord. #3277,
5/16/83)
   (299)   Orange Road      North side from Kimball Avenue to westerly
corporate limits (Ord. #4002, 1/18/94)
   (300)   Oregon Street      East side from East Ridgeway Avenue to Easton
Avenue; west side from Easton Avenue to Williston Avenue (Ord. #4590, 12/16/02)
   (301)   Oriole Avenue      South side from Black Hawk Road to Wren Road
   (302)   Paige Drive      Both sides from Holly to Sonja (Ord. #3277, 5/16/
83)
   (303)   Palmer Drive      South side from Knox Street to Hale Street; north
side from Park View Boulevard to Knox Street; north side in 200 block
   (304)   Park Avenue Bridge   Northwest and southeast sides of said bridge
   (305)   Park Ave. (E)      Southeast side from Water Street to Sycamore
Street; northwest side in 200 block; northwest and southeast sides in 300 block
   (306)   Park Ave. (W)   Northwest side from Cedar Street to Wellington
Street; southeast side from Cedar Street to Commercial Street; southeast side
from Washington Street to Wellington Street
   (307)   Park Lane      Southwest side in 600 block; northeast side from
Fairlane to Kimball Avenue; south side from Kimball to Colby (Ord. #4462, 3/26/
01)
   (308)   Park Road      Northerly and southerly sides from Burton Avenue to
Fairview Avenue; both sides from Fairview Avenue to Broadway Street; south side
from Utica Street to Broadway Street; north side from Columbia Street to
Broadway Street (2000 Rev.)
   (309)   Parker Street      South side from Sherman Avenue to Burton Avenue;
north side from E. 4th Street to Sherman Avenue; north side from Avon Street to
Burton Avenue; and north side from Leonard to Longfellow (Ord. #3429, 4/7/86)
   (310)   Patton Street      South side from W. 9th Street to Oregon Street
   (311)   Pearl Lane      East and north sides from Wildwood Road to Joan
Drive
   (312)   Pheasant Lane      East side from Rachael to Haines
   (313)   Pine Street      North side from Fremont Street to Walnut Street
   (314)   Pleasant Street      North side from Western Avenue to W. 6th
Street; south side from Western Avenue to W. 5th Street
   (315)   Pleasant Valley   Both sides from Letsch Road to end of street ('91
Rev.)
   (316)   Plymouth Avenue   South side from Oregon Street to LaPorte Road
   (317)   Polk Street      South side from Idaho Street to Nevada Street
   (318)   Poplar Street      North side from Maplewood Street to Riverside
Drive; north side from Oakland to Riverside
   (319)   Progress Avenue   East and west side from Highway 218 to Acorn Lane
and west side from University Avenue to Sager Avenue
   (320)   Quincy Street      North side from E. 4th Street to N. Barclay (Ord.
#3137, 4/13/81)
   (321)   Rachael Street      North side from Kimball to Colby; south side
from South Hills to Colby Street (Ord. #3137, 4/13/81)
   (322)   Rainbow Drive   Northerly and southerly sides from West Conger
Street to westerly corporate limits
   (323)   Ralston Road      North side from E. 4th Street to Highway 63
   (324) Ranchero Road   Southwest side from Highway 63 to one-half (1/2) mile
southeast of Highway 63; southwest side from Highway 63 to 255 feet northwest
of Highway 63; north and northeast side from Highway 63 to the westerly city
limits (Ord. #4316, 7/20/98; Ord. #4430, 8/21/00; Ord. #4437, 9/18/00)
   (325)   Randall Street      South side from Virden Street to Norimer Street
   (326)   Randolph Street   Northeast side from W. 5th to W. 9th; west side
from W. 9th to E. Ridgeway; north side from W. Mullan Avenue to W. 3rd Street
(Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; Ord. #3729, 7/16/90)
   (327)   Rath         South side from Vinton to Dunham Place (Ord. #3277, 5/
16/83)
   (328)   Ravenwood Circle   East side (Ord. #3247, 11/15/82)
   (329)   Reber Avenue      South side from Sullivan Avenue to Fletcher Avenue
   (330)   Reed Street      West side from Conger Street to Illinois Central
Railroad tracks and from West Louise Street to West Dale Street
   (331) Rhey Street      West side from Lafayette Street to dead end in 600
block; West side of the 700 block of Rhey Street (Ord. #4187, 8/19/96; Ord.
#5110 4/2/12)
   (332)   Richland      North side from Progress Avenue to Midway Drive
   (333)   Ricker Street      North side from E. 4th to Hewitt Street (Ord.
#3277, 5/16/83)
   (334)   Ridgemont Road   North and south sides from Ansborough Avenue to
Inverness Road
   (335)   Ridgeview Ct.      Both sides from West Fourth street to Kent Circle
   (336)   Ridgeway Ave. (E)   North and south sides from Kimball Avenue to
LaPorte Road
   (337)   Ridgeway Ave. (W)   North and south sides from Kimball Avenue to the
westerly city limits (Ord. #3671, 10/16/89)
   (338)   Ridgeway Ct.      North side from Kent Circle to West Fourth Street
   (339)   Riehl Street      South side from Burton Avenue to Riverside Drive;
north side from Lincoln Street to Columbia; north side from Broadway to Burton
Avenue (Ord. #3470, 2/9/87; Ord. #4333, 12/14/98)
   (340)   River Road      Both sides from Mullan Avenue to Conger Street (Ord.
#3277, 5/16/83)
   (341)   Riverside Dr.      West and northwest sides from East Conger Street
to Longfellow Avenue
   (342)   Robin Road      South side from Black Hawk Road to Scott Avenue
   (343)   Rock Island Ave.   North side from Vaughn Street to Magnolia Parkway
   (344)   Roosevelt St.      North side from Milwaukee to Ogden (Ord. #3137,
4/13/81)
   (345)   Rosebud Avenue   West side from W. Mitchell Avenue to Frederick
Avenue
   (346)   Russell Road      West side from W. Ridgeway Avenue to Meadow Lane
   (347)   Ruth Street      Southwest side from Vinton Street to Dunham Place
   (348)   Sager Avenue      Northwest and southeast sides from Highway 218 to
Eleanor Drive; north side from University to the westerly end of said street
   (349)   St. Albans St.      Southeast side from Park Road to Lincoln Street
(Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (350)   St. Andrews Ave.   East side from Downing Avenue to Sager Avenue
   (351)   St. Francis Dr.   East and northeast sides from W. 9th Street to
Wildwood; west and southwest side from W. 9th Street to San Marnan Drive (Ord.
#3114, 11/24/80; Ord. #3137, 4/13/81; Ord. #4107, 7/10/95)
   (352)   San Souci Drive   Both sides from the southerly side of 100 San
Souci Drive to Conger Street
   (353)   San Marnan Access Rd.   West side from Penneys Street to Flammang
Drive (Ord. #3375, 11/13/84)
   (354)   San Marnan Drive   Both sides from Ansborough Avenue to Penneys
Street (Ord. #3510, 10/19/87)
   (355)   Saxon Street      Both sides from East Fourth Street to a public
alley to the west; south side from Clay Street to Iowa Street (Ord. #3938, 4/
26/93)
   (356)   Scott Avenue      East side from Flower Street to Rush Street
   (357)   Sears Drive      Both sides from San Marnan Drive to Camelot Drive
(Ord. #3235, 8/9/82; Ord. #4557, 6/10/02)
   (358)   Second St. (E)      Two zones on southeast side in 400 block;
northwest side in 200 block
   (359)   Second St. (W)   Southeast side from Moir Street to Sullivan Avenue;
northwest side from Sullivan Avenue to Wellington Street; northwest side from
Randolph Street to Commercial Street; southeast side from Commercial Street to
Cedar Street (Ord. #5171, 8/26/13).
   (360)   Sergeant Road      Both sides from the southerly city limits to
University Avenue (Ord. #3664, 9/25/89)
   (361)   Seventh St. (E)   Southeast side from Walnut Street to Mulberry
Street; northwest side from Mulberry Street to Water Street
   (362)   Seventh St. (W)   Southeast side from Locke Avenue to Washington
Street; northwest side from South Street to Commercial Street
   (363)   Shady Lane      South side from Ardmore Street to Maxwell Street
   (364)   Shaulis Road      Both sides from Hammond Avenue to 800 feet east of
Hess Road; south side from Eldora Road to Sergeant Road (U.S. 63) (Ord. #3182,
12/21/81; Ord. #3641, 4/17/89)
   (365)   Sheerer Street      East side in the 900 block and west side from
University access road in a southerly direction 50 feet (Ord. #3133, 4/6/81)
   (366)   Sheffield      West side from Regal to Easton (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (367)   Sherman Avenue   West side from East Parker Street to East Donald
Street
   (368)   Shilliam Avenue   South side from Barclay Street to Mobile Street
   (369)   Sixth Street Bridge   Both sides from Commercial Street to Water
Street (Ord. #3395, 6/17/85)
   (370)   Sixth Street (E)   West side from bridge to Lafayette Street (Ord.
#4166, 5/13/96)
   (371)   Sixth Street (W)   North and northwest side from Sixth Street bridge
to Grant Avenue; north and northeast side from the Sixth Street bridge to
Commercial Street; from alley in 300 block of West Sixth to southbound
Washington Street; southeast side from Grant Avenue to Byron Avenue; northwest
side from Locust Street to Pleasant Street; northwest side from Hawthorne
Avenue to Byron Avenue; northwest side in 200 block; east side from Byron
Avenue to Locke Avenue (Ord. #4002, 1/18/94; Ord. #4128, 9/18/95; Ord. #5413,
8/14/17)
   (372)   Smith Street      North side from Lane Street to Cherry Street
   (373)   Soccer Complex Access   Both sides from Dewitt Road to dead end of
Soccer Complex Access (Ord. #4435, 9/11/00)
   (374)   Solar         Westerly side from Black Hawk Road to Lunar
   (375)   South Street      Northeast side from W. Mullan Avenue to W. 9th
Street; southwest side from W. 9th Street to W. 11th Street; southwest side
from Mullan Avenue to W. 1st Street (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; Ord. #4166, 5/13/96;
Ord. #4186, 8/19/96)
   (376)   Southbrooke Dr.   South and east side from San Marnan Drive to W.
9th Street (Ord. #4088, 4/10/95)
   (377)   Southtown Drive   North side from Hammond Avenue to Alexandra Drive
(Ord. #4143, 12/18/95)
   (378)   Southview Drive   North side from Idaho Street to Spring View Street
   (379)   Stanley Court      East side
   (380)   State Street      Repealed by Ord. #3253; 12/28/82
   (381)   Steely Street      West side from Independence Avenue to Railroad
Avenue
   (382)   Stratford Avenue   South side from Stephan Avenue to Englewood
Avenue
   (383)   Sullivan Avenue   West side from Kingsley Avenue to Summit Avenue;
east and southeast sides from Reber Avenue to Elmwood Drive
   (384)   Summit Avenue   South side from Moir to Fletcher; north side from
Moir to Sullivan (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (385)   Sumner Street      South side from East Fourth Street to Mobile
Street; north side from East Fourth Street to Linn Street (Ord. #4032, 8/8/94)
   (386)   Sunnyside Avenue   East and west sides from Highway 218 to Leland
Avenue; east side from Leland Avenue to West Mullan Avenue
   (387)   Sunset Road      Southeast side from Fletcher to Clarissa (Ord.
#3277, 5/16/83)
   (388)   Sycamore Street   Both sides from Thompson Avenue to the
northwesterly end of Sycamore Street; southwest side from E. 6th to E. 7th;
northeast side from Elm to Division; southwest side from Division to Dunham
Place; southwest side from E. 1st to E. 2nd; northeast side in 300, 400, 500,
700 and 1400 blocks; southwest side in 500 and 600 blocks (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83;
Ord. #4378, 8/23/99; Ord. #4539, 2/25/02; Ord. #4726, 9/20/04)
   (389)   Sylvia Avenue      East side from Downing Avenue to University
Avenue
   (390)   Tenth Street (E)   Northwest side from Franklin Street to Water
Street
   (391)   Tenth Street (W)   Southeast side from Washington Street to
Commercial Street
   (392)   Terrace Drive      South side from Baltimore Street to Kimball
Avenue ('91 Rev.)
   (393)   Third Street (E)   Both sides from Mulberry to Franklin; both sides
from Sycamore to south end of street (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (394)   Third Street (W)   Northwest side from Washington Street to South
Street; north side from Sullivan Avenue to Kimball Avenue; southeast side in
200 and 400 blocks; southeast side from Washington Street to Bluff Street; west
side in the 1100 block from Baltimore going north to the alley; east side in
the 1200 block from Baltimore going south to the alley (Ord. #4951, 7/27/09)
   (395)   Thirteenth St. (W)   Both sides from Black Hawk Street to Jefferson
Street
   (396)   Thompson Avenue   Southeast side from Franklin Street to Sycamore
Street
   (397)   Thorndale Avenue   West side from Hartman to University access road
(Ord. #3137, 4/13/81)
   (398)   Tiffany Place      Both sides from Sager to south end of street
(Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; Ord. #4067, 1/3/95)
   (399)   Tillsbury Road   West side from Sager to end of street (Ord. #3137,
4/13/81)
   (399a)   Titan Trail      Northwest side of W. Ridgeway Avenue to Greyhound
Drive (Ord. #5562, 6/15/20)
   (400)   University Ave.   Northerly and southerly sides from W. Mullan
Avenue to westerly corporate limits (Ord. #4011, 4/11/94)
   (401)   University Ave. Access Roads      Northerly and southerly sides from
Ansborough Avenue to Progress Avenue except for zones on the north side of the
south access road between Holiday Station intersection and Sheerer Avenue (Ord.
#4011, 4/11/94)
   (402)   Upton Avenue      North side from Ansborough Avenue to Valley Drive;
south side from Ansborough Avenue to Magnolia Parkway
   (403)   Valdez Drive      South side from Edgewood Drive to the west
   (404)   Vaughn Street      West side from Westfield to Falls; east side from
Westfield to tracks (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (405) Vermont Street   Northeast side from W. 3rd Street to W. 5th Street;
east side from W. 5th  Street to W. Mitchell Avenue (Ord. #4316, 7/20/98)
   (406)   Vine Street      North side from Idaho Street to Steely Street;
south side from Mobile Street to Walnut Street; north side from Mobile Street
to S. Barclay Street ('91 Rev.; Ord. #4434, 8/28/00)
   (407)   Vinton Street      East and west sides from northerly end of 18th
Street Bridge to Independence Avenue; west side from Independence Avenue to
Glenwood Street
   (408)   Virden Street      East side from Highway 218 to Randall Street
   (409) Vold Drive      Both sides in the 200 block (Ord. #4878, 8/20/07)
   (410)   Wagner Road      Both sides from Broadway Street to the northerly
corporate limits (Ord. #3458, 10/27/86)
   (411)   Walker Street      South side from Longfellow to the end of the Soft
Ball Diamond; north side from Longfellow to Cedar Bend (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (412)   Wallgate Avenue   East side from Downing Avenue to Main Street
   (413)   Walnut Street      Northeast side from E. 7th to E. 4th; southwest
side from E. Park to S. Barclay; northeast side in 200 block; southwest side in
300 block (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; Ord. #3939, 4/26/93)
   (414)   Washington St.   Southwest and northeast sides from W. Mullan Avenue
to LaPorte Road
   (415)   W. Washington   Both sides from Highway 63 to the westerly corporate
limits (Ord. #4120, 8/7/95)
   (416)   Water Street      Northeast side from E. 5th to E. 4th; south side
in the 700 block (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; Ord. #5003, 9/7/10)
   (416a)   WCFN Drive      Northwest Side from Longfellow to W. Airline
Highway (Ord. #5221, 6/2/14)
   (417)   Webster Street   South side from Ankeny Street to North Barclay
Street (Ord. #3695, 1/22/90; Ord. #3763, 1/22/91)
   (418)   Wellington Court   Southwest and northeast sides from E. 4th Street
to W. 5th Street
   (419)   Wellington St. (W)   South side from W. Mullan Avenue to Belmont
Street; northeast side and southwest side in 400 block; two zones in southwest
side in 700 block; north side in 400 and 500 blocks
   (420)   Wellington St.      Northeast side from W. Mullan to W. 2nd;
northeast side from W. 5th to Randolph (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; Ord. #4837, 9/25/
06)
   (421)   Wendy Drive      West side from Olympic Drive to Rachael Street
   (422)   Western Avenue   Southwest side from Elmwood Street to Johnson
Street; west side from Pleasant Street to Byron Avenue; northeast side from W.
5th Street to Pleasant Street; northeast side from Elmwood Street to West
Mullan Avenue
   (423) Westfield Avenue   Both sides from West Jefferson Street to Conger
Street (Ord. #3417, 12/23/85; Ord. #4002, 1/18/94; Ord. #4309, 6/22/98; Ord.
#4968, 10/12/09)
   (424)   Westland Avenue   East side from Sager to Downing (Ord. #3277, 5/16/
83)
   (425)   Whittier Street   East side from Lindale to Oakland
   (426)   Wilbur         East side from Falls to Hartman; west side from
Hartman to University Access (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (427)   Wilby         South side from Beech to Linden (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (428)   Wildwood Road   South side from Hammond Avenue to St. Francis Drive
   (429)   Williston Avenue   North and south sides from W. 18th Street to W.
4th Street; both sides from Bayard to Kimball Avenue (Ord. #4002, 1/18/94)
   (430)   Windsor Drive   Northeast side from Ivanhoe Road to Prospect
Boulevard
   (431)   Wisconsin Street   East side from E. Ridgeway Avenue to Washington
Street
   (432)   Woodbridge St.   East side from Maynard Street to Shady Lane
   (433)   Woodlawn Road   West side from Derbyshire Road to Prospect Blvd.
   (434)   Woodstock Road   West side from Midlothian Boulevard to W. Ridgeway
Avenue
   (435)   Wren Road      West side from Lark Lane to Downing Avenue (Ord.
#3277, 5/16/83)
   (436)   Wyoming Street   East side from Franklin Street to Lafayette Street
(Ord. #4011, 4/11/94)
   (437)   Zelmar Drive      East side from Joy Drive to Maxwell Street
Acadia Street (Repealed by Ord. #4194, 9/16/96)
Belmont Avenue (Deleted by 2000 Rev.)
Main Street (Deleted by 2000 Rev.)
McKinley Street (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; deleted by 2000 Rev.)
Menges Street (Deleted by 2000 Rev.)
Peoria Street (Ord. #3568, 7/5/88; repealed by Ord. #4599, 3/10/03)
Union Street (Deleted by 2000 Rev.)
Vegas Court (Ord. #4365, 6/28/99; repealed by Ord. #4791, 11/21/05))
      (331)   Rhey Street, West side from Lafayette Street to dead end in 600
block (repealed by Ord. #4187, 8/19/96)
Southeast side from Moir Street to Sullivan Avenue; northwest side from
Sullivan Avenue to Wellington Street; northwest side from Randolph Street to
Cedar Streets; southeast side from Commercial Street to Cedar Street (repealed
by Ord. #5171, 8/26/13)
Northeast and southwest sides from Osage Avenue to Vinton Street; northeast
side from Vinton Street to East Eleventh Street; southwest side from East
Seventh Street to East Sixth Street; southwest side from East Park Avenue to
East Mullan Avenue (repealed by Ord. #5180, 10/7/13)
      (7) Aladdin Street - West side from Stratford Avenue to Upton Avenue
(Ord. #5213, 4/28/14)
      (247)   Magnolia Parkway   East side from Main Street to Downing Avenue;
west side in the 700 block (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83) (deleted by Ord. 5316, 11/2/
15)
      (60)   Cedar Street      Northeast side from W. 4th Street to W. 2nd
Street and southwest side from West Park Avenue to W. 2nd Street; southwest
side from W. 6th Street to W. 5th Street; both sides from W. 4th Street to W.
5th Street ('91 Rev.) (deleted by Ord. #5385, 2/6/17)
SEC. 552.   NO PARKING BETWEEN SIGNS552.   NO PARKING BETWEEN SIGNS
When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between signs designating "No Parking Between Signs" upon any of the streets or
portions thereof as named herein:
   STREET      BLOCK NUMBER AND SIDE OF STREET WHERE PARKING PROHIBITED
   (1)   Black Hawk Road   West end of 200 block cul de sac ('91 Rev.)
   (2)   Bratnober Street   Both sides in the 500 block ('91 Rev.; 2000 Rev.)
   (4)   Eleventh St. (W)   East side in the 1700 block
   (4a)   Fifth Street (W)   41 feet northbound of the southeast side of 1200
block of West 5th and continuing 97 feet northbound of the southeast side of
the 1100 block of West 5th Street (Ord. #5132, 9/4/12)
   (5)   Hawthorne      North side in the 1900 block (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (6)   Heartland Hills   West Side of the 1200 block (Ord. #4002, 1/18/94;
Ord. #4756, 2/21/05; Ord. #5307, 10/5/15)
   (7)   Heath Street      East Side of the 1900 block of Heath Street (Ord.
#4531, 12/10/01; deleted by Ord. #4863, 4/2/07) (Ord. #5257 11/24/14)
   (8)   Jefferson Street   Southwest side in the 2200 block
   (9)   Leavitt Street      Southwest side in the 1000 block
   (10)   Logan Avenue      East side in the 700 block ('95 Rev.)
   (11)   Longfellow      West side in the 1300 block (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (12)   Martin Road      North side in the 200 block (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (13)   Mulberry Street   Southwest side in the 300 block; northeast side in
the 1400 block (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (14)   Nevada      East side in the 600 block (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (15)   Prospect Blvd.   Northwest side in the 200 block
   (16)   Rachael Street      North side in the 300 and 400 blocks; and North
side in the 400 and 500 blocks. (Ord. #4327, 11/9/98; amd. Ord. #5757, 4/15/24)
   (17)   Second Street (E)   Southeast side in the 500 block (Ord. #3277, 5/
16/83; 2000 Rev.)
   (18)   South Street      Southwest side in the 400 block; northeast side in
the 1200 block (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (19)   Southbrooke Drive   North side in the 100, 200 and 300 blocks (Ord.
#4551, 5/13/02; Ord. #4843, 11/6/06)
   (20)   St. Francis Drive   East side in the 2700 block ('91 Rev.)
   (21)   Sycamore Street   South side in the 1100 block; southwest side in the
1300 block; north side in the 1800 block (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; Ord. #4940, 5/4/
09)
   (22)   Third Street (E)   Northwest side in the 200 block
   (23)   Third Street (W)   Northwest side in the 1000 block
   (24)   Virden         West side in the 100 block (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (25)   Wellington Street   Northeast side in the 400 block
*Adams Street   -North side in 200 block ('91 Rev.; deleted by 2000 Rev.)
*Bluff Street-Northeast side in the 200 and 400 blocks (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83;
deleted by 2000 Rev.)
*Cutler Street-Twenty (20) feet in front of 226 Cutler Street (Ord. #3978, 10/
11/93; repealed by Ord. #4645, 9/8/03)
*Fourth Street (E)-East side in the 1000 block (deleted by 2000 Rev.)
*Fourth Street (W)-Northwest side in the 300 block (deleted by 2000 Rev.)
*Independence Ave.-North side in the 100 block (deleted by 2000 Rev.)
*Linn Street-East side in the 100 block (deleted by 2000 Rev.)
*Park Road-North side in the 500 block (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; deleted by 2000
Rev.)
*Randolph Street-Southwest side in the 600 block (Deleted by '91 Rev.)
*Walnut-Northeast side in the 300 block (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; deleted by 2000
Rev.)
*(6)   Heartland Hills   West side in the 900 and 1200 blocks (Ord. #4002, 1/
18/94; Ord.#4756, 2/21/05) deleted by Ord. #5307, 10/5/15)
SEC. 553.   NO PARKING HERE TO CORNER553.   NO PARKING HERE TO CORNER
When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park any vehicle
between the corner and a sign designating "No Parking Here to Corner" upon any
of the streets or portions thereof as named herein:
   STREET      SIDE OF STREET AND BLOCK WHERE PARKING IS PROHIBITED
   (1)   Acadia Street      South side in the 100 block in an easterly
direction from Kimball Avenue (Ord. #4626, 7/14/03)
   (2)   Adams Street      South side in the 200 block in an easterly direction
from E. 4th Street to the driveway (Ord. #4693, 5/10/04)
   (3)   Allen         Northeast side in the 100 block in an easterly direction
from Mullan; northeast side in the 600 block in a northwesterly direction from
W. 5th; northeast side in the 700 block in a southeasterly direction from W.
5th (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (4)   Almond Street      North side in the 300 block in an easterly
direction from Highway 63
   (4a)   Alta Vista Avenue   South side in a westerly direction from Idaho
Street (Ord. #4955, 8/24/09)
   (5)   Amity         Both sides in the 100 block in a northerly direction
from Rainbow (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (6)   Ankeny      West side in the 400 block in a southerly direction from
Newell (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (7)   Ansborough      West side in the 1900 block in a southerly direction
from Sergeant Rd. (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (8)   Ash Street      West side in the 800 block in a northerly direction
from Cottage Street (Ord. #4597, 3/3/03)
   (8a)   Baltimore Street   West side of the 2400 block, 25 feet in a
Southerly direction from East Ridgeway (Ord. #5240, 9/22/14)
   (9)   Bayard Street      Northeast side in the 400 block in a southeasterly
direction from W. 4th; northeast side in the 500 block in a northwesterly
direction from W. 4th; north side in a westerly direction from W. 5th; west
side in a southerly direction from Williston Avenue; west side in the 1000
block in a northerly direction from Byron (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; Ord. #4002, 1/
18/94; '95 Rev.)
   (10)   Bertch Avenue   North side in the 100 block in an easterly direction
from Kimball Avenue; north side in the 800 block in an easterly direction from
W. 6th Street ('91 Rev.)
   (11)   Bethel Street      East side in the 3000 block in a southerly
direction from Ridgeway Avenue ('91 Rev.)
   (12)   Bismark      South side in the 500 block in a westerly direction from
Magnolia Parkway; north side in the 800 block in an easterly direction from
Ansborough Avenue (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; Ord. #4156, 3/4/96)
   (13)   Black Hawk      Southwest side in the 1700 block in a southeasterly
direction from W. 15th (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (14)   Bluff Street      Northeast side in the 600 block in a southeasterly
direction from W. 4th Street
   (15)   Brookeridge      North side in a westerly direction from Canterbury
Court; north side in a westerly direction from Kimball Access Road (Ord. #4002,
1/18/94; #4270, 12/8/97)
   (16)   Burton Avenue   East side in the 700 block in a northerly direction
from Conger Street; east side in the 900 block in a northerly direction from
Dawson Street; east side in the 1200 block in a northerly direction from West
Parker Street (Ord. #4972, 10/26/09)
   (17)   Byron         North side in the 1500 block in an easterly direction
from W. 11th; north side in an easterly direction from Kimball Avenue (Ord.
#3277, 5/16/83; Ord. #4365, 6/28/99)
   (18)   Carolina St.      South side in the 300 block in a westerly direction
from Kimball; south side in the 400 block in an easterly direction from
Kimball; south side 75 feet east of Hale (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (19)   Cataract Ave.      South side in the 300 block in an easterly
direction from Edgemont ('91 Rev.)
   (19a)   Cedar Bend Street   North side of Virginia street in an easterly
direction (Ord. #5604, 6/21/21)
   (20)   Clay         East side in the 100 bock in a northerly direction from
Walnut (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (20a)   Clough Street      West side in a southerly direction from West
Third Street; and East side in a northerly direction from West Third Street.
(Ord. 5318, 11/23/15)
   (21)   Cloverdale      West side in the 500 block in a northerly direction
from Donald Street ('91 Rev.)
   (22)   Commercial      Northeast side in the 300 block in an easterly
direction from W. 2nd Street; southwest side in the 300 block in a
southeasterly direction from W. 3rd Street; southwest side in the 1500 block in
a southeasterly direction from W. 13th Street; southwest side in the 1600 block
in a southeasterly direction from W. 14th Street (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; '91
Rev.)
   (23)   E. Conger St.      North side in the 400 block in an easterly
direction from Broadway Street; south side in the 500 block in a westerly
direction from Broadway Street
   (24)   Cornwall      North side in the 1100 block in an easterly direction
from W. 9th Street; south side in the 600 block in an easterly direction from
Baltimore; south side in the 500 block in a westerly direction from Baltimore;
south side in the 100 block in an easterly direction from Kimball (Ord. #3277,
5/16/83; '91 Rev.)
   (24a)   Crestline Avenue   East side of the 2600 block of Crestine Avenue in
a Southwestrly direction (Ord. #5139, 12/3/12)
   (25)   Dale Street      North side in the 500 block in an easterly direction
from Logan (Ord. #4002, 1/18/94)
   (26)   Dane Street      South side in the 400 block in an easterly direction
from Highway 63
   (27)   Dawson Street      South side in the 100 block in a westerly
direction from Cutler Street (Ord. #4884, 9/24/07)
   (28)   Desoto Avenue   East side in a northerly direction from Rainbow Drive
('95 Rev.)
   (29)   W. Donald St.      North side in the 700 block in a westerly
direction from Niles Street (Ord. #3318, 12/19/83; '91 Rev.)
   (30)   Doreen Avenue   East side in a southerly direction from Sager Avenue
('95 Rev.)
   (31)   Downing      South side in the 900 block in a westerly direction from
Ansborough Avenue; South side in the 800 block in an easterly direction from
Ansborough Avenue (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; Ord. #5332, 2/15/16)
   (32)   Easton Avenue   South side in the 1500 block in an easterly direction
from W. 11th Street (Ord. #4849, 11/20/06; Ord. #4882, 9/24/07)
   (33)   Edgemont      East side in the 2200 block in a southerly direction
from Cataract Avenue ('91 Rev.)
   (34)   Edwards      North side in the 400 block in an easterly direction
from Broadway Street; north side in the 400 block in a westerly direction from
Columbia Street (Ord. #4126, 9/11/95; Ord. #4323, 10/19/98)
   (35)   E. Eighth St.      Southeast side in the 100 block in a southwesterly
direction from Sycamore (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (36)   W. Eighth St.      West side in a northerly direction from Commercial
Street (Ord. #4406, 2/21/2000)
   (37)   W. 11th St.      East side in the 1700 block in a southerly direction
from Easton Avenue; east side in a northerly direction from Ridgeway Avenue
('95 Rev.)
   (38)   Elm Street      West side in the 200 block in a northerly direction
from Sycamore Street
   (39)   Elmwood      South side in the 100 block in a westerly direction from
Locust; south side in the 200 block in an easterly direction from Sullivan
(Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (40)   Eureka Street      North side 150 feet West of Baltimore
   (41)   Fay Street      West side in a northerly direction from Lafayette
Street ('95 Rev.)
   (42)   E. Fifth St.      Southeast side in the 500 block in a southwesterly
direction from Walnut Street; northwest side in the 500 block in a
southwesterly direction from Walnut Street; southeast side in the 100 block in
a northeasterly direction from Water Street
   (43)   W. Fifth St.      Northeast side in a northerly direction from South
Street; both sides in the 600 block in a northeasterly direction from Randolph;
southeast side in the 700 block in a northerly direction from Wellington;
southeast side in the 800 block in a northwesterly direction from Grant;
northwest side in the 800 block in a northeasterly direction from Grant; both
sides in the 900 block in a northeasterly direction from Allen; southeast side
in the 900 block in a southwesterly direction from Grant; southeast side in the
1000 block in a southwesterly direction from Allen and northeasterly direction
from Locust; west side in the 1100 block in a northerly direction from Western;
southeast side in the 1100 block in a southwesterly direction from Locust and
in a northeasterly direction from Western; southeast side in the 1200 block in
a northeasterly direction from Baltimore and in a southwesterly direction from
Western; southeast side in the 1300 block in a northeasterly direction from
Denver and in a southwesterly direction from Baltimore; southeast side in the
1400 block in northeasterly and southwesterly directions from Pleasant and in a
southwesterly direction from Denver and in a northeasterly direction from
Vermont; southeast side in the 1500 block in a southwesterly direction from
Vermont and in a northeasterly direction from Bayard (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; '91
Rev.; Ord. #4002, 1/18/94; Ord. #4143, 12/18/95)
   (44)   Forest Avenue      North side in the 100 block in an easterly
direction from Kimball Avenue ('91 Rev.)
   (45)   E. Fourth Streeth   East side in the 2000 block in a southerly
direction from Charles Street; east side in the 700 block in a southerly
direction from Pine Street; west side in the 1700 block in a southerly
direction, north Newell Street.    (Ord. #4568, 8/12/02; Ord. #5552, 3/23/2020)
   (45a)   W. Fourteenth St.   West side of West 14th Street in a southerly
direction from Black Hawk Street (Ord. #5334, 2/15/16)
   (46)   W. Fourth St.      Southeast side in the 200 block in a southerly
direction from Commercial Street; northwest side in the 500 block in a
southwesterly direction from Washington Street; southeast side in the 600 block
in a southerly direction from South Street; southeast side in the 700 block in
a northerly direction from Wellington Street; northwest side in the 700 block
in a northerly direction from Wellington Street; northwest side in the 800
block in a southwesterly direction from Grant and in a northeasterly direction
from Allen; northwest side in the 900 block in a northerly direction from
Locust Street and in a southwesterly direction from Allen; northwest side in
the 1000 block in a southerly direction from Locust Street and in a
northeasterly direction from Western; northwest side in the 1100 block in a
southwesterly direction from Western and in a northeasterly direction from
Baltimore; northwest side in the 1200 block in a southwesterly direction from
Baltimore and in a northeasterly direction from Denver; northwest side in the
1300 block in a southwesterly direction from Denver and in a northeasterly
direction from Vermont; northwest side in the 1400 block in a southwesterly
direction from Vermont and in a northeasterly direction from Bayard; northwest
side in the 1500 block in a southwesterly direction from Bayard and in a
northeasterly direction from Kimball (Ord. #4002, 1/18/94; Ord. #4019, 6/13/94)
   (47)   Glenwood      Northside in the 800 block in a easterly direction from
Linden; North side in the 800 block in a Westerly direction from Mohawk Street;
North side in the 900 block in a Easterly direction from Mohawk Street (Ord.
#5367, 9/12/16)
   (47a)   Golden Valley Dr.   South side in the 1600 block in a southwesterly
direction from Greenbrier Road (Ord. #5081, 10/17/11)
   (48)   Graceline Blvd.   West side in the 100 block in a southerly direction
from W. 4th Street
   (49)   Grant Street      Northeast side in the 1000 block in a northwesterly
direction from W. 9th Street
   (50)   Haines Avenue   South side in an easterly direction from Colby Road
('95 Rev.)
   (50a)   Hanna Blvd.      West side in a southerly direction from Rainbow
Drive; east side in a northerly direction from Rainbow Drive (Ord. #5017, 10/
18/10)
   (50b)   Harrison Street   Easterly direction from Logan Avenue and a
westerly direction from the alley way in the 200 block of Harrison Street (Ord.
#5095, 2/27/12)
   (51)   Hartman      South side in the 900 block in a westerly direction from
Ansborough (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (52)   Hawthorne      North side in the 100 block in an easterly direction
from Kimball Avenue ('91 Rev.)
   (53)   Heath Street      East side in a northerly direction from West Donald
Street (Ord. #4892, 11/19/07)
   (53a)   Heartland Hills Dr.   West side of the 1000 block of Heartland Hills
Drive. (Ord. #5118, 5/29/12)
   (54)   High Street      West side in the 200 block in a northerly direction
from Vine Street
   (55)   Hillcrest      East and west side 150 feet south of Ridgeway
   (55a)   Hummingbird Circle   The North Side of the 1500 block, 60 feet in an
Easterly direction from Mockingbird Lane direction from Rainbow Drive (Ord.
#5733, 11/6/23)
   (56)   Idaho Street      West side in the 1100 block in a northerly
direction from Independence Avenue
   (57)   Independence Ave.   North side in the 100 block in an easterly
direction from South Barclay Street and in a westerly direction from South
Barclay Street and Irving; north side in the 200 block in an easterly direction
from Irving and in a westerly direction from Lane; north side in the 300 block
in an easterly direction from Lane; north side in the 400 block in a westerly
direction from Cherry; north side in the 500 block in an easterly direction
from Cherry, in a westerly direction from Mobile, in an easterly direction from
Mobile, in an easterly direction from Florence, in a westerly direction from
Florence, and in a westerly direction from Vinton; north side in the 1000 block
in an easterly direction from Steely and in a westerly direction from Highland;
north side in the 1100 block in an easterly direction from Highland and in a
westerly direction from Arizona; north side in the 1200 block in an easterly
direction from Arizona (Ord. #4002, 1/18/94)
   (58)   Iowa Street      East side 150 feet south of Pine
   (59)   Jefferson St.      200 block from W. 1st Street to west of driveway.
(Ord. #5638, 3/21/22)
   (60)   Jodi Drive      North side in a westerly direction from Hearland
Hills (Ord. #4503, 8/27/01)
   (61)   Kimball      East side in the 400 block in a northerly direction from
W. 3rd (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (62)   Lafayette St.      Northeast side in the 300 block in a northwesterly
direction from E. 3rd; northeast side in the 900 block in a southeasterly
direction from E. 7th; northeast side in the 1200 block in a northwesterly
direction from E. 11th; north side of the street in an easterly direction from
Utica. (Ord. #5511, 9/3/19)
    (62A)   Lafayette St.      Southwest side in the 900 block in a
southeasterly direction from E. 7th Street (Ord. #5129, 8/27/12)
   (63)   Lane         West side in the 100 block in a northerly direction from
Lafayette; west side in the 400 block in a northerly direction from
Independence (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (64) Lester   South side in an easterly direction from East Fourth Street
(Ord. #4365, 6/28/99)
   (65)   Lime         North side in the 500 block in an easterly direction
from Walnut; north side in the 700 block from the tennis courts to High Street
(Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; Ord. #4434, 8/28/00)
   (66)   Linden Avenue   East side in the 100 block in a northerly direction
from Lafayette; west side in the 500 block in a northerly direction from
Franklin; east side in the 600 block in a southerly direction from Courtland
(Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; '91 Rev.)
   (67)   Locke Avenue      North side in the 1000 block in an easterly
direction from W. 9th Street (Ord. #4002, 1/18/94)
   (67b)   Locust Avenue   North side in the 100 block in a southeasterly
direction from West Mullan Avenue; northeast side of the 400 block in a
southeasterly direction from W. 3rd Street; northeast side in the 400 block in
a northwesterly direction from W. 4th Street; northeast side in the 500 block
in a southeasterly direction from W. 4th Street (Amended by Ord. #5460, 7/16/
18)
   (68)   Lorraine Avenue   North side in a westerly direction from LaPorte
Road. (Ord. #5459, 7/16/18)
   (68a)   E. Louise St.      North side in the 400 block in a westerly
direction from E. 4th Street (Ord. #4938, 3/23/09)
   (69)   W. Louise St.      North side in the 100 block in a westerly
direction from Logan Avenue
   (70)    Mark Drive      North side in the 4000 block in a westerly direction
from Heartland Hills Drive (Ord. #4879, 8/27/07)
   (71)   Martin         North side in the 100 block in a westerly direction
from W. 4th (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (72)   Maxwell St.      West side in a northerly direction from Falls Avenue
(Ord. #4138, 11/20/95)
   (73)   McKinley      East side in the 100 block in a northerly direction
from Falls (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (74)   Midway      East side in the 3500 block in a southerly direction from
University
   (75)   Minnesota St.      East side in the 300 block in a southerly
direction from Williston Avenue
   (76)   E. Mitchell Ave.   South side in a westerly direction from Ohio
Street (Ord. #4011, 4/11/94)
   (77)   W. Mitchell Ave.   South side of Mitchell Avenue in the 100 block in
a westerly direction from Kimball Avenue
   (77a)   Mohawk Street   West side in the 100 block in a southerly direction
from Glenwood (Ord. #5019, 11/1/10)
   (78)   Moir         East side in the 400 block in a northerly direction from
W. 3rd (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (79)   Mulberry St.      Both sides in the 00 block in an easterly direction
from Oak; southwest side in the 100 block in a southeasterly direction from
Mullan; northeast side in the 300 block in a northwesterly direction from E.
3rd; south side in the 800 block in a westerly direction from E. 7th; northeast
side in the 900 block in a southeasterly direction from E. 7th (Ord. #3277, 5/
16/83; '91 Rev.)
   (80)   Mullan         South side in the 1100 block in a westerly direction
from Locust; north side in the 1200 block in a westerly direction from Belmont;
south side in the 1200 block in an easterly direction from Norimer (Ord. #3277,
5/16/83; Ord. #4022, 6/27/94)
   (80a)   N. Hackett Road   East side of the 100 block, 50 feet in a northerly
direction from Rainbow Drive. (Ord. #5721, 9/5/23)
   (80b)   Nancy Road      East side of the 800 block in a southerly direction
from Rachael Street. (Ord. #5756, 4/15/24)
   (81)   Nevada Street      East side in the 800 block in a southerly
direction from Franklin (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (82)   Newell         South side in the 700 block in a westerly direction
from Hewitt (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (83)   W. Ninth St.      Both sides in the 2600 block in a northerly
direction from E. Ridgeway; east side in the 2700 block in a southerly
direction from E. Ridgeway; east side in the 2900 block in a northerly
direction from Wisner Drive (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (84)   Oak         Northwest side in the 300 block in a southwesterly
direction from Mulberry; northwest side in the 400 block in a southwesterly
direction from Franklin (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (85)   Oaklawn      West side in the 200 block in a southerly direction from
Leland (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (86)   E. Park Ave.      Northwest side in the 500 block in a southwesterly
direction from Walnut Street
   (87)   Park Lane (W)   North side in the 100 block in a westerly direction
from Brockway Road (Ord. #4226, 4/14/97)
   (88)   Park Road      Northerly side in the 500 block in a westerly
direction from Broadway Street
   (89)   Parker Street      South side in the 100 block in an easterly
direction from Logan; north side in the 100 block in a westerly direction from
Logan; north side in the 500 block in a westerly direction from Broadway (Ord.
#3277, 5/16/83)
   (90)   Pleasant St.      South side in the 800 block in an easterly
direction from W. 6th Street ('91 Rev.)
   (91)   Prospect Blvd.   East and west sides from Ridgeway to first driveway
on east side; east side 50 feet in a northerly direction from Olympic Drive
(Ord. #4998, 7/12/10)
   (92)   Rachael Street      South side 40 feet from Kimball Avenue access
road (Ord. #4478, 5/21/01)
   (93)    Ranchero Road   South side in a southwesterly direction from
Sergeant Road (Ord. #4270, 12/8/97; Ord. #4316, 7/20/98)
   (94)   Randolph St.      East side in the 1300 block 75 feet in a northerly
direction from Leavitt; east side in the 2300 block in a southerly direction
from Mitchell (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (95)   Reber Avenue      North side in an easterly direction from Fletcher
Avenue; north side in a westerly direction from Moir Street (Ord. #4391, 11/1/
99)
   (95a)   Reed Street      East side in a southerly direction from West Dale
Street (Ord. #4960, 9/21/09)
   (96)   Ricker         North side in the 900 block in a westerly direction
from Mobile (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (97)   Riehl Street      South side in the 400 block in an easterly
direction from Broadway Street; south side in the 500 block in a westerly
direction from Broadway Street; south side in the 700 block in an easterly
direction from Ashland (Ord. #4274, 1/20/98)
   (98)   Robin Road      North side in the 1700 block in a westerly direction
from Wren Road (Ord. #3137, 4/13/81; Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (99)   Rock Island Ave.   South side in an easterly direction from Fletcher
Avenue ('95 Rev.)
   (100)   Sager         South side in the 3600 block in an easterly direction
from Tiffany (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (101)   St. Francis Drive   West side in a northerly direction from Wildwood
(Ord. #4002, 1/18/94)
   (102)   Saxon         North side in the 300 block in a westerly direction
from Clay (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (103)   E. Second St.      Southeast side in the 200 block in a
northeasterly direction from Sycamore Street; east side in the 400 block in a
southerly direction from Franklin (Ord. #4002, 1/18/94)
   (104)   Secro         South side in the 1900 block in an easterly direction
from Camelot (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (105)   W. Seventh Street   East side in the 400 block in a northerly
direction from Washington Street
   (106)   Sheerer      West side in the 900 block in a southerly direction
from University Access (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (107)   Sheldon      East side in the 1200 block in a northerly direction
from Downing (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (108)   Sixth St. (W)      Southeast side in the 500 block in a
southwesterly direction from Washington and in a northeasterly direction from
South; southeast side in the 600 block in a southwesterly direction from South
and in a northeasterly direction from Randolph; southeast side in the 700 block
in a southwesterly direction from Randolph; northwest side in the 800 block in
a northeasterly direction from Grant; west side in the 1300 block in a
southerly direction from Williston Avenue (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; '91 Rev.; Ord.
#4002, 1/18/94)
   (109)   South Street      Southwest side in the 300 block in a southeasterly
direction from W. 3rd; southwest side in the 400 block in a northwesterly
direction from W. 3rd; north side in the 1300 block in a westerly direction
from W. 11th (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (110)   South Hills      West side 125 feet south of Ridgeway
   (111)   Southbrook Dr.   North side in the 300 block in a westerly direction
from W. 9th Street (Ord. #4226, 4/14/97)
   (112)   Sunnyside      West side in the 200 block in a southerly direction
from Leland; southwest side in the 400 block in a northwesterly direction from
Mullan (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (113)   Sunset Road      Northwest side in the 200 block in a northeasterly
direction from Hubbard Avenue
   (114)   Sycamore St.      Northeast side in the 00 block in a southeasterly
direction from Thompson; northeast side in the 100 block in a southeasterly
direction from Mullan; northeast side in the 1100 block in a northwesterly
direction from E. 10th; northeast side in the 1200 block in a northwesterly
direction from E. 11th; southwest side in the 1200 block in a southwesterly
direction from E. 11th; northeast side in the 1600 block in a southeasterly
direction from Division; northeast side in the 1600 block in a northwesterly
direction from Vinton; northeast side in the 1700 block in a southeasterly
direction from Vinton (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; Ord. #4731, 9/27/04; Ord. #4783, 9/
12/05)
   (115)   W. Tenth St.      Northwest side in the 400 block in a northeasterly
direction from Washington Street
   (116)   Terrace Dr.      North side in a westerly direction from Baltimore
Street; north side in an easterly direction from Kimball Avenue ('91 Rev.; Ord.
#4365, 6/28/99)
   (117)   E. Third St.      Northwest side in the 200 block in a northeasterly
direction from Sycamore; southeast side in the 300 block in a northeasterly
direction from Franklin; southeast side in the 500 block in a northeasterly
direction from Franklin (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (118) W. Third St.   South side in an easterly direction from Clough Street;
southeast side in the 1000 block in a southwesterly direction from Locust
Street; northwest side in the 900 block in a northeasterly direction from
Locust Street; northwest side in the 600 block in a southwesterly direction
from South Street; southeast side in the 600 block in a southwesterly direction
from South Street; southeast side in the 500 block in a southwesterly direction
from Washington Street; southeast side in the 400 block in a southwesterly
direction from Bluff Street; northwest side in the 400 block in a northeasterly
direction from Washington Street; southeast side in the 300 block in a
southwesterly direction from Jefferson Street (Ord. #4316, 7/20/98)
   (119)   Tiffany      East side in the 1100 block in a southerly direction
from Sager (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (120)   University Avenue
      Access Roads      South access road on the north side in a westerly
direction from Holiday Station intersection; south access road on the north
side in an easterly direction from Sheerer Avenue (Ord. #4011, 4/11/94)
   (121)   Vegas Court      South side for approximately 20 feet off Euclid
Avenue (Ord. #4791, 11/21/05)
   (122)   Vermont St.      West side in a southerly direction from Williston
Avenue ('91 Rev.)
   (122a)   Vincent Road      West side in a southerly direction from Rainbow
Drive (Ord. 5331, 2/15/16)
   (122a1)Vincent Road      Northwesterly direction from W. 5th Street on South
side of the 500 block. (Ord. #5125, 7/16/12)
   (123)   Vinton         East side in the 700 block of Vinton Street in a
Southerly direction. (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; Ord. #5004, 9/7/10; Ord. #5215, 4/
28/14)
   (124)   Walnut Street      Northeast side in the 200 block in a
northwesterly direction from Clay; northeast side in the 900 block in a
northwesterly direction from S. Barclay (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (125)   Water         Northeast side in the 600 block in a southeasterly
direction from E. 4th; on the north side in a westerly direction from E. 6th
(Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; Ord. #4952, 8/3/09))
   (126)   Webster St.      North side in the 100 block east of E. 4th Street
('91 Rev.)
   (127)   Wellington Street   North side in the 100 block in a westerly
direction from Mullan; southwest side in the 400 block in a southeasterly
direction from W. 3rd; northeast side in the 500 block in a southeasterly
direction from W. Park (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (128)   Wildwood Rd.   North side in an easterly direction from St. Francis
Drive ('95 Rev.)
   (129)   Woodmayr Dr.   Both sides 120 feet in a westerly direction from
Greenbrier; both sides 120 feet in an easterly direction from Greenbrier (Ord.
#3745, 10/1/90)
*Argyle--North side in the 100 block in a westerly direction from Logan (Ord.
#3277, 5/16/83; deleted by '95 Rev.)
*Easley Street--North side from Baltimore Street to Touchae Street (Ord. #4457,
2/12/01; repealed by Ord. #4504, 8/27/01)
*King Drive—West side in a northerly direction from San Marnan Access Road   
(Ord. #4088, 4/10/95; repealed by Ord. #4644, 9/8/03)
*Peoria Street--South side in the 200 block in a westerly direction from Marsh
Street ('91 Rev.; repealed by Ord. #4599, 3/10/03)
*Lafayette Street--Northeast side in the 300 block in a northwesterly direction
from E. 3rd; northeast side in the 900 block in a southeasterly direction from
E. 7th; northeast side in the 1200 block in a northwesterly direction from E.
11th; southwest side in the 1300 block in a northwesterly direction from Union;
southwest side in the 1400 block in a southeasterly direction from Union; south
side in the 1700 block in a westerly direction from Vinton (rescinded by Ord.
#5185, 10/28/13)
   (47)   Glenwood      North side in the 800 block in an easterly direction
from Linden (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; Ord. #5367, 9/12/16)
   *(45)   E. Fourth St.-- East side in the 2000 block in a southerly direction
from Charles Street; east side in the 700 block in a southerly direction from
Pine Street (Ord. #4568, 8/12/02; Amended by Ord. #5552, 3/23/2020)
SEC. 553A.   NO PARKING HERE TO CORNER MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY.
When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park any vehicle
between the corner and a sign designating "No Parking Here to Corner" Monday
through Friday from 7:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. upon any of the streets or portions
thereof as named herein:
   STREET   SIDE OF STREET AND BLOCK WHERE PARKING IS PROHIBITED
   (1) Park Lane (W)   North side in the 300 block in an easterly direction
from Hillcrest Road (Ord. #4573, 9/9/02)
   (2) Rath Street   North side in the 400 block in an easterly direction from
Court Avenue (Ord. #4491, 7/16/01)
   (3) Sycamore St.   Northeast side in the 1600 block in an easterly direction
from Division Street (Ord. #4492, 7/16/01)
SEC. 553B.   NO PARKING HERE TO CORNER WEDNESDAYS BOTH SIDES 5:00 P.M. TO 8:30
P.M.
When signs are erected in each block, or portion thereof, giving notice, no
person shall park a vehicle between the corner and a sign designating “No
Parking Here to Corner” Wednesdays from 5:00 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. upon any of the
streets or portions thereof as named herein: (Ord. #5576, 10/5/2020
   (1)    Janney Avenue    Both sides of the 400 block of Janney Avenue.
SEC. 554.   NO PARKING HERE TO DRIVE
When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park any vehicle
between the drive and a sign designating "No Parking Here to Drive" upon any of
the streets or portions thereof as named herein:
   (l)   Allen         Northeast side in the 300 block
   (2)   Aspen Drive      West side from 30 feet north of Aspen Court drive
(Ord. #4505, 8/27/01)
   (3)   Carolina      South side in the 500 block
   (4)   Casper Avenue   West side between 2234 and 2242 Casper Avenue (Ord.
#4754, 1/24/05)
   (5)   Donald (West)      South side in the 200 block
   (6)   Linden         East side in the 600 block
   (7)   Ravenwood Road   East side at cul-de-sac in 1300 block (Ord. #4274, 1/
20/98)
(This Section added by Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
SEC. 555.   NO PARKING HERE TO TRACKS555.   NO PARKING HERE TO TRACKS
When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park any vehicle
between the tracks and a sign designating "No Parking Here To Tracks" upon any
of the streets or portions thereof as named herein:
   (1)   Fifth Street (West)   Southeast side in the 300 block
   (2)   Mulberry Street   South side in the 800 block (Ord. #4019, 6/13/94)
SEC. 556.   NO PARKING HERE TO ALLEY556.   NO PARKING HERE TO ALLEY
When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park any vehicle
between alley and a sign designating "No Parking Here to Allen" upon any of the
streets or portions thereof as named herein:
   (l)   Byron Avenue      North side in the 200 block (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (2)   Cedar Street      South side in the 500 block ('91 Rev.)
   (3)   Linden Avenue   East side in the 200 block (Ord. #4180, 7/15/96)
   (4)   Moir Street      East side in the 200 block (Ord. #4365, 6/28/99)
   (5)   Mulberry St.      Southwest side in the 600 block
   (6)   Mullan         Southeast side in the 600 block (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (7)   Parker St. (W)      North side in the 400 block
   (8)   Second St. (E)      Northwest side in the 500 block (Ord. #3277, 5/16/
83)
   (9)   Third St. (W)      Southeast side in the 900 block
SEC. 557.   NO PARKING MAIL DROP557.   NO PARKING MAIL DROP
When signs are erected giving notice of "No Parking Mail Drop," no person shall
park any vehicle upon any of the streets or portions thereof as named herein:
   (l)   Commercial Street   Both sides in the 400 block
   (2)   Fifth Street (E)   Northwest side in the 200 block
   (3)   Sycamore      Both sides in the 300 block (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
SEC. 558.   NO PARKING HOTEL ENTRANCE558.   NO PARKING HOTEL ENTRANCE
When signs are erected giving notice of "No Parking Hotel Entrance," no person
shall park any vehicle upon any of the streets or portions thereof as named
herein:
   *Sycamore Street   Deleted by '91 Rev.
SEC. 558A.   NO PARKING CITY VEHICLE PARKING ONLY
When signs are erected giving notice of “No Parking City Vehicle Parking Only”,
no person shall park any vehicle upon any of the streets or portions thereof as
named herein:
   (1)   East Sixth Street       400 Block
   (2)   Jefferson Street      600 Block (Ord. #5621, 10/18/21)
SEC. 559.   10 MINUTE PARKING559.   10 MINUTE PARKING
When signs are erected in each block or portion thereof affected, giving
notice, no person shall park a vehicle for longer than 10 minutes at any time
within the district and upon any of the streets or portions thereof as named
herein:
   (1)   Alley         West side in the alley running parallel with the 1000
block of East 4th Street between Saxon Street and Argyle Street (Ord. #4211,
12/2/96)
   (2)   Commercial      North side in the 400 block in drop-off zone at
Waterloo Public Library; south side in the 500 block in drop-off zone at Civic
Center (Ord. #3299, 9/12/83; Ord. #3459, 11/3/86)
   (3)   Dane Street      South side in the 500 block; north side in front of
521-523 Dane Street (Ord. #4768, 4/18/05; Ord. #4823, 7/24/06))
   (4)   Fourth St. (W)      East side in the 100 block in drop-off zone; east
side in the 200 block from Jefferson Street to alley north of Jefferson Street
(Ord. #3299, 9/12/83; '91 Rev.; Ord. #4019, 6/13/94)
   (5)   Ninth St. (W)      Northwest side in the 3700 block approximately 20
feet from the corner of Southbrooke Drive (Ord. #4790, 11/21/05)
*Fourth St. (E)--(Enacted by Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; repealed by Ord. #4205, 11/
12/96)
SEC. 559A.   15 MINUTE PARKING
   When signs are erected in each block, or portion thereof affected, giving
notice, no person shall park a vehicle for longer than 15 minutes at any time
between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, within the
district and upon any of the streets or portions thereof as named herein (this
section added by Ord. #4434, 8/28/00):
   (1) High Street   East side from mid-block in a southerly direction to Vine
Street
   (2) Vine Street   North side from mid-block in an easterly direction to S.
Barclay Street
SEC. 560.   30 MINUTE PARKING560.   30 MINUTE PARKING
When signs are erected in each block or portion thereof affected, giving
notice, no person shall park a vehicle for longer than 30 minutes at any time
within the district and upon any of the streets or portions thereof as named
herein:
*High Street (Ord. #3751, 11/19/90; repealed by Ord. #4434, 8/28/00)
*Westfield Ave. (Ord. #3417, 12/23/85; Ord. #3751, 11/19/90; repealed by Ord.
#4309, 6/22/98)
SEC. 561.   30 MINUTE PARKING BETWEEN 8:00 A.M. AND 12:00 NOON561.   30 MINUTE
PARKING BETWEEN 8:00 A.M. AND 12:00 NOON
When signs are erected in each block, or portion thereof affected, giving
notice, no person shall park a vehicle for longer than 30 minutes at any time
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon, except Saturdays and Sundays,
within the district and upon any of the streets or portions thereof as named
herein:
Sycamore Street   Northeasterly side of Sycamore Street from Division Street to
Vinton Street
SEC. 562.   30 MINUTE PARKING BEHIND CITY HALL562.   30 MINUTE PARKING BEHIND
CITY HALL
All parking adjacent to City Hall Lot located along the alley extending from
East Sixth Street to East Fifth Street and lying between Franklin Street and
Mulberry Street shall be limited to 30 minute parking from 8:00 a.m. to 6:00
p.m. except Saturday and Sunday. Spaces marked "reserved" are not included in
this restriction. (Ord. #3217, 6/14/82; Ord. #3360, 8/20/84)
SEC. 563.   ONE HOUR PARKING563.   ONE HOUR PARKING
When signs are erected in each block, or portion thereof, giving notice, no
person shall park a vehicle for longer than one hour at any time between the
hours of 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. within the district and upon any of the streets
or portions thereof as named herein:
   STREET   PORTION DESIGNATED AS ONE HOUR PARKING
   (l)   Commercial St.   Northeast side from the Chicago Great Western
Railroad tracks to W. 8th Street
   (2)   Division St.      East side between Sycamore Street and Lafayette
Street
   (3)   Duryea         Northwest side from Westfield to Beck (Ord. #3277, 5/
16/83)
   (4)   Elm Street      West side between Sycamore Street and Mulberry Street
   (5)   Fifth St. (W)      Northwest side from Randolph to Allen; southeast
side from Grant to Allen and from South to Randolph; southeast side in the 800
block (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; Ord. #4873, 6/11/07)
   (6)   Irving Street      West side in a northerly direction from Franklin
Street (Ord. #4121, 8/14/95)
   (7)   Jefferson St.      Southwest side from W. 6th to W. 7th (Ord. #3277,
5/16/83)
   (9)   McKinley St.      East side from Westfield Avenue to Falls Avenue
   (11)   Sixth St. (W)      Northwesterly side from Washington Street to South
Street
   (12)   Sullivan      North side 150 feet west of Third Street
   (13)   Sycamore St.      Northeast side from E. 6th to E. 7th; northeast
side in the 1300 block; southwest side from Elm to Division (Ord. #3277, 5/16/
83; Ord. #4539, 2/25/02)
   (14)   Third St. (W)      Southeast and northwest side from South Street to
Washington Street; northwest side in a southwesterly direction from Jefferson
Street to the alley; northwest side in the 1400 block 150 feet in a northerly
direction from Sullivan; southeast side in the 900 block 150 feet in a
northerly direction from Locust (Ord. #3599, 11/7/88)
   (15)   Westfield Avenue   (Repealed by Ord. #4309, 6/22/98)
*Rath Street-Northeasterly side from Clinton Street to Dunham Place (deleted by
2000 Rev.)
* (10)   E. Seventh Street, Southeast side from Mulberry Street to Sycamore
Street; northwest side from Mulberry Street to Franklin Street (repealed by
Ord. #5140, 12/3/12)
* (8) Lafayette Street – Southwest side of Lafayette from Division Street to
Vinton Street (repealed by Ord. #5187, 10/28/13)
SEC. 564.   TWO HOUR PARKING, 8:00 A.M. to 6:00 P.M.564.   TWO HOUR PARKING, 8:
00 A.M. to 6:00 P.M.
When signs are erected in each block, or portion thereof, giving notice, no
person shall park a vehicle for longer than two hours at any time between the
hours of 8:00 A.M. and 6:00 P.M. within the district and upon any of the
streets or portions thereof as named herein:
   (1)   Bellaire Road   (Repealed by Ord. #5660, 8/15/22)
   (2)   Fifth St. (W)      Both sides from Washington Street to South Street;
southwest side from South Street to Randolph (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; Ord. #3657,
8/7/89)
   (3)   Fourth St. (E)   East side from Walnut Street to Dane Street; west
side from Dane Street to Pine Street
   (4)   Grey         West side from Acadia to Easton (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (5)   Jefferson St.      Southwest side from Mullan Avenue to W. 3rd Street;
northeast side from West Mullan Avenue in a westerly direction for a distance
of 320 feet
   (6)   Lafayette St.      Southwest side from Elm Street to Division Street;
southwest side from Illinois Central Railroad tracks to Elm Street
   (7)   Seventh Street (E)   Southeast side from Lafayette to Sycamore (Ord.
#3277, 5/16/83)
   (8)   Sycamore      Northeast side from E. 7th to E. 8th (Ord. #3277, 5/16/
83)
Acadia (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; repealed by Ord. #4194, 9/16/96)
Waterloo Recreation and Arts Center Parking Lot (Repealed by Ord. #3862, 5/26/
92)
SEC. 564A   TWO HOUR PARKING, 8:00 A.M. TO 6:00 P.M., MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY
When signs are erected in each block, or portion thereof, giving notice, no
person shall park a vehicle for longer than two hours at any time between the
hours of 8:00 A.M. and 6:00 P.M. within the district and upon any of the
streets or portions thereof as named herein:
Lafayette Street   Northeast side of 300 block of Lafayette Street (Ord. #5216,
5/12/14)
SEC. 565.   TWO HOUR PARKING565.   TWO HOUR PARKING
When signs are erected in each block, or portion thereof, giving notice, no
person shall park a vehicle for longer than two hours at any time within the
district and upon any of the streets or portions thereof as named herein:
   (l)   Anita Street      North side between the alley east of E. 4th Street
and Boston Avenue
   (2)   Black Hawk Rd.   Both sides fifty (50) feet on either side of the
driveway to 1720 Black Hawk Road (Ord. #4331, 11/23/98)
   (3)   Cataract Ave.      North side from Baltimore Street to Edgemont Avenue
(Ord. #3844; 1/27/92)
   (4)   Fifth Street      West side from Bluff Street to Washington (Ord.
#3430, 4/7/86)
   (5)   Fourth St. (E)      West side from Louise Street to Arlington Street
(Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (6)   Westfield      North side in the 1400 block (Ord. #4990, 6/7/10)
*Fourth St. (W)-Both sides in the 200 block (Ord. #3413, 11/18/85; Ord. #3433,
5/19/86; deleted by 2000 Rev.)
*Sycamore St.-Both sides in the 600 block (Ord. #3413, 11/18/85; deleted by
2000 Rev.)
SEC. 566.   TWO HOUR PARKING-BETWEEN 6:00 A.M. AND 8:00 P.M.566.   TWO HOUR
PARKING-BETWEEN 6:00 A.M. AND 8:00 P.M.
When signs are erected in each block, or portion thereof, giving notice, no
person shall park a vehicle for longer than two hours at any time between the
hours of 6:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m., except Sundays, within the district and upon
any of the streets or portions thereof as named herein (Added by Ord. #3995,
12/13/93):
   (1)   Fourth Street (W)   Northwest side from Vermont Street to Bayard
Street
SEC. 567.   TWO HOUR PARKING-BETWEEN 8:00 A.M. AND 6:00 P.M.567.   TWO HOUR
PARKING-BETWEEN 8:00 A.M. AND 6:00 P.M.
When signs are erected in each block, or portion thereof, giving notice, no
person shall park a vehicle for longer than two hours at any time between the
hours of 8:00 A.M. and 6:00 P.M. except Saturdays and Sundays within the
district and upon any of the streets or portions thereof as named herein (Ord.
#4323, 10/19/98):
   St. Francis Drive   In front of 2705-2717 St. Francis Drive
*Acadia Street   -South side from Grey Street to Kimball Avenue (Ord. #4271,
12/8/97; repealed by Ord. #4401, 12/20/99)
*Fifth Street W-East side in the 1200 block (repealed by Ord. #4514, 10/8/01)
SEC. 568.   TWO HOUR PARKING-BETWEEN 8:00 A.M. AND 4:00 P.M.568.   TWO HOUR
PARKING-BETWEEN 8:00 A.M. AND 4:00 P.M.
When signs are erected in each block, or portion thereof, giving notice, no
person shall park a vehicle for longer than two hours at any time between the
hours of 8:00 A.M. and 4:00 P.M. except Saturdays and Sundays within the
district and upon any of the streets or portions thereof as named herein:
   Black Hawk Street   Southwest side from West 12th Street to West 14th
Street; Southwest side from West 15th Street to West 18th Street (Ord. #5308,
10/5/15).
   (la)   Commercial St.   Both sides from West 18th Street to West 12th Street
(Ord. #3444, 7/7/86; Ord. #5308, 10/5/15)
   (2)   Easton Avenue   North side in the 300, 400 and 500 blocks (Ord. #4883,
9/24/07)
   (3)   Flammang Dr.      South side from Hammond Avenue to Camelot Drive
(Ord. #3894, 9/21/92)
   (4)   Morgan Road      South side in the 100 block (Ord. #3218, 6/14/82)
   (5)   Newton Street      (Repealed by Ord. #4741, 10/25/04)
   (6)   Park Ave. (E)      Both sides in the 500 block, from Walnut Street to
Franklin Street (Ord. #3930, 3/22/93)
   (7)   South Street      (Ord. #3269, 4/4/83; repealed by Ord. #4010, 3/21/
94)
*Sycamore St. (Ord. #3287, 6/20/83; repealed by Ord. #4438, 9/25/00)
SEC. 569.   THREE HOUR PARKING-BETWEEN 8:00 A.M. AND 5:00 P.M.569.   THREE HOUR
PARKING-BETWEEN 8:00 A.M. AND 5:00 P.M.
When signs are erected giving notice, no person shall park a vehicle longer
than three hours at any time between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. at
the following location:
   (1)   Waterloo Recreation and Arts Center Parking Lot
That area of the parking lot lying northeast of Cedar Street and between Cedar
Street and Plaza Drive, also known as "Parking Area #2" (Ord. #3795, 7/1/91;
Ord. #3862, 5/26/92)
SEC. 570.   FOUR HOUR PARKING.570.   FOUR HOUR PARKING.
When signs are erected in each block, or portion thereof, giving notice, no
person shall park a vehicle for longer than four hours at any time between the
hours of 8:00 A.M. and 6:00 P.M. within the district and upon any of the
streets or portions thereof as named herein (Ord. #3657, 8/7/89):
   (1)   Fourth St. (W)   West side from Washington Street to South Street
   (2)   Jefferson St.      (Ord. #3693, l/16/90; repealed by Ord. #3895, 10/
26/92)
   (3)   South Street      South side from West Park Avenue to West Fourth
Street (Ord. #4010, 3/21/94)
SEC. 571.   NO PARKING 8:00 A.M. TO 4:00 P.M.571.   NO PARKING 8:00 A.M. TO 4:
00 P.M.
When signs are erected in each block, or portion thereof, giving notice, no
person shall park a vehicle between the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. on any
day except Saturday, Sunday and holidays within the district and upon any of
the streets or portions thereof as named herein:
   STREET   PORTION WHERE PARKING PROHIBITED
   (l)   Baltimore St.      East side from Locke Avenue to Ridgeway Avenue
   (1a)   Coachman Drive   South side in the 2000 block. (Ord. #5517, 10/14/19)
   (2)   Fifth St. (E)      Southeast side from Locust Street to Western Avenue
   (3)   Hillcrest Ave.      East side from West Ridgeway Avenue to Midlothian
Avenue (Ord. #3108, 10/20/80)
   (4)   Maynard      South side from Valley to Wheeler (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (5)   Mulberry St.      South side from Rhey Street to Vinton Street
   (6)   Reber Street      North side from Sullivan Street to Kimball Avenue
   (7)   Sullivan St.      East side from W. 2nd Street to 150 feet north of W.
3rd Street
   (8) Sycamore Street   Southwest side from E. 11th Street to Illinois Central
Railroad tracks (Ord. #4378, 8/23/99)
   (9)   Western Ave.      East side from Hawthorne Avenue to Byron Avenue
*Fourth St. (E)--(Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; repealed by Ord. #4439, 9/25/00)
*Third Street (W) repealed by Ord. #3277, 5/16/83.
SEC 571A.   NO PARKING 8:00 A.M. TO 4:00 P.M. DURING SCHOOL
When signs are erected in each block, or portion thereof, giving notice, no
person shall park a vehicle between the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Monday
through Friday during school within the district and upon any of the streets or
portions thereof as named herein: (Ord. 5322, 12/7/15)
   STREET      PORTION WHERE PARKING PROHIBITED
   Baltimore Street   East side in the 2400 block
   Easley Street   Both sides from 2301 Easley Street to 2225 Easley Street
   Fifth Street (W)   East side in the 1100 and 1200 blocks (Ord. #4642, 9/2/
03)
   Locke Avenue   Both sides in the 600 and 700 blocks (Ord. #4732, 9/27/04)
   Sious Street   Both sides of 1900 block.
   Touchae Street   Both sides from 2210 Touchae Street to 2157 Touchae Street
SEC. 571B. NO PARKING 7:00 A.M. TO 4:00 P.M. DURING SCHOOL.
When signs are erected in each block, or portion thereof, giving notice, no
person shall park a vehicle between the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Monday
through Friday during school within the district and upon any of the streets or
portions thereof as named herein (Added by Ord. #5063, 8/1/11):
   STREET      PORTION WHERE PARKING PROHIBITED
   (1)   Hillcrest Road      West side in the 600 block
SEC. 571C.   NO PARKING 7:00 A.M. TO 3:00 P.M. DURING SCHOOL.539.   NO TURN
ALLOWED AT RED LIGHT.
When signs are erected in each block, or portion thereof, giving notice, no
person shall park a vehicle between the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Monday
through Friday during school within the district and upon any of the streets or
portions thereof as named herein (Added by Ord. #5086, 12/5/11):
   STREET      PORTION WHERE PARKING PROHIBITED
   (1)   Lime Street      North side in the 600 and 700 blocks
(Ord. #5378, 9/19/16)
SEC. 572   NO PARKING 7:00 A.M. TO 4:00 P.M.
Black Hawk Street   Southwest side from West 12th Street to West 14th Street
(Ord. #5378, 12/19/16)
SEC. 573.   NO PARKING 1:00 P.M. TO 4:00 P.M.573.   NO PARKING l:00 P.M. TO 4:
00 P.M.
When signs are erected in each block, or portion thereof, giving notice, no
person shall park a vehicle between the hours of l:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. on any
days, Sundays excepted, within the district and upon any of the streets or
portions thereof as named herein:
   STREET      PORTION WHERE PARKING PROHIBITED
   (l)   Belmont Avenue   West side in the 300 block ('91 Rev.)
   (2)   Boston Avenue   East side from the Illinois Central Railroad tracks to
Esther Street ('91 Rev.)
   (3)   Hillcrest      Both sides from Ridgeway to Wilshire; east side from
Ridgeway to Midlothian (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (4)   Leland Avenue   South side from West Mullan Avenue to Sunnyside Avenue
   (5)   Mulberry St.      North side from Lane Street to Elm Street
*Oaklawn Ave.-West side from Falls Avenue to West Mullan Avenue (Deleted by '91
Rev.)
*Sherman Avenue-East side from Esther Street to Anita Street (Deleted by '91
Rev.)
*Sunnyside-West side from Leland to West Wellington (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83;
deleted by '91 Rev.)
SEC. 574.   NO PARKING 12:00 NOON TO 4:00 P.M.574.   NO PARKING 12:00 NOON TO
4:00 P.M.
When signs are erected in each block or portion thereof, giving notice, no
person shall park a vehicle between the hours of 12:00 noon to 4:00 p.m. on any
days, except Saturday and Sunday, within the district and upon any of the
streets or portions thereof as named herein:
Sycamore Street   Northeast side from Division Street to Vinton Street
(This entire section repealed by Ord. #4438, 9/25/00.)
SEC. 575.   NO PARKING 6:00 A.M. TO 6:00 P.M. EXCEPT SUNDAY575.   NO PARKING 6:
00 A.M. TO 6:00 P.M. EXCEPT SUNDAY
When signs are erected in each block, or portion thereof, giving notice, no
person shall park a vehicle between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on any
day, except Sunday, within the district and upon any of the streets or portions
thereof as named herein:
Black Hawk Street   Southwest side from West 15th Street to West 18th Street.
Fourth Street (W)   Northwest and Southeast sides in the 200 block.
Lime Street   South side from Walnut to East Fourth Street
(Ord. #5379, 12/19/16)
SEC. 576.   NO PARKING 11:00 P.M. TO 5:00 A.M.576.   NO PARKING 11:00 P.M. TO
5:00 A.M.
When signs are erected in each block, or portion thereof, giving notice, no
person shall park a vehicle between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. on
any day within the district and upon any of the streets or portions thereof as
named herein:
   (1)   Ankeny Street      West side in the 200 block
   (2)   Fourth Street (E)   West side in the 600 block; east side in the 700
and 800 blocks; west side in the 1400 block (Ord. #4130, 9/25/95; Ord. #4436,
9/18/00; Ord. #4705, 7/19/04)
   (3)   Webster Street   South side in the 00 block (Ord. #3868, 6/8/92)
   Fifth Street (W)   Alley in 200 block, both sides, between Jefferson and
Commercial Streets (Ord. # 5469, 9/24/18)
   Sixth Street (W)   Alley in 700 block, both sides, between Jefferson and
Commercial Streets. (Ord. # 5469, 9/24/18)
SEC. 577.   NO PARKING 6:00 P.M. TO 5:00 A.M.577.   NO PARKING 6:00 P.M. TO 5:
00 A.M.
When signs are erected in each block, or portion thereof, giving notice, no
person shall park a vehicle between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. on any
day within the district and upon any of the streets or portions thereof as
named herein (Ord. #3962, 8/9/93):
   (1)   Adams Street      South side in the 200 block from the driveway to
Linn Street (Ord. #4693, 5/10/04)
   (1a)   E. Donald Street Access Road      South side in the 300 block (Ord.
#4989, 6/7/10)
   (2)   Fourth Street (E)   East side in the 900, 1000 and 1100 blocks
   (3)   Sycamore Street   Southwest side in the 1300 and 1400 blocks (Ord.
#4896, 1/14/08)
SEC. 578.   NO PARKING 10:00 P.M. TO 6:00 A.M.578.   NO PARKING 10:00 P.M. TO
6:00 A.M.
When signs are erected in each block, or portion thereof, giving notice, no
person shall park a vehicle between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. on
any day within the district and upon any of the streets or portions thereof as
named herein (Ord. #4043, 10/3/94):
   (1)   Fowler Street      North side in the 400 block
SEC. 579.   NO PARKING ANY TIME EXCEPT SUNDAY579.   NO PARKING ANY TIME EXCEPT
SUNDAY
When signs are erected in each block, or portion thereof, giving notice, no
person shall park a vehicle at any time except Sunday within the district and
upon any of the streets or portions thereof as named herein:
   STREET   PORTION WHERE PARKING PROHIBITED
   (1)   Allen Street   Northeast side from W. 7th Street to Johnson Street
(Ord. #4401, 12/20/99)
   (2)   Baltimore St.      Northeast side from W. 3rd Street to W. 4th Street
   (3)   Butler Street      From Nevada to Colorado
   (4)   Byron Avenue      South side from W. 6th Street to W. 7th Street
   (5)   Commercial St.   Northeast side from W. 4th Street to W. 5th Street
   (6)   Dawson      North side from Avon to Burton (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (7)   Denver Street      Northeast side from W. 4th Street to W. 5th Street
   (8)   Downing Avenue   South side from Wren Road to Doreen Avenue
   (9)   Eighth St. (W)   Southeast side from Jefferson Street to Washington
Street (Ord. #4789, 11/21/05)
   (10)   Fifth St. (W)      A zone in the 600 block extending north of
Randolph (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (11)   Fourth St. (E)      West side from Lime to Pine; east side from
Quincy to Newell (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (12)   Fourth Street (W)   Northwest side from Kimball to Marsh; southeast
side from Kimball to Grant (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (13)   High         West side from Maple to Vine (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (14)   Johnson      Southwest side from Allen Street to W. 7th Street;
northeast side from Allen Street to W. 8th Street (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; Ord.
#4401, 12/20/99)
   (15)   Knoll Street      West side from Janney Street to University Avenue
   (16)   Lime         South side from East Fourth to High (Ord. #3277, 5/16/
83; Ord. #3343, 5/29/84)
   (17)   Maple Street      North side from South Barclay Street to High Street
   (18)   Mitchell Ave.      South side from Hammond Avenue to West 11th Street
(Ord. #3796, 7/1/91)
   (19)   Parker Street (W)   South side from Ackermant Street to Columbia
Street
   (20)   Riehl Street      North side in the 400 block (Ord. #3470, 2/9/87)
   (21)   Sager Street      North side in the 1400 block
   (22)   Second Street (W)   Southeast side from Randolph Street to Wellington
Street
   (23)   Sixth St. (W)      Southeast side from South Street to Grant Avenue
   (24)   Vine Street      North side from S. Barclay Street to Walnut Street
('91 Rev.; Ord. #4434, 8/28/00)
   (25)   Walnut Street      North side from East Park Avenue to Vine Street
   (26)   Wellington Street   North and northeast sides from W. 6th Street to
W. 7th Street (Ord. #4837, 9/25/06)
   (27)   Western Ave.      West side from Johnson Street to Pleasant Street
   (28)   Williston Avenue   South side from Oregon Street to Minnesota Street
*Dundee Street--Repealed by Ord. #3277, 5/16/83.
*Fremont--(Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; deleted by '91 Rev.)
*Randolph Street--Repealed by Ord. #3277, 5/16/83.
SEC. 580.   NO PARKING ANY TIME EXCEPT SUNDAY FROM 7:00 A.M. TO 12:00
P.M.580.   NO PARKING ANY TIME EXCEPT SUNDAY FROM 7:00 A.M. TO 12:00 P.M.
When signs are erected in each block, or portion thereof, giving notice, no
person shall park a vehicle at any time except Sunday from 7:00 a.m. to 12:00
p.m. within the district and upon any of the streets or portions thereof as
named herein (added by Ord. #4076, 2/27/95):
   STREET   PORTION WHERE PARKING PROHIBITED
   (1)   Fourth St. (W)   Southeast side from Graceline Boulevard to Lovejoy
Avenue; northwest side from Head Hunter Parking Lot to Arden Street
SEC. 580A.   NO PARKING ANY TIME EXCEPT SUNDAY AND WEDNESDAY P.M.
When signs are erected in each block, or portion thereof, giving notice, no
person shall park a vehicle at any time except Sunday or Wednesday p.m. within
the district and upon any of the streets or portions thereof as named herein
(Ord. #4381, 9/27/99):
   STREET   PORTION WHERE PARKING PROHIBITED
   (1) Byron Avenue   South side in the 800 block (Repealed by Ord. #4401, 12/
20/99)
SEC. 580B.   NO PARKING EXCEPT FRIDAY, SATURDAY AND SUNDAY FROM 12:00 NOON TO
10:00 P.M.
When signs are erected in each block, or portion thereof, giving notice, no
person shall park a vehicle at any time except Friday, Saturday and Sunday from
12:00 noon to 10:00 p.m. within the district and upon any of the streets or
portions thereof as named herein Ord. #5109, 4/2/12):
   STREET    PORTION WHERE PARKING PROHIBITED 
   (1)    Wellington Street    North side of the 200 block
SEC. 581.   SCHOOL STOP SIGNS581.   SCHOOL STOP SIGNS
The following locations are designated as school crossings and every driver of
a vehicle shall stop in accordance with the provisions of Section 262 of this
Ordinance:
   (1)   Bismark and Magnolia
   (2)   Cedar Bend Street and Parker Street (Ord. #4716, 9/7/04)
   (3)   Easton and Oregon
   (4)   (Repealed by Ord. #5303, 9/14/15)
   (5)   Hawthorne Avenue and Sixth Street
   (6)   Longfellow Avenue and Parker Street (Ord. #4716, 9/7/04)
   (7)   Mitchell Avenue (East), 200 block (Mid-block)
   (8)   Prospect Boulevard, 200 block (Mid-block)
*Ardmore Street and Maynard Avenue--deleted by '91 Rev.
*Beverly Hills and Maynard Avenue--deleted by '91 Rev.
*Burton Avenue, 2100 block--repealed by Ord. #3277, 5/16/83.
*DeSoto Avenue and Rainbow Drive--repealed by Ord. #3277, 5/16/83.
*Devonshire and Wenner--deleted by '91 Rev.
*Hawthorne Avenue and Ninth Street--repealed by Ord. #3277, 5/16/83.
*Idaho Street and Monroe Street--deleted by '91 Rev.
*Newell Street and Springview Street--repealed by Ord. #3277, 5/16/83.
*(4)   Fifth Street (W) and Western Avenue (Ord. #4642, 9/2/03) repealed by
Ord. #5303, 9/14/15.
SEC. 582.   TRUCK TRAFFIC PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS582.   TRUCK TRAFFIC
PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS
Section l. That the following words and phrases when used in this section shall
have the meaning respectively ascribed to them.
   "Motor truck" means every motor vehicle designed primarily for carrying
livestock, merchandise or freight of any kind.
   "Light delivery truck" means any panel delivery truck or pick-up truck
designed to carry merchandise or freight of any kind not to exceed two thousand
(2,000) pounds.
   "Special mobile equipment" means every vehicle not designed or used
primarily for the transportation of persons or merchandise.
   "Implement of husbandry" means every vehicle which is designed or used
primarily for agricultural purposes.
Section 2. No person shall operate a motor truck, implement of husbandry, or
special mobile equipment with a maximum weight of over three (3) tons over or
upon the streets or portions of streets hereinafter designated except when
making a delivery to a place located upon said street or portion thereof and
this entrance shall be made from the nearest intersection where said delivery
is to be made. Nothing in this section shall prevent the operation of a light
delivery truck, panel delivery truck, or pick-up truck thereon.
   STREET   PORTION WHERE TRUCK TRAFFIC IS PROHIBITED
   (l)   Ackermant St.      Parker Street to W.C.F. & N. Drive
   (2)   Adrian Street      Lafayette Street to Dubuque Road (Ord. #4490, 7/9/
01)
   (3)   Airline Highway (E)   Logan Avenue to Moline Road ('91 Rev.)
   (4)   Alta Vista Ave.   Idaho Street to Steely Street (Ord. #3854, 4/13/92)
   (5)   Ansborough Ave.   San Marnan Drive to Sergeant Road
   (6)   Arizona Street      Independence Avenue to Vine Street (Ord. #3854, 4/
13/92)
   (7)   Arlington St. (W)   Logan Avenue to David Street
   (8)   Beech Street      Douglas to Newell (Ord. #3401, 8/19/85)
   (9)   Big Rock Road   From the west end of the Quarry Driveway to Wagner
Road (Ord. #3536, 3/28/88)
   (10)   Bishop Avenue   Osage to Independence (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83)
   (11)   Black Hawk Road   Fletcher Avenue to Downing Street, and Oriole
Avenue to Katoski Drive (Ord. #3676, 10/23/89)
   (12)   Burton Avenue   From Broadway to the north city limits (Ord. #3536,
3/28/88; '91 Rev.)
   (13)   Bryant Avenue   Oakland Avenue to Lindale Avenue (Ord. #4490, 7/9/01)
   (14)   Cedar Bend Street   West Donald Street to Longfellow Avenue
   (15)   Columbia Street   West Parker Street to W.C.F. & N. Drive
   (16)   Cutler Street      West Parker Street to W.C.F. & N. Drive
   (17) Donald St. (E)   Logan to easterly city limits from Memorial Day
through Labor Day of each year (Ord. #3277, 5/16/83; repealed by Ord. #4280, 2/
9/98; Ord. #4313, 7/13/98)
   (18)   Donald St. (W)   Cedar Bend Street to Logan Avenue
   (19)   Fairfield Street   Virginia Street to southerly end of Fairfield
Street
   (20)   Fletcher Avenue   W. 4th Street to University Avenue
   (21)   Frances Street      Parkview Boulevard to Hale Street
   (22)   Glenwood Street   Linden Avenue to Steely Street (Ord. #3854, 4/13/
92)
   (23)   Hackett Road (S)   University Avenue to Rainbow Drive
   (24) Hammond Avenue   Shaulis Road to southerly corporate limits. There
shall be an exemption for trucks operating to and from the Hawkeye Community
College Regional Transportation Training Center; the exemption shall be in
effect from the southerly corporate limits to a point 550 feet north of the
southerly corporate limits. (Ord. #3465, 12/8/86; Ord. #5015, 9/27/10)
   (25)   Highland Blvd.   Independence Avenue to Vine Street (Ord. #3854, 4/
13/92)
   (26)   Homer Street      Lakeside Street to northerly end of Homer Street
   (27)   Howard Avenue   LaPorte Road to Oregon Street (Ord. #3163, 10/5/81)
   (28)   Hummingbird Circle   From Sarah Drive to Southtown Drive (Ord. #4489,
7/9/01)
   (29)   Idaho Street      Newell Street to Donald Street
   (30)   Janney Street      Fletcher Avenue to Ansborough Avenue (Ord. #4490,
7/9/01)
   (31)   Keystone Street   E. 4th Street to Niles Street
   (32)   Lakeside Street   E. 4th Street to Niles Street
   (33)   Leonard Street   Dawson Street to Oakland Avenue
   (34)   Lincoln Street      West Parker Street to W.C.F. & N. Drive
   (35)   Lindale Avenue   West end of street to Oakland Avenue (Ord. #4490, 7/
9/01)
   (36)   Locke Avenue      LaPorte Road to Oregon Street (Ord. #3163, 10/5/81)
   (37)   Longfellow Avenue   West Parker Street to Lindale Avenue; Broadway
Street to Midland Drive (Ord. #3198, 4/12/82; Ord. #4490, 7/9/01)
   (38)   Louise Street      Logan Avenue to E. 4th Street
   (39)   Maplewood Street   Riehl Street to Riverside Drive
   (40)   Midland Drive   W.C.F. & N. Drive to Longfellow Avenue (Ord. #3198,
4/12/82)
   (41)   Mohawk Street   Independence Avenue to Glenwood Street (Ord. #3854,
4/13/92)
   (42)   Niles Street      East Donald Street to northerly end of Niles Street
   (43)   Norwood Street   Riverside Drive to Oakland Avenue
   (44)   Oakland Avenue   Kern Street to Conger Street (Ord. #4490, 7/9/01)
   (45)   Park Road      Fairview Avenue to Burton Avenue
   (46)   Parker Street (W)   Burton Avenue to Cedar Bend Street
   (47)   Plymouth Avenue   LaPorte Road to Oregon Street (Ord. #3163, 10/5/81)
   (48)   Poplar Street      Riverside Drive to Oakland Avenue
   (49)   Progress Avenue   From Richland Drive to Cadillac Drive (Ord. #3592,
10/24/88)
   (50)   Prospect Avenue   Idaho Street to Steely Street (Ord. #3854, 4/13/92)
   (51)   Rainbow Drive   Maynard Avenue to westerly city limits (Ord. #4490,
7/9/01)
   (52)   Reed Street      West Parker Street to W.C.F. & N. Drive
   (53)   Richland Drive   From Progress Avenue to east end of street (Ord.
#3592, 10/24/88)
   (54)   Ridgeway Avenue   San Marnan Drive to W. 4th Street
   (55)   Riehl Street      West end of the 1000 block of Riehl Street to
Riverside Drive
   (56)   Riverside Drive   Riehl Street to north end of street (Ord. #4490, 7/
9/01)
   (57)   Steely Street      Independence Avenue to Vine Street (Ord. #3854, 4/
13/92)
   (58)   Vine Street      Idaho Street to Steely Street (Ord. #3854, 4/13/92)
   (59)   Whittier Avenue   Poplar Street to Lindale Avenue (Ord. #4490, 7/9/
01)
   (60)   Williston Avenue   Washington Street to W. 4th Street
*Newell Street--Repealed by Ord. #3277, 5/16/83.
Section 3. No person shall operate a motor truck, implement of husbandry, or
special mobile equipment with a maximum weight of over five (5) tons over or
upon the streets or portions of streets hereinafter designated except when
making a delivery to a place located upon said street or portion thereof and
this entrance shall be made from the nearest intersection where said delivery
is to be made. Nothing in this section shall prevent the operation of a light
delivery truck, panel delivery truck, or pick-up truck thereon.
   STREET   PORTION WHERE TRUCK TRAFFIC IS PROHIBITED
   (1)   Fourth Street (W)   West Shaulis Road to Highway 412, also known as
San Marnan Drive
   (2)   Sheffield Avenue   From the south line of Easton Avenue to Ridgeway
Avenue (Ord. #3580, 9/12/88)
Section 4.
   (1)   Definition. No person shall operate a motor truck or special mobile
equipment with a maximum weight of over ten (10) tons over or upon the streets
or portions of streets hereinafter designated except when making a delivery to
a place located upon said street or portion thereof and this entrance shall be
made from the nearest intersection where said delivery is to be made.
   (2)   Exceptions. Nothing in this section shall prevent the operation of a
light delivery truck, panel delivery truck, or pick-up truck thereon.
   (3)   Prohibited Streets. Truck traffic, except as defined herein, is
prohibited on the following Streets:
   STREET   PORTION WHERE TRUCK TRAFFIC IS PROHIBITED
   (A)   RESERVED.
   (4)   Signage. Appropriate signage shall be installed and maintained to
inform road users of these restrictions, ensuring readability and compliance
with all applicable traffic control standards.
(Ord. #4306, 6/15/98; Ord. #4320, 8/3/98; Ord. #5779, 11/18/24)
SEC. 583.   BUSES ONLY583.   BUSES ONLY
No motor vehicle except buses shall use the access road running parallel to
Sycamore Street in the 400 block between East Park Avenue and East Third
Street.
SEC. 584.   EMBARGOES584.   EMBARGOES
The Police Department, Street Department or Sign and Traffic Department may
temporarily close or restrict the weight limit on sections of a street by City
Council Resolution when reasonably necessary because of construction,
reconstruction, maintenance, safety or natural disaster. The City shall cause
to be erected "road closed" or weight limit signs and partial or total
barricades in the roadway at each end of the closed section and on the closed
street where that street is intersected by other streets if such intersection
remains open. The City shall not be liable for any damages to any vehicle that
enters the closed section of street or the contents of such vehicle or for any
injuries to any person that enters the closed section of street, unless the
damages are caused by gross negligence of the City.
Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit or deny any person from gaining
lawful access to the person's property or residence, nor shall it change or
limit liability to such persons. (Ord. #3264, 3/21/83; '91 Rev.)
SEC. 585.   WEIGHT LIMIT SIGNS585.   WEIGHT LIMIT SIGNS
That Section 2B-41, Weight Limit Signs (R12-1 to 5), of the "Manual on Uniform
Traffic Control Devices", published by Iowa Department of Transportation, is
hereby adopted as part of the Traffic Code of the City of Waterloo, Iowa, and
hereby incorporated by this reference as though fully set forth. A copy of the
"Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices" is on file in the office of the
city clerk of the City of Waterloo, Iowa. (Ord. #3370, 9/24/84)
ppp
