CAREFREE, ARIZONA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2024 S-12 Supplement,
current through Ordinance 2023-04, passed 4-4-2023
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CHAPTER 1 GENERAL
Article 1-1   HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED
The ordinances as contained in the following chapters and sections shall
constitute and be designated "The Code of the Town of Carefree, Arizona," and
may be so cited. Such code may also be cited as the "Carefree Town Code."
Article 1-2   CONSTRUCTION OF ORDINANCES
The rules and the definitions set forth in this chapter shall be observed in
the construction of this code and the ordinances of the town unless such
construction would be inconsistent with either the manifest intent of the
council or the context of this code or the ordinances of the town.
Article 1-3   DEFINITIONS
   
1-3-1   General Rule Regarding Definitions
   
1-3-2   Acts by Agents
   
1-3-3   And, Or
   
1-3-4   Code
   
1-3-5   Council
   
1-3-6   County
   
1-3-7   Day
   
1-3-8   Daytime, Nighttime
   
1-3-9   Department, Board, Commission, Office, Officer or Employee
   
1-3-10   Gender; Singular and Plural
   
1-3-11   Heretofore and Hereafter
   
1-3-12   In the Town
   
1-3-13   Joint Authority
   
1-3-14   Mayor
   
1-3-15   Month
   
1-3-16   Oath
   
1-3-17   Owner
   
1-3-18   Person
   
1-3-19   Personal Property
   
1-3-20   Preceding, Following
   
1-3-21   Property
   
1-3-22   Real Property
   
1-3-23   Shall, May
   
1-3-24   Shall Have Been
   
1-3-25   Signature or Subscription by Mark
   
1-3-26   State
   
1-3-27   Tenant or Occupant
   
1-3-28   Tenses
   
1-3-29   Time--Computation
   
1-3-30   Time--Reasonable
   
1-3-31   Town
   
1-3-32   Week
   
1-3-33   Writing
   
1-3-34   Year
Section 1-3-1 General Rule Regarding Definitions
All words and phrases shall be construed and understood according to the common
and approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such
others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall
be construed and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning.
Section 1-3-2 Acts by Agents
When an act is required to be done which may by law as well be done by an agent
as by the principal, such requirement shall be construed to include all such
acts when done by an authorized agent.
Section 1-3-3 And, Or
"And" may be read "or" and "or" may be read "and" if the sense requires it.
Section 1-3-4 Code
The words "the code" or "this code" shall mean "The Code of the Town of
Carefree, Arizona," unless the context indicates otherwise.
Section 1-3-5 Council
Whenever the word "council" is used, it shall be construed to mean the common
council of the Town of Carefree, Arizona.
Section 1-3-6 County
"County" means Maricopa County, Arizona, except as otherwise provided.
Section 1-3-7 Day
A "day" is the period of time between any midnight and the midnight following.
Section 1-3-8 Daytime, Nighttime
"Daytime" is the period of time between sunrise and sunset. "Nighttime" is the
period of time between sunset and sunrise.
Section 1-3-9 Department, Board, Commission, Office, Officer or Employee
Whenever any "department, board, commission, office, officer or employee" is
referred to, it shall mean a department, board, commission, office, officer or
employee of the town unless the context clearly indicates otherwise; and the
prescribing of any duty or power of an officer by title shall include his duly
authorized representatives.
Section 1-3-10 Gender; Singular and Plural
Words of the masculine gender include the feminine; words in the singular
number include the plural and words in the plural number include the singular.
Section 1-3-11 Heretofore and Hereafter
Whenever the word "heretofore" occurs in any ordinance or this code it shall be
construed to mean any time previous to the date when such ordinance shall take
effect; and whenever the word "hereafter" occurs it shall be construed to mean
the time after the ordinance containing such word shall take effect.
Section 1-3-12 In the Town
The words "in the town" or "within the town" shall mean and include all
territory over which the town now has, or shall hereafter acquire, jurisdiction
for the exercise of its police powers or other regulatory powers.
Section 1-3-13 Joint Authority
All words purporting to give a joint authority to three or more town officers
or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of
such officers or other persons unless it shall be otherwise expressly declared
in the law giving the authority.
Section 1-3-14 Mayor
"Mayor" means the mayor of the Town of Carefree unless otherwise specifically
designated.
Section 1-3-15 Month
The word "month" shall mean a calendar month.
Section 1-3-16 Oath
"Oath" includes affirmation or declaration in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear"
and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed."
Section 1-3-17 Owner
The word "owner" applied to a building or land shall include any part owner,
joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of part
of such building or land.
Section 1-3-18 Person *
The word "person" shall mean an individual, firm, corporation, association,
organization, or any other entity.
 
Notes
* Amended by Ordinance 2022-01
Section 1-3-19 Personal Property
"Personal property" includes every species of property, except real property as
defined in this article.
Section 1-3-20 Preceding, Following
The words "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after,
respectively.
Section 1-3-21 Property
The word "property" shall include real and personal property.
Section 1-3-22 Real Property
"Real property" shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Section 1-3-23 Shall, May
"Shall" is mandatory and "may" is permissive.
Section 1-3-24 Shall Have Been
The words "shall have been" include past and future cases.
Section 1-3-25 Signature or Subscription by Mark
"Signature" or "subscription" includes a mark when the signer cannot write,
such signer's or subscriber's name being written near the mark by a witness who
writes his own name near the signer's or subscriber's name; but a signature or
subscription by mark can be acknowledged or can serve as a signature or
subscription to a sworn statement only when two witnesses so sign their own
names thereto.
Section 1-3-26 State
The words "the state" shall be construed to mean the State of Arizona.
Section 1-3-27 Tenant or Occupant
The word "tenant" or "occupant" applied to a building or land shall include any
person holding a written or an oral lease of such building or land or any
person who occupies the whole or part of such building or land, either alone or
with others.
Section 1-3-28 Tenses
The present tense includes the past and future tenses, and the future includes
the present.
Section 1-3-29 Time--Computation
The time within which an act is to be done as provided in this code or in any
order issued pursuant to any ordinance, when expressed in days, shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, except that if the
last day is a Sunday or holiday it shall be excluded; and when such time is
expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday or a holiday, from midnight to
midnight, shall be excluded.
Section 1-3-30 Time--Reasonable
In all cases where any section of this code shall require any act to be done in
a reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean such time only as may be necessary for the
prompt performance of such duty or compliance with such notice.
Section 1-3-31 Town
"Town" means the Town of Carefree, Arizona, in Maricopa County, State of
Arizona, except as otherwise provided.
Section 1-3-32 Week
A "week" consists of seven consecutive days.
Section 1-3-33 Writing
"Writing" includes any form of recorded message capable of comprehension by
ordinary visual means. Whenever any notice, report, statement or record is
required or authorized by this code, it shall be made in writing in the English
language unless it is expressly provided otherwise.
Section 1-3-34 Year
The word "year" shall mean a calendar year, except where otherwise provided.
Article 1-4   REFERENCE TO CHAPTERS, ARTICLES OR SECTIONS: CONFLICTING
PROVISIONS
   
1-4-1   Additional Rules of Construction
   
1-4-2   References to this Code
   
1-4-3   Conflicting Provisions--Different Chapters
   
1-4-4   Conflicting Provisions--Same Chapter
Section 1-4-1   Additional Rules of Construction
In addition to the rules of construction specified in Articles
1-2 and
1-3, the rules set forth in this article shall be observed in the construction
of this code.
Section 1-4-2 References to this Code
All references to chapters, articles or sections are to the chapters, articles
and sections of this code unless otherwise specified.
Section 1-4-3 Conflicting Provisions--Different Chapters
If the provisions of different chapters of this code conflict with or
contravene each other, the provisions of each chapter shall prevail as to all
matters and questions growing out of the subject matter of such chapter.
Section 1-4-4 Conflicting Provisions--Same Chapter
If conflicting provisions are found in different sections of the same chapter,
the provisions of the section which is last in numerical order shall prevail
unless such construction is inconsistent with the meaning of such chapter.
Article 1-5   SECTION HEADINGS
Headings of the several sections of this code are intended as a convenience to
indicate the contents of the section and do not constitute part of the law.
Article 1-6   EFFECT OF REPEAL
When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision shall be
itself repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to revive such former
ordinance, clause or provision, unless it shall be expressly so provided. The
repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred
before the repeal took effect nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending
at the time of the repeal, for any offense committed under the ordinance
repealed.
Article 1-7   SEVERABILITY OF PARTS OF CODE
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the council that the sections,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code shall be severable,
and, if any provision of this code is held unconstitutional or invalid for any
reason by a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or
invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining provisions of the code.
Article 1-8   PENALTY **
   A.   Any person found guilty of violating any provisions of this code or
amendments thereto, except as otherwise provided in this code, shall be guilty
of a Class 1 misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a
fine of not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars, by imprisonment for a
period not to exceed six months in jail, by a term of probation not to exceed
three years, or by any combination of such fine, imprisonment and probation.
Each day that a violation continues shall be a separate offense punishable as
hereinabove described.
   B.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, any person found to
have violated any provision of this code, or amendments thereto, which by its
terms is classified as a civil offense, and who has been twice previously found
to have violated such provision within the preceding twenty-four months, shall,
in addition to any penalty prescribed for such civil offense, be guilty of a
Class 1 misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not to exceed two
thousand five hundred dollars, by imprisonment for a period not to exceed six
months in jail, by a term of probation not to exceed three years, or by any
combination of such fine, imprisonment and probation.
 
Notes
** **Ordinances 88-08, 89-26 and 01-01 in part; amended by Ordinance 2022-01
Article 1-9   PROSECUTION OF CIVIL OFFENSES
AND ENFORCEMENT OF SANCTIONS *
   
1-9-1   Imposition of Civil Sanctions
   
1-9-2   Commencement of Proceedings
   
1-9-3   Authority to Issue Citation or Complaint
   
1-9-4   Appearance by Defendant
   
1-9-5   Default Judgment
   
1-9-6   Rules of Procedure
   
1-9-7   Collection of Civil Sanctions
   
1-9-8   Civil Violation Bond Schedule
   
1-9-9   Prima Facie Responsibility for Motor Vehicle Location Violations
 
Notes
* *Ordinance 88-08, 88-10 and 01-01
Section 1-9-1 Imposition of Civil Sanctions
Any person committing a civil offense within the jurisdiction of the town shall
after being served with a citation therefor and upon admission or a finding of
responsible thereof before the town magistrate court, become liable to pay a
civil sanction which shall not exceed seven hundred fifty dollars per
violation.
Section 1-9-2 Commencement of Proceedings
   A.   An action to hear and determine a civil offense shall be commenced by
issuance of a citation as provided below, or by the issuance of a complaint by
the town prosecutor and service of a summons in the manner provided below.
   B.   A citation shall be in substantially the form of the Arizona traffic
ticket and complaint adopted under the Arizona rules of procedure in civil
traffic violation cases, or in such other form as may be provided from time to
time by resolution of the council.
   C.   Service of any citation or summons may be accomplished, and will be
deemed proper and complete, by any of the following methods:
      1.   By having the defendant sign the citation with a promise to appear
in court ten or more days after issuance of the citation.
      2.   If the defendant refuses to sign the citation, by hand delivering a
copy of the citation to the defendant, or if a summons has been issued by the
Town Magistrate Court, by hand delivering a summons to the defendant.
      3.   By mailing a copy of the citation or summons to the person charged
by first class mail, together with two copies of a Notice and Acknowledgment of
Citation or summons plus a return envelope, postage prepaid, addressed to
Carefree Municipal Court, to the person's last known address.
      4.   In the event service cannot be accomplished as set forth above, the
defendant may be served by any means allowed by the Arizona Rules of Civil
Procedure for the Superior Court.
      5.   By affixing a citation to any motor vehicle owned by the defendant
and the parking, location or abandonment of which constitute the civil offense
charged in the citation.
      6.   Where the defendant is a corporation, partnership or association,
the word “defendant” in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall mean a partner, an officer, a
managing or general agent or any other agent authorized by appointment or by
law to receive service of process.
Section 1-9-3 Authority to Issue Citation or Complaint
Any deputy sheriff, the town marshal and deputy marshals and, if more than
twenty-one years of age and appointed by the town magistrate to do so, the town
manager, town administrator, town clerk or town building official may issue and
serve a citation pursuant to this article. In addition, the town prosecutor may
issue and file a complaint in the Town Magistrate Court, in accordance with
Rule 2.3 of the Arizona Rules of Criminal Procedure, charging any violation of
the provisions of this code.
Section 1-9-4  *  Appearance by Defendant
The defendant shall appear at the time specified in the citation, either in
person or through his attorney, before the town magistrate court and shall
either admit or deny the allegations contained in the citation. If the
defendant admits commission of the offense, the court shall enter judgment
against the defendant and, in its discretion, may impose a civil sanction for
the violation for up to the amount provided in Section
1-9-1. If the defendant denies the allegations contained in the citation, the
court shall set a date for a civil hearing of the matter.
 
Notes
* *Ordinances 88-10 and 01-01
Section 1-9-5 Default Judgment
   A.   If the defendant fails to appear as directed in the citation, the court
shall enter a default judgment and may, in its discretion, impose a civil
sanction for the violation for up to the amount provided in Section
1-9-1.
   B.   If the defendant fails to appear for a pre-trial conference or civil
hearing, the defendant's failure to appear shall be deemed an admission of the
offense, and the court shall enter judgment against the defendant and may, in
its discretion, impose a civil sanction for the violation for up to the amount
provided in Section
1-9-1.
Section 1-9-6 Rules of Procedure *
The Arizona Rules of Court for Civil Traffic Violation Cases shall be followed
by the town magistrate court for proceedings under this article, except as
modified by or where inconsistent with the provisions of this article, the
local rules of said court or any applicable rules of the Arizona Supreme Court.
 
Notes
* * Ordinances 88-10 and 01-01
Section 1-9-7 Collection of Civil Sanctions
Any judgment for civil sanctions entered pursuant to the procedures specified
in this article may be collected in the same manner as other civil judgment in
justice of the peace courts in the State of Arizona.
Section 1-9-8 Civil Violation Bond Schedule
The town magistrate shall, from time to time, establish and revise a schedule
of appearance bonds, not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars, for alleged
civil violations of the town code. At any time following issuance of a citation
issued pursuant to this article, the town magistrate court may require the
defendant to deposit the appropriate bond with the court. The town magistrate
court shall retain such bond pending final disposition of the civil charge. If
the defendant is found to be not responsible for the alleged civil violation,
or if the charge is otherwise dismissed, the bond shall be refunded to the
defendant as soon as is practicable. If the defendant is found to be
responsible for the alleged civil violation, or if a default judgment is
entered against the defendant pursuant to Section
1-9-5, the bond may be ordered forfeited by the court to the extent of any
civil sanction imposed and applied toward such sanction, with the balance of
the bond, if any, to be refunded to the defendant as soon as is practicable.
Section 1-9-9 Prima Facie Responsibility for Motor Vehicle Location Violations
In any proceedings alleging the commission of a civil offense by reason of the
parking, location or abandonment of any motor vehicle at any time or place, or
under any circumstances, which constitute a violation of this code, the
registered owner of such motor vehicle and/or the owner of recorded title to
the premises on which the alleged violation occurred shall be held prima facie
responsible for any such violation and shall be subject to paying the sanction
provided for such violation, provided, however, that any such vehicle owner or
landowner may prove as a matter of affirmative defense that some other
specifically identified person committed the civil offense complained of, or
that it was committed without his knowledge and was corrected within twenty-
four hours after he received a citation with respect thereto.
Article 1-10   REPEAL OF EXISTING ORDINANCES
   
1-10-1   Effective Date of Repeal
   
1-10-2   Ordinances Exempt from Repeal
Section 1-10-1 Effective Date of Repeal
All ordinances of the town now in force and effect, except those specially
exempted in this article, now in force and effect are hereby repealed effective
at twelve o'clock noon on Thursday, April 14, 1989 but all rights, duties and
obligations created by said ordinances and existing prior to their repeal shall
continue and exist in all respects as if this code had not been adopted and
enacted.
Section 1-10-2 Ordinances Exempt from Repeal
The adoption and enactment of this code shall not be construed to repeal or in
any way to modify or affect:
   A.   Any special ordinance or ordinances regarding franchises, annexations,
dedications, vacations or zoning.
   B.   Any ordinance making an appropriation.
   C.   The running of the statute of limitations in force at the time this
code becomes effective.
   D.   Any ordinance legislating the existence and operation of any
department, agency, commission or office heretofore legally established or
held.
   E.   Any bond of any public officer.
   F.   Any taxes, fees, assessments or other charges incurred or imposed.
   G.   Any ordinances authorizing, ratifying, confirming, approving or
accepting any compact, contract or transfer with, to or from the State of
Arizona or any county or subdivision thereof, or the United States or any
agency or instrumentality thereof.
   H.   Any ordinances hereinbefore adopted which are specifically incorporated
by reference herein and ratified hereby.
Article 1-11   EFFECTIVE DATE OF CODE
Each and every section of this code as herein contained and hereby enacted
shall take effect and be in force on and after twelve o'clock noon on Thursday,
April 14, 1989 except that where a later effective date is provided it shall
prevail.
CHAPTER 2 MAYOR AND COUNCIL
Article 2-1   COUNCIL
   
2-1-1   Council Members
   
2-1-2   Corporate Powers
   
2-1-3   Vacancies among Council Members
   
2-1-4   Compensation
   
2-1-5   Oath of Office and Code of Conduct
   
2-1-6   Disclosure of Acceptance of Gifts and Favors
   
2-1-7   Bond
   
2-1-8   Financial Disclosure Statement
   
2-1-9   Limitation of Terms
   
2-1-10   Use of Staff
   
2-1-11   Sanctions
Section 2-1-1   Council Members *
The town council of the town shall be seven council members. The mayor shall be
elected, and in the case of a vacancy occurring on the council during the term
for which the mayor was elected, succession will follow the manner prescribed
herein. Members of the council shall be elected, or in the case of a vacancy
occurring on the council during the term for which the council member was
elected, appointment in the prescribed manner for the remainder of the term by
the members of the council. The members of the council, whether elected or
appointed, shall continue in office until their successors shall assume the
position and sworn into office.
Elected officers shall serve four year terms, commencing on the date of the
next council meeting following the canvass of the general election at which
they were elected. For appointed council members, they shall assume the duties
of their office immediately following their appointment by the council, and
shall continue to serve until the end of the term during which they were
appointed as prescribed herein.
Each of the council members of the town shall be a resident of the town of
Carefree and shall have been a resident of the town for a minimum of one year
at the time of election as more fully set forth in A.R.S. § 16-311.
 
Notes
* *Ordinance 2016-01
  Amended by Resolution 2022-15.
Section 2-1-2 Corporate Powers
The corporate powers of the town shall be vested in the council and shall be
exercised only as directed or authorized by law. All powers of the council
shall be exercised by ordinance, resolution, order or motion.
Section 2-1-3 Vacancies among Council Members *
In the event of a vacancy in any of the six council member positions for any
reason, including death, resignation, disqualification, assumption of mayoral
office or permanent disability, the council, including the mayor, shall appoint
by majority vote a duly qualified person to fill the unexpired term of the
vacant position. The newly appointed councilmember shall assume the duties of
his office at the meeting at which he is appointed.
 
Notes
* *Ordinance 2016-01
Section 2-1-4 Compensation
The compensation of elective officers of the town shall be fixed from time to
time by resolution of the council.
Section 2-1-5 Oath of Office and Code of Conduct *
Immediately prior to assumption of the duties of office, each council member,
including the mayor, shall, in public, take and execute the oath of office and
the Code of Conduct (Resolution #2016-02).
 
Notes
* *Ordinance 2016-01
Section 2-1-6 Disclosure of Acceptance of Gifts and Favors *
Arizona law prohibits elected officials, and advisory and appointed board or
commission members, from receiving anything of value or any compensation other
than their designated salary for any service rendered in connection with that
person's duties with the town as set forth in A.R.S. § 38-505(A). Elected and
appointed officials, and advisory and appointed board and commission members
must consider ethical principles before accepting personal gifts of
entertainment and sports/athletic activities.
Within two business days of receipt of the following gifts or favors, or within
two business days of returning to Carefree after receipt of a gift of favor
while traveling outside of Carefree, elected officials and advisory board and
commission members shall disclose in writing to the town clerk all gifts,
benefits, or favors received from people with a financial interest in business
before the Town, or which may come before the Town, that:
   A.   Relate to professional or collegiate sports, athletic, or entertainment
activities or tickets, or
   B.   Have a face value of $50 or more, amount subject to periodic review.
Under no circumstances shall a council or board member accept a gift or favor
that is a bribe, or reflects, to a reasonable person, an effort to improperly
influence the member contrary to that member's responsibility to the public to
act impartially and on the merits of a matter. When in doubt about these
requirements, elected officials and advisory board members shall disclose the
gift, benefit or favor. All disclosures will be kept for public record.
 
Notes
* *Ordinance 2016-01
Section 2-1-7 Bond
Prior to taking office, every councilmember shall execute and file an official
bond, enforceable against the principal and his sureties, conditioned on the
due and faithful performance of his official duties, payable to the state and
to and for the use and benefit of the town or any person who may be injured or
aggrieved by the wrongful act or default of such officer in his official
capacity. A person so injured or aggrieved may bring suit on such bond under
provisions identical to those contained in Section 38-260 of the Arizona
Revised Statutes. Bonds shall be in such sum as shall be provided by the
council, and the premium for such bonds shall be paid by the town.
Section 2-1-8 Financial Disclosure Statement 1
The mayor and each councilmember shall file by January 31 of each year or
within sixty days of their filling a vacancy on the town council, on a form
prescribed by the clerk, a financial disclosure statement setting forth such
information as determined by resolution of the council. That certain document
entitled An Ordinance of the Town of Carefree Prescribing Standards of
Financial Disclosure by Local Elected Officials adopted by Ordinance 84-2 is
hereby ratified and made a part of this code the same as if specifically
reenacted hereby. At least three copies of said ordinance shall be kept on file
in the office of the town clerk.
 
Notes
1 **Ordinance 84-2
Section 2-1-9 Limitation of Terms 1
No person shall be eligible to be elected or appointed to the office of
councilmember for more than two consecutive four-year terms, and no person
shall be eligible to be elected or appointed to the office of mayor for more
than two consecutive four-year terms. No person who serves as councilmember or
mayor for two consecutive terms shall be eligible to hold either office until
four years have elapsed.
The six persons elected or appointed to the offices of councilmember shall
serve staggered terms of four years.
The six councilmember positions will be divided into two classes. The first
class, composed of the three councilmembers who received the fewest number of
votes in the 2022 general election, will hold office until the next general
election in 2024. The second class, composed of the three remaining
councilmembers who received the highest number of votes in the 2022 general
election, will hold office for terms of four years each and until their
successors are elected and qualified.
Therefore, at the first regular election held in 2024 after the adoption of
this system, three councilmembers will be elected. Thereafter, members of the
council will be elected in classes of three at successive, regular elections
and will hold office for one four-year term and until their successors are
elected and qualified.
 
Notes
1 ***Resolution 2022-15
Section 2-1-10 Use of Staff  *
Under the council-town administrator form of government, the council appoints a
town administrator, who directs the day-to-day operations of all town
employees. All members of the council shall be cognizant of the role of the
town administrator and town staff. All members of the council shall coordinate
with the town administrator when dealing with the town staff.
A member of the council may ask a member of the town staff for information or
status of a matter. However, council members shall not expressly or implicitly
give order or direction to town staff except through his or her participation
on the council. Council members shall not try to privately influence the
decisions or recommendations of town staff members, but they may share
information.
Council, advisory board, commission and committee members shall not intervene
directly with town staff members on behalf of a particular constituent or
organization on a pending matter, but shall participate with council or board
colleagues in discussion and deciding policy matters for the town staff to
carry out.
 
Notes
* *Ordinance 2016-01
Section 2-1-11 Sanctions  *
Sanctions should not be approached lightly, utilized as a form of punishment
for a differing point of view, or used as a way to try to silence or discredit
any individual who is serving Carefree in an official capacity. Sanctions may
be considered only where an elected or appointed official exhibits
unprofessional behavior in such an egregious manner while participating in town
activities so as to be detrimental to the functioning of the council, advisory
board, commission or committee upon which they are serving and the behavior
prevents, significantly restricts, or undermines the achievement of one or more
of the town's priorities.
When sanctions are being considered for any elected official, the individual
shall be apprised of the specific behavior for which the sanctions are being
considered. The specific unprofessional behavior shall be identified and
addressed by two or more council members as an agenda item in a regularly
scheduled council meeting. Additionally, independent legal or other experts may
be utilized by the remaining council for the purpose of an unbiased
investigation. Following the first regularly scheduled council meeting, that
matter shall be considered at a second regularly scheduled council meeting, at
which time the individual being considered for sanctions shall be given the
opportunity to respond and defend his or her behavior. Town officials and
members of the public shall also be provided with the opportunity to voice
viewpoints in the second council meeting. After comments, council members shall
be given the opportunity to ask questions directly pertaining to the situation
and behavior exhibited. All disputes and verified complaints shall be resolved
by swift and inexpensive mediation by an objective third-party. The Carefree
municipal court judge shall appoint an industry professional as the sole
mediator to hear a dispute. The mediator shall employ such rules and procedures
to ensure due process but also to affect a swift and inexpensive proceeding.
Thereafter, a vote shall be taken. Sanctions shall only be imposed by a
majority vote of the council.
Elected and appointed officials who are found to have violated the behavioral
and/or related requirements of the Town Code and/or the Code of Conduct shall
be reprimanded or formally censured by the council, and potentially have
sanctions imposed. The council will consider the severity of the violation(s)
in determining if sanctions are to be imposed. Such sanctions may include the
following and shall be binding and not appealable:
   A.   For council members: They may have their participation in town
assignments terminated (other than directly participating in regular and
special meetings of the council), both within the town of Carefree and/or with
inter-governmental agencies, for a period of up to one year; and they may have
official travel restricted.
   B.   For non-council members: To have their participation terminated in the
advisory board, committee or commission upon which they serve.
 
Notes
* *Ordinance 2016-01
Article 2-2   MAYOR
   
2-2-1   Selection of Mayor; Vacancy
   
2-2-2   Vice Mayor
   
2-2-3   Acting Mayor
   
2-2-4   Powers and Duties of the Mayor
   
2-2-5   Failure to Sign Documents
   
2-2-6   Powers and Duties of Council Members
Section 2-2-1   Selection of Mayor; Vacancy *
The mayor shall be directly elected by vote of qualified electors. Any
candidate who shall receive at the primary election a majority of all votes
cast for mayor shall be declared elected to office, and no further election
shall be held. In the event that no candidate shall receive a majority of votes
cast for mayor in the primary election, Section
2-3-3 of the town code shall apply. The first direct election for the mayor
shall be in 2011. The term of mayor shall be four years. In the event of a
vacancy in the office of mayor for any reason, including death, resignation,
disqualification or permanent disability, the vice mayor shall become mayor for
the balance of the election term.
 
Notes
  *Ordinance 89-09 and 2016-01
* Amended by initiative approved by voters 5-19-2009, 11-2-2010, and Resolution
  2022-15.
Section 2-2-2 Vice Mayor 1
At the council meeting at which the mayor assumes the duties of office as set
forth in Section
2-1-1 of this code, the council shall elect one of its members, other than the
mayor, to be the vice mayor. The vice mayor shall serve at the pleasure of the
council and assist the mayor in the performance of the required duties and
shall perform the duties of the mayor during the mayor's absence or disability.
 
Notes
1 **Ordinance 2016-01
Section 2-2-3 Acting Mayor  **
In the temporary absence of both the mayor and vice mayor, council may
designate another of its members to serve as acting mayor until the mayor or
vice mayor return to service. The acting mayor shall have all the powers,
duties and responsibilities of the mayor during any such temporary absence or
disability.
 
Notes
** **Ordinance 2016-01
Section 2-2-4 Powers and Duties of the Mayor  **
The powers and duties of the mayor shall include the following:
   A.   Be the chief executive officer of the town.
   B.   Place the interest of the town ahead of all personal interests.
   C.   Be aware of and knowledgeable of the major issues which the town is
addressing so as to be able to take informed leadership of and make an informed
decision or opinion regarding the issues which may come before the council. The
mayor shall also provide input to and make such recommendations to the council
as he or she may consider proper.
   D.   Lead and preside over regular and special council meetings, and
executive sessions. The mayor may make and second motions and shall have a
voice and vote in all its proceedings.
   E.   Enforce the provisions of this code.
   F.   Execute and authenticate by his or her signature, such instruments as
the council or any statutes, ordinances or this code shall require.
   G.   By proclamation, declare a local emergency to exist due to fire,
conflagration, flood, earthquake, explosion, war, bombing or any other natural
or man-made calamity or disaster or in the event of the threat or occurrence of
riot, rout or affray or other acts of civil disobedience which endanger life or
property within the town. After declaration of such emergency and during the
pendency thereof, the mayor may govern by proclamation and impose all necessary
regulations to preserve the peace and order of the town, including but not
limited to:
      1.   Imposition of a curfew in all or any portion of the town.
      2.   Ordering the closing of any business.
      3.   Closing to public access any public building, street or other public
place.
      4.   Calling upon regular or auxiliary law enforcement agencies and
organizations within or outside of the political subdivision for assistance.
A majority of the council may terminate the exercise of such emergency powers
by the mayor.
   H.   Take a leadership role in determining the appropriate long-term
strategy which best suits the town.
   I.   Take the leadership role in projects to help further town priorities.
   J.   Serve as a volunteer on special projects, when requested by the
designated special project leader.
   K.   Execute and abide by the Code of Conduct.
   L.   Perform such other duties required by state statute and this code as
well as those duties required as chief executive officer of the town.
 
Notes
** **Ordinance 2016-01
Section 2-2-5 Failure to Sign Documents
If the mayor refuses or fails to sign any ordinance, resolution, contract,
warrant, demand or other document or instrument requiring his signature for
five days consecutively, then a majority of the members of the council may, at
any regular or special meeting, authorize the vice mayor or, in his absence, an
acting mayor to sign such ordinance, resolution, contract, warrant, demand or
other document or instrument which when so signed shall have the same force and
effect as if signed by the mayor.
Section 2-2-6 Powers and Duties of Council Members 1
The council members function as the board of directors for Carefree. Council
members for Carefree have two broad functions:
   A.   Like a traditional board of directors, council members help steer the
town towards an enjoyable living situation for its residents and businesses, as
well as a sustainable future by adopting sound, ethical, and legal governance
and financial management policies, and
   B.   Because of the population of the town and the necessity to provide the
services desired from government, vet maintain a compact and efficient town
staff and operating approach, council members are also expected to assist in
the development of priority projects which the council deems important to the
town.
The powers and duties for each councilmember shall be:
   A.   Place the interests of the town ahead of all personal interests.
   B.   Be aware of and knowledgeable of the major issues which the town is
addressing so as to be able to make an informed decisions regarding the issues
which may come before the council. Every councilmember shall also provide input
to and make such recommendations to the council as may appropriate.
   C.   Take the initiative to develop ideas and concepts to further the
interests of the town, and bring them forward to the council for discussion and
consideration.
   D.   Participate in regular and special council meetings, and executive
sessions.
   E.   To take a leadership role in specific special town projects to help
further town priorities, when requested by the mayor upon volunteering and
presenting to the council or authorized by a majority vote of the council.
   F.   Serve as a volunteer on special projects, when requested by the
designated special project leader.
   G.   To treat fellow council members, town staff, residents and vendors to
the town in a cordial and truthful manner as identified in the Code of Conduct,
recognizing that every officer of the town is an ambassador for the town.
   H.   Execute and abide by the Code of Conduct.
 
Notes
1 **Ordinance 2016-01
Article 2-3   COUNCIL ELECTION  *
   
2-3-1   Primary Election
   
2-3-2   Non-Partisan Ballot
   
2-3-3   General Election
   
2-3-4   Candidate Financial Disclosure
 
Notes
* *Ordinance 2016-01
Section 2-3-1 Primary Election
   A.   There will be two elections, one for mayor and another for the six
council positions, in the primary election:
      1.   For the election for the mayor, any candidate who shall receive at
the primary election a majority of all the valid votes cast for that office
shall be declared to be elected to the office of mayor effective as of the date
of the general election, and no further election shall be held. If no candidate
receives a majority of the valid number of votes cast, then the two candidates
receiving the highest number of qualified votes will proceed into the general
election.
      2.   For the election of the six councilmember positions, if any (but up
to six) of the candidates running for this position shall receive at the
primary election a majority of the valid votes cast for this position, they
shall be deemed elected. The number of council seats remaining after the
primary election for which a candidate(s) did not receive a majority of all
valid votes cast for that position(s), if any, will have a runoff election to
determine which candidate will fill the remaining positions on council.
   B.   If more candidates for either election receive a majority of the valid
votes cast than the number of offices to be filled, then those equal in number
to the offices to be filled receiving the highest number of qualified votes
shall be declared elected.
   C.   No person may simultaneously run in the Primary Election in both the
election for mayor and in the election for one of the six council positions.
Section 2-3-2 Non-Partisan Ballot
Elections shall be non-partisan, and nothing on the ballot in any election
shall be indicative of partisan support of a candidate.
Section 2-3-3 General Election
   A.   Only candidates who participated in and were one of the top vote
getters in the primary election, as defined and limited in the following, may
be a candidate in the General Election.
      1.   For the election for mayor, if no candidate in the primary election
receives a majority of the valid votes cast for the office, then the top two
candidates shall be voted upon in the general election. The candidates shall be
those candidates receiving the highest number of qualified votes in the primary
election, including any ties if the number of votes received by each candidate
places them within the top two vote receiving candidates. In the event of a tie
vote in the general election, the winner shall be decided as provided by
Arizona law.
      2.   For the election of each of the six council members, the candidates
with the highest valid vote totals in the general election that is equal to the
number of council positions not filled at the primary election shall be
declared elected. In the event of a tie vote in the general election, the
winner shall be decided as provided by Arizona law.
   B.   The number of candidates in the general election may be up to twice the
number of vacancies remaining after the primary election, and the candidates
shall be the top vote getters, plus any ties, not receiving a majority in the
primary election.
   C.   No person may simultaneously run in the General Election in both the
election for mayor and in the election for one of the council positions
unfilled in the primary election.
Section 2-3-4 Candidate Financial Disclosure
Each candidate for the office of councilmember shall file a financial
disclosure statement on a form prescribed by the clerk when such candidate
files a nomination paper. The statement shall contain the same information as
required to be supplied by the mayor and each councilmember pursuant to the
provisions of Section
2-1-8 hereof and Ordinance 84-2 prescribing standards of financial disclosure
by local elected officials.
Article 2-4   COUNCIL PROCEDURE
   
2-4-1   Regular Meetings
   
2-4-2   Notice and Cancellation of Meetings
   
2-4-3   Special Meetings
   
2-4-4   Meetings to Be Public
   
2-4-5   Quorum
   
2-4-6   Agenda
   
2-4-7   Order of Business
   
2-4-8   Committees and Commissions
   
2-4-9   Voting
   
2-4-10   Suspension of Rules
Section 2-4-1 Regular Meetings  *
The council shall hold regular meetings on the first Tuesday of each month at
5:00 p.m., provided that when the day fixed for any regular meeting of the
council falls upon a day designated by law as a legal holiday or election day,
such meeting shall be held at the same hour within one week of the legal
holiday or election day, as designated by the council. All regular meetings of
the council shall be held at the town hall or such other place as may be
designated in the public notice of the meeting.
 
Notes
* *Ordinance 87-10 and 2016-01
Section 2-4-2 Notice and Cancellation of Meetings 1
Public notice of such regular meetings shall be promptly posted in accordance
with the provisions of A.R.S. § 38-431.02 at the town hall. A statement of such
place for notices shall be filed with the town clerk. Cancellation of any
meeting properly noticed hereunder may be effected by posting public notice
thereof not less than twenty-four hours in advance of the time set for such
regular meeting of the council.
 
Notes
1 **Ordinances 85-17 and 91-08.
Section 2-4-3 Special Meetings 1
The mayor may convene the council at any time by notifying the members of the
council of the date, hour and purpose of a special meeting. The clerk, upon the
request of three members of the council, may also convene the council at any
time by notifying the members thereof of the date, hour and purpose of the
special meeting. The public shall be given at least twenty-four hours notice of
any such special meeting and the agenda of business to be considered thereat by
the posting of such notice and agenda in at least two public places; except
that in the case of an actual emergency, a meeting may be held upon such notice
as is appropriate to the circumstances and in accordance with law.
 
Notes
1 ***Ordinance 84-1 and 2016-01
Section 2-4-4 Meetings to Be Public
All proceedings of the council shall be open to the public, except that upon
approval by a majority vote of the council, the council may meet in a closed
executive session pursuant to the provisions of A.R.S. § 38-431.03. Notice of
meetings shall be given in a manner consistent with state statutes.
Section 2-4-5 Quorum 1
The appearance of four or more members shall constitute a majority of the
council and shall constitute a quorum for transacting business.
 
Notes
1 *Ordinance 2016-01
Section 2-4-6 Agenda  *
Prior to each council meeting, or on or before a time fixed by the council for
preparation and distribution of an agenda, whichever is earlier, the clerk
shall collect all written reports, communications, ordinances, resolutions,
contracts and other documents to be submitted to the council, prepare an agenda
including all matters scheduled to be considered or requested to be placed on
the agenda by any two members of the council and furnish each councilmember,
the mayor and the attorney with a copy of the agenda and any material pertinent
thereto.
 
Notes
* *Ordinance 2016-01
Section 2-4-7 Order of Business **
The business of the council shall be taken up for consideration and disposition
in an order set by the council and shall include the following:
   A.   Call to Order. The mayor shall call the council to order at the
appointed time. In the absence of the mayor, the vice mayor shall call the
council to order. In the absence of both the mayor and the vice mayor, an
acting mayor shall be selected to chair the meeting. Upon the arrival of the
mayor or the vice mayor, the vice mayor or the acting mayor shall relinquish
the chair upon the conclusion of the business then pending before the council.
The mayor shall preserve order and decorum, decide all questions of order and
conduct the proceedings of the meetings in accordance with his discretion or,
upon motion duly adopted upon any specific occasion, then in accordance with
the parliamentary rules contained in Robert's Rules of Order unless otherwise
specified in said motion.
   B.   Roll Call. Before proceeding with the business of the council, the
clerk or his deputy shall call the roll of the members, and the names of those
present shall be entered in the minutes. If a quorum is not present, the
members present may adjourn pursuant to Section
2-4-5  of this code.
   C.   Consent Agenda
      1.   When any item of business requires action by the council, but is of
a routine and noncontroversial nature, such item may be presented at a regular
meeting of the council as part of a consent agenda.
      2.   The consent agenda shall be introduced by a motion "To approve the
Consent Agenda," and shall be considered by the council as a single item.
      3.   There shall be no debate or discussion by any member of the council
regarding any item on the consent agenda, beyond asking questions for simple
clarification.
      4.   All items on the consent agenda which require public hearings shall
be open for hearing simultaneously, and the mayor shall announce, or direct the
town clerk to announce, the titles of all such items.
      5.   Upon objection by any member of the council to inclusion of any item
on the consent agenda, that item shall be removed from the consent agenda
forthwith. Such objections may be recorded at any time prior to the taking of a
vote on the motion to approve the consent agenda. All such items shall be
considered individually, in the order in which they were objected to,
immediately following consideration of the consent agenda.
      6.   Approval of the motion to approve the consent agenda shall be fully
equivalent to approval, adoption or enactment of each motion, resolution,
ordinance or other item of business thereon, exactly as if each had been acted
upon individually.
   D.   Minutes. If not covered by the consent agenda, the clerk or his deputy
shall read or present the minutes of the preceding council meeting, which shall
be approved if correct. Any errors noted shall be corrected.
   E.   Claims. If not covered by the consent agenda, the clerk shall present
any claims against the town and report all payments thereof, which will then be
approved or disapproved by the council.
   F.   Conduct of Business. The council shall consider and if desired take
action upon any town business or problem that has been placed on the agenda,
whether or not previously considered, including the introduction and passage of
motions, ordinances and resolutions relating to the governance of the town or
the conduct of persons within its jurisdiction.
   G.   Call to Public. Petitions, remonstrances, communications and comments
or suggestions from citizens present, shall be heard by the council. All such
remarks shall be addressed to the council as a whole, and not to any member
thereof. Pursuant to A.R.S. § 38-431.01(H), those wishing to address the
council need not request permission in advance of the meeting. The public may
address the council on matters not on the agenda. At the conclusion of an open
call to the public, individual members of the public body may respond to
criticism made by those who have addressed the public body, may ask staff to
review a matter, direct staff to study the matter, reschedule the matter for
further consideration and decision at a later date, or may ask that a matter be
put on a future agenda. However, the council may not discuss or take legal
action at that time. Those addressing the council will be asked to limit their
comments to not more than three minutes. No question shall be asked a
councilmember except through the presiding officer.
   H.   Adjournment. The council may, by a majority vote of those present,
adjourn from time to time to a specific date and hour. A motion to adjourn
shall always be in order and decided without debate.
 
Notes
** **Amended by Ordinance 05-07 and 2016-01
Section 2-4-8 Committees and Commissions
The council may create such committees and commissions, standing or special, as
it deems necessary. They shall consist of as many members and shall perform
such duties as the council may require and shall exist at the pleasure of the
council.
Section 2-4-9 Voting
   A.   The mayor shall vote as a member of the council.
   B.   Upon the request of any member or when required by the provisions of
Section
2-5-4, the ayes and nays upon any question shall be taken and entered in the
minutes.
Section 2-4-10 Suspension of Rules
Any of the provisions of this article may be temporarily suspended in
connection with any matter under consideration by a recorded vote of three-
fourths of the members present, except that this section shall not be construed
to permit any action that is contrary to state statutes.
Article 2-5   ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND CONTRACTS *
   
2-5-1   Ordinances
   
2-5-2   Codification of Ordinances
   
2-5-2   Effective Date of Ordinances
   
2-5-3   Signatures Required
   
2-5-4   Publishing Required
   
2-5-5   Posting Required
 
Notes
* *Ordinance 2016-01
Section 2-5-1 Ordinances
   A.   Ordinances which are reviewed and publicly vetted by the planning and
zoning commission shall require one reading before the town council. At this
reading, the town council shall take the planning and zoning commission's
recommendation under advisement and shall vote upon the respective ordinance.
   B.   All other town ordinances shall be passed and become effective after
two readings of the ordinance. At the initial reading, the ordinance shall be
introduced and discussed. At the second reading, the ordinance may be further
discussed, refined, and voted upon by the town council. If passed by a majority
of the council, it shall become valid and binding as set forth in this code.
   C.   Pursuant to section
2-4-6 of this code, ordinances can be placed on the council agenda for
consideration by the council by the mayor, by any two council members, or by
the town administrator.
Section 2-5-2 Codification of Ordinances
Whenever possible, each ordinance shall be introduced as an amendment to this
code or to an existing ordinance, and, in such case, the title of the sections
to be amended shall be included in the ordinance.
Section 2-5-3 Effective Date of Ordinances
No ordinance, resolution or franchise shall become operative until thirty days
after its passage by the council and approval by the mayor, except measures
necessary for the immediate preservation of the peace, health or safety of the
town, but such an emergency measure shall not become immediately operative
unless it states in a separate section the reason why it is necessary that it
should become immediately operative, and unless it is approved by the
affirmative vote of three- fourths of all the members elected to the council,
taken by ayes and nays.
Section 2-5-4 Signatures Required
Every ordinance passed by the council shall, before it becomes effective, be
signed by the mayor and attested by the clerk.
Section 2-5-5 Publishing Required
Only such ordinances, orders, resolutions, motions, regulations or proceedings
of the council shall be published as may be required by state statutes or
expressly ordered by the council. Ordinances shall be published once each week
for two consecutive weeks in a weekly newspaper or four consecutive times in a
daily newspaper of general circulation.
Section 2-5-6 Posting Required
Every ordinance imposing any penalty, fine, forfeiture or other punishment
shall, after passage, be posted by the clerk in three or more public places
within the town and an affidavit of the person who posted the ordinance shall
be filed in the office of the clerk as proof of posting.
Article 2-6   INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM  **
   
2-6-1   Power Reserved; Time of Election
   
2-6-2   Number of Signatures and Procedures for Verifying Signatures
   
2-6-3   Time of Filing
   
2-6-4   Sample Ballots and Publicity Pamphlets
 
Notes
** **Ordinances 85-23, 86-11, 92-08, 94-07 and 94-15
Section 2-6-1 Power Reserved; Time of Election
There is reserved to the qualified electors of the town the power of the
initiative and the referendum as prescribed by the state constitution. Any
initiative or referendum matter may be voted on at the next ensuing primary or
general election, or at a special election called by the council for such
purpose.
Section 2-6-2 Number of Signatures and Procedures for Verifying Signatures 1
   A.   The basis upon which the number of qualified electors of the town
required to file an initiative petition shall be fifteen percent (15%) of total
ballots cast at the town election at which a mayor or councilmember was chosen
last preceding the submission of the application as determined by the Maricopa
County Elections Department.
   B.   The basis upon which the number of qualified electors of the town
required to file a referendum petition shall be ten percent (10%) of total
ballots cast at the town election at which a mayor or councilmember was chosen
last preceding the submission of the application as determined by the Maricopa
County Elections Department.
   C.   The procedure for verifying signatures on initiative and referendum
petitions shall be as set forth in A.R.S. § 19-121.01 and 19-121.02.
 
Notes
1 *Amended by Ordinance 2010-09
Section 2-6-3 Time of Filing
   A.   Initiative petitions shall be filed at least one hundred twenty days
prior to the election at which they are to be voted upon.
   B.   Referendum petitions shall be filed within thirty days of the adoption
of the ordinance or resolution to be referred. If the town clerk is unable to
provide petitioners with a copy of the ordinance or resolution at the time of
application for an official number or on the same business day of the
application, the thirty day period shall be calculated from the date such
ordinance or resolution is available.
Section 2-6-4 Sample Ballots and Publicity Pamphlets 1
The following procedures relating to sample ballots and publicity pamphlets are
hereby adopted for conducting elections at which an initiative or referendum is
to be voted upon:
   A.   One sample ballot form, containing the entire text of the official
ballot, shall be mailed by the town clerk to each household within the town in
which a registered voter resides, not less than ten days prior to the election
to which the sample ballot pertains.
   B.   The pamphlet shall contain the proposition as it will appear on the
ballot together with a summary of each proposition. Each summary shall be
followed by any arguments supporting the proposition followed by any arguments
opposing the proposition. Arguments submitted by the person filing the
initiative or referendum shall appear first. The remaining arguments shall be
placed in the order in which they were filed.
   C.   Arguments supporting and opposing propositions appearing on the ballot
shall be filed with the office of the town clerk by 5:00 p.m. not less than
ninety days prior to the election at which the propositions are to be voted
upon. If time does not permit compliance with the ninety day deadline, the town
clerk may establish a separate deadline for filing referendum ballot arguments.
Arguments supporting or opposing propositions appearing on the ballot shall
meet the following requirements:
      1.   Arguments must relate to the propositions proposed by initiative or
referred by referendum which will appear on the ballot.
      2.   Arguments must identify the proposition to which they refer and
indicate whether the argument is in support of or opposition to the
proposition.
      3.   Arguments may not exceed three hundred words in length.
      4.   Arguments must contain the original signature of each person
sponsoring it. Arguments submitted by organizations shall be signed by two
executive officers of the organization, or if the argument is sponsored by a
political committee, it must be signed by the committee's chairman or
treasurer. All persons signing documents shall indicate their residence or post
office address and a telephone number, which information shall not appear in
the publicity pamphlet.
      5.   No person or organization shall submit more than one argument for
each proposition to be voted upon.
      6.   Each argument shall be accompanied by a deposit in the amount of
$100 to offset proportional costs of printing. This requirement shall not be
waived on any account. If the proportional costs of printing are less than the
amount deposited, the excess shall be refunded to the depositor at such time as
final costs are determined.
 
Notes
1 *Amended by Ordinances 2009-01, 2010-13
Article 2-7   INDEMNIFICATION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES  *
   
2-7-1   Persons Covered
   
2-7-2   Indemnification and Protection of Town Officials
   
2-7-3   Insurance Coverage
   
2-7-4   Notice of Claims
   
2-7-5   Effective Date
 
Notes
* *Ordinances 86-12; 89-10 and 04-13
Section 2-7-1 Persons Covered
All of the protections and benefits conferred by this article shall be enjoyed
by any present or former mayor, vice mayor and each and all of the present or
former members of the council, town officers, town magistrates and town
employees and every one of the members of all town boards and commissions,
subcommittees and advisory committees, which protected parties are hereinafter
referred to individually as a "town officer" and collectively or jointly as
"town officials".
Section 2-7-2 Indemnification and Protection of Town Officials 1
   A.   Any town officer and all town officials shall be exonerated,
indemnified and held harmless by the town from and against any liability or
loss arising from a civil complaint filed in federal or state court naming the
town officer or official or arising from a criminal investigation or criminal
proceeding of the town officer or official in which the civil liability of such
individual is alleged to arise from acts or omissions of such individual acting
in the course and scope of employment or duties performed on behalf of the
town, provided such officer or official acted, or failed to act lawfully, in
good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be lawful and in,
or not opposed to, the best interests of the town. The town shall not provide
legal defense or indemnification or exoneration in any civil litigation or
criminal investigation or criminal proceedings for or on behalf of any town
officer or official against whom a claim is filed or made where the actual
activities of such individual giving rise to the claim were outside the course
and scope of employment of such individual as an officer or official of the
town, or beyond the duties of such individual as an officer or official of the
town.
   B.   The right to indemnification provided for in subsection A of this
section shall extend as well to any civil complaint filed in federal or state
court naming the town officer or official and to any criminal investigation or
criminal proceeding of the town officer or official filed or instituted by, or
on behalf of, the town to recover damages alleged to have been occasioned to
it, or any of its property, by any act or failure to act of any town officer or
official, except that no indemnification or exoneration shall be made in
respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which such town officer or official
shall have been adjudged to be liable to the town unless and only to the extent
that the court in rendering such judgment shall determine upon application
that, despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all circumstances of
the case, such officer or official is fairly and reasonably entitled to
indemnity for such expenses as such court may deem proper. The court in which
any such action or suit was brought may determine upon application that, in
view of all of the circumstances of the case, indemnity for amounts paid in
settlement is proper and may order indemnity for the amount so paid in
settlement.
   C.   In any case where indemnification is required under the provisions of
subsections A or B of this section, the town treasurer shall pay, on behalf of
such town officer or official, any money judgment and shall perform the onerous
provisions of any court order which may be entered against him when such
judgment or order has become final and no longer appealable, or has not been
stayed pending appeal.
   D.   In any case where any town officer or official is or may be entitled to
be exonerated, indemnified and held harmless pursuant to the provisions of
subsection A of this section, the town shall protect and defend him or her from
and against any such civil litigation or criminal investigation or criminal
proceeding commenced against him or her, by engaging and compensating competent
legal counsel to conduct his or her defense, and by paying all court costs, and
any fees of opposing legal counsel, taxed or imposed by the court having
jurisdiction.
   E.   In any case where any town officer or official is or may be entitled to
be exonerated, indemnified and held harmless pursuant to the provisions of
subsection B of this section, the town shall pay the expenses, including
attorneys' fees and the cost of a bond or other security pending appeal,
incurred in defending the civil complaint filed in federal or state court
naming the town officer or official or the criminal investigation or criminal
proceeding of the town officer or official in advance of the final disposition
of such action, suit, investigation or proceeding upon receipt of an
undertaking by or on behalf of such town officer or official to repay such
amount if it is ultimately determined that he is not entitled to be indemnified
by the town as authorized in subsection B of this section.
 
Notes
1 **Amended by Ordinance 2010-10
Section 2-7-3 Insurance Coverage
The town shall at all times procure insurance policies providing the maximum
coverages and limits procurable at reasonable rates to protect its interests
and to indemnify and protect all town officials and any town officer entitled
to indemnification and protection pursuant to this article. Acceptance of
coverage and undertaking of protection by any such insurance carrier shall be
deemed to satisfy the requirements of this article on the part of the town.
However, in any case or instance where an insurance carrier does not in fact
accept coverage and defend any town officer or officials, or where the
insurance policy limits are insufficient to cover any judgment entered against
any town officer or officials, the town shall be bound by the provisions of
this article to protect and indemnify pursuant to the provisions of Section
2-7-2 .
Section 2-7-4 Notice of Claims 1
It shall be a precondition to the assertion of any claim for protection and
indemnity under this article that any town officer or officials, after having
been served with process commencing civil litigation against him or her or them
or after having notice of a criminal investigation or criminal proceeding
alleged to be covered under the provisions of subsections A or B of Section
2-7-2, shall promptly give notice thereof to the town clerk, who shall in turn
present such claim to the council, together with such town officer's or
officials' request for indemnity and protection hereunder, for a decision by
the council whether indemnification is required under Section
2-7-2. It shall further be a precondition to coverage hereunder that a town
officer or officials claiming the protection and benefits conferred by this
article shall at all times, and in every way, cooperate fully with legal
counsel appointed by the town to defend against any pending civil litigation or
criminal investigation or criminal proceeding under the provisions of
subsection D of Section
2-7-2. In all matters involving notice of a criminal investigation or criminal
proceeding alleged to be covered under the provisions of subsections A or B of
Section
2-7-2, the town officer or official in addition to giving notice thereof to the
town clerk shall promptly give notice thereof and consult with the town
attorney until such time as a decision is made by the council on whether to
grant the town officer or official's request for indemnification.
 
Notes
1 *Amended by Ordinance 2010-10
Section 2-7-5 Effective Date
This article shall be effective with regard to any and all claims and lawsuits
brought against town officials or any town officer arising out of any act or
omission by the town or any town officer since the date of the town's
incorporation on December 3, 1984.
CHAPTER 3 ADMINISTRATION
Article 3-1   OFFICERS IN GENERAL
   
3-1-1   Officers
   
3-1-2   Additional Officers
   
3-1-3   Bond
   
3-1-4   Vacancies; Holding More Than One Office
   
3-1-5   Additional Powers and Duties
Section 3-1-1 Officers  *
There are hereby created the offices of town administrator, town clerk, town
marshal, town engineer, town prosecutor, town attorney, town building official
and town judge all of who shall be appointed by the council and who shall
serve, with the exception of the judge, at the pleasure of the council. The
judge shall be appointed for a term of office as provided in Section
4-2-1. The positions of town prosecutor and town judge will be addressed in a
separate section of this town code.
 
Notes
* *Ordinance 2016-01
Section 3-1-2 Additional Officers
The council may appoint and remove from time to time such other officers as it
may deem necessary and that are not provided for in this code or state statute.
Section 3-1-3 Bond
The council shall require each officer of the town to give bond for the due
discharge of his duties in such sums and with such security as it may direct
and approve. The town shall pay the costs of such bond.
Section 3-1-4 Vacancies; Holding More Than One Office *
Any vacancy that shall occur in any town officer position shall be filled by
appointment by the council. A person may hold more than one office. At the
discretion of the council, the functions of a town officer may be validly
performed and discharged by a deputy or another town officer, or an otherwise
qualified individual not holding office but employed at the pleasure of the
council.
 
Notes
* *Ordinance 2016-01
Section 3-1-5 Additional Powers and Duties
In addition to any powers and duties prescribed in this code, each officer
shall have such further powers, perform such further duties and hold such other
office as may be provided by the council through ordinance, resolution or
order.
Article 3-2    OFFICERS
   
3-2-1   Town Administrator
   
3-2-2   Town Clerk
   
3-2-3   Town Marshal
   
3-2-4   Town Engineer
   
3-2-5   Town Attorney
   
3-2-6   Town Prosecutor
   
3-2-7   Town Building Official
Section 3-2-1   Town Administrator  *
The town administrator shall oversee the day-to-day conduct of town business in
accordance with the directions of the mayor and council.
   A.   Office.
      1.   The town administrator (hereinafter called "administrator") shall be
appointed by a majority of the council for an indefinite term. The
administrator shall be chosen on the basis of their operational and
administrative qualifications and their knowledge of accepted practice with
respect to the duties of this office. The administrator shall hold office at
the pleasure of the council.
      2.   The administrator shall function as the chief administrator and
manage the town's business. No town business shall be conducted without the
prior and continuing involvement of the administrator. The administrator shall
be responsible for the operation of all town functions in keeping with the best
practices within their respective functions.
      3.   The administrator shall provide a primary element of continuity to
any business being conducted by the town in addition to addressing the short-
term considerations inherent within each town officer's position; the
administrator shall also be responsible for safeguarding the long-term interest
of the town. The town administrator should have a familiarity with the Town of
Carefree zoning, planning, codes, ordinances, and history as well as experience
in town administration or management.
   B.   Absence. During a temporary absence or disability of the permanent
administrator the council may designate a qualified administrative officer to
perform the administrator's duties.
   C.   Removal. The administrator may be removed only by a majority vote of
the council at a regular council meeting. In such event, the administrator
shall have been furnished with a written notice stating the council's intention
to remove him, and the reasons therefore, at least 30 days in advance of the
regular council meeting at which a vote on the removal will take place. If the
removal becomes final, the town shall pay the administrator's salary according
to their employment contract with the town.
   D.   Resignation. The town administrator shall give such notice as set forth
in the employment contract prior to resigning the office of town administrator.
   E.   Compensation. The town administrator shall receive compensation in
accordance with the terms of their employment agreement.
   F.   Responsibilities. The administrator shall act in the capacity of the
chief administrative officer of the town government and shall be responsible to
the council for the proper handling and implementation of all affairs of the
town under the specific direction and control of the council. In addition to
the general powers as the chief administrative officer and not as a limitation
thereon, it shall be the administrator's responsibility and authority to:
      1.   Manage the administration and operation of the town staff:
         a.   The council, and individual council members, shall deal with the
town and the town staff and the administrative services they provide only
through the administrator, except for the purposes of inquiry.
         b.   Appoint and, when necessary, suspend or terminate all employees
of the town, except those officers appointed by the council.
         c.   Coordinate the administrative functions and operations of the
various departments, boards, divisions, and services of the town government
and, on its behalf, carry out policies, rules, regulations, ordinances, and
provisions of the town code relating to the administration of the affairs of
such departments, boards, divisions, or services.
         d.   Analyze the functions, duties, and activities of the various
departments, boards, and services of the town government and of all employees,
and recommend to the council any changes which, in the administrator's
judgment, would result in a more efficient or more effective town government.
      2.   Manage the administrative functions of the town:
         a.   Attend all meetings of the council, unless excused therefrom, and
report on any matter concerning activities, departments, and services under his
or her supervision about which, in his or her judgment, the council should be
informed; attend, or designate a representative to attend, all board and
commission meetings.
         b.   Prepare, or cause to be prepared, all required regulatory and
other filings or reports as required from a town government entity.
      3.   Manage the development and implementation of the annual town budget:
         a.   Prepare, or cause to be prepared, the annual operations budgets
estimates and submit them to council. Be responsible for the administration of
the operation budget after adoption.
         b.   Recommend to the council the purchase of machinery, equipment,
and supplies along with the means by which these items will be obtained.
         c.   Supervise the expenditures of all departments, divisions, or
services of the town government.
         d.   Monitor the implementation of the approved annual town budget to
maintain coordination with changes in anticipated tax receipts, cash flow and
income to the town.
      4.   Serve as the purchasing agent for the town:
         a.   All town expenditures of any kind or expenditure level shall
first involve and secure the concurrence of the administrator before being
committed.
         b.   Manage, supervise and control the expenditures for all goods and/
or services purchased by the town by all departments, divisions, or other
aspects of the town government.
         c.   Acquire and maintain inventory of the town's personal property
and recommend to the council the purchase of machinery, equipment, and supplies
along with the means by which these will be obtained.
         d.   Supervise the use, maintenance, upkeep and safe keeping of all
town physical assets.
         e.   Acquire and maintain inventory of the town's personal property.
      5.   Other responsibilities:
         a.   Work with the mayor and council in resolving town priorities.
         b.   Work with the mayor and council in evaluating alternatives under
consideration by the council.
         c.   Work with the mayor, council and others regarding supervising the
implementation of town projects.
         d.   Assist in the scheduling, managing and/or coordination all
activities (e.g., proprietary town events, fairs, festivals, performances,
etc.) in the town center and Carefree Desert Gardens.
         e.   Work with the town attorney on all matters requiring legal review
and action.
         f.   Ensure that all laws and ordinances of the town are enforced, and
recommend that the council adopt such measures or ordinances as may contribute
to the health, safety, or welfare of the community or improve administrative
services.
         g.   Investigate all complaints concerning the administration of the
government and any contract and/or service maintained by the town, and report
all findings to the council, and confirm that all franchises, permits, and
privileges granted by the town are faithfully observed.
         h.   Perform such other duties as may be required by the council not
inconsistent with the laws of the state or the provisions of the ordinances of
the town, and devote full time to the discharge of official duties.
 
Notes
* *Ordinance 2016-01
Section 3-2-2 Town Clerk
   A.   Records. The clerk shall keep a true and correct record of all business
transacted by the council and any other records that either pertain to the
business of the town or that the council directs.
   B.   Public Inspection of Records. The clerk shall keep convenient for
public inspection all public records and public documents under his control, as
provided by state statute.
   C.   Monthly Reports. The clerk shall prepare and collect from town officers
and employees such monthly reports prepared in such manner and to include such
information as may be directed by the council.
   D.   Minutes. The clerk shall prepare or cause to be prepared all minutes of
council proceedings and ensure their correctness and accuracy.
   E.   Ordinances, Resolutions, Budgets and Notices. The clerk shall process,
record, file, publish and, if required by state statute, post all ordinances,
resolutions, motions, budgets and notices that may be passed by the council.
   F.   Duties as Treasurer. The clerk shall hold the office of town treasurer
and receive and safely keep all monies that shall come to the town and pay out
the same when authorized by the council. He shall keep a separate record and
account of each different fund provided by the council, apportion the monies
received among the different funds as prescribed by the council, and keep a
complete set of books showing: every money transaction of the town, the state
of each fund, from what source the money in each fund was derived and for what
purpose expended, and he shall make monthly reports to the council of all
receipts and disbursements. At the end of the fiscal year he shall make a full
and detailed statement of the receipts and expenditures of the town during the
year, specifying the different sources of revenue and the amount received from
each, all appropriations made by the mayor and council, and the object for
which they were made, and the amount of money expended under each, the
evidences of indebtedness issued, and what portion remains thereof outstanding,
with the rate and amount of interest due thereon, and the amount of cash on
hand.
   G.   Budget. Cause to be prepared and submitted to him by each department,
board, division or service of the town government, itemized annual estimates of
expenditures required by them for capital outlay, salaries, wages and
miscellaneous operating costs, to tabulate the same into a preliminary
consolidated municipal budget and submit the same to the council annually on
the date specified by them, with his recommendations as to any increases,
decreases, cancellations, transfers or changes in any of the items included in
the preliminary budget.
   H.   Election Official. The clerk shall be the town election official and
perform those duties required by state statute.
   I.   Licenses. Except where such duty is cast upon some other officer by
this code, the clerk shall issue or cause to be issued all licenses that may be
prescribed by this code or state statute.
   J.   Administrative Duties. The clerk shall perform such administrative
responsibilities and duties as may be assigned to him by the council in
addition to those specified in this code.
Section 3-2-3 Town Marshal 1
The town administrator or designee shall serve as the town marshal and law
enforcement agent and shall provide enforcement of town ordinances. The town
administrator with the approval of the  town council shall have the authority
to enter into an intergovernmental agreement or contract for the provision of
law enforcement services. Enforcement will be effected by either issuance of
citations or summons and complaint to persons accused of violating town
ordinances.
 
Notes
1 *Amended by Ordinance 2010-07
Section 3-2-4 Town Engineer
The engineer shall have charge of the town streets and public works and shall
perform such duties as may be required of him by law and such other duties as
the council may deem necessary.
Section 3-2-5 Town Attorney
The town attorney shall act as the legal counselor and advisor of the council
and other town officials and, as such, shall give his opinion orally or in
writing when requested to do so. He shall draft such deeds, contracts,
conveyances, ordinances, resolutions and other legal instruments and shall
approve as to form all drafts of contracts and all official or other bonds, as
may be required by the council or any town official. He shall review all
ordinances and resolutions submitted to him for consideration and give to the
council his comments or advice regarding the form and substance thereof,
together with his reasons therefor, when so requested. He shall arrange for the
prosecution and defense of all suits, actions or causes where the town is a
party and shall report to the council on the condition of any suit or action to
which the town is a party, when required to do so.
Section 3-2-6 Town Prosecutor 1
The council may appoint a chief prosecutor and one or more associate
prosecutors to serve at the pleasure of the council, and the compensation of
each prosecutor shall be as determined by the council. The prosecutor's duties
will be to represent the state or the town in contested matters where the
defendant is represented by counsel or in cases where the prosecutor's
participation is requested by the council or one of the town officers, and to
assist the presiding judge and the court clerk in the proper functioning of the
town's municipal court, as requested bv the presiding magistrate judge with the
approval of council.
 
Notes
1 *Ordinance 2016-01
Section 3-2-7 Town Building Official
The town building official shall be charged with the general administration and
enforcement of the town's building codes referenced in Chapter 10 hereof and
for all plan review, issuance of all permits, the conduct of inspections and
granting of all approvals required thereby.
CHAPTER 4 MUNICIPAL COURT *
 
Notes
* *Ordinances 85-14, 85-15, 85-21, 94-09, 95-08, 96-15, 97-10, 98-01, 98-05,
  99-09, 01-01, 2016-01
Article 4-1   MUNICIPAL COURT ESTABLISHED; JURISDICTION
There is hereby established in the town a municipal court which shall have
jurisdiction of all cases arising under town ordinance and violations of this
code, and jurisdiction concurrently with justices of the peace of precincts in
which the town is located of violation of laws of the state committed within
the limits of the town to the extent provided by state statute.
Article 4-2   OFFICERS, POWERS AND DUTIES  **
   
4-2-1   Presiding Judge
   
4-2-2   Associate Judges
   
4-2-3   Filling of Vacancies
   
4-2-4   Powers and Duties of Town Judge
   
4-2-5   Relationship of Municipal Court with Appointed and Funding Authority
   
4-2-6   Court Revenue
   
4-2-7   Temporary Judge
 
Notes
** **Ordinance 2016-01
Section 4-2-1 Presiding Judge
The Presiding Judge of the municipal court shall be appointed by the council.
The length of the term of office for the presiding judge shall be a minimum of
two years as determined by the council. The presiding judge shall control the
calendar, supervise the activities of the court clerk and make all sitting
assignments for judges. The presiding judge shall serve for such salary or
other compensation as the council may determine at the time of his or her
appointment.
Section 4-2-2 Associate Judges
The office of associate judges is hereby created. The associate judges shall be
appointed by the council for terms of a minimum of two years from the date of
their respective appointments and serve at the will of the council. During such
terms of office, the associate judges shall serve for such salary or other
compensation as the council may determine.
Section 4-2-3 Filling of Vacancies
In the event of the death, resignation, suspension, or removal of a judge, such
vacancy may be filled for the unexpired term of office by the town council. The
council may suspend or remove a judge:
   A.   For any reason authorized by law;
   B.   Whenever a judge is unable to perform the duties of the office as
determined by the council; or
   C.   For failure to meet the minimum qualifications of the position.
Section 4-2-4 Powers and Duties of Town Judge
The powers and duties of the town municipal court shall include:
   A.   The powers and duties set forth and conferred upon it under the
provisions of the state constitution and statutes, this code and all ordinances
and resolutions of the town.
   B.   The keeping of a docket in which shall be entered each action and the
proceedings of the court therein.
   C.   The responsibility for setting and receiving all bonds and bails and
receiving all fines, penalties, fees, forfeitures and other monies as provided
by law.
   D.   Payment of all fees, fines, penalties, forfeitures and other monies
collected by the court to the treasurer and payment of all surcharges levied
thereon by the state to the state treasurer, as required by law.
   E.   Issuance of execution against the property of any defendant failing to
pay any fine imposed for violation of this code or of a town ordinance. Such
execution shall be in favor of the town and shall be issued and enforced like
executions in civil actions.
   F.   The hearing and determination of any civil action brought by the town
to recover a penalty or forfeiture provided for the violation of any town
ordinance or this code. Such action shall be brought and conducted like civil
actions in justice of the peace courts.
   G.   Submitting a monthly report to the council summarizing court activities
for that month, as well as a monthly statistical report to the administrative
director of the courts, as required by supreme court order.
   H.   Preparation of the schedules of traffic violations not involving the
death of a person, and civil traffic violations, listing specific bail or
deposit payable for each such traffic or civil traffic violation.
   I.   Serve as a juvenile hearing officer.
Section 4-2-5 Relationship of Municipal Court with Appointed and Funding
Authority
Because of the relationship between the town and the municipal court, town
judges must exercise care to ensure that the adjudication process remains free
from the influence of any person or institution having responsibility for
judicial appointments or funding. While any judge may listen to the counsel of
others, decisions regarding the resolution of a particular case must be made by
the judge in the exercise of a free and unfettered judgment. Decisions
regarding the overall function of the court are the sole responsibility of the
presiding judge. The authority of the presiding judge for making decisions
regarding the overall function of the court applies to decisions concerning
handling of court mail and records, hiring, supervision, discipline and
dismissal of court personnel. Decisions regarding hiring, supervision and
dismissal of court personnel must be consistent with municipal Employee
Management Guidelines. Personnel rules adopted by the town for employment,
grievance procedures, termination, sick leave, overtime, vacation time and
other items are applicable to employees of the town municipal court. In
employing additional personnel, town personnel guidelines shall be followed.
The presiding judge shall have exclusive supervisory authority over all court
personnel. However, non-judicial functions, such as custodial and maintenance
services assigned to the town municipal court may be performed by employees or
contractors working under the supervision and authority designated by the town
council.
Section 4-2-6 Court Revenue
It is the responsibility of the presiding judge to ensure that he does not
allow anyone to control or influence the discretionary amount of any fine,
penalty or sanction imposed. Under the direction of the presiding judge, the
court shall collect all fines, sanctions, restitution and bond payments imposed
by the court. Because all monies coming into the possessions of the town
municipal court are public monies, these funds shall be handled and accounted
for in accordance with state law and procedures adopted by the town council.
Section 4-2-7 Temporary Judge
Notwithstanding anything contrary in this chapter, the presiding judge of the
municipal court may appoint judges to serve on a temporary or "pro tempore"
basis. Such judges shall be compensated on a contractual or hourly basis, shall
not be eligible for any benefits as full-time employees and shall be appointed
for a term as set forth by the presiding judge of the municipal court. Part-
time and temporary magistrates pro tempore shall serve for such salary or other
compensation as the council may determine.
Article 4-3   PROCEEDINGS OF COURT
   
4-3-1   Proceedings
   
4-3-2   Admission to Bail
   
4-3-3   Jury Trials
Section 4-3-1   Proceedings *
   A.   The proceedings of the town municipal court shall be conducted in
accordance with the state constitution, the applicable state statutes and rules
of the state supreme court pertaining to justice of the peace or town courts.
The proceedings shall also be conducted in accordance with the rules of
procedure in civil traffic cases and the rules of criminal procedure including
the provisions thereof regarding bail, issuance of subpoenas, summons and
warrants, and punishment for disobedience thereof, so far as applicable and
when not otherwise prescribed.
   B.   Town municipal court proceedings for criminal violations of town
ordinances shall be commenced by complaint under oath and in the name of the
state setting forth the offense charged, with such particulars of time, place,
person and property as to enable the defendant to understand distinctly the
character of the offense complained of and to answer the complaint.
   C.   If the judge is satisfied that there exists probable cause to believe
that the offense complained of has been committed by the person charged, he
shall issue a summons or a warrant of arrest. Before issuing a summons or
warrant of arrest on a complaint, the judge may subpoena and examine witnesses
as to the truth of the complaint.
   D.   Proceedings to enforce and collect sanctions for civil offenses or to
obtain any other remedy allowed by the town code shall be initiated and
prosecuted in accordance with the provisions of Article 1-9 or Section 6-3-3 or
as otherwise herein provided.
 
Notes
* *Ordinance 2016-01
Section 4-3-2 Admission to Bail
Defendants, after arrest and before conviction, shall be admitted to bail, if
bailable; and the rules of criminal procedure shall govern the release of all
defendants, wherever applicable.
Section 4-3-3 Jury Trials 1
   A.   The right of trial by jury shall be granted in all cases of such a
nature as are triable by a jury under the constitution and laws of the state,
but not for violation of ordinances of such a nature as by common law were not
triable by a jury.
   B.   Each juror for every day's attendance in the town magistrate's court
shall be paid a sum fixed by council.
   C.   Juries in the town municipal court shall be formed and summoned in the
same manner as is provided under Arizona law for juries in courts of record, as
authorized by A.R.S. Section 22- 426(A).
 
Notes
1 *Ordinance 2016-01
Article 4-4   PUBLIC DEFENDER *
The public defender shall be appointed by the presiding judge and be
compensated as determined by the judge. The defendant shall reimburse the cost
of the public defender unless there is a finding of indigence by the court.
 
Notes
* *Ordinance 2016-01
Article 4-5   COURT EMPLOYEES *
   
4-5-1   Appointment and Compensation
   
4-5-2   Duties of Court Administrator
   
4-5-3   Duties of Deputy Court Clerk
 
Notes
* *Ordinance 2016-01
Section 4-5-1 Appointment and Compensation
The municipal court shall have a court administrator appointed by the presiding
judge. The court administrator shall be an employee of the town and shall serve
at the pleasure of the presiding judge. Compensation of the court administrator
shall be established by the town council.
Section 4-5-2 Duties of Court Administrator
The duties of the court administrator are the following, subject to the overall
supervision of the presiding judge with regard to their performance:
   A.   Accept and file all summons, complaints, pleadings, motions, records,
judgments and other documents presented to, or issued by, the court in the
exercise of its jurisdiction.
   B.   Prepare and maintain the court's dockets, calendar and other records of
its proceedings.
   C.   Issue any court process.
   D.   Receive and collect all funds in payment of fines, bail and costs, and
to deposit, disburse and account for the same as required by state statute or
court rules.
   E.   Prepare all statistical and other reports required to be maintained or
filed by the court.
   F.   Perform such other services as may be directed by the judge in the
exercise of the court's jurisdiction.
   G.   Furnish all administrative services required in the exercise of the
jurisdiction of the court.
Section 4-5-3 Duties of Deputy Court Clerk
The presiding judge may appoint one or more deputy court clerks, who, subject
to the supervision of the presiding judge and court administrator, will assist
in the duties of the court administrator.
Article 4-6   JAIL SERVICES RECOVERY FEE *
   
4-6-1   Payment of Costs of Confinement
   
4-6-2   Collection of Fee
   
4-6-3   Consequences of Nonpayment of Fee
 
Notes
* *Ordinance 91-06 and 2016-01.
Section 4-6-1   Payment of Costs of Confinement  **
Any person who is convicted of a misdemeanor offense within the corporate
limits of the town and who is sentenced to a term of incarceration in the
Maricopa County Jail or other facility may be required by the Carefree
Municipal Court to reimburse the town for the incarceration costs pursuant to
state law.
 
Notes
** **Amended by Ordinance 2007-07 and 2016-01.
Section 4-6-2 Collection of Fee
The town attorney is authorized to institute any appropriate civil suit in a
court of competent jurisdiction for recovery of the fee referred to
hereinabove.
Section 4-6-3 Consequences of Nonpayment of Fee
The provisions of A.R.S. § 13-810 governing nonpayment of fines or restitution
apply to nonpayment of jail services recovery fees.
Article 4-7   COURT ENHANCEMENT FUND  ***
   
4-7-1   Court Enhancement Fund ****
   
4-7-2   Collection of Fees and Costs
 
Notes
***  ***Amended by Ordinance 00-06
**** ****Amended by Ordinances 02-12, 03-05, 2010-03, 2013-08 and 2016-01
Section 4-7-1 Court Enhancement Fund
   A.   There is hereby created a court enhancement fund, which shall be used
exclusively to enhance the technological, operational, and security
capabilities of the municipal court.
   B.   The court enhancement fund shall be funded by:
      1.   An enhancement fee in the amount of twenty-five dollars ($25.00)
which excludes applicable state and/or county surcharges, shall be charged by
the municipal court to each person against whom a fine, penalty, and forfeiture
is imposed by court order and shall be in addition to fees assessable by
statute.
      2.   A civil traffic default judgment fee in the amount of twenty-five
($25.00) dollars, which shall be charged by the municipal court to each person
(in addition to any civil sanction imposed) for which a default judgment is
entered for failure to appear on a civil traffic violation case, unless such
default judgement is set aside pursuant to Rule 28 of Arizona Rules of Court
Procedure in Civil Traffic Cases. The municipal judge may waive all or any part
of the fee if the payment of the fee would cause undue hardship to the
defendant.
      3.   A suspension fee in the amount of twenty-five ($25.00) dollars,
which shall be charged by the municipal court to each person (in addition to
any civil sanction and default judgement fees imposed) for which an MVD
eligible suspension is entered for failure to appear or failure to pay on a
civil traffic violation case.
      4.   An administrative fee not to exceed two hundred ($200) dollars for
the issuance of a warrant due to the failure of a defendant to appear or to pay
any fine, fee, or restitution imposed by the court or the failure of a
defendant to comply with any other sanction or any other order regarding
probation, counseling, or diversion programs.
      5.   An administrative fee not to exceed one hundred ($100) dollars to
any defendant who is permitted and elects to participate in any counseling or
diversionary programs as an alternative to a judicial resolution of any charge
against the defendant.
   C.   The court enhancement fund shall be established as a designated fund
account of the town. The municipal court shall collect the “court enhancement
fee”, “default judgment fee”, “suspension fee”, and “warrant fee” and deposit
them in the court enhancement fund account. The monies in the fund shall be
invested in the same manner as other town funds. Interest earned on fund monies
shall be deposited in the fund.
Section 4-7-2 Collection of Fees and Costs
Any fee or cost assessed pursuant to the procedures specified in this article
may be collected as any other court ordered fine, penalty and forfeiture.
Article 4-8   PRIVATE COLLECTION AGENCY TRANSACTION FEES (COSTS)  *
   A.   A defendant who defaults in his or her obligation for the payment of
monies owed or due to the municipal court, including but not limited to
restitution, fines, sanctions, surcharges, assessments, penalties, bonds, costs
and/or fees, is liable for any and all fees and charges assessed by a private
collection agency that is licensed pursuant to Title 32, Chapter 9, Article 2,
Arizona Revised Statutes, and that is engaged by the magistrate court to
collect and enforce such payment. The collection fees and charges assessed by
the private collection agency shall be added to the sum due from and chargeable
against the defendant.
   B.   A defendant who defaults in his or her obligation for the payment of
monies owed or due to the municipal court, including but not limited to
restitution, fines, sanctions, surcharges, assessments, penalties, bonds, costs
and/or fees, is liable for any and all fees and charges assessed by a duly
licensed attorney, and who is engaged by the municipal court to collect and
enforce such payment. The private collection agency fees and charges assessed
by the attorney shall be added to the sum due from and chargeable against the
defendant.
 
Notes
* *Added by Ordinance 99-06, amended by Ordinance 2016-01
CHAPTER 5 HEALTH AND SAFETY
Article 5-1   ANIMAL RULES AND REGULATIONS *
   
5-1-1   Definitions
   
5-1-2   Dangerous Animals
   
5-1-3   Dogs Not Permitted at Large
   
5-1-4   Noises and Sanitary Requirements
   
5-1-5   Strays
   
5-1-6   Housing
   
5-1-7   Swine
   
5-1-8   Violations and Penalties
 
Notes
* *Amended by Ordinance 01-01
Section 5-1-1 Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
   A.   "Animal" means any animal of a species that is susceptible to rabies,
except man.
   B.   "At large" means on or off the premises of the owner and not under the
physical control of the owner or other person acting for the owner. A dog shall
not be deemed at large for the purposes of this Section if it is restrained by
a leash, chain, rope or cord not to exceed six feet in length and of sufficient
strength to control the action of the dog, or if the dog is in a suitable
enclosure that actually confines the dog.
   C.   "County pound" means any establishment authorized by the Maricopa
County Board of Supervisors for the confinement, maintenance, safekeeping and
control of dogs and other animals that come into the custody of the enforcement
agent.
   D.   "Dog" means a member of the canis familiaris family.
   E.   "Enforcement agent" means the town marshal or designee who is
responsible for the enforcement of this article and the regulations promulgated
thereunder, or any officer of the Maricopa County Animal Control services.
   F.   "Impound" means the act of taking or receiving into custody by the
enforcement agent any dog or other animal for the purpose of confinement in a
county pound in accordance with the provisions of this article.
   G.   "Livestock" means any horses, mules, cattle, burrow, goats, sheep,
swine or poultry.
   H.   "Owner" means any person keeping an animal other than livestock for
more than five consecutive days.
   I.   "Rabies quarantine area" means any area in which a state of emergency
has been declared to exist due to the occurrence of rabies in animals in or
adjacent to this area.
   J.   "Vicious animal" means any animal of the order carnivora that has a
propensity to attack, to cause injury to or to otherwise endanger the safety of
human beings without provocation or that has been so declared after a hearing
before a justice of the peace or a city or town magistrate.
Section 5-1-2 Dangerous Animals
No person shall keep or harbor any dangerous or vicious animal of any kind
within the town, and such animals shall be immediately impounded by the town
enforcement agent. Exhibitions or parades of animals which are ferae naturae
may be conducted only upon securing a permit from the town.
Section 5-1-3 Dogs Not Permitted at Large
   A.   No person shall allow or cause a dog to be at large within the town
boundaries. Each dog shall be confined within an enclosure on the owner's
property, or secured so that a dog is confined entirely to the owner's
property, or on a leash not to exceed six feet in length and directly under the
owner's physical control when not on the owner's property.
   B.   No person shall allow or cause a vicious dog, or a dog in a rabies
quarantine area to be at large.
   C.   Any dog at large may be apprehended and impounded by the enforcement
agent.
      1.   Said agent shall have the right to enter upon private property when
it is necessary to do so in order to apprehend any dog that is at large. Such
entrance upon private property shall be in reasonable pursuit of such dog and
shall not include entry into a domicile or enclosure which confines the dog
unless it be at the invitation of a person residing thereon.
      2.   In the judgment of the enforcement agent, if any dog at large or
other animal that is dangerous or fierce and a threat to human safety cannot be
safely impounded, it may be slain.
   D.   The enforcement agent may issue a citation to the dog owner, person
acting for the dog owner, custodian, or other person whom said agent may
reasonably believe permitted, allowed or caused a dog to be at large.
   E.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, any dog owner,
person acting for the dog owner, custodian, or other person who permits, allows
or causes a dog to be at large in violation of:
      1.   Subsection A of this Section is responsible for a civil violation,
punishable by a civil sanction not to exceed three hundred dollars.
      2.   Subsection B of this Section is guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable
by a fine of not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars, by imprisonment
for a period not to exceed six months, by a term of probation not to exceed
three years, or by any combination of such fine, imprisonment and probation.
Section 5-1-4 Noises and Sanitary Requirements 1
   A.   It is unlawful to harbor or keep any animal or fowl which by frequent
or habitual howling, yelping, barking, crowing or the making of other noises
disturbs the peace of a neighborhood or any two or more persons not residing in
the same household, one of which may be an animal control officer or other law
enforcement officer.
   B.   Any person owning, possessing, harboring or having the care, charge,
control or custody of any dog shall immediately remove and thereafter dispose
of any fecal matter deposited by the dog on public or private property located
within the area bounded by the Town limits of the Town of Carefree, Arizona,
unless the property owner has given prior approval to use the property for this
purpose. The dog fecal matter shall be immediately placed in a closed or sealed
container and thereafter disposed of by depositing said matter in a trash
receptacle, sanitary disposal unit or other closed or sealed container. This
section shall not apply to handicapped persons accompanied by a dog used for
their assistance.
 
Notes
1 *Ordinance 92-04 and 01-01 and 02-08
Section 5-1-5 Strays
Any person who keeps or causes to be kept any horses, mules, cattle, burrow,
goats, sheep, or other livestock or poultry shall keep such livestock or
poultry in a pen or similar enclosure to prevent their roaming at large within
the corporate limits of the town. Any such livestock or poultry running at
large may be impounded.
Section 5-1-6 Housing
No person shall cause or allow any stable or place where any animal is or may
be kept to become a threat to the health or safety of any person.
Section 5-1-7 Swine
No person shall keep any live swine or pigs in the town.
Section 5-1-8 Violations and Penalties *
Except where otherwise provided, any person who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects or refuses to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of, any of
the provisions of this article shall upon admission or judicial determination
thereof be responsible for a civil offense and shall be subject to imposition
of a civil sanction of up to seven hundred fifty dollars.
 
Notes
* *Ordinances 89-26 and 01-01 in part
Article 5-2   PUBLIC AND SEMI-PUBLIC POOLS CODE **
   
5-2-1   Definitions
   
5-2-2   Persons Prohibited from Using
   
5-2-3   Commission of Acts Prejudicial to Life and Health of Others
   
5-2-4   Glass Containers
   
5-2-5   Pets and Animals
   
5-2-6   Violations and Penalties
 
Notes
** **Ordinances 86-03, 89-26 in part
Section 5-2-1 Definitions
In this article unless the context otherwise requires:
   A.   "Public pool" means a swimming pool, admission to which may be gained
by the general public with or without payment of a fee.
   B.   "Semi-public pool" means a swimming pool on the premises of, or part
of, but not limited to, a hotel, motel, trailer court, apartment house, country
club, camp, health club, condominium, home owners association or similar
establishment, where the primary business of the establishment is not the
operation of swimming facilities and where the admission to the use of the pool
is included in the fee or consideration paid or given for the primary use of
the premises.
Section 5-2-2 Persons Prohibited from Using
No person with sore or inflamed eyes, colds, nasal or ear discharges, boils or
other acute or obvious skin or body infections, or cuts shall enter any public
or semi-public pool within the town.
Section 5-2-3 Commission of Acts Prejudicial to Life and Health of Others
No person in the use of a public or semi-public pool shall commit or permit
anyone else to commit any act such as running, jumping or throwing objects
which are prejudicial to the life or health of any other person using the pool.
Section 5-2-4 Glass Containers
No person shall bring into any public pool or semi-public area any glass or
other breakable articles such as, but not limited to, bottles, glasses or other
glass containers.
Section 5-2-5 Pets and Animals
No person shall bring or permit any pet or animal to enter or remain within any
public or semi-public pool area.
Section 5-2-6 Violations and Penalties
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with,
or who resists the enforcement of, any of the provisions of this article shall
upon admission or judicial determination thereof be responsible for a civil
offense and shall be subject to imposition of a civil sanction of up to seven
hundred fifty dollars.
Article 5-3   PRIVATE POOLS BARRIER CODE *
   
5-3-1   Definition
   
5-3-2   Pool Enclosures
   
5-3-3   Barrier Details
   
5-3-4   Violations and Penalties
 
Notes
* *Ordinances 91-04 and 01-01
Section 5-3-1 Definition
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires: "swimming pool" means a
contained body of water, that contains water eighteen inches or more in depth
at any point and that is wider than eight feet at any point and is intended,
designed, or suitable for swimming.
Section 5-3-2 Pool Enclosures
   A.   Every swimming pool shall be protected by an enclosure surrounding the
pool area, as provided in this article.
   B.   It is the responsibility of the property owner and any other person in
responsible charge of a swimming pool to ensure that the required swimming pool
enclosure including all gates, doors, locks, latches and other portions of the
barrier are maintained safe and in good working order at all times. No person
shall alter or remove any portion of a swimming pool enclosure except to
repair, reconstruct or replace the enclosure in compliance with the provisions
of this article.
   C.   The requirements of this article apply to all new swimming pools
installed on or after June 6, 1991, and to all additions, alterations, repairs
or replacements made to existing swimming pool enclosures.
Section 5-3-3 Barrier Details
Every swimming pool required to be enclosed by this article, whether below
ground or above ground, shall meet the following requirements:
   A.   Be entirely enclosed by a masonry wall or ornamental iron fence or
combination thereof not less than sixty inches in height above finished grade
as measured on the exterior side of the wall or fence.
   B.   Have no openings in the wall or fence through which a spherical object
four inches in diameter can pass. The horizontal components of any wall or
fence shall be spaced not less than forty-five inches apart measured vertically
or shall be placed on the poolside of a wall or fence which shall not have any
opening greater than one and three quarter inches measured horizontally.
   C.   No wire mesh or chain link fences shall be permitted.
   D.   Gates for the enclosure shall:
      1.   Be self-enclosing and self-latching with the latch located at least
fifty-four inches above the underlying ground or on the poolside of the gate
with a release mechanism at least five inches below the top of the gate.
      2.   Have no opening greater than one-half inch within twenty-four inches
of the release mechanism or be secured by a padlock or similar device which
requires a key, electric opener or integral combination which can have the
latch at any height.
      3.   Open outward from the pool.
   E.   The wall or fence shall not contain openings, hand holds or foot holds
accessible from the exterior side of the enclosure that can be used to climb
the wall or fence.
Section 5-3-4 Violations and Penalties *
Any person who admits or is convicted of violating any provision of this
article shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor and shall be punished by a
fine not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars, by imprisonment for a
period not to exceed six months in jail, by a term of probation not to exceed
three years, or by any combination of such fine, imprisonment or probation.
Each day the violation continues shall be a separate offense punishable as
described herein.
 
Notes
* *Ordinance 01-01 in part; amended by Ordinance 2022-01
Article 5-4   REGULATING THE ACTIVITIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THOSE PERSONS
WHO PURCHASE, RENT, OR USE
ALARM SYSTEM DEVICES OR SERVICES *
   
5-4-1   Definitions
   
5-4-2   Alarm User Responsibilities
   
5-4-3   Regulations
   
5-4-4   Penalty
   
5-4-5   Penalty Assessment Appeal
   
5-4-6   Grace Period
   
5-4-7   Exemptions
   
5-4-8   Liability of the Town
 
Notes
* *Ordinance 2014-01
Section 5-4-1 Definitions
The following words and phrases, whenever used in this article, shall be
construed as defined in this section:
   A.   "Act of nature" means an unusual, extraordinary, sudden and unexpected
manifestation of the forces of nature, the effects of which cannot be prevented
by reasonable human care, skill or foresight.
   B.   "Alarm system" means any mechanical or electrical device which is used
for the detection of smoke, fire or unauthorized entry into a building or other
facility or for alerting others to the occurrence of fire or a medical
emergency or the commission of an unlawful act within a building or other
facility and which is designed to emit an outside audible alarm or transmit a
signal or message when actuated. "Alarm systems" include direct dial telephone
devices, audible alarms and proprietor alarms.
   C.   "Alarm user" means any person who purchases, leases, contracts for,
otherwise obtains or uses an alarm system.
   D.   "Burglar alarm system" means an alarm system signaling an entry or
attempted entry to the area protected by a system.
   E.   "Common cause" means a technical difficulty or malfunction which causes
an alarm system to generate a series of false alarms.
   F.   " False alarm" means any activation of an alarm not caused by or as a
result of a criminal act, fire, unauthorized entry or act of nature except for
activation when the fire or sheriff's departments have been given advance
notice of such testing or activation caused by the fire or sheriff's
departments.
   G.   "Fire alarm system" means an alarm system designed to detect, and cause
to be reported to the fire department or emergency communications center, a
fire alarm condition. "Fire alarm system" does not include single station
detectors or outside audible alarm-sounding devices not connected to a central
monitoring station.
   H.   "Panic alarm" means any device or system designed to be victim
activated to alert others of the existence of an emergency.
   I.   "Robbery alarm system" means an alarm system signaling a robbery or
holdup or attempted robbery wherein a personal confrontation is occurring. Such
a system may include the use of a panic button activation device.
Section 5-4-2 Alarm User Responsibilities
   A.   The user of any alarm system, whether at a business or residence, shall
be responsible for instructing all persons who are authorized to place the
device or system into operation in the appropriate method of operation,
advising them of the provisions of this article; and emphasizing the importance
of avoiding false alarms. The operator shall maintain the alarm equipment in
proper working order at all times so as to minimize the occurrence of false
alarms.
   B.   The alarm system operation instructions shall be maintained on the
premises.
   C.   The user shall post or provide to persons authorized to place the alarm
system or device, into operation the phone numbers for:
      1.   Town sheriff's department and fire department.
      2.   The alarm business twenty-four hour service number.
   D.   The user shall inactivate or cause to be inactivated the alarm system
within fifteen minutes of notification of its activation.
Section 5-4-3 Regulations
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally activate any
burglar, robbery, fire or panic alarm; except to warn of a fire, criminal act
or unauthorized entry in or into an alarm protected premises. This subsection
shall not apply to the testing of an alarm system when the fire or sheriff's
departments have been given advance notice of such testing.
   B.   No person shall install, use, or cause to be used, any telephone device
or telephone attachment that automatically selects or dials the Emergency 911
telephone number, or any Town of Carefree telephone number and then reproduces
any pre-recorded message or signal.
Section 5-4-4 Penalty
   A.   When an alarm system generates two false alarms within a calendar year,
the code enforcement officer shall send a warning notice to the alarm user that
two subsequent false alarms within said period will subject the notified party
to the sanctions as provided herein.
   B.   Any alarm system which has four or more false alarms within a calendar
year shall be subject to penalty assessments as hereinafter provided:
      1.   If the code enforcement officer records four false alarms within a
calendar year for any alarm system, the code enforcement officer or a designee
shall notify the alarm user by certified mail of such fact. The code
enforcement officer or a designee shall direct that the alarm user within ten
days of receipt of the notice of excessive false alarms, to pay a penalty
assessment to the town in the sum of one hundred ($100) dollars. The alarm user
shall be required to pay a penalty assessment of two hundred fifty ($250)
dollars for each subsequent false alarm within the same calendar year.
      2.   In the event the assessment is not tendered within ten days of
receipt of notice, the unpaid balance will be subject to a charge of one and
one half percent (1.5%) interest per month, in addition to the assessment.
   C.   A report from the fire or sheriff's departments documenting a response
to an alarm which revealed no evidence of a fire, criminal act or unlawful
entry shall constitute prima facie evidence of a false alarm.
   D.   Evidence that a false alarm was caused by an act of nature, common
cause or action of the telephone company may be presented as a defense to the
counting of such an alarm as a false alarm.
Section 5-4-5 Penalty Assessment Appeal
   A.   Any party, aggrieved by the decision resulting in a penalty assessment,
may request a hearing on the penalty assessment by filing a written request for
a hearing within ten days of receipt of such penalty. The request shall be
filed, in writing, with the town code enforcement officer or designee.
   B.   The request for hearing shall include a statement of the reason or
reasons that the alarm user believes justify reduction or waiver of the penalty
assessment. The alarm user shall describe, if applicable, what actions have
been taken to discover and eliminate such alarm activation in the future.
   C.   In the event that the town code enforcement officer or designee finds
that grounds exist justifying relief from the penalty assessment, the alarm
user shall not be responsible for payment.
Section 5-4-6 Grace Period
   A.   Newly installed and reinstalled alarm systems shall not be subject to
the provision of this article relating to counting and assessment of false
alarms for a period of thirty days from the date the alarm system becomes
operational if the alarm owner notifies the code enforcement officer in writing
within ten days of the completion of the installation or reinstallation. The
written notice shall specify the date the system was installed or reinstalled,
and, if reinstalled, the notice shall also describe the nature and extent of
the reinstallation.
   B.   Alarm installation companies shall provide written notice to owner of
the requirement to give the town written notice of installation and
reinstallation.
Section 5-4-7 Exemptions.
The provisions of this article shall not be applicable to audible alarms
affixed to automobiles and audible fire or burglar alarms which are not
connected to a central monitoring station.
Section 5-4-8 Liability of the Town
The Town of Carefree shall not be liable for any failure or neglect of an
appropriate or timely response by any fire, sheriff or emergency personnel or
their assigns.
Article 5-5   GARBAGE COLLECTION
   
5-5-1   Garbage Collection
Section 5-5-1 Garbage Collection
   A.   The purpose of this section is to ensure the protection of public
health by preventing or controlling the breeding of flies and other vectors in
solid waste collection containers.
   B.   Garbage haulers shall do the following:
      1.   Provide reliable service.
      2.   Provide fly tight containers that are in good condition.
      3.   Completely empty the containers on each visit to the residence and
immediately clean up any refuse spilled during the collection process. If any
fly larvae are found in the container, the container must be immediately
removed and replaced by the hauler.
   C.   Residents shall do the following:
      1.   Keep their garbage containers reasonably clean and free from fly
larvae, other vectors and intense odors.
      2.   Bag and tie all garbage, including grass, to prevent fly breeding
and control offensive odors. (Brush trimmings do not have to be bagged.)
      3.   Place the container at a convenient location for collection not more
than twelve (12) hours prior to the scheduled refuse collection. The containers
shall be returned to the storage area within twelve (12) hours after
collection.
Article 5-6   ILLICIT DISCHARGE AND CONNECTION  *
   
5-6-1   Garbage Collection
   
5-6-2   Definitions
   
5-6-3   Applicability
   
5-6-4   Responsibility for Administration
   
5-6-5   Severability
   
5-6-6   Discharge Prohibitions
   
5-6-7   Watercourse Protection
   
5-6-8   Industrial or Construction Activity Discharges
   
5-6-9   Compliance Monitoring
   
5-6-10   Requirement to Prevent, Control and Reduce Storm Water Pollutants by
the Use of Best Management Practices
   
5-6-11   Notification of Spills
   
5-6-12   Violations, Enforcement and Penalties
   
5-6-13   Appeal of Notice of Violation
   
5-6-14   Enforcement Measures After Appeal
   
5-6-15   Cost of Abatement of the Violation
   
5-6-16   Violations Deemed a Public Nuisance
   
5-6-17   Remedies Not Exclusive
 
Notes
* *Ordinance 2018-02
Section 5-6-1 Purpose and Intent
The purpose of this article is to provide for the health, safety, and general
welfare of the citizens of Carefree through the regulation of non-storm water
discharges to the storm drainage system to the maximum extent practicable as
required bv federal and state law. This article establishes methods for
controlling the introduction of pollutants into the municipal separate storm
sewer system (MS4) in order to comply with requirements of the National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit process. The objectives
of this article are:
   A.   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the MS4 by illicit storm
water discharges by any user.
   B.   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the MS4.
   C.   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection, surveillance,
monitoring, and enforcement procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this
article.
Section 5-6-2 Definitions
For the purposes of this article, the following shall mean:
   A.   "ADEO" means Arizona Department of Environmental Quality.
   B.    "Authorized Enforcement Agency" means employees or designees of the
town.
   C.    "Best Management Practices (BMPs)" means schedules of activities,
prohibitions of practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution
prevention and educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other
management practices to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly
or indirectly to storm water, receiving waters, or storm water conveyance
systems. BMPs also include treatment practices, operating procedures, and
practices to control site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal,
or drainage from raw materials storage.
   D.   "Clean Water Act" means the federal Water Pollution Control Act (33
U.S.C. § 1 et seq.) and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   E.    "Construction activity" means activities subject to NPDES construction
permits. These include construction projects resulting in land disturbance of
one acre or more. Such activities include but are not limited to clearing and
grubbing, grading, excavating and demolition.
   F.   "Facility" or "activity" means any NPDES point source or any other
facility or activity including land or appurtenances thereto) that is subject
to regulation under the NPDES program.
   G.   "Hazardous material" means any material, including any substance, waste
or combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration. or
physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly
contribute to a substantial present or potential hazard to human health safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored transported,
disposed of or otherwise managed.
   H.   "Illegal discharge" means any direct or indirect non-storm water
discharge to the storm drain system except as exempted in Section
5-6-8.
   I.   "Illicit connection" is defined as either of the following:
      1.   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface that
allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system including but not
limited to any conveyances that allow any non-storm water discharge including
sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain system and
any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and sinks,
regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously allowed,
permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement agency; or
      2.   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial
land use to the storm system that has not been documented in plans, maps, or
equivalent records and approved bv an authorized agency.
   J.   "Industrial activity" means activities subject to NPDES industrial
storm water permits as defined in 40 CFR, Section 122.26(b)(14).
   K.   "Municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) means the system of
conveyances (including sidewalks, roads with drainage systems, municipal
streets, catch basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, man-made channels, or storm
drains) owned and operated by the Town of Carefree and designed or used for
collection or conveying storm water, and that is not used for collection or
conveying sewage.
   L.   "National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Storm Water
Discharge Permit" means a permit issued by EPA, through the Arizona Department
of Environmental Quality, that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters
of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual, group,
or general area-wide basis.
   M.   "Non-storm water discharge" means any discharge to the storm drain
system that is not composed entirety of storm water.
   N.    "Person" means any individual, association, organization, partnership,
firm, corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the
owner or as the owner's agent.
   O.   "Pollutant" means anything which cause or contributes to pollution.
Pollutants may include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and
solvents; oil and other automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid, swimming pool
water, and solid wastes and yard wastes; refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter or
other discarded or abandoned objects, ordinances, and accumulations, so that
same may cause or contribute to pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides,
and fertilizers: hazardous substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and
pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues
that result from construction a building or structure; and noxious or offensive
matter of any kind.
   P.   "Premises" means any building, lot parcel of land, or portion of land
whether improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   Q.   "Storm drainage system" means publicly-owned facilities by which storm
water is collected and/or conveyed, including but not limited to any roads with
drainage systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm
drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and human-
made or altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures.
   R.   "Storm water" means any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting
entirely of water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from
such precipitation.
   S.   "Storm water management plan" means a document which describes the best
management practices and activities to be implemented by a person or business
to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to
eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to storm water, storm water conveyance
systems, and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
   T.   "Wastewater" means any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated
storm water, discharged from a facility.
   U.   "Watercourse" includes and is not limited to the following: natural or
artificial rivers, creeks, streams, washes, arroyos, recorded drainage
easements, channels, ditches, canyons, ravines, sheet flows or other potential
flood hazards or flood plain areas or other bodies of water having banks and/or
beds through which waters flow on a recurrent basis.
Section 5-6-3 Applicability
This article shall apply to all water entering the storm drain system generated
on any developed and undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted by ADEQ or
the town as applicable.
Section 5-6-4 Responsibility for Administration
The Town of Carefree shall administer., implement, and enforce the provisions
of this article. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the Town of Carefree
may be delegated in writing by the town administrator to persons or entities
acting in the beneficial interest of or in the employ of the town.
Section 5-6-5 Severability
The provisions of this article are hereby declared to be severable. If any
provision, clause, sentence, or paragraph of this article or the application
thereof to any person, establishment, or circumstances shall be held invalid,
such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions or application of this
article.
Section 5-6-6 Discharge Prohibitions
   A. Prohibition of illegal discharges
      No person shall throw, drain, or otherwise discharge, cause, or allow
others under its control to throw, drain, or otherwise discharge into the MS4
any pollutants or waters containing any pollutants, other than storm water.
      The commencement, conduct or continuance of any illegal discharge to the
storm drain system is prohibited except as described as follows:
      1.   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this article: water line flushing, landscape irrigation,
diverted stream flows, rising ground waters, uncontaminated ground water
infiltration, uncontaminated pumped ground water, discharges from potable water
sources, foundation drains, air conditioning condensation, irrigation water,
springs. water from crawl space pumps, footing drains, lawn watering,
individual residential car washing, flows from riparian habitats and wetlands,
dechlorinated swimming pool discharges, and street wash water.
      2.   Discharges or flows from firefighting. and other discharges
specified in writing the Town of Carefree as being necessary to protect public
health and safety.
      3.   These prohibitions shall not apply to any non-storm water discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and aclministered under the authority of the United States
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), provided that the discharger is in full
compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other
applicable laws and regulation, and provided that written approval has been
granted for any discharge to the storm drain system.
   B.   Prohibition of illicit connections
      1.   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of illicit
connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
      2.   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
      3.   A person is considered to be in violation of this article if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4 or allows such a connection
to continue.
      4.   Improper connections in violation of this article must be
disconnected and redirected, if necessary, to an approved onsite wastewater
management system or the sanitary sewer system upon approval of the town.
      5.   Any drain or conveyance that has not been documented in plans, maps,
or equivalent, and which may be connected to the storm sewer system, shall be
located by the owner or occupant of that property upon receipt of written
notice of violation from the town requiring that such locating be completed.
Such notice will specify a reasonable time period within which the location of
the drain or conveyance is to be determined, that the drain or conveyance be
identified as storm sewer, sanitary sewer or other, and that the outfall
location or point of connection to the storm sewer system, sanitary sewer
system or other discharge point be identified. Results of these investigations
are to be documented and provided to the town.
Section 5-6-7 Watercourse Protection
Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical
integrity of the watercourse.
Section 5-6-8 Industrial or construction activity discharges
   A.   Submission of ADEO Notice of Intent Certificate to Town of Carefree
      1.   All owners/operators of construction activities, new or redeveloped
land, and industrial and commercial facilities shall minimize the discharge of
pollutants to the MS4 through the installation, implementation, and maintenance
of storm water control measures.
      2.   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES
storm water discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit.
Proof of compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to
the town prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4.
      3.   The operator of a facility, including construction sites, required
to have an NPDES permit to discharge storm water associated with industrial or
construction activity shall submit a copy of the certificate provided by ADEO
("ADEO Notice of Intent Certificate") to construction site operators, granting
coverage under the construction general permit, to the town at the same time
the operator submits the original ADEO Notice of Intent Certificate to the EPA
as applicable.
      4.   A person commits an offense if the person operates an industrial
facility or construction site that is discharging storm water associated with
the industrial or construction activity without having submitted a copy of the
ADEO Notice of Intent Certificate to do so to the town.
Section 5-6-9 Compliance Monitoring
   A. Right of entry; inspection and sampling
      The town shall be permitted to enter and inspect facilities subject to
regulation under this article as often as may be necessary to determine
compliance with this article.
      1.   If a discharger has security measures in force, which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the discharger
shall make the necessary arrangements to allow access to representatives of the
town.
      2.   Facility operators shall allow the town ready access to all parts of
the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, examination and copying
of records that must be kept under the conditions of an NPDES permit to
discharge storm water, and the performance of any additional duties as defined
by state and federal law.
      3.   The town shall have the right to set up on any permitted facility
such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the town to conduct monitoring
and/or sampling of the facility's storm water discharge.
      4.   The town has the right to require the discharger to install
monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring
equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operation
condition by the discharger at its own expense. All devices used to measure
storm water flow and quality shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
      5.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the town and shall not be replaced.
The costs of such access shall be borne by the operator.
      6.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the town access to a permitted
facility is a violation of a storm water discharge permit and of this article.
A person who is the operator of a facility with an NPDES permit to discharge
storm water associated with and industrial or construction activity commits an
offense if the person denies the town reasonable access to the permitted
facility for the purpose of conduction anv activity authorized or required by
this article.
   B.   Search warrants
      If the town has been refused access to any part of the premises from
which storm water pollution is discharged, and he/she is able to demonstrate
probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this article, or
that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection
and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this article or any
order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health. safety, and
welfare of the community, the town may seek issuance of a search warrant from
any court of competent jurisdiction.
Section 5-6-10 Requirement to Prevent, Control and Reduce Storm Water
Pollutants by the Use of Best Management Practices
The town will adopt requirements identifying best management practices for an
activity, operation, or facility, which may cause or contribute to pollution or
contamination of storm water, the storm drain system, or waters of the United
States. The owner or operator of such activity, operation, or facility shall
provide, at their own expense reasonable protection from accidental discharge
of prohibited materials or other wastes into the municipal storm drain system
or watercourses through the use of these structural and non-structural BMPs.
Further any person responsible for a property or premise that is, or may be,
the source of an illicit discharge, may be required to implement, at said
persons expense, additional structural and non-structural BMPs to prevent the
further discharge of pollutants to the MS4. Compliance with all terms and
conditions of a valid NPDHS permit authorizing the discharge of storm water
associated with the industrial or construction activity, to the extent
practicable, shall be deemed compliance with the. provisions of this section.
These BMPs shall be part of a storm water management plan (SWMP) as necessary
for compliance with the requirements of the NPDES permit.
Section 5-6-11 Notification of Spills
   A.   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person
responsible for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response
for a facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release
of materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or
pollutants discharging into storm water, the storm drain system, or waters of
the United States, said person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the
discovery, containment, and cleanup of such release.
   B.   In the event of such a release of hazardous materials said person shall
immediately notify emergency response agencies of the occurrence via emergency
dispatch services.
   C.   In the event of a release of non-hazardous materials, said person shall
notify the town in person or by phone or facsimile no later than the next
business day.
      1.   Notifications in person or bv phone shall be confirmed by written
notice addressed and mailed to the town within two business days of the phone
notice.
      2.   If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial,
industrial, or construction establishment or activity, the owner or operator
shall also retain an on-site written record of the discharge and the actions
taken to prevent its recurrence.
   D.   Failure to provide notification of a release as provided above is a
violation of this article.
Section 5-6-12 Violations, Enforcement and Penalties
   A.   Violations
      It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to
comply with any of the requirements of this article. Any person who has
violated or continues to violate the provisions of this article, may be subject
to the enforcement actions outlined in this section or may be restrained by
injunction or otherwise abated in a manner provided by law.
      In the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public
health or public safety, the town is authorized to enter upon the subject
property, without giving prior notice, to take any and all measures necessary
to abate the violation and/or restore the property. The town is authorized to
seek the costs of the abatement as outlined in Section
5-6-17.
   B.   Notice of violation
   Whenever the town finds that a person has violated a prohibition or failed
to meet a requirement of this article, the town may order compliance by written
notice of violation to the responsible person.
   C.   Compensatory action
   In lieu of the enforcement proceedings, penalties, and remedies authorized
bv this article, the town may impose upon a violator alternative compensatory
action such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at compliance workshops, wash
cleanup, etc.
   D.   Suspension of MS4 access
      1.   Emergency cease and desist orders
      When the town finds that any person has violated, or continues to
violate, anv provision of this article, or any order issued hereunder, or that
the person's past violations are likely to recur, and that the persons
violation(s) has (have) caused or contributed to an actual or threatened
discharge to the MS4 or waters of the United States which reasonably appears to
present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of
persons or to the environment the town may issue an order to the violator
directing it immediately to cease and desist all such violation and directing
the violator to:
         a.   Immediately comply with all ordinance requirements: and
         b.   Take such appropriate preventive action as mav be needed to
properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including immediately
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
      Any person notified of an emergency order directed to it under this
subsection shall immediately comply and stop or eliminate its endangering
discharge. In the event of a discharger's failure to immediately comply
voluntarily with the emergency order, the town may take such steps as deemed
necessary to prevent or minimize harm to the MS4 or waters of the United
States, and/or endangerment to persons or to the environment, including
immediate termination of a facility's water supply, sewer connection, or other
municipal utility services. The town may allow the person to recommence its
discharge when it has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the town that the
period of endangerment has passed, unless further termination proceedings are
initiated against the discharger under this article. A person that is
responsible, in whole or in part, for anv discharge presenting imminent
endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement, describing the causes
of the harmful discharge and the measures taken to prevent any future
occurrence, to the town within five days of receipt of the emergency order.
Issuance of an emergency cease and desist order shall not be a bar against or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the violator.
      2.   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations
      The town may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge access to a
person when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened
discharge, which presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the
environment, or to the health or welfare of person, or to the MS4 or waters of
the United States. If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order
issued in an emergency, the town may take such steps as deemed necessary to
prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or waters of the United States, or to
minimize danger to persons.
      3.   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge
         a.   Any person discharging to the MS4 in violation of this article
may have their MS4 access terminated if such termination would abate or reduce
an illicit discharge. The town will notify a violation of the proposed
termination of its MS4 access. The violator may petition the town for a
reconsideration and hearing.
         b.   A person commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access
to premises terminated pursuant to this Section, without the prior approval of
the town.
   E.   Civil penalties
      In the event the alleged violation fails to take the remedial measures
set forth in the notice of violation or otherwise fails to cure the violation
described therein within five days, or such greater period as the town shall
deem appropriate, after the town has taken one or more of the actions described
above, the town may impose a penalty not to exceed $750 (depending on the
severity of the violation) for each day the violation remains unremedied after
receipt of the notice of violation.
Section 5-6-13 Appeal of Notice of Violation
Any person receiving a Notice of Violation may appeal the determination of the
town. The notice of appeal must be received within five days from the date of
the Notice of Violation. Hearing on the appeal before the town administrator or
his designee shall take place within five days from the date of receipt of the
notice of appeal. The decision of the town administrator or their designee
shall be final.
Section 5-6-14 Enforcement Measures After Appeal
If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth
in the Notice of Violation, or. in the event of an appeal, within five days of
the decision of the town administrator or his designee upholding the decision
of the town, then representatives of the town shall enter upon the subject
private property and are authorized to take any and all measures necessary to
abate the violation and/or restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any
person, owner, agent or person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow
the governmental agency or designate contractor to enter upon the premises for
the purposes set forth above.
Section 5-6-15 Cost of Abatement of the Violation
   A.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, when a nuisance,
source of pollution or cause of sickness exists on private property, the town
shall order the owner or occupant to remove it within twenty-four hours at the
expense of the owner or occupant. The order may be delivered to the owner or
occupant in the same manner as provided for service of process under the
Arizona Rules of Civil Procedure. If the order is not complied with, the town
in addition to any other remedies allowed under this chapter shall cause the
nuisance, source of pollution or cause of sickness to be removed, and expenses
of removal shall be paid by the owner, occupant or other person who caused the
nuisance, source of filth or cause of sickness.
   B.    Any nuisance as defined in this chapter may be abated as provided in
Chapter 6. Offenses, Section
6-2-2 of this Code.
Section 5-6-16 Violations Seemed a Public Nuisance
In addition to the enforcement process and penalties provided, any condition
caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this
article is deemed to be a threat to public health, safety, and welfare and is
declared and deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the
violator's expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin. or otherwise compel
the cessation of such nuisance may be taken.
Section 5-6-17 Remedies Not Exclusive
The remedies listed in this article are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal, state or local law and it is within the
discretion of the town to seek cumulative remedies.
The town may recover all attorneys' fees, court costs and other expenses
associated with enforcement of this article, including sampling and monitoring
expenses.
Article 5-7 RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA*
   
5-7-1   Purpose
   
5-7-2   Definitions
   
5-7-3   Marijuana Prohibited on Public Property
   
5-7-4   Marijuana Establishment Prohibited; Dual Licensee Exception
   
5-7-5   Marijuana Testing Facility Prohibited
   
5-7-6   Violations and Penalties
Section 5-7-1 Purpose
This article is adopted to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the
community. Except as allowed by law for personal, private use the Town
prohibits the retail sale, cultivation, storage, processing, testing, and
manufacturing of marijuana in Town. Nothing in this article is intended to
promote or condone the sale, cultivation, manufacture, transport, production,
distribution, possession, storage or use of marijuana in violation of any
applicable law.
Section 5-7-2 Definitions
The below words and phrases, wherever used in this article, shall be construed
as defined in this section unless, clearly from the context, a different
meaning is intended. Words used in the present tense include the future tense,
words in the plural number include the singular number, and words in the
singular number include the plural number.
   A.   "Chemical Extraction" means the process of removing a particular
component of a mixture from others present, including removing resinous
tetrahydrocannabinol from marijuana.
   B.   "Chemical Synthesis" means production of a new particular molecule by
adding to, subtracting from, or changing the structure of a precursor molecule.
   C.   "Consume," "Consuming," and "Consumption" mean the act of ingesting,
inhaling or otherwise introducing marijuana into the human body.
   D.   "Consumer" means an individual who is at least twenty-one years of age
and who purchases marijuana or marijuana products.
   E.   "Cultivate" and "Cultivation" mean to propagate, breed, grow, prepare
and package marijuana.
   F.   "Department" means the State of Arizona Department of Health Services
or its successor agency.
   G.   "Dual Licensee" means an entity that holds both a nonprofit medical
marijuana dispensary registration and a marijuana establishment license.
   H.   "Extraction" means the process of extracting or separating resin from
marijuana to produce or process any form of marijuana concentrates using water,
lipids, gases, solvents, or other chemicals or chemical processes.
   I.   "Manufacture" and "Manufacturing" mean to compound, blend, extract,
infuse or otherwise make or prepare a marijuana product.
   J.   "Marijuana"
      1.   Means all parts of the plant of the genus cannabis, whether growing
or not, as well as the seeds from the plant, the resin extracted from any part
of the plant, and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or
preparation of the plant or its seeds or resin.
      2.   Includes cannabis as defined in A.R.S. § 13-3401.
      3.   Does not include industrial hemp, the fiber produced from the stalks
of the plant of the genus cannabis, oil or cake made from the seeds of the
plant, sterilized seeds of the marijuana to prepare topical or oral
administrations, food, drink or other products.
   K.   "Marijuana Concentrate:"
      1.   Means resin extracted from any part of a plant of the genus cannabis
and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of
that resin or tetrahydrocannabinol.
      2.   Does not include industrial hemp or the weight of any other
ingredient combined with cannabis to prepare topical or oral administrations,
food, drink or other products.
   L.   "Marijuana Establishment" means an entity licensed by the Department to
operate all of the following:
      1.   A single retail location at which the licensee may sell marijuana
and marijuana products to consumers, cultivate marijuana and manufacture
marijuana products.
      2.   A single off-site cultivation location at which the licensee may
cultivate marijuana, process marijuana and manufacture marijuana products, but
from which marijuana and marijuana products may not be transferred or sold to
consumers.
      3.   A single off-site location at which the licensee may manufacture
marijuana and marijuana products and package and store marijuana and marijuana
products, but from which marijuana and marijuana products may not be
transferred or sold to consumers.
   M.    "Marijuana Products" means marijuana concentrate and products that are
composed of marijuana and other ingredients and that are intended for use or
consumption, including edible products, ointments, and tinctures.
   N.   "Marijuana Testing Facility" means the Department or another entity
that is licensed by the Department to analyze the potency of marijuana and test
marijuana for harmful contaminants.
   O.   "Nonprofit Medical Marijuana Dispensary" means a non-profit entity as
defined in A.R.S. § 36-2801(12).
   P.   "Open Space" means a public park, public sidewalk, public walkway or
public pedestrian thoroughfare.
   Q.   "Person" means an individual, partnership, corporation, association, or
any other entity of whatever kind or nature.
   R.   "Process" and 'Processing" means to harvest, dry, cure, trim or
separate parts of the marijuana plant.
   S.   "Public Place" has the same meaning prescribed in the Smoke-Free-
Arizona Act, A.R.S. § 36-601.01.
   T.   "Smoke" means to inhale, exhale, burn, carry or possess any lighted
marijuana or lighted marijuana products, whether natural or synthetic.
Section 5-7-3 Marijuana Prohibited on Public Property
   A.   The use, sale, cultivation, manufacture, production, storage or
distribution of marijuana or marijuana products is prohibited on property that
is occupied, owned, controlled or operated by the Town.
   B.   It is unlawful for an individual to smoke marijuana or consume
marijuana products on property that is occupied, owned, controlled or operated
by the Town.
   C.   It is unlawful for an individual to smoke marijuana or consume
marijuana products in any open space in Town.
   D.   It is unlawful for an individual to smoke in a public place in Town.
Section 5-7-4 Marijuana Establishment Prohibited; Dual Licensee Exception
   A.   To the fullest extent allowable by law, the operation of a marijuana
establishment is not permitted in Town, except where authorized for a dual
licensee who:
      1.   Operates both a nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary and marijuana
establishment cooperatively in a shared location; and
      2.   Has not forfeited or terminated the nonprofit medical marijuana
dispensary registration from the Department.
Section 5-7-5 Marijuana Testing Facility Prohibited
To the fullest extent allowable by law, the operation of a marijuana testing
facility is not permitted in the Town.
Section 5-7-6 Violations and Penalties
   A.   It is unlawful and a violation of this article for a person to sell,
cultivate, process, manufacture, store, or transport marijuana or marijuana
products, if the person fails to meet all requirements in this article or state
law, including the Departments rules.
   B.   Each day any violation of any provision of this article shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense.
   C.   Except as otherwise provided in A.R.S. § 36-2853, A.R.S. § 36-2854 or
as otherwise provided above, any violation of this article shall be a class one
misdemeanor.
   D.   Violations of this article are in addition to any other violation
enumerated within the Town Ordinances or the Town Code and in no way limits the
penalties or abatement procedures which may be taken by the Town for any
violation of this article, which is also a violation of any other ordinance or
Code provision of the Town or federal or state law. Conviction and punishment
of judgement and civil sanction against any person under this article shall not
relieve such person from the responsibility of correcting prohibited
conditions, or removing prohibited structures or improvements, and shall not
prevent the enforced correction or removal thereof.
   E.   The remedies provided in this article shall be cumulative and in
addition to any federal, state, or local remedy, which may be available.
Nothing contained herein shall be construed to preclude prosecution under any
other applicable state, ordinance, rule, order, or regulation.
CHAPTER 6 OFFENSES
Article 6-1   REMOVAL OF DEBRIS *
   
6-1-1   Definition
   
6-1-2   Owner to Maintain Premises
   
6-1-3   Notice to Remove
   
6-1-4   Appeal to Council
   
6-1-5   Removal by Town
   
6-1-6   Lien for Removal
   
6-1-7   Violations and Penalties
 
Notes
* *Ordinances 87-04 and 89-26 in part
Section 6-1-1 Definition **
For purposes of this Article, the term "debris" shall mean rubbish, trash,
garbage or other accumulation of filth, refuse or debris, and shall include,
without limitation, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandon, wrecked,
junked or inoperable vehicles, machinery, tanks, or parts of any of the
foregoing, brush, tree limbs, yard clippings and other similar materials, and
market and industrial wastes.
 
Notes
** **Ordinance 01-01 in part
Section 6-1-2 Owner to Maintain Premises
No owner, occupant or lessee of any property within the limits of the town,
including buildings, grounds, lots, or contiguous sidewalks, streets and
alleys, shall permit debris to accumulate or remain on such property if such
material constitutes or may constitute a blight on the appearance of the
neighborhood, a threat to surrounding property values or a hazard to public
health and safety.
Section 6-1-3 Notice to Remove
In the event that the chief building official shall determine that any owner,
occupant or lessee of property is violating the provisions of Section
6-1-2, he shall cause written notice of such violation to be given to such
person. If such person is not the owner of the property, notice shall also be
given to the owner. The notice shall be either personally served or mailed by
registered or certified mail. If notice is mailed to the owner or lessee of the
property, it shall be sent to its last known address, or at the address to
which the tax bill for the property was last mailed. If the owner does not
reside on the property, a duplicate copy of the notice shall be sent to him at
his last known address. The notice shall specify the nature of the violation
and shall also state the estimated cost to be assessed in the event that the
debris causing the violation is to be removed by the town. The notice shall
advise the person to whom it is sent that in the event that the violation shall
not be corrected within thirty days from the date upon which the notice is
given, the town will cause the violation to be corrected at the expense of the
owner.
Section 6-1-4 Appeal to Council
Within ten days after the giving of the notice described in Section
6-1-3, the owner, occupant or lessee may appeal to the council the
determination of the chief building official as to the violation of this
article, as to the cost to be assessed for removal of the debris by the town,
or as to both such matters. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the town
clerk a written notice of appeal, setting forth the basis upon which the
council is requested to reverse the determination of the chief building
official. The appeal shall be heard by the council, which after hearing shall
enter in its minutes an appropriate notation affirming, modifying or reversing
the determination of the chief building official. In the event of affirmance or
modification, the owner, occupant or lessee affected by the notice shall have
an additional ten days from the date of the action by the council in which to
remove the matter referred to in the notice as originally given or as modified
by the council. The notice sent by the chief building official shall advise the
recipient in general terms of the right of appeal to the council.
Section 6-1-5 Removal by Town
If a violation of Section
6-1-2 shall continue for more than the periods specified in this article, the
chief building official or his designee may abate or remove the debris
specified in the notice. The expense of such removal or abatement, together
with an additional sum equal to five percent of such cost, shall be a debt
which may be collected by the town from any person to whom notice of the
violation was sent as provided in Section
6-1-3.
Section 6-1-6 Lien for Removal
In the event that the town shall, after the expiration of the periods of time
specified in this article, cause the abatement or removal of the debris,
specified in the notice, pursuant to Section
6-1-5, the cost incurred by the town for such removal, together with an
additional sum equal to five percent of that cost, shall be assessed, and may
be enforced, as a lien against the lot or tract of land from which the debris
was removed pursuant to the provisions of Section 9-499, Arizona Revised
Statutes. Written notice of such assessment, reciting the proceedings
theretofore taken under this article shall be delivered to the Maricopa County
Recorder for recordation.
Section 6-1-7 Violations and Penalties
   A.   Every person who shall violate Section
6-1-2 and who shall not correct or cure such violation within the time
specified herein, shall upon admission or judicial determination thereof, be
responsible for a civil offense, and shall be subject to imposition of a civil
sanction of up to seven hundred fifty dollars.
   B.   Any person who shall place any debris upon any private or public
property not owned by him or under his control shall, upon admission or
judicial determination thereof, be responsible for a civil offense, and shall
be subject to imposition of a civil sanction of up to seven hundred fifty
dollars. In addition to such penalty such person shall be liable for all costs
which may be assessed pursuant to this article for the removal of such debris.
Article 6-2   NUISANCES; ALL TERRAIN VEHICLES  *
   
6-2-1   Definition; Nuisance Prohibited
   
6-2-2   Abatement
   
6-2-3   Littering
   
6-2-4   Noise
   
6-2-5   All Terrain Vehicles
   
6-2-6   Violations and Penalties
 
Notes
* *Ordinances 86-02, 89-24, 89-26, 90-07 in part, 92-07, 98-16 and 01-01.
Section 6-2-1 Definition; Nuisance Prohibited
A public nuisance is anything which is injurious to health, or is indecent, or
offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as
to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property or which
unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any
park, square, street or highway and is hereby declared a violation of this
code.
Section 6-2-2 Abatement *
   A.   No person shall refuse or neglect to remove, abate or destroy any
public nuisance caused by him or located on real property of which he is the
owner, lessee or occupant.
   B.   Any thing, act, occupation, condition or use of property which has been
declared as a nuisance by this article may be summarily abated by order of the
town court upon the verified petition for such an order filed by the town
marshal.
   C.   Any person who violates, disobeys, refuses to comply with, or who
resists the enforcement of, subsection A. of this section is guilty of a Class
1 misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not to exceed two thousand five hundred
dollars, by imprisonment for a period not to exceed six months jail, by a term
of probation not to exceed three years, or by any combination of such fine,
imprisonment or probation.
 
Notes
* *Amended by Ordinance 2022-01
Section 6-2-3 Littering  **
   A.   The purpose of this section is to accomplish litter control in the
town. It is intended to place upon all persons within the town the duty of
contributing to the public cleanliness and appearance of the town in order to
promote the public health, safety and welfare, and to protect the economic
interests of the people of the town against unsanitary and unsightly
conditions. It is further the intent of this section to protect the people
against the health and safety menace and the expense incident to littering.
   B.   It is hereby declared a nuisance and unlawful for any person to throw,
drop, deposit or otherwise dispose of any litter which shall include but not be
limited to any garbage, paper, refuse, glass, debris or any other unsightly
waste material, upon any public place in the town or any private property not
owned by him within the jurisdiction of the town, whether from a vehicle or
otherwise, including but no limited to any sidewalk, street, highway or park.
   C.   No person shall own or operate any business or activity in respect to
the service of transient habitation such as gasoline service stations, taverns,
grocery store parking lots, shopping centers, drive-in restaurants and other
such public places without providing litter receptacles in number appropriate
to need. It shall be the responsibility of the person required to provide
litter receptacles to remove and dispose of the litter deposited in such
receptacles at appropriate time intervals.
   D.   No person shall throw or discard any handbill upon any public place or
private property within the town, including placing handbills on windshields or
other portions of vehicles parked upon any public or private place, provided,
however, that it is not a violation for any person to hand out, without charge
to the receiver thereof, any handbill to any occupant of a vehicle, or to any
other person who is willing to accept such handbill.
   E.   No person shall drive a vehicle on any street unless such vehicle is so
constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping, leaking or
otherwise escaping therefrom. Any person owning or operating a vehicle from
which any litter has fallen, leaked or escaped shall be guilty of littering and
shall immediately cause such street to be cleaned of all such litter and shall
bear any cost therefor in addition to any sanctions provided in this article.
   F.   Debris resulting from the construction, reconstruction or repair of
premises shall be disposed of or properly contained in a dumpster approved by
the town building official within twenty four hours by the contractor or the
person owning, occupying or leasing the premises where such debris is
accumulated.
 
Notes
** *Amended by Ordinance 01-01
Section 6-2-4 Noise 1
In order to promote the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the Town
of Carefree, the creating, permitting or allowing of any unreasonably loud and
disturbing noise within the Town of Carefree limits is hereby prohibited.
Noise of such character, intensity or duration as to be detrimental to the
life, health or well-being of any individual, or as to unreasonably disturb the
public peace or the peace and quiet of a neighborhood, family or person is
hereby prohibited. The following acts, actions and activities, among others,
are hereby declared to be loud and disturbing, in violation of this Ordinance,
but the enumeration that follows shall not be deemed to be exclusive.
   A.   Unless written permission is received from the Town of Carefree in
advance, it is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and is unlawful for any
person or persons, firm or corporation owning, operating or in control of any
residence, restaurant, hotel, dance hall, show, store or any place of
amusement, entertainment or accommodation, to play, or permit to be played, any
music or musical instrument(s), whether played by individual(s), orchestra(s),
radio(s), phonographs(s), music box(s), compact disk player(s), tape player(s),
or other mechanical or electrical device, in such a manner that annoys or
disturbs either:
      1.   two (2) reasonable people of normal sensory perception, not residing
in the same house, or
      2.   one (1) law enforcement officer engaged in his or her official
duties and responsibilities.
   B.   Unless written permission is received from the Town of Carefree in
advance, it is unlawful for any person or persons to play any radio, stereo
player or other sound device, including but not limited to, loudspeakers or
other devices for the production or amplification of sound, from within a motor
vehicle or other means of transportation, in such a manner that annoys or
disturbs either:
      1.   two (2) reasonable people of normal sensory perception, not residing
in the same house, or
      2.   one (1) law enforcement officer engaged in his or her official
duties and responsibilities.
   C.   Unless written permission is received from the Town of Carefree in
advance, it shall be unlawful except between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 7:00
p.m., Monday through Saturday, and between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 7:00
p.m., Sunday and holidays for any person or persons, place or firm to operate,
cause to be operated, or allow to be operated, any equipment, apparatus, tool,
machinery or other device used for the purpose of construction, destruction,
building, assembly or disassembly, of any building or structure, whether
residential or commercial, in such a manner that annoys or disturbs either:
      1.   two (2) reasonable people of normal sensory perception, not residing
in the same house, or
      2.   one (1) law enforcement officer engaged in his or her official
duties and responsibilities.
      Holidays shall be New Year's Day, President's Day, Easter Sunday,
Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day.
   D.   In regard to motor vehicle noise:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle including a
motorcycle in such a manner as to cause the tires to squeal or screech.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to repair, rebuild,
or test, any motor vehicle including a motorcycle, in such a manner that annoys
or disturbs either:
         a.   two (2) reasonable people of normal sensory perception, not
residing in the same house, or
         b.   one (1) law enforcement officer engaged in his or her official
duties and responsibilities.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to operate a motor
vehicle, a motorcycle, or combination of vehicles, at any time, or under any
condition of grade, load, acceleration or deceleration, in such a manner that
annoys or disturbs either:
         a.   two (2) reasonable people of normal sensory perception, not
residing in the same house, or
         b.   one (1) law enforcement officer engaged in his or her official
duties and responsibilities.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any motorcycle at any
time or under any condition of grade, load, acceleration or deceleration in
such a manner as to exceed the following noise limits:
 
                                SPEED LIMIT OF MORE
MODEL YEAR OF SPEED LIMIT OF 35 THAN 35 M.P.H. AND LESS SPEED LIMIT OF MORE
MOTORCYCLE    M.P.H. OR LESS    THAN OR EQUAL TO 45     THAN 45 M.P.H.
                                M.P.H.
BEFORE 1972   84 DBA            88 DBA                  88 DBA
1972-1980     79 DBA            82 DBA                  86 DBA
AFTER 1980    76 DBA            80 DBA                  83 DBA
 
         a.   The noise limits established by this section shall be based on
measurements taken at a distance of fifty (50) feet from the center of the lane
of travel within the specified speed limit. Noise measurements can be made at
distances other than fifty (50) feet from the center of the lane of travel. In
such cases, the measurement shall be corrected to what it would be at the
standard distance of fifty (50) feet, for comparison with the standard.
      5.   EXCEPTIONS. This ordinance shall not apply to aircrafts and
emergency vehicles.
   E.   No person shall collect or remove garbage in any residential or
commercial district except between the hours after sunrise to 9:00 p.m.
   F.   Any person or owner and/or operator of a motor vehicle, including a
motorcycle, found to be in violation of any of the provisions of this Section
6-2-4, shall be deemed guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of
not more than two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00), imprisonment for
up to one hundred eighty (180) days, probation for up to three (3) years, or
any combination.
   G.   In lieu of or in addition to pursuing criminal prosecution for any
violation of any of the provisions of this Section
6-2-4, the town may issue a civil citation for any violation of any of the
provisions of this Section
6-2-4 and may bring civil proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction to
seek imposition of civil sanctions and to enforce compliance with this Section
6-2-4 including prevention, restraining and/or abatement of the violation(s).
Use of the civil citation alternative is not mandatory and shall be at the
discretion of the town official undertaking enforcement action.
   H.   Any violation of any of the provisions of this Section
6-2-4 is declared to be a public nuisance and the town may enjoin or restrain
said violation like any other nuisance under authority of any applicable town
or State law.
 
Notes
1 *Amended by Ordinance 02-14; Ordinance 04-04; Ordinance 2007-06
Section 6-2-5 All Terrain Vehicles 1
   A.   No person shall operate an all terrain vehicle in such a manner as to
be injurious to health by reason of excessive dust or noise and so as to
interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life and property by persons in the
vicinity of such vehicle's operations.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or drive or leave any
motor vehicle, motorcycle, mini-bike, trailbike, dune buggy, motor scooter,
jeep or other form of transportation propelled by an internal combustion
engine, upon the private property of another or upon public property which is
not held open to the public for vehicle use, without the written permission of
the owner thereof or the person entitled to immediate possession thereof, or
the authorized agent of either. Whenever any person is stopped by a police
officer of the town for violation of this subsection, he/she shall, upon
request of the police officer, display written permission.
 
Notes
1 *Ordinances 86-02, 86-04 and 02-07
Section 6-2-6 Violations and Penalties 1
   A.   Any person or owner and/or operator of a motor vehicle, including a
motorcycle, found to be in violation of any section of this
Article 6-2, shall be deemed responsible/guilty as follows:
      1.   A first offense shall be deemed a civil infraction, punishable by a
fine of not more than one hundred seventy-five dollars ($175.00).
      2.   A second offense committed within twelve (12) months shall be deemed
a civil infraction, punishable by a fine of not more than three hundred fifty
dollars ($350.00).
      3.   A third offense committed within twelve (12) months shall be deemed
a Class 1 misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than two thousand five-
hundred dollars ($2,500.00), imprisonment for up to one hundred eighty (180)
days, probation for up to three (3) years, or any combination.
      4.   The dates of violation shall control.
   B.   Except where otherwise provided, any person who violates, disobeys,
omits, neglects or refuses to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of,
any of the provisions of this article shall upon admission or judicial
determination thereof be responsible for a civil offense and shall be subject
to imposition of a civil sanction of up to seven hundred fifty dollars.
 
Notes
1 **Modified by Ordinances 01-01 and 02-14
Article 6-3   NO SHOOTING  *
   
6-3-1   Firing or Discharge of Weapons
   
6-3-2   Exceptions
   
6-3-3   Violations and Penalties
 
Notes
* *Ordinance 87-02 and 89-26 in part
Section 6-3-1 Firing or Discharge of Weapons
Except as provided by Section
6-3-2, no person shall, within the town limits, fire, discharge or shoot any
firearm or bow and arrow, including but not limited to, a pistol, revolver,
rifle, shotgun, air gun, BB gun, pellet gun, dart gun, gas operated gun,
crossbow or other similar gun or instrument.
Section 6-3-2 Exceptions 1
   A.   The provisions of Section
6-3-1 shall not apply to the use of any gun or instrument by:
      1.   A law enforcement officer or other duly authorized public official
or employee in performance of any official duty.
      2.   Any person on a properly supervised range.
      3.   Any person to whom a special permit is issued by the town marshal
for use of such gun or instrument for a valid and proper purpose and for use in
a manner not likely to harm any person, animal or property.
      4.   Any person when used only for the necessary protection of property,
habitation or person in a manner authorized by the laws of the State or under
or within rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the State or the United
States.
   B.   A properly supervised range for the purposes of this section means a
range designed, maintained and operated in a manner that insures that any
projectile from a weapon at all times remains within the range, operated by a
club affiliated with the National Rifle Association of America, the Amateur
Trapshooting Association, the National Skeet Association or any other
nationally recognized bow and arrow or firearm shooting organization, any
agency of the federal government, State of Arizona, county or city within which
the range is located, or any public or private school, and in the case of air
or carbon dioxide gas operated guns, or underground ranges on private or public
property, such ranges may be operated with adult supervision.
 
Notes
1 *Amended by Ordinance 01-01
Section 6-3-3 Violations and Penalties **
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with or
who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this article shall,
upon admission or conviction thereof, be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor and
shall be punished by imposition of a fine of up to two thousand five hundred
dollars, by imprisonment for a period not to exceed six months in jail, by a
term of probation not to exceed three years, or by any combination of such
fine, imprisonment or probation for such violation.
 
Notes
** Amended by Ordinance 01-01 and 2022-01
Article 6-4   PUBLIC PLACES *
   
6-4-1   Trespassing on Town Property
   
6-4-2   Vehicles in Parks
   
6-4-3   Camping In Public Places
   
6-4-4   Congregating or Loitering on Street or Sidewalk
   
6-4-5   Violations and Penalties
 
Notes
* *Ordinance 91-01; Amended by Ordinance 02-07
Section 6-4-1 Trespassing on Town Property
No person shall enter or remain unlawfully in or upon any property, whether
real or personal, or any structure of the town which has been posted with a
sign or other notice stating that trespassing is prohibited pursuant to this
article. For purposes of this article, "enter" means the intrusion of any part
of a person's body inside the external boundaries of real property or upon any
personal property or structure.
Section 6-4-2 Vehicles in Parks 1
No person shall ride or drive at any time any automobile, truck, motorcycle,
motor scooter, or other motor vehicle, horse or animal upon the grounds of any
municipal park, playground or recreation area, except in public streets running
through such premises or within designated parking areas located upon the
premises.
 
Notes
1 **Ordinance 02-07
Section 6-4-3 Camping In Public Places 1
   A.   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section shall
have the meanings ascribed to them below:
      1.   "Camp" means to reside in or use a park, street, or other public
place for living accommodation purposes, including, but not limited to,
activities such as erecting tents or any other structure providing shelter,
digging or breaking earth, laying down bedding for the purpose of sleeping,
using camp paraphernalia, storing personal belongings, starting a fire,
regularly cooking or preparing meals, or living in a parked vehicle.
      2.   "Camp paraphernalia" includes, but is not limited to, tarpaulins,
cots, beds, sleeping bags, hammocks or non-town designed cooking facilities and
similar equipment.
      3.   "Public park" means all town parks and playgrounds.
      4.   "Public street" means all public streets and highways, public
sidewalks, public benches, public parking lots and public parking structures.
      5.   "Public place" means public plazas including the Carefree Town
Center, transportation facilities, schools, attractions, monuments and any
improved or unimproved public area.
   B.   No person shall camp in any public park, street or place, except when
specifically authorized by a permit issued by the town.
 
Notes
1 ***Amended by Ordinance 01-01 and Ordinance 02-07
Section 6-4-4 Congregating or Loitering on Street or Sidewalk 1
It shall be unlawful for any persons to congregate or loiter upon any public
street, sidewalk, alley or thoroughfare in the town in such manner as to
interfere with pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
 
Notes
1 *Amended by Ordinance 01-01 and Ordinance 02-07
Section 6-4-5 Violations and Penalties
Any person who violates, disobeys, or refuses to comply with, or who resists
the enforcement of, any provision of this article shall upon admission or
judicial determination thereof be responsible for a civil offense and shall be
subject to imposition of a civil sanction of up to seven hundred fifty dollars.
Article 6-5   CURFEW HOURS FOR MINORS  **
   
6-5-1   Definitions
   
6-5-2   Offenses
   
6-5-3   Defenses/Exceptions
   
6-5-4   Enforcement
   
6-5-5   Violations and Penalties
 
Notes
** **Ordinance 96-13. Amended by Ordinance 01-01
Section 6-5-1 Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
   A.   "Adult" means any person eighteen years of age or over.
   B.   "Emergency" means an unforeseen combination of circumstances or the
resulting state that reasonably calls for immediate action.
   C.   "Guardian" means a person who, under court order, is the guardian of
the person of a minor or a public or private agency with whom a minor has been
placed by an authorized agency or court; of at least 21 years of age and
authorized by a parent or guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
   D.   "Insufficient control" means failure to exercise reasonable care and
diligence in the supervision of the juvenile.
   E.   "Minor" means any person under eighteen years of age.
   F.   "Parent" means a person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent or
step-parent of another person.
Section 6-5-2 Offenses *
   A.   If is unlawful for any minor under the age of sixteen years to be in,
about or upon any place in the town away from the property where the youth
resides between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of the following day.
   B.   It is unlawful for any minor sixteen years of age or older and under
the age of eighteen years, to be in, about or upon any place in the town away
from the property where the child resides between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and
5:00 a.m.
   C.   It is unlawful for a parent or guardian of a minor to knowingly permit,
or by insufficient control, allow a minor to violate subsections A or B of this
section.
   D.   It is unlawful for a parent, guardian or other person having the care,
custody or supervision of the minor to fail or refuse to take custody of the
minor after such demand is made upon him by a law enforcement officer who cites
the minor for violation of subsection A or B of Section
6-5-2.
   E.   It is unlawful for any minor to attend and/or be present at an unlawful
gathering as defined in Section
6-2-4.
 
Notes
* *Amended by Ordinance 2023-03
Section 6-5-3 Defenses/Exceptions  *
It is a defense to prosecution under Section
6-5-2 that the minor was:
   A.   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian.
   B.   With prior permission of the parent or guardian, in a motor vehicle
involved in interstate travel.
   C.   With prior permission of the parent or guardian, in an employment
activity or going to or returning home from an employment activity without any
detour or stop by the most direct route.
   D.   Involved in an emergency.
   E.   With prior permission of the parent or guardian, was engaged in
reasonable legitimate and specific business or activity supervised by one or
more adults who take responsibility for the minor. Examples include, but are
not limited to, a juvenile with prior permission of the parent or guardian,
attending an official school, religious or other recreational activity
supervised by adults who take responsibility for the minor.
   F.   With prior permission of the parent or guardian, engaged in a
reasonable and legitimate exercise of First Amendment rights protected by the
United States Constitution supervised by one or more adults who take
responsibility for the minor.
   G.   Married and 16 years of age or over, or in the military.
 
Notes
* *Amended by Ordinance 01-01
Section 6-5-4 Enforcement
   A.   Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a police
officer shall attempt to ascertain the apparent offender's age and reason for
being in the place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest
under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based upon the circumstances, the minor's responses and
minor's conduct, no defense as provided in Section 6-5-3 is probably present.
   B.   In addition to any other powers he/she may have, any law enforcement
officer who arrests a minor for violating any of the provisions of subsections
A or B of Section 6-5-2 is also hereby empowered to demand of the parent,
guardian or other person to come and take the minor into custody. The law
enforcement officer is also empowered to take the minor to a designated
location where arrangements can be made for a parent, guardian or other
appropriate party to take the minor into custody. Should there be a failure of
the parent, guardian or other person to take custody of such minor, the officer
may then be empowered to take the minor home.
Section 6-5-5 Violations and Penalties 1
   A.   Each violation of the provisions of Sections
6-5-2 shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   Any adult who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply
with, or who resists the enforcement of, any of the provisions of this article
shall upon admission or judicial determination thereof be responsible for a
civil offense and shall be subject to imposition of a civil sanction of up to
seven hundred fifty dollars.
   C.   Any minor who violates the provisions of this article shall upon
admission or judicial determination thereof be responsible for a civil offense
and shall be subject to imposition of a civil sanction of up to five hundred
dollars.
 
Notes
1 *Amended by Ordinance 01-01
Article 6-6   LANDSCAPING DEBRIS  **
   
6-6-1   Offenses
   
6-6-2   Violations and Penalties
 
Notes
** **Ordinance 2008-02
Section 6-6-1 Offenses  ***
   A.   A "leaf blower" means any portable engine-driven device used to blow
leaves, dirt and other debris off sidewalks, driveways, lawns or other
surfaces.
   B.   No person shall blow any landscaping debris onto public rights-of-way
and/or upon neighboring properties at any time.
   C.   Never blow directly onto an unstabilized surface at any time.
   D.   Leaf-blowers shall not be used, except in vacuum mode, on High
Pollution Advisory Days.
 
Notes
*** ***Ordinance 2015-01
Section 6-6-2 Violations and Penalties
Any person who violates, disobeys or refuses to comply with, or who resists the
enforcement of any provision of this article shall upon admission or judicial
determination thereof be responsible for a civil offense and shall be subject
to imposition of a civil sanction of up to seven hundred fifty dollars.
Article 6-7   FIREWORKS  *
   
6-7-1   Definitions
   
6-7-2   Fireworks Prohibited; Exceptions
   
6-7-3   Sale of Fireworks
   
6-7-4   Posting of Signs By Persons Engaged in the Sale of Fireworks; Civil
Penalty
   
6-7-5   Authority to Enforce Violations of this Article; Means of Enforcement
   
6-7-6   Liability for Emergency Responses Related to Use of Fireworks;
Definitions
   
6-7-7   Penalty
 
Notes
* *Ordinance 2010-08
Section 6-7-1 Definitions
   A.   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
      1.   "Consumer firework" means those fireworks defined by Section 36-
1601, Arizona Revised Statutes.
      2.   "Display firework" means those fireworks defined by Section 36-1601,
Arizona Revised Statutes.
      3.   "Fireworks" means any combustible or explosive composition,
substance or combination of substances, or any article prepared for the purpose
of producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration
or detonation, that is a consumer firework, display firework or permissible
consumer firework as defined by Section 36-1601, Arizona Revised Statutes.
      4.   "Novelty items" means federally deregulated novelty items that are
known as glow worms, snakes, toy smoke devices, sparklers, and certain toys as
defined in Section 36-1601, Arizona Revised Statutes.
      5.   "Permissible consumer fireworks" means those fireworks as defined by
Section 36-1601, Arizona Revised Statutes that may be sold within the town even
where the use of those items has been prohibited.
      6.   "Supervised public display" means a monitored performance of display
fireworks open to the public and authorized by permit by the town's fire chief
or his or her designee.
Section 6-7-2 Fireworks Prohibited; Exceptions 1
   A.   The use, discharge or ignition of fireworks within the town is
prohibited except for June 24 through July 6 and December 24 through January 3
or other town event between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m. and with a
permit issued by the town's fire chief or his or her designee.
   B.   The use, discharge or ignition of novelty items defined in Section
6-7-1(A)(4) shall be strictly prohibited.
   C.   Permits may be granted by the town's fire chief or designee for
conducting a properly supervised public display of fireworks. Every such public
display of fireworks shall be of such character and so located, discharged or
fired, only after proper inspection and in a manner that does not endanger
persons, animals, or property. A permit shall not be issued, and may be
revoked, during time periods of high fire danger warnings. The town's fire
chief or designee has authority to impose conditions on any permits granted.
   D.   Failure to comply with any permit requirements issued by the town's
fire chief or designee is punishable by a civil penalty of one thousand
($1,000) dollars for each violation.
 
Notes
1 *Amended by Ordinance 2014-04
Section 6-7-3 Sale of Fireworks 1
   A.   No person shall sell or permit or authorize the sale of permissible
consumer fireworks to a person who is under sixteen years of age.
   B.    No person shall sell or permit or authorize the sale of permissible
consumer fireworks in conflict with state law.
   C.   The sale of permissible consumer fireworks shall be allowed from May 20
through July 6 and December 10 through January 3 each year.
 
Notes
1 **Amended by Ordinance 2014-04
Section 6-7-4 Posting of Sign By Persons Engaged in the Sale of Fireworks;
Civil Penalty  *
   A.   Prior to the sale of permissible consumer fireworks, every person
engaged in such sales shall prominently display signs indicating the following:
      1.   The use of fireworks, including novelty items as defined by town
code, is prohibited.
      2.   Consumer fireworks authorized for sale under state law may not be
sold to persons under the age of sixteen.
    B.   Signs required under this section shall be placed at each cash
register and in each area where fireworks arc displayed for sale.
   C.   The town's fire chief or designee shall develop regulations concerning
the size and color of the required signs and shall develop a model sign. The
required sign regulations and model sign shall be filed with the town clerk's
office.
   D.   Failure to comply with subsections A and B of this section is a civil
offense punishable by fine of one thousand ($1,000) dollars.
 
Notes
* *Amended by Ordinance 2014-04
Section 6-7-5 Authority to Enforce Violations of This Article; Means of
Enforcement
   A.   The town's fire chief or designee, a police officer, town code
enforcement officer, or the town attorney may issue civil complaints to enforce
violations of this article designated as civil offenses.
   B.   Any person authorized pursuant to this section to issue a civil
complaint may also issue a notice of violation specifying actions to be taken
and the time in which they are to be taken to avoid issuance of a civil or
criminal complaint.
   C.   A police officer, town code enforcement officer or town attorney may
issue criminal complaints to enforce this article.
Section 6-7-6 Liability for Emergency Responses Related to Use of Fireworks;
Definitions
   A.   A person who uses, discharges or ignites permissible consumer
fireworks, fireworks or anything that is designed or intended to rise into the
air and explode or to detonate in the air or to fly above the ground, is liable
for the expenses of any emergency response that is required by such use,
discharge or ignition. The fact that a person is convicted or found responsible
for a violation(s) of this article is prima facie evidence of liability under
this section.
   B.   The expenses of an emergency response are a charge against the person
liable for those expenses pursuant to subsection A of this section. The charge
constitutes a debt of that person and may be collected proportionately by the
public agencies, for-profit entities or not-for-profit entities that incurred
the expenses. The liability imposed under this section is in addition to and
not in limitation of any other liability that may be imposed.
    C.   For the purposes of this section:
      1.    "Expenses of an emergency response" means reasonable costs directly
incurred by public agencies, for-profit entities or not-for-profit entities
that make an appropriate emergency response to an incident.
      2.   "Reasonable costs" includes the costs of providing police, fire
fighting, rescue and emergency medical services at the scene of an incident and
the salaries of the persons who respond to the incident.
Section 6-7-7 Penalty 1
The penalty for violating any prohibition or requirement imposed by this
article shall be subject to a civil penalty of one thousand ($1,000) dollars
unless another penalty is specifically provided for.
 
Notes
1 *Amended by Ordinance 2014-04
Article 6-8 SHORT-TERM RENTALS AND VACATION RENTALS *
   
6-8-1   Purpose
   
6-8-2   Definitions
   
6-8-3   Licensing
   
6-8-4   Prohibitions and Operational Requirements
   
6-8-5   Neighbor Notification
 
Notes
* * Ordinance 2022-03
Section 6-8-1 Purpose
This article is necessary to protect the health, safety and welfare of the
public.
Section 6-8-2 Definitions
For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   A.   "Banquet space" means an event center that is used for serving and/or
consuming food and/or beverages.
   B.   "Event center" means any dwelling unit (i) for which the occupant has
made payment for transient use of the dwelling unit and (ii) which is used for
special events or other nonresidential uses.
   C.   "Nonresidential use" means any use that is not permitted in a
residential zoning district pursuant to the Zoning Ordinance, any use that
constitutes an unlawful gathering as defined herein, and any use for which
entrants pay an entrance fee.
   D.   "Owner's designee" means a person authorized to act on behalf of the
owner of a short-term rental or vacation rental.
   E.   "Short-term rental" or "vacation rental" means any individually or
collectively owned single family or one-to-four-family house or dwelling unit
or any unit or group of units in a condominium, cooperative or timeshare, which
is also a transient public lodging establishment or owner-occupied residential
home offered for transient use. "Short-term rental" and "vacation rental" do
not include a unit that is used for any nonresidential use, including retail,
restaurant, banquet space, event center or similar use.
   F.   "Timely manner" means:
      1.   Within one hour after the initiation of contact with the owner or
owner’s representative for a complaint or incident that has been reported to
the police department or for which police officers have been dispatched or are
on the scene: and
      2.   Within 24 hours after the initiation of contact with the owner or
owner’s representative for a complaint or incident for which the police have
not been dispatched at the time that such contact is initiated.
   G.   "Verified violation" means a finding of guilt or civil responsibility
for violating any state law or local ordinance relating to a purpose prescribed
in Sections 9-500.39(B) or 9-500.39(K), Arizona Revised Statutes, that has been
finally adjudicated.
Section 6-8-3 Licensing.
   A.   Short-term rental license required; invalid license; penalties.
      1.   Effective March 10, 2023, no person shall operate a short-term
rental or vacation rental in the town without first having obtained a current
short-term rental license from the town and paying the applicable fees. A
separate current short-term rental license is required for each house or
dwelling unit where a short-term rental or vacation rental is operated.
      2.   No person shall operate a short-term rental or vacation rental in
the town with an expired, suspended or revoked short-term rental license.
      3.   Representations or advertisements including online listings that
reference the property, house or dwelling unit location within the town is
prima facie evidence that a short-term rental or vacation rental is operating
in the town.
      4.   A violation of this section is a civil offense and shall be punished
by a fine of not less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation. The
court shall not suspend anv part of anv fine required by this section.
   B.   License fees.
      1.   Every application, including any renewal application, for a short-
term rental license under this article shall be accompanied bv a non-refundable
two hundred fifty-dollar ($250.00) license fee and penalties incurred pursuant
to this section.
      2.   If the applicant failed to apply for a short-term rental license
upon receiving written notice from the town of the requirement to do so, the
applicant shall pay an additional one thousand dollar ($1,000.00) penalty for
every thirty (30) day period the applicant failed to apply. Any penalty shall
be non-refundable. For purposes of this section, written notice includes, but
is not limited, to a notice sent by electronic means, US mail or hand delivered
to the physical location of the short-term rental or vacation rental or the
address on file with the Maricopa County Assessors Office for the property.
Written notice is deemed served on the date it is sent bv electronic means,
hand delivered or, if mailed, on the date it is deposited in the United States
mail.
      3.   The amount of any license fee and any penalty imposed by the
provisions of this article shall be deemed a debt to the town. An action may be
commenced in the name of the town in any court of competent jurisdiction for
the amount of any delinquent license fee and penalties.
   C.   Term of license; transfer.
      1.   A short-term rental license issued under this article shall be valid
for a period of one (1) year from the date of issuance unless suspended or
revoked.
      2.   No license shall be transferable either as to location or as to
person.
   D.   Application for license. An applicant for a short-term rental license,
including for a renewal application, shall file an application on a form
prescribed by the town administrator or designee and contain the following
information:
      1.   The physical address of the house or dwelling unit to be used as a
short-term rental or vacation rental.
      2.   The name and contact information (address, telephone number, and
email) of the owner of the short-term rental or vacation rental.
      3.   The name and contact information (address, telephone number, and
email address) of the owner, or of the owner’s designee who is responsible for
responding to complaints, in person, by telephone, or by email as specified
herein. An individual pursuant to this subsection must be a real person and
cannot be a fictitious person. The owner shall certify that the owner’s
designee is authorized to act upon the owner’s behalf.
      4.   The name, address, email and twenty-four (24) hour telephone number
of the individual who will serve as the emergency point of contact for the
short-term rental or vacation rental. An individual pursuant to this subsection
must be a real person and cannot be a fictitious person.
      5.   Agreement by the owner and each designee to comply with all
applicable laws, regulations, and ordinances.
      6.   The owner and each owner’s designee shall attest that they are not
registered sex offenders, have not been convicted of any felony act that
resulted in death or serious physical injury, and have not been convicted of
any felony use of a deadly weapon within the past five years.
      7.   Proof of a valid transaction privilege tax license.
      8.   Proof that the short-term rental has been registered with the
Maricopa County Assessor’s Office in accordance with Section 33-1902, Arizona
Revised Statutes, where applicable.
      9.   If the applicant is an individual, proof of lawful presence in the
United States in accordance with Sections 1-502 and 41-1080, Arizona Revised
Statutes unless exempted by Section 41-1080(B), Arizona Revised Statutes.
   E.   License issuance; denial.
      1.   The town shall issue a short-term rental license within seven (7)
business davs after receipt of a complete application unless grounds for denial
exist as follows:
         a.   Failure to provide the information required by this article;
         b.   Failure to pay the required license fee(s), including any
penalties;
         c.   At the time of application, the owner has a revoked or suspended
license for the same short-term rental or vacation rental;
         d.   The applicant has provided false information;
         e.   The owner or designee of the owner: (i) is a registered sex
offender; (ii) has been convicted of any felony act that resulted in death or
serious physical injury; (iii) or has been convicted of any felony use of a
deadly weapon within five (5) years of submitting the application; and
         f.   Any grounds for revocation or suspension of a short-term rental
license exist for the specific license application.
      2.   The town administrator or designee shall give notice of any denial
of an application, and the right of appeal from the denial, as provided for in
this article.
   F.   License revocation. The town administrator or designee shall initiate
revocation proceedings if any grounds for denial exist for a short-term rental
license that already has been issued.
   G.   Reapplication after denial or revocation. No person who has had a
short-term rental license denied or revoked pursuant to this article may apply
for another short-term rental license for one (1) year at that same property
after the decision affecting the applicant's license has become final. At the
time of sustaining a denial, the town council may reduce in whole or in part
the one (1) year period described above in this section, if the denial was
based on a good faith failure to provide complete information pursuant to
Section
6-8-3, E.1.a. or failure to pay the required license fee(s) and any penalties
provided that the applicant has paid all required fees and penalties by the
time of the denial hearing.
   H.   License suspension; term of suspension.
      1.   The town administrator or designee shall initiate suspension
proceedings against a short-term rental license for any of the following:
         a.   Three (3) verified violations within a twelve (12) month period,
not including any such violation based on an aesthetic, solid waste disposal or
vehicle parking violation that is not also a serious threat to public health
and safety.
         b.   One (1) verified violation that results in or constitutes any of
the following:
            a.   A felony offense committed at or in the vicinity of a short-
term rental or vacation rental by the owner of the short-term rental or by the
owner’s designee;
            b.   A serious physical injury or wrongful death at or related to a
short-term rental or vacation rental resulting from the knowing, intentional or
reckless conduct of the owner of the short-term rental or vacation rental or
the owner’s designee:
            c.   An owner of the short-term rental or vacation rental or the
owner's designee knowingly or intentionally housing a sex offender, allowing
offenses related to adult-oriented businesses, sexual offenses, or
prostitution, or operating or maintaining a sober living home; or
            d.   An owner of the short-term rental or vacation rental or the
owner’s designee knowingly or intentionally allowing the use of a short-term
rental for a special event that would otherwise require a permit or license
pursuant to this code or a state law or rule or for a retail, restaurant,
banquet space or other similar use.
      2.   The town administrator or designee shall give notice of any
suspension, and the right of appeal from the suspension, as provided for in
this article.
      3.   Any final suspension shall be for a period of one (1) year except
that town council may reduce the suspension period to a period of six (6)
months upon a finding that the owner of the short-term rental or vacation
rental has taken substantial and significant steps to prevent the reoccurrence
of the actions that led to the suspension.
   I.   Judicial relief for certain grounds of suspension.
      1.   Notwithstanding Section
6-8-3, subsection H herein, any attempted or completed felony act, arising from
the occupancy or use of a short-term rental or vacation rental, that results in
a death, or actual or attempted serious physical injury, shall be grounds for
judicial relief in the form of a suspension of the property's use as a short-
term rental or vacation rental for a period that shall not exceed twelve (12)
months.
      2.   The town attorney may initiate proceedings in the Carefree-Cave
Creek Consolidated Court or other court of competent jurisdiction to enforce
this section.
   J.   Information updates. All applicants and persons holding licenses issued
pursuant to this article shall give written notice to the town administrator or
designee of any material changes in information submitted in connection with an
application or application for renewal of a license. Any information required
for an application pursuant to Section
6-8-3, subsection D is deemed to be material for purposes of this section. This
information shall be provided to the town administrator or designee by the
licensee or the affected person, as applicable, within ten (10) business days
of any such chance.
   K.   Appeals.
      1.   Any person aggrieved by any decision with respect to the denial of
or a refusal to issue a short-term rental license, the revocation of a short-
term rental license, the suspension of a short-term rental license or a
verified violation penalty imposed pursuant to Section
6-8-4, subsection H, shall be entitled to the review and appeal procedures
provided in Chapter 8, Section
8-1-8.
      2.   This section is not applicable for judicial actions brought pursuant
to Section
6-8-3, subsection K herein or penalties including fines imposed by a court.
   L.   Town use of license information. Unless otherwise provided for by law,
the town may use any information obtained from licensing applications,
including contact information pursuant to this article, for any lawful purpose
including, but not limited, to communicating or providing information regarding
compliance with laws, public health and safety regulations, general town
updates and reminders to keep required information updated with the town.
   M.   Reserved.
Section 6-8-4 Prohibitions and Operational Requirements.
   A.   Compliance with laws.
      1.   A short-term rental or vacation rental must at all times comply with
all federal, state, and local laws, rules and regulations including but not
limited to public health, safety, sanitation, solid waste, hazardous waste, tax
privilege licensing, residential rental property recording, traffic control,
pollution control, noise, property maintenance, and nuisance abatement.
      2.   No person including an owner or operator shall operate a short-term
rental or vacation rental in violation of this section.
   B.   Non-residential usage by short-term rentals or vacation rentals
prohibited.
      1.   No short-term rental or vacation rental may be used for any non-
residential use or purpose including but not limited to any of the following:
         a.   Any commercial, industrial, manufacturing, or other non-
residential purpose; or
         b.   Operating a retail business, restaurant, event center, banquet
space or similar use; or
         c.   Housing sex offenders; or
         d.   Operating or maintaining a structured sober living home; or
         e.   Selling liquor, controlled substances or pornography; or
         f.   Operating any adult-oriented business including nude and topless
dancing.
      2.   The owner of a vacation rental or short-term rental or the owner’s
designee shall not knowingly or intentionally allow the use of a vacation
rental or short-term rental for a special event that would otherwise require a
permit or license pursuant to this code or a state law or rule.
      3.   No person including, but not limited to, an owner, owner’s designee,
tenant, guest, business, vendor or operator shall operate a short-term rental
or vacation rental in violation of this section.
      4.   Representations or advertisements including online listings that
advertise one of the prohibited activities pursuant to this section that
reference a short-term rental or vacation rental property, house or dwelling
unit location within the town is prima facie evidence that a short-term rental
or vacation rental is operating in the violation of this section.
   C.   Failure to respond; penalties.
      1.   In the event of an emergency, any person designated as an emergency
contact pursuant to Section
6-8-3, subsection D herein upon the request of public safety personnel shall
respond in-person within one (1) hour to the physical location of the short-
term rental or vacation rental for which they are a designated emergency
contact.
      2.   For the purpose of this section, "in the event of an emergency"
means any time police, fire or other public safety personnel respond to a
short-term rental or vacation rental for a call for service including
responding to a nuisance party or unlawful gathering.
      3.   An owner or owner’s designee shall (a) affirmatively respond to
complaints in person, over the phone, or by email, and (b) abate the incident
from which the complaint arose in a timely manner regardless of when the owner
receives notice of the complaint. If such a response is due within one (1) hour
under this article’s definition of “timely manner”, the response is deemed
necessary to protect the peace, health, safety, and welfare of the general
public, and the owner or owner’s designee shall so respond in person. If the
response is due within twenty-four (24) hours, the owner or owner’s designee
shall respond either in person, bv telephone, or bv email. Failure to respond
to a complaint as provided herein is a violation of this article, and the owner
shall be deemed responsible for such violation regardless of whether an owner’s
designee has been assigned.
      4.   It shall be a civil offense for any person designated as an
emergency contact upon request by public safety personnel pursuant to
subsection A. of this section to either fail to respond to the physical
location of the short-term rental or vacation rental for which they are a
designated emergency contact or fail to arrive within one (1) hour to the
physical location of the short-term rental or vacation rental for which they
are a designated emergency contact. Failure to respond shall be punished by a
minimum fine of five hundred ($500.00) dollars and failure to arrive within one
(1) hour shall be punished bv a minimum fine of two hundred fifty ($250.00)
dollars.
      5.   It shall be a civil offense for the owner of a short-term rental or
vacation rental to intentionally, knowingly or recklessly have the owner's
emergency contact fail to comply with the requirements of subsection A. A
violation of this subsection shall be punished a minimum fine of five hundred
($500.00) dollars. Evidence such as failure of an owner to keep contact
information current may be considered when determining whether the owner acted
intentionally, knowingly or recklessly.
   D.   Insurance required; failure to maintain; penalty.
      1.   Unless provided by an online lodging market place that provides
primary liability insurance coverage of at least five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000.00) for the short-term or vacation rental, every owner of a vacation
rental or short-term rental shall maintain liability insurance to cover each
vacation rental or short-term rental in the aggregate of a least five hundred
thousand dollars ($500,000.00).
      2.   Within thirty (30) days of obtaining a vacation rental license
issued pursuant to this article, the owner or owner's designee shall provide
evidence to the town of liability insurance to cover the short-term or vacation
rental in the aggregate of at least five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00)
or evidence that each vacation rental or short rental transaction will be
provided through an online lodging market place that provides equal or greater
primary liability insurance coverage for the vacation rental or short-term
rental.
      3.   The owner or owner’s designee of vacation rental or short-term
rental shall provide proof of compliance with subsection A above upon demand by
the town.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a short-term
rental or vacation rental to fail to comply with the insurance requirements as
specified herein.
      5.   A violation of this section is a civil offense and shall be punished
by a minimum fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00). Upon a showing that the
owner or operator has obtained the required insurance, the court may reduce the
fine pursuant to this section to one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   E.   Advertising license number required; penalty.
      1.   It shall be unlawful for the owner, operator or owner’s designee of
a short-term rental or vacation rental to fail to display or list a town short-
term rental license number on each advertisement for a short-term rental or
vacation rental located within the town.
      2.   In addition to the transaction privilege tax license number that
must be included in the short-term rental’s listing, the owner shall complete
and prominently display the following statement in the short-term rental’s
online lodging marketplace or other listing:
         a.   All dwelling units, including vacation rentals and short-term
rentals shall have a maximum single family size of six (6) adults eighteen (18)
years of age and older (and their related dependent children under the age of
eighteen (18) years).
         b.   Non-residential uses, including retail restaurant, banquet space,
event center, or other similar use is prohibited.
      3.   A violation of this section is a civil offense and shall be punished
bv a minimum fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00). Upon a showing that the
owner, operator or owner’s designee has come into compliance with this section,
the court may reduce the fine pursuant to this section to one hundred dollars
($100.00).
   F.   Additional health and public safety regulations.
      1.   The health and public safety regulations in this section are for the
primary purpose of protecting the health and safety of the public as short-term
rentals and vacation rentals create unique public health and safety issues.
      2.   No person owning or operating a short-term rental or vacation rental
shall: leave trash or garbage within public view, except in proper collection
containers for the purpose of collection in accordance with the residential
collection schedule outlined in Article 5-5, Section
5-5-1 of the Carefree Town Code.
      3.   Any person owning or operating a short-term rental or vacation
rental shall ensure that every short-term rental or vacation rental has working
smoke alarms and carbon monoxide (CO) alarms, which may require the
installation and maintenance of several detection units and maintained annually
as required under National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 72. The owner or
owner’s designee shall keep and make available for inspection upon request by
the fire marshal a record of all inspections and maintenance activities.
      4.   Fire extinguisher. A portable, multi-purpose fire extinguisher shall
be installed, inspected, and maintained as reguired under NFPA 10 in any
kitchen area and on each floor of a short-term or vacation rental and within
twenty (20) feet of every outdoor fire feature, fire pit, patio heater,
fireplace, or other areas with fire. The extinguisher(s) shall be installed on
the wall in an open common area or in an enclosed space with appropriate
markings visibly showing the location of the fire extinguisher.
      5.   Fire safety and emergency evacuation map. The owner shall provide
and prominently display a map of the short-term rental showing the following
information; safe routes of egress in the event of a fire or other emergency;
the location of telephone(s) required under this article; the location of fire
detection and suppression equipment; and any additional information relevant to
such emergency preparedness measures. Such maps shall include the full property
address, emergency information (911), and owner contact information.
      6.   Local phone service. At least one working landline, or another
similar fixed telephone that operates through cable or a “voice over internet”
system, with the ability to call 911 and receive inbound calls shall be
available on every floor of the short-term or vacation rental.
      7.   The owner or owner’s designee of a short-term rental or vacation
rental shall have the property cleaned between stays. It shall be a defense to
any prosecution of this subsection that the owner or owner’s designee followed
the cleaning standards outlined in the Maricopa County Environmental Health
Code, Chapter 10, Section 2 relating to transient dwelling establishments.
      8.   The owner or owner’s designee of a short-term rental or vacation
rental shall ensure that the property receives regular (at least bi-monthly)
pest control treatments to keep the interior of all buildings and structures
and exterior area of the premises free from infestation of insects, rodents,
and other noxious pests where such infestation threatens the health, safety, or
welfare of a person or persons.
      9.   The owner of a short-term or vacation rental that includes a
swimming pool, spa or hot tub that is accessible to the renters shall comply
with the barrier requirements outlined in Carefree Town Code Chapter 5, Article
5-3, Private Pools Barrier Code. Owners of short-term or vacation rentals shall
have six (6) months from the effective date of this article to come into
compliance with this subsection.
      10.   The following notice must be completed in 14-point or larger bold
font, on a laminated or otherwise similarly shielded paper, and prominently
displayed on the inside of the front door and the primary door to the backyard
or a conspicuous location near each such door. The notice shall include
information regarding the location of any fire or life safety equipment such as
fire extinguishers and the Town of Carefree nuisance waste disposal
regulations.
      "USE OF THIS PROPERTY FOR ANY OF THE FOLLOWING PURPOSES IS PROHIBITED;
VIOLATORS MAY BE SUBJECT TO SUBSTANTIAL PENALTIES:
         i.   Any commercial, industrial, manufacturing, or other non-
residential purpose; or
         ii.   Operating a retail business, restaurant, event center, banquet
space or similar use;
         iii.   Housing sex offenders; or
         iv.   Operating or maintaining a structured sober living home; or
         v.   Selling liquor, controlled substances or pornography; or
         vi.   Operating any adult-oriented business, including nude and
topless dancing; or
         vii.   Any uses prohibited under Section 9-500.39, Arizona Revised
Statutes, or federal, state or local law; or
         viii.   Any use that constitutes a substantial disturbance of the
quiet enjoyment and peace, health, safety or general welfare of private or
public property through a nuisance party or unlawful gathering, including, but
not limited to, excessive noise or traffic, obstruction of public streets by
crowds or vehicles, public drunkenness, the service of alcohol to minors,
fights, disturbances of the peace, litter, spirituous liquor served to, or in
the possession of, or consumed by, any minor, or where illegal drugs are in the
possession of, or consumed by, any person.
         ix.   The occupancy of this premises is limited to a single family of
one (1) to six (6) adults and, if any, their related dependent children as
defined in Article II of the Carefree Zoning Ordinance,
         x.   None of the following may occur where such acts may reasonably be
viewed by the public whether at ground level or from a reasonable vantage point
of a nearby property, such as a deck or balcony:
            •   Urination or defecation;
            •   Nudity; or
            •   Sexual acts.
      UNLESS THE TOWN EXPRESSLY PERMITS SUCH A USE IN WRITING, USE OF THIS
PROPERTY FOR ANY OF THE FOLLOWING PURPOSES IS PROHIBITED; VIOLATORS MAY BE
SUBJECT TO SUBSTANTIAL PENTALTIES:
         Use for any nonresidential use, including:
         i.   For a special event that would otherwise require a permit or
license pursuant to town ordinance, or a state law or rule; or
         ii.   Operating a retail business, restaurant, event center, banquet
space, or similar use.
      Your local contact person’s name is                       and can be
reached by phone 24 hours a day, seven days a week, at
                                      .
   G.   Sex offender background checks.
      1.   Within twenty-four (24) hours of every booking, the owner or owner’s
designee shall perform a background check on every guest or renter of a short-
term rental or vacation rental to ensure that there are no sex offenders at the
short-term rental or vacation rental. However, this requirement may be
satisfied by the owner providing evidence that the online lodging marketplace
on which the short-term or vacation rental is booked conducted a sex offender
background check of every guest.
      2.   An owner or owner’s designee shall retain a printout (either in hard
copy or electronic form) of the background check on each guest or renter for
twelve (12) months after the booking date. Records of each background check
shall be made available for inspection by the town upon demand during normal
business hours.
      3.   It shall be a civil offense for owners or owners’ designees who fail
to comply with the requirements of this section and they shall be punished by a
mandatory minimum fine of one thousand dollars ($1.000.00). The court shall not
suspend any part of any fine required bv this section.
      4.   It shall be a civil offense for a person to intentionally or
knowingly book a short-term or vacation rental on behalf of a sex offender when
the person booking the reservation will not be staying at the vacation rental
or short-term rental. A violation of this subsection shall be punished bv a
mandatory minimum fine of one thousand dollars ($1.000.00). The court shall not
suspend any part of any fine required by this section.
      5.   The requirements of this section are satisfied and/or waived if the
online lodging marketplace on which the short-term rental or vacation rental is
advertised performs the background check.
      6.   For the purposes of this section, booking means the act of securing
a reservation for the use of a short-term or vacation rental.
   H.   Verified violation penalties.
      1.   In addition to any other penalty pursuant to this code, and
notwithstanding any other law, the following civil penalties shall be imposed
by the town upon the owner of a short-term rental or vacation rental related to
the same short-term rental property within the same twelve (12)-month period:
         a.   Up to five hundred dollars ($500.00) or up to an amount equal to
one (1) night’s rent for the short-term rental as advertised, whichever is
greater, for a first verified violation.
         b.   Up to one thousand dollars ($1,000) or up to an amount equal to
two (2) nights’ rent for the short-term rental as advertised, whichever is
greater, for the second verified violation.
         c.   Up to three thousand five hundred dollars, ($3,500.00) or up to
an amount equal to three nights’ rent for the short-term rental as advertised,
whichever is greater, for a third verified violation and any subsequent
violation.
      2.   If multiple violations arise out of the same response to an incident
at a short-term rental or vacation rental, those violations are considered one
(1) violation for the purpose of assessing the civil penalties provided in this
section.
      3.   Unless an appeal is filed in a timely manner pursuant to Section 6-
8-3, subsection K, a civil penalty assessed pursuant to this section shall be
due within thirty (30) days of the initial notice sent to the owner by the
town. For purposes of this section, written notice includes but is not limited
to a notice sent by electronic means, US mail or hand delivered.
   I.   Reserved.
Section 6-8-5 Neighbor Notification.
   A.   Prior to offering a short-term rental or vacation rental for rent for
the first time, the owner or owner’s designee is required to notify all single-
family residential properties adjacent to, directly and diagonally across the
street from the property, or, in a multi-family residential building, all units
on the same building floor. After providing such notification, the owner or
owner’s designee shall attest compliance on a form prescribed by the town
administrator or designee and which contains the following information:
      1.   The short-term rental license number required by this article;
      2.   The address of each property notified;
      3.   How the notification was provided; and
      4.   The name and contact information of the person attesting to
compliance.
   B.   The notification required by subsection A. above is also required any
time the contact information for the short-term rental or vacation rental
changes. Notification pursuant to this subsection shall occur within fifteen
(15) business days.
   C.   The notice required bv this section shall be in writing and include the
following information. For purposes of this section, written notice includes
notice sent by electronic means, US mail or hand delivered:
      1.   The short-term rental license number issued pursuant to this
article;
      2.   The physical address of the short-term rental or vacation rental;
      3.   The name, address, and the twenty-four (24) hour telephone number of
the emergency point of contact; and
      4.   The name, address, and telephone number of the owner, or of the
owner’s designee who is responsible for responding to complaints.
   D.   Short-term rentals or vacation rentals that are lawfully operating
prior to the effective date of this section must comply with this section
within thirty (30) days of obtaining a vacation rental license required by this
article.
   E.   It shall be unlawful to operate a short-term rental or vacation rental
without complying with the notification requirements in this section.
   F.   A violation of this section is a civil offense and shall be punished by
a minimum fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00). Upon a showing that the owner
or owner’s designee has come into compliance with this section, the court may
reduce the fine pursuant to this section to one hundred dollars($100.00).
CHAPTER 7 TRAFFIC; PARKING
Article 7-1   GENERAL PROVISIONS *
   
7-1-1   Streets Regulated
   
7-1-2   Duty of Marshal
   
7-1-3   Investigation of Accidents
   
7-1-4   Records of Traffic Accidents
   
7-1-5   Directing Traffic
 
Notes
* *Ordinance 85-18
Section 7-1-1 Streets Regulated
The provisions of this article and Articles
7-2 and
7-3 shall apply to all traffic and parking on streets of the town, which shall
be defined to include all streets, roads, drives, passes, paths, ways, parking
lots and other rights-of-way, within the town's corporate limits, which are
open to, and used by, the general public for vehicular traffic, whether such
streets are on private property or along roadways dedicated for public use. The
shoulders on either side of any roadway shall fall within the definition of
street as used herein. All streets of the town are hereby declared to be
highways for purposes of the application of the Uniform Act Regulating Traffic
on Highways of the State of Arizona, A.R.S. 28-601 et seq.
Section 7-1-2 Duty of Marshal
It shall be the duty of the town marshal to provide within the town for the
enforcement of the street regulations of the town and the Arizona laws
regarding traffic and vehicles, to issue citations or make arrests for
violations thereof, to investigate accidents, to recommend ways to improve
traffic conditions and to perform all duties specifically provided herein.
Section 7-1-3 Investigation of Accidents
The town marshal shall investigate traffic accidents resulting in bodily
injury, death or property damage of more than five hundred dollars and shall
serve in the prosecution of persons charged with violations of the law.
Section 7-1-4 Records of Traffic Accidents
The town marshal shall maintain records of all accidents within the town for
the previous three years wherein personal injuries required medical services or
property damage was in excess of five hundred dollars.
Section 7-1-5 Directing Traffic
   A.   The town marshal and his deputies, when they deem necessary, are
authorized to direct all traffic by signal, hand or voice.
   B.   Persons associated with fire departments, when at the scene of a fire,
may assist and direct traffic where deemed necessary.
Article 7-2   TRAFFIC CONTROL
   
7-2-1   Speed Limits
   
7-2-2   Through Streets
   
7-2-3   One-Way Street
   
7-2-4   Four-Way Stops
   
7-2-5   Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices
   
7-2-6   Parades and Processions
   
7-2-7   Commercial Trucks and Truck Routes
   
7-2-8   Vacant Lots
Section 7-2-1 Speed Limits  *
It is hereby determined, upon the basis of an engineering and traffic
investigation, that the speed limit permitted by state law on streets
hereinafter referred to in this section is greater than or less than is
reasonable under existing conditions; and it is hereby declared that the
maximum speed limit shall be as hereinafter provided on those streets or parts
of streets hereinafter designated when speed signs are erected giving notice of
such maximum speed limits:
   A.   On Cave Creek Road from the town limits north to Stagecoach Pass,
except as posted, the maximum speed limit shall be forty-five miles per hour.
   B.   On Cave Creek Road from Scopa Trail to Bloody Basin Drive the maximum
speed limit shall be thirty miles per hour and from Bloody Basin Drive to Pima
Road, except at stop intersections and as posted, the maximum speed limit shall
be thirty-five miles per hour.
   C.   On Tom Darlington Drive from Cave Creek Road to Bloody Basin the
maximum speed limit shall be thirty miles per hour and on Tom Darlington from
Bloody Basin to its southern end, except as posted, the maximum speed shall be
thirty-five miles per hour.
   D.   Along Easy Street, Sundial Circle and the rights-of-way encircled
thereby, and also along Wampum Way and Lucky, Ho, Hum and Ho Hum Roads between
Tom Darlington Drive and Cave Creek Road, the maximum speed limit shall be
fifteen miles per hour.
   E.   Along all other streets of the town, the maximum speed limit shall be
twenty-five miles per hour.
   F.   On Cave Creek Road from Pima Road easterly to 4/10 of a mile west of
the city limits of Scottsdale, the maximum speed limit shall be thirty-five
miles per hour.
   G.   On Mule Train Road from Rambling Road to Carefree Drive, except as
posted, the maximum speed limit shall be twenty miles per hour.
 
Notes
* *Ordinances 88-01, 93-05, 99-01, 02-05, 03-07, and 2011-06.
Section 7-2-2 Through Streets 1
The following streets in town are designated as through streets. Stop signs
shall be installed at each street intersecting a through street, except where
yield right-of -way signs are provided instead:
   A.   Cave Creek Road from the town limits north to Stagecoach Pass and from
Scopa Trail to its easterly end, except for the stop intersections at Tom
Darlington Drive and Pima Road.
   B.   Tom Darlington Drive from its northern end to its southern end.
   C.   Pima Road from its northern end to its southern end, except at its stop
intersection at Cave Creek Road.
   D.   Carefree Drive from Pima Road to Cave Creek Road, except at its stop
intersection at Mule Train Road.
   E.   Sidewinder Road from Stagecoach Pass to Carefree Drive.
   F.   Stagecoach Pass from Tom Darlington to its easterly terminus, except at
its stop intersection at Mule Train Road.
   G.   Mule Train Road from Stagecoach Pass to Carefree Drive, except at its
stop intersection at Cave Creek Road.
   H.   Long Rifle Road from Lazy Lane to Cave Creek Road, except for its stop
intersection at Sidewinder Road.
   I.   Tranquil Trail from Cave Creek Road to Rising Sun Road, except for its
stop intersection at Carefree Drive.
   J.   Nonchalant Avenue from Easy Street to Lazy Lane, except for its stop
intersection at Elbow Bend.
   K.   Easy Street from Sundial Circle to Sundial Circle, except for its stop
intersection at Hum Street and Wampum Way.
   L.   Primrose Path from Cave Creek Road to Long Rifle Road.
   M.   Double Eagle Drive, except at its stop intersection at Dog Leg.
   N.   Old Paint Trail except at its stop intersection (east and west) at
Ridgeway Drive.
   O.   Rising Sun Road from Tranquil Trail to Stevens Road.
   P.   Auto Plane Drive except for its stop intersection at Cave Creek Road.
   Q.   Sky Ranch Airport Terminal Entrance except for its stop intersection at
Cave Creek Road.
   R.   Sky Ranch at Carefree residential private driveway except for its stop
intersection at Cave Creek Road.
   S.   Serene Street except for a stop intersection at Mule Train Road.
   T.   Never Mind Trail except for a stop intersection at Carefree Drive.
   U.   58th Street except for its stop intersection at Leisure Lane at all
four approaches.
   V.   58th Street except for its stop intersection at Sentinel Rock Road
eastbound.
   W.   61st Street except for its stop intersection (east and west) at Restin
Road.
   X.   K.T. Palmer Sundial Circle from Easy Street to Carefree Drive.
 
Notes
1 *Ordinance 87-03, 96-11, 96-12, 97-11, 98-11, 99-02, 00-07, 01-02, 06-01,
  2010-04
Section 7-2-3 One-Way Street 1
 
Notes
1 *Repealed by Ordinance 2010-04
Section 7-2-4 Four-Way Stops and Three-Way Stops **
The following intersections are designated as 4-way stops:
   A.   Tom Darlington Drive and Cave Creek Road.
   B.   Easy Street and Wampum Way.
   C.   Easy Street and Ho Hum Road.
   D.   Mule Train Road and Stage Coach Pass.
   E.   Cave Creek Road and Pima Road.
   F.   Sidewinder and Stagecoach Pass.
   G.   Mule Train Road and Cave Creek Road.
   H.   Tranquil Trail and Rising Sun Road.
   I.   Rising Sun Road and Cow Track Drive as a three-way stop.
   J.   Carefree Drive and Tranquil Trail.
   K.   Twilight Trail and Stardust Lane.
   L.   Bloody Basin Road and Sidewinder Road.
   M.   Paint Pony Drive and Sombrero Road as a three-way stop.
 
Notes
** **Ordinances 85-18, 90-08, 94-13, 96-11, 97-09, 98-13, 99-10, 02-11, 05-02
Section 7-2-5 Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices  *
That certain document entitled "Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for
Streets and Highways," 1978 Edition, published by the National Advisory
Committee on Traffic Control, is hereby adopted by the Town of Carefree and
made a part of this chapter as though said document were set forth in full
herein; and three copies thereof shall be kept on file in the office of the
town clerk and kept available for public use and inspection during office
hours.
 
Notes
* *Ordinance 85-10
Section 7-2-6 Parades and Processions 1
   A.   No parade or procession, except a funeral, shall be held in town
without first obtaining a parade permit ten days in advance from the town
marshal. The application for a permit shall state the time, date, place of
formation, destination, line of march, purpose and any other pertinent
information requested.
   B.   Funeral processions shall be identified by vehicles traveling with
headlights illuminated and the vehicles will travel as near to the right edge
of the street as practical and in close proximity to each other.
   C.   Operators of other vehicles shall not drive or cut into any funeral
procession.
 
Notes
1 **Ordinance 85-18
Section 7-2-7 Commercial Trucks and Truck Routes 1
   A.   No person shall operate a commercial vehicle that exceeds seven
thousand pounds empty weight, at any time upon a street in Carefree except
along designated truck routes.
   B.   In the event a pickup or delivery point within the town is not located
on a designated truck route, the operator of the commercial vehicle may leave
the designated truck route by the nearest route to make deliveries or pickups
after which the commercial vehicle must return immediately to the nearest
designated truck route.
   C.   The following streets are designated truck routes:
      1.   Tom Darlington Drive from the Scottsdale city limits north to Cave
Creek Road.
      2.   Cave Creek Road from the town limits of Cave Creek (just west of Tom
Darlington Drive) east to the Scottsdale city limits.
      3.   Pima Road between Cave Creek Road and Stagecoach Pass.
      4.   Cave Creek Road from Carefree Highway north to the town limits of
Cave Creek (just north of Sentinel Rock Road).
   D.   The following vehicles are exempt from the meaning of "commercial
vehicle":
      1.   Passenger buses, including school buses.
      2.   Vehicles used in the construction, installation, maintenance or
repair of public utilities and streets located within the town.
      3.   Vehicles used for residential or business refuse collection located
within the town.
      4.   Fire engines and emergency vehicles.
      5.   Vehicles of other municipalities, the state, or the county and their
political subdivisions as authorized by the town marshal.
 
Notes
1 ***Ordinance 95-06
Section 7-2-8 Vacant Lots 1
   A.   No person shall operate a vehicle on or across or park on any portion
of an unpaved or unstabilized vacant lot or area unless the property is dust-
proofed pursuant to the Town Code or the Town Zoning Ordinance or the site has
been issued a Maricopa County permit for the control of dust from dust
generating operations.
   B.   No person shall operate any vehicle, including an off-highway vehicle,
an all-terrain vehicle, or an off-road recreational motor vehicle, on an
unpaved surface that is not a public or private road, street or lawful easement
and that is closed by (1) the landowner by rule or regulation of a federal
agency, this state, a county or municipality or (2) proper posting if the land
is private land.
   C.   This section does not apply to the operation of vehicles used in the
normal course of business or the normal course of government operations and/or
during a period of emergency or if the operation is directed by a peace officer
or other public authority.
   D.   The provisions of this Section 7 do not apply to any site that has a
permit issued by a control officer as defined in Arizona Revised Statutes, as
amended.
 
Notes
1 *Ordinance 2015-01
Article 7-3   PARKING  *
   A.   No parking shall be permitted on any portion of Tom Darlington Drive or
Cave Creek Road, except on the extreme outer sides for emergency purposes only.
Special exceptions may be allowed by the town marshal on such terms as he may
determine for temporary periods in connection with construction projects,
parades or other special occasions.
   B.   Where parking is allowed, all vehicles shall be parked at the extreme
right side of the road, facing in the direction of the flow of traffic, unless
designated to park otherwise.
   C.   Parking at marked spaces shall be wholly within the indicated lines.
   D.   No parking shall be permitted on any public street in town from 12:00
midnight to 5:00 a.m.
   E.   No parking shall be permitted on or beside any street of the town
regulated by Section 7-1-1 at any place where, or time or period during which,
such parking is prohibited by a No Parking sign erected by the town marshal, in
his discretion, to protect the health, safety and welfare of the inhabitants
of, and visitors to, the town.
 
Notes
* *Ordinance 87-06
Article 7-4   MOTORIZED SKATEBOARDS, SKATEBOARDS,
MOTORIZED GOPED SCOOTERS, AND BICYCLES **
   
7-4-1   Definition
   
7-4-2   Operation of Motorized Skateboard or Motorized Goped Scooter on Public
Sidewalk, Public Parking Lot, or Public Area
   
7-4-3   Operation of Skateboard, Motorized Goped Scooter and/or Bicycle on
Public Sidewalk, Public Parking Lot, or Public Area
   
7-4-4   Responsibilities of Parent, Guardian or Custodian
 
Notes
** **Ordinance 97-04 and amended by Ordinance 2007-08 and 2016-05
    
Section 7-4-1 Definition
For the purpose of this article, the term "motorized skateboard" or "motorized
goped scooter" means a self-propelled device which has a motor, a surface on
which a person may ride, and at least two wheels in contact with the ground
which is not otherwise defined in Title 28 of the Arizona Revised Statutes.
For the purpose of this article, the term "bicycle" includes any vehicle
propelled by human power which is not otherwise defined in Title 28 of the
Arizona Revised Statutes.
Section 7-4-2 Operation of Motorized Skateboard or Motorized Goped Scooter on
Public Sidewalk, Public Parking Lot, or Public Area
No person shall operate a motorized skateboard or motorized goped scooter on
any public sidewalk, public parking lot, or public area within the town.
Section 7-4-3 Operation of Skateboard, Motorized Goped Scooter and/or Bicycle
on Public Sidewalk, Street, Public Parking Lot, or Public Area
No person shall operate a skateboard, motorized goped, scooter, skateboard, or
bicycle on any public sidewalk, public parking lot, or public area within the
town center Desert Gardens.
Section 7-4-4 Responsibilities of Parent, Guardian or Custodian
No parent, guardian or custodian of a child shall allow or permit any child to
operate a skateboard, motorized goped scooter, skateboard, or bicycle on any
public sidewalk, public parking lot, or public area within the town center
Desert Gardens.
No parent, guardian or custodian of a child shall allow or permit any child to
use a skateboard on any sidewalk, street, parking lot, or public area within
the town center bounded by Cave Creek Road on the east, Tom Darlington Road on
the west and Bloody Basin Road on the south.
Article 7-5   VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES  *
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with,
or who resists the enforcement of, any of the provisions of this chapter shall
upon admission or judicial determination thereof be responsible for a civil
offense and shall be subject to imposition of a civil sanction of up to seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
 
Notes
* *Ordinance 85-18 and 89-26 in part and amended by Ordinance 01-01 and 2016-05
CHAPTER 8 BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Article 8-1   SOLICITATION CODE *
   
8-1-1   License Required
   
8-1-2   Signs to be Observed
   
8-1-3   Application to Marshal
   
8-1-4   Charitable, Religious, Civic and Educational Organizations
   
8-1-5   Fees
   
8-1-6   Peddling Without License Prohibited
   
8-1-7   Revocation of License
   
8-1-8   Appeals
   
8-1-9   Violations and Penalties
 
Notes
* *Ordinances 86-01, 89-11, 89-26 in part and 93-02
Section 8-1-1 License Required
No person shall sell or offer for sale or solicit the purchase of, or gift of,
any goods, wares, merchandise or other articles of value, or offer any services
for hire or commission, either in any place in, upon or along any public or
private street or other public place, or by going from door-to-door, within the
town, unless such person be the holder of a license issued pursuant to the
provisions of this article or be a business invitee upon the premises.
Section 8-1-2 Signs to be Observed
No person while engaged in any business licensed by this article shall knock at
the door or ring the bell of any home, apartment, apartment building,
condominium unit or other dwelling in the town where there is displayed at the
entrance a notice which reads "No Peddlers or Solicitors Allowed", or which
otherwise clearly purports to prohibit peddlers, solicitors or vendors on the
premises, unless such person is or has been invited upon the premises by the
owner, lessee or occupant thereof.
Section 8-1-3 Application to Marshal
   A.   Any person desiring to sell or offer for sale or to solicit the
purchase of, or gift of, any goods, wares, merchandise, other articles of
value, or any services for hire or commission, either in any place in, upon or
along the streets or other public places, or by going from door-to-door, within
the town, shall make application to the town marshal or his authorized
representative for a license.
   B.   The application shall be sworn to by the applicant and shall give the
following information:
      1.   Name and description of the applicant.
      2.   Permanent and local addresses of the applicant.
      3.   A brief description of the business and the goods or services to be
sold.
      4.   If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with
credentials establishing the exact relationship.
      5.   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired,
which shall not be more than one hundred eighty consecutive days.
      6.   If a vehicle is to be used, a description of the vehicle together
with license plate number.
   C.   The application shall be filed not less than seven days before the
applicant intends to engage in any activity for which a license is required
under this article.
   D.   An applicant shall be issued a license not more than seven days after
the application is filed if the town marshal is satisfied as to:
      1.   The truth of all statements made in the application.
      2.   The fact that the solicitation will not obstruct traffic, distract
drivers on the town streets or interfere with public safety.
      3.   The fact that the applicant or his employer holds a current valid
transaction privilege permit from the town, if required.
   E.   If the town marshal or his authorized representative is satisfied with
the facts set forth in any application for a solicitation license, he shall
cause the license to be issued to the applicant upon such conditions as he may
impose in said license and upon payment of the fee hereinafter required.
Section 8-1-4 Charitable, Religious, Civic and Educational Organizations
Any recognized religious, educational, civic or charitable organization may
obtain a blanket permit to cover all of its members when the town marshal
determines that the standards set forth in subsection D of Section
8-1-3 have been satisfied.
Section 8-1-5 Fees
   A.   The fee for a license issued under this article shall be: $25.00 per
week of seven consecutive calendar days; $50.00 per period of more than seven,
but less than thirty-one consecutive calendar days; $100.00 per period of more
than thirty, but less than one hundred eighty consecutive calendar days. No
license shall be issued for more than one hundred eighty consecutive calendar
days.
   B.   No license fee shall be charged to any recognized religious,
educational, civic or charitable organizations or recognized emergency service
businesses.
Section 8-1-6 Possession and Display of License
   A.   Any person licensed pursuant to this article shall have the license on
his person at all times while engaging in the activity for which the license
has been issued. Such person shall exhibit the license, upon demand, to any
police officer, town official or occupant of any residence or business
establishment being solicited.
   B.   This section shall not apply to the individual members of any
recognized religious, educational, civic or charitable organization to which a
blanket license has been issued under Section
8-1-4.
Section 8-1-7 Revocation of License
Any license issued pursuant to this article may be revoked by the town marshal
at any time should any of the facts set forth in the application, or the
standards pursuant to which such license was granted, set forth in Section
8-1-3, become untrue or cease to exist. Notice of such revocation shall be
delivered to the licensee by the town marshal or a deputy sheriff as soon as
practicable.
Section 8-1-8 Appeals
Any person or organization denied a permit, or whose permit is revoked, or is
required to pay a fee for a permit shall have the right to appeal such denial,
revocation or demand for a fee to the council. Such appeal shall be filed with
the town clerk within ten days of such denial, revocation or demand.
Section 8-1-9 Violations and Penalties  *
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with,
or who resists the enforcement of, any of the provisions of this article shall
upon admission or judicial determination thereof be responsible for a civil
offense and shall be subject to imposition of a civil sanction of up to seven
hundred fifty dollars.
 
Notes
* *Modified by Ordinance 01-01
Article 8-2   ESTATE SALES/CARPORT SALES **
   
8-2-1   Permit Application; Issuance
   
8-2-2   Permit Fee
   
8-2-3   Number of Sales Allowed Per Year
   
8-2-4   Traffic Control
   
8-2-5   Signage
   
8-2-6   Violations and Penalties
 
Notes
** **Ordinance 97-08; modified by Ordinance 03-08 and Ordinance 2011-04
Section 8-2-1 Permit Application; Issuance
   A.   Any person desiring to hold an estate sale or carport sale shall make
application to the town marshal or his authorized representative for a permit.
   B.   The permit application shall be sworn to by the applicant and shall
give the following information:
      Name of applicant.
      1.   Permanent and local address of applicant.
      2.   Brief description of items to be sold.
      3.   Address where sale is to take place.
      4.   Dates the sale will take place.
      5.   Where signage will be placed.
   C.   The permit application shall be filed not less than fourteen days
before the applicant intends to engage in the sale.
   D.   If the sale is on property within a community that has a Homeowners
Association, the applicant shall hand deliver or mail a copy of the permit
application to the Homeowners Association at least three (3) days after the
permit application is filed with the Town.
   E.   The applicant shall be issued a permit not more than fourteen days
after the application is filed if the town marshal is satisfied to:
      1.   The truth of the statements made in the application.
      2.   The fact that traffic will be controlled in and around the sale
location to keep streets open to normal traffic.
   F.   If the town marshal or his authorized representative is satisfied with
the facts set forth in the permit to hold an estate or carport sale, he shall
cause the permit to be issued to the applicant upon such conditions as he may
impose on said permit and upon payment of the fee hereinafter required.
Section 8-2-2 Permit Fee
The fee for a permit issued under this article shall be $25 for a two day sale.
Section 8-2-3 Number of Sales Allowed Per Year
There shall be no more than two sales per property allowed per calendar year.
Section 8-2-4 Traffic Control
The property owner or sales representative shall be required to control traffic
in and around the sale location to keep streets open for normal traffic.
Section 8-2-5 Signage
Two signs per sale shall be posted on the days of the sale and will be removed
on the afternoon of the completion of the sale.
Section 8-2-6 Violations and Penalties
   A.   Violations shall consist of failure to apply for a permit or failure to
remove signs when the sale is completed or causing a traffic hazard.
   B.   Penalties shall consist of a $200 fine for any one or more violations
set above.
Article 8-3   ANNUAL BUSINESS LICENSE  *
   
8-3-1   License Requirements
   
8-3-2   License Procedures
   
8-3-3   Exemptions
   
8-3-4   Signage
   
8-3-5   Compliance and Violations
   
8-3-6   Revocation or Suspension of License
   
8-3-7   Appeals
 
Notes
* *Ordinance 2010-05
Section 8-3-1 License Requirements
   A.   No person shall engage in any business in the town without first
having:
      1.   Procured an annual business license from the town;
      2.   Paid the prescribed fees; and
      3.   Complied with the provisions of this article.
   B.   The annual business license shall be valid for a period not to exceed
one calendar year and will expire on June 30 of the year in which it is
obtained.
Section 8-3-2 License Procedures  **
   A.   Application verification. It shall be the duty of the zoning
administrator or designee upon receipt and verification of a properly completed
application for an annual business license, to  prepare and issue an annual
business license under this article. Prior to the issuance of an annual
business license, each applicant shall provide evidence to the town clerk or
designee that at a minimum, it has made application to the Arizona Department
of Revenue to include Carefree under their state sales tax identification
number (privilege tax).
   B.   License form. The annual business license shall include but shall not
necessarily be limited to the name of the person, corporation, partnership or
business organization for whom the annual business license is procured; the
amount charged; the state sales tax license number; the expiration date of the
annual business license; the location of the business; and the type of
business.
   C.   Fee schedule. The fee for the annual business license shall be $40, and
shall be paid by the applicant at the time the application is filed with the
town. The annual renewal fee in the amount of $40 for each annual business
license shall become due and payable by July 1 of each calendar year.
   D.   Number of licenses. If one business entity is operating multiple
businesses in one fixed location, only one annual business license shall be
required. A "fixed location" shall mean a building which has a physical address
assigned by the Town of Carefree. If multiple businesses are operated by
separate entities in one fixed location which sublease or have a contractual
agreement to operate at such fixed location, a separate annual business license
shall be required for each business. An annual business license shall be
obtained for each branch establishment or location of a business within the
town. Any business providing products and/or services within the town but based
outside of the Town of Carefree shall be required to obtain an annual business
license.
   E.   Placement of license. The annual business license shall be placed
within the business in a fixed, conspicuous location.
   F.   Transfer of license. No annual business license issued pursuant to this
article shall be transferable, provided that where an annual business license
is issued authorizing a person to transact and carry on a business at a fixed
location, the zoning administrator or designee may upon application authorize
the person to engage in business under the same annual business license at
another location to which the business is to be moved.
 
Notes
** **Amended by Ordinance 2014-02
Section 8-3-3 Exemptions
The following shall be exempt from all annual business license requirements:
   A.   Any federally exempt organization which has received determination of
exemption under 26 U.S.C. Section 501 (c) and rules and regulations of the
Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service.
   B.   The federal government, the State of Arizona, and any political
subdivision, department, or agency of any of the foregoing.
   C.   Any public education entity operated pursuant to any provisions of
Title 15, Arizona Revised Statutes.
   D.   Any service oriented home occupation.
   E.   Any temporary or transient business operating with a vendor's
certificate administered through a special event permit.
Section 8-3-4 Signage
No person shall install and/or modify any exterior sign which is associated
with their business and otherwise permitted by the town zoning ordinance
without first obtaining an annual business license pursuant to the provisions
of this article.
Section 8-3-5 Compliance and Violations
   A.   The code enforcement officer or designee shall have the authority to
enter (without charge) and inspect any business for compliance with the
provisions of this article.
   B.   Any business operating without an annual business license under the
provisions of this article shall be given a 30 calendar day notice for
corrective action. The 30 calendar day period for corrective action shall begin
to run from the date the written notice is served by the code enforcement
officer or designee upon the business.
   C.   If upon the expiration of the 30 calendar day period for corrective
action an annual business license is not obtained by the business owner, the
business shall immediately cease operations at such location until an annual
business license is obtained, the business owner is subject to the doubling of
all fees owed in the discretion of the zoning administrator, and a complaint
shall be filed with the town magistrate.
   D.   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply
with, or who resists the enforcement of, any of the provisions of this article
shall upon admission or judicial determination thereof be liable for a civil
offense and shall be subject to imposition of a civil sanction of up to $750.
Section 8-3-6 Revocation or Suspension of License
Any annual business license issued pursuant to this article may be revoked or
suspended by the zoning administrator or designee at any time if any material
fact set forth in the application is or becomes untrue or ceases to exist or if
the business is conducted in violation of any town code provision or any town
ordinance. Notice of such revocation or suspension shall be served upon the
business by the town code enforcement officer or designee as soon as
practicable.
Section 8-3-7 Appeals
Any person aggrieved by the denial of an application, suspension or revocation
for an annual business license shall have the right to appeal to the town
council. The appeal shall be filed with the town clerk within ten calendar days
after a written statement of denial, revocation or suspension has been served
by the town code enforcement officer or designee. The town council shall set a
time and a place for the hearing of the appeal and the notice of the hearing
shall be given to the appellant. The decision and order of the town council on
the appeal shall be final.
CHAPTER 9 TRANSACTION PRIVILEGE TAX
Article 9-1   ADOPTION OF TAX CODE
   A.   That certain code entitled the Town Privilege and Excise Tax Code of
the Town of Carefree adopted by Ordinance 87-07 and including but not limited
to the amendments thereto pursuant to Ordinances 88-03, 90-05, 92-06, 94-17,
96-07, 96-17, 98-02, 98-03, 98-04, 98-07, 05-01, 06-04, 06-12, 2008-03, 2009-
05, 2011-05, and 2016-03 is hereby ratified and made a part of this code the
same as if specifically reenacted hereby. At least three copies of said code
and amendment shall be kept on file in the office of the town clerk.
   B.   That certain document known as Town of Carefree Use Tax, three copies
of which are on file in the office of the town clerk, which document was made a
public record by Resolution No. 2013-08 of the Town of Carefree, Arizona, is
hereby referred to, adopted and made a part of this code as if fully set out in
this Article.
CHAPTER 10 BUILDING
Article 10-1   COMPREHENSIVE BUILDING SAFETY CODE
   
10-1-1   Adoption
   
10-1-2   Amendments
   
10-1-3   Conformance with Zoning Ordinance
   
10-1-4   Enforcement
   
10-1-5   Violations and Penalties
Section 10-1-1 Adoption *
The following described documents including amendments thereto are hereby
adopted by reference as the code for regulating the erection, construction,
enlargement, alterations, repairs, moving, removal, demolition, conversion,
occupancy, equipment use, height, area and maintenance of buildings, structures
and improvements in the Town of Carefree and for regulating conditions and
hazards to life and property from fire or explosions. Each and all of the
following regulations, provisions, conditions and terms of the following
described documents and amendments thereto are hereby referred to, adopted and
made a part of Section 10-1-1 of Article 10-1 of the Carefree Town Code as
though fully set forth therein unless any portion thereof is in conflict with
the Town of Carefree Zoning Ordinance which shall take precedence:
   A.   "2018 International Building Code and Amendments" (collectively "IBC");
published by International Code Council, Inc.
   B.   "2018 International Residential Code and Amendments" (collectively
"IRC"); published by International Code Council, Inc.
   C.   "2018 International Plumbing Code and Amendments" (collectively "IPC");
published by International Code Council, Inc.
   D.   "2017 National Electrical Code and Amendments" (collectively "NEC");
published by National Fire Protection Council, Inc.
   E.   "2018 International Mechanical Code and Amendments" (collectively
"IMC"); published by International Code Council, Inc.
   F.   "2018 International Fire Code and Amendments" (collectively "IFC");
published by International Code Council, Inc.
   G.   "2018 International Energy Conservation Code and Amendments"
(collectively "IECC"); published by International Code Council, Inc.
   H.   "2018 International Fuel Gas Code and Amendments" (collectively
"IFGC"); published by International Code Council, Inc.
   I.   "2018 International Property Maintenance Code and Amendments
(collectively "IPMC"); published by International Code Council, Inc.
   J.   "2018 International Existing Building Code and Amendments (collectively
"IEBC"); published by International Code Council, Inc.
The IBC, IRC, IPC, NEC, IMC, IFC, IECC, IFGC, IPMC, IEBC, UADB and USP are
"codes" within the meaning of A.R.S. section 9-801. The Town of Carefree Adobe
Code and Conducting Blasting Operations Code are hereby declared to be a public
record of the Town of Carefree. Three copies of each of the foregoing documents
have been and shall remain on file in the office of the town clerk and kept
available for use and inspection by the public during office hours.
 
Notes
* *Ordinance 06-02; Amended by Ordinance 2022-02
Section 10-1-2 Amendments *
A.   Amendments to 2018 International Building Code.
   Effective January 24, 2023, there is herewith adopted, by reference, the
International Building Code, 2018 Edition, by ordinance of the Mayor and
Council of the Town of Carefree by reference thereto, as fully and completely
as if the terms thereof were fully set forth herein, in total, except as
modified or changed as follows:
   (1)   Chapter 1, "Administration", is hereby amended as follows:
      Section 101.1 Title. Insert the words "Town of Carefree" as the [NAME OF
JURISDICTION]. Also add, "The fees and administrative provisions of Chapter 1
of this Code shall apply to all the adopted technical codes. When there is a
conflict between these provisions and those of another technical code, these
provisions shall apply. Where there is an administrative provision contained in
another technical code and not in this code, then the administrative provision
of the technical code shall apply."
      Section 105.1.1 Annual permit. Delete this section in its entirety.
      Section 105.2 Work exempt from permit. Delete this section in its
entirety.
      Section 105.5.1 Expiration of additions and remodels. Amend to read as
follows:
      Every remodel and addition shall be completed within 180 days from the
date the permit is issued, or the permit will expire. One extension may be
granted by the Building Official on a case-by-case basis for a period to be
determined by the Building Official due to extenuated circumstances. Extension
requests must be delivered to the Building Official in writing prior to 180-day
expiration.
      Permits shall not be extended more than once and all requests for
extensions shall be in writing. In order to renew action on a permit after
expiration, a new permit fee in the full amount shall be paid based on the
current fee schedule adopted by the Town.
      Section 109.3 Building permit valuations. The following paragraphs shall
be added after the last sentence:
      For the purposes of determining valuations, the most current building
valuation data as published by the International Code Council in Building
Safety Journal magazine, as such data is published from time to time, shall be
used. The valuation for any shell-only buildings shall be permitted to be
reduced by 20 percent. The valuation for any foundation-only permit shall be
permitted to be reduced by 75 percent. When a foundation-only permit authorized
by the Building Official, it shall be permitted to include the foundation,
interior underground utilities and any interior slab-work when so specified.
Any valuation not specifically provided for shall be determined by the Building
Official and shall be classified in the use and construction type it most
nearly resembles. For the purposes of determining the fire permit valuation,
the most current building valuation data as published by the International Code
Council in Building Safety Journal magazine, as such data is published from
time to time, shall be used to determine fire permit fee from Table 1-E,
Section A. Any valuation not specifically provided for shall be determined by
the Building Official and shall be classified in the use and construction type
it most nearly resembles.
      Section 109.4 Work commencing before permit issuance. Add the following
to the end of this subsection: This fee shall be equal to the amount of the
plan review and permit fee required by the adopted fees of the Town. The
payment of such fee shall not exempt an applicant from nor from the penalty
prescribed by law.
      Section 109.6 Refunds. This subsection shall be revised in its entirety
to read as follows:
      Refunds. The Building Official shall be permitted to authorize refunding
of a fee paid hereunder which was erroneously paid or collected. The Building
Official shall be permitted to authorize refunding of not more than 80 percent
of the permit fee paid when no work has been done under a permit issued in
accordance with this code. The Building Official shall be permitted to
authorize refunding of not more than 80 percent of the plan review fee paid
when an application for a permit for which a plan review fee has been paid is
withdrawn or canceled before any examination time has been expended. The
Building Official shall not be permitted to authorize refunding of any fee paid
except upon written application filed by the original permittee not later than
90 days after the date of fee payment.
      Add the following two subsections:
      Section 109.7 Plan review fees. Said plan review fee shall be 65 percent
of the permit fee as shown in Tables 1-A through 1-D in subsection 108.8. When
a plan review for compliance with the Fire Code (exclusive of fire/smoke
detection and/or suppressions systems) is required, a plan review fee of 35
percent of the previously stated 65 percent plan review fee shall be charged.
Any submittals that require three or more reviews shall be charged an hourly
rate of $100.00 per review with a minimum rate of $100.00. Fire systems plan
review fee shall be 65 percent of the permit fee as shown in Tables 1-E,
Section A. In no case shall any plan review fee be less than $35.00 except as
stated otherwise in subsection 109.8.
      Section 109.8 Fee schedule. Unless otherwise indicated, the following
fees will be applicable to residential and non-residential projects. Fire
protection/suppression permits for new structures and modifications for fire
protection/suppression systems shall be as listed in Table 1-E, Section B.
      Permits for Existing Residential (R-3) Buildings, swimming pools,
including but not limited to, interior alterations, detached garages, carports,
storage sheds, patio covers and gazebos, shall be charged a building permit fee
based on Table 1-A and a plan review fee of 65% of the building permit fee. For
habitable room additions, the permit fee shall be based on Table 1-A and the
plan review fee shall be 65% of the building permit fee. Revisions to any of
the above types of plans shall be charged a $50.00 plan review fee per hour.
   TABLE 1-A BUILDING PERMIT & PLAN REVIEW FEES
TOTAL VALUATION BUILDING PERMIT FEES
TOTAL VALUATION            BUILDING PERMIT FEES
$1.00 to $500.00           $25.00
                           $25.00 for the first $500.00 plus $3.00 for each
$501.00 to $2,000.00       additional $100.00 or fraction thereof, to and
                           including $2,000.00
                           $65.00 for the first $2,000.00 plus $15.00 for each
$2,001.00 to $25,000.00    additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof, to and
                           including $25,000.00
                           $410.00 for the first $25,000.00 plus $13.00 for
$25,001.00 to $50,000.00   each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof, to
                           and including $50,000.00
                           $735.00 for the first $50,000.00 plus $10.00 for
$50,001.00 to $100,000.00  each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof, to
                           and including $100,000.00
                           $1,250.00 for the first $100,000.00 plus $9.00 for
$100,001.00 to $500,000.00 each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof, to
                           and including $500,000.00
$500,001.00 to             $4,850.00 for the first $500,000.00 plus $14.00 for
$1,000,000.00              each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof, to
                           and including $1,000,000.00
$1,000,001.00 and up       $11,850.00 for the first $1,000,000.00 plus $5.00
                           for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof
Other Inspections and Fees:
(Applies to building, structural, electrical, mechanical and plumbing).
1.    Inspections outside of normal business hours (minimum charge - 4 hours,
collected prior to conducting inspection(s)   100.00 per hour
2   Re-inspection fees   $100.00 per hour*
3.   Inspections or administrative services for which no fee is specifically
indicated
      $100.00 per hour*
4.    Additional review required by changes, additions, or lost plans or plan
review comment sheets (minimum charge 1 hour)   $100.00 per hour
5. For use of outside consultants for plan checking and/or
inspections   Actual Cost**
6. Site plan review (or revision) for residential standard plan
submittals   $50.00 each
7. Review of deferred submittals (submitted after initial plan review)   
$175.00 per submittal
8. Certificate of Occupancy permit (except R-3 single-family accessory
uses)   $50.00 per building or "shell" plus $25.00 for each additional non-
residential tenant improvement. $25.00 per building for R-3 single-family. All
Certificate of Occupancy permit fees (except those in #9 below) shall be
collected at time of permit issuance.
9. Temporary, partial or conditional Certificate of Occupancy Same as for
Certificate of Occupancy in #8 above and shall be collected prior to
conducting inspection.
10. Replication of plans (when legally authorized)   Actual replication cost
plus $100.00
11. Annual renewal of standard residential plans (per plan)   $30.00
12. Annual renewal of standard swimming pool plans (per plan)   $30.00
13. Expedited plan review of commercial/industrial/multi-family
projects   Double plan review fee
14. Preliminary fee for standard residential plans   $500.00 per standard
plan, due at submittal
15. Written response to request for bldg, code or bldg, safety division policy
issues   $50.00
16. Stamping of additional approved plans (after the 2 initially submitted
sets)   $50.00 each
17. Fee for annual permit per section 105.1.1   $500.00
18. Public schools will only be charged the actual costs incurred from plan
review and/or inspection by consultants as well as any re-inspection fees as
specified in #2 above and section 108.8.
 
*   Or the total hourly cost to the jurisdiction, whichever is greater. This
cost shall include supervision, overhead, equipment, hourly wages and fringe
benefits of the employees involved.
   Minimum charge: one hour.
**   Actual costs include consultant's fees and town administration and
overhead costs at the rate of $100.00 per hour with a minimum charge of one
hour, or normal plan review fees, whichever is greater.
      Section 113.1 General. Amend as follows: The Board of Adjustment to serve
as the Board of Appeals. In order to determine the suitability of alternate
materials and methods of construction and to provide for reasonable
interpretation of the provisions of this code, there shall be and is hereby
created a Board of Appeals. The Building Official shall be an ex-officio member
of and shall act as secretary to said Board. The members of the Board of
Adjustments from time to time in office shall constitute the Board of Appeals.
Appeals to the Board shall be processed in accordance with the provisions of
this code. Copies of all rules or regulations adopted by the Board shall be
delivered to the Building Official, who shall make them freely accessible to
the public.
      Add the following subsections:
      Section 113.4 Application. The application shall be filed in writing and
submitted to the Building Official within 20 calendar days after the notice was
served.
      Section 113.5 Notice of meeting. The Board shall meet upon notice from
the Building Official, Fire Official or Code Enforcement Manager within ten
calendar days of the filing of an appeal.
      Section 113.5.1 Open hearing. All hearings before the Board shall be open
to the public. The appellant, the appellant’s representative, the Building
Official, the Fire Official, the Code Enforcement Manager and any person whose
interests are affected shall be given an opportunity to be heard.
      Section 113.5.2 Postponed hearing. When five members are not present to
hear an appeal, either the appellant or the appellant's representative shall
have the right to request a postponement of the hearing.
      Section 113.5.3 Board decision. The Board shall modify or reverse the
decision of the Building Official, Fire Official or Code Enforcement Manager by
a majority vote of its members.
      Section 113.5.4 Administration. The Building Official, Fire Official and
Code Enforcement Manager shall take immediate action in accordance with the
decision of the Board.
      Section 114.4 Violation penalties. Delete this section in its entirety
and add "Violation penalties are set forth in Carefree Town Code Chapter 10,
Section 10-1-5."
      Section 115.3 Revise this section by deleting “prescribed by law” and
replacing with "set forth in Carefree Town Code Chapter 10, Section 10-1-5".
   (3)   Chapter 3, "Use and Occupancy Classification", is hereby amended as
follows:
      Sections 308.2, 308.3, 310.1, 310.1.1, 310.1.2 and 310.2 of Section 308,
"Institutional Group I", to read as follows:
      Section 308.2 Institutional Group I-1. This occupancy shall include
buildings, structures or parts thereof housing more than ten persons on a 24-
hour basis who because of age, mental disability or other reasons, live in a
residential environment that provides supervisory care services. The occupants
are capable of responding to an emergency situation without physical assistance
from staff. This group shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      Residential board and care facilities
      Assisted living centers
      Halfway houses
      Group homes
      Congregate care facilities
      Social rehabilitation facilities
      Alcohol and drug abuse centers
      Convalescent facilities
      A facility such as the above with five or fewer persons shall be
classified as a Group R-4 Condition 1 or shall comply with the International
Residential Code in accordance with Section 101.2 where the building is in
compliance with Section 419 of this code.
      Section 308.2.3 Revise section by deleting 16 and replacing with ten.
      Section 308.3 .2 Five or fewer persons receiving medical care. Delete
this section in its entirety
      Section 310.4.1 Care facilities within a dwelling. Revise section by
adding “that are capable of self-preservation" following “Care facilities for
five or fewer persons”.
      Section 310.5 Residential Group R-4. Revise section by deleting 16 and
replacing it with ten.
      Section 1612.3 Revise by inserting “Town of Carefree” as the [NAME OF
JURISDICTION] and date of most recent issuance for [DATE OF ISSUANCE].
B.   Amendments to 2018 International Residential Code.
   Effective January 24, 2023. there is herewith adopted, by reference, the
International Residential Code, 2018 Edition, published by the International
Code Council, be and the same are hereby adopted as the Code of the Town of
Carefree for regulating the erection, construction, enlargement, alteration,
repair, moving, removal, demolition, conversion, occupancy, equipment, use,
height, area, and maintenance of all buildings or structures as defined in this
Code in the Town of Carefree; providing for issuance of permits and collection
of fees therefore and each and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions
and terms of such International Residential Code, 2018 Edition, published by
ordinance of the Mayor and Council of the Town of Carefree, by reference in
total and as if each of the provisions thereof were set forth herein, except as
follows:
   (1)   Chapter 1, "Administration", is hereby amended as follows:
      Section R101.1 Title. Insert the words "Town of Carefree" as the [NAME OF
JURISDICTION].
      Section R102.5.1 Adopt Appendices APPENDIX F, H, M and P.
      Section R104.8 Liability. Amend as follows: The Board of Adjustment to
serve as the Board of Appeals.
      Section R105.2 Delete this section in its entirety.
      Section R107.3 Temporary power. Delete the words "NFPA 70" and insert in
lieu thereof, "Electrical Code adopted by the Town of Carefree and amended from
time to time."
      Section R112. Delete the words Board of Appeals and replace with Board of
Adjustment.
      Section R112.1. Delete this section in its entirety.
      Section R112.2. Delete this section in its entirety.
      Section R112.3. Delete this section in its entirety
      Section R113.3 Prosecution of violation. If the notice of violation is
not complied with in the time prescribed by such notice, the Building Official
is authorized to request the legal counsel of the jurisdiction to institute the
appropriate proceeding at law or in equity to restrain, correct or abate such
violation, or to require the removal or termination of the unlawful occupancy
of the building or structure in violation of the provisions of this code or of
the order or direction made pursuant thereto.
   (3)   Chapter 3, "Building Planning", is hereby amended to read as follows:
      Table R301.2(1), insert the following:
      Roof Snow Load: 0
      Wind speed: 90 mph, Exposure B (Unless otherwise designated by the
Building Official)
      Seismic Design Category: B
      Weathering: NEGLIGIBLE
      Frost Line Depth: 12"
      Termite: MODERATE TO HEAVY
      Decay: NONE TO SLIGHT
      Winter Design Temperature: 24 degrees F
      Flood Hazards: (a) July 9, 1984, (b) July 19, 2001
      Air Freezing Index: 1500 or less
      Mean Annual Temp: 71.2
      Section R313.1 Exception: Delete in its entirety.
      Section R313.2 Exception: Delete in its entirety.
      Section M1411.3 Condensate disposal. Revise section by adding the
following at the end of this paragraph:
      Condensate disposal shall be allowed to terminate as follows:
      1.   Into an approved fixture tailpiece, funnel drain, waste air gap
fitting, floor sink, and laundry way.
      2.   At or below grade outside the building in an area capable of
absorbing the condensate flow without surface drainage.
      3.   Overflow drains, gutters, or downspouts that connect to drainage
pipes, provided they terminate at or above grade in an area capable of
absorbing the condensate flow without surface drainage.
      Section P2603.5.1 Sewer depth. Insert 12” as the [NUMBER OF INCHES IN TWO
LOCATIONS].
C.   Amendments to 2018 International Plumbing Code.
   Effective January 24, 2023, there is herewith adopted, by reference, the
International Plumbing Code, 2018 Edition along with adopting APPENDIX C of
this code, and as declared a public record by Ordinance of the Mayor and
Council of the Town of Carefree, by reference in total and as if each of the
provisions thereof were set forth herein, except as amended or modified as
follows:
      Section 101.1 Title. Revise section by inserting “Town of Carefree” as
the [NAME OF JURISDICTION].
      Section 103.4 Liability. Revise section by deleting Board of Appeals and
replacing it with Board of Adjustment.
      Section 106.1.1 Annual permit. Delete this section in its entirety.
      Section 106.6.2 Fee schedule. The fees for each plumbing permit shall be
as set forth in Chapter 10 Section 10-1-2 of the Carefree Town Code.
      Section 106.6.3 Fee refunds. Revise by inserting "shall be set forth in
Carefree Town Code Chapter 10, Section 10-1-2."
      Section 108.4 Violations penalties. Delete this section in its entirety
and adding "Violations penalties are set forth in Carefree Town Code Chapter
10, Section 10-1-5."
      Section 108.5 Stop work orders. Delete in its entirety. Revise by
inserting "are set forth in Carefree Town Code Chapter 10, Section 10-1-5."
      Section 109 Means of appeal. Delete subsections 109.1 through 109.7 and
replace with “The means of appeal are set forth in Carefree Town Code Chapter
10 Section 10-1-2."
      Section 305.4.1 Sewer depth. Revise by inserting 12” [NUMBER OF INCHES IN
TWO LOCATIONS],
      Section 314.2.1 Condensate disposal. Revise section by adding the
following at the end of this paragraph:
      Condensate disposal shall be allowed to terminate as follows:
      4.   Into an approved fixture tailpiece, funnel drain, waste air gap
fitting, floor sink, and laundry way.
      5.   At or below grade outside the building in an area capable of
absorbing the condensate flow without surface drainage.
      6.   Overflow drains, gutters, or downspouts that connect to drainage
pipes, provided they terminate at or above grade in an area capable of
absorbing the condensate flow without surface drainage.
      Section 410.4 Substitution. Revise section by adding a sentence to the
end of the paragraph as follows:
      When a single drinking fountain is required, it may be substituted with a
water dispenser.
      Section 903.1 Roof extension. Revise by inserting 6” in [NUMBER OF
INCHES].
D.   Amendments to 2017 National Electrical Code.
   Effective January 24, 2023, there is herewith adopted, in total, by
reference thereto the National Electrical Code, 2017 Edition, as published by
the National Fire Protection Association and adopted as a public record by
Ordinance of the Mayor and Council of the Town of Carefree, as fully and
completely as if set forth in full herein, except as may be hereafter or
otherwise amended by this chapter.
E.   Amendments to 2018 International Mechanical Code.
   Effective January 24, 2023, there is herewith adopted, by reference, the
International Mechanical Code, 2018 Edition published by the International Code
Council and as declared a public record by Ordinance of the Mayor and Council
of the Town of Carefree, by reference in total and as if each of the provisions
were set forth herein, except as modified or changed as follows:
   (1)   Chapter 1, "Administration", is hereby amended as follows:
      Section 101.1 Title. Insert the words "Town of Carefree" as the [NAME OF
JURISDICTION].
      Section 103.4 Liability. Revise by deleting Board of Appeals and
replacing it with Board of Adjustment.
      Section 106.4.3 Expiration. Amend to read as follows:
      Every permit issued shall become invalid unless the work authorized by
such permit is commenced and required inspections are requested by the
permittee and approved by the Code Official within 180 days after its issuance,
or if more than 180 days elapses between approval of required inspections. The
Code Official shall be authorized to grant one extension of time for a period
not to exceed 180 days. Permits shall not be extended more than once and all
requests for extensions shall be in writing. In order to renew action on a
permit after expiration, a new full permit fee shall be paid based on the
current fee schedule adopted by the Town of Carefree.
      Section 106.4.4 Extensions. Amend to read as follows:
      An application for a permit for any proposed work shall be deemed to have
been abandoned 180 days after the date of filing, unless such application had
been pursued in good faith or a permit has been issued; except that the
Building Official is authorized to grant one extension of time for a period not
to exceed 90 days. The extension shall be requested in writing and justifiable
cause demonstrated.
      Section 106.5.2 Fee schedule. Amend to read as follows:
      All fees shall be in accordance with Chapter One of the International
Building Code as adopted by the Town of Carefree and amended from time to time.
      Section 106.5.3 Fee refunds. Amend to read as follows:
      The Code Official shall be permitted to authorize refunding of a fee paid
hereunder which was erroneously paid or collected. The Code Official shall be
permitted to authorize refunding of not more than 80 percent of the permit fee
paid when no work has been done under a permit issued in accordance with this
code. The Code Official shall be permitted to authorize refunding of not more
that 80 percent of the plan review fee paid when an application for a permit
for which a plan review fee has been paid is withdrawn or canceled before any
examination time has been expended. The Code Official shall not be permitted to
authorize refunding of any fee paid except upon written application filed by
the original permittee not later than 90 days after the date of fee payment.
      Section 108.4 Violation penalties. Delete this section in its entirety
and adding "Violation penalties are set forth in Carefree Town Code Chapter 10,
Section 10-1-5."
      Section 108.5 Stop work order. Amend the last sentence to read as
follows:
      Any person who shall continue any work on the system after having been
served by a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to
perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable for a fine
as established by Carefree Town Code Chapter 10-1-5.
      Section 109 Means of appeal. Delete subsections 109.1 through 109.7 and
replace with “The means of appeal are set forth in Carefree Town Code Chapter
10 Section 10-1-2."
      Section 314.2.1 Condensate disposal. Revise section by adding the
following at the end of this paragraph:
      Condensate disposal shall be allowed to terminate as follows:
      7.   Into an approved fixture tailpiece, funnel drain, waste air gap
fitting, floor sink, and laundry way.
      8.   At or below grade outside the building in an area capable of
absorbing the condensate flow without surface drainage.
      9.   Overflow drains, gutters, or downspouts that connect to drainage
pipes, provided they terminate at or above grade in an area capable of
absorbing the condensate flow without surface drainage.
F.   Amendments to 2018 International Fire Code.
   Effective January 24, 2023, there is herewith adopted, by reference, the
International Fire Code, 2018 Edition published by the International Code
Council and as declared a public record by Ordinance of the Mayor and Council
of the Town of Carefree, by reference in total and as if each of the provisions
thereof were set forth herein, except as modified or changed as follows:
      Section 10-1-1. Definitions.
      The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this Article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
      Chief means the chief of the Rural/Metro Fire Department.
      Duly authorized agent shall mean an individual employed by Rural/Metro
Fire Department who has been appointed by the fire chief, in writing, to have
the authority to issue civil fire code violations. Such authorization shall be
filed with the Town Clerk.
      Fire department means the Rural/Metro Fire Department or, in the event
that the town shall provide its own fire protection service, that organization.
      Hillside landform area. Any parcel of land or portion thereof with a
surface slope that can easily exceed fifteen (15) percent where major collector
streets have a maximum grade of nine (9) percent, and minor and local collector
streets have a maximum grade twelve (12) percent and local residential streets
have a maximum grade of fifteen (15) percent.
      NICET means the National Institute for the Certification of Engineering
Technologies, 1420 King Street, Alexander, VA: 22314-2915.
      Town Code means Town of Carefree Town Code.
      International Fire Code means the International Fire Code, 2018 Edition.
      Section 1. Section 10-1-1 F of the Town Code is hereby repealed and
replaced by a new section 10-1-1 F 2018 IFC, which shall read as follows:
      Section 10-1-1 .1 Assumption of Jurisdiction; adoption.
      (a)   Pursuant to the provisions of A.R.S, § 34-461 and § 41-2163 (A)(2),
the Town of Carefree, having in effect a nationally recognized fire code, does
hereby assume jurisdiction from the State Fire Safety Committee for prescribing
and enforcing minimum Fire Prevention Codes and Standards within the Town of
Carefree.
      (b)   The International Fire Code, 2018 edition, as published jointly by
the International Code Council, Inc., and all appendices are adopted by
reference and shall be the Fire Code of the town. Three (3) copies of the same
shall at all times remain in the Office of the Town Clerk and be open to
inspection.
      Section 10-1-1 .2 Amendments.
      The International Fire Code (I.F.C.) 2018 Edition, is amended in the
following respects:
      101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Town of Carefree
Fire Code, hereinafter referred to as “this code”.
G.   Amendments to 2018 International Energy Conservation Code.
   Effective January 24, 2023, there is herewith adopted, by reference, the
International Energy Conservation Code, 2018 Edition published by the
International Code Council and as declared a public record by Ordinance of the
Mayor and Council of the Town of Carefree, by reference in total and as if each
of the provisions thereof were set forth herein, except as modified or changed
as follows:
      Section C101.1 Title. Revise section by inserting Town of Carefree [NAME
OF JURISDICTION]
      Section C109 Board of Appeals. Delete the words Board of Appeals and
replace it with Board of Adjustment.
      Section C402.1.1 Low-energy buildings. Revise section by adding item #4:
      1.   Structures not intended for public occupancy that have openings in
the thermal envelope during business operations and do not utilize air
conditioning such as repair garages, fabrication shops, warehouses, or similar
facilities.
      Section C403.1.1 Calculations of heating and cooling loads. Revise
section by adding the following at the end of the paragraph:
      Not required for emergency replacement of cooling and heating equipment
where there are no alterations, additions, or changes of occupancy.
H.   Amendments to 2018 Fuel Gas Code International.
   Effective January 24, 2023, there is herewith adopted, by reference, the
International Fuel Gas Code, 2018 Edition published by the International Code
Council and as declared a public record by Ordinance of the Mayor and Council
of the Town of Carefree, by reference in total and as if each of the provisions
thereof were set forth herein, except as modified or changed as follows:
      Section 101.1 Title. Revise section by inserting Town of Carefree [NAME
OF JURISDICTION].
      Section 103.4 Liability. Delete the words Board of Appeals and replace it
with Board of Adjustment.
      Section 106.1.1 Annual permit. Delete this section in its entirety.
      Section 106.6.2 Fee schedule. Amend to read as follows:
      All fees shall be in accordance with Chapter One of the International
Building Code as adopted by the Town of Carefree and amended from time to time.
      Section 106.6.3 Fee refunds. Amend to read as follows:
      The Code Official shall be permitted to authorize refunding of a fee paid
hereunder which was erroneously paid or collected. The Code Official shall be
permitted to authorize refunding of not more than 80 percent of the permit fee
paid when no work has been done under a permit issued in accordance with this
code. The Code Official shall be permitted to authorize refunding of not more
that 80 percent of the plan review fee paid when an application for a permit
for which a plan review fee has been paid is withdrawn or canceled before any
examination time has been expended. The Code Official shall not be permitted to
authorize refunding of any fee paid except upon written application filed by
the original permittee not later than 90 days after the date of fee payment.
      Section 108.4 Violation penalties. Delete this section in its entirety
and adding "Violation penalties are set forth in Carefree Town Code Chapter 10,
Section 10-1-5."
      Section 108.5 Stop work order. Amend the last sentence to read as
follows:
      Any person who shall continue any work on the system after having been
served by a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to
perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable for a fine
as established by Carefree Town Code Chapter 10-1-5.
      Section 109.1 Application for appeal. Delete subsections 109.1 through
109.7 and replace with “The means of appeal are set forth in Carefree Town Code
Chapter 10 Section 10-1-2.
I.   Amendments to 2018 International Property Maintenance Code.
   Effective January 24, 2023, there is herewith adopted, by reference, the
International Property Maintenance Code, 2018 Edition published by the
International Code Council and as declared a public record by Ordinance of the
Mayor and Council of the Town of Carefree, by reference in total and as if each
of the provisions thereof were set forth herein, except as modified or changed
as follows:
      Section 101.1 Title. Revise section by inserting Town of Carefree [NAME
OF JURISDICTION],
      Section 103.4 Liability. Delete the words Board of Appeals and replace it
with Board of Adjustment.
      Section 103.5 Fees. Amend to read as follows:
      All fees shall be in accordance with Chapter One of the International
Building Code as adopted by the Town of Carefree and amended from time to time.
      Section 106.4 Violation penalties. Delete this section in its entirety
and adding "Violation penalties are set forth in Carefree Town Code Chapter 10,
Section 10-1-5."
      Section 111.1 Application for appeal. Delete subsections 111.1 through
111.8 and replace with “The means of appeal are set forth in Carefree Town Code
Chapter 10 Section 10-1-2."
      Section 111.2 Membership of Board. Delete this section and its
subsections in their entirety.
      Section 111.7 Court review. Delete this section in its entirety.
      Section 111.8 Stay of enforcement. Revise by deleting Appeals Board and
replacing it with Board of Adjustment.
      Section 112.4 Failure to comply. Amend the last sentence to read as
follows: Any person who shall continue any work on the system after having been
served by a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to
perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable for a fine
as established by Carefree Town Code Chapter 10-1-5.
      Section 202 General Definitions. Revise Cost of Such Demolitions or
Emergency Repairs by Deleting Board of Appeals and replacing it with Board of
Adjustment.
      Section 302.4 Weeds. Revise by inserting 9 inches in height.
      Section 304.14 Insect Screens. Revise section by deleting “During the
period from (date) to (date)”and capitalizing “EVERY.”
      Section 602.3 Heat supply. Revise section by deleting “During the period
from (date) to (date) to maintain" and replacing with “capable of maintain.”
      Section 602.4 Occupiable workspace. Revise section by deleting “During
the period from (date) to (date) to maintain" and replacing with “capable of
maintain.”
 
Notes
* * Ordinance 06-02; Amended by Ordinance 07-01; Ordinance 2022-02
Section 10-1-3 Conformance with Zoning Ordinance
Whenever a building permit is issued and a building inspection performed, such
building must conform to the provisions of the zoning ordinance of the town in
addition to the provisions of this chapter.
Section 10-1-4 Enforcement *
The town building official is hereby authorized and directed to administer and
enforce this article. The town building official is further authorized and
directed to make annual inspections of all commercial buildings within the town
limits for the purpose of enforcing this article. All other town law
enforcement officials and agencies shall, whenever requested by the town
building official, participate in and assist the town building official in the
enforcement of this article to the extent that they are lawfully authorized to
do so.
 
Notes
* *Ordinances 87-12 and 91-07 in part
 Section 10-1-5 Violations and Penalties **
Any person, firm or corporation upon admission or conviction of violating any
provision of this article, and the codes and public records adopted herein by
reference, shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor and shall be punished by a
fine not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars, by imprisonment for a
period not to exceed six months in jail, by a term of probation not to exceed
three years, or by any combination of such fine, imprisonment and probation.
Each day that a violation continues shall be a separate offense punishable as
described herein.
 
Notes
** Ordinances 87-12 and 89-26 in part; amended by Ordinance 2022-01
Article 10-2   STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS AND DETAILS ***
   A.   That certain document entitled "Uniform Standard Specifications for
Public Works Construction," sponsored and distributed by the Maricopa
Association of Governments and all amendments and addenda thereto, is hereby
adopted by the Town of Carefree and made a part of this chapter as though said
document were set forth in full herein; and three copies thereof shall be kept
on file in the office of the town clerk and kept available for public use and
inspection during office hours.
   B.   That certain document entitled "Uniform Standard Details for Public
Works Construction," sponsored and distributed by the Maricopa Association of
Governments, and all amendments and addenda thereto, is hereby adopted by the
Town of Carefree and made a part of this chapter as though said document were
set forth in full herein; and three copies thereof shall be kept on file in the
office of the town clerk and kept available for public use and inspection
during office hours.
 
Notes
*** ***Ordinance 85-10 (Sections 1 and 2)
Article 10-3   ARIZONANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT *
   A.   Standards and specifications set forth in Title 41, Chapter 9, Articles
8, Arizona Revised Statutes (Arizonans with Disabilities Act), and its
implementing rules, including "Americans with Disabilities Act Accessibility
Guidelines for Buildings and Facilities" declared a public record by Resolution
No. 97-03, as applying to public entities, are hereby adopted and incorporated
as an amendment to the Uniform Building Code adopted in Section 10-1-2 of the
Town Code and made part thereof as though fully set forth therein. Such
standards and specifications shall apply to new construction and alterations
and are not required in buildings or portions of existing buildings that do not
meet the standards and specifications.
   B.   Standards and specifications set forth in Title 41, Chapter 9, Article
8, Arizona Revised Statutes (Arizonans with Disabilities Act), and its
implementing rules, including "Americans with Disabilities Act Accessibility
Guidelines for Buildings and Facilities" declared a public record by Resolution
No. 97-03, as applying to public accommodations and commercial facilities, are
hereby adopted and incorporated as an amendment to the Uniform Building Code
adopted in Section 10-1-2 of the Town Code and made part thereof as though
fully set forth therein. Such standards and specifications shall apply to new
construction and alterations commenced after September 3, 1996.
 
Notes
* *Ordinance 97-01
Article 10-4   CLEAN-BURNING FIREPLACE STANDARDS **
   A.   The purpose of this Article is to regulate fireplaces, wood stoves or
other solid-fuel burning devices to reduce the amount of air pollution caused
by particulate matter and carbon monoxide.
   B.   For purposes of this Article, the following words and terms shall be
defined as follows:
      1.   "Fireplace" means a built-in-place masonry hearth and fire chamber
of a factory-built appliance, designed to burn solid fuel or to accommodate gas
or electric log insert or similar device, and which is intended for occasional
recreational or aesthetic use, not for cooking, heating or industrial
processes.
      2.   "Solid fuel" includes but is not limited to wood, coal or other
nongaseous or nonliquid fuels, including those fuels defined by the Maricopa
County Air Pollution Control Officer as "inappropriate fuel" to burn in
residential woodburning devices.
      3.   "Woodstove" means a solid-fuel burning heating appliance including a
pellet stove, which is either freestanding or designed to be inserted into a
fireplace.
   C.   No person shall construct or install a fireplace or a wood stove unless
the fireplace or woodstove complies with one of the following:
      1.   A fireplace which has a permanently installed gas or electric log
insert.
      2.   A fireplace, woodstove or other solid-fuel burning appliance which
has been certified by the United States Environmental Protection Agency as
conforming to 40 Code of Federal Regulations Part 60, Subpart AAA as in effect
on July 1, 1990.
      3.   A fireplace, woodstove or other solid-fuel burning appliance which
has been tested and listed by a nationally recognized testing agency to meet
performance standards equivalent to those adopted by 40 Code of Federal
Regulations Part 60, Subpart AAA as in effect on July 1, 1990.
      4.   A fireplace, woodstove or other solid-fuel burning appliance which
has been determined by the Maricopa County Air Pollution Control Officer to
meet performance standards equivalent to those adopted by 40 Code of Federal
Regulations Part 60, Subpart AAA as in effect on July 1, 1990.
      5.   A fireplace which has a permanently installed woodstove insert which
complies with paragraphs 2, 3 or 4 above.
   D.   The following installations are not regulated by this Article and are
not prohibited by this Article:
      1.   Furnaces, boiler, incinerators, kilns and other similar space
heating or industrial process equipment.
      2.   Cookstoves, barbecue grills and similar appliances designed
primarily for cooking.
      3.   Fire pits, barbecue grills and other outdoor fireplaces.
   E.   No person shall alter or remove a gas or electric log insert or a
woodstove insert from a fireplace for purposes of converting the fireplaces to
directly burn wood or other solid fuel. No person shall alter a fireplace,
woodstove or other solid fuel-burning appliance in any manner that would void
its certification or operational compliance with the provision of this Article.
   F.   In addition to the provisions and restrictions of this Article,
construction, installation or alteration of all fireplaces, wood stoves and
other gas, electric or solid-fuel burning appliances and equipment shall be
done in compliance with provisions of the Comprehensive Building Safety Code
and shall be subject to the permits and inspections required by the
Comprehensive Building Safety Code.
 
Notes
** **Ordinance 98-14
Article 10-5   BLASTING OPERATIONS
   
10-5-1   Scope
   
10-5-2   Definitions
   
10-5-3   Blasting Contractor Requirements
   
10-5-4   Licensing
   
10-5-5   Certification of Fitness
   
10-5-6   Blasting Site Permit
   
10-5-7   Certificate of Insurance
   
10-5-8   Hold Harmless
   
10-5-9   Documentation
   
10-5-10   Blasting Site Permit Renewal
   
10-5-11   Conducting Blasting Operations
   
10-5-12   One-Day Supply of Explosive Materials On-Site
   
10-5-13   Temporary On-Site Explosive Material Storage Permit
   
10-5-14   Temporary On-Site Explosive Material Storage Permit Renewal
Section 10-5-1 Scope
This Article applies to the possession, storage and use of explosive materials
used in conjunction with permitted blasting operations conducted within the
town.
Section 10-5-2 Definitions
   A.   "Approved" as applied to a material device, or mode of construction,
means approved by the town engineer.
   B.   "Attended" shall mean an unobstructed view of the on-site explosive
material storage.
   C.   "Barricade" shall mean an artificial mound or wall of earth the
thickness of three feet or any other approved barricade that offers equivalent
protection.
   D.   "Certification of fitness" shall mean the documentation and results of
any examinations to prove the applicant has been found satisfactory to use or
transport explosives.
   E.   "Explosive materials" shall mean Class A, Class B and Class C
explosives, including detonators, detonating cord and blasting agents, used in
conjunction with blasting operations.
   F.   "Temporary" shall mean thirty to ninety calendar days or fraction
thereof, or length of a specific blasting operation permit, whichever is less.
Section 10-5-3 Blasting Contractor Requirements
Prior to applying for a permit to conduct blasting operations within the town
limits, the blasting contractor shall submit the following documentation to the
town engineer:
   A.   A copy of a valid Federal Explosives User's Permit or Federal
Explosives License.
   B.   A copy of the license issued by the State of Arizona Registrar of
Contractors for the type of blasting operations proposed to be conducted by the
contractor as follows:
      1.   A. General Engineering. Construction in connection with fixed works
requiring specialized engineering knowledge and skill, including streets and
roads, power and utilities plants, dams and hydroelectric plants, sewage and
waste disposal plants, bridges, tunnels and over-passes. Also included are the
scopes of work allowed by all other engineering classifications.
      2.   A-3, Blasting. The use of explosive and explosive devices for the
purposes of excavation, demolition, geological exploration, mining or any
related blasting. Included is any drilling, boring or earthwork required for
the placement of explosive charges, the erection of temporary shelters,
barricades and associated protective devices, equipment and enclosures.
      3.   AE. (As restricted by Registrar.)
      4.   C-15, Blasting. Use of explosives for movement of earthen materials
or for demolition (residential in accordance with State of Arizona Registrar of
Contractor definition.)
Section 10-5-4 Licensing
The applicant shall be a minimum of 21 years of age and shall require a minimum
of two years experience in the conduct of blasting operations. Experience shall
include the understanding of blasting designs, drilling of holes, loading of
holes, decking stemming and wiring methods.
Section 10-5-5 Certification of Fitness
Any person requesting to conduct blasting operations within the town shall
first present a current and valid Certificate of Fitness Card issued by the
City of Phoenix.
Section 10-5-6 Blasting Site Permit
A blasting site permit shall be applied for with the town engineer to conduct a
blasting operation at a specific site. The permit shall be valid for a period
not to exceed ninety calendar days and shall be applied for a minimum of five
work days prior to the proposed blasting date.
Section 10-5-7 Certificate of Insurance
The applicant shall furnish the town with a valid Certificate of Insurance on a
standard insurance industry ACORD form. The certificate shall be issued by an
insurance company authorized to transact business in the State of Arizona, or
be named on the listed Unauthorized Insurers maintained by the Arizona
Department of Insurance. The following information shall be identified:
   A.   The contractor shall be named as the insured. If the insurance is
provided by an individual, company or partnership other than the contractor,
the contractor shall be named as an additional insured.
   B.   The Town of Carefree, a municipal corporation, shall be named as an
additional insured and certificate holder.
   C.   General liability limits, including contractual liability, in the
amount of $2,000,000 combined single limit.
      Note: Greater amounts, than that stated above, may be required in certain
cases as deemed necessary by the town engineer or his authorized
representative.
   D.   A description of the operations covered under the insurance, relating
to the blasting operations and storage of explosive materials if applicable.
Section 10-5-8 Hold Harmless
The contractor shall submit a hold harmless agreement in favor of the town for
each blasting site location or permit applied for.
Section 10-5-9 Documentation
The contractor shall submit to the town engineer an accurately scaled drawing
(1" = 100 feet) of the proposed blasting area identifying:
   A.   Property lines.
   B.   Proposed blasting location.
   C.   Structures within a 300-foot radius of the proposed blasting site and
the structure(s)' owner and street address, if applicable. Greater distances
may be required in certain areas or under certain circumstances, as determined
by the town engineer or his authorized representative.
      1.   Location of all aboveground and underground utilities, i.e., natural
gas piping and lines, electric lines, phone lines, water lines.
      2.   At the time of application for a blasting site permit, the
contractor shall submit proof that a pre-blast survey has been conducted of any
and all structures within a 300-foot radius of the proposed blasting area. Pre-
blast surveys of the structures located at distances greater than a 300 foot
radius may be required in certain areas or under certain circumstances, as
determined by the town engineer or his authorized representative.
      3.   The blasting contractor or his authorized representative shall
document whether there are structures within a 300 foot radius of the blasting
area, in what form the pre-blast survey was conducted, and where a copy of the
pre-blast survey can be located.
      4.   The contractor shall make a minimum of four attempts to contact the
owner/occupant of a structure in the pre-blast survey area. At least two of the
contacts shall be made during the day and two of the contacts shall be made
between 6 p.m. and 9 p.m. If unsuccessful, a notarized statement detailing the
address, dates, times and the name of the person making the contacts shall be
submitted to the town engineer as part of the permit application package.
      5.   The pre-blast survey shall identify all existing damage, including
cracks in walls, floors and ceiling, cracks in and around windows, loose brick
and other defects found inside of and outside of buildings.
      6.   In addition to the information specified above, the applicant may be
required to furnish, at his own expense, such additional information as may be
required to evaluate the permit application. This may include, but is not
limited to, the submission of a report prepared by a geological or geophysical
engineer registered in the State of Arizona if the proposed blasting is to
occur in a geologically sensitive area.
      7.   Failure to provide the required information at the time of permit
application may cause the application to be returned to the contractor for
resubmittal.
Section 10-5-10 Blasting Site Permit Renewal
The contractor shall apply for blasting site permit renewal a minimum of two
work days prior to current permit expiration and shall follow the requirements
specified under "Blasting Site Permit," above. Permit fees for blasting permit
renewal shall be in accordance with the Carefree Fee Schedule.
Section 10-5-11 Conducting Blasting Operations
   A.   Any and all utility companies servicing the blasting area shall be
advised of the blasting operation a minimum of twenty-four hours prior to
conducting the blasting operation.
   B.   Prior to conducting any blasting operations, the contractor shall
request that the blasting area be blue-staked when buildings or structures are
located within a 300-foot radius of the proposed blast site.
   C.   Blasting operations shall be conducted on weekdays, between the hours
of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. No blasting operations shall be conducted at any
time on Saturday, Sunday or legal holidays, except by special written
permission of the town engineer or his authorized representative. The special
written permission shall be obtained by the contractor a minimum of two working
days prior to the proposed blasting date.
   D.   Explosive materials shall not be loaded into the ground until a valid
blasting operations permit, issued by the town engineer, is on site. This does
not, however, prohibit the drilling of holes.
   E.   The contractor shall provide and install signs reading "BLASTING ZONE
1000 FEET" and "TURN OFF 2-WAY RADIOS" on all roads within 1,000 feet of
blasting operations.
   F.   The Certificate of Fitness cardholder shall be in attendance at the
blast area when the explosive material is loaded into the ground and shall
remain in attendance until the blasting operation is completed.
   G.   Type II magazines shall be used for transporting explosive materials,
except blasting agents, from storage magazines to the blasting area.
   H.   The blasting contractor may be required to provide written notification
to the owner/occupant of each building or structure within a 300-foot radius of
the blast site. The notification shall be required a minimum of twenty-four
hours prior to a blasting operation.
   I.   Seismic and/or air blast monitoring shall be conducted when buildings
are located within a 300-foot radius of the blasting site. Prior to blasting,
contractor personnel monitoring seismic and/or air blasts, shall submit a
letter to the town engineer or his authorized representative documenting the
individuals who have received formal training on the equipment proposed to be
used, the company name who provided the training and the specific machine and
model number the personnel were trained on.
   J.   An accurate blasting log shall be maintained by the individual holding
the Certificate of Fitness to conduct blasting operations. The log shall
contain the town engineer permit number, the location of the blasting
operation, date and time of each blasting occurrence, the seismic and/or air
blast readings received, if applicable, and the name of the individual who
conducted the monitoring, if applicable, and any other pertinent information
required by the town engineer.
   K.   A current copy of the blasting log shall be available at the blast site
and at the contractor's office. A copy of the blasting log shall be submitted
to the town engineer within seven calendar days after the expiration of the
blasting permit or when requested by the town engineer or his authorized
representative.
   L.   Failure to submit the blasting log within the required time frame may
cause the town engineer or his authorized representative to discontinue permit
issuance.
   M.   Explosives materials shall not be left lying around or in unlocked
magazines where they may be accessible to children or unauthorized persons.
   N.   Empty containers which held explosive materials shall be removed from
the site at the end of each work day and disposed of properly. Empty containers
shall not be reused.
   O.   No explosive materials shall be left in the ground overnight.
   P.   After a blast, all wires shall be carefully traced and a search made
for any unexploded explosive materials.
   Q.   After waiting one hour, all misfires shall be investigated by the
Certificate of Fitness cardholder who shall determine the safe method of
disposal.
   R.   Blasting wires and any items or devices marked EXPLOSIVE or BLASTING
CAP shall be removed from the site at the end of each blasting day and disposed
of according to the manufacturers recommendations.
   S.   The mixing of blasting agent components is not permitted.
   T.   No person under the influence of intoxicants, narcotics or controlled
substances shall handle or use explosive materials in any manner.
   U.   Prior to the disposal of any explosive material, the manufacturer of
the product shall be consulted for most current product information and the
recommended method of disposal and/or destruction.
   V.   No explosive material shall be disposed of within the town limits.
Section 10-5-12 One-Day Supply of Explosive Materials On-Site
   A.   One-day supply of explosive materials shall be the quantity required to
conduct one day blasting operations only.
   B.   No explosive materials shall be stored overnight.
   C.   A one-day supply of explosive material shall be transported to the
blasting site in approved magazine(s).
   D.   Detonators shall not be stored with high explosives.
   E.   Explosive material storage shall be located a minimum of a 300-foot
radius from the blasting site.
   F.   At no time shall the explosive be left unattended.
Section 10-5-13 Temporary On-Site Explosive Material Storage Permit
   A.   A permit for temporary on-site explosive material storage shall be
applied for with the town engineer ten days prior to storing any explosive
material. Payment of the permit fee shall be made at time of application.
   B.   When approved by the town engineer or his authorized representative,
temporary storage of explosive materials may be permitted when in compliance
with the following requirements:
      1.   The maximum quantities of explosive materials permitted to be stored
on-site on a temporary basis shall not exceed the following quantities:
         High explosives      5,000 pounds
         Detonators         500 each
         Blasting agent         45,000 pounds or one semi trailer, whichever is
less
         Detonating Cord      2 spools; 1000 feet each spool
      2.   No explosive material storage shall be permitted within 500 feet of
an occupied building or structure, or in established residential zoning.
      3.   The location of storage magazines or semi-trailers used for the
storage of explosive materials shall be in accordance with the American Table
of Distances.
      4.   The location of storage magazines or semi-trailers used for the
storage of explosive materials shall be a minimum of 300 feet from the blasting
area.
      5.   Vegetation, brush and other combustible materials shall be
maintained clear for a distance of 50 feet from the storage magazines or semi-
trailers used for the storage of explosive materials.
      6.   Barricading shall be provided as specified in accordance with the
American Table of Distances.
      7.   An eight foot high security fence shall be installed around the
perimeter of the approved magazine(s) and/or semi-trailer storage site. The
fence shall be locked except when in the process of receiving or removing
explosive materials.
      8.   Twenty-four hour security shall be provided at the on-site explosive
material storage site at any time when blasting operations are not being
conducted. Contractor personnel, who are at least 21 years of age, may
constitute security when in attendance at the site. In the event of an
emergency, security shall meet responding emergency vehicles at the entrance to
the property.
   C.   Ten work days prior to storing any explosive materials on-site, the
contractor shall submit to the town engineer an accurate, to scale drawing (1"
to 100 feet) of the proposed storage area identifying the location of storage
and documenting compliance with the above requirements.
Section 10-5-14 Temporary On-Site Explosive Material Storage Permit Renewal
The contractor shall apply for temporary on-site explosive material storage
permit renewal a minimum of two work days prior to current permit expiration
and shall follow the requirements specified under "Temporary On-Site Explosive
Material Storage" above. Failure to renew the permit in the specified time
frame shall require that all explosive materials be removed to a pre-approved
site. The permit fee shall be paid at the time the permit application is
submitted to the town engineer.
CHAPTER 11 STREETS AND PUBLIC WAYS
Article 11-1   STREET EXCAVATION AND CONSTRUCTION IN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY *
   
11-1-1   Permit Required
   
11-1-2   Applications
   
11-1-3   Work Performed Without Permit
   
11-1-4   Emergencies
   
11-1-5   Manner in Which Work Shall Be Done
   
11-1-6   Inspection by Town
   
11-1-7   Permit Fees
   
11-1-8   Bond
   
11-1-9   Indemnity Provision and Insurance Required
   
11-1-10   Exception
   
11-1-11   Conflicting Work
   
11-1-12   Duty to Repairs Street
   
11-1-13   Defective Repair; Liability
   
11-1-14   Violations and Penalties
 
Notes
* *Ordinance 85-9 as amended by Ordinances 87-13, 89-12, 89-13 and 89-26 in
  part
Section 11-1-1 Permit Required
No person, corporation, firm or political subdivision (other than the Town of
Carefree) shall enter upon any public road, street, alley or way (collectively
referred to hereinafter as "public street") or upon the right-of-way of any
public street within the corporate boundaries of the town for the purpose of:
   A.   Performing any construction, reconstruction, installation, removal,
repair, maintenance or alternation of any pavement, curbs, gutters, driveways,
sidewalks, drainage or flood control facilities, water, gas, sewer or other
pipelines, irrigation and wastewater facilities, electric, television,
telephone, power and communication lines; temporary and permanent structures
and signs; plantings, landscaping, water or drainage systems, or decorative
placements; or
   B.   Grading, oiling, graveling or other surfacing of any road, street,
alley or way;
   without first having received a written permit from the town engineer for
such work.
Section 11-1-2 Applications
   A.   All applications for permits to perform the work described in Section
11-1-1 shall be in writing on such form as shall be prescribed by the town
engineer, unless waived in writing by the town engineer. The application shall
be submitted at least five working days prior to the start of construction, and
shall be accompanied by at least three copies of a drawing, map, blueprint,
diagram or similar exhibit sufficient to illustrate clearly the location,
dimension, method and purpose of the proposed work.
   B.   Applicants for such permit may be either an owner or a contractor.
However, the work may be performed only by a contractor, utility company,
governmental agency or, in situations where the property owner proposes to do
work between his property line and the back curb line, a resident owner of
residential property. If the improvement to be constructed under the permit is
not to become the property of the town and if the applicant is someone other
than the owner, the owner shall also sign the permit form indicating that he
agrees to the conditions of the permit.
   C.   Permits shall be issued only to the person, corporation, firm or
political subdivision making application therefor and may not be assigned. If
the permittee assigns or conveys his permit, the permit shall become void.
   D.   A permit shall be valid for one year from the date of issue or as
otherwise indicated on the permit, unless sooner cancelled. If work is not
completed within one year of the allotted time period, a new permit must be
obtained for all uncompleted work. If no work is performed after a permit is
obtained, the permittee may apply for a cancellation of the permit. If
approved, the fee, less a processing charge, shall be refunded to the
permittee.
Section 11-1-3 Work Performed Without Permit
If any work is undertaken prior to securing a permit therefor as required by
Section
11-1-1, the town engineer may require the public street to be restored to its
original condition prior to granting a permit, or may charge a fee of $500 for
investigation, inspection and examination of the work done prior to the
issuance of a permit, in addition to the permit. Upon order of the town
engineer, all work shall cease until the town engineer determines whether the
public street shall be restored to its original condition or a permit for all
past and proposed work shall be granted.
Section 11-1-4 Emergencies
This article shall not prevent any person, corporation, firm, association or
political subdivision from maintaining any pipe or conduit lawfully on or under
any public street, road, alley or right-of-way, or from making excavation as
may be necessary for the preservation of life or property when an urgent
necessity therefor arises during the hours during which the offices of the town
engineer are closed, except that those making emergency use shall apply for a
permit within one calendar day after said office is again open.
Section 11-1-5 Manner in Which Work Shall Be Done 1
Work done in the public streets shall be done in accordance with the permit and
the most recently approved Uniform Standard Specifications for Public Works
Construction with revisions sponsored ans distributed by the Maricopa
Association of Governments and with all other ordinances, rules and regulations
of the town applicable to such work. The town engineer may require, in the
public interest, such additional structures as designated by him to control
traffic properly, provide access to adjoining property and maintain other
facilities in the area.
 
Notes
1 *Amended by Ordinance 01-04
Section 11-1-6 Inspection by Town 1
The town engineer shall furnish to the applicants such inspection services as
will assure that the improvements are in accordance with the permits granted
and the specifications and details mentioned in this article, except that the
town engineer shall not be required to furnish inspection services with respect
to any water, gas or sewer mains, pipelines and facilities, or electric,
telephone, power or communications lines or facilities if, and to the extent
that the State of Arizona, a public service corporation or a political
subdivision of the State of Arizona other than the town is responsible under
any federal or state statute or regulation for the proper installation or
maintenance in safe operating condition of such mains, pipelines, lines or
facilities. Nothing herein shall be deemed to preclude the town from providing
such inspection services and taking such other action as is necessary to ensure
compliance with Section
11-1-12 with respect to any damage to the public street that occurs in
connection with the construction of such mains, pipelines, lines or facilities.
Any permittee doing work under any permit as set forth in this article shall
notify the town engineer at least one full working day in advance of the time
and place where the work will begin.
 
Notes
1 **Ordinance 89-12
Section 11-1-7 Permit Fees
The applicant shall also deposit with the town engineer, before any permit
shall be issued, a permit fee to cover the town's cost of inspection and
clerical services. The permit fee is established to offset the town's expenses
incurred in connection with processing permit applications and inspecting work
performed under the permits. The permit fee shall be computed on the basis of
the units of work or value of work and shall be in an amount to be determined
from time to time by resolution of the council.
Section 11-1-8 Bond
   A.   The town engineer shall require each applicant referred to in this
article, before granting the permit, to deposit with his office an amount in
cash or a performance bond equal to one hundred percent of the cost of the work
(as determined by the town engineer) proposed in the application as a guarantee
that the work will be completed in accordance with the permit and the town's
adopted or approved details and specifications. The town engineer shall give
the applicant a receipt for such a deposit. This bond or cash deposit shall not
be required where the work proposed in the permit application is also covered
by a bond posted pursuant to the provisions of the town of Carefree Subdivision
Ordinance.
   B.   The performance bond shall be in favor of the town. The bond shall be
signed by the applicant or the property owner, if he is not the applicant, as
principal, with a corporation duly authorized to transact surety business in
the state. The condition of the bond shall be that the applicant will
faithfully complete the work described in the application in accordance with
the plans, specifications and conditions thereof. The bond shall be released
upon satisfactory completion and acceptance of the work, or may be cancelled
after the applicant has provided other security satisfactory to the town which
will cover the obligations that remain.
   C.   No deposit shall be less than fifty dollars on work done under this
article.
   D.   In instances where an applicant is issued numerous small permits
throughout the year, he may post a continuing bond to cover work under more
than one permit. However, this continuing bond provision is not intended for
use on new subdivision type work. The continuing bond shall be of a value
sufficient to cover all work under construction by the permittee at any time
and shall be satisfactory to the town engineer.
   E.   The bond is subject to cancellation as noted above, or may be
terminated after all obligations are fulfilled which are "permitted" prior to
the town engineer receiving cancellation notice from surety.
   F.   Arizona public service corporations, as defined by A.R.S. Section 40-
201 et seq., with assets of one hundred million dollars or more, as evidenced
by the most recent annual report filed with the Arizona Corporation Commission,
may deposit with the town engineer a Letter of Responsibility in lieu of the
performance bond required in this section. The letter shall be to the town and
signed by a duly authorized representative of the corporation. The letter shall
obligate the applicant to complete faithfully the work described in the
application in accordance with the plans, specifications and conditions
thereof.
Section 11-1-9 Indemnity Provision and Insurance Required
   A.   The permittee agrees to indemnify and save harmless the town and its
elected or appointed officers, agents, boards, commissions, employees and
representatives from all suits, including attorneys' fees and costs of
litigation, actions, laws, damage, expense, cost or claims, of any character or
of any nature arising out of or in connection with any act or omission of the
permittee, his agents and employees, and of any subcontractor, his agents and
employees, in the course of the performance of the work under permit which
results directly or indirectly in the injury to or death of any person or
persons or the damage of any property of any person or persons, or on account
of any act, claim or amount arising or recovered under workers' compensation
law, or arising out of any failure of the permittee or those acting under
permittee to conform to any statutes, ordinances, regulations, laws or court
decrees. It is the intent of the permittee and the town that the town shall, in
all instances, be indemnified by the permittee against all liability, losses
and damages of any nature whatever for or on account of any injuries to or
death of persons or damages to or destruction of property belonging to any
person arising out of or in any way connected with the performance of this
permit, whether the liability, loss or damages caused by, or alleged to be
caused in whole or in part by the negligence, gross negligence or fault of the
town or of its officers, agents or employees.
   B.   The permittee shall take out and maintain during the life of the permit
workers' compensation insurance for all of his employees employed at the site
of the project, and, in case any work is sublet, the permittee shall require
the subcontractor similarly to provide workers' compensation insurance for all
the latter's employees unless such employees are covered by the protection
afforded by the permittee. In case any class of employees engaged in hazardous
work under this contract at the site of the project is not protected under the
workers' compensation statute, the permittee shall provide, and shall cause
each subcontractor to provide, protection equal to that required by law for the
protection of his employees not otherwise protected.
   C.   Except as hereinafter provided, no applicant shall be entitled to a
permit under this article unless and until he procures, maintains and delivers
to the town engineer a certificate of insurance covering public liability and
property damage issued by an insurance company authorized to transact business
in the state, as shall protect the applicant or contractor and any
subcontractor performing any work covered by the permit from claims for damages
for personal injury, including death, as well as from claims for property
damages which may arise from or be related to operations under the permit, or
by anyone directly or indirectly employed by any of the foregoing. Such
insurance shall contain coverage for explosions, collapse and underground
operations. Such insurance shall be primary and provide coverage for all
liability assumed by the applicant under this section. The policy limits of
such liability insurance shall contain not less than the following limits of
coverage:
      1.   Five hundred thousand dollars for death or bodily injury or loss
sustained by any one person per occurrence;
      2.   One million dollars for death or bodily injury or loss sustained by
more than one person per occurrence;
      3.   Five hundred thousand dollars for loss sustained by damage or loss
to property occasioned per occurrence.
   D.   Failure by the applicant to provide the town engineer with a
certificate of insurance, and failure by the town engineer to demand the
delivery by permittee of such a certificate before a permit is issued, shall
not be deemed to waive permittee's obligation to provide the insurance
specified in this section. The permittee shall maintain said insurance in full
force and effect until all work is complete and the permit has been released.
Where an encroachment involves a permanent obstruction, the insurance
requirements shall remain in effect until such obstruction is removed. The
insurance policy shall not be cancelled or changed without first providing
fifteen days written notice of such action to the town engineer.
Section 11-1-10 Exception
No insurance policy or performance bond shall be required as a condition
precedent to the issuance of a permit to a resident owner of a residential
property where he proposes to perform construction in front of his own property
or a federal, state, county or municipal agency or political subdivision.
Section 11-1-11 Conflicting Work
No permit shall be issued for work within a right-of-way in which a contractor
is engaged in a town road project without written permission from the
contractor accompanying the application for the permit.
Section 11-1-12 Duty to Repair Street
It shall be the duty of every person, corporation, firm, association or
political subdivision working in the public right-of-way to restore and repair
the same in accordance with town standards and specifications and in such
manner that it is returned as nearly as practicable to its original condition
and to maintain such restoration and repair for a period of not less than one
year after its completion.
Section 11-1-13 Defective Repair; Liability
   A.   Any person, corporation, firm, association or political subdivision who
fails, neglects or refuses to repair or maintain the repair to the public
street as required by Section
11-1-12 shall be given a written notice by the town engineer to repair the
public street. Such notice shall contain a brief statement of the violations
and the name, address and phone number of a town representative who may be
contacted for further information. The notice shall further inform such persons
that failure to comply with the notice within the stated time will cause the
town to perform such work with the costs of such work and related
administrative charges being billed to the person notified at twice the town's
out-of-pocket costs that will be incurred.
   B.   The town engineer shall have the authority to determine the date of
completion of the initial repair and whether or not the repair has been
satisfactorily maintained for a period of one year. In determining whether or
not a repair has been satisfactorily maintained, the town engineer shall apply
normal engineering practice for the type of street, road, alley or way in
question and such other applicable standards as are on file with the town
engineer's office.
   C.   When any person to whom notice has been given fails, neglects or
refuses to repair or maintain the public street by the date set for compliance
in the notice, the town engineer or his duly authorized representative shall
repair or maintain the public street and do such other action as necessary to
abate the failure to repair the public street. Upon completion of the work, the
person who was given notice and failed to repair or maintain the public street
within the time period set in the notice shall become liable to pay to the
town, as liquidated damages and not as a penalty, a sum equal to twice the out-
of-pocket costs incurred by the town for the repairs set forth in the notice.
Such out-of-pocket costs shall include all materials, labor and tooling charges
at the rates actually paid therefor, but not any amount for overhead or
administration.
Section 11-1-14 Violations and Penalties *
Any person upon admission or conviction of violating any provision of this
article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not
to exceed one thousand two hundred fifty dollars or by imprisonment for a
period not to exceed ninety days, or both such fine and imprisonment. Each day
that a violation continues shall be a separate offense punishable as
hereinabove described.
 
Notes
* *Amended by Ordinance 2022-01
Article 11-2   VACATING PUBLIC ROADS, ALLEYS AND WAYS 1  
   
11-2-1   Application; Fee
   
11-2-2   Notice of Hearing
   
11-2-3   Notice to Utilities and Abutters
   
11-2-4   Hearing and Recommendation of Planning and Zoning Commission
   
11-2-5   Vacation of Any Street, Alley or Public Easement
   
11-2-6   Disposition of Property Underlying Vacated Property
 
Notes
1 *Ordinance 86-15
Section 11-2-1 Application; Fee
   A.   The town engineer, on behalf of the town, or any other resident or land
owner of the town, may apply to the council for the vacation by the town of all
or any portion of any public street, alley or easement located within the town.
   B.   All such applications for vacation shall be submitted to the town clerk
and shall contain the following information:
      1.   An accurate legal description of the street, alley or easement, or
portion thereof, sought to be vacated.
      2.   The names and addresses of all affected public utilities and of all
residents and land owners abutting upon the roadway proposed to be vacated.
      3.   A complete, written explanation by the applicant with regard to why
the vacation is sought.
   C.   At the time of filing an application for vacation of a public street,
alley or easement, the applicant, if other than the town engineer on behalf of
the town, shall pay a fee of five hundred dollars to cover the legal and
administrative costs incurred by the town in processing the application for
vacation.
Section 11-2-2 Notice of Hearing
   A.   Upon receipt of a complete application for vacation, the town clerk
shall cause to be published and posted a notice of public hearings upon said
application to be held before the planning and zoning commission and the
council. Publication shall be made at least once in any newspaper of general
circulation within the town at least fifteen days prior to the hearing before
the planning and zoning commission, and posting shall be made not later than
the required date for publication. Notice shall be posted beside the roadway
sought to be vacated at intervals of not less than every three hundred feet
thereof.
   B.   All of the notices shall contain the nature of the request, a legal
description of the property to be vacated, the time and place of hearing and a
statement that anyone wishing to protest the proposed vacation may do so at the
hearing in person or by writing.
   C.   Publication and posting of the notices of hearings before the planning
and zoning commission and the council shall be made simultaneously.
Section 11-2-3 Notice to Utilities and Abutters
Prior to the required dates for publication and posting, the town clerk shall
cause to be mailed copies of the notices required to be published and posted
pursuant to Section
11-2-2 to all affected public utilities, residents and land owners identified
in the application and referred to in subsection B, paragraph 2 of Section
11-2-1.
Section 11-2-4 Hearing and Recommendation of Planning and Zoning Commission
After its public hearing, noticed pursuant to Section
11-2-2, the planning and zoning commission shall make a recommendation to the
council with respect to whether the application for vacation should be approved
or disapproved, in whole or in part.
Section 11-2-5 Vacation of Any Street, Alley or Public Easement
After its public hearing, noticed pursuant to Section
11-2-2, the council may, by resolution duly adopted, vacate any street, alley
or public easement located within the town and close it to public use upon the
effective date of the resolution. Upon passage of the resolution of vacation,
such vacation shall become final, and the town clerk shall be authorized to
provide any one with a copy of said resolution.
Section 11-2-6 Disposition of Property Underlying Vacated Property
In any resolution of vacation, the council shall provide for the disposition of
any property underlying any vacated street, alley or public easement where any
interest therein is owned by the town, in accordance with the requirements of
Arizona law.
Article 11-3   POSTING OF SIGNS IN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY; PERMITS  *
   
11-3-1   Prohibition of Signs in Town Rights-of-Way except as Allowed by this
Article
   
11-3-2   Posting of Political Signs in the Town Rights-of-Way Permitted
   
11-3-3   Regulations Pertaining to Posting of Other Signs
   
11-3-4   Forfeiture of Unauthorized Sign Discovered in Rights-of-Way
   
11-3-5   Violations and Penalties
 
Notes
* *Ordinance 89-18
Section 11-3-1 Prohibition of Signs in Town Rights-of-Way except as Allowed by
this Article **
   A.   No person or political subdivision (other than the Town of Carefree)
shall erect, place or post any sign within any public right-of-way belonging to
the town except as specifically authorized by this article.
   B.   "Sign" for purposes of this article, shall mean any device providing
identification, advertising or directional information for a business, service,
product, person, organization, place, or building. Included in this definition
of signs are graphic devices such as logos and attention-attracting items such
as banners or logo sculptures, and obtrusive colored fascia.
 
Notes
** **Modified by Ordinance 01-01
Section 11-3-2 Posting of Political Signs in the Town Rights-of-Way Permitted 1
   A.   A political sign is allowed to be placed in the Town of Carefree public
right-of-way if all of the following conditions are met:
      1.   The sign supports or opposes a candidate for public office or
supports or opposes a ballot measure.
      2.   The sign shall be located in the public right-of-way only during the
period commencing 60 days before a primary election and ending 15 days after
the general election, except that, for a sign for a candidate in a primary
election who does not advance to the general election, the period ends 15 days
after the primary election. The person or political subdivision responsible for
erecting the sign shall be liable for removal of the sign.
      3.   The sign shall not be placed in a location that is hazardous to
public safety, obstructs clear vision in the area and/or interferes with the
requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 United States Code
sections 12101 through 12213 and 47 United States Code sections 225 and 611).
      4.   If the sign is located in an area zoned for residential use, the
sign shall have a maximum area of 16 square feet. If the sign is located in any
other area, the sign shall have a maximum area of 32 square feet.
      5.   The sign shall contain the name and telephone number of the
candidate and/or campaign committee contact person.
   B.   If the town deems that the placement of a political sign constitutes an
emergency, it may immediately relocate the sign. The town shall notify the
candidate or campaign committee that placed the sign within 24 hours after the
relocation. If a sign is placed in violation of subsection A and the placement
is not deemed to constitute an emergency, the town may notify the candidate or
campaign committee that placed the sign of the violation. If the sign remains
in violation at least 24 hours after the town notified the candidate or
campaign committee, the town may remove the sign. The town shall contact the
candidate or campaign committee contact and shall retain the sign for at least
ten business days to allow the candidate or campaign committee to retrieve the
sign without penalty.
   C.   A town employee acting within the scope of his/her employment is not
liable for an injury caused by the failure to remove a sign pursuant to
subsection B unless the employee intended to cause injury or was grossly
negligent.
   D.   No sign is allowed on any structure owned by the town.
   E.   Subsection A does not apply to rights-of-way located within the
commercial tourism and commercial resort sign free zones listed below and
established in Carefree Resolution 2012-01:
      1.   Zone 1:
         (a)   Tom Darlington Drive from the southern town limits to Cave Creek
Road
         (b)   Cave Creek Road from the western town limits to the eastern town
limits
         (c)   Cave Creek Road from Carefree Highway to the northern town
limits
         (d)   Pima Road from Stagecoach Pass to Cave Creek Road
         (e)   Stagecoach Pass from Tom Darlington Drive to Mule Train Road
         (f)   Mule Train Road from Stagecoach Pass to Carefree Drive
         (g)   Carefree Drive from Easy Street to Mule Train Road
         (h)   Tranquil Trail from Cave Creek Road to Carefree Drive
      (2)   Zone 2: rights-of-way within the area bounded by and including Tom
Darlington Drive, Cave Creek Road, and Bloody Basin Road.
 
Notes
1 ***Repealed by Ordinance 2008-01, Ordinance 2012-01
Section 11-3-3 Regulations Pertaining to Posting of Other Signs 1
A person may erect, place or post in the town rights-of-way temporary "Open
House" signs subject to the following provisions:
   A.   Such "Open House" signs conform with the format, content and posting
requirements of Section 8.03(12)(K) of the 2004 Amended Zoning Ordinance for
the Town of Carefree, or any successor provision.
 
Notes
1 *Amended by Ordinance 2013-07 and 2016-02
Section 11-3-4 Forfeiture of Unauthorized Sign Discovered in Rights-of-Way
Any sign erected, posted or placed in any town right-of-way in contravention of
this article is hereby declared to be contraband and upon discovery thereof
shall be immediately seized by any town employee or official finding the same.
Section 11-3-5 Violations and Penalties *
Any person upon admission or conviction of violating any provision of this
article shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor and shall be punished by a
fine not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars, by imprisonment for a
period not to exceed six months in jail, by a term of probation not to exceed
three years, or by any combination of such fine, imprisonment and probation.
Each day that a violation continues shall be a separate offense punishable as
hereinbefore prescribed.
 
Notes
* Amended by Ordinance 2022-01
Article 11-4   Street Excavation and Construction in Private Streets and Public
Utility Easements *
   A.   All street excavation and construction in private streets and public
utility easements including construction, reconstruction, installation,
removal, repair, maintenance or alteration of any pavement, curbs, gutters,
drainage or flood control devices, water, gas, sewer or other pipelines,
irrigation and waste water facilities, electric, television, telephone, power
and communication lines, shall be done in accordance with the most recently
approved Uniform Standard Specifications for Public Works Construction with
revisions sponsored and distributed by the Maricopa Association of Governments
and with all other ordinances, rules and regulations of the Town applicable to
such work.
   B.   It shall be the duty of every person, corporation, firm, utility
company, contractor, association or political subdivision working in private
streets and public utility easements to restore and repair the same in such
manner that it is returned as nearly as practicable to its original condition
and to maintain such restoration and repair for a period of not less than one
year after its completion. Except in cases of emergency and for single customer
connections, prior to performing any street excavation and construction in
private streets and public utility easements, the person or entity responsible
for the work shall notify the owner of the property in writing at least sixty
(60) days in advance of any work providing a reasonable description of the work
to be accomplished, the estimated period of time to complete such work, and the
name, address and telephone number of the person, corporation, firm or
political subdivision performing the work.
   C.   Prior to commencing any such work, the person or entity responsible for
performing the work will procure and maintain a certificate of insurance
covering liability and property damage issued by an insurance company
authorized to transact business in the State of Arizona, as shall protect the
person or entity responsible for performing the work from claims for damages
for personal injury, including death, as well as from claims for property
damages which may arise from or be related to the work or by anyone directly or
indirectly employed by any of the foregoing. Such insurance shall contain
coverage for explosions, collapse and underground operations. Such insurance
shall be primary and shall provide coverage for all liability under this
section. The policy limits of such liability and property damage insurance
shall contain not less than the following limits of coverage: (1) $1 million
for death or bodily injury or loss sustained by anyone person per occurrence;
(2) $2 million for death or bodily injury or loss sustained by more than one
person per occurrence; (3) $1 million for loss sustained for damage to property
occasioned per occurrence. Such insurance shall be maintained in full force and
effect until all work is complete.
   D.   Any person upon admission or conviction of violating any provision of
this Article shall be guilty of a Class One misdemeanor and shall be punished
by a fine not to exceed Two Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($2,500.00), by
imprisonment for a period not to exceed six (6) months, by a term of probation
not to exceed three (3) years, or by any combination of such fine, imprisonment
and probation.
 
Notes
* *Ordinance 03-03
CHAPTER 12 ZONING AND SUBDIVISIONS
Article 12-1   RESERVED
Article 12-2   SUBDIVISIONS
That certain document entitled the Town of Carefree 2011 Subdivision Ordinance
adopted by Ordinance 2011-07 and the amendments thereto including but not
limited to Ordinance 2012-03 and 2015-03 is hereby ratified and made a part of
this code the same as if specifically reenacted hereby. At least three copies
of said code and amendments shall be kept on file in the office of the town
clerk.
CHAPTER 13 CABLE TELEVISION
Article 13-1   CABLE TELEVISION CODE *    
   A.   The Cable Television Code for the Town of Carefree shall be adopted as
referenced in §§ 9-1401 through 9-1452.
   B.   The license fee shall be 5% of gross revenue that video service
provider receives from its subscribers located with the Town of Carefree as
prescribed by Arizona Revised Statutes §§ 9-1442 through § 9-1443.
 
Notes
* Ordinance 2019-02
CHAPTER 14 FIRE PREVENTION
Article 14-1   GENERAL PROVISIONS *
   
14-1-1   Fire Protection Services
 
Notes
* *Ordinance 2007-02
Section 14-1-1 Fire Protection Services
From and after the effective date of the adoption of Ordinance 2007-02, the
Town of Carefree, Arizona shall provide fire protection and emergency medical
services to all of its residents within its incorporated boundaries, as they
exist now or as they may be amended from time to time by operation of law in
the future.
CHAPTER 15 TOWN PROPERTY TAX
Article 15-1 GENERAL PROVISIONS *
   
15-1-1   Property tax proposals
   
15-1-2   Property tax or increase
 
Notes
* *Approved by Voters on 3-8-2011
Section 15-1-1 Property tax proposals.
An affirmative vote of two-thirds of the members of the Carefree Common Council
is required to present any property tax proposal to the registered voters of
the town.
Section 15-1-2 Property tax or increase.
A majority vote of the registered voters of the Town of Carefree voting on the
issue is required before any Carefree Town property tax or increase in existing
Carefree Town property tax previously approved by the Carefree voters shall be
enacted.
CHAPTER 16 ZONING
Article 16-1 ZONING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE
   
16-1-1   Zoning Code adopted by reference
   
App. A   Zoning Code
Section 16-1-1   Zoning Code adopted by reference.
The town adopts in full the Zoning Code found in Appendix A to this chapter, as
it may be amended from time to time.
APPENDIX A
ZONING CODE
Article I.   PURPOSE, TITLE, SEVERABILITY CLAUSE, REPEAL OF CONFLICTING
ORDINANCES, VIOLATION, PENALTY, AND EFFECTIVE DATE
   Section
1.01   Purpose of this Zoning Ordinance
   Section
1.02   Short Title
   Section
1.03   Severability Clause
   Section
1.04   Repeal of Conflicting Ordinance
   Section
1.05   Violation
   Section
1.06   Penalty
   Section
1.07   Interpretation
   Section
1.08   Effective Date
Article II.   RULES AND DEFINITIONS
   Section
2.01   General Rules For Construction Of Language
   Section
2.02   Definitions
Article III.   ADMINISTRATION
   Section
3.01   Zoning Administrator
   Section
3.02   Planning and Zoning Commission
   Section
3.03   Development Review Board
   Section
3.04   Board of Adjustment (Ord. #2013-02)
   Section
3.05   Neighborhood Unit Plan of Development
   Section
3.06   Residential Unit Plan of Development
   Section
3.07   Special Use Permit (Ord. #2006-05)
   Section
3.08   Conditional Use Permit (Ord. #2006-05)
   Section
3.09   Special Event Permits (Ord. #2006-05)
   Section
3.10   Amendments to the Zoning Ordinance
   Section
3.11   Zoning Clearance and Building Permit
Article IV.   ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
   Section
4.01   Zoning Districts
   Section
4.02   Boundary Lines
   Section
4.03   Boundary Determination
   Section
4.04   Public Way Vacation
   Section
4.05   Lands Not Previously Zoned
   Section
4.06   Lands Previously Zoned By Other Jurisdictions
Article V.   USES PERMITTED IN EACH ZONING DISTRICT AND ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS
AND CLARIFICATIONS FOR USES PERMITTED IN EACH ZONING DISTRICT
   Section
5.01   Uses Permitted In Each Zoning District (Ord. #2006-05)
   Section
5.02   Additional Requirements and Clarifications (Ord. #2006-05)
   Section
5.03   Uses Permitted and Additional Requirements for the Open Space-
Recreation (OS-R) Zoning District. (Ord. #2013-01)
Article VI.   INTENSITY SCHEDULE AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
   Section
6.01   Intensity Schedule and Development Standards
   Section
6.02   Additional Requirements and Clarifications
Article VII.   PARKING REQUIREMENTS
   Section
7.01   Parking Requirement Table
   Section
7.02   Additional Requirements and Clarifications
   Section
7.03   General Requirements
   Section
7.04   Location of Required Parking Spaces
   Section
7.05   Joint Use Parking
   Section
7.06   Design Standards for Required Parking
   Section
7.07   Mixed Uses
   Section
7.08   Loading and Unloading Regulations
   Section
7.09   Joint Use
Article VIII.   SIGNS PERMITTED
   Section
8.01   Definitions
   Section
8.02   Signs Permitted in each Zoning District
      NOTE: POLITICAL SIGNS – see Section
8.06 Signs Exempt from Regulation
   Section
8.03   Additional Requirements and Clarifications
   Section
8.04   General Regulations
   Section
8.05    Prohibited Signs
   Section
8.06   Signs Exempt from Regulation
   Section
8.07   Nonconforming Signs
   Section
8.08   Comprehensive Sign Plans
Article IX.    GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Section
9.01   Applying General Provisions
   Section
9.02   Accessory Buildings and Uses
   Section
9.03   Number of Principal Buildings on a Lot
   Section
9.04   Additional Yard And Open Space
   Section
9.05   Solar Collector
   Section
9.06   Storage of Refuse and Refuse Containers
   Section
9.07   Screening Mechanical Equipment
   Section
9.08   Retaining Walls
   Section
9.09   Fences and Free-Standing Walls
   Section
9.10   Grading and Drainage
   Section
9.11   Driveways
   Section
9.12   Exterior Lighting
   Section
9.13   Landscaping
Article X.   MOUNTAINSIDE DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
   Section
10.01   Introduction
   Section
10.02   Purpose
   Section
10.03   Identification of Mountainside Slopes and Environmentally Sensitive
Features
   Section
10.04   Criteria for Development Review Evaluation
   Section
10.05   Appeals
   Section
10.06   Development Standards
Article XI.   NONCONFORMING USES
   Section
11.01   General
   Section
11.02   Nonconforming Buildings, Structures, and Uses
   Section
11.03   Nonconforming Lots
   Section
11.04   Development Standards
Article I.   PURPOSE, TITLE, SEVERABILITY CLAUSE, REPEAL OF CONFLICTING
ORDINANCES,
VIOLATION, PENALTY, AND EFFECTIVE DATE
Section 1.01   Purpose of this Zoning Ordinance
   (1)   To conserve and promote the public health, safety, and general welfare
by regulating the use of buildings, structures, and land and the intensity of
land use for agriculture, residence, commercial, industry, and other purposes.
   (2)   To implement the adopted Town of Carefree General Plan.
Section 1.02   Short Title
   (1)   This Ordinance may be cited as "The 2004 Amended Zoning Ordinance for
the Town of Carefree."
Section 1.03   Severability Clause
   (1)   Should any provision of this Ordinance be held to be unconstitutional
or invalid, such action shall not apply to the Ordinance as a whole, and to
this end the provisions of this Ordinance are declared to be severable so that
all parts of the Ordinance not expressly declared to be invalid or
unconstitutional shall continue in full force and effect.
Section 1.04   Repeal of Conflicting Ordinance
   (1)   All Ordinances or portions of Ordinances in conflict with this
Ordinance, or inconsistent with the regulations of this Ordinance, are hereby
repealed to the extent necessary to give this Ordinance full force and effect.
Section 1.05   Violation
   (1)   If any building, structure, land, or landscaping is used or proposed
to be used or erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired,
converted, or maintained in violation of the provisions of this Ordinance, the
Town may use any one of the following actions to prevent or abate violation:
      (A)   Issue an order of abatement.
      (B)   Issue a Notice and Order to Comply.
      (C)   Pursue criminal prosecution.
      (D)   Issue a civil citation.
      (E)   Seek an injunction from Superior Court.
Section 1.06   Penalty
   (1)   Anyone violating any provision of this Ordinance shall, upon
conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than two thousand five hundred
dollars ($2,500.00), by imprisonment in a designated place of confinement for a
term not exceeding six (6) months, by a term of probation not exceeding three
(3) years, or by any combination of such fine, imprisonment, and probation.
   (2)   It is a separate offense for each and every day the violation is
committed, continued, or permitted.
   (3)   The imposition of any sentence or fine shall not exempt the offender
from compliance with the requirements of this Ordinance.
   (4)   The owner, lessee, tenant, and/or other person in possession of the
property or use in violation are all and equally responsible for the violation
(s).
   (5)   In addition, the Town may bring civil proceedings in a court of
competent jurisdiction to enforce compliance with this ordinance including the
prevention, restraining, and/or abatement of the violation(s).
   (6)   In addition, any violation is declared to be a public nuisance and the
Town may enjoin or restrain said violation like any other nuisance under
authority of any applicable Town or State law.
Section 1.07   Interpretation
   (1)   In interpreting and applying the regulations of this Ordinance, the
regulations shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of
the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (2)   It is not intended by this Ordinance to interfere with, abrogate, or
annul any Ordinance, rules, or regulations adopted before the effective date of
this Ordinance and not in conflict with any of the regulations of this
Ordinance, except, if this Ordinance imposes a greater restriction, this
Ordinance shall control.
   (3)   Nor is it intended by this Ordinance to interfere with, abrogate, or
annul any vested property rights, permits issued by the Town or any easements,
covenants or other agreements between the Town and third parties entered into,
adopted, and executed before the effective date of this Ordinance.
Section 1.08   Effective Date
   (1)   This amended ordinance shall become effective on the 5th day of
December, 2013.
Article II.   RULES AND DEFINITIONS
Section 2.01   General Rules For Construction Of Language
   (1)   Words in this Ordinance shall be interpreted as follows:
         1)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense; words
used in the future tense include the present tense; the singular includes the
plural; the plural includes the singular.
      (B)   The word "may" is permissive; the words "shall" and "will" are
mandatory.
      (C)   The word "person" includes a corporation, company, partnership,
firm, association, or society, as well as a natural person. The word “person”
also includes the United States, the State of Arizona, and any political
subdivision thereof A. R. S. § 1-215 (29).
      (D)   The following words can be used interchangeably:
         1)   Lot, plot, parcel, or premises.
         2)   "Uses" or "occupied".
         3)   "Dwelling", "residence"; or "building".
      (E)   The term "Town" shall mean the Town of Carefree.
      (F)   "Council" shall mean the Town Council.
      (G)   "Commission" shall mean the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      (H)   “DRB” shall mean the Development Review Board.
      (I)   "Board" shall mean the Board of Adjustment.
Section 2.02   Definitions
   (1)   ACCESS: The place, means, or way by which vehicles and pedestrians
shall have safe, adequate, and usable physical and legal ingress/egress to and
from a property. The physical and legal access shall be one and the same,
unless otherwise approved by the Zoning Administrator.
   (2)   ACRE: 43,560 square feet.
   (3)   ADULT ORIENTED FACILITIES including the following:
      (A)   Adult Bookstore;
         1)   Having as a substantial portion of its stock in trade, novelties,
devices, books, pictures, magazines, and other periodicals depicting,
describing, or relating to "specified sexual activities" or which are
characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to
"specified anatomical areas."
         2)   Having as a substantial portion of its stock in trade, books,
magazines, and other periodicals, and which excludes all minors from the
premises or a section thereof.
      (B)   Adult Live Entertainment Establishment is an establishment which
features topless or bottomless dancers, go-go dancers, exotic dancers,
strippers, or similar entertainers.
      (C)   Adult Theater is an enclosed building or open-air drive-in theater
regularly used for presenting any film or plate positive film or videotape
designed to be projected on a screen or otherwise displayed for exhibition, or
films, glass slides, or transparencies, either in negative or positive form,
designed for exhibit by projection on a screen or holographic projections or
other methods known or to become known for projection or display, depicting,
describing, or related to "specified sexual activities" or characterized by
emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to "specified anatomical
areas," which regularly excludes all minors.
      (D)   A Massage Establishment that is not located in an office associated
with a physician, chiropractor, podiatrist, medical office, beauty salon,
resort, or health club where any person, firm, association, or corporation
engages in or carries on or permits to be engaged in or carried on any massage
activities identical or similar to massage therapy as defined herein.
   (4)   AMENDMENT: A change in the wording, layout, or format of this
Ordinance or any change in the district boundaries or classifications upon the
zoning district map.
   (5)   AIRPORT: An approved landing area used by aircraft.
      (A)   Helipad: An area on a heliport established for the landing or take-
off of helicopters.
      (B)   Heliport: An approved landing area for the sole use of helicopters.
A heliport may include more than one helipad.
      (C)   Landing Area: Any approved area which is used or intended to be
used for the landing and take-off of aircraft.
   (6)   ALLEY: A public way other than a street which provides a secondary
means of legal vehicular access to abutting property.
   (7)   AS-BUILT PLANS: Certification that a project is built in accordance
with a lawfully issued permit. A registered professional architect, engineer,
or surveyor shall certify the actual construction.
   (8)   ASSISTED CARE FACILITY: A residential care institution (facility)
subject to licensing by the State of Arizona that provides choices and varying
levels of personal and health related services including, supervisory care,
personal care, or custodial care services. (Ord. #2006-05)
   (9)   BED AND BREAKFAST: A single family-dwelling where the owners provide
temporary lodging including breakfast to guests for compensation.
   (10)   BOARDING HOUSE: A building where lodging is provided for three (3) or
more persons but not exceeding twenty (20) persons.
   (11)   BRAIDED STREAM: A shallow stream (with a large width/depth ratio)
within which the normal flow passes through a number of smaller interlaced
channels separated by bars or shoals.
   (12)   BUILDABLE AREA: The portion of a lot which is within the area formed
by the required yard (building setbacks) or within the building envelope in the
case where a building envelope has been established.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0003cd82274f329442d59f15d9f1a278f471274/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1451.png]
 
Figure 2.1: Illustration of buildable area.
   (13)   BUILDING: A permanent structure having a roof supported by columns or
walls.
   (14)   BUILDING, ACCESSORY: A detached structure which is subordinate to and
incidental to the main use of the principal structure on the same lot.
Accessory structures must be located in the building envelope and shall comply
with the applicable sections of this Ordinance.
   (15)   BUILDING ENVELOPE: The portion of a lot within the buildable area
that may be disturbed as illustrated and is recorded in association with a
final plat.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0003cd82274f329442d59f15d9f1a278f471274/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1453.png]
 
Figure 2.2: Illustration of building envelope.
   (16)   BUILDING, HEIGHT: The vertical distance of a building or structure
measured from the structure’s design grade, at any individual point within the
building footprint, to the highest point of a roof or parapet. (Ord. 2016-04)
   (17)   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A building which houses the principal use of the
lot.
   (18)   BUILDING SETBACK (required yard): The horizontal distance prescribed
per zoning district measured from the property line towards the center of the
property. This open space shall be unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion
of a structure from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided in this
Ordinance. In order to maintain the community’s native desert character and
identity, no non-native shrubs, plants or trees shall be planted within any
building setback. Where the existing desert vegetation is sparse native,
drought tolerant and/or desert hybrid shrubs, trees and/or cacti may be planted
within the building setback but shall not create a structure as defined in this
Ordinance. (Ord.#2007-05)
   (19)   CAMPER: A camper is a structure designed for occupancy as a dwelling
or sleeping place by one (1) or more persons, which may be placed upon or
attached to a vehicle.
   (20)   CARPORT: A permanent roofed structure with two (2) or more open sides
used or intended to be used for motorized vehicle shelter.
   (21)   CEMETERY: A place for the burial of the remains of deceased humans
either below ground or in a mausoleum or other structure above ground.
   (22)   CONSERVATION EASEMENT: A permanent open space granted to the Town or
to a public trust to prohibit development of property including roads and
utilities and to retain and preserve the undisturbed land for the scenic
enjoyment of the general public.
   (23)   CONTINUING CARE RETIREMENT COMMUNITY: A community subject to
licensing by the State of Arizona which offers several levels of assistance,
including independent living, assisted living and nursing home care. (Ord.
#2006-05)
   (24)   CONVALESCENT HOME OR NURSING HOME: Any place or institution, licensed
by the State of Arizona as a convalescent or nursing home, which makes
provisions for bed care, chronic care, or convalescent care for one or more
persons who by reason of illness or physical infirmity are unable to properly
care for themselves. This does not include home care by relatives. A nursing
home typically provides 24-hour skilled care for the more acute patients. (Ord.
#2006-05)
   (25)   DESIGN GRADE: The lowest finished floor grade of an existing or
proposed building or structure. (Ord. #2016-04)
   (26)   DETENTION BASIN: A reservoir where water is stored for regulating a
flood and having outlets for releasing the flows during a flood event.
   (27)   DEVELOPMENT: A man-made change to property, such as buildings or
other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, or
drilling operations.
   (28)   DISTURBED AREA: The total area of grading or other disturbance of
natural terrain and vegetation typically occurring within a building envelope.
   (29)   DRIVEWAY: A vehicular access way that serves a single principal use
or parcel.
   (30)   DWELLING, MULTIPLE -FAMILY: A building containing three (3) or more
housekeeping units. (Ord. #2016-06)
   (31)   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building designed for occupancy by one (1)
housekeeping unit. (Ord. #2016-06)
   (32)   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building designed for occupancy by two (2)
housekeeping units in separate and distinct quarters. (Ord. #2016-06)
   (33)   DWELLING UNIT: A building or portion thereof containing cooking
accommodations and designed or used exclusively for residential occupancy by a
single housekeeping unit.
   (34)   FACTORY-BUILT BUILDING: A residential or nonresidential building
including a dwelling unit or habitable room thereof which is either wholly or
in substantial part manufactured at an off-site location to be assembled on-
site, except for a manufactured home or recreation vehicle as defined by this
Ordinance. A factory-built building shall be erected on a permanent foundation
in accordance with the Uniform Building Code (UBC) as adopted by the Town.
   (35)   FLOOD PLAIN: The portion of a watercourse, outside of the stream
channel but adjacent to it, which is described by the perimeter of the probable
limiting flood. It is the land which is not covered by the stream at low or
average flow but which has been flooded in the past or is likely to be flooded.
   (36)   FLOOD, REGULATORY: The 100-year flood with a peak discharge of 50
cubic feet per second (cfs) , or greater, and which has a one percent (1%)
chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   (37)   FLOODING, SHEET: A condition which occurs within those areas which
are subject to flooding of about one (1) foot in depth, more or less, during
the regulatory flood, and where a clearly-defined channel does not exist, so
that the path of the flooding is often unpredictable and indeterminate.
   (38)   FLOW, SHEET: The shallow, diffuse runoff produced from rainfall on a
large flat surface. It is characterized by approximately equal depth of runoff
across a broad width of flow.
   (39)   FLOODWAY: The area along a watercourse which will allow passage of
the regulatory flood without increasing flood elevations by more than one (1)
foot after a hypothetical encroachment has been made into the floodway fringe.
   (40)   FLOODWAY FRINGE: The portion of the regulatory flood plain that lies
outside the floodway.
   (41)   GARAGE, PRIVATE: A covered and completely enclosed building designed
for the parking of motor vehicles. A private garage is accessory to the
principal structure.
   (42)   GARAGE, PUBLIC: A building or portion thereof, other than a private
garage, designed or used for servicing, repairing, equipping, hiring, selling,
or storing motor vehicles.
   (43)   GRADING: Any land excavation, land clearing, land filling, or
disturbance of natural terrain and vegetation, or combination thereof.
   (44)   GRADE, FINISHED: The proposed and ultimately the final grade of the
lot.
   (45)   GRADE, NATURAL: The original undisturbed natural surface of the lot.
   (36)   GROUP HOME: A long-term residential care facility licensed by the
State of Arizona functioning as a single housekeeping unit providing meals,
supervision, and other support services for not more than ten (10) residents
(greater than ten residents is defined as a supervisory care facility), that
are physically, emotionally, and/or mentally disabled individuals not related
to the owner/manager of the group home. Typical uses include adult care homes,
homes for the developmentally disabled, group foster homes, and homes for the
chronically mentally ill. A group home does not include nursing homes, shelter
facilities, or community correctional facilities.
   (47)   GROSS FLOOR AREA: The floor area contained inside the building as
measured along the exterior walls of the building.
   (48)   GUEST RANCH: A building or group of buildings containing two or more
temporary guest rooms including but not limited to such facilities as swimming
pools, tennis courts, shuffleboard courts, barbecue and picnic facilities, and
dining facilities intended for use primarily by guests of the guest ranch.
   (49)   GUEST HOUSE: Living quarters in an accessory building or attached to
the principal residence, which may include cooking facilities, used to house
guests or domestic attendants of the occupants of the principal building, and
which shall never be rented or offered for rent or lease separate from the
principal residence.
   (50)   HOME OCCUPATION: An occupation or profession customarily conducted
entirely within a dwelling and carried on by a member(s) of the housekeeping
unit residing therein. The occupation or profession is clearly incidental and
subordinate to the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes and does not
change the character of the dwelling. There are no employees other than a
member(s) of the housekeeping unit residing in the dwelling. No mechanical
equipment is allowed except for that which is customarily used for domestic,
hobby, or household purposes. (Ord. #2016-06)
   (51)   HOUSEKEEPING UNIT: One (1) or more persons living, sleeping, and
cooking in a single dwelling unit who share housekeeping tasks and
responsibilities as an interdependent unit.
   (52)   HOSPITAL: An institution for the diagnosis, treatment, or other care
of human ailments. The term hospital is deemed to include sanitarium, clinic,
nursing home, convalescent home, and maternity home.
   (53)   HOTEL/MOTEL: A commercial building that provides guest rooms for the
lodging of travelers and other temporary residents and may include customarily
incidental uses such as, but not limited to, meeting rooms, restaurants, and
cocktail lounges.
   (54)   INDEPENDENT LIVING: A residential living setting subject to licensing
by the State of Arizona for elderly or senior adults that may or may not
require minimal hospitality or supportive services. (Ord. # 2006-05)
   (55)   JUNK: Any old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper,
trash, wood, rubber, plastic, glass, plant debris, waste, iron, steel; or other
old or scrap ferrous or nonferrous material; or junked, dismantled, wrecked
automobiles, or parts thereof.
   (56)   KENNEL: Any establishment housing dogs, cats, or other domestic pets
and where grooming, breeding, training, raising, caring for, adoption, or
selling of animals is conducted as a business. Kennel also includes for-profit
or non-profit animal shelters.
   (57)   LAUNDRY, SELF-HELP: A building with clothes washing, drying, and dry
cleaning machines that are provided on a rental basis to individuals doing
their own laundry and/or dry cleaning but not including outdoor drying
facilities.
   (58)   LOT: A parcel of land, or contiguous parcels under one ownership,
established by an approved subdivision plat, lot split, or other lawful method.
A lawful lot must meet minimum ordinance requirements.
   (59)   LOT AREA: The area of a horizontal plane within the lot lines of a
lot.
   (60)   LOT, CORNER: A lot located at the intersection of two (2) or more
streets.
   (61)   LOT COVERAGE: The total area under roof of all structures on a lot.
   (62)   LOT DEPTH: The shortest distance between the midpoint of the front
lot line and the midpoint of the rear lot line.
   (63)   LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
   (64)   LOT LINE, FRONT: The boundary of a lot which separates the lot from
the street; and in the case of a corner or through lot, a front yard setback
shall be provided along each street that is adjacent to the lot.
   (65)   LOT LINE, REAR: The boundary of a lot which is most distant from and
is most nearly opposite to the front lot line. In the absence of a rear lot
line as in the case of a triangular shaped lot, the rear lot line may be
considered as a line within the lot, parallel to and at a maximum distance from
the front lot line, having a length of not less than ten (10) feet.
   (66)   LOT LINE, SIDE: The boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line
nor a rear lot line.
   (67)   LOT OF RECORD: A lot which is part of a lawful subdivision, the plat
of which has been recorded in the office of the County Recorder of Maricopa
County. A lot split or combination, the deed of which has been recorded in the
office of the County Recorder of Maricopa County. A parcel of land lawfully
created prior to the incorporation of the Town, the deed of which has been
recorded in the office of the County Recorder of Maricopa County.
   (68)   LOT, THROUGH: A lot having a pair of opposite lot lines abutting two
(2) streets, and which is not a corner lot.
   (69)   LOT WIDTH: For rectangular lots the shortest distance between the
side lot lines. If the side lot lines are not parallel, the width of the lot
shall be the width as measured at the front setback line. If the lot is a
flaglot, the subject lot shall be measured at the building setback line
(required yard).
   (70)   MANUFACTURED HOME: A multi-sectional structure not exceeding two (2)
stories in height and manufactured after June 15, 1976, to standards
established by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development,
that when joined forms a residence for human occupancy that measures sixteen
(16) feet by forty (40) feet or larger and which is designed to be installed on
a permanent foundation.
   (71)   MASSAGE THERAPY: Manipulation of the human body through the skillful
application of any method of pressure on, friction against, or stroking,
kneading, rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating, or stimulating of external
soft parts of the body with the hands or with the aid of any mechanical
apparatus or electrical apparatus or appliance approved by the American Massage
Therapy Association.
   (72)   MEDICAL MARIJUANA: All parts of genus cannabis whether growing or
not, and the seed of such plants that may be administered to treat or alleviate
qualifying patients with debilitating medical conditions or symptoms associated
with the patient’s debilitating medical condition. (Ord. #2011-02)
   (73)   MEDICAL MARIJUANA CULTIVATION: The process by which a person grows a
medical marijuana plant. A facility shall mean a building, structure or
premises used for cultivation or storage of medical marijuana that is
physically separate and off-site from a medical marijuana dispensary. (Ord.
#2011-02)
   (74)   MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY: A non-profit entity defined in Arizona
Revised Statute §36-2801(11) that sells, distributes, transmits, gives,
dispenses, or otherwise provides medical marijuana to qualifying patients.
(Ord. #2011-02)
   (75)   MEDICAL MARIJUANA INFUSION (or MANUFACTURING) FACILITY: A facility
that incorporates medical marijuana (cannabis) by the means of cooking,
blending, or incorporations into consumable/edible goods. (May be combined with
cultivation definition). (Ord. #2011-02)
   (76)   MEDICAL MARIJUANA QUALIFYING PATIENT: A person who has been diagnosed
by a physician as having a debilitating medical condition as defined in Arizona
Revised Statute §36-2801.13. (Ord. #2011-02)
   (77)   MOBILE HOME: A structure built prior to June 15, 1976 on a permanent
chassis, capable of being transported in one or more sections, and designed to
be used with or without a permanent foundation as a dwelling unit when
connected to on-site utilities, but excluding factory-built buildings and
recreation vehicles as defined in this Ordinance.
   (78)   MULTI-TENANT COMPLEX: A building with space partitioned and/or
allocated for five (5) or more business tenants or a property with two (2) or
more buildings with shared onsite facilities, such as access, private parking,
and/or pedestrian amenities. (Ord. #2010-02)
   (79)   NON-CONFORMING USE, LEGAL: Any structure, building, or use of land
which at one time conformed to the applicable provisions of zoning laws or
regulations of the Town or Maricopa County but subsequently failed to conform
to any such applicable provisions, either as a result of incorporation or
annexation of the structure, building, or land into the Town, or as a result of
the adoption or amendment of the applicable zoning laws and regulations of the
Town.
   (80)   NURSERY SCHOOL: A facility in which child care is regularly provided
for five (5) or more children not related to the proprietor in exchange for
compensation. Any child care facility shall meet all requirements for
certification by the Arizona Department of Health.
   (81)   PLANT NURSERY: A place for commercial growing and/or keeping of
plants.
   (82)   PRIVATE CLUB: A meeting place for members of a group or organization
and their guests, but not including any adult oriented facilities, wherein a
variety of business uses can take place provided:
      (A)   No products of any kind are manufactured or assembled; and
      (B)   Sales are limited to food, beverages and merchandise related to the
private club, such as clothing and accessory items.
   (83)   PRIVATE ROAD/STREET: Any non-public vehicular access way on private
property that serves two or more principal uses or parcels.
   (84)   PUBLIC BUILDING: A building owned, occupied, and operated by a public
entity such as the United States, the State of Arizona, Maricopa County, the
Town, or other municipality.
   (85)   PUBLIC ROAD/STREET: Any thoroughfare not less than twenty-four (24)
feet in width (back of curb to back of curb) or otherwise approved in the
Mountainside District which has been dedicated or deeded to the public for
public use.
   (86)   RECREATION VEHICLE: A vehicular type unit that is:
      (A)   A portable camping trailer mounted on wheels and constructed with
collapsible partial sidewalls which fold for towing by another vehicle and
unfold for camping.
      (B)   A motor home designed to provide temporary living quarters for
recreational, camping, or travel use and built on or permanently attached to a
self-propelled motor vehicle chassis, chassis cab, or van that is an integral
part of the completed vehicle.
      (C)   A parked trailer on a single chassis, excluding fifth wheel
trailers, that is mounted on wheels and designed to be connected to utilities
necessary for operation of installed fixtures and appliances; that has a gross
trailer area of not less than three hundred twenty square feet; and that is not
more than four hundred square feet when it is set up.
      (D)   A travel trailer, including a fifth wheel trailer, mounted on
wheels and designed to provide temporary living quarters for recreational,
camping, or travel use; that is of a size or weight that may or may not require
special highway movement permits when towed by a motorized vehicle; and that
has a trailer area of less than three hundred twenty square feet.
      (E)   A portable truck camper constructed to provide temporary living
quarters for recreation travel or camping use and consisting of a roof, floor,
and sides designed to be loaded onto and unloaded from the bed of a pickup
truck.
   (87)   RENTAL STORE: A commercial establishment that allows for the short
term use of household items, party supplies, and small construction equipment.
Rental stores do not include the leasing or rental of motor vehicles.
   (88)   REPAIR SHOPS: A commercial establishment that restores, renovates, or
refurbishes household items. This does not include the restoration, renovation,
or fixing of motor vehicles.
   (89)   REQUIRED YARD (building setbacks): The horizontal distance prescribed
per zoning district measured from the property line towards the center of the
property. This open space shall be unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion
of a structure from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided in this
Ordinance. In order to maintain the community’s native desert character and
identity, no non-native shrubs, plants or trees shall be planted within any
building setback. Where the existing desert vegetation is sparse native,
drought tolerant and/or desert hybrid shrubs, trees and/or cacti may be planted
within the building setback but shall not create a structure as defined in this
Ordinance. (Ord. #2007-05)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0003cd82274f329442d59f15d9f1a278f471274/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1455.png]
 
Figure 2.3: Illustration of required yard (building setbacks).
   (90)   REQUIRED FRONT YARD: An open space extending across the front width
of a lot and being the minimum horizontal distance from the property line
towards the center of the property. Other than the address identification sign
as defined within this Ordinance, no column, driveway gate, free-standing solid
masonry wall, fence or other structure shall be placed within the required
front yard. The required front yard of a single-family residential corner lot
is the yard adjacent to the shorter street frontage. The required front yard of
a multiple-family or nonresidential corner lot shall be the yard adjacent to
each street frontage. In order to maintain the community’s native desert
character and identity, no non-native shrubs, plants or trees shall be planted
within the required front yard. Where the existing desert vegetation is sparse
native, drought tolerant and/or desert hybrid shrubs, trees and/or cacti may be
planted within the required front yard but shall not create a structure as
defined in this Ordinance. (Ord. #2007-05)
   (91)   REQUIRED REAR YARD: An open space extending across the rear width of
a lot and being the minimum horizontal distance from the property line towards
the center of the property. The required rear yard is typically opposite the
required front yard. If the lot has frontage on a cul-de-sac, the required rear
yard shall be the lot line which most closely approximates the rear lot line of
abutting lots.
   (92)   REQUIRED SIDE YARD: An open space between the required front and rear
yards and being the minimum horizontal distance from the property line towards
the center of the property. Any required lot line that is not a rear lot line
or front lot line shall be deemed a side lot line.
   (93)   RESORT HOTEL: A building or group of buildings other than a motel,
boarding house, or lodging house containing individual guest rooms, suites of
guest rooms, and/or dwellings which furnish services customarily provided by
hotels.
   (94)   RESTAURANT: An establishment whose primary business is the serving of
food to the public, where revenues from the sale of food served to the public
equal at least forty percent (40%) of the gross revenue. (Ord. #2010-02)
   (95)   RIDGE: A relatively narrow elevation that is prominent due to the
steep angle at which it rises and/or an elongated crest or series of crests
with or without peaks which are significantly higher than the adjoining ground
and are vulnerable to erosion, unstable slopes, and boulder slides.
   (96)   RIDGE LINE: A ground line located at the highest elevation of the
ridge running parallel to the long axis of the ridge.
   (97)   SERVICE STATION: A building or use devoted to the retail sale of
fuels, lubricants, and other supplies for motor vehicles, including minor
repair activities which are subordinate to the sale of petroleum products.
   (98)   SETBACK LINE: The line from which the minimum required yard (building
setback) is measured.
   (99)   SHADE STRUCTURE: A roofed structure without walls constructed in
conjunction with a corral which provides shade from the elements for horses or
other equines but is not used for the keeping of feed or tack.
   (100)   SIGN: Any device for visual communication, including any structure,
natural object, or part thereof which is used for the purpose of bringing the
subject to the attention of the public, but not including any flag, badge, or
insignia of any government or governmental agency. See
Article VIII for other definitions related to signs.
   (101)   SPA: A place providing any of the following:
      (A)   Personal services such as massages, facials, hair and nail salons.
      (B)   Fitness therapy and nutrition consultation.
      (C)   Exercise facilities such as a therapy or swimming pool, saunas,
lockers.
      (D)   Food services and/or sale of specialty retail items related to the
spa facilities.
   (102)   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS:
      (A)   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
         1)   Human genitals or pubic region.
         2)   Buttock.
         3)   Breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola.
      (B)   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   (103)   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES:
      (A)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
      (B)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, or sodomy.
      (C)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, or breasts.
   (104)   STABLE: Any building or structure used to house or provide shelter
for horses or other equines including the keeping of feed and tack. Any portion
of the building used for other than shelter for horses or the keeping of feed
and tack shall be deemed accessory building area. The term "stable" shall not
include a corral or shade structure.
   (105)   STREET: All property lawfully dedicated or reserved for public or
private street uses.
   (106)   STREET LINE: The boundary which separates the dedicated or reserved
right-of-way of a street from the abutting property.
   (107)   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change in the supporting members of a
building such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any
complete rebuilding of the roof or exterior walls.
   (108)   STRUCTURE: Any construction, or any production or piece of work
artificially built up or composed of parts joined together in some definite
manner, including a combination of organic or inorganic materials to form a
construction for occupancy, use or ornamentation whether installed on, above,
or below the surface of a parcel of land. For the purposes of this Ordinance,
structure is also defined to include a living fence or a hedge consisting of
plants, shrubs, trees or other organic material placed in a linear or regular
pattern to act as a wall or barrier.
   (109)   STUDIO: A place providing office space for individuals to fabricate
and display artistic work such as paintings, sculptures, graphic illustrations,
or similar applications. (Ord. #2007-05)
   (110)   SUPERVISORY CARE FACILITY: A facility with the characteristics of a
group home which houses eleven (11) or more individuals and is licensed and
regulated by the Arizona Department of Health Services.
   (111)   SWIMMING POOL, PRIVATE: A contained body of water used for swimming
or bathing, either above ground level or below ground level, having either a
maximum depth at any point of more than eighteen (18) inches or a water surface
area of more than thirty-eight (38) square feet, or both. Hot tubs, spas, and
jacuzzis meeting the criteria of the preceding sentence are included in this
definition.
   (112)   TRAILER: A non-motorized towed vehicle designed to transport things
including but not limited to sand, gravel, horses, boats, or vehicles.
   (113)   USE: The purpose for which land or a building is occupied,
maintained, arranged, intended, designed, let, or leased.
   (114)   USE, ACCESSORY: A subordinate use of a building or land customarily
incidental to and conducted on the same lot with the principal use, including
servant or caretaker quarters, which does not alter the character of the
principal use or adversely affect other properties within the surrounding area.
   (115)   USE, PRINCIPAL: The main or primary use or uses on any lot which
establishes the basic land use characteristics of the property as distinguished
from an accessory use.
   (116)   UTILITY POLES AND WIRES: Poles, structures, wires, cable, conduit,
transformers, and related facilities used in or as a part of the transportation
or distribution of electricity or power or in the transmission of telephone,
telegraph, radio, or television communications.
   (117)   VARIANCE: An exception to the provisions of this Ordinance granted
by the Board of Adjustment.
   (118)   WAREHOUSE: A building the principal use of which is storage of
merchandise, commodities, or personal property but excluding storage as an
incidental or accessory use.
   (119)   WATERCOURSE: Any naturally occurring lake, river, stream, creek,
wash, arroyo, draw, or other body of water or channel having banks and/or beds
through which waters flow at least periodically; any depression serving to give
direction to a current of storm water; and other naturally occurring areas that
are designated by rule or order of the Town of Carefree where substantial flood
damage may occur.
   (120)   WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES (WCF): A facility transmitting a
radio frequency approved by the FCC and composed of antennas, cables, and
equipment cabinets to house associated infrastructure for the provision of
wireless communication services as defined by the Federal Telecommunications
Act of 1996 and any amendments thereto.
   (121)   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: The Town Administrator or his duly authorized
representative.
   (122)   ZONING CLEARANCE: A permit or other authorization by the Zoning
Administrator indicating that a proposed building, structure, or use of land
meets all the standards contained in this Ordinance.
Article III.   ADMINISTRATION
Section 3.01   Zoning Administrator
   (1)   Shall be responsible for the administration, enforcement, and
interpretation of this Ordinance.
   (2)   May prepare application guidelines, forms, and administrative
procedures consistent with this Ordinance for the implementation thereof.
Section 3.02   Planning and Zoning Commission
   (1)   PURPOSE
      (A)   The Planning and Zoning Commission/Development Review Board shall
serve as the planning agency for the Town to carry out the purposes of this
Ordinance and the Arizona Revised Statutes relating to planning, zoning,
subdivision, and building regulations.
   (2)   ORGANIZATION
      (A)   The number of members of the Commission/Board shall be seven (7)
who shall be appointed by the Town Council to serve without compensation.
Beginning in February, 2023, the Commission/Board terms will consist of four
(4)-year staggered terms. At this time (February, 2023) any incumbents which
were reappointed in February, 2023 will serve an initial two (2)-year term. At
the expiration of this two (2)-year term these Commissioners/Boardmembers can
serve an additional four (4)-year term if reappointed by Town Council. After
this second term (total of six (6) years of service), these Commissioners/
Boardmembers must sit out a minimum of two (2) years before being considered to
serve again. New Commissioners/Boardmembers (nonincumbents) appointed in
February 2023 will serve an initial term of four (4) years. After initial term
they can serve an additional four (4)-year term if reappointed by Town Council.
After this second term (total of eight (8) years of service), these
Commissioners/Boardmembers must sit out a minimum of two (2) years before being
considered again.
         1)   During any term, any vacancy can be filled by appoint of the Town
Council to complete the remaining balance of the respective term being filled.
         2)   The Commissoners/Boardmembers serve at the pleasure of the Town
Council. (Ord. # 2023-04)
      (B)   The Commission shall elect one of its members to serve as
Chairperson and one to serve as Vice-Chairperson.
   (3)   RULES
      (A)   Meetings of the Commission shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson and at such other times as the Commission shall determine, provided
that notice of all hearings, the conduct thereof, and minutes taken, shall meet
the requirements of the Arizona Open Meeting Law.
      (B)   All meetings shall be open to the public.
      (C)   A quorum consisting of four (4) members shall be present in order
to conduct business.
      (D)   A majority of members present shall be required to approve or deny
a motion on any item.
   (4)   DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
      (A)   Preparation and/or review of all present, future, and proposed
planning, zoning, subdivision, and building ordinances for the Town and
amendments thereto.
      (B)   The holding of public hearings on such proposed planning,
subdivision, and building ordinances and amendments thereto, and the making of
recommendations to the Town Council for action.
      (C)   The holding of public hearings when necessary and the making of
recommendations to the Town Council on matters concerning or relating to the
creation of zoning districts, the boundaries thereof, the appropriate
regulations to be enforced therein, the amendments of this Ordinance, the
granting of Special Use Permits, Conditional Use Permits and any other matter
within the scope of zoning powers.
      (D)   Reviewing, conducting public hearings, and making recommendations
to the Town Council, the Board of Adjustment, or the Zoning Administrator,
whichever is applicable, for action on all requests for plans of development,
subdivisions, and zoning clearances referred by the Zoning Administrator. (Ord.
#2013-02)
Section 3.03   Development Review Board:
   (1)   PURPOSE
      (A)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall serve as the Development
Review Board for the Town to carry out the purposes of this Ordinance and the
Arizona Revised Statutes relating to planning, zoning, and building
regulations.
   (2)   ORGANIZATION
      (A)   The Board shall be composed of the seven (7) Planning and Zoning
Commissioners who are appointed by the Town Council to serve without
compensation for a term of office at the pleasure of the Town Council.
      (B)   The Board’s Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson shall be the
Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (3)   PROCEDURE
      (A)   The procedures are contained in the Town of Carefree Development
Review Manuals titled “Site Plan” and “Mountainside”.
      (B)   Any approval by the Board shall expire after twelve (12) calendar
months if building permits are not granted for the respective development
proposal within the aforementioned time period. An extension of a maximum of
six (6) months may be granted by the Zoning Administrator. Extension will only
be granted if the applicant provides to the Zoning Administrator a written
request detailing circumstances beyond the applicant’s control that have caused
unanticipated delays in the development of the project.
   (4)   GOALS
      (A)   To encourage, protect, and enhance the health, safety, and general
welfare of the citizens of the Town of Carefree.
      (B)   To encourage, protect, and enhance the attractive appearance of the
Town of Carefree as defined in the Town of Carefree Design Guidelines titled
“Single-Family,” “Mountainside,” and “Commercial.”
      (C)   To promote development consistent with the Town’s goals of
protecting its unique desert environment.
      (D)   To ensure the provision of necessary utilities, services, and
circulation.
   (5)   WHEN REQUIRED
      (A)   For all new non-residential construction including land disturbance
for roads, structures, or buildings of any kind.
      (B)   An increase in square footage of a non-residential use by
approximately one third (1/3) or a significant exterior alteration (determined
by the Zoning Administrator) of a non-residential use.
      (C)   Any amendment to an approved development review plan.
      (D)   Any new development within the Mountainside zoning district defined
by
Article X.
      (E)   Other applicable uses as required in the Zoning Ordinance. (Ord.
#2013-01)
   (6)   APPEALS:
      (A)   The approval, with or without conditions, or denial by the
Development Review Board shall be final unless within twenty-one (21) calendar
days from the date of the Board’s decision the applicant appeals the decision
in writing to the Town Council. Such appeal shall be submitted to the Town
Clerk and shall include a brief statement of the grounds of the appeal and the
relief requested. The Town Council shall hear such appeal at the next regularly
scheduled Council meeting if there is a minimum of fourteen (14) calendar days
before the next regularly scheduled Council meeting. If there is not a minimum
of fourteen (14) calendar days, such appeal shall be heard at the second
regularly scheduled Council meeting following the official filing of the appeal
with the Town Clerk.
      (B)   The Town Council shall have the right and the prerogative to
initiate its own review of any decision arrived at by the Development Review
Board and shall uphold, modify, or over-rule said decision. Such Council-
initiated review of any Board decision shall be considered at the next
regularly scheduled Town Council meeting after the Development Review Board’s
decision if there is a minimum of fourteen (14) calendar days before the next
regularly scheduled Council meeting. If there is not a minimum of fourteen (14)
calendar days, such appeal shall be heard at the second regularly scheduled
Council meeting after the Board’s decision. If no review is initiated by the
Town Council, the Board’s decision shall be deemed to be final and binding.
Section 3.04   Board of Adjustment (Ord. #2013-02)
   (1)   PURPOSE
      (A)   The Board of Adjustment is a quasi-judicial body created to hear
and decide requests for relief from the terms of this Ordinance (variance) and
to hear and decide appeals from interpretations of this Ordinance made by the
Zoning Administrator.
   (2)   ORGANIZATION
      (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall be composed of the seven (7) members
of the Planning and Zoning Commission, which includes the Chairperson and the
Vice-Chairperson.
      (B)   The Planning and Zoning Commission’s Chairperson and Vice-
Chairperson shall be the Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson of the Board of
Adjustment.
   (3)   RULES
      (A)   In the absence of the Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson shall be
the Chairperson.
      (B)   The Chairperson, or in his absence the Vice-Chairperson, may
administer oaths and take evidence.
      (C)   Meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of
the Chairperson or Vice Chairperson at times deemed necessary for the
transaction of business.
      (D)   A quorum consisting of four (4) members shall be present in order
to conduct business.
      (E)   A majority of members present shall be required to approve or deny
a motion on any item.
      (F)   All meetings shall be open to the public.
      (G)   The Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings, of
its hearings, and of other official actions showing the vote or failure to vote
of each member upon each question and indicating the absence of any member of
the Board.
      (H)   A copy of every rule or regulation, variance or order, requirement,
decision, or determination of the Board of Adjustment shall be filed with the
Zoning Administrator and shall be a public record.
      (I)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt all rules and procedures
necessary or convenient for the conduct of its business.
   (4)   POWERS AND DUTIES
      (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals in which it
is alleged there is an error in an order, requirement, or decision made by the
Zoning Administrator in the enforcement of this Ordinance.
         1)   Appeals to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by persons
aggrieved or by any officer, Department, Board, or bureau of the municipality
affected by a decision of the Zoning Administrator regarding an interpretation
of the Zoning Ordinance within twenty-one (21) calendar days of such decision
or within twenty-one (21) calendar days of when the appealing party knew or
should have known of the decision by filing with the Zoning Administrator and
with the Board a Notice of Appeal specifying the grounds thereof.
         2)   No development activities shall commence under the decision and
no building permits shall be issued based upon the decision until expiration of
the twenty-one (21) calendar day appeal period, unless the Zoning Administrator
determines that the delay would cause imminent peril to life or property. If
applicable, the Zoning Administrator shall notify the property owner in writing
of an appeal and shall advise the property owner to cease all activities under
the decision, pending resolution of the appeal.
         3)   The Board shall hear the appeal within sixty (60) calendar days
from the date of original decision and shall give notice of hearing by both
publication in a newspaper of general circulation and by posting the notice in
a conspicuous place(s) on or near to the property affected.
         4)   The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or modify the
order of an interpretation of the Zoning Ordinance made by the Zoning
Administrator.
      (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals for variances
from the terms of the Zoning Ordinance only if the strict application of this
Ordinance will deprive such property of privileges enjoyed by other property of
the same classification in the same zoning district because of special
circumstances applicable to the subject property, including its size, shape,
topography, location, or surroundings.
         1)   Any variance granted is subject to such conditions as will assure
that the adjustment authorized shall not constitute a grant of special
privileges inconsistent with the limitations upon other properties in the
vicinity and zone in which such property is located.
         2)   The Board of Adjustment may not grant a variance if the special
circumstances applicable to the property are self-imposed by the property
owner.
         3)   The Board of Adjustment may prescribe any conditions or
stipulations for the approval of a variance as it deems necessary to carry out
the intent of this Ordinance.
   (5)   PROHIBITED ACTION
      (A)   The Board of Adjustment may not make any changes in the uses
permitted in any zoning classification or zoning district or make any changes
in the terms of the Zoning Ordinance, provided this limitation shall not affect
the Board’s authority to grant variances pursuant to this Article.
   (6)   APPEAL FROM THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT DECISION
      (A)   A person aggrieved by a decision of the Board of Adjustment may, at
any time within thirty (30) days after the Board of Adjustment has rendered its
decision, file a complaint for special action in the Superior Court to review
the decision.
      (B)   Filing the complaint does not stay proceedings on the decision
sought to be reviewed, but the court may, on application, grant a stay and on
final hearing may affirm or reverse, in whole or in part, or modify the
decision reviewed.
Section 3.05   Neighborhood Unit Plan of Development
   (1)   The Town Council may authorize, within any zoning district, a
Neighborhood Unit Plan of Development (NUPD) to provide for the development of
a large site as a complete neighborhood unit having a range of dwelling types,
the necessary shopping centers and off-street parking areas, parks,
playgrounds, school sites, and other community facilities after being reviewed
at public hearings by the Planning and Zoning Commission and the Town Council.
The minimum allowable size of a NUPD is thirty (30) acres.
   (2)   The procedure is contained in the Town of Carefree Development Review
Manual titled “Zoning”.
Section 3.06   Residential Unit Plan of Development
   (1)   The Town Council may authorize, within any zoning district, a
Residential Unit Plan of Development to provide for the large scale residential
development wherein variation in the lot size, dwelling types, and/or open
spaces about them is warranted due to topography or other considerations after
being reviewed at public hearings by the Planning and Zoning Commission and the
Town Council. The minimum allowable size of a RUPD is ten (10) acres.
   (2)   The procedure is contained in the Town of Carefree Development Review
Manual titled “Zoning”.
Section 3.07   Special Use Permit (Ord. #2006-05)
   (1)   The uses defined as Special Uses in
Article V. may be approved by the Town Council after being reviewed at public
hearings by the Planning and Zoning Commission and the Town Council.
   (2)   Prior to the public hearing, the site shall be posted a minimum of
fifteen (15) days before the Planning and Zoning Commission hearing. Such
posting shall remain on the site until the completion of the Town Council’s
hearing in which the application for the Special Use Permit is considered. In
addition, all property owners within a 500 foot radius of the subject property
shall be notified of both the Commission and Town Council hearing dates by
first class mail a minimum of fifteen (15) days before the Planning and Zoning
Commission hearing.
   (3)   The Applicant shall complete and submit information that the Zoning
Administrator requests from the Special Use Permit checklist prior to
consideration of the application.
   (4)   The Zoning Administrator shall review all submitted information for
accuracy and completeness prior to scheduling the Planning and Zoning
Commission and Town Council public hearings. Once the application is deemed
complete by the Zoning Administrator, the public hearings shall be scheduled by
the Zoning Administrator.
   (5)   The Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend imposing conditions
for the approval of a Special Use Permit and the Town Council may place any
conditions upon the approval of a Special Use Permit.
   (6)   A refusal to issue a Special Use Permit is not the denial of a right,
conditional or otherwise. The authority to issue a Special Use Permit is not a
mandatory one and the permissive power granted is to be exercised or not, at
the Town Council's discretion. Such action by the Town Council on a Special Use
Permit request shall be considered a legislative act and, if approved, adopted
through an Ordinance to amend the Town’s zoning map.
   (7)   The burden of providing specific evidence and facts showing that the
public health, safety, and welfare will be served and will not be adversely
affected and that necessary safeguards will be provided for the protection of
adjacent property shall rest with the applicant.
Section 3.08   Conditional Use Permit (Ord. #2006-05)
   (1)   The uses defined as Conditional Uses in
Article V. may be approved by the Town Council after being reviewed at public
meetings by the Planning and Zoning Commission and the Town Council.
   (2)   Prior to the public meetings, the site shall be posted a minimum of
fifteen (15) days before the Planning and Zoning Commission meeting. Such
posting shall remain on the site until the completion of the Town Council’s
meeting in which the application for the Conditional Use Permit is considered.
   (3)   The Applicant shall complete and submit information that the Zoning
Administrator requests from the Conditional Use Permit checklist prior to
consideration of the application. The Zoning Administrator shall review all
submitted information for accuracy and completeness prior to scheduling the
Planning and Zoning Commission and Town Council public meetings. Once the
application is deemed complete by the Zoning Administrator, the public meetings
shall be scheduled by the Zoning Administrator.
   (4)   The burden of providing specific evidence and facts showing that the
public health, safety, and welfare will be served and will not be adversely
affected and that necessary safeguards will be provided for the protection of
adjacent property shall rest with the applicant.
   (5)   The Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend imposing conditions
for the approval of a Conditional Use Permit and the Town Council may place any
conditions upon the approval of a Conditional Use Permit.
Section 3.09   Special Event Permits (Ord. #2006-05)
   (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall hear applications for and may grant
Special Event Permits for a period of time not to exceed sixty (60) days for
special events such as circuses, Christmas tree lots, revivals, horse shows,
rodeos, charity events, and other short term events. Temporary construction
offices and sales offices for new subdivisions shall be granted for a length of
time specified by the Zoning Administrator.
   (2)   The Special Event Permit may be issued if a finding that the use
covered by the permit, or the manner of conducting the same is not detrimental
to:
      (A)   Persons residing or working in the vicinity,
      (B)   Adjacent property,
      (C)   The surrounding neighborhood, or
      (D)   The public welfare in general.
   (3)   Factors which may be reviewed include but are not limited to:
      (A)   Emitting odor, dust, gas, noise, smoke, heat, or glare beyond any
boundary of the lot on which the use is being conducted.
      (B)   Causing a significant increase in traffic congestion.
      (C)   Constituting a threat to public health or safety.
      (D)   Causing or contributing to disturbances or breaches of the public
peace and order.
   (4)   A Special Event Permit may be revoked by the Zoning Administrator upon
a finding that there is material noncompliance with any condition prescribed in
conjunction with the issuance of the permit, or that the use covered by the
permit or the manner of conducting the same:
      (A)   Is detrimental to persons residing or working in the vicinity,
adjacent property, the neighborhood, or the public welfare in general.
      (B)   Is in violation of any provision of this Ordinance or any law of
the Town of Carefree or, if applicable, any law of Maricopa County, the State
of Arizona, or the United States.
      (C)   The revocation of a Special Event Permit shall become final
immediately.
Section 3.10   Amendments to the Zoning Ordinance
   (1)   The provisions of this Ordinance including the zoning map may, from
time to time, be amended, supplemented, changed, modified, or repealed by the
Town Council.
   (2)   Requests to amend this Ordinance may be initiated by the Commission, a
member of the Town Council, or a real property owner in the area to be included
in the proposed amendment. Applications for amendment shall be made in the
office of the Zoning Administrator on a form provided.
   (3)   Zoning map amendments within the Zoning Ordinance must conform to the
land use map of the Town of Carefree General Plan 2020. Any required amendment
to the General Plan 2020 land use map must be requested by the applicant and
approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission and Town Council prior to any
decision being made on the zoning map amendment.
   (4)   The procedure for zoning amendments is contained in the Town of
Carefree Development Review Manual titled “Zoning”.
Section 3.11   Zoning Clearance and Building Permit
   (1)   A zoning clearance and building permit for a principal use are
required prior to starting any construction including any change to existing
buildings, roads, driveways, or native plants and including grading or
grubbing.
   (2)   A zoning clearance may not be required for the repair or replacement
of a roof or exterior finish depending upon the extent of the work involved.
However, approval by the Zoning Administrator is required.
Article IV.   ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
Section 4.01   Zoning Districts
   (1)   The Town is hereby divided into the following zoning districts:
      (A)   Rural-190, Rural Zoning District - 190,000 Square Feet Per Single-
Family Dwelling.
      (B)   Rural-70, Rural Zoning District - 70,000 Square Feet Per Single-
Family Dwelling.
      (C)   Rural-43, Rural Zoning District - One (1) Acre (43,560 Square Feet)
Per Single-Family Dwelling.
      (D)   R1-35, Single-Family Residential Zoning District - 35,000 Square
Feet Per Single-Family Dwelling.
      (E)   R1-18, Single-Family Residential Zoning District - 18,000 Square
Feet Per Single-Family Dwelling.
      (F)   R1-10, Single-Family Residential Zoning District - 10,000 Square
Feet Per Single-Family Dwelling.
      (G)   R-3, Multiple-Family Residential Zoning District.
      (H)   L, Lodging.
      (I)   GO, Garden Office Zoning District.
      (J)   C, Commercial Zoning District.
      (K)   OS-R, Open Space-Recreation Zoning District. (Ord. #2013-01)
Section 4.02   Boundary Lines
   (1)   The boundaries of the zoning districts are shown upon the map
designated as the Zoning District Map; the original of which is signed and
dated by the Town Administrator and stored for safe-keeping by the Town Clerk.
The Zoning District Map, along with all the notations, references, and other
information shown thereon, are hereby adopted and are made a part of this
ordinance and have the same force and effect.
Section 4.03   Boundary Determination
   (1)   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any zoning
district as shown on the Zoning District Map, the following rules shall apply:
      (A)   Where zoning district boundaries approximately follow street or
alley lines or their centerlines, the lines shall be construed to be the zoning
district boundaries.
      (B)   Where zoning district boundaries approximately follow lot lines,
the lot lines shall be the zoning district boundaries.
      (C)   Where zoning district boundaries approximately follow the line of
any stream, irrigation canal, waterway, railroad right of way, or the boundary
line of public land, the lines shall be the zoning district boundaries.
      (D)   Where a zoning district boundary divides a lot, the location of the
boundary (unless indicated by dimensions shown on the Zoning District Map)
shall be determined by the use of the scale shown on the map.
   (2)   The following shall apply whenever a lot is divided by zoning district
boundaries:
      (A)   If any zoning district comprises a minimum of 51 percent of the
land area of the lot, that zoning district shall apply to the entire lot.
      (B)   In all other cases the Zoning Administrator shall determine the
zoning district that applies to the lot.
      (C)   In all cases only one zoning district shall apply to the entire
lot.
Section 4.04   Public Way Vacation
   (1)   Whenever any street, alley, or other public way is vacated by the Town
Council, the zoning districts adjoining each side of such street, alley, or
public way shall be extended to the center of such vacation.
Section 4.05   Lands Not Previously Zoned
   (1)   Lands, which come under the authority of the Town after this ordinance
becomes effective and which have not been zoned by any other jurisdiction,
shall be zoned Rural-190 Zoning District until such lands are rezoned pursuant
to this Ordinance. This rezoning shall take place and shall become effective no
later than six months after the lands come under the authority of the Town.
Section 4.06   Lands Previously Zoned By Other Jurisdictions
   (1)   Lands, which come under the authority of the Town after this Ordinance
becomes effective and which have been zoned by another jurisdiction, shall
retain such zoning until rezoned by the Town.
   (2)   This rezoning shall take place and shall become effective no later
than six months after the lands come under the authority of the Town.
Article V.   USES PERMITTED IN EACH ZONING DISTRICT AND ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS
AND CLARIFICATIONS FOR USES PERMITTED IN EACH ZONING DISTRICT
Section 5.01   Uses Permitted In Each Zoning District (Ord. #2006-05)
Table 5.1 illustrates the land uses qualified for each zoning district by right
or through a Special or Conditional Use Permit. An “X” in the box below a
zoning district and to the right of the described land use implies the use is
allowed by right. A “C” in the box below a zoning district and to the right of
the described land use authorizes an application for a Conditional Use Permit.
An “S” in the box below a zoning district and to the right of the described
land use authorizes an application for a Special Use Permit. A blank in any box
indicates the use is not permitted. The subscripted numbers in the boxes
illustrate additional conditions, provisions and/or criteria pertaining to the
respective land use, if authorized by the Town Council.
Permitted Uses
Those uses allowed by right, subject to the stated conditions (subscripted
numbers in Table 5.1) and applicable regulations, are required to obtain a
building permit prior to commencement of construction activity. In some
instances, such as a commercial project, garden-office development, multiple-
family development or mountainside development (as defined by
Article X.), a site/development plan must be reviewed and approved by the
Development Review Board prior to the approval and issuance of a building
permit.
Conditional Uses
Those uses permitted through the approval of a Conditional Use Permit shall
fulfill all the conditions specified in the footnote (subscripted number)
specified both in Table 5.1 and further described in Section 5.02. The issuance
of a Conditional Use Permit is considered an administrative act.
Special Uses
Those uses permitted through the approval of a Special Use Permit shall fulfill
all the criteria specified both in the footnote (subscripted number) specified
in Table 5.1 and further described in Section 5.02. The issuance of a Special
Use Permit is considered a legislative act.
Table 5.1: Uses allowed in each zoning district, residential (Rural-190 through
R-3) , Lodging (L), Garden Office (GO), and Commercial (C). (Ord. #2005-05,
Ord. #2006-05)
ZONING DISTRICT
USES ALLOWED Rural- Rural- Rural- R1-35 R1-18 R1-10 R-3 L GO C
             190    70     43
ZONING DISTRICT
USES ALLOWED    Rural- Rural- Rural- R1-35 R1-18 R1-10 R-3 L   GO      C
                190    70     43
Airports,                   S1                                  
Existing
Accessory Uses  X2     X2     X2     X2    X2    X2    X2  X3  X3      X3
                                                           *X2
Assisted Care
Facility/                                        S4  S4  S4       
Nursing Home
Bakery                                                        X5
Bank, Savings                                          S6      X
and Loans
Financial                                                     X
Institutions
Barber and                                                    X
Beauty Shops
Bowling Alley                                                 X
Candy Shops                                                   X5
Catering                                                      X
Church (Places  S7     S7     S7     S7    S7    S7    S7  S7  S7      S7
of Worship)
Clinic, Health                                         X       X
College,                                                      X
Business
Dry Cleaning                                                  X
Dwelling, One-  X2     X2     X2     X2    X2    X2    X2  *           
Family
Dwelling,                                        X2            C8
Multiple Family
Fire Station                                                  X
Galleries                                                     X
Golf Courses,                     X9    X9                       
Existing
Group Home      X10    X10    X10    X10   X10   X10                 
Guest House     X      X      X      X     X     X                   
Gyms                                                          X
Hobby Shops                                                   X
Home            X2     X2     X2     X2    X2    X2    X2             
Occupations
Horses          X11                                             
Hospitals                                                     X
Hotels, Motels                                      X          X
Interior                                               X12     X
Decorator
Kennels                                                       X
Locksmith                                                     X
Medical                                                       X
Laboratories
Medical
Marijuana                                                     C13
Dispensary
Nursery Schools                                  S14 S14 S14     X
Offices                                                X12, 16 X
Pharmacy                                                      X
Plant Nursery                                                 X17
Printing/                                                     X
Copying
Public                                              X   X       X
Buildings
Public
Facilities/     S18    S18    S18    S18   S18   S18   S18 S18 S18     S18
Utilities
Public Park     C15    C15    C15    C15   C15   C15   C15 C15 C15     C15
Private Clubs                                                 X19
Rental Store                                                  X20
Repair Shops                                                  X21
Resort Hotel                                        X          X
Restaurants                                                   X22
Restaurant,                                                   S
Drive- through
Retail Sales                                                  X19 , 20
Schools                                     S23   S23 S23 S23     X
Schools, Trade                                                X23
Service                                                       S24
Stations
Small Wireless
Service         X29    X29    X29    X29   X29   X29   X29 X29 X29     X29
Facilities in
the ROW
Studios                                                X16     X16
Supervisory                                      S25 S25 S25     S25
Care Facility
Spas                                                          X19
Taxidermists                                                  X
Theater                                                       X19
Veterinary                                             S26     X
Clinic
Warehouse                                                     S27
Wireless
Communication   C28    C28    C28    C28   C28   C28   C28 C28 C28     C28
Facilities
* Carefree Inn Estates
 
Section 5.02   Additional Requirements and Clarifications (Ord. #2006-05)
   (1)   The existing Sky Ranch Airport is allowed as a Special Use in the
Rural-43 zoning district. Any new construction, expansion, remodeling,
upgrading, and other changes shall be subject to the approval of a Special Use
Permit. No other airports are allowed in the Town of Carefree. The application
for an amendment to the Special Use Permit shall comply with the process
prescribed in Article III., Section
3.07.
   (2)   Permitted Residential Accessory Buildings and Uses:
      (A)   Home occupations:
         1)   An occupation or profession customarily conducted entirely within
a dwelling and carried on by a member(s) of the housekeeping unit residing
therein. The occupation or profession is clearly incidental and subordinate to
the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes and does not change the character
of the dwelling. There are no employees other than a member(s) of the
housekeeping unit residing in the dwelling. No mechanical equipment is allowed
except for that which is customarily used for domestic, hobby, or household
purposes.
         2)   Home occupation includes the use of a dwelling by physician,
surgeon, dentist, lawyer, clergyman, or other professional person for
consultation or emergency treatment but not for the general practice of the
profession.
         3)   Home occupation does not include clinic, hospital, barber shop,
beauty parlor, animal hospital, advertising or public relations agency,
interior decorator's office, art gallery, or similar use.
         4)   No indication shall be detected from the exterior of the building
or property that it is being utilized for any purpose other than that of a
dwelling, nor shall such use generate pedestrian or vehicular traffic beyond
that normal to the district in which it is located.
         5)   A carport or garage may not be used for home occupations.
      (B)   Fences or free-standing walls subject to the fences and walls
Article IX.
      (C)   Private swimming pool and related structures, provided:
         1)   Such pool and related mechanical equipment shall be located in
other than a required yard (building setback).
         2)   Fences and walls shall meet the requirements of
Article IX.
         3)   Accessory equipment such as pumps, heaters, and filters shall be
fully screened by a solid wall at least four and one-half (4.5) feet high to
screen sound and sight from neighboring lots.
      (D)   Private tennis court provided:
         1)   Lights are not permitted.
         2)   For fencing requirements see fences and walls
Article IX.
      (E)   A satellite or communications dish having:
         1)   A non-reflective finish.
         2)   Maximum diameter of one (1) meter or less unless a larger
diameter is approved by the Development Review Board.
         3)   Must be attached to the principal structure.
      (F)   In the single-family residential zones only, a maximum of one (1)
antenna may be attached to the roof. The antenna may be up to a maximum of four
(4) feet above the highest roof line, unless a taller antenna is approved by
the Development Review Board.
      (G)   In the multi-family residential zones only:
         1)   A manager's office or rental office that shall be used for the
purpose of managing, leasing, renting, or sales of the property it is located
on.
         2)   A recreation or meeting room that shall be only for the use of
the persons inhabiting the property and their guests.
         3)   A self-service laundry to be used only by the persons inhabiting
the property.
         4)   Such facilities shall not be used for commercial purposes.
      (H)   Private garage.
      (I)   At no time shall a motor home, bus, trailer, travel trailer, boat,
or camper be occupied or used for sleeping, living, or housekeeping purposes.
      (J)   No motor home, bus, mobile home, trailer, travel trailer, boat, or
camper may be parked, located, or stored on any vacant lot.
      (K)   Any motor home, bus, trailer, travel trailer, boat, camper, and
mechanical equipment shall be stored within a garage. Except for loading and
unloading purposes which may not exceed a time period of forty-eight (48)
hours.
      (L)   The underground storage of fuels or chemicals including but not
limited to gasoline, kerosene, diesel oil fuel, insecticides, paint thinners,
or solvents shall not be permitted in any rural or residential zoning district.
   (3)   Permitted Commercial Accessory Buildings and Uses:
      (A)   Fences or free-standing walls subject to the fences and walls
Article IX.
      (B)   A maximum of one (1) antenna attached to the roof, up to a maximum
of four (4’) feet above the highest roof line, unless a taller antenna is
approved by the Development Review Board.
      (C)   A satellite or communications dish having:
         1)   A non-reflective finish.
         2)   Maximum diameter of one (1) meter, unless a larger diameter is
approved by the Development Review Board.
         3)   Must be attached to the principal structure.
   (4)   A Special Use Permit for an Assisted Care Facility/Nursing Home (also
includes independent living and continuing care retirement community; see
Article II. for definitions of each use) shall meet the following minimum
criteria:
      (A)   The application for the Special Use Permit or amendment thereof
shall comply with the process prescribed in Article III., Section
3.07.
      (B)   The use shall be located adjacent to an arterial roadway as
identified in the Circulation Element of the Town’s General Plan.
      (C)   A minimum building setback of sixty (60) feet shall be maintained
along any abutting residential property.
      (D)   The density of the development may not exceed one unit for 3,250
square feet of net lot area (excluding any right-of-way). A unit for an
Assisted Care Facility/Nursing Home shall be defined as being one bedroom. In
the case where independent living is integrated into an Assisted Care Facility/
Nursing Home and two bedrooms are provided for one patient and a spouse, such
unit shall be considered as only one unit. If such two bedroom unit is shared
by two unrelated individuals such unit will be counted as two separate units.
In the case of communal bedrooms such as a sleeping porch, every two (2) beds
will be counted as one unit. If the number of beds are not an even count, the
number of units will be rounded up (example: 5 beds = 3 units).
      (E)   The building height may not exceed eighteen (18) feet from natural
and finished grade and twenty-five (25) feet from the highest point of the roof
to lowest elevation where the building meets natural grade.
      (F)   Minimum lot size for an Assisted Care Facility/Nursing Home is
three (3) net acres.
      (G)   Any parking lot shall be screened from the street or adjacent
residential property by a three (3) foot high, horizontally undulating masonry
wall and native desert landscaping. The number of parking spaces shall meet the
minimum requirements of Article VII., Section
7.01,
Table 7.1 (including one space per each unit and one space per each employee or
contracted employee). A minimum of thirty-five (35) percent of the parking area
shall be treated with pavers or exposed aggregate.
      (H)   The applicant must establish that the application mitigates impacts
on adjacent properties such as lighting, noise and odors. Furthermore, the
applicant must ensure the land use is consistent with the Land Use Map of the
Town’s General Plan. The analogous Land Use categories are Moderate Density
Residential, Resort/Hotel or Garden Office designations.
      (I)   Any amendments to the approved Special Use Permit after it is
granted by the Town Council including but not limited to the addition of units,
parking spaces and/or supporting facilities/amenities must satisfy the
requirements of the Zoning Ordinance and any applicable State or Federal law.
   (5)   The product produced on site shall be limited to the product that will
be offered for sale on site; no wholesale or off-site retail of the product is
allowed unless approved by the Zoning Administrator.
   (6)   A Special Use Permit for a Bank/Savings and Loan shall meet the
following minimum criteria:
      (A)   The application for the Special Use Permit or amendment thereof
shall comply with the process prescribed in Article III., Section
3.07.
      (B)   The use shall be located adjacent to an arterial roadway as
identified in the Circulation Element of the Town’s General Plan.
      (C)   A drive-through shall not be permitted in the Garden-Office zoning
district.
      (D)   A minimum of thirty-five (35) percent of the parking area shall be
treated with pavers or exposed aggregate.
      (E)   A master signage plan illustrating all signage for the proposed use
shall be reviewed and approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission and the
Town Council. Such signage shall meet the minimum requirements of
Article VIII.
      (F)   The building setback shall be a minimum of sixty (60) feet from any
residential property line.
      (G)   The applicant must ensure the land use is consistent with the Land
Use Map of the Town’s General Plan. The analogous Land Use categories are Town
Center, Commercial or Garden Office designations.
      (H)   The applicant must establish that the application mitigates impacts
on adjacent properties such as lighting, noise and odors.
   (7)   A Special Use Permit for a Church (Place of Worship) shall meet the
following minimum criteria:
      (A)   The application for the Special Use Permit or amendment thereof
shall comply with the process prescribed in Article III., Section
3.07.
      (B)   The use shall be located adjacent to an arterial roadway as
identified in the Circulation Element of the Town’s General Plan.
      (C)   The applicant must establish that the application mitigates impacts
on adjacent properties such as lighting, noise and odors.
      (D)   The Place of Worship, accessory structure(s) and parking area shall
be set back a minimum of 100 feet from any residential property line.
      (E)   The parking area(s) shall be screened from any public street by a
three (3) foot high, horizontally undulating, solid masonry block wall and
native desert landscaping. A minimum of thirty-five (35) percent of the parking
area shall be treated with pavers or exposed aggregate.
      (F)   The building height may not exceed (unless otherwise approved by
Town Council) twenty-four (24) feet from natural and finished grade and thirty
(30) feet from the highest point of the roof to the lowest elevation of where
the building meets natural grade.
      (G)   All exterior lights shall be within pedestrian and parking areas
and shall consist of fully shielded bollard lights no more than three (3) feet
in height.
      (H)   A columbarium may be included within a Place of Worship. The
columbarium shall be placed within an interior courtyard and shielded from view
from the exterior of the site.
      (I)   A nursery school, preschool and/or ancillary religious school may
be conducted at the Place of Worship. The maximum enrollment shall be related
to the capacity of the class rooms, be proportional to the size of the
congregation and amount of parking dedicated to the school’s use (minimum 1
parking space per 2 students). All outdoor space (i.e. playgrounds) associated
with the school shall be placed in interior courtyards for safety, security and
mitigation of impacts on neighboring residential properties.
      (J)   One monument sign may be placed at the primary entrance at the
arterial street. Such sign may not exceed four (4) feet in height and six (6)
feet in width. The sign may contain the address and name of the Place of
Worship but no other text. The text may be halo lighted. No banner signs
advertising special events (i.e. fundraisers) or the school (i.e. enrollment
periods) will be permitted.
      (K)   The land use shall be consistent with the Town’s General Plan Land
Use map.
   (8)   Mixed use residential and non-residential uses are permitted, pursuant
to the following regulations (Ord. #2013-03; Ord. #2016-6):
      (A)   In existing buildings, one (1) or more residential dwelling unit(s)
are allowed, subject to approval by the Zoning Administrator and the following
criteria:
         1)   Such residential units are not allowed on the first floor and/or
street level of the subject building.
         2)   Prior to residential occupancy, approval is required by the
Carefree Building Department for any change in the building occupancy use
classification, pursuant to the Town’s building code regulations.
         3)   Each unit shall be used exclusively for residential occupancy and
shall be occupied by no more than one (1) housekeeping unit.
         4)   Accessory uses are allowed subject to Section
5.02(2).
         5)   Shared housekeeping facilities for multiple housekeeping units
are prohibited.
         6)   A minimum of two (2) onsite parking spaces per residential unit
are required. Such spaces shall be specifically reserved for the associated
residential units.
         7)   Any improvements related to the residential units shall be
designed such that the exterior of the building blends in with the
architectural treatment, forms and style of the overall building. The intent is
to establish the different uses within the subject building in a manner that
ties them together in a whole, consistent appearance.
      (B)   A Conditional Use Permit is required to allow new mixed use
commercial and residential condominiums within a Commercial zoning district,
and shall meet the following minimum criteria:
         1)   The application for the Conditional Use Permit or amendment
thereof shall comply with the process prescribed in Article III., Section
3.08.
         2)   The minimum property size (net lot area) to permit residential
condominiums within the commercial zoning district is 43,560 square feet (1
acre). All properties shall be internal to the Town Center and shall contain
frontage on Easy Street. Any property within the Town Center containing
frontage on Tom Darlington Drive, Cave Creek Road or Bloody Basin Road shall
not be considered under this Conditional Use Permit for a mixed use development
(residential and commercial uses). Additionally, any property outside of the
Town Center as defined by the General Plan Land Use Map shall not be considered
for this Conditional Use Permit for a mixed use development (residential and
commercial uses).
         3)   The minimum size of each residential condominium shall be 1,200
square feet of livable area. A residential condominium plat shall be approved
by the Planning and Zoning Commission. All units shall be used solely for
residential occupancy.
         4)   All properties containing residential condominiums shall have
commercial space maintained at street level unless otherwise approved by Town
Council. If offices are proposed, the gross square footage of the commercial
use at street level may not contain more than 25% offices unless otherwise
approved by Town Council. An office associated with retail space is exempt from
this requirement.
         5)   All required parking for the residential and commercial uses
shall meet the minimum requirements set forth in this Ordinance unless
otherwise approved by the Town Council through a development agreement.
         6)   A minimum of one half (½) of the required parking for the
development, unless otherwise approved by Town Council, shall be placed below
the adjacent street curb. All other required parking shall be placed at street
level adjacent to or behind store fronts or as approved by Town Council.
Parking placed behind store fronts shall be screened from pedestrian traffic
along Easy Street.
         7)   The building’s maximum height above finished grade (measured from
finished floor elevation to ridge of roof or top of parapet) shall not exceed
thirty-seven (37) feet. Parking which is fully recessed below finished grade
(no day lighting) shall be exempt from maximum building height. In order to
adequately screen roof top mechanical equipment, an additional six (6) feet may
be permitted. Such screening shall be integrated into the architecture of the
building through complementing mansard roof forms with varying slopes and
vertical parapets. Elevator shafts and stair wells which are placed near the
center of the mechanical equipment enclosure and/or roof deck may extend a
maximum of nine (9) feet above the roof deck.
         8)   Along any public street, above eighteen (18) feet in height from
finished floor elevation and up to the maximum building height of thirty-seven
(37) feet from finished floor elevation, the building facade shall step back ½
foot (6 inches) for every foot in height. To permit horizontal undulation of
the building façade to highlight building masses and to allow for separation
between condominium balconies, a maximum of forty-five (45) percent of any
elevation (façade) along any public street will be exempt from this step back
requirement unless otherwise approved by the Town Council. Canopies or other
shade structures may encroach within the building step back envelope.
         9)   Arcades shall extend a minimum of ten (10) feet from the building
façade towards the property line and shall not exceed a height of eighteen (18)
feet from finished floor elevation unless otherwise approved by Town Council.
Shade trellises or awnings shall extend a minimum of six (6) feet from the
building façade towards the property line. Where arcades, trellises or awnings
are not used along the Easy Street retail frontage, native trees shall be used.
         10)   Lot coverage shall not exceed seventy percent (70%) of the net
lot area. Arcades, shade structures and parking structures (covered parking
decks) are excluded from lot coverage.
   (9)   The existing Desert Forest Golf Course is an allowed use in the R1-35
zoning district. The existing Boulders Golf Course is an allowed use in the R1-
18 zoning district. Any new expansion (i.e. additional of golf holes,
enlargement of a maintenance building), shall be subject to the approval of a
Special Use Permit. No other golf courses are allowed in the Town of Carefree.
The application for the Special Use Permit shall comply with the process
prescribed in Article III., Section
3.07.
   (10)   Group home, providing that:
      (A)   No group home shall be located on a lot within one thousand three
hundred twenty (1,320) feet, measured by a straight line in any direction, from
the lot line of another group home.
      (B)   When required by state or federal regulation, the home is licensed
by, certified by, approved by, registered with, or under contract with a
federal, state, or local government and evidence of such is provided to the
Zoning Administrator.
      (C)   No exterior change altering the residential character shall be made
to the exterior of the building(s) and/or the grounds.
      (D)   A zoning clearance for the group home must be granted by the Zoning
Administrator.
      (E)   An administrative record of each group home is maintained by the
Zoning Administrator.
   (11)   The keeping of horses or other equines providing that:
      (A)   The primary residence first exists on the property.
      (B)   The horses are for the use of the family residing on the premises
and guests only.
      (C)   The number of horses or other equines shall be limited to one (1)
horse for each contiguous gross acre under single ownership and shall not
exceed six (6) horses.
      (D)   A stable shall not exceed six hundred (600) square feet (area under
roof) per horse with a maximum size of 3,600 square feet (area under roof) .
      (E)   Stables shall be located in other than a required yard (building
setback) and shall maintain a setback of at least one-hundred (100) feet from
any lot line.
      (F)   A shade structure shall be limited to 300 square feet (area under
roof) per horse with a maximum size of 1,800 square feet (area under roof).
      (G)   No stable or shade structure shall exceed fifteen (15) feet in
height from the finished grade.
      (H)   The provisions of the Maricopa County Health Code and all
amendments thereto shall apply to the keeping of horses within the Town, even
when those provisions are more restrictive than other parts of this subsection.
      (I)   Fences or walls establishing the perimeter of a corral used in the
keeping of horses or other equines shall be located in other than a required
yard (building setback) and shall maintain a setback of at least one-hundred
(100) feet from any lot line.
      (J)   There shall be no more than one stable or shade structure per lot.
   (12)   No retail sales are allowed.
   (13)   Medical Marijuana Cultivation, Infusion or Manufacturing facilities
are prohibited. The Conditional Use Permit for a Medical Marijuana Dispensary
shall meet the following minimum criteria (Ord. #2011-02):
      (A)   The applicant shall submit a copy of the operating procedures for
the medical marijuana dispensary facility adopted in compliance with Arizona
Revises Statute § 36-2804(B)(1)(c).
      (B)   The dispensary facility shall be located in a permanent building
and shall not be located in a trailer, cargo container, motor vehicle,
recreation vehicle or any temporary structure.
      (C)   The area of the dispensary facility shall not exceed 1,500 gross
square feet.
      (D)   The dispensary facility shall have operating hours not earlier than
9 a.m. and not later than 6 p.m. Monday through Friday, and not earlier than 10
a.m. and not later than 6 p.m. Saturday and Sunday.
      (E)   Drive-through services are prohibited.
      (F)   Cultivation and infusion (manufacturing) of medical marijuana are
prohibited.
      (G)   Marijuana remnants and/or byproducts shall not be placed within
exterior refuse container(s) or disposed of onsite by any other means and shall
be disposed of by a certified offsite waste disposal service in conformance
with state and federal requirements.
      (H)   Off-site delivery and on-site consumption of medical marijuana are
prohibited.
      (I)   The dispensary facility shall not be located within 1,320 linear
feet (¼ mile) of any other medical marijuana cultivation, infusion or
manufacturing facility or another medical marijuana dispensary. This distance
shall be measured from the exterior walls of the building or portion thereof in
which the dispensary facility is located to the closest point of the property
boundary line of the other facility.
      (J)   The dispensary facility shall not be located within five hundred
(500) linear feet of any residential property located in the Rural-190, Rural-
70, Rural-43, R1-35, R1-18, R1-10, and/or R-3 zoning districts. This distance
shall be measured from the exterior walls or portion thereof in which the
dispensary facility is located or proposed to be located to the closest point
of the property boundary line of the residential property.
      (K)   The dispensary facility shall not be located within five hundred
(500) linear feet of any preschool, kindergarten, elementary, secondary and/or
high school. This distance shall be measured from the exterior walls or portion
thereof in which the dispensary facility is located or proposed to be located
to the closest point of the property boundary line of the school.
      (L)   The applicant shall submit a survey sealed by a registered land
surveyor of the State of Arizona showing that the location of the nearest
medical marijuana dispensary, cultivation, infusion or manufacturing facility
is not located within 1,320 linear feet (¼ mile) of the proposed dispensary
facility and within five hundred (500) linear feet of any preschool,
kindergarten, elementary, secondary and/or high school and/or any residential
property located in the Rural-190, Rural-70, Rural-43, R1-35, R1-18, R1-10,
and/or R-3 zoning districts.
   (14)   A Special Use Permit for a Nursery School shall meet the following
minimum criteria:
      (A)   The application for the Special Use Permit or amendment thereof
shall comply with the process prescribed in Article III., Section
3.07.
      (B)   The building and accessory uses shall be set back a minimum of one
hundred (100) feet from any abutting residential property.
      (C)   The applicant must establish that the application mitigates impacts
on adjacent properties such as lighting, noise and odors.
      (D)   The parking area(s) shall be screened from adjacent properties by a
horizontally undulating three (3) foot solid masonry block wall and desert
landscaping.
      (E)   Enrollment of the school shall be limited to the number set by the
Town Council. Such cap shall establish the maximum enrollment for each academic
year. The cap shall be based upon building code occupancy requirements,
satisfaction of required parking and adequate landscape buffer to mitigate
increased lights and noise levels impacting adjacent properties. If, in the
future, the applicant wishes to increase the enrollment levels originally
permitted, the Planning and Zoning Commission and Town Council shall review
such request based upon satisfaction of the criteria specified in this
paragraph. Enrollment numbers shall be provided by the school administration to
the Zoning Administrator prior to the first day of the academic year and during
the mid-point of the academic year.
   (15)   A Conditional Use Permit for a Public Park shall meet the following
minimum criteria:
      (A)   The application for the Conditional Use Permit or amendment thereof
shall comply with the process prescribed in Article III., Section
3.08.
      (B)   Turf shall be minimized to play fields or informal play areas.
      (C)   Parking area(s) shall be screened from public view by a combination
of horizontally undulating solid masonry walls (no higher than three feet from
finished grade) and desert landscaping.
      (D)   A minimum of thirty-five (35) percent of the parking lot shall be
paved in pavers or exposed aggregate.
      (E)   Any lighting shall be fully shielded and directed towards play
surfaces. A photometric plan is required to ensure that no light spillage onto
adjacent properties.
   (16)   Subject to allowed uses:
      (A)   Offices for accountant, architect, podiatrist, chiropractor,
dentist, surgeon, surveyor, optometrist, geologist, insurance broker, public
stenographer, real estate broker, stock broker, advertising agency, investment
company, title company, marriage counselor, private detective, telephone
message service, collection agency, and other similar professional and semi-
professional work.
      (B)   Studios for photography, fine or commercial arts, or other
professional work.
      (C)   Pharmacy and the sale or dispensing of optical goods, but only as
an appurtenant use of an office building which is used primarily as a medical
or optometrist’s office. The entrance to such pharmacy or dispensary shall be
from within the office building. No sign or display advertising or identifying
the pharmacy or dispensary shall be located such that it is visible from a
public thoroughfare or adjacent property.
      (D)   Snack bar or cafeteria, but only as an appurtenant use of an office
building or buildings containing offices occupied by thirty (30) or more
employees. Such snack bar or cafeteria shall accommodate no more than twenty
(20) patrons at one time. No sign or display advertising or identifying the
snack bar or cafeteria shall be located such that it is visible from a public
thoroughfare or adjacent property.
   (17)   Subject to:
      (A)   All plants shall be kept inside a completely enclosed wall.
      (B)   All non-plant material shall be kept inside a completely enclosed
building.
   (18)   A Special Use Permit for public facilities/utilities such as water,
gas, electricity, telephone, telegraph, steam, hot or cold air (including but
not limited to attendant facilities and appurtenances to the above uses,
distribution, collector, and feeder lines; pumping or booster stations along
pipelines; and substations along electric transmission lines, but not including
public utility treatment and generating plants or offices) shall meet the
following minimum criteria:
      (A)   The application for the Special Use Permit or amendment thereof
shall comply with the process prescribed in Article III., Section
3.07.
      (B)   The sewer treatment facility located within the Boulders community
shall not be allowed to increase its capacity nor be allowed to expand.
      (C)   It is the intent of the Town of Carefree that any of the above
facilities shall be underground or shall maximize the use of stealth technology
to mitigate the visual effects on the surrounding community.
      (D)   The existing Black Mountain Sewer Company, Carefree Water Company,
and Cave Creek Water Company are allowed uses.
   (19)   Provided no adult oriented facilities are allowed.
   (20)   All items to be rented or sold shall be placed inside a completely
enclosed building or under a covered arcade. Displays of materials or goods
located outside the building shall not impede pedestrian circulation.
   (21)   All items to be repaired shall be kept inside a completely enclosed
building. Repair shop does not include servicing or repair of motor vehicles.
   (22)   Including outdoor dining if a site plan showing the outdoor dining is
approved by the Development Review Board.
   (23)   A Special Use Permit for a School shall meet the following minimum
criteria:
      (A)   The application for the Special Use Permit or amendment thereof
shall comply with the process prescribed in Article III., Section
3.07.
      (B)   The School shall be limited to a place of general education,
including colleges.
      (C)   The building and accessory uses shall be set back a minimum of one
hundred (100) feet from any abutting residential property.
      (D)   The applicant must establish that the application mitigates impacts
on adjacent properties such as lighting, noise and odors.
      (E)   The parking lot shall be screened from adjacent properties by a
horizontally undulating three (3) foot high solid masonry block wall and desert
landscaping.
      (F)   Enrollment of the School shall be set by the Town Council. Such cap
shall establish the maximum enrollment for each academic year. The cap shall be
based upon building code occupancy requirements, satisfaction of required
parking and adequate landscape buffer to mitigate increased lights and noise
levels impacting adjacent properties. If, in the future, the applicant wishes
to increase the enrollment levels originally permitted, the Planning and Zoning
Commission and Town Council shall review such request based upon satisfaction
of the criteria specified in this paragraph. Enrollment numbers shall be
provided by the school administration to the Zoning Administrator prior to the
first day of the academic year and during the mid-point of the academic year.
   (24)   A Special Use Permit for a Service Station shall meet the following
minimum criteria:
      (A)   The application for the Special Use Permit or amendment thereof
shall comply with the process prescribed in Article III., Section
3.07.
      (B)   A Service Station may include vehicle repair, tire shops,
windshield replacement/repair, body shop, and other similar uses.
      (C)   The service station shall not provide food, liquor, prepared foods
or other goods typical of a convenience store/market unless otherwise approved
by Town Council.
      (D)   All vehicles being serviced must be placed within the garage or
designated parking areas that are screened from public view by walls and
landscaping.
      (E)   Exterior display(s) are not permitted. No advertisements or
promotional goods and/or services shall be displayed outside of the station nor
anywhere near or on the service pumps.
      (F)   The Service Station shall not include self service or full service
car washes.
      (G)   A Service Station shall be located along an arterial street as
defined by the Town’s Circulation Element of the General Plan.
      (H)   The canopy over the service pumps shall not exceed a height of
fourteen (14) feet above finished grade. The exterior light lenses shall be
mounted flush with the canopy. No commercial colors or logos shall be placed
anywhere on the canopy. Stone veneer shall be used on the columns supporting
the canopy and muted desert tones on all other surfaces.
      (I)   The existing Service Station at the southeast corner of Tom
Darlington Drive and Cave Creek Road is an allowed use. Any major modification
(as determined by the Zoning Administrator) to this service station will
require site plan approval by the Development Review Board.
      (J)   The applicant must establish that the application mitigates impacts
on adjacent properties such as lighting, noise and odors.
   (25)   A Special Use Permit for a Supervisory Care Facility shall meet the
following minimum criteria:
      (A)   The application for the Special Use Permit or amendment thereof
shall comply with the process prescribed in Article III., Section
3.07.
      (B)   The use shall be located adjacent to an arterial roadway as
identified in the Circulation Element of the Town’s General Plan.
      (C)   A minimum building setback of sixty (60) feet shall be maintained
along any abutting residential property.
      (D)   The density of the development may not exceed one unit for each
3,250 square feet of net lot area (excluding the right-of-way). A unit for a
Supervisory Care Facility shall be defined as being one bedroom. In the case of
communal bedrooms such as a sleeping porch, every two beds will be counted as
one unit. If the number of beds are not an even count, the number of units will
be rounded up (example: 5 beds = 3 units).
      (E)   The building height may not exceed eighteen (18) feet from natural
and finished grade and twenty-five (25) feet from the highest point of the
sloped roof or parapet to lowest elevation where the building pad meets natural
grade.
      (F)   Minimum lot size for Supervisory Care Facility shall be three (3)
acres.
      (G)   Any parking lot shall be screened from the street or adjacent
residential property by a horizontally undulating solid masonry wall and native
desert landscaping. The parking shall meet the minimum requirements of Article
VII. Section
7.01,
Table 7.1 (including one space per each unit and one space per each employee or
contracted employee). A minimum of thirty-five (35) percent of the parking area
shall be treated with pavers or exposed aggregate.
      (H)   The applicant must establish that the application mitigates impacts
on adjacent properties such as lights, noise and odors. Furthermore, the
applicant must ensure the land use is consistent with the Land Use Map of the
Town’s General Plan. The analogous Land Use categories are Moderate Density
Residential, Town Center, Commercial or Garden Office designations.
      (I)   Any amendment to the approved Special Use Permit after it is
granted by the Town Council including but not limited to the addition of units,
parking spaces or supporting facilities/amenities shall comply with the
provisions prescribed in Article III., Section
3.07. Any amendment must satisfy the requirements of the Zoning Ordinance and
any applicable State or Federal law.
   (26)   A Special Use Permit for a Veterinary Clinic shall meet the following
minimum criteria:
      (A)   The application for the Special Use Permit or amendment thereof
shall comply with the process prescribed in Article III., Section
3.07.
      (B)   Provided no overnight boarding is allowed except for medical
observation or surgical follow up. The outdoor kenneling of pets is prohibited.
   (27)   A Special Use Permit for a Warehouse shall meet the following minimum
criteria:
      (A)   The application for the Special Use Permit or amendment thereof
shall comply with the process prescribed in Article III., Section
3.07.
      (B)   A use shall be determined to be a Warehouse if more than sixty-five
(65) percent of the gross floor area is dedicated for storage purposes.
      (C)   To ensure compatibility to surrounding commercial uses, all doors
to the Warehouse shall consist of a solid wood material or similar treatment.
In addition, a minimum of fifty (50) percent of all building elevations shall
be treated with material other than stucco. Natural stone, stone veneer, slate,
rammed earth or similar materials are viable alternatives to stucco.
      (D)   The maximum building height shall be sixteen (16) feet above
natural and finished grade. Beyond sixteen (16) feet from natural and finished
grade, up to a maximum height of twenty-four (24) feet from natural and
finished grade, the building shall be stepped back a minimum of two (2) feet
for every foot above sixteen (16) feet.
      (E)   Building setbacks shall be a minimum of thirty (30) feet from any
abutting commercial property and sixty (60) feet from any abutting residential
property (excluding right-of-way).
      (F)   All loading and unloading areas shall be screened from view from
public streets and adjacent properties by a combination of desert landscaping
and horizontally undulating masonry walls.
      (G)   A minimum of fifty (50) percent of the parking lot and loading
areas shall be treated with pavers or exposed aggregate.
      (H)   The applicant must establish that the application mitigates impacts
on adjacent properties such as lighting, noise and odors.
   (28)   The Conditional Use Permit for a Wireless Communication Facility
shall meet the following minimum criteria.
      (A)   The application for the Conditional Use Permit or amendment thereof
shall comply with the process prescribed in Article III., Section
3.08.
      (B)   All Wireless Communication Facilities shall consist of stealth
applications to ensure antennas, conduit/cabling, and associated equipment are
not visible to the public.
      (C)   No Wireless Communication Facility shall be permitted on developed
or undeveloped lots where the primary use is or is platted for a single-family
dwelling.
      (D)   No monopoles or towers are permitted in any zoning district.
      (E)   Rooftop mounted equipment shall be screened from off-site views by
solid screen walls or building parapets. Rooftop antennas shall be placed
behind a RF friendly fiberglass material which emulates the texture, form, and
color of surrounding architectural features or elements.
      (F)   Antennas mounted to a building façade shall be a minimum of one
foot below the top of the respective façade, and shall be painted the color of
the respective façade. No cable or conduit shall be visible and antennas shall
be a maximum of twelve (12) inches from the surface of the façade.
      (G)   All ground mounted equipment shall be screened by walls using
building materials or colors that blend into the surrounding natural and/or
physical environment.
      (H)   Any Wireless Communication Facility not in use for six (6) or more
months shall be removed by the service provider or property owner. This removal
shall occur within ninety (90) days of the end of such six-month period.
      (I)   A Conditional Use Permit for an amateur radio transmission tower
shall comply with the process prescribed in Article III., Section
3.08 and applicable FCC regulations.
   (29)   Small Wireless Service Facilities in the ROW (Ord. #2018-03)
      (A)   Purpose. To establish appropriate locations, site development
standards, and permit requirements to allow for Small Wireless Facilities to be
located in the rights-of-way as required by A.R.S. § 9-591 et. seq., subject to
such small wireless facilities meeting the objective design standards and
stealth and concealment requirements provided in this section.
      (B)   Applicability. The requirements of this ordinance apply to all new
SWFs in the rights-of-way and modification of any existing SWFs.
      (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this Section, the following terms
shall have the meanings prescribed herein unless the context clearly requires
otherwise:
         1)   "Antenna" means communication equipment that transmits or
receives electromagnetic radio frequency signals and that is used as part of a
Small Wireless Facility;
         2)   "Collocation" means the use of a single mount and/or site by more
than one small wireless service provider;
         3)   "Design" means the appearance of a Small Wireless Facility,
including but not limited to its material, color or shape;
         4)   "Equipment cabinet" means an enclosed box that is either located
in a vault at or near the base of the SWF which contains, among other things,
batteries and electrical equipment (hereinafter referred to as "equipment").
This equipment is connected to the antenna by underground cables.
         5)   "Modification" means any physical or operational change,
alteration, or other modification of any of the following as they relate to a
Small Wireless Facility or the subject property upon which it is located,
including but not limited to:
            a)   The site plan;
            b)   The sight line representation;
            c)   The design submittal as required in this Section;
            d)   The conversion of a single-use Small Wireless Facility to a
collocation is also considered a modification;
         6)   "Monopole" means a type of mount that is self-supporting with a
single shaft of steel or concrete or other acceptable material that is not more
than forty inches in diameter at ground level and that has all of the small
wireless facilities mounted on the pole or contained inside the pole;
         7)   “Permittee” means a Small Wireless Facility permit applicant who
has an approved permit;
         8)   "Small Wireless Facility" or “SWF” means any of several
technologies using radio signals at various frequencies to send and receive
voice, data or video to and from mobile transceivers; which are composed of two
(2) or more of the following components:
            a)   Antennas that are no more than six cubic feet in volume;
            b)   Faux Cactus or replacement Utility Pole;
            c)   Equipment cabinet less than twenty-eight cubic feet in volume;
            d)   Underground vault for equipment;
            e)   Electric meter (where required by law);
            f)   Grounding Equipment and a power transfer switch.
         9)   "Small Wireless Services" means commercial mobile radio services,
unlicensed wireless services and common carrier wireless exchange access
services as defined in the Telecommunications Act of 1996, and any amendments
thereto, and any services that are provided to the public and that use licensed
or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile and that use
small wireless facilities;
         10)   "Siting" means the method and form of placement of a small
wireless facility on a specific area of a subject property pursuant to the
provisions of this Section;
         11)   "Subject Property" means all the specific rights-of-way upon
which a small wireless facility is either proposed to be, or already is,
developed, located, constructed or operated; and
         12)   “Utility Pole” means a pole or similar structure that is used in
whole or in part for communications services, electric distribution, lighting
or traffic signals, but excludes a monopole and/or decorative light fixtures
located in Carefree Town Center.
      (D)   General Requirements.
         1)   In order to locate a SWF in the Town’s rights-of-way, a Permittee
must obtain or hold a Master License Agreement with the Town of Carefree.
         2)   No SWF may be developed, located, constructed or operated without
an Administrative Small Wireless Facility Permit. An Administrative Small
Wireless Facility Permit is also required for any modification to a SWF.
         3)   Once an Administrative Small Wireless Facility Permit is
approved, the Permittee may submit for a building permit.
         4)   The process for an Administrative Small Wireless Facility Permit
shall be:
            a)   Determination of a complete application by the Zoning
Administrator or designee. An application on a form prescribed by the Town
shall be submitted and fees paid by the applicant at the time of submission of
the application. The Town shall have twenty (20) days to deem the application
complete as well as determine if the applicant is applying for compliance with
the objective design standard, the alternate objective design standard or
neither according to submittal requirements found on the application form.
            b)   Review by the staff of the proposed site or an alternate site
within one hundred (100) feet that maintains the technical needs of the
Applicant and blends with the existing built and natural environment.
            c)   An Applicant who chooses not to comply with the objective
design and concealment standards or the alternative provided for herein shall
follow the requirements for a special use permit for a new utility pole under
the provisions of
Article III, Administration, Section
3.07 Special Use Permit. All applications for monopoles within the Town rights-
of-way shall be excluded from the Application process for SWFs and shall
instead be subject to
Article III herein.
         5)   The objective design standards for the Town that achieve
reasonable stealth and concealment are:
            a)   Generally described as a twenty-four foot faux cactus.
            b)   If an Applicant can demonstrate a technical reason why the
specified faux cactus SWF will not provide coverage/capacity consistent with
small wireless facility industry standards, an Applicant may request to locate
on an alternate site of an existing or replaced traffic signal pole or street
light pole consistent with the specification noted below.
            c)   If no existing or replacement utility pole exists, the
Applicant may request a new SWF through the Town’s Special Use Permit process
outlined in
Article III herein.
      (E)   Siting Standards. The following siting criteria apply to
consideration of an Administrative Small Wireless Facility Permit for a SWF:
         (1)   After an Applicant identifies an area to site a Small Wireless
Facility, Town staff shall evaluate the area near the site with the Applicant
to find the optimal location for the small wireless facility (said area to
include the total area within a one hundred foot radius of the Applicant’s
preferred site), with initial siting to be objectively chosen based on the
following criteria:
            a)   Safety.
               i.   Sites should not be located within the Town’s corner vision
view triangle near street or driveway intersections so as to not be in areas
where car accidents are more frequent, that is, near the intersection of
streets;
               ii.   Sites should be spaced as far back from the sidewalk or
street curb so as to not pose a hazard to bicyclists, pedestrians or vehicular
traffic; and
               iii.   In order to maintain a safe “fall zone” a SWF shall be
set back from existing habitable structures on private property by a distance
equal to the height of the top of the antenna structure, plus an additional ten
feet.
            b)   Appearance.
               i.   New SWFs shall be located in areas where they can blend
into the existing built and natural environment, that is, in areas where
existing trees and shrubs of size similar to the antenna height already exist
and where the addition of the antenna to the built environment will least
affect the view sheds from neighboring properties.
               ii.   Depending upon the degree to which the SWF "blends with"
or "disturbs" the setting, the subject property and its character and use, or
neighboring properties and their character and use, staff may request that
additional landscaping be installed as part of the approval. The SWF
landscaping may include trees, mature vegetation, natural features or
hardscaping within the rights-of-way area surrounding the SWF.
               iii.   All equipment shall be located within the faux cactus
structure to the greatest extent possible, and all other equipment shall be
located underground or within a faux rock to the greatest extent possible. At
no time is the “other equipment” to extend beyond the rights-of-way area.
               iv.   No signage shall be placed on a faux cactus.
               v.   If equipment cabinets are deemed necessary by the Town,
they shall be completely screened from view by a compatible wall, fence or
landscaping consistent with the Town landscaping guidelines and consistent with
this ordinance. Any utility meter associated with the SWF shall face away from
the street or shall be camouflaged in some manner.
            c)   Form. The degree to which the shape of the SWF and any
equipment shall relate to its surroundings.
            d)   Color. A SWF shall be in natural tones and a non-reflective
color or color scheme appropriate to the background against which the SWF would
be viewed from a majority of points within its viewshed. "Natural" tones are
those reflected in the natural features and structural background against which
the SWF is viewed from a majority of points within its viewshed. Final colors
and color scheme must be approved by staff.
            e)   Strength. Any SWF shall be designed to withstand the
requirements related to wind loads in the most current building code adopted by
the Town.
            f)   Cumulative Visual Effect. To the extent allowed by law, staff
shall consider the cumulative visual effects of SWFs and any mount,
specifically their appearance or domination of the skyline, natural and
structural features or terrain, in determining whether to approve an
Administrative Small Wireless Facility Permit.
      (F)   Design Standards and Aesthetics Mandate the Use of “Faux Cactus”
SWFs. To maximize the concealment of SWFs, the first type of antenna and
support structure to be considered shall be a faux cactus installation designed
as follows:
         (1)   Shall utilize the Larson Camouflage model LCA-0-24-24 fiberglass
antenna structure or equivalent, maximum twenty four foot tall from the ground
or base;
         (2)   Shall contain standard details, such as dimensions, colors and
materials, the same as those used for the existing faux cactus installation
throughout the Town (please refer to standard details provided in the
application);
         (3)   Shall be designed to the greatest extent possible to look like
part of the natural environment, thus they shall not be placed in existing
concrete such as a sidewalk nor shall concrete be placed around the base of the
facility except as needed to anchor and support the structural elements of the
SWF, with such concrete anchor to be hidden by earth, rocks, decomposed granite
and the planting of two (2) trees and three (3) shrubs near the base or
alternate landscape as approved by the Town;
         (4)   All ground mounted equipment and connections shall be buried
with the exception of the utility meter which shall face away from the street
and the disconnect switch;
      (G)   Alternative Design Standards Utilizing an Existing Utility Pole. If
an Applicant can demonstrate a technical reason why the specified faux cactus
SWF will not provide coverage/capacity consistent with Small Wireless Facility
industry standards, an Applicant may propose the use of a Utility Pole SWF
installation, for which the following design and concealment criteria shall be
used:
         (1)   If the selected Utility Pole is a traffic signal or street
light, the existing traffic signal or street light shall be replaced with a new
engineered street light or traffic signal pole design that has the appropriate
structural support strength including any footing modifications to accommodate
the height and weight of the antenna and equipment located within the
replacement pole;
         (2)   The maximum height of the replacement pole shall not be more
than six feet above the pre-existing height of the street light vertical pole
or traffic signal vertical pole that it replaced (not including the mast arm);
         (3)   All antennas and “pole-mounted” equipment shall be within a
cylinder or container (or within the replacement pole) that is within two (2)
inches of the width or diameter of the adjoining utility pole, with said
container width or diameter not to exceed twenty inches. The only protrusions
or extensions from the pole shall be those that existed before the replacement
pole, that is, in the case of street lights and traffic signals the mast arms
or other supports for street lights, street name signs, and traffic signals;
         (4)   All wiring associated with the SWF shall be contained within the
replacement pole or underground;
         (5)   All ground mounted equipment and connections shall be buried
with the exception of the utility meter and the disconnect switch;
         (6)   Shall contain standard details, such as dimensions, colors and
materials, the same as those used for the existing 56th Street and Lincoln
traffic signal installation that is consistent with the standard details in the
application.
      (H)   Radiofrequency (RF) Performance and Interference Standards and
Monitoring.
         (1)   To the extent allowed by law, the following radiofrequency (RF)
maximum permissible exposure standards apply to consideration of an
Administrative Small Wireless Facility Permit for a SWF, in addition to
monitoring requirements as required in this Article:
            a)   All equipment proposed for a SWF shall meet the current FCC RF
Guidelines and any amendments thereto (hereafter "FCC Guidelines");
            b)   Applicant shall provide graphics to illustrate RF radiation
level in terms of percent of FCC Public and Occupational limits.
               i.   For all applications, a graphic shall illustrate RF
exposure levels that may exceed the FCC limits in all areas that are readily
accessible to the public, including habitable structures.
               ii.   For SWFs attached to utility poles or any other structures
not owned by the Applicant, graphically shall illustrate in three dimensions
the worst case exposure levels that exceed FCC limits for service personnel
accessing the area near the SWF exposure zones. If the graphic illustration
exceeds the FCC exposure limit in any area accessible to workers who would work
on maintenance or repair to the traffic signals, lights, or utility wiring on
the utility pole, a narrative must be supplied containing all the information
required to provide an RF Safety plan to protect workers from RF exposure above
the FCC limits.
         (2)   Within ninety (90) days after FCC issuance of an operational
permit for the SWF the Permittee shall submit a written report providing
existing measurements and worst case predictions of RF power density levels
from the SWF for:
            a)   Existing SWF: Report the maximum RF power density levels
(spatially averaged per FCC Guidelines) measured in the areas identified as
readily accessible to the public or workers;
            b)   Existing SWF plus cumulative: Maximum estimate of RF power
density levels(spatially averaged per FCC Guidelines) measured in the SWF RF
environment to be inclusive of any other significant contributors to the RF
environment (i.e. co-located SWF). Definition of “Significant Contributors” to
be any contributor >5% of the FCC Public limit at any measurement location;
            c)   Certification signed by a competent person stating that RF
radiation measurements are performed with properly calibrated test equipment
and meet FCC Guidelines.
         (3)   If FCC Guidelines are changed during the period of any
Administrative Small Wireless Facility Permit for a SWF use, then the SWF shall
be brought into compliance with such revised guidelines within the time period
provided by the FCC; or if no time period is stated, then within sixty (60)
days of the effective date of such guidelines.
         (4)   If at any time during the term of the permit the Town has
reasonable evidence that the Permittee is not in compliance with FCC
Guidelines, and the Town provides notice of such, the Permittee so notified
shall provide to the Town, within thirty (30) days after such notice, an
analysis and determination of its compliance with FCC guidelines showing the
data collected and status not meet FCC Guidelines, the Permittee shall
immediately turn off the SWF and shall have sixty (60) days from the date of
the Town's finding of noncompliance to bring the SWF into compliance. If
compliance is not achieved in the sixty-day period, the Administrative Small
Wireless Facility Permit may be revoked or modified by the Town.
         (5)   The Permittee shall ensure that the SWF does not cause localized
interference with the reception of other FCC licensed services. If on review
the Town finds that the SWF interferes with such reception, and if such
interference is not cured by the Permittee within sixty (60) days after notice
from the Town, the Town may revoke or modify the Administrative Small Wireless
Facility Permit.
      (I)   Noise and Environmental Standards.
         (1)   To the extent allowed by law, the following noise and
environmental standards apply to consideration of an Administrative Small
Wireless Facility Permit for a SWF in addition to the monitoring requirements
of this Article:
            a)   A SWF shall not generate noise in excess of fifty (50)
decibels (dba) at ground level at the base of the facility closest to the
antenna;
            b)   An environmental assessment is required by the National
Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) for any SWF prior to commencing operations
where any of the following exist:
               i.   Wilderness area;
               ii.   Wildlife preserve;
               iii.   Endangered species;
               iv.   Historical site;
               v.   Indian religious site;
               vi.   FEMA designated flood plain;
         (2)   An environmental assessment which, at a minimum, conforms to FCC
requirements shall be submitted to the Town for each SWF where any of the above
exists, and when the FCC requires such an environmental assessment to be
submitted to the FCC. If the Applicant has determined that an environmental
assessment is not required pursuant to FCC rules, this Article and applicable
state law and Town Code, a written certification to that effect must be
submitted to the Town. If an Applicant has not included an environmental
assessment that the Zoning Administrator finds to be necessary under the
National Environmental Policy Act, the Town may prepare, or cause to be
prepared, such an environmental assessment or reject the application as
incomplete. The environmental assessment shall be amended or revised by the
Applicant within thirty (30) days after notice to do so from the Town when
modifications are made or occur on the SWF. Failure to amend or revise shall
constitute grounds for revocation of the Administrative Small Wireless Facility
Permit.
         (3)   Within ninety (90) days from the date of approval of the permit,
the Permittee shall submit existing and maximum future projected measurements
of noise from the SWF for the following:
            a)   Existing SWF: Maximum noise level from the SWF. These
measurements shall be for the type of mounts specified in Subsection A of this
section;
            b)   Existing SWF plus cumulative: Maximum estimate of noise level
from the existing SWF plus the maximum estimate of noise level from the total
addition of co-located SWFs;
            c)   Certification signed by an acoustical engineer stating that
noise measurements are accurate and meet Subsection (3) of this section.
      (J)   Collocation and Limitations. Collocation of antennas and equipment
is permitted and encouraged on approved SWFs. All proposed co-locators must
also receive an Administrative Small Wireless Facility Permit for the use at
such site from the Town.
Section 5.03   Uses Permitted and Additional Requirements for the Open Space-
Recreation (OS-R) Zoning District. (Ord. #2013-01)
   (1)   The purposes of the Open Space-Recreation (OS-R) Zoning District are
as follows:
      (A)   Preserve natural open space, archaeological sites, natural
drainageways, wildlife habitat and movement, and other sensitive environmental
features.
      (B)   Sensitive environmental features include, but are not limited to
significant ridgelines rock outcroppings, view corridors, significant stands of
native vegetation, floodplains, steep slopes, and archaeological or historic
sites.
      (C)   Preserve scenic and environmental qualities, vies, and economic
value.
      (D)   Provide for passive public recreation via multipurpose pedestrian
paths, hiking trails, and horseback trails.
      (E)   Provide recreational facilities related to open space preservation,
open space recreation, hiking, horseback riding, educational and historical
information, picnic areas, ramadas, parking, signage and restrooms.
   (2)   Permitted Uses:
      (A)   The permitted uses are opens space and recreation facilities that
implement the above provisions in Section
5.03(1).
      (B)   Wireless Communications facilities shall require a Conditional Use
Permit in conformance with Section
5.02(30).
   (3)   Prior to development on any property zoned Open Space-Recreation, a
master open space development plan, which is in conformance with the provisions
set forth in section
5.03(1), shall be approved by the Town Council in a public meeting. Prior to
consideration by the Town Council, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall
review the master open space development plan in a public meeting and make a
recommendation to the Town Council.
Article VI.   INTENSITY SCHEDULE AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Section 6.01   Intensity Schedule and Development Standards
The table below shows the density schedule and development standards (listed in
the left hand column) required in each zoning district (columns labeled Rural-
190 through C). The number shown in the column is the required minimum or
maximum standard as applicable. If there is a number in parenthesis ( ) in the
column, there are additional conditions, provisions, and/or clarifications that
apply to that development standard in that zoning district. These conditions,
provisions, and/or clarifications will be found in the corresponding numbered
paragraphs listed in Section
6.02 of this Article.
Table 6.1: Intensity Schedule per Zoning District.
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
 Rural- Rural- Rural- R1-35 R1-18 R1-10 R-3 L GO C
 190    70     43
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
          Rural- Rural- Rural- R1-35  R1-18  R1-10  R-3    L      GO     C
          190    70     43
Maximum
Height -  24(1)  24(1)  24(1)  24(1)  24(1)  24(1)  24(1)  30(2)  30(2)  30(2)
Feet
Minimum
Front     60(3), 60(3), 40(3), 40(3), 30(3), 20(3), 25(3), 25(3), 40(6)  10(3),
Yard -    (6)    (6)    (6)    (6)    (6)    (6)    (6)    (6)           (6)
Feet
Minimum
Side Yard 30(6)  30(6)  30(6)  20(6)  10(6)  7(6)   10(6)  10(6)  20(6)  0(6)
- Feet
Minimum                                                                  0(5),
Rear Yard 60(6)  60(6)  40(6)  40(6)  30(6)  25(6)  25(6)  25(6)  40(6)  (6)
- Feet
Minimum
Lot Area  190,00 70,00  43,56  35,00  18,00  10,00  43,56  43,56  35,00  6,00 0
- Square  0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
Feet
Minimum
Lot Width 300    230    145    145    120    80     145    145    145    60
- Feet
Minimum
Lot Area
Per       190,00 70,00  43,56  35,00  18,00  10,00
Dwelling  0      0      0      0      0      0      6,000  N/A    N/A    N/A
Unit -
Square
Feet
Maximum
Lot
Coverage  6%(8)  13%(8) 17%(8) 20%(8) 25%(8) 30%(8) 50%(8) 60%(8) 25%(8) 60%(8)
- % (area
under
roof)
Maximum
Disturbed 18%(7) 39%(7) 51%(7) 60%(7) 75%    100%   100%   100%   75%    100 %
Lot Area
- %
 
Section 6.02   Additional Requirements and Clarifications
   (1)   Building Height and Massing, Residential Zoning District or Use: (Ord.
#2016-04)
      (A)   No part of any principal structure may rise more than twenty-four
(24) feet above its design grade.
      (B)   No wall of any principal structure shall exceed a height of more
than twenty (20) feet without a significant physical, architectural, or visual
break. Such physical break shall be a minimum of four (4) feet in width.
         i.   Massing: All residential buildings or structures greater than two
thousand (2,000) gross square feet shall be composed of at least three (3)
visual building masses of differing heights or planes.
      (C)   No part of any accessory structure shall rise more than sixteen
(16) feet above its design grade.
      (D)   No part of any accessory airplane hangar structure shall rise more
than twenty (20) feet above its design grade.
      (E)   This section shall not apply to amateur radio transmission towers
in excess of twenty-five (25) feet for which Conditional Use Permits have been
issued.
      (F)   A chimney shall rise no more than three (3) feet above the highest
parapet or roof ridge.
      (G)   In the R-3 zoning district, roof screen-walls up to four (4) feet
in height will not be included in the height calculations only if they are
located a minimum of fifteen (15) feet away from the edge of the roof or
building parapet.
      (H)   Buildings, structures, or any portion thereof, exceeding a height
of twenty (20) feet above design grade shall not be erected or structurally
altered within five hundred (500) feet of the projected center line of an
airport runway or landing strip for a distance of one thousand (1,000) feet
from the end of the runway. Beyond a distance of one thousand (1,000) feet from
the end of the runway or landing strip, buildings, structures, or any portion
thereof shall not be erected to exceed a height that would interfere with the
takeoff or landing of a plane with a glide angle of one (1) foot vertical for
every forty (40) feet horizontal. Such glide angle is computed as beginning at
a point on the extended center line of the runway two hundred (200) feet beyond
and at the same elevation as the end of the runway pavement.
      (I)   Barriers to clear unobstructed vision at corners of intersections
shall be limited to a maximum height of two (2) feet above the established
elevation of the nearest street line. This limitation shall extend for a
distance of thirty (30) feet along both the front and side lot lines, measured
from the point of intersection of the said intersecting lot lines. This
limitation shall apply to the height of fences, walls, gateways, ornamental
structures, hedges, shrubbery, and other fixtures.
   (2)   Building Height and Massing; Nonresidential Zoning District or Use:
(Ord. #2016-04)
      (A)   The height of any office or commercial building or structure shall
be no more than thirty (30) feet measured from design grade.
      (B)   Massing: All office or commercial buildings or structures two
thousand five hundred (2,500) gross square feet or greater shall be composed of
at least three (3) building masses of differing heights or planes. Such
building masses shall vary in height vertically by a minimum of three (3) feet
from any adjacent mass or masses and façade offsets a minimum of three (3) feet
from any adjacent mass or masses.
      (C)   Mechanical equipment screen walls up to four (4) feet in height
will not be included in the height calculations only if they are located a
minimum of fifteen (15) feet away from the edge of the roof or building
parapet.
      (D)   This section shall not apply to amateur radio transmission towers
in excess of twenty-five (25) feet for which Conditional Use Permits have been
issued.
   (3)   Front Yard:
      (A)   For through lots, a front yard setbacks shall be provided along
both front lot lines.
      (B)   For corner lots, a front yard setback shall be provided along the
shortest street frontage in single-family residential zoning districts. Front
yard setbacks shall be provided along each street frontage in the multiple-
family and non-residential zoning districts.
   (4)   Side Yard: Where a commercial lot is abuts a rural or residential
zoning district, there shall be a side yard setback on the side of the lot
adjacent to such rural or residential zoning district having a width of not
less than ten (10) feet.
   (5)   Rear Yard: Where a commercial lot abuts a rural or residential zoning
district, whether or not separated by an alley, there shall be a rear yard
having a width of not less than twenty-five (25) feet.
   (6)   Buildings or structures may project into a required yard (building
setback) as follows:
      (A)   Bay windows and balconies may project a maximum distance of three
(3) feet into the required front or rear yard, provided they do not occupy more
than one-third (1/3) of the total length of the wall of the building on which
they are located.
      (B)   Terraces, uncovered patios, uncovered stairs, uncovered platforms,
and ornamental features which do not extend more than three (3) feet above
finished grade may project into any required yard (building setback), provided
such features shall be set back a minimum of three (3) feet from any lot line.
      (C)   Ordinary projections of window sills, cornices, eaves, and other
ornamental features may project a maximum distance of three (3) feet into any
required yard (building setback).
   (7)   The maximum disturbed area is subject to the following:
      (A)   All areas between the principal dwelling and/or guest house and any
fence or wall on the property shall be included in the disturbed area
calculation except that an allowed retaining wall for an approved driveway
shall not apply to this provision.
      (B)   When a driveway longer than 150 feet is required to respond to
natural constraints or lot configuration, the Development Review Board may
allow a greater disturbed area as it deems appropriate.
   (8)   The maximum lot coverage is subject to the following:
      (A)   Lot coverage does not include the first four (4’) feet of any roof
overhang.
      (B)   Additional lot coverage, only in the Rural-190 zoning district, of
up to 3,600 square feet is allowed for an approved horse stable, and additional
lot coverage of up to 1,800 square feet is allowed for approved horse shade
structures.
Article VII.   PARKING REQUIREMENTS
Section 7.01   Parking Requirement Table
The table below shows the parking requirements (columns labeled Minimum Number
of Parking Spaces) for the various land uses listed in the left hand column. If
there is a number in parentheses ( ) in the Minimum Number of Parking Spaces
column, there are additional conditions, provisions, and/or clarifications that
apply to that parking requirement. These conditions, provisions, and/or
clarifications will be found in the corresponding numbered paragraphs listed in
Section
7.02 of this Article. A definitions legend is located immediately below the
Table.
Table 7.1: Parking Standards.
USE MINIMUM NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
USE                                   MINIMUM NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
Single Family Home                    2 PS/DU(1)
Multiple-Family Dwelling              2 PS/DU(2) (4)
Church (Places of Worship)            1 PS/3 Seats(3) (4)
School and Educational Institutions   1 PS/3 Employees + 1 PS/5 Students(4)
Theater and Auditorium                1 PS/3 Seats(4)
Funeral Home, Community Building,     1 PS/300 GROSS SQ. FT.(4)
Other public assembly
Hotel, Motel, Guest Ranch, Resort
Hotel (see parking requirement for    1 PS/Guest Room(4)
restaurants & offices)
                                      1 PS/1 bed AND
Boarding House, Group Home            1 PS/Employee (including contract
                                      Employee)
Assisted Care Facility, Supervisory   .5 PS/1 bed
Care Facility
Office Building                       1 PS/250 GROSS SQ. FT.(4)
Restaurant, Night Club, and Bar       1 PS/100 GROSS SQ. FT.(4) (5)
Retail and other Commercial Buildings 1 PS/250 GROSS SQ. FT.(4)
Bowling Alley and similar             1 PS/300 GROSS SQ. FT.(4)
recreational uses
Private Club, Organization, Library   1 PS/500 GROSS SQ. FT.(4)
and Museum
LEGEND:   PS = Parking Space
      DU = Dwelling Unit
      GP = Guest Parking
      SQ.FT. = Square feet of gross floor area
      STUDENT = Students predicted upon the design capacity of the physical
plant
 
Section 7.02   Additional Requirements and Clarifications
   (1)   Single Family Home
      (A)   A minimum of two covered and enclosed parking spaces in a private
garage (with doors) shall be provided for each principal building.
      (B)   No open carports will be allowed in single family rural or
residential zoning districts.
   (2)   One of the required parking spaces must be covered. In addition, one
(1) additional parking space designated "Guest Parking" shall be provided for
every four (4) units or fraction thereof located in the same project.
   (3)   Parking spaces are calculated based on the seating in the main
auditorium exclusive of the seating capacity of Sunday School and other special
rooms.
   (4)   All covered or partially covered parking spaces must be approved by
the Development Review Board.
   (5)   Square footage shall include gross square footage of the building
including any area designated for outdoor dining that has been approved by the
Development Review Board, except the gross square footage of public restrooms
and kitchens may be subtracted from parking calculations.
Section 7.03   General Requirements
   (1)   No addition or enlargement of an existing building or use shall be
permitted unless the parking requirements of this Ordinance are met for the
entire building or use.
Section 7.04   Location of Required Parking Spaces
   (1)   The required parking spaces shall be located as follows:
      (A)   On the same lot as the use they are intended to serve, or
      (B)   Within four hundred (400) feet of the use they are intended to
serve, if legally located on property under permanent ownership, easement, or
lease by the owner or tenant.
Section 7.05   Joint Use Parking
   (1)   Joint use of parking spaces for two (2) or more buildings or uses is
allowed if the total is not less than the spaces required for all of the
individual buildings or uses.
Section 7.06   Design Standards for Required Parking
   (1)   For perpendicular parking, each space shall be at least nine (9) feet
wide and twenty (20) feet deep with a minimum aisle width of twenty-two (22)
feet.
   (2)   For other than perpendicular parking, the design shall be approved by
the Zoning Administrator.
   (3)   Parking, maneuvering, ingress and egress areas at developments other
than residential buildings with four or fewer units shall be maintained with
one or more of the following dustproof paving methods: (Ord. #2015-02)
      (A)   Asphaltic concrete.
      (B)   Cement concrete.
      (C)   Stabilized decomposed granite.
      (D)   Paving blocks.
      (E)   Other paved surface as approved by the Development Review Board.
   (4)   Parking, maneuvering, ingress and egress areas 3,000 square feet or
more in size at residential buildings with four or fewer units shall be
maintained with one or more of the following dustproof paving methods: (Ord.
#2015-02)
      (A)   Asphaltic concrete.
      (B)   Cement concrete.
      (C)   Stabilized decomposed granite.
      (D)   Paving blocks.
      (E)   Other paved surface as approved by the Development Review Board.
   (5)   Driveways shall be designed so that access to a street is by forward
motion.
   (6)   For Commercial, Garden Office, and Multi-Family uses, except when a
wall is required, a minimum six (6) inch high curb or bumper guard shall be
utilized or employed so that no part of the vehicle shall extend over or beyond
any property line.
   (7)   For Commercial, Garden Office, and Multi-Family uses, required parking
spaces shall be striped and the striping shall be maintained in good condition.
   (8)   All Commercial, Garden Office, or Multi-Family uses shall screen off-
street parking from view of any adjacent single family residential use by using
landscaping and three (3) foot high earth berming and/or a three (3) foot high
screen wall that blends into the building architecture as approved by the
Development Review Board.
   (9)   All Commercial, Garden Office, or Multi-Family uses shall contain a
minimum eight (8) foot wide landscape area between off-street parking areas and
abutting rights-of-ways. A minimum fifteen (15) foot wide landscape area shall
be provided between off-street parking and abutting residential uses.
Section 7.07   Mixed Uses
   (1)   The required parking spaces for mixed uses shall be the sum of the
required parking spaces for the various uses computed separately. Spaces for
one (1) use shall not be considered as providing required parking for any other
use.
Section 7.08   Loading and Unloading Regulations
   (1)   For all commercial buildings there shall be one (1) loading and
unloading space of not less than fifteen (15) feet in width, thirty (30) feet
in length, and fourteen (14) feet in height for each fifteen thousand (15,000)
square feet of floor area, or fraction thereof, which is devoted to the
building, or as otherwise approved by the Development Review Board.
   (2)   The required loading and unloading spaces shall be on the same lot as
the use they are intended to serve.
   (3)   In no case shall required loading and unloading spaces be part of the
area used to satisfy the parking requirement.
Section 7.09   Joint Use
   (1)   Joint use of loading spaces for two (2) or more buildings or uses is
allowed if the total is not less than the spaces required for all of the
individual buildings or uses.
Article VIII.   SIGNS PERMITTED
Section 8.01   Definitions
   (1)   BANNER, HORIZONTAL: A temporary horizontal sign composed of flexible
material.
   (2)   BANNER, PROJECTING VERTICAL: A temporary vertical sign composed of
flexible material, attached to two brackets that are affixed perpendicular to
an exterior wall or column of a building.
   (3)   BLADE SIGN: A permanent sign composed of rigid material that hangs
from a bracket or arcade. ATTACHED blade signs hang from a bracket permanently
affixed to an exterior wall or column of a building. FREESTANDING blade signs
hang from a bracket permanently affixed to a post that is separate from a
building. ARCADE blade signs hang from an awning truss that is part of and/or
attached to a building.
   (4)   DIRECTIONAL SIGN: A permanent sign that designates a functional aspect
of a site such as the entrance or exit from a parking area, a loading area, a
fire lane, or any similar feature approved by the Zoning Administrator.
   (5)   GROUND SIGN: A permanent sign displaying on the name of a multi-tenant
complex, residential subdivision, or multi-family complex, and/or the
respective address and that is placed along a street frontage as regulated in
Article VIII. A ground sign is attached to one or two sides of a freestanding
wall or other structure separate from a building.
   (6)   IDENTIFICATION SIGN: A permanent sign that displays the physical
address of a building. The sign may also identify the occupant of a residence
or the name of a building.
   (7)   MENU BOARD SIGN: A permanent sign displaying the menu of a restaurant.
   (8)   MONUMENT SIGN: A permanent sign that displays the name of a multi-
tenant complex, no more than five (5) tenants within the subject complex, and
the physical address of the complex. A monument sign is placed along a street
frontage as regulated in
Article VIII and is attached to one or two sides of a freestanding wall or
other structure separate from a building.
   (9)   OUTDOOR MERCHANDISE: Items associated with a business use that are
temporarily displayed outside the subject tenant space.
   (10)   PERMANENT SIGN: A sign displayed for an unrestricted period of time.
   (11)   POLITICAL SIGN: A temporary sign that supports or opposes a candidate
for public office or supports or opposes a ballot measure.
   (12)   REAL ESTATE SIGN: A temporary sign pertaining to the sale, lease, or
rental of property or a real estate “Open House” event or displaying
information pertaining to the general contractor or architect of a permitted
construction project.
   (13)   SIDEWALK SIGN: A temporary sign, placed on the property of a business
to which it is associated, including but not limited to an A-frame or sandwich
board sign.
   (14)   SIGN AREA: Unless otherwise specified in
Article VIII, the area contained within the outer limits of the text, emblem,
logo, or other display together with the material or color forming the
background for the text, emblem, logo, or other display but not including the
supporting structure or wall to which it is attached.
   (15)   TEMPORARY SIGN: Any sign displayed for a restricted period of time.
   (16)   TENANT DIRECTORY SIGN: A permanent sign listing various tenants in a
multi-tenant complex that is located internal to the associated property.
   (17)   WALL SIGN: A permanent sign with only one sign surface that is
attached parallel to an outside wall of a building. A wall sign may be painted
on the wall surface or be of separate construction extending no more than ten
(10) inches from the wall surface.
Section 8.02   Signs Permitted in each Zoning District
The following table (
Table 8.1) shows which types of signs are allowed in each zoning district. An
“X” means that type of sign is allowed. A blank means that type of sign is not
allowed. A number in parentheses ( ) indicates additional conditions,
provisions, and/or clarifications that will be found in the correspondingly
numbered paragraphs in Section
8.03 of this Article.
Table 8.1: Permitted signs per Zoning District.
SIGNS Rural- Rural- Rural- R1-35 R1-18 R1-10 R-3 L GO C
      190    70     43
SIGNS            Rural- Rural- Rural- R1-35 R1-18 R1-10 R-3   L     GO    C
                 190    70     43
PERMANENT SIGNS
BLADE                                                         X(1)  X(1)  X(1)
DIRECTIONA L                                            X(2)  X(2)  X(2)  (2)
GROUND           X(3)   X(3)   X(3)   X(3)  X(3)  X(3)  X(3)  X(3)  X(3)  X(3)
IDENTIFICAT I-ON X(4)   X(4)   X(4)   X(4)  X(4)  X(4)  X(4)  X(4)  X(4)  X(4)
MENU BOARD                                                    X(5)  X(5)  X(5)
MONUMENT                                                            X(6)  X(6)
TENANT DIRECTORY                                                    X(7)  X(7)
WALL                                                          X(8)  X(8)  X(8)
TEMPORARY SIGNS
BANNER,                                                             X(9)  X(9)
HORIZONTAL
BANNER,
PROJECTING                                                    X(10) X(10) X(10)
VERTICAL
OUTDOOR                                                       X(11) X(11) X(11)
MERCHANDIS E
REAL ESTATE      X(12)  X(12)  X(12)  X(12) X(12) X(12) X(12) X(12) X(12) X(12)
SIDEWALK                                                            X(13) X(13)
NOTE: POLITICAL SIGNS – see Section
8.06 Signs Exempt from Regulation
 
Section 8.03   Additional Requirements and Clarifications
   (1)   BLADE SIGNS shall require a building permit, comply with all
provisions of
Article VIII, and meet the following standards:
      (A)   One (1) blade sign, whether attached or freestanding, shall be
allowed per tenant space.
      (B)   Blade signs shall not be placed so as to obstruct any windows or
doorways.
      (C)   Blade signs shall be constructed of a rigid material, including but
not limited to high-density urethane, and of sufficient density to resist gusts
of wind.
      (D)   Blade signs shall be located no closer than five (5) feet from any
other temporary or permanent sign.
      (E)   Blade signs may be illuminated by external light directed onto the
sign, provided the light source is shielded and does not shine beyond the
limits of the sign area it is intended to illuminate.
      (F)   The following requirements apply to ATTACHED blade signs:
         1)   Attached blade signs shall be fastened to a permanent bracket
affixed perpendicular to a building support column or an exterior wall of the
building.
         2)   For any building, the top of the attached blade sign shall be no
higher than one (1) foot below the top of the building façade to which it is
affixed.
         3)   For buildings of more than one story, the top of each attached
blade sign shall be located no higher than the floor plate of the story
directly above the associated tenant space.
         4)   The maximum allowed size shall be an area of twelve (12) square
feet, no more than four (4) feet high, measured from the bottom to the top of
the sign and/or bracket, and three (3) feet wide, measured from the wall
surface to the outermost edge of the sign and/or bracket.
         5)   So as not to obstruct pedestrian or vehicular circulation,
attached blade signs shall have a minimum clearance of eight (8) feet from the
bottom of the sign or bracket to finished grade directly below.
         6)   Attached blade signs shall be located only on the exterior wall
of the associated business, unless otherwise approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
      (G)   The following requirements apply to FREESTANDING blade signs:
         1)   Freestanding blade signs shall be attached to a permanent bracket
affixed to a post that is located:
            a)   On the subject property,
            b)   No further than fifteen (15) from the subject building
entrance,
            c)   Within an established landscaped area, and
            d)   So as not to obstruct any sidewalk or vehicular passageway.
         2)   The maximum height from finished grade directly below the sign to
the top of the sign and/or the post supporting the sign shall not exceed a
height of five (5) feet.
         3)   The maximum allowed size of the sign shall be an area of twelve
(12) square feet, no more than four (4) feet high, measured from the bottom to
the top of the sign and/or bracket and three (3) feet wide, measured from the
wall surface to the outermost edge of the sign and/or bracket.
      (H)   The following requirements apply to ARCADE blade signs:
         1)   Arcade blade signs shall be hung either parallel or perpendicular
to the building from an awning truss that is part of and/or attached to a
building.
         2)   So as not to obstruct pedestrian or vehicular circulation under,
around or through the arcade, arcade blade signs shall have a minimum clearance
of eight (8) feet from the bottom of the sign to finished grade directly below.
         3)   The sign shall not be illuminated.
         4)   The maximum allowed size shall be an area of twelve (12) square
feet, no more than three (3) feet high and four (4) feet wide, measured from
the outermost edge of the sign and/or bracket.
   (2)   DIRECTIONAL SIGNS shall be exempt from building permit, comply with
all provisions of Article VIII, and meet the following standards:
      (A)   The maximum number of directional signs allowed shall be limited to
the number required to safely inform the public as approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
      (B)   The maximum allowed size of a directional sign shall be two (2)
square feet in sign area.
      (C)   The directional sign may be either:
         1)   Freestanding, in which case the top of the sign shall not be more
than five (5) feet above finished grade.
         2)   Placed flat against the façade of a building, in which case the
top of the sign shall not be more than six (6) feet above adjacent finished
grade directly below the sign.
      (D)   The directional sign may be illuminated by external light directed
onto the sign, provided the light source is shielded and does not shine beyond
the sign area it is intended to illuminate.
      (E)   If freestanding, the directional sign shall be set back a minimum
of one (1) foot from any property line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0003cd82274f329442d59f15d9f1a278f471274/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1457.png]
 
Figure 8.1: Example of directional sign.
   (3)   GROUND SIGNS, whether new or modified, shall require a building
permit, comply with all provisions of Article VIII, and meet the following
standards:
      (A)   A ground sign is only permitted on the property of the associated
multi-tenant complex, residential subdivision, or multi-family complex.
      (B)   A ground sign may include the name of a multi-tenant complex,
residential subdivision or multi-family complex but shall not display the name
and/or address of individuals within the respective uses. The physical address
of a multi-tenant complex or multi-family complex may be placed on the sign.
(See
Figure 8.2, below.)
      (C)   All ground signs shall be located within a landscaped area no
smaller than 120 square feet.
      (D)   No ground sign shall be allowed on the property of a multi-tenant
complex that is displaying a monument sign. Before any building permit is
issued for a ground sign, any existing monument sign shall be removed.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0003cd82274f329442d59f15d9f1a278f471274/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1459.png]
 
Figure 8.2: Example of ground sign.
      (E)   The maximum allowed number of ground signs shall be:
         1)   For a multi-tenant complex, one (1) ground sign for each abutting
arterial or collector street. (See
Figure 8.3 for examples.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0003cd82274f329442d59f15d9f1a278f471274/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1461.png]
 
Figure 8.3: Location of ground signs for a multi-tenant complex.
         2)   No ground sign shall be allowed for a multi-tenant complex that
has a wall sign for the overall complex.
         3)   For a residential subdivision where entrances are located on an
arterial or collector roadway as defined in the General Plan, two (2) ground
signs shall be allowed. If two signs are placed at one entrance, no ground sign
shall be allowed at another entrance. (See
Figure 8.4 for examples.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0003cd82274f329442d59f15d9f1a278f471274/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1463.png]
 
Figure 8.4: Location of ground signs for residential subdivisions.
      (F)   All ground signs shall be located:
         1)   Within fifty (50) feet of the driveway accessing the use or
complex it serves.
         2)   Within ten (10) feet of the right-of-way line of the arterial or
collector roadway on which it is located.
         3)   No closer than thirty (30) feet from any onsite ground sign and/
or tenant directory sign and fifteen (15) feet from any offsite ground sign
and/or tenant directory sign.
         4)   So as not to obstruct vehicular circulation, vehicular sight
lines, and/or pedestrian circulation.
         5)   The ground sign must conform to all other standards for ground
signs as stated in Article VIII.
      (G)   The maximum allowed area for a ground sign structure shall not
exceed thirty-five (35) square feet, with a maximum height of five (5) feet
from finished grade directly below the sign.
      (H)   The sign area (text, logo, and symbols) for a ground sign shall not
exceed thirty-five (35) percent of the overall dimensions of the sign
structure.
      (I)   A ground sign may be illuminated by one of the following methods:
         1)   External light directed onto the sign, provided the light source
is shielded and does not shine beyond the sign area it is intended to
illuminate.
         2)   Reverse pan channel text with halo lighting consisting of
concealed lighting elements.
   (4)   IDENTIFICATION SIGNS shall be exempt from building permit, comply with
all provisions of Article VIII, and meet the following standards:
      (A)   For all residential uses:
         1)   A maximum of two (2) identification signs are allowed for each
lot, subject to the following:
            a)   One (1) identification sign displaying the address of the
property shall be located at the driveway access, which may be within the
required yard (setback) area.
            b)   An identification sign displaying the name of the residence
shall not be located in the required yard (setback).
            c)   Properties fronting more than one (1) street or having two (2)
or more driveways may display up to two (2) identification signs within the
setback if the content is limited to the address.
         2)   The maximum allowed size of the identification sign structure
shall be four (4) square feet. (Ord. #2007-05)
         3)   The identification sign may be freestanding but the height shall
not exceed three (3) feet above finished grade directly below the sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0003cd82274f329442d59f15d9f1a278f471274/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1465.png]
 
Figure 8.5: Example of single-family residential identification sign.
         4)   The identification sign shall not be located in, or project into,
any street or alley.
         5)   The identification sign may be illuminated by external lighting
provided the light source is shielded and does not shine beyond the sign it is
intended to illuminate.
      (B)   For non-residential uses only:
         1)   One (1) identification sign is allowed for each building.
         2)   Two (2) identification signs are allowed for a building that
fronts on more than one street.
         3)   The maximum allowed size of the letters and/or numbers shall be
twelve (12) inch font.
         4)   An identification sign for a multi-tenant complex shall be
subject to the following:
            a)   For the building, the maximum allowed size of the letters and/
or numbers shall be twelve (12) inch font.
            b)   For each tenant, the maximum allowed size of the letters and/
or numbers shall be six (6) inch font.
         5)   An identification sign shall be placed on the exterior wall of
the building. It shall not project more than three (3) inches from the wall
and/or above the building façade.
         6)   An identification sign may be illuminated by one of the following
methods:
            a)   External light directed onto the sign, provided the light
source is shielded and does not shine beyond the sign area it is intended to
illuminate.
            b)   Reverse pan channel text with halo lighting consisting of
concealed lighting elements.
   (5)   MENU BOARD SIGNS shall be exempt from building permit, comply with all
provisions of Article VIII, and meet the following standards:
      (A)   One (1) menu board shall be allowed per restaurant, whether it is
an attached menu board or a sidewalk menu board.
      (B)   Menu board signs shall not be placed so as to obstruct any windows,
doorways or other permanent signs.
      (C)   Menu board signs shall be made of rigid material of sufficient
density so as to resist gusts of wind, including but not limited to high
density urethane.
      (D)   The following requirements apply to ATTACHED menu boards.
         1)   A building mounted menu board sign shall be permanently affixed
to the exterior wall or arcade column of a restaurant.
         2)   The maximum allowed size of the attached menu board sign shall be
an area of ten (10) square feet, no more than four (4) feet high, and two and a
half (2.5) feet wide.
         3)   The attached menu board sign shall not project more than three
(3) inches from the exterior wall.
         4)   Attached menu boards shall be located a minimum of five (5) feet
from any other permanent sign.
         5)   Attached menu board signs may be illuminated by external light
directed onto the sign, provided the light source is shielded and does not
shine beyond the sign area it is intended to illuminate.
      (E)   The following requirements apply to a freestanding SIDEWALK menu
board.
         1)   Sidewalk menu board signs may be an A-frame type sign and shall
be placed on the property of the business/complex where the restaurant is
located.
         2)   Sidewalk menu board signs shall not obstruct pedestrian or
vehicular passages.
         3)   The maximum allowed size of the sidewalk menu board sign shall be
an area of ten (10) square feet, no more than four (4) feet high and two and
one-half (2.5) feet wide.
   (6)   MONUMENT SIGNS, whether new or modified, shall require a building
permit, comply with all provisions of Article VIII, and meet the following
standards:
      (A)   A monument sign is only permitted on the property of a multi-tenant
complex. It shall display the name of the multi-tenant complex and no more than
five (5) of tenants within the subject complex. The physical address of the
complex may also be displayed. (See
Figure 8.5, below.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0003cd82274f329442d59f15d9f1a278f471274/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1467.png]
 
Figure 8.6: Example of a monument sign.
      (B)   All monument signs shall be located within a landscaped area no
smaller than 120 square feet.
      (C)   No monument sign is allowed on the property of a multi-tenant
complex displaying a ground sign and/or existing monument sign. Prior to a
building permit being issued for a monument sign, any existing ground sign and/
or monument sign shall be permanently removed.
      (D)   The maximum allowed number of monument signs shall be:
         1)   One (1) monument sign for each abutting arterial, collector, or
local street that is internal to the Town Center.
         2)   No monument sign is allowed on a minor collector street. (See
Figure 8.6 for examples.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0003cd82274f329442d59f15d9f1a278f471274/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1469.png]
 
Figure 8.7: Location of monument signs for a multi-tenant complex.
      (E)   Unless otherwise approved by the Zoning Administrator, all monument
signs shall be located:
         1)   Within fifty (50) feet of the driveway accessing the complex it
serves.
         2)   Within twenty (20) feet of the right-of-way boundary line of the
arterial or collector roadway on which it is located.
         3)   No closer than seventy-five (75) feet from any other onsite
monument sign and/or thirty (30) feet from any other offsite monument sign.
         4)   So as not to obstruct vehicular circulation, vehicular sight
lines, and/or pedestrian circulation.
         5)   In conformance with all other standards for monument signs as
stated in
Article VIII.
      (F)   The size of a monument sign structure shall be a maximum area of
fifty-six (56) square feet, a maximum height of seven (7) feet from finished
grade directly below the sign, and a maximum width of eight (8) feet.
      (G)   The total sign area (text, logo, and symbols) shall be a maximum of
forty-six (46) square feet.
      (H)   To encourage artistic design that contributes to the unique quality
and characteristics of Carefree, the Zoning Administrator may approve a maximum
three- (3) foot projection along the top and/or two (2) sides of the monument
sign structure that does not exceed 25% of the respective length of the top or
sides of the monument sign.
      (I)   The maximum height of the letters or images on a monument sign
shall be limited to the following:
         1)   Those identifying the name and/or logo of a multi-tenant complex
shall be no more than twenty-four (24) inches in height.
         2)   Those identifying the name and/or logo for each tenant and/or the
physical address of the complex shall be no more than twelve (12) inches in
height.
      (J)   Two-sided monument signs shall display identical signage on both
sides of the sign structure.
      (K)   A monument sign may be illuminated by one of the following methods:
         1)   Routed opaque sign panel with pushed through text and/or symbols,
all consisting of completely opaque faces and transparent sides with halo
lighting and concealed lighting elements.
         2)   Reverse pan channel text with halo lighting consisting of
concealed lighting elements.
   (7)   TENANT DIRECTORY SIGNS shall require a building permit, comply with
all provisions of
Article VIII, and meet the following standards:
      (A)   Tenant directory signs are only allowed on the subject property of
a multi-tenant complex, oriented toward internal traffic within the property/
development, and are subject to the following:
         1)   If the subject property is less than two (2) acres in size:
            a)   Only one (1) tenant directory sign is allowed.
            b)   It shall be located no further than fifteen (15) feet from the
building and adjacent to an established pedestrian walkway.
         2)   If the subject property is greater than or equal to two (2) acres
in size:
            a)   A maximum of two (2) tenant directory signs are allowed, one
(1) for each vehicular entry from a public street.
            b)   Each sign shall be located a minimum of thirty (30) feet from
the public right-of-way.
      (B)   Tenant directory signs shall be located:
         1)   No closer than thirty (30) feet from any onsite ground sign,
monument sign, or any other tenant directory sign,
         2)   No closer than fifteen (15) feet from any offsite ground sign,
monument sign, or any other tenant directory sign, and
         3)   No closer than five (5) feet from any other temporary or
permanent sign.
      (C)   The maximum allowed dimensions of a tenant directory sign shall be
an area of twelve (12) square feet, no more than four (4) feet high and three
(3) feet wide.
      (D)   The tenant directory sign shall be constructed of a rigid material,
including but not limited to high-density urethane. Other similar materials may
be approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      (E)   The maximum height of the letters or images on a tenant directory
sign shall be limited to the following:
         1)   Those identifying the name, logo and/or physical address for a
multi-tenant complex shall be no more than twelve (12) inches in height.
         2)   Those identifying the name and/or logo for each tenant shall be
no more than eight (8) inches in height.
      (F)   Tenant directory signs may be illuminated by external light
directed onto the sign, provided the light source is shielded and does not
shine beyond the sign area it is intended to illuminate.
      (G)   An ATTACHED tenant directory sign shall be placed on the exterior
wall of the building. It shall not project more than three (3) inches from the
wall and shall be located no higher than two (2) feet below the top of the
building façade.
      (H)   A FREESTANDING tenant directory sign shall meet the following
requirements:
         1)   Shall be permanently affixed to a post constructed of Cor-ten
steel. Other similar materials may be approved by the Zoning Administrator.
         2)   Shall not obstruct any sidewalk or vehicular passage.
         3)   The maximum height shall be seven (7) feet measured from the top
of the freestanding tenant directory sign and post supporting it to finished
grade directly below.
   (8)   WALL SIGNS, whether new or modified, shall require a building permit,
comply with all provisions of
Article VIII, and meet the following standards:
      (A)   Are limited to the name, logo, and address of an office,
commercial, hotel, or resort use.
      (B)   Each tenant within a building is allowed one (1) wall sign.
      (C)   If the building fronts on two (2) streets or can be viewed from an
arterial street, one (1) additional wall sign is allowed on a different façade.
      (D)   The maximum allowed size for a wall sign shall be as follows:
         1)   For buildings less than 5,000 gross square feet in area, the sign
area shall not exceed one (1) square foot for every three (3) linear feet of
frontage associated with the subject tenant.
         2)   For buildings 5,000 gross square feet or greater in area, the
sign area shall not exceed one (1) square foot for every one (1) linear foot of
frontage associated with the subject tenant.
      (E)   Multi-tenant complexes that do not have a ground sign or a monument
sign are allowed one (1) wall sign subject to the following:
         1)   The wall sign shall only identify the multi-tenant complex. It
may include the name or address, but shall not display the name and/or address
of individual tenants.
         2)   The maximum allowed size of the wall sign shall be an area of
twenty-four (24) square feet, no more than four (4) feet high and six (6) feet
wide.
         3)   The maximum allowed height of the individual letters or symbols
on the wall sign shall be twenty-four (24) inches.
      (F)   The top of the wall sign shall be no higher than two (2) feet below
the top of the building façade to which it is affixed.
      (G)   For buildings of more than one story, the top of each wall sign
shall not be located higher than the floor plate of the story directly above
the associated tenant space.
      (H)   The wall sign shall not project more than ten (10) inches from the
wall.
      (I)   The wall sign shall be located no closer than five (5) feet from
any other temporary or permanent sign unless otherwise approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
      (J)   A wall sign may be illuminated by one of the following methods:
         1)   External light directed onto the sign, provided the light source
is shielded and does not shine beyond the sign area it is intended to
illuminate.
         2)   Reverse pan channel text with halo lighting consisting of
concealed lighting elements.
   (9)   BANNER SIGNS, HORIZONTAL shall require a temporary sign permit, comply
with all provisions of
Article VIII, and meet the following standards:
      (A)   No more than one (1) horizontal banner sign is allowed for each
tenant occupying a minimum leasable area of five thousand (5,000) square feet.
      (B)   Businesses displaying a horizontal banner shall not also display a
projecting vertical banner or sidewalk sign.
      (C)   The horizontal banner sign shall be subject to the following
standards:
         1)   Shall be constructed of vinyl, cloth or similar material with
folded and sewn edges.
         2)   The maximum size of the horizontal banner shall be an area of
thirty-six (36) square feet, no more than three (3) feet high, and twelve (12)
feet wide.
         3)   If attached to a wall, shall be parallel with the wall to which
it is affixed.
         4)   Shall not be located on the rooftop.
         5)   Shall not be located higher than four (4) feet below the top of
the building façade.
         6)   If hanging from an arcade, shall have a minimum clearance of
eight (8) feet and shall not obstruct pedestrian circulation.
         7)   Banners shall not be illuminated.
         8)   A maximum of four (4) temporary sign permits may be issued per
calendar year for horizontal banners.
      (D)   A non-profit 501(c)3 organization hosting a special event held on
PRIVATE property shall be subject to the following standards for horizontal
banners:
         1)   Horizontal banners related to a special event do not require a
temporary sign permit but are regulated in association with the Special Event
Permit.
         2)   Horizontal banners related to a special event may be displayed on
either private property or public right-of-ways as approved by the Zoning
Administrator in association with the Special Event Permit.
         3)   The maximum allowed size of a horizontal banner shall be an area
of twelve (12) square feet, no more than three (3) feet high and four (4) feet
wide.
         4)   The top of a horizontal banner sign staked to the ground shall
not exceed a height of five (5) feet above the finished grade directly below
the sign and shall not obstruct vehicular sight lines if placed near or
adjacent to street right-of-ways.
   (10)   BANNER SIGNS, PROJECTING VERTICAL shall require a temporary sign
permit, comply with all provisions of
Article VIII, and meet the following standards:
      (A)   One (1) projecting vertical banner sign shall be allowed for each
tenant space.
      (B)   A maximum of two (2) projecting vertical banners shall be allowed
for each tenant space with more than thirty-five (35) continuous feet of
building exterior.
      (C)   Businesses displaying a projecting vertical banner shall not also
display a horizontal banner or sidewalk sign.
      (D)   Projecting vertical banners shall be constructed of vinyl, cloth,
or similar material with folded and sewn edges.
      (E)   Projecting vertical banners shall be:
         1)   Located only on the exterior wall of the associated business,
unless otherwise approved by the Zoning Administrator.
         2)   Fastened to two (2) permanent brackets affixed perpendicular to a
building support column or an exterior wall of the building.
         3)   For all buildings, the top of the projecting vertical banner
shall be no higher than one (1) foot below the top of the building façade to
which it is affixed.
         4)   For buildings of more than one story, the top of each projecting
vertical banner shall not be located higher than the floor plate of the story
directly above the associated tenant space.
         5)   So as not to obstruct pedestrian or vehicular circulation,
projecting vertical banners shall have a minimum clearance of seven (7) feet
from the bottom of the sign or brackets to finished grade directly below.
      (F)   Projecting vertical banners and/or brackets shall be removed when
not permitted and/or not in use. The maximum projection of any remaining
fixture shall not exceed three (3) inches.
      (G)   Projecting vertical banners shall be located no closer than eight
(8) feet from other projecting vertical banners and five (5) feet from any
other temporary or permanent sign.
      (H)   No projecting vertical banner shall be illuminated.
      (I)   The maximum allowed size of the projecting vertical banner shall be
an area of twelve (12) square feet, four (4) feet high, measured from the
bottom to the top of the sign and/or bracket, and three (3) feet wide, measured
from the wall surface to the outermost edge of the sign and/or bracket.
      (J)   A maximum of four (4) temporary sign permits may be issued per
calendar year for projecting vertical banners.
   (11)   OUTDOOR MERCHANDISE shall be exempt from building permit, comply with
all provisions of the Zoning Ordinance, and meet the following standards:
      (A)   Outdoor merchandise shall relate to the primary use of the business
and shall not be considered signage as otherwise allowed in
Article VIII.
      (B)   Outdoor merchandise shall be located:
         1)   No further than fifteen (15) feet from the building and adjacent
to an established pedestrian walkway.
         2)   Outdoor merchandise shall not extend more than fifty (50) percent
along the linear length of the building façade.
         3)   So as to not obstruct pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
   (12)   REAL ESTATE SIGNS shall be exempt from building permit, comply with
all provisions of
Article VIII, and meet the following standards:
      (A)   The maximum allowed size of the real estate sign shall be three (3)
square feet in area, for example, one and one half (1.5) feet by two (2) feet
as measured from outside of frame to outside of frame.
      (B)   A real estate sign shall be freestanding or, for a condominium,
townhouse, or commercial unit, the sign may be placed in a window.
      (C)   Any freestanding real estate sign shall be mounted on single or
double stakes or posts which shall be the only method of anchoring the sign to
the ground, except for “Open House” signs, which shall be a sandwich or tent
style.
      (D)   The maximum height of a freestanding real estate sign shall not
exceed five (5) feet above finished grade directly below the sign, except for
“Open House” signs, which shall not exceed a height of three (3) feet.
      (E)   Real estate signs shall have no riders or attachments, except for
the following:
         1)   Real estate signs may have one (1) rider having maximum
dimensions of 6" X 24", only displaying the name and/or contact information for
the owner of the subject property, or the respective selling broker, architect,
or contractor.
         2)   “For Sale” or “For Lease” signs may also have one (1) enclosed
information box having maximum dimensions of 2" X 10" X 12"; or one (1)
enclosed tube having maximum dimensions of 3" in diameter by 12" in length.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0003cd82274f329442d59f15d9f1a278f471274/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1471.png]
 
Figure 8.8: Example of single-family residential real estate sign.
      (F)   Real estate signs shall not be illuminated.
      (G)   “For Sale” or “For Lease” signs shall be removed within five (5)
days after the sale or lease of the property or building.
      (H)   A contractor’s or architect’s sign may only be displayed after a
building permit has been issued and only during construction. It may include
the name and telephone number of the general contractor and/or the architect,
but no other information.
      (I)   For residential uses only:
         1)   One (1) “For Sale” sign, one (1) “Open House” sign, and one (1)
contractor’s and/or architect’s sign are allowed onsite for each subject lot,
house, or unit.
         2)   The maximum height of freestanding real estate signs, other than
“Open House” signs, shall not exceed five (5) feet above finished grade
directly below the sign.
         3)   In gated communities or non-gated condominium or townhouse
complexes, only one (1) additional “For Sale” or “For Lease” sign may be
displayed on common property at the entrance to the community or complex,
subject to the following:
            a)   The homeowners’ association shall approve the additional sign.
            b)   The additional sign shall be either generic or branded by the
homeowners’ association, and no real estate company name shall be shown.
            c)   When the subdivision has only one real estate company
representing property within the subdivision, then, only during that time, such
“For Sale” sign may contain the name of the subdivision or complex, the
property address, and the name and/or logotype and phone number of the listing
broker or agent.
            d)   The sign shall not exceed a height of five (5) feet.
         4)   For a property in a NEW single-family subdivision or for a unit
in NEW condominium or townhouse complex:
            a)   A “For Sale” sign may contain only the name of the subdivision
or complex, the property address, and the name and/or logotype and phone number
of the listing broker.
            b)   A “Model Home” or “Sales Office” sign is allowed, which may
contain only the words “Model Home” or “Sales Office,” the address of the
property, and a directional arrow.
            c)   To advertise the entire subdivision or complex, one (1) “For
Sale” sign, one (1) “Model Home” sign or “Sales Office” sign, and one (1)
contractor’s or architect’s sign are allowed along each street frontage of the
subdivision or complex. Each sign shall be freestanding.
            d)   New subdivisions or complexes with more than two hundred (200)
feet of frontage along an arterial or collector road are allowed a maximum of
two (2) onsite “For Sale” or “For Lease” signs per street frontage.
      (J)   For nonresidential uses only:
         1)   One (1) “For Sale” or “For Lease” sign is allowed on the exterior
wall or window of each unit that is for sale or for lease.
         2)   A maximum of one (1) “For Sale” or “For Lease” sign and one (1)
contractor’s or architect’s sign are allowed onsite for each street frontage
for nonresidential properties with more than one tenant.
         3)   Nonresidential properties with more than two hundred (200) feet
of frontage along an arterial road are allowed a maximum of two (2) onsite “For
Sale” or “For Lease” signs per street frontage.
         4)   The maximum height of a freestanding real estate sign shall not
exceed five (5) feet above finished grade directly below the sign.
         5)   If the real estate sign is attached to a building, the top of the
sign shall not project above the building façade.
      (K)   “Open House” signs are further regulated as follows:
         1)   An “Open House” sign is allowed only for any residential use and
nonresidential condominiums.
         2)   An “Open House” sign shall be a sandwich or tent style with a
maximum height of three (3) feet.
         3)   An “Open House” sign shall contain the words “Open House” and/or
an arrow. It may also include:
            a)   The address of the property, and/or
            b)   The name and/or logotype of the listing broker, or agent and/
or their contact information, or
            c)   If the home is “For Sale by Owner” (“FSBO”), the name and/or
contact information of the property owner or their representative.
         4)   An “Open House” sign may only be displayed during the actual
hours of the open house and while the property owner or selling broker/
representative is present at the open house.
         5)   “Open House” signs shall have no riders or attachments, except
one (1) rider having maximum dimensions of 6" X 24", only displaying the name
and/or contact information for the owner of the subject property, or the
respective selling broker.
         6)   One (1) onsite “Open House” sign is allowed on the subject
property. No permit is required for this sign.
         7)   In addition to the onsite “Open House” sign, up to eight (8)
additional offsite “Open House” signs located in the Town right-of-way may be
allowed per any one (1) open house, subject to the following:
            a)   Pursuant to Carefree Town Code Article 11-3, Section
11-3-3, an open house sign permit is required for offsite “Open House” signs.
            b)   An offsite “Open House” sign shall pertain only to a property
located in the Town of Carefree.
            c)   One (1) “Open House” sign is allowed at the intersection of
two (2) or more streets.
            d)   Two (2) signs are allowed at street intersections on Cave
Creek Road or Tom Darlington Drive, one on each side of the right-of-way.
            e)   Properties which are not located at the corner of an
intersection, but which have access fronting Cave Creek Road or Tom Darlington
Drive, may have one (1) sign in the right-of-way on the side opposite to their
property.
            f)   One (1) sign may be placed in the right-of-way where a curve
in the street is sharper than a right angle, but where there is no intersecting
street.
            g)   For gated communities, one (1) “Open House” sign may be placed
at the entrance in the common area or the right-of-way adjacent to the gated
entrance. Such sign shall be approved by the respective homeowners’
association.
            h)   Signs are not allowed in any medians that divide portions of
paved or unpaved roads
            i)   The “Open House” sign shall be placed a minimum of one (1)
foot behind the curb. If no curb is present, signs shall be located a minimum
of three (3) feet from the edge of the pavement.
            j)   No sign shall be placed so as to obstruct pedestrian, bicycle,
and/or vehicular traffic and visibility.
            k)   Sign placement and/or quantity of signs, other than as
described above, may be approved by the town zoning administrator.
   (13)   SIDEWALK SIGNS shall be exempt from a permit, comply with all
provisions of Article VIII, and meet the following standards (Ord. #2010-06;
#2010-11; #2011-08, #2012-04):
      (A)   A maximum of one (1) sidewalk sign is allowed for each business
located within Commercial (C) and/or Garden Office (GO) zoning and that is
licensed with the Town of Carefree.
      (B)   A business displaying a sidewalk sign shall place the business name
on the associated sign in a minimum size 12 font.
      (C)   The maximum allowed size shall be three and one-half (3.5) feet
high and two and one-half (2.5) feet wide.
      (D)   A sidewalk sign shall be located no further than thirty-five (35)
feet from the door of the primary customer entrance into the building of the
associated business.
      (E)   A sidewalk sign shall be placed on the subject property in which
the business is located and not within the public right-of-way. The Zoning
Administrator may approve a request to locate a sidewalk sign in a landscape
island located in the right-of-way and within thirty-five (35) feet from the
door of the primary customer entrance of the associated business.
      (F)   A sidewalk sign shall not obstruct any pedestrian walkway, traffic
circulation, and/or traffic line-of-sight, as determined by the Zoning
Administrator.
      (G)   Any sidewalk sign must be removed each day upon the close of
business.
      (H)   Sidewalk signs shall be constructed as follows:
         1)   Of a minimum one-half (½) inch thick high density exterior grade
compressed wood, including but not limited to Omega or Medium Density Overlay
board.
         2)   Of sufficient weight so as to resist wind gusts, storms, etc.
         3)   Sidewalk signs shall not be constructed of paper, poster board,
or cardboard.
      (I)   No sidewalk sign shall be illuminated.
Section 8.04   General Regulations
   (1)   Unless otherwise provided by this Article, all signs shall be located
on the subject property.
   (2)   A temporary sign permit shall be issued for one (1) calendar month.
For example, a permit issued on the first of the month will expire on the last
day of that month; a permit issued on the 15th of the month will also expire on
the last day of that month; etc.
   (3)   Signs for a private guard or security company and/or “no trespassing”
signs are allowed and do not require permits provided each sign does not exceed
one (1) square foot in area and two (2) feet in height from finished grade
directly below the sign. No more than two (2) signs per street frontage are
allowed.
   (4)   All signs associated with a business that has closed shall be removed
by the landlord or property owner within five (5) working days of the date of
closure.
   (5)   Except for wall signs, all signs may be back-to-back (double-sided).
Each side may not exceed the maximum dimension stated for each respective type
of sign.
   (6)   Unless otherwise provided by this article, sign height shall be
measured from the finished grade directly below the sign to the top of the
sign. Fill shall not be added for the purpose of elevating the sign.
Section 8.05   Prohibited Signs
The following signs are prohibited:
   (1)   Illuminated signs, except as specifically allowed by this Ordinance.
   (2)   With the exception of “open” signs placed in a commercial window,
signs that use movement, lighting, or animation to give the illusion of action
are prohibited. Such signs, without limitation, include the following:
      (A)   Revolving signs.
      (B)   Flashing signs with intermittent lighting and/or varying
intensities of light, including a moving light or lights.
      (C)   Signs illuminated by internal lighting or by lights that are
external but integral to the sign, such as bulbs or neon tubing that display a
business logo or spell out the sign message.
   (3)   Signs that give off any sound.
   (4)   Any sign located above the eaves or parapet or attached to the roof of
a building.
   (5)   Window signs, including pictures, symbols, or combinations thereof
designed to communicate information about an activity, business, commodity,
event, sale, or service, except those that are:
      (A)   For commercial uses only:
         1)   Placed inside a window or upon the window panes or glass and
visible from the exterior of the window, and
         2)   Which, in combination, encompass no more than ten (10) square
feet or twenty five percent (25%) of the subject window area, whichever is
smaller.
      (B)   Otherwise provided for in Article VIII.
   (6)   Search lights or beacons.
   (7)   Flags, pennants, tethered balloons, or similar devices used for
commercial advertisement.
   (8)   Signs attached to utility poles or other structures or located on the
ground within the right-of-way of public or private streets, except as
specifically allowed in this Ordinance or the Carefree Town Code.
   (9)   Signs not expressly allowed in this Article.
Section 8.06   Signs Exempt from Regulation
The following types of signs are exempt from regulation provided they meet all
other requirements of this Article:
   (1)   Non-commercial flags:
      (A)   With a maximum height of twenty four (24) feet as measured from the
top of the flagpole to finished grade directly below.
      (B)   That are less than an area of twenty-four (24) square feet in size
and no more than four (4) feet high and six (6) feet wide.
      (C)   That are only flown between sunrise and sunset.
   (2)   One temporary political sign per lot per candidate and/or issue
provided the size of each sign does not exceed three (3) square feet in area,
for example eighteen (18) inches by twenty-four (24) inches. The sign shall be
removed within fifteen (15) days of the results of the associated election.
   (3)   Political signs located in the Town of Carefree right-of-ways pursuant
to Carefree Town Code
Article 11-3 and Carefree Resolution 2012-01.
   (4)   A name plate of no more than one (1) square foot adjacent to an entry
door.
   (5)   Signs displayed by the Town of Carefree for government or other public
purposes.
Section 8.07   Nonconforming Signs
   (1)   This section provides for the regulation of legal nonconforming signs.
These regulations are designed to protect the rights of legally existing
nonconforming signs but not promote expansion or enlargement of the signs.
   (2)   A legal nonconforming sign under this Ordinance is any sign lawfully
erected under County zoning regulations at the effective date of incorporation,
annexation, or under previous zoning regulations in effect at the time of
adoption of this Ordinance or any amendment thereof, unless otherwise specified
in Article VIII.
   (3)   No expansion or physical alteration that exceeds twenty-five (25)
percent of the sign area or structure shall be made to any nonconforming sign
unless such expansion conforms to the regulations specified in this Article.
   (4)   Any nonconforming sign which has been damaged by fire, flood,
explosion, earthquake, war, riot, or act of God may be reconstructed and used
as before, if done within six (6) months of such calamity. The Town Council,
after review and recommendation by the Development Review Board, may determine
that further delay in reconstruction was caused by unforeseen circumstances
beyond the control of the owner and permit a reasonable extension of time for
reconstruction. Any applicable regulations may be waived by the Town Council
provided the restored sign is not more nonconforming than that which existed at
the time of the calamity.
   (5)   Any nonconforming sign which ceases to be used for a period exceeding
six (6) months shall be removed or converted to a conforming sign (except as
provided in the preceding paragraph). A nonconforming sign shall not be changed
to a different nonconforming use. This shall not prevent a change in ownership
of the subject nonconforming sign.
Section 8.08   Comprehensive Sign Plans (Ord. #2018-07)
   (1)   Purpose.
      (A)   The purpose of this Section is to provide a process to respond to
special signage needs of proposed or existing uses, as well as to promote
superior sign design, materials, and installation methods.
      (B)   A Comprehensive Sign Program (CSP) provides for flexibility to
develop innovative, creative and effective signage and to improve the
aesthetics of the Town.
   (2)   Applicability.
      (A)   All proposed or existing nonresidential multi-tenant complexes and/
or mixed use developments.
   (3)   Review criteria.
      (A)   Applications for a Comprehensive Sign Program shall be reviewed and
approved by the Planning Director. The Director may approve a CSP containing
elements which exceed the permitted height, area, and number of signs specified
in this Sign Ordinance if the CSP conforms to required findings as well as
incorporates special design features that encourage quality signage.
      (B)   The required findings are as follows:
         1)   The development site contains unique or unusual physical
conditions, such as topography, size, or relation to a public street that would
limit or restrict normal sign visibility; or
         2)   The proposed or existing development exhibits unique
characteristics of land use, architectural style, site location, physical
scale, historical interest, or other distinguishing features that represent a
clear variation from conventional development.
      (C)   Special design features include, but are not limited to:
         1)   Dimensional letters: Pan channel letters without raceways, non-
illuminated reverse pan channel or flat cut out aluminum letters, or internal/
indirect illuminated halo channel letters, on an unlit or otherwise
indistinguishable background on a freestanding sign or building wall.
         2)   Simplified letter and/or logo copy to encourage easily
recognizable business identification while simplifying the appearance of a
streetscape.
         3)   Sign structure materials that utilize native or natural materials
in the construction of sign structures resulting in improved and innovative
sign design and an improved image of a business or development.
         4)   Sign structure which blends with the development site that
incorporates a major element of a building façade or significant landscape
feature, resulting in the creation of a unique image for a development.
   (4)   Sign Permit Required
      (A)   A sign permit is required for the construction and placement of
individual signs contained in an approved Comprehensive Sign Program.
      (B)   All signs located in a multi-tenant complex or mixed use
development are required to comply with the CSP, if such plan has been approved
by the Town.
   (5)   CSP Submittal Requirements shall include the following:
      (A)   A CSP shall be prepared by a graphics design professional.
      (B)   A site plan to scale of the overall development, including all
parcels included within the multi-tenant complex;
      (C)   The location(s) and sizes of existing and proposed buildings,
parking lots, driveways, streets and landscaped areas of the development;
      (D)   The size, location, height, color, lighting source, and orientation
of all proposed signs for the development, with a computation of sign area for
each sign type;
      (E)   A complete set of standards, including but not limited to, letter
size, style, colors, type(s), placement, number of signs and sign material(s),
and illumination method (if applicable);
      (F)   A narrative description of the development to demonstrate that the
sign program meets the required findings and/or sign design standards;
      (G)   Any other information deemed necessary to meet the findings noted
above.
Article IX.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 9.01   Applying General Provisions
The regulations set forth in this Article supplement the Zoning regulations
appearing elsewhere in this Ordinance.
Section 9.02   Accessory Buildings and Uses
   (1)   Accessory buildings shall not be constructed upon a lot until after
the construction of the principal building has begun.
   (2)   Accessory buildings in Single-Family Residential zoning districts
shall not be rented or leased for any purpose.
   (3)   The cumulative square footage of the guest house shall not exceed one-
third (1/3) of the total square footage of the livable area of the principal
structure.
   (4)   No more than one (1) guest house is permitted per lot or parcel.
   (5)   An accessory building shall not be used or occupied until the
certificate of occupancy for the principal building has been issued by the
Building Official.
   (6)   Both the principal building and guest house shall be served by a
common single electric meter and water meter (if applicable).
   (7)   Principal buildings and accessory structures shall be served by a
single common driveway unless approved by the Zoning Administrator.
   (8)   Design of accessory buildings shall be compatible with the design of
the principal dwelling in materials, colors and architectural style.
Section 9.03   Number of Principal Buildings on a Lot
   (1)   In Single-Family Residential zoning districts only one (1) principal
building may be located on each parcel or lot.
   (2)   In Multiple-Family Residential or Commercial zoning districts more
than one (1) principal building may be located on a parcel or lot, provided a
site plan showing all improvements has been approved by the Development Review
Board.
Section 9.04   Additional Yard And Open Space
   (1)   Any required yard (building setback) around any building shall not be
used as the required yard (building setback) for any other building.
Section 9.05   Solar Collector
   (1)   No solar collector shall be permitted on a vacant lot.
   (2)   When any solar collector is located on the ground or on a ground
mounted structure, the solar collector:
      (A)   Shall not exceed six (6) feet in height above natural grade at the
location of the structure or solar collector,
      (B)   Shall be screened from view by walls, fences, mature landscaping,
or natural terrain, and
      (C)   Shall not be located in a front yard or in any required yard
(building setback).
   (3)   Roof mounted solar collectors must be at the same slope or parallel to
the sloped roof unless otherwise approved by the Development Review Board.
Solar collectors mounted to a flat roof shall be screened behind a parapet so
as not to be visible from any adjoining lot at the same or lower elevation than
the lot on which the solar collector is located.
Section 9.06   Storage of Refuse and Refuse Containers
   (1)   The site plan for the construction of all new principal buildings
shall include the location for the storage of refuse containers.
   (2)   All refuse containers shall be screened from view of all public
streets and neighboring properties except on the day of garbage collection.
Section 9.07   Screening Mechanical Equipment
   (1)   All ground mounted mechanical equipment shall be screened by walls,
mature landscaping, or natural terrain so as not to be visible from any
neighboring property at the same or lower elevation.
   (2)   All roof mounted mechanical equipment shall be screened so as not to
be visible from any neighboring property at the same or lower elevation.
   (3)   All screen walls shall be of solid and permanent construction and
shall appear to be an integral part of the building to which they are attached.
Section 9.08   Retaining Walls
   (1)   The height of a retaining wall shall be measured from the outside
finished grade (facing the property line) to the top of the wall. Open rail or
wrought iron fencing placed on top of a retaining wall is allowed up to a
height of three (3) feet in a required yard (building setback) and six (6) feet
in height in the buildable area on the lot or parcel. The additional height of
an open rail fence is not included in the height measurement of the retaining
wall. The height of an open rail fence is measured from inside finished grade
to the top of the rail. (Ord. #2007-05)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0003cd82274f329442d59f15d9f1a278f471274/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1473.png]
 
Figure 9.1: Measuring height of retaining walls.
   (2)   Retaining walls within the required yard (building setback) shall not
exceed four and one-half (4-1/2) feet in height from outside finished grade.
Any retaining wall, which outside (facing the property line) finished grade is
higher than the inside finished grade and is located within the required front
yard setback shall have an exterior finish of either split face block, natural
stone and/or stone veneer. Any exterior lights placed on the wall within the
required front yard setback shall consist of down lights. Light fixtures placed
on top of a retaining wall within the required front yard are prohibited. (Ord.
#2007-05)
   (3)   In the buildable area the maximum height of a retaining wall or a
combination of retaining walls shall not exceed seven (7) feet in height from
finished grade unless a greater height is approved by the Development Review
Board. Any combination of retaining walls requiring Board approval shall
contain split face block, natural stone and/or stone veneer applied along the
entire outside (towards the property line) frontage. (Ord. #2007-05)
   (4)   Retaining walls shall be terraced if the wall height exceeds five (5)
feet from finished grade. Additionally, the upper retaining wall shall not
exceed four (4) feet in height and there shall be a minimum of four (4) feet of
level ground between the walls. This area between the walls shall be landscaped
with drought tolerant plant materials to help mask the upper section of the
wall. (Ord. #2007-05)
Section 9.09   Fences and Free-Standing Walls
   (1)   The height of all fences and free-standing walls shall be measured
from outside finished grade to the top of the wall and:
      (A)   Fill shall not be added for the purpose of elevating the fence or
free-standing wall.
      (B)   Open railings on top of free-standing walls are included in the
height measurements of all freestanding walls.
   (2)   A masonry or solid wall, living fence, hedge, column or driveway gate,
or other structure with a maximum height of four and one half (4.5) feet shall
not extend more than halfway into any one required side and/or required rear
yard setback. If a masonry or solid wall acts as a swimming pool barrier and
encroaches within a required side yard and/or required rear yard setback, such
enclosure may be built up to five (5) feet in height measured from outside
finished grade. Masonry or solid walls, living fences, hedges, columns or
driveway gates, or other structures shall not be placed within the required
front yard building setback. (Ord. #2007-05)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0003cd82274f329442d59f15d9f1a278f471274/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1475.png]
 
Figure 9.2: Example of a masonry wall or solid wall encroachment into a
required yard (building setback).
      (A)   Natural features such as steep terrain, boulder outcroppings, or
washes shall be preserved in their natural condition. (Ord. #2007-05)
      (B)   All areas enclosed by the subject wall or other structures in the
nature of a wall shall be included within the disturbed area calculations.
(Ord. #2007-05)
      (C)   Walls establishing the perimeter of a corral used in the keeping of
horses or other equines shall be placed a minimum of one hundred (100) feet
from any lot line. (Ord. #2007-05)
      (D)   Any masonry wall, solid wall, or other structure in the nature of a
wall encroaching within any required side or required rear yard shall undulate
on a horizontal plane (curvilinear). (Ord. #2007-05)
      (E)   Any masonry wall, solid wall, or other structure in the nature of a
wall encroaching within any required side or required rear yard shall provide
breaks (openings designed for the 100-year storm event) for washes and
significant wildlife corridors. (Ord. #2007-05)
   (3)   A maximum four and one-half (4.5) foot high open fence may extend no
more than halfway into any required side yard and/or required rear yard but
shall not be placed within the required front yard. If the open fence acts as a
swimming pool barrier and encroaches within a required side and/or required
rear yard, such enclosure may be built up to five (5) feet in height measured
from outside finished grade. (Ord. #2007-05)
      (A)   Chain link, barb wire, razor wire, and wood plank fencing are
prohibited.
      (B)   Breaks within the fence shall be provided for washes and
significant wildlife corridors.
      (C)   Fences establishing the perimeter of a corral used in the keeping
of horses or other equines shall be placed a minimum of one hundred (100) feet
from any lot line.
   (4)   Fences or walls located in the buildable area shall not exceed a
height of six (6) feet from finished grade.
      (A)   Chain link, barb wire, razor wire, and wood plank fencing are
prohibited.
      (B)   Gates and entry features located in the buildable area in
association with courtyards shall not exceed a height from finished grade of
ten (10) feet.
      (C)   Breaks within the fence or wall shall be provided for washes and
significant wildlife corridors.
   (5)   Pool enclosures shall meet the following requirements:
      (A)   No pool enclosure (fence or solid masonry wall) shall be located
more than fifty (50) percent (halfway) into any side or rear required yard
(building setback). Pool enclosures are prohibited in any required front yard
(building setback).
      (B)   Pool areas shall be secured from outside access by a masonry wall,
ornamental iron fence, or combination thereof not less than five (5) feet in
height above finished grade measured on the side of the fence opposite the
pool.
      (C)   Access to the pool area, other than through the house, shall be
through a self-closing, self-latching gate not less than five (5) feet in
height as measured on the side of the fence opposite the pool.
      (D)   Gate mounting and latching hardware shall be positioned on the pool
side of the gate.
      (E)   Accessory equipment such as pumps, heaters, and filters shall be
enclosed by a solid wall at least four and one-half (4.5) feet in height to
screen sound and sight from neighboring lots.
   (6)   Private tennis court fences and walls are allowed only in the Rural-
190, Rural-70, R-3 and Lodging zoning districts and shall meet the following
requirements:
      (A)   Private tennis court fences are not permitted in any required yard
(building setback).
      (B)   Private tennis court fences shall not exceed ten (10) feet in
height.
      (C)   Above the height of six (6) feet, the fencing shall consist of an
open weave and not a complete barrier that inhibits flow of air and visibility.
      (D)   Private tennis court fences shall consist of a color which blends
with the natural surrounding area.
   (7)   Public utility fences or walls are exempt from the height limitations
and standards of this Ordinance if necessary to comply with national, state, or
local safety and security standards.
Section 9.10   Grading and Drainage
   (1)   There shall be no grading on or to any site other than percolation and
test borings (100 square feet maximum in size) prior to the issuance of a
Zoning Clearance and a Building Permit.
   (2)   During the construction period, the disturbed area shown on the
approved site plan shall be cordoned off with a temporary chain link fence a
minimum of six (6) feet in height.
      (A)   All construction sites must make all reasonable efforts to prevent
or control blowing dust and debris. (Ord. #2015-02)
      (B)   In the case of site grading and other construction operations, all
reasonable efforts shall be made to control blowing dust and debris onto
adjacent properties. (Ord. #2015-02)
      (C)   When grading operations involve the hauling of dirt from one site
to another, maintain public and/or private streets in a clean condition and
limit any spillage which would generate dust or other blowing debris. (Ord.
#2015-02)
      (D)   The approval of a dust prevention and control plan does not relieve
the owner or contractor of the responsibility to implement whatever additional
measures may be required to property prevent and control dust. (Ord. #2015-02)
   (3)   The total area of grading shall at no time exceed the maximum allowed
disturbed area as set forth in the table of intensity schedule/development
regulations in Article VI, Section 6.01 of this Ordinance. The following items
shall be counted towards the disturbed area:
      (A)   Any area enclosed by a solid masonry wall.
      (B)   Any area disturbed by the development of a driveway and associated
infrastructure.
      (C)   Any area disturbed by corrals, stables, the keeping of horses,
tennis courts, sports courts, and other accessory structures.
   (4)   Grading shall not disturb or obscure significant visual or
environmental features of the site including boulders, rock outcroppings,
archeological sites (as defined by either the state or a professional
archeologist), and/or washes that have a 100 year flow of 50 cubic feet per
second or greater.
      (A)   The historical entrance and exit points and hydraulic properties of
all natural drainage channels on a site shall be preserved in their natural
conditions.
      (B)   Any disturbance of boulder features on slopes greater than ten (10)
percent shall be supported by a geological analysis to ensure against any
potential inadvertent movement of the boulders during and after construction.
The Development Review Board shall approve such modifications of boulder
features.
   (5)   Grading or disturbance of natural terrain for the purpose of
installing a sewage disposal system shall be limited to seven (7) feet outside
of the edge of the sanitary infrastructure including, but not limited to, the
leaching bed or pits, tank and distribution box, and connecting lines as
required by the Maricopa County Health Department.
   (6)   All utility lines shall be located underground and whenever possible
within the driveway graded area. If this location is not feasible, then
disturbance of natural terrain for these utility line trenches shall be
confined to within four (4) feet of either side of the trenches. The
restoration and revegetation plans for these disturbed areas shall be approved
by the Development Review Board.
   (7)   Cut and fill slopes shall not typically exceed a slope of 3 to 1 with
a maximum vertical measurement of four (4) feet. Spill slopes are prohibited.
      (A)   Where a greater height is necessary, cut and fill slopes shall be
contained by retaining walls unless:
         1)   A licensed geologist determines through an analysis that the
slope is stable.
         2)   The slope is treated with an aging agent to restore it to a
natural appearance.
      (B)   The maximum height of a cut and/or retaining wall for a building
pad shall not exceed twelve (12) feet from natural grade and the building shall
screen the cut and/or retaining wall from view (see
Figure 9.4).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0003cd82274f329442d59f15d9f1a278f471274/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1477.png]
 
Figure 9.4: Example of maximum cut screened by home.
      (C)   The quantity of fill material shall not exceed the quantity of cut
material, unless otherwise approved by the Development Review Board (see
Figure 9.5). All excess cut material shall be removed from the site.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0003cd82274f329442d59f15d9f1a278f471274/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1479.png]
 
Figure 9.5: Example of appropriate cut and fill ratio.
      (D)   All cut and fill shall be constructed in a way to ensure they are
non-erosive.
   (8)   All retention/detention basins shall consist of vertically and
horizontally undulating banks with side slopes having less than a 4 to 1 ratio.
   (9)   Floodplain(s) containing a 24 hour, 100-year storm event discharge of
50 cubic feet per second or greater shall be delineated on all development
plans and shall illustrate appropriate erosion setbacks.
Section 9.11   Driveways
   (1)   The paved width of the driveway at the street shall be sixteen (16)
feet then diminish to twelve (12) feet unless otherwise approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
   (2)   Driveways with a ten (10%) percent slope or greater shall have a paved
width of fourteen (14) feet. Driveways with a fifteen (15) percent slope or
greater shall have a minimum paved width as required by the Development Review
Board and/or the Town’s fire service provider. The maximum slope of any
driveway shall not exceed fifteen (15) percent unless otherwise approved by the
Development Review Board and the Town’s fire service provider.
   (3)   The width of the disturbed area for the development of a driveway
shall not exceed twenty (20) feet unless otherwise approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
   (4)   A maximum one-third of the cross section width of a driveway at any
point may be on fill material, and a minimum of two-thirds of the cross section
width shall be on cut material or natural grade, unless otherwise approved by
the Zoning Administrator. Spill slopes are prohibited.
   (5)   Driveways over one hundred fifty (150) feet in length shall be
approved in writing by the Town’s fire service provider.
Section 9.12   Exterior Lighting
   (1)   Searchlights, exposed neon elements, mercury vapor, or high pressure
sodium fixtures are prohibited.
   (2)   Between the hours of 10 p.m. and sunrise, tennis court lighting, sport
court lighting, or any temporary lighting is prohibited.
   (3)   Motion-activated security lights (incandescent lamps with a maximum of
75 watts) that are shielded and automatically cycle off after five (5) minutes
and fossil fuel fixtures are exempt from this Ordinance.
   (4)   All free-standing light fixtures shall not exceed a height of four and
one-half (4.5) feet unless otherwise approved by the Development Review Board.
      (A)   In commercial zoning districts, the maximum height of parking lot
lights shall not exceed sixteen (16) feet from finished grade.
      (B)   Parking lot lights that exceed four and one-half (4.5) feet in
height shall be based on a photometric plan to ensure no light spillage occurs
over the property line onto adjacent properties and that the parking lot is
evenly lit.
   (5)   Wall mounted lighting shall not exceed a height of eight (8) feet
above finished grade and shall be shielded to avoid up-lighting and
concentrated hot spots (light) on the structures to which they are mounted.
Security lighting may be mounted on a structure no higher than twelve (12) feet
from finished grade.
   (6)   All outdoor light fixtures with a light source greater than 25 watts
shall be fully shielded such that the bulb is not visible from neighboring
property or public right-of-way. Those light fixtures exempt from this
Ordinance are not required to comply with the shielding requirements. Recessed
lights in exterior soffits, eaves, or ceilings shall have the light source
(bulb) recessed so that it is not visible.
   (7)   Light illuminating a sign shall be shielded and shall not project
above, below, or beyond the sign area.
   (8)   Landscape up-lighting shall not exceed twenty-five (25) watts per
fixture and shall be no closer than twenty (20) feet to another landscape
fixture. Landscape lighting is intended to highlight a landscape feature and
shall not illuminate beyond the subject feature it is intending to highlight.
   (9)   All light fixtures lawfully erected under County zoning regulations at
the effective date of incorporation, annexation, or under previous zoning
regulations in effect at the time of adoption of this Ordinance, or any
amendment thereof, shall be deemed legal non-conforming until such time as the
light fixture is replaced.
Section 9.13   Landscaping
   (1)   The following provisions apply to both residential and nonresidential
zoning districts.
      (A)   No zoning clearance or building permit shall be issued until a
landscape plan has been approved by the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning
Administrator may waive the requirement of a landscape plan if the project does
not contain any site disturbance or is deemed to be a minor modification.
      (B)   With the exception of removal of packrat nests and pruning of
diseased or dead tree limbs, no area on a subject lot or parcel, other than the
disturbed area (development envelope) prescribed in Article VI, Section
6.01 shall be disturbed. In order to preserve the desert character and identity
of the community, only native desert vegetation shall be maintained within the
required yards (building setbacks). Non native plant/tree/cacti (excluding
drought tolerant and/or desert hybrid) species are prohibited in the required
yards. The application of pre-emergence, grubbing, thinning or trimming of
vegetation shall be limited to the disturbed area. Protected plants shall not
be damaged, destroyed, or removed from any portion of a lot or parcel unless
deemed not salvageable on an approved landscape plan in association with a
building permit. During the site development phase, salvaged protected plants
shall be placed in a designated nursery and irrigated area until site work is
completed. Once site work is completed and landscaping has begun, subject
plants shall be transplanted within disturbed areas or alternative areas
approved by the Zoning Administrator. (Ord. #2007-05)
      (C)   If the Zoning Administrator interprets that a portion of the
required yard contains a collection of decaying plant material that is
susceptible to wildfires, that portion of material which presents a detriment
to public health, safety and welfare shall be removed by the property owner.
Additionally, vegetation within a thirty (30) foot fire suppressant buffer
consistent with the Town’s fire provider requirements may be thinned and
trimmed around buildings to better secure the structure from wildfires.
Protected plants shall include: (Ord. #2007-05)
         1)   Yucca.
         2)   Ocotillo.
         3)   All members of the cactus family with the exception of Cholla and
Prickly Pear.
         4)   Protected trees that are four (4) inches or greater in caliper
measured one (1) foot above native grade.
Table 9.1: Protected Plants (Trees and Shrubs).
Botanical Name Common Name
Botanical Name          Common Name
Acacia constricta       Whitethorn acacia
Acacia greggii          Catclaw acacia
Canotia holocantha      Crucifixion thorn
Celtis reticulate       Hackberry
Cercidium floridum      Blue palo verde
Cercidium mycrophylum   Foothills palo verde
Chilopsis linearis      Desert willow
Olney tesota            Ironwood
Populus fremontii       Cottonwood
Prosopis species        Mesquite
Quercus species         Scrub oak
Rhus ovata              Sugar sumac
Vauguelinea californica Arizona rosewood
 
      (D)   Protected plants shall not be damaged, destroyed, or removed from
any portion of a lot or parcel unless deemed not salvageable on an approved
landscape plan in association with a building permit. During the site
development phase, salvaged protected plants shall be placed in a designated
irrigated nursery area until site work is completed. Once site work is
completed and landscaping has begun, subject plants shall be transplanted
within the disturbed area or alternate areas of the lot approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
      (E)   All lawns or turfed areas not associated with a public recreation
amenity shall be completely enclosed by solid walls at least two (2) feet in
height above finished grade.
      (F)   Landscaping within all street right-of-ways shall consist of local
native desert species.
      (G)   All storm water retention and/or detention basins shall be
landscaped with native desert and/or xeriscape plants.
      (H)   Landscaping shall not exceed twenty-four (24) inches in height for
a linear distance of thirty (30) feet from a street intersection. This thirty
(30) foot distance defines the sight visibility triangle.
      (I)   Highly discouraged plant species are listed in the Single-Family
Design Guidelines and the Town’s Landscape Brochure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0003cd82274f329442d59f15d9f1a278f471274/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1481.png]
 
Figure 9.6: Example of a sight visibility triangle.
      (J)   The property owner and/or lessee shall maintain all landscape
materials and landscaped areas in accordance with an approved landscape plan.
Lack of proper maintenance shall constitute a violation of this Ordinance.
      (K)   Notice of maintenance violations shall be given to the property
owner and/or lessee by the Town not less than sixty (60) days prior to
commencement of any legal action.
      (L)   Protected plants that are disturbed without an approved landscaped
plan shall be replanted with similar size trees and/or shrubs at pre-existing
densities.
      (M)   The property owner and/or lessee shall be held jointly and
severally liable for violations.
Article X.   MOUNTAINSIDE DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0003cd82274f329442d59f15d9f1a278f471274/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1449.png]
 
Section 10.01   Introduction
Black Mountain and prominent hillsides throughout the Town serve as a valuable
intrinsic resource for community residents, businesses and visitors. For
purposes of this regulation, prominent features include slopes of twenty
percent (20%) and greater, ridgelines, boulder outcroppings, and significant
stands of protected plants. These features contribute to the Town’s identity
and help define Carefree’s sense of place. While these landforms offer a
desirable setting to view the valley floor, they also require unique
development standards due to the rigorous mountainside terrain and sensitive
upper Sonoran Desert environment.
Section 10.02   Purpose
   (1)   To protect the public from the natural hazards of erosion, rock
slides, and storm water runoff.
   (2)   To ensure that the built form adapts to the natural mountainside
topography, thereby reducing visually prominent scarring produced by streets,
driveways, building pads, and associated infrastructure servicing the
development.
   (3)   To preserve the natural integrity of prominent mountainsides and
ridgelines throughout the community.
Section 10.03   Identification of Mountainside Slopes and Environmentally
Sensitive Features
   (1)   A slope and site analysis is required for a proposed development if
the Zoning Administrator determines that a property contains one or more slopes
with a fifty (50) foot run perpendicular to the contour lines that rise twenty
percent (20%) or greater.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0003cd82274f329442d59f15d9f1a278f471274/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1483.png]
 
Figure 10.01: Method of determining whether a twenty percent (20%) slope exists
on a given property.
      (A)   The slope analysis shall have the following information:
         1)   A topographic map illustrating contours at two (2) foot intervals
at a minimum scale of one (1) inch equal to twenty (20) feet. The area for each
slope shall be illustrated on the map as follows:
            a)   Slopes less than 19.99%.
            b)   Slopes between 20% and 24.99%.
            c)   Slopes between 25% and 29.99%.
            d)   Slopes 30% and greater.
         2)   All grading plans shall include a calculation of the amount of
disturbed area in each of the slope categories listed above.
      (B)   The site analysis shall have the following information:
         1)   Identification of any ridgeline bisecting the site illustrated in
plan view and cross section.
         2)   Identification of any natural wash (including the respective
floodway and floodplain) bisecting the site. If the wash is recognized by the
Corps of Engineers as waters of the United States, it shall be identified as
such.
         3)   A geotechnical analysis of rock formations and soils.
         4)   Delineation of all active and inactive mines, mine shafts, well
sites, water tanks, and significant stands of vegetation.
Section 10.04   Criteria for Development Review Evaluation
   (1)   The Development Review Board shall have the authority to review and
approve or deny new Mountainside development as specified in this Article.
   (2)   The Board’s evaluation shall be based upon the following:
      (A)   Identification of environmentally sensitive features through:
         1)   A slope analysis as identified in Section
10.03.
         2)   A site analysis as identified in Section
10.03.
         3)   A composite map graphically illustrating the highest
environmentally sensitive and the lowest environmentally sensitive areas based
upon the combination of the slope and the site analysis. This composite map
shall be known as the Environmentally Sensitive Features Map.
         4)   The Development Review Board shall have the authority to approve,
deny, or require modifications of the Environmentally Sensitive Features Map to
further clarify the identification of environmentally sensitive features.
      (B)   The applicant shall overlay (on a separate plan) the location of
all site improvements relative to the identification of environmentally
sensitivity features. This plan shall be known as the Development Plan.
         1)   If any site improvements encroach within areas defined as the
most environmentally sensitive in the approved Environmentally Sensitive
Features Map, any relaxation of the underlying standards specified in Section
10.06 shall not be applicable. Such encroachment shall provide appropriate
engineering to ensure that public health, safety, and welfare are not
compromised. The Development Review Board shall have the authority to approve,
deny, or require modifications of respective improvements to ensure public
health, safety, and welfare are not compromised.
         2)   If the site improvements are located within portions of the
property that are determined by the approved Environmentally Sensitive Features
Map to be the least environmentally sensitive, the applicant may use the
relaxation of the standards specified in Section 10.06. To ensure that future
development does not infringe on the identified environmentally sensitive
features, the Development Review Board shall approve or modify the location and
the dedication of a conservation easement. Such conservation easement shall be
defined on the Development Plan with a legal description and the area
identified in square feet. This easement shall be recorded with a respective
subdivision, lot split or tie, and/or deed to the subject parcel or lot.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0003cd82274f329442d59f15d9f1a278f471274/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1485.png]
 
Figure 10.02: Flow chart illustrating process of Mountainside Regulations.
Section 10.05   Appeals
   (1)   The approval, with or without conditions, or denial by the Development
Review Board shall be final, unless within twenty-one (21) calendar days from
the date of the Board’s decision the applicant appeals the decision in writing
to the Town Council. Such appeal shall be submitted to the Town Clerk and shall
include a brief statement of the grounds of the appeal and the relief
requested. The Town Council shall hear such appeal at the next regularly
scheduled Council meeting if there is a minimum of fourteen (14) calendar days
before the next regularly scheduled Council meeting. If there is not a minimum
of fourteen (14) calendar days, such appeal shall be heard at the second
regularly scheduled meeting following the official filing of the appeal with
the Town Clerk. (Ord. #2013-02)
   (2)   The Town Council shall have the right and the prerogative to initiate
its own review of any decision by the Development Review Board and shall
uphold, modify, or over-rule said decision. Such a Council-initiated review
shall be considered at the first regularly scheduled Town Council meeting after
the Development Review Board’s decision or no later than the second regularly
scheduled Town Council meeting. If no review is initiated by the Town Council,
the Development Review Board’s decision shall be deemed to be final and binding
upon the Town of Carefree.
Section 10.06   Development Standards
The following Development Standards are designed to allow for some flexibility
to encourage unique, sensitive Mountainside development while balancing the
preservation of the natural mountainside terrain or features:
   (1)   The minimum lot size shall be consistent with the standards
established in
Article VI.
   (2)   In Rural-190 and Rural-70 zoning districts only, required yard
(building setback) regulations are:
      (A)   The minimum yard regulations shall be consistent with the standards
established in
Article VI; except, if one of the following conditions are met, the minimum
width of any two (2) required yard (building setback)s may be reduced by:
         1)   Twenty-five percent (25%) if fifteen percent (15%) or more of the
lot is preserved as a conservation easement.
         2)   Fifty percent (50%) if thirty percent (30%) or more of the lot is
preserved as a conservation easement.
         3)   Seventy-five percent (75%) if forty-five percent (45%) or more of
the lot is preserved as a conservation easement.
 
                  FRONT/REAR SETBACK SIDE SETBACK
CURRENT STANDARDS 60 feet            30 feet
25% RELAXATION    45 feet            22.5 feet
50% RELAXATION    30 feet            15 feet
75% RELAXATION    15 feet            7.5 feet
Table 10.1: Building setbacks for Rural-190 and Rural-70 based upon the above
schedule in Section
10.04(2)(A).
 
 
               RURAL-190                 RURAL-70
               (minimum 190,000 sq. ft.) (minimum 70,000 sq. ft.)
15% dedication 28,500 square feet        10,500 square feet
30% dedication 57,000 square feet        21,000 square feet
45% dedication 85,500 square feet        31,500 square feet
Table 10.2: Square footage of the Conservation Easement per Rural-190 and
Rural-70 zoning districts based upon the relaxed building setbacks specified
in Section 10.04(2)(A).
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0003cd82274f329442d59f15d9f1a278f471274/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1487.png]
 
Figure 10.3: Example of amended required yard (building setback) setback and
placement of conservation easement.
      (B)   The conservation easement prescribed above is in addition to any
conservation easement specified in any other part of this Article.
      (C)   If practical, the conservation easements shall be contiguous tracts
of land and shall:
         1)   Be placed adjacent to any conservation easements on neighboring
parcels or lots.
         2)   Preserve sensitive rock outcroppings, wildlife habitat, washes,
steep mountainsides, and significant desert vegetation such as saguaro, cacti
and mature desert trees.
         3)   Conservation easements are not transferable to another property;
however, easement boundaries may be adjusted to ensure they align with
neighboring easements and protect significant natural features. Such an
adjustment may not reduce the area or amount of previously approved
conservation easements. Any conservation easement adjustment must be approved
by the Development Review Board.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0003cd82274f329442d59f15d9f1a278f471274/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1489.png]
 
Figure 10.4: Example of conservation easement placed adjacent to one another
and preserving natural features on-site.
   (3)   Minimum lot width to be applied for new subdivisions and lot splits in
Rural-190 and Rural-70 zoning districts:
      (A)   The minimum lot width shall be consistent with standards
established in
Article VI; except, if one of the following conditions is met, the minimum lot
width may be reduced by:
      1)   Forty (40) feet if five percent (5%) or more of the lot is preserved
as a conservation easement.
      2)   Fifty (50) feet if ten percent (10%) or more of the lot is preserved
as a conservation easement.
      3)   Sixty (60) feet if fifteen percent (15%) or more of the lot is
preserved as a conservation easement.
 
                   RURAL-190                 RURAL-70
                   (minimum 190,000 sq. ft.) (minimum 70,000 sq. ft.)
CURRENT STANDARDS  300 feet                  230 feet
40 FOOT RELAXATION 260 feet                  190 feet
50 FOOT RELAXATION 250 feet                  180 feet
60 FOOT RELAXATION 240 feet                  170 feet
Table 10.3: Minimum lot width for Rural-190 and Rural-70 based upon the above
schedule in Section
10.04(3)(A).
 
 
               RURAL-190                 RURAL-70
               (minimum 190,000 sq. ft.) (minimum 70,000 sq. ft.)
5% DEDICATION  9,500 feet                3,500 square feet
10% DEDICATION 19,000 feet               7,000 square feet
15% DEDICATION 28,500 feet               10,500 square feet
Table 10.4: Square footage of the Conservation Easement per Rural-190 and
Rural-70 zoning districts based upon the relaxed minimum lot width specified
in Section
10.04(2)(A).
 
      (B)   The conservation easement prescribed above is in addition to any
conservation easement specified in any other part of this Article.
      (C)   If practical, the conservation easements shall be contiguous tracts
of land and shall:
         1)   Be placed adjacent to any conservation easements on neighboring
parcels or lots.
         2)   Preserve sensitive rock outcroppings, wildlife habitat, washes,
steep mountainsides, and significant desert vegetation such as saguaro cacti
and mature desert trees.
         3)   Conservation easements are not transferable to another property;
however, easement boundaries may be adjusted to ensure they align with
neighboring easements and protect significant natural features. Such an
adjustment may not reduce the area or amount of previously approved
conservation easements. Any conservation easement adjustment must be approved
by the Development Review Board.
   (4)   Site disturbance:
      (A)   All proposed cuts shall require a seismic refraction survey
performed by a registered geologist. If the geological report determines that
fractured or unstable rock exists, the proposed location of the building site
or appurtenances shall be moved to a stable location unless conditions can be
mitigated by an engineered design that creates a stable location. The
geological report shall be submitted to the Town with the development
application.
      (B)   A building envelope shall be delineated on each lot. The building
envelope may not exceed the maximum allowed disturbed area as established in
Article VI. The building envelope shall include all building pads, accessory
structures and buildings, areas enclosed by a solid masonry wall, sewage
facilities, and driveway as prescribed in Section 10.06(5) below.
      (C)   Disturbed area in association with a sewage disposal system shall
be confined within five (5) feet of the outside edge of leaching bed, pits,
tanks, distribution box, and connecting lines as required by the Maricopa
County Health Department. Such disturbed area shall be included within the
maximum disturbed area prescribed in Article VI.
      (D)   All utilities shall be located underground and within the graded
areas for the driveway and streets, unless otherwise approved by the
Development Review Board. Such approval shall be based on the quality of the
revegetation/restoration plan of the disturbed area.
         1)   Utility trenches shall be located within the building envelope.
         2)   Trenching for utilities shall be confined to three (3) feet on
either side of the lines.
      (E)   The quantity of fill material shall not exceed the quantity of cut
material unless otherwise approved by the Development Review Board. All excess
cut material shall be removed from the site.
      (F)   Spill slopes are prohibited in the development of building
envelopes, building pads, driveways, and streets.
      (G)   All fill slopes shall be contained by retaining walls.
      (H)   The maximum height of cuts for the building pad(s) shall not exceed
twelve (12) feet above natural grade and shall be totally screened by the
building.
   (5)   Driveways:
      (A)   Grading for driveways shall be included in the calculations for
total d area prescribed in Article VI and subject to the following exceptions
and conditions:
         1)   Driveways constructed at grade and surfaced with pavers or
exposed aggregate specifically colored to blend with the adjacent natural
desert floor shall not be included in the disturbed area calculations.
         2)   Driveways with cut or fill in excess of eighteen (18) inches and
surfaced with pavers or exposed aggregate specifically colored to blend with
the adjacent natural desert floor shall be included in the disturbed area
calculations at a ratio of fifty percent (50%) of the total disturbed area of
the driveway.
         3)   Driveways with cut or fill in excess of eighteen (18) inches and
surfaced with asphalt or uncolored concrete shall be included in the disturbed
area calculations at a ratio of one hundred percent (100%) of the total
disturbed area of the driveway.
      (B)   A maximum of one-third (1/3) of the driveway cross section may be
on fill material. A minimum of two-thirds (2/3) of the cross section width may
be on cut material or natural grade.
      (C)   Driveways with a ten percent (10%) slope or greater shall have a
maximum paved width of twelve (12) feet.
      (D)   The maximum driveway slope shall not exceed eighteen percent (18%).
      (E)   Driveways over one hundred and fifty (150) feet in length shall
receive approval in writing by the Town’s fire service provider.
   (6)   Streets (public and private):
      (A)   A maximum of one-third (1/3) of the street cross section width may
be on fill material. A minimum of two-thirds (2/3) of the cross section width
may be on cut material or natural grade.
      (B)   No spill slopes are permitted. All fill slopes shall be retained by
retaining walls that blend into the surrounding natural environment. If a
registered geologist determines that stable rock exists to retain the slope,
then no retaining wall may be needed. If rock is disturbed by cutting into the
mountainside, desert varnish or similar treatment shall be used to return a
natural appearance to the disturbed area(s) .
      (C)   If practical, all utilities shall be installed within the right-of-
way street improvements.
      (D)   Mountainside streets shall be designed to AASHTO “Local Service
Road” (design speed of fifteen miles per hour, posted maximum speed of ten
miles per hour) standards using the following criteria:
         1)   Maximum grade shall not exceed eighteen (18) percent.
         2)   Minimum horizontal curve radius shall be thirty-five (35) feet.
         3)   Minimum width of street shall be eighteen (18) feet back of curb
to back of curb. Streets having a minimum width of eighteen (18) feet shall
contain pullouts. Each ribbon curb shall be one (1) foot wide consisting of
integrated concrete that blends into the surrounding natural environment.
Vertical curbing shall only be used where safety and drainage issues
necessitate a vertical application.
         4)   Minimum width of each shoulder shall be one (1) foot.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0003cd82274f329442d59f15d9f1a278f471274/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1491.png]
 
Figure 10.5: Example of Mountainside street cross section.
   (7)   Building Height:
      (A)   No part of any structure may rise more than twenty-four (24) feet
above natural and finished grade directly below. Where a building intersects a
ridgeline on a mountainside with side slopes of fifteen (15%) or greater, the
height of any structure from the highest point of natural grade of the
ridgeline (directly below the proposed structure) shall not exceed twelve (12)
feet.
      (B)   No wall of any principal structure shall exceed a height of
eighteen (18) feet without a significant physical, architectural, or visual
break of six (6) feet in the horizontal plane.
      (C)   The cumulative height shall not exceed forty (40) feet from the
lowest natural grade under the structure (except basements) to the highest
parapet or roof ridge inclusive of any accessory structure within fifty (50)
feet of the principal structure. Accessory structures include cantilevered
swimming pools and retaining walls.
      (D)   Structures employing the use of a cantilever of a balcony or patio
may extend the cantilever a horizontal distance twice the height of the
support. The maximum vertical height of the support shall be eight (8) feet
from natural grade. If maintained in its natural condition, only fifty percent
(50%) of the area beneath the cantilevered element shall be calculated as
disturbed area.
      (E)   Structures suspended over a wash shall have a maximum building
height of twenty-four (24) feet. Height of suspended structures shall be
measured from the lowest point of the structure being suspended to the highest
point of the roof. Columns or other support structures that are not more than
eight (8) feet in depth or width shall not be counted towards the height of the
suspended structure.
      (F)   No part of any accessory structure may rise more than sixteen (16)
feet above natural and finished grade directly below.
   (8)   Distance between buildings:
      (A)   The minimum distance between a primary building on the subject lot
and a primary building or accessory building on an adjacent parcel or lot shall
be fifty (50) feet. This distance may be reduced through the approval of the
Development Review Board. Such a reduction may be granted based upon the
natural terrain and vegetation that provide a buffer and physical separation
between the respective buildings.
   (9)   Buildings:
      (A)   When a cut is necessary, the angle of inclination of the
mountainside at the intersection with the building shall not be changed.
Building walls shall be used as retaining wall(s) unless otherwise approved by
the Development Review Board.
   (10)   Walls and Fences:
      (A)   Walls and fences that are otherwise permissible in Article IX,
Section 9.09 are prohibited on mountainsides with slopes of twenty percent
(20%) or greater unless otherwise specified within this section.
      (B)   Retaining walls, tennis court fences, pool barriers, courtyard
enclosures, and walls used to screen mechanical equipment areas are permitted
in mountainside areas provided that:
         1)   Pool barriers shall be five (5) feet tall as measured from
finished grade outside of the pool enclosure and shall use materials, colors,
and/or forms that blend into the surrounding natural environment. All areas
within a pool enclosure shall be included in disturbed area calculations.
         2)   Tennis court fencing shall not exceed ten (10) feet in height as
measured from the playing surface and shall use colors that blend into the
surrounding natural environment. All areas within tennis court fencing shall be
included within disturbed area calculations.
         3)   Mechanical screen walls shall not exceed four and one half (4.5)
feet in height and shall use materials, colors, and forms that blend into the
surrounding natural environment. All areas within mechanical screen walls shall
be included the disturbed area calculations.
         4)   Retaining walls shall not exceed a maximum height of seven (7)
feet. However, this height requirement may be waived by the Development Review
Board if a creative treatment is considered which utilizes building materials,
forms and colors which blend into the surrounding desert landforms and
vegetation.
            a)   Any retaining wall of more than seven (7) feet in height
(measured from outside finished grade) shall be terraced with the upper section
not to exceed four (4) feet in height and a minimum of five (5) feet of level
landscaped soil between the sections.
            b)   Retaining walls less than seven (7) feet in height (measured
from outside finished grade) may be terraced with the upper section not to
exceed three (3) feet in height and a minimum of three (3) feet of level
landscaped soil between the sections.
         5)   Retaining walls shall be used for the purpose of containing fill
material or to minimize cut or fill slopes.
         6)   Courtyard enclosures within the buildable area (outside of the
required yards) shall not exceed a height of six (6) feet (measured from
outside finished grade). Any associated gate shall not exceed a height of ten
(10) feet. All areas within a courtyard enclosure shall be included with the
disturbed area calculations.
         7)   No solid masonry wall is permitted in a required front yard
(front yard building setback).
   (11)   Exterior lighting shall meet all provisions of Article IX, Section
9.12.
   (12)   Landscaping shall meet all provisions of Article IX, Section
9.13.
   (13)   Drainage parameters shall meet all provisions of Article IX, Section
9.10.
Article XI.   NONCONFORMING USES
Section 11.01   General
   (1)   This Article provides for the regulation of legal nonconforming
buildings, structures, uses, and lots. These regulations are designed to
protect the rights of legally existing nonconforming buildings, structures,
uses, and lots but not promote expansion or enlargement. The buildings,
structures, uses, and lots will be encouraged to convert to a conforming use in
the future.
   (2)   Any use or activity lawfully conducted under County zoning regulations
at the effective date of incorporation, annexation, or under previous zoning
regulations in effect at the adoption of this Ordinance, or any amendment,
shall be considered a legal nonconforming use under this Ordinance.
Section 11.02   Nonconforming Buildings, Structures, and Uses
   (1)   No structural or physical alteration shall be made to any
nonconforming building, structure, or lot unless otherwise allowed by these
regulations. This requirement does not prohibit routine repairs or maintenance.
   (2)   No expansion shall be made of any nonconforming building, structure,
or use unless such expansion conforms to the regulations specified for the
district in which it is located. In cases where the nonconforming use occupies
a building, structure, or any portion of a site, expanding the use into an
additional building or land area shall constitute an extension and shall not be
allowed.
   (3)   Any nonconforming building, structure, or use, or one (1) or more of a
group of nonconforming buildings, structures, or uses related to one (1)
industry and under one (1) ownership, which has been damaged by war, riot,
fire, flood, explosion, earthquake, or other act of God may be reconstructed
and used as before, if commenced within six (6) months of such calamity. The
Town Council, after review and recommendation by the Planning and Zoning
Commission, may determine that any delay in reconstruction beyond six (6)
months was caused by unforeseen circumstances beyond the control of the owner
of the premises and permit a reasonable extension of time for reconstruction.
Any district requirements may be waived by the Town Council provided the area
restored is not more nonconforming than existed at the time of the calamity.
   (4)   Any nonconforming building, structure, or use which ceases to be used
for a period exceeding six (6) months or is superseded by a conforming use
shall never again be devoted to the nonconforming use except as otherwise
provided in the preceding paragraph. A nonconforming use shall not be changed
to a different nonconforming use. This shall not prevent a name change or
change in ownership of the same nonconforming use.
Section 11.03   Nonconforming Lots
   (1)   Any legal lot existing at the time of the enactment of this Ordinance
or any amendment, which does not conform with lot area, lot width, or lot depth
for the zoning district in which it is located, may be used for any use
permitted in that zoning district provided all other applicable regulations of
this Zoning Ordinance are complied with.
   (2)   Any lot, after this Ordinance or amendments thereto become effective,
shall not be reduced in any manner below the lot area and dimension
requirements of this Ordinance for the zoning district in which it is located
or, if a lot is already less than the minimum so required, such lot area or
dimension shall not be further reduced.
   (3)   Any lot, after this Ordinance or amendments thereto become effective,
shall not be reduced or diminished so as to cause the yards, lot coverage, or
other open spaces to be less than that required by this Ordinance. The lot area
per dwelling unit shall not be decreased to less than required by this
Ordinance.
Section 11.04   Development Standards
Development standards relate to the size, configuration, and character of
development. Development standards include but are not limited to items such as
parking, landscaping, buffer areas, and setbacks. Developed property may be
nonconforming because the development of the property does not meet current
Zoning Ordinance requirements. Property which is legally nonconforming due to
deficiencies in development standards, shall be regulated as follows:
   (1)   No change of use or change to a building structure shall be permitted
which creates a deficit or increases an existing deficit in off-street parking
spaces, loading areas, or other development standards.
   (2)   Any request for a permit or change to a nonconforming site which
requires review or approval by the Planning and Zoning Commission and the Town
Council shall, as a requirement of that review, be brought into compliance with
the Zoning Ordinance and other applicable codes unless otherwise stipulated by
the Planning and Zoning Commission and Town Council. These changes shall
conform with but are not limited to the current development standards for
parking, circulation, driveways, drainage, storage, screening, signs, color,
and landscaping.
 
