Casa Grande, Arizona
Code of Ordinances
 
   Contains 2025 S-38,
current through Ordinance 1397.02.22, passed 7-21-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
CHARTER OF THE CITY OF CASA GRANDE, ARIZONA
ARTICLE I. INCORPORATION, FORM OF GOVERNMENT, POWERS, AND BOUNDARIES
Sec. 1. Incorporation.
   The inhabitants of the City of Casa Grande, within the corporate limits as
now established or as hereafter established in the manner provided by law,
shall continue to be a municipal body politic and corporate in perpetuity,
under the name of the “City of Casa Grande, Arizona.”
Sec. 2. Form of government.
   The municipal government provided by this Charter shall be known as COUNCIL-
MANAGER GOVERNMENT. Pursuant to its provisions and subjects only to the
limitations imposed by the State Constitution and by this Charter, all powers
of the city shall be vested in an elective council, hereinafter referred to as
“the council,” which shall enact local legislation, adopt budgets, determine
policies, and appoint the city manager and such other officers deemed necessary
and proper for the orderly government and administration of the affairs of the
city as prescribed by the Constitution and applicable laws, and ordinances
hereafter adopted by the city. All powers of the city shall be exercised in the
manner prescribed in this Charter, or if they be not prescribed, then in such
manner as may be prescribed by ordinance.
Sec. 3. Powers of the city.
   The city shall have all the powers, functions, rights, privileges and
immunities possible under the Constitution and general laws of Arizona as fully
as though they were specifically enumerated in this Charter, and all of the
powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities granted or to be granted,
either expressly or by implication, to charter cities and to cities and towns
incorporated under the provisions of Title 9, Arizona Revised Statutes, not in
conflict herewith, and in addition, the city:
   (1)   May acquire property within or without its corporate limits for any
city purpose in fee simple or lesser interest or estate by purchase, gift,
devise, lease or condemnation. The city may lease, sell, convey and otherwise
dispose of any real or personal property owned by the city in the manner, for
such consideration, and upon such conditions as may be determined by the
council.
   (2)   May designate and establish as floodways or flood plains, areas of
land within the boundaries of the city reasonably required or necessary to
improve, extend, maintain or facilitate the control or discharge of waters of
rivers and streams and intermittent flowing creeks, washes, arroyos, drains and
channels together with surfaces and flood waters so as to prevent the loss of
or injury to lives and damage to property and prevent and prohibit
encroachments and obstructions within the floodway and flood plain areas so
designated and established by the city together with criminal and civil
penalties for the violations thereof.
   (3)   May adopt, and may from time to time modify, a comprehensive plan of
the future physical development of the city to serve as a guide to all future
council action concerning land use regulations and expenditures for capital
improvements, and the council may by ordinance implement said comprehensive
plan by adopting land use and development regulations including, but not
limited to, an official map and zoning and subdivision regulations.
   (4)   May levy and collect assessments and file liens on real property to
collect amounts owed to the city for garbage and trash collection and sewer
rental charges and reasonable amounts expended by the city in the abatement of
any nuisance, demolition and removal of any legally condemned building or
structure and the cleaning and renovating of vacant lots which are offensive to
the sight or smell or hazardous to the public health.
   (5)   May prescribe the number of times a notice is to be published, the
place of publications and the form of such notice when publication of a notice
in a newspaper is directed or authorized by law.
   (6)   May control and regulate the use and enjoyment of its streets and
alleys, public grounds, or ways.
   (7)   May require all persons, firms, or corporations responsible for new
physical development within the city to provide for or furnish, or pay a fee in
lieu of providing for or furnishing:
   (a)   public facility easements; (b) water production, storage and
transmission; (c) sewage collection, treatment and disposal; (d) park land and
development; (e) school sites; (f) dedication and improvement of public rights-
of-way; (g) bike paths and other necessary transportation; (h) drainage; (i)
flood control; and (j) other public facilities necessary to maintain
satisfactory levels of service for said new development, as provided by
ordinance which shall include definite standards basing the foregoing
requirements on the needs of the inhabitants of said new development.
   (8)   May require architectural and site plan review and approval prior to
the development, construction, reconstruction, or conversion of any building or
structure other than a detached single-family dwelling.
   (9)   May adopt specific plans for and use for areas within the city for the
purpose of refining the comprehensive plan.
   (10)   May require removal of all signs not conforming to the zoning
ordinance. Signs not in conformance upon the effective date of this charter
shall have the privilege of amortization as determined by ordinance.
   (11)   May provide remedies to prevent, abate, and control pollution,
including pollution of the air, water, and noise pollution and exercise its
rights and privileges under equity or under common law or statutory law to
suppress nuisances or to abate pollution in any form.
   (12)   May exercise any of its powers or perform any of its functions, and
may participate in the financing thereof jointly or in cooperation, by contract
or otherwise, with any one or more states, political subdivisions, school
districts, Indian tribal councils, or any board, commission or agency, a
combination of them, or with the United States or any department or agency
thereof.
   The enumeration of particular powers by this Charter shall not be deemed to
be exclusive, and in addition to the powers enumerated herein or implied
hereby, or appropriate to the exercise of such powers, it is intended that the
city shall have and may exercise all powers which under the Constitution of
this state, it would be competent for this Charter specifically to enumerate.
Sec. 4. Boundaries.
   The boundaries of the city shall be the boundaries as established at the
time this Charter takes effect, or as such boundaries may be changed thereafter
in the manner authorized by law.
ARTICLE II. THE COUNCIL
Sec. 1. Powers of the council.
   All powers of the city, not in conflict with the Constitution of the State
of Arizona and subject to the limitations of this Charter, shall be vested in
the council, which shall enact appropriate legislation and do and perform any
and all acts and things which may be necessary and proper to carry out these
powers or any of the provisions of this charter.
Sec. 2. Number; selection.
   The council shall consist of a mayor and six council members elected from
the city at large.
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
Sec. 3. Elections.
   The first general election for the office of mayor and council members under
the terms of this Charter, shall be held the fourth Tuesday in May, 1975.
Commencing in 1977, and every two years thereafter, the General election shall
be held on the second available calendar election date as provided in state
law, as amended from time to time. Should state law be amended to no longer set
forth consolidated election dates, the general election shall be held on the
third Tuesday in May.
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
Sec. 4. Term of mayor.
   The council member serving as mayor on the date this Charter takes effect
shall continue to serve until a successor is elected at the General election
held in 1975 and qualified, and such successor shall serve as mayor until the
first regular meeting of the council following the General election of 1977 or
until a successor is duly elected and qualified. Commencing with the Primary
and General elections held in 1977, the mayor shall be elected for a term of
two years and serve until a successor is elected and qualified. No person shall
be eligible to succeed himself or herself in the office of mayor for more than
four consecutive terms.
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
Sec. 5. Term of council members.
   Council members, not serving as mayor on the date this charter takes effect
and whose terms would regularly expired in 1975, shall continue to serve until
their successors are elected at the elections held in 1975 under the terms of
Section 3 of this Article. Other council members serving on the date this
Charter takes effect and whose terms would regularly expire in 1977, shall
continue to serve until their successors are elected in 1977 under the terms of
Section 3 of this Article. Council members elected at the 1975 elections and
thereafter, shall serve for a term of four years and until their successors are
elected and qualified. Commencing with the primary and general elections held
in 2024, no person shall be eligible to succeed himself or herself in the
office of council member for more than three full consecutive terms. Any
service prior to the 2024 elections shall not be counted as consecutive terms
for purposes of these limits.
(Res. 5490, § 1 (part), 2022)
Sec. 6. Qualifications.
   The mayor and the council members shall be qualified electors of the city
and shall hold no other public office for which they receive compensation
except that of a notary public or member of the National Guard or naval or
military reserve, and shall have resided in said city for three years next
preceding the date of such election or appointment. If the mayor or a council
member shall cease to possess any of these qualifications or shall be convicted
of a crime involving moral turpitude, that office shall immediately become
vacant. City employees are not eligible to stand for election or serve as mayor
or as members of the city council. No person shall be eligible for the office
of mayor who shall not have attained the age of 25 years, and no person shall
be eligible for the office of council member who shall not have attained the
age of 21 years.
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
Sec. 7. Duties of mayor.
   The mayor shall be the chairperson of the council and preside over its
deliberations. The mayor may make and second motions and shall have a voice and
vote in all its proceedings. He or she shall be recognized as head of the city
government for all purposes and by the governor for purposes of military law.
The mayor shall have no regular administrative duties, but shall, on behalf of
the council, confer and advise with the city manager to insure that council
programs and policies are being carried out in full. In addition thereto, the
mayor shall govern the city by proclamation during times of riot, civil
insurrection, major disaster and times of great public danger.
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
Sec. 8. Mayor pro tempore.
   The council shall designate one of its members as mayor pro tempore, who
shall serve in such capacity at the pleasure of the council. The mayor pro
tempore shall perform the duties of the mayor during his or her absence or
disability.
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
Sec. 9. Salaries of the mayor and council members.
   The annual salaries of the mayor and council shall be as determined by
ordinance, but shall not be decreased or increased during the current term of
council members enacting such ordinance.
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
Sec. 10. Council to be judge of qualifications of its members.
   The council shall be the judge of the election and qualifications of its
members and for such purpose shall have power to subpoena witnesses and require
the production of records, but the decision of the council in any such case
shall be subject to review by the courts.
Sec. 11. Induction of mayor and council into office.
   At 7:00 p.m. on the first regular meeting during the month next following
the general election, the council shall hold a meeting for the purpose of
inducting the newly elected mayor and council members, and to organize the
council.
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
Sec. 12. Absence to terminate membership.
   If the mayor or any council member shall be absent from more than two
consecutive regular meetings without the consent of the council duly recorded
in the journal, such member shall thereupon cease to hold office.
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
Sec. 13. Vacancies in council and office of mayor.
   A.   In case of vacancy in the office of mayor, the mayor pro tempore of the
council shall act as mayor until such vacancy is filled as provided in this
Charter. In case of a vacancy in the office of mayor, it shall be lawful and
proper for the remaining members of the council to select a seventh member of
such council and such seven council members shall select from among their
number, one who shall be mayor. Such selection shall be had at any special
session of the council called for that purpose, and the selection of such mayor
thereat shall be duly noted in the minutes of the council, and upon
qualification, such selected mayor shall continue in office as mayor until the
expiration of the term for which the mayor has been elected or appointed. In
the case of vacancy of a member of the council, the vacancy shall be filled for
the unexpired term in like manner as above prescribed for filling a vacancy in
the office of mayor.
   B.   Such vacancy shall exist except under the recall provisions of this
Charter, when an elective officer fails to qualify within thirty (30) days
after commencement of his or her term, dies, resigns, removes from the city,
absents from the duties of office without the consent of the council as
provided in this Charter, is convicted of violating any of the provisions of
this Charter, or of a felony, or is judicially declared an incapacitated person
as defined by statute.
   C.   Should a tie vote occur in an attempt to select someone to fill such
vacancy, and because thereof, there shall be a failure to choose for a period
of five days, the city judge shall be entitled to vote in the same manner and
with the same effect as a member of the council for the sole purpose of filling
the vacancy.
   D.   Such vacancies as hereinabove set forth, shall be filled within thirty
(30) days following such vacancies.
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
Sec. 14. Meetings of council, boards, commissions and committees.
   A.   The council shall meet regularly at such times and at such places as
may be prescribed by its rules, but not less frequently than two times each
month. Notices of such meetings shall be posted in places convenient to the
public and the places of such posting shall be kept on file with the city
clerk.
   B.   All meetings of the city's council, boards, commissions and committees
shall be open to the public; provided that executive sessions of such bodies
may be held as provided by state law.
   C.   Minutes of executive sessions shall be kept confidential except from
members of the governing body which met in executive session.
   D.   No executive session may be held for the purpose of taking any final
action or making any final decision.
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
Sec. 15. Special meetings.
   The mayor may, or at the request of three members of the council, shall, by
giving notice thereof to all members of the council, or leaving the same at
their usual place of abode, call a special meeting of the council for a time
not earlier than twenty-four hours after the notice is given. Special meetings
of the council may also be held at any time by the common consent of 5/7ths of
the members of the council. In case of a catastrophic emergency, a meeting may
be held upon such notice as is appropriate to the circumstances. At such
meeting, business concerning only such emergency shall be acted upon.
Sec. 16. Rules of procedure; journal.
   The council shall determine its own rules and order of business subject to
the provisions of this Charter. It shall keep a journal of its proceedings and
the journal shall be open to public inspection.
Sec. 17. Quorum; ayes and nays.
   A majority of the members of the council shall constitute a quorum, but a
smaller number may adjourn from day to day or from time to time until a quorum
can be compelled. The vote on any question shall be by ayes and nays and shall
be entered in the journal. At the request of any member of the council, a roll
call vote shall be taken.
Sec. 18. Failure to vote.
   No member of the council shall be excused from voting except on matters
involving the consideration of his or her own official conduct or in such
matters as he or she may have a conflict of interest as set forth in the
existing laws of this state. In all other cases, each council member must cast
a vote of aye or nay.
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
Sec. 19. Consideration of petitions.
   Any citizen of the city may appear before the council at any regular meeting
and present a written petition. Such petitions shall be considered by the
council, in the regular course of business within thirty (30) days.
Sec. 20. Interference in administrative service.
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this Charter, neither the council nor
any of its members shall interfere with the execution by the city manager of
its powers and duties, or order, directly or indirectly, the appointment by the
city manager of any person to an office or employment or any person’s removal
therefrom. Except for purposes of inquiry, the council and its members shall
deal with the administrative service under the city manager solely through the
city manager, and neither the council nor any member thereof shall give orders
to any subordinate of the city manager, either publicly or privately.
   B.   Nothing in this section shall be construed, however, as prohibiting the
council while in open session from fully and freely discussing with or
suggesting to the city manager anything pertaining to city affairs or the
interests of the city.
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
Sec. 21. Conduct of council as to powers authorized by charter when no
procedure established by state law.
   Whenever, by any provisions of this Charter, it is prescribed that any
power, duty or procedure shall or may be exercised, performed or adopted in the
manner established by any law of this state, and there be no procedure
established by law therefor, then the council shall by ordinance prescribe the
procedure.
ARTICLE III. THE CITY MANAGER
Sec. 1. Appointment of city manager.
   The council shall appoint a city manager who shall be an officer of the city
and who shall have the powers and perform the duties provided in this Charter.
No council member shall receive such appointment during the term for which he
or she shall have been elected nor within one year after the expiration of his
or her term. The council shall have the discretion of entering into a written
employment contract with the city manager, but in no event shall the term of
such contract be for a period longer than twenty-four months.
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
Sec. 2. The city manager; qualifications.
   The city manager shall be chosen by the council solely on the basis of
executive and administrative qualifications with special reference to actual
experience in, or knowledge of, accepted practice in respect to the duties of
the office as hereinafter set forth. At the time of appointment, he or she need
not be a resident of the city or state, but during tenure of office the city
manager shall reside within the city.
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
Sec. 3. City manager; powers and duties.
   The city manager shall be the chief administrative officer and head of the
administrative branch of the city government. The city manager shall be
responsible for the proper administration of all affairs of the city and to
that end, subject to the provisions of this Charter, shall have the power and
shall be required to:
   (1)   Devote his or her entire time to the discharge of official duties,
attend all meetings of the council unless excused therefrom by the council or
mayor.
   (2)   See that all ordinances are enforced and that the provisions of all
franchises, leases, contracts, permits and privileges granted by the city are
observed.
   (3)   Appoint, and when determined necessary for the good of the city, lay-
off, suspend, transfer, demote or remove any department head, officer or
employee of the city, subject to such merit system regulations as the council
may adopt. This section shall not apply to the city judge and the city
attorney, who shall be appointed by the council as hereinafter provided.
   (4)   Prepare the annual budget estimates and submit them to the council and
be responsible for the administration of the budget after adoption;
   (5)   Keep the council advised at all times of the affairs and needs of the
city, and make reports annually, or more frequently if requested by the
council, of all the affairs of the city.
   (6)   Have such other powers, duties and functions as this Charter may
prescribe, and such powers, duties and functions consistent with this Charter
as the council may prescribe.
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
Sec. 4. Right of city manager to seat in council.
   The city manager shall be entitled to a seat at the council meetings, but
shall have no vote therein. The city manager shall have the right to attend all
meetings and take part in the discussions of all matters coming before the
council, with the exception of those dealing with his or her conduct or
performance.
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
Sec. 5. Acting city manager.
   By letter filed with the city clerk, the manager shall designate, subject to
approval of the council, qualified city administrative officers to exercise the
powers and perform the duties of the manager during the manager’s temporary
absence or disability. During such temporary absence or disability, the council
may revoke such designation at any time and appoint another officer of the city
to serve until the manager shall return or the disability shall cease.
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
Sec. 6. Removal of city manager.
   A.   The council may remove the city manager without cause by the
affirmative vote of two thirds of its members; provided that for incompetence,
malfeasance, misfeasance, or neglect of duty the city manager may be removed by
the affirmative vote of a majority of its members. At least thirty (30) days
before the passage of a resolution for such removal, the council shall by a
majority of its members adopt a preliminary resolution of intention, and, if
the removal is for cause, said resolution shall state the reason for removal.
In either case, the city manager may within ten (10) days reply in writing and
may request a public hearing which shall be held not earlier than twenty (20)
days nor later than thirty (30) days from the passage of the aforesaid
preliminary resolution. After such public hearing, if one can be requested, and
after full consideration, but not earlier than thirty (30) days after the
passage of the preliminary resolution, the council may adopt a final resolution
of removal. By the preliminary resolution the council may suspend the manager
from duty. If the removal is for cause, the council shall cause to be paid any
salary due to the date of the preliminary resolution and suspension. Otherwise,
the manager shall be paid forthwith, upon removal without cause such amounts as
may be set forth in an employment contract, or if not subject to an employment
contract, his or her salary for the next three (3) calendar months following
the adoption of the preliminary resolution of removal.
   B.   In removing the city manager, the council shall act at its discretion
and its action shall be final and shall not depend upon any particular showing
or degree of proof at the hearing, the purpose of which is to allow the city
manager to present to the council the grounds of opposition to removal prior to
its action.
   C.   The action of the council in suspending or removing the manager shall
be final and conclusive on everyone, it being the intention of this Charter to
vest all authority and fix all responsibility for such suspension and removal
in the council.
   D.   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the city manager shall
not be removed from office, other than for misconduct in office, during or
within a period of ninety days next succeeding any general municipal election
held in the city at which election a member of the council is elected or when a
new council member is appointed. After the expiration of the ninety day period,
the provisions of this section as to the removal of said city manager shall
apply and be effective.
   E.   The city manager shall provide the council a minimum of forty-five (45)
days written notice of intention to resign his or her position. The city
manager shall assist the council in the recruitment and selection of a
replacement at the request of the council. In the event of resignation due to
health reasons, the period of written notice shall be determined in conference
between the city manager and the council.
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
ARTICLE IV. ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS, OFFICES AND EMPLOYEES
Sec. 1. Administrative departments and offices.
   A.   The council, by ordinance not inconsistent with this charter, shall
provide for the organization, conduct and operation of the several offices and
departments of the city as established by this Charter, for the creation of
additional departments, divisions, offices and agencies and for their
consolidation, alteration or abolition.
   B.   The council may assign additional functions or duties to offices,
departments or agencies. Where the positions are not incompatible, the council
may combine in one person the powers and duties of two or more offices created
or authorized by this Charter.
   C.   The council shall provide for the number, title, qualifications,
powers, duties and compensations of all officers and employees of the city.
Sec. 2. City clerk.
   The city manager shall, with approval of the council, appoint an officer,
who shall have the title of City Clerk, who shall be responsible to the city
manager, and who shall give notice of all council meetings, keep the journal of
the council's proceedings authenticated by his or her signature, and record in
full in books kept for the purposes, all ordinances and resolutions, and
perform such other duties as shall be required by this charter or by law.
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
Sec. 3. City treasurer.
   The city manager shall, with approval of the council, appoint an officer who
shall have the title of City Treasurer, who shall be responsible to the city
manager, and who shall receive and have custody of all the money of the city,
and shall keep and save said money, and dispense with the same only as provided
by ordinance, and who shall always be bound by the Constitution, laws of the
state, charter of the city, and ordinances, and upon whom legal garnishments
may be served.
Sec. 4. City attorney.
   The council shall appoint the city attorney, who shall be an attorney at
law, duly licensed to practice in the State of Arizona, who shall be the chief
legal advisor of all officers, departments and agencies and of all officers and
employees in matters relating to their official powers and duties. The city
attorney shall represent the city in all legal proceedings. It shall be his or
her duty to perform all services incident to the position as may be required by
statute by this Charter or by law.
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
Sec. 5. Merit basis of appointment.
   Appointments and promotions in the administrative service of the city shall
be made in accordance to merit and fitness to be ascertained, so far as is
practicable, by competitive examination.
Sec. 6. Merit system to be established.
   The council shall, by ordinance, provide for the establishment of a merit
system for the purpose of regulating and controlling the appointments of all
officers and employees of the city except those elected by the people and also
except the city manager, city attorney and city judge, or such other positions
as designated by the council from time to time.
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
ARTICLE V. APPOINTIVE BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Sec. 1. Appointive boards and commissions.
   The council may, by ordinance, create or abolish boards, commissions or
committees as in its judgment are required, and may grant to them such power
and duties as are consistent with the provisions of this Charter.
Sec. 2. Mayor and city manager, ex-officio members.
   The mayor may appoint himself/herself, or any member of the council, or the
city manager as an ex-officio member, without voting privileges, of any or all
boards and commissions.
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
ARTICLE VI. FINANCE AND TAXATION
Sec. 1. Fiscal.
   The powers of the city concerning budget, taxation, financial and fiscal
powers shall be limited only by the provisions of the Constitution and laws of
the State and this Charter.
Sec. 2. Taxing powers.
   The council shall have the power to levy and collect ad valorem and excise
taxes, including, but not limited to, a transaction privilege tax, a use tax,
and a business license tax, and all other taxes not prohibited by Federal or
State Constitution or laws, for any or all of the following purposes:
   (1)   To pay the interest and maintain the sinking fund of the bonded
indebtedness of the city;
   (2)   For the establishment and support of free public libraries and for the
construction and maintenance of public buildings;
   (3)   For advertising and promoting the advantages of the city;
   (4)   To create a reserve fund for replacement of equipment, for the
furnishing of city services and the maintenance of all municipally owned and
operated facilities;
   (5)   For the general expenses incurred in the operation of city government;
   (6)   For local public improvements; and
   (7)   For any other lawful municipal purpose.
   The enumeration herein of the types of taxes and the purposes for which such
taxes may be levied and collected shall not be deemed to limit in any way the
taxing powers of the city.
Sec. 3. Claims or demands against the city.
   The council shall prescribe by ordinance the manner in which claims or
demands against the city shall be presented, audited and paid.
Sec. 4. City moneys.
   The council may provide for the establishment of any and all funds
necessary, and allowable by the Governmental Accounting Standards Board or its
successors, to conduct the business of the city.
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
Sec. 5. Depositories for city moneys; investments.
   In addition to authority granted by Arizona statutes, the council may cause
city moneys to be deposited or invested in Certificates of Deposit or other
forms of deposits or investments, in any financial institution in the State,
upon sufficient security being given the city therefor by said financial
institution, approved by the council. The council may adopt ordinances
implementing this authority and the appropriate city official may, pursuant to
said ordinance, invest city moneys not needed to pay current bills as therein
directed.
Sec. 6. Independent audit and review.
   A.   At the beginning of each fiscal year, the council shall designate a
qualified certified public accountant who shall perform independent interim
audit work on accounts and transactions for the city. Such audit work shall be
performed not less than quarterly and reports shall be submitted to the council
and city manager. Such accountant shall have no personal interest, direct or
indirect, in the fiscal affairs of the city government or of any of its
officers. The accountant shall not maintain any accounts or records of the city
business, but, within specifications approved by the council, shall post-audit
the books and documents kept by the city, and any separate or subordinate
accounts kept by any other office, department, or agency of the city
government.
   B.   In addition thereto, and as deemed necessary, the council may designate
one or more auditors or consultants who shall review procedures and policies of
the city and make reports of such to the council and city manager.
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
ARTICLE VII. ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
Sec. 1. Council to act by motion, resolution or ordinance.
   The council shall act by motion, resolution or ordinance.
Sec. 2. Ayes and nays to be recorded.
   A roll call vote shall be taken upon final action of all ordinances and
resolutions and such vote shall be entered upon the journal of the proceedings
of the council.
Sec. 3. When majority vote required.
   A majority vote of all members of the council shall be necessary to pass any
ordinance or resolution having the effect of an ordinance.
Sec. 4. Enacting style.
   The enacting clause of all ordinances passed by the council shall be in
these words: “Be it ordained by the council of the City of Casa Grande as
follows:”
Sec. 5. When actions to be taken by ordinance.
   The following actions by the city council shall, unless specifically
authorized or directed by State law, be taken only by ordinance:
   (1)   Actions providing for any specific capital improvement having a cost
of more than fifty-thousand dollars.
   (2)   Actions providing for the appropriation or expenditure of any public
money in excess of the sum of fifty-thousand dollars unless the amount has been
appropriated in the current budget.
   (3)   Actions providing for the appropriation, acquisition, sale or lease of
public property.
   (4)   Actions providing for the levying of any tax or assessment.
   (5)   Actions providing for the establishment or changing of fire zones and
limits.
   (6)   Actions providing for the imposing of any penalty.
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
Sec. 6. Reading and passage of ordinances and resolutions.
   All proposed ordinances and resolutions having the effect of ordinances
shall be subject to the following requirements for passage at any meeting of
the council:
   (1)   Copies of a proposed ordinance and proposed resolution having the
effect of an ordinance shall be delivered to the mayor and council, or left at
their usual place of abode, at least ninety six hours prior to the meeting.
   (2)   By request of the mayor or any member of the council, a full reading
of the proposed ordinance or resolution having the effect of an ordinance shall
be ordered, otherwise such ordinance or resolution heretofore mentioned shall
be read by number and title only. The measure may be passed and adopted at any
time after such reading.
   (3)   Copies of titles of proposed ordinances or resolutions heretofore
mentioned shall be posted at the city hall ninety-six hours before the hour the
city council convenes to act upon the ordinance or resolution. During the said
ninety-six hour period, copies of the entire proposed ordinance or resolution
heretofore mentioned, shall be made available for the inspection by the public
at any time during the city's regular business hours. In the event that copies
are not so made available for inspection to the public and the said title is
not so posted, the ordinance or resolution shall not be brought before the
council for action.
   (4)   In the event that an amendment of substantive matter is proposed
during the action taken by the council upon any ordinance or resolution as
heretofore mentioned, such ordinance or resolution containing such proposed
amendment shall not be adopted without following the provision set forth in
subparagraph 3 of Section 6 of Article VII hereof. For the purpose of this
subsection, the term "amendment of substantive matter" means an amendment
which, either by addition, alteration, or deletion, alters the sense, meaning
or effect of the proposed ordinance, but shall not be deemed to include the
changing of capitalization for the purpose of uniformity, or the correction of
manifest clerical typographical errors.
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
Sec. 7. Emergency measures; effective date.
   An emergency measure is one which is necessary for the immediate
preservation of the peace, health or safety of the city and one which is passed
by the affirmative vote of 3/4ths of the members of the council and which
receives the approval of the mayor. An emergency measure shall take effect
immediately upon the passage, so long as it states in a separate section, the
reason why it is necessary that it should become immediately operative. An
emergency measure may be added to an ordinance upon its second reading and
final passage at the same meeting as when first introduced upon the affirmative
vote of 3/4ths of the council and upon its receiving the approval of the mayor.
Sec. 8. Motions to reconsider.
   When an ordinance, put upon final passage, fails to pass, and a motion is
made to reconsider, the vote on such motion shall not be taken within twenty-
four hours thereafter.
Sec. 9. Signing of ordinances and resolutions.
   All ordinances and resolutions shall be signed by the mayor and attested by
the city clerk within five days after adoption, but failure to so sign and
attest shall not affect the validity of such ordinance or resolution.
Sec. 10. Publication of ordinances and resolutions.
   All ordinances, except those necessary for the immediate preservation of the
peace, health or safety of the city, and resolutions having the effect of
ordinances, shall be published at least twice in the official newspaper of the
city before they become effective and operative. Emergency measures shall be
published twice in the official newspaper of the city within fifteen (15) days
after their passage.
Sec. 11. How ordinances to be revised, re-enacted and amended.
   Ordinances shall not be revised, re-enacted or amended by reference to title
only, but the ordinance to be re-enacted, or the sections thereof to be
amended, or the new section or sections to be added thereto, shall be set forth
and adopted in the method provided in this Charter for the adoption of
ordinances.
Sec. 12. How ordinances to be repealed or suspended.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be repealed or suspended except by
ordinance adopted in the manner provided in this Charter.
Sec. 13. Ordinances and resolutions to be filed, recorded and certified;
ordinances and resolutions as evidence.
   All ordinances and resolutions shall be filed and safely kept by the city
clerk and duly recorded and certified by the clerk in books kept for that
purpose marked "City Ordinances" and "City Resolutions" respectively; or by
such other methods prescribed from time to time by state law; and record copies
thereof certified by the city clerk, or the originals thereof shall be prima
facie evidence of the contents of such ordinances or resolutions and of the due
passage and publication of the same, and shall be admissible in evidence in any
court of this state, or in any proceeding where the contents of such ordinance
or resolution, or any of them, is in question; provided however, that nothing
herein contained shall be construed to prevent the proof of the passage and
publication of any ordinance or resolution in the manner otherwise prescribed
by law.
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
Sec. 14. Procedure for adoption by reference.
   A.   The council may enact the provisions of a code or public record
theretofore in existence without setting forth such provisions, but the
adopting ordinance shall be published in full. At least three copies of the
code or public record shall be filed in the office of the city clerk and kept
available for public use and inspection. A code or public record enacted by
reference may be amended in the same manner.
   B.   No penalty clause shall be enacted by reference thereto. A penalty
clause contained in a code or public record adopted by reference shall be set
forth in full in the adopting ordinance.
Sec. 15. Recording of certain ordinances.
   All ordinances extending or changing the boundaries of the city, zoning
territory or establishing or vacating of streets, alleys or subdivisions, after
publication, shall be recorded in the office of the county recorder of Pinal
County, and, after being so recorded, the same shall constitute public notice
to all parties of the legal import thereof.
Sec. 16. Codification of ordinances.
   Any and all ordinances of the city, which have been enacted and published in
the manner required at the time of their adoption, and which have not been
repealed, may be compiled, consolidated, revised, indexed and arranged as a
comprehensive ordinance code, and such code may be adopted by reference, with
the same effect as an ordinance by the passage of any ordinance for such
purpose. Such code need not be published in the manner required for other
ordinances, but not less than three copies thereof shall be filed for use and
examination by the public in the office of the city clerk prior to the adoption
thereof. Ordinances codified shall be repealed as of the effective date of the
code. Amendments to the code shall be enacted in the same manner as ordinances.
ARTICLE VIII. CONTRACTS
Sec. 1. Preparation.
   All contracts shall be drawn under the supervision of the city attorney,
must be in writing, executed in the name of the City of Casa Grande by the
mayor or city manager, except as it may be otherwise provided either by this
Charter or by law, and must be countersigned by the city clerk, who shall
number and register the same in a book for that purpose.
Sec. 2. Contracts for city improvements, services and purchases.
   A.   Any equipment, material or supplies to be purchased or services to be
obtained for or on behalf of the city or any contract to be awarded for any
city improvement shall be awarded under such rules, regulations and ordinances
as the city council may adopt.
   B.   The council, at its discretion, may by ordinance grant a monetary
preference to local bidders providing such preference when ordained is stated
in the bid offer.
   C.   The council, at its discretion, may reject any and all bids.
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
Sec. 3. Transfer and sale of property.
   The city manager may dispose of surplus or obsolete supplies, materials and
equipment, subject to such regulations as the council may prescribe.
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
Sec. 4. Contracts for official advertising.
   A.   The city manager shall let annually contracts for official advertising
for the ensuing fiscal year. For this purpose, he or she shall submit to each
legal newspaper published in the city, a notice describing the contemplated
advertising and asking for sealed proposals. The proposals shall specify the
type and spacing to be used at the rate or rates named in the bid. The city
manager shall let the contracts for such official advertising to the lowest and
best bidder publishing a newspaper of general circulation in the city; provided
that such bid shall not exceed the newspapers published open rates; provided
further, that in his or her discretion, the city manager may reject any and all
bids and proceed to secure new bids in the manner provided herein.
   B.   The newspaper to which the award for such advertising is made shall be
known and designated as the official newspaper.
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
Sec. 5. Fraud and collusion.
   Any member of the council or any officer or employee of the city who shall
aid or assist a bidder in securing a contract to furnish labor, materials,
equipment, supplies or services at a higher price than that proposed by any
other bidder, or who shall favor one bidder over another by giving or
withholding information, or who shall willfully mislead any bidder in regard to
the character of the labor, material, equipment, supplies or services called
for or the conditions under which the proposed work is to be done, or who shall
knowingly accept materials, supplies or equipment of a quality inferior to
those called for by any contract, or who shall knowingly certify to a greater
amount of labor or service performed than has been actually performed or to
receipt of a greater amount of different kind of material, supplies or
equipment than has been actually received, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be removed from office.
Sec. 6. Avoidance of contracts made through fraud and collusion.
   If at any time it shall be found that the person to whom a contract has been
awarded has, in presenting any bid or bids, colluded with any other party or
parties for the purpose of preventing any other bid being made, then the
contract so awarded shall be null and void, and the city manager shall
advertise for new bids for said city improvements and/or supplies, materials,
equipment and services required, or the council may provide for such public
work to be done by the city under the direction of the city manager.
Sec. 7. Personal interest.
   A.   Any member of the council, or any officer or employee of the city who
has, or whose relative has, a substantial interest, as defined pursuant to
state law, in any contract, sale, purchase or service to the city or a
contractor supplying the city, shall make known that interest in the official
records of the city and shall refrain from voting upon or otherwise
participating in any manner as a member of the council, officer or employee in
such contract, sale or purchase.
   B.   Any member of the council, or any officer, or employee of the city who
has, or whose relative has, a substantial interest in any decision of the
council, or any board or commission of the city of which he or she is a member
or to which he or she makes recommendations, shall make known such interest in
the official records of such council, board or commissions and shall refrain
from participating in any manner as a member of the council or an officer or
employee in such decision.
   C.   No member of the council or any officer or employee of the city shall
sell or supply to the city any equipment, material, supplies or services,
unless pursuant to an award or contract let after public competitive bidding,
except as permitted under state law.
   D.   The terms "relative" and "substantial interest" shall mean as provided
pursuant to Arizona Revised Statutes Title 38, Chapter 3, Article 8, as amended
from time to time .
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
ARTICLE IX. ELECTIONS.
Sec. 1. Permitted types of elections.
   Elections to be held in the city shall be either primary, general or
special.
   A.   Primary elections shall be held for the purposes of making nominations
for the general elections and electing officers as hereinafter provided, and
for such other purposes as the council may prescribe.
   B.   General elections shall be held for the purpose of electing officers of
the city and such other purposes as the council may prescribe.
   C.   The council may, by resolution or ordinance, order special or advisory
elections, and shall provide the time and manner and means of holding any such
election.
Sec. 2. Application of state law.
   The provisions of the laws of this state relating to and governing the
nomination of elective officers and the conduct of elections, and each and
every provision of said law, with all amendments thereto shall apply and shall
govern the nomination of elective officers and the conduct of elections, except
as otherwise provided in this charter. The council shall have the power to make
any further and additional provisions relating to the nomination of officers
and to the conduct of elections not repugnant nor contrary to the provisions of
the laws of this state or the provisions of this charter.
Sec. 3. Qualifications of electors; registration.
   A.   The qualifications of electors shall be as required by the Constitution
and laws of this state for state and county electors.
   B.   Registration of voters shall be as required by the laws of this state
and the register of qualified electors shall be compiled from the general
county register.
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
Sec. 4. Arrangement of names not to reveal source of candidacy or support of
candidates.
   The names of the candidates for each office shall be arranged as provided by
law and nothing on the ballot shall be indicative of the source of the
candidacy or of the support of any candidate.
Sec. 5. Time of holding primary elections.
   Primary elections shall be held at the first available calendar election
date as provided by state law. Provided, however, that if state law no longer
regulates or requires consolidated election dates, the primary election shall
be held on the fifth Tuesday preceding the holding of the General election.
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
Sec. 6. Majority to elect in primary.
   At the primary election, any candidate who shall receive a majority of all
the votes cast at such election shall be declared elected to the office for
which he or she is a candidate, and no further election shall be held as to
said candidate.
Sec. 7. Nomination for general election.
   If at any primary election there be any office or offices to which no
candidate therefor was elected, then, said election shall be considered to be a
primary election for the nomination of candidates for such office or offices,
and a second or general election shall be held to vote for candidates to fill
such office or offices. The candidates, not elected at such first election,
equal in number to twice the number to be elected to any given office, or less
if so there be, and who received the highest number of votes for the respective
offices at such first election, shall be the only candidates at such second
election; provided, that if there be any person who under the provisions of
this section, would have been entitled to become a candidate for any office
except for the fact that some other candidate received an equal number of votes
therefor, then all such persons receiving said number of votes shall likewise
become candidates for such office.
Sec. 8. Candidates receiving most votes to be elected.
   The candidates equal in number to the persons to be elected who shall
receive the highest number of votes at said General election, shall be declared
elected to such office.
Sec. 9. Special elections.
   The council shall provide the time, manner and means of holding any special
election. All special elections shall be conducted in the same manner and under
the same provisions as are provided for holding of general elections.
ARTICLE X. INITIATIVE, REFERENDUM AND RECALL
Sec. 1. Initiative, referendum; recall.
   There is hereby reserved to the electors of the city the powers of the
initiative and referendum and of the recall of the elective officers. The
provisions of the Constitution and general laws of this State, as the same now
exist or hereafter may be amended, governing the initiative and referendum and
the recall of elective officers, shall apply to the use thereof in the city so
far as such provisions are not in conflict with the provisions of this Charter.
Sec. 2. Submission of measures to electors.
   The mayor and council may, of their own motion, submit to the electors at
any election, any ordinance, referendum or measure that the mayor and council,
or the qualified electors of the city shall have authority to enact or submit
to referendum, in the same manner as is provided in this Charter for ordinances
or measures submitted on petitions. At any special election called under the
provisions of the Charter, there shall be no bar to the submission by the
council of other questions to a vote of the electors in addition to the
ordinances or measures herein provided.
ARTICLE XI. CITY COURT
Sec. 1. Establishment.
   There shall be and is hereby established in the city a municipal court, to
be known and designated “The City Court of the City of Casa Grande, Pinal
County, State of Arizona.”
Sec. 2. When open; transaction of certain business on non-judicial days.
   The city court shall always be open, except on non-judicial days, and on
such non-judicial days, it may transact such business within its jurisdiction
as is authorized by law to be transacted by courts of limited jurisdiction,
relative to businesses within their jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
Sec. 3. Jurisdiction generally.
   Said court shall, within the territorial limits of said city, have and
exercise jurisdiction as follows:
   (1)   It shall have and exercise exclusive original jurisdiction of all
proceedings of a criminal nature for the violation of any ordinance of said
city, and of every action of a civil nature for the enforcement of a penalty,
or the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by any ordinance of the city
for violation thereof, or for neglect to perform any duty by ordinance imposed,
and of every action for the collection of any license, fine or penalty due from
any person to said city, and required to be paid, or which is due and
collectible under the ordinance of said city.
   (2)   The city court shall have concurrent jurisdiction with the justices of
the peace, in the precincts where said city is established, over all violations
of the laws of the state committed within the limits of said city; said
concurrent jurisdiction shall be subject to the rules of civil procedure
applicable to trials before justices of the peace.
Sec. 4. Presiding officer; appointment; term.
   The presiding officer of the city court shall be a city judge, who shall be
appointed by the council for a term coterminus of that of the mayor, unless
sooner removed for misfeasance, malfeasance or nonfeasance of office.
Sec. 5. Judicial selection.
   A.   The council shall, by ordinance, establish a Judicial Selection
Committee. Such committee shall be appointed by the mayor with the approval of
the council. The committee shall be composed of five persons who are residents
of the city. Within thirty days following the expiration of each two year term
of the city judge, or following the time that a vacancy exists in such office,
the judicial selection committee shall recommend to the council at least two
persons to fill such vacancy.
   B.   The presiding officer of the city court shall be appointed by the
council from the list of those persons recommended by the judicial selection
committee.
   C.   Each judicial selection committee, established under the terms of this
section, shall exist for the sole purpose of recommending to the city council
persons to fill vacancies in the office of city judge, and immediately upon the
filling of the vacancy by the city council, each judicial selection committee
shall forthwith cease to exist.
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
Sec. 6. Disposition of fines; penalties and fees.
   All fines, penalties and fees collected by the city judge shall be paid to
the properly designated officer of the city authorized to receive them.
Sec. 7. Power of the city judge to issue writs and processes and to hear cases;
nature of writs and processes; records to be kept; duty of police to execute,
serve and make proper return of writs and processes.
   For the proper carrying out of the jurisdiction, vested in said city judge,
he or she shall be entitled and authorized to issue and cause to be served, any
and all writs and processes, and shall have full authority to hear and
determine all matters properly coming before and coming within the jurisdiction
of the city judge herein specified. The writs and processes to be used shall be
similar to those used by justices of the peace in cases of similar nature, and
proper record shall be kept of the issuance of writs and processes and returns,
and of any kind and all other actions taken relative thereto, and the actions
of the court thereon. The police of the city are hereby authorized and directed
to execute and serve any and all writs and processes issued out of said city
court by said judge, and proper return shall be made by such officer to the
same extent as is required of constables and sheriffs in the service and
execution of similar papers.
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
Sec. 8. Ordinances to give effect.
   The council shall pass all necessary ordinances to give effect to the
provisions of this article, not otherwise herein provided.
ARTICLE XII. FRANCHISE AND PUBLIC UTILITIES
Sec. 1. Elections for approval of franchise.
   No franchise shall be granted, extended or renewed by the city without the
approval of a majority of the qualified electors residing within its corporate
limits voting thereon at a primary, general or special election; the council
shall submit any matter for approval or disapproval to such electors at any
primary or general election or call a special election for such purpose at any
time upon thirty days notice; and the council shall require, before calling any
such election, that the estimated expense thereof (to be determined by the
council) shall be first deposited by the applicant for such franchise with the
city clerk. No franchise shall be granted, extended or renewed for a longer
time than twenty-five years and no exclusive franchise shall ever be granted.
Sec. 2. Establishment of municipally owned and operated utilities.
   The city shall have the power to own and operate any public utility to
construct and install all facilities that are reasonably needed and to lease or
purchase any existing utility properties used or useful to public service. The
city may also furnish service to adjacent and nearby territories which may be
conveniently and economically served by the municipally owned and operated
utility, subject to the limitations of the provisions of the general laws of
this state. The council may provide by ordinance for the establishment of such
utility and provide for its regulation and control and the fixing of rates to
be charged. The council may by ordinance provide for the extension, enlargement
or improvement of existing utilities, and provide reasonable reserves for such
purpose.
ARTICLE XIII. PUBLICITY OF RECORDS
Sec. 1. Publicity of records.
   All records and accounts of every office, department or agency of the city,
shall be open for inspection by any citizen, any representative of a citizens
organization, or any representative of the press at all reasonable times and
under such reasonable regulations established by the city council, except
records and documents the disclosure of which would tend to defeat the lawful
purpose which they are intended to accomplish, including, but not limited to
lists of names and addresses of the citizens of the city, and except those
records and documents which have been decreed as being exempt from such
disclosure by state or federal laws or by a court of competent jurisdiction of
the State of Arizona or the United States of America.
ARTICLE XIV. GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sec. 1. Official bonds.
   The city council shall obtain and deliver to the city clerk a blanket bond,
conditioned on the faithful performance payable to the City of Casa Grande,
Arizona, in the principal amount of not less than $100,000.00 for all officers
and employees of the city, except the city treasurer. All city officers and
employees are bonded pursuant to this section unless otherwise provided by
ordinance. The city treasurer shall execute an official bond in the amount of
$100,000.00 or such greater sum as the city council may fix. The city attorney
shall determine the sum and sufficiency of the blanket bond. The premiums on
such bonds shall be paid by the city.
Sec. 2. Oath of office.
   Every officer of the city, whether elected or appointed under the provisions
of this Charter, or under any ordinance of the city, shall, before entering
upon the duties of the office, take and subscribe an oath of office, in the
form of the official oath required by the Constitution.
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
Sec. 3. Liability insurance.
   The council shall procure liability coverage for the city and its officers,
agents, employees, and members of boards and commissions while engaged in
governmental or proprietary capacities. The premiums on such insurance shall be
paid by the city.
(Ord. 2482, § 1 (part), 2007)
Sec. 4. Short title.
   This Charter, adopted by the people of the City of Casa Grande, shall be
known and may be cited as the CHARTER OF THE CITY OF CASA GRANDE, ARIZONA.
Sec. 5. Separability clause.
   If any provision of this Charter is held invalid, the other provisions of
the Charter shall not be affected thereby. If the application of the Charter or
any of its provisions to any persons or circumstances is held invalid, the
application of the Charter and its provisions to other persons or circumstances
shall not be affected thereby.
Sec. 6. Violations of Charter and city ordinances; imprisonment of violators.
   The violation of any provisions of this Charter, or any ordinance of the
city, shall be deemed a misdemeanor, and may be prosecuted by the authorities
of the city in the name of the State of Arizona, or may be redressed by civil
action, at the option of the council. Any person sentenced to imprisonment for
a violation of a provision of this Charter, or of any ordinance may be
imprisoned in the city jail, or, if the council, by ordinance, shall so
prescribe, in the county jail of Pinal County.
Sec. 7. Plenary and implied powers of the council.
   The council shall have plenary power to enact and make all proper and
necessary ordinances, resolutions and orders to carry out and give effect to
the express, as well as the implied powers granted in this Charter to end that
a complete, harmonious and effective municipal government may be initiated,
installed, operated and maintained in the city, and thereby protect and
safeguard the rights, interests, safety, morality, health and welfare of the
city and its inhabitants.
ARTICLE XV. GENDER
Sec. 1. Gender.
   Wherever the context of this instrument so requires words used in the
masculine gender include the feminine and neuter; the singular number includes
the plural, and the plural the singular; the word person includes a
corporation, company, partnership, association, or society as well as a natural
person.
ARTICLE XVI. SUCCESSION IN GOVERNMENT
Sec. 1. Rights of officers and employees preserved.
   Nothing in this Charter contained, except as specifically provided, shall
affect or impair the rights or privileges of officers or employees of the city
or of any office, department or agency existing at the time when this Charter
shall take effect or any provision of the law in force at the time when this
Charter shall take effect and not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Charter, in relation to the personnel, appointment, rank, grades, tenure of
office, promotion, removal, pension and retirement rights, civil rights or any
other rights or privileges of officers or employees of the city or any office,
department or agency.
Sec. 2. Continuance of present officers.
   All persons holding administrative office at the time this Charter takes
effect shall continue in office and in the performance of their duties until
provisions shall have been made in accordance therewith for the performance of
such duties or the discontinuance of such office.
Sec. 3. Continuance of present offices, departments or agencies.
   A.   Any office, department or agency provided for in this Charter to be
named or with powers and duties the same or substantially the same as those
heretofore existing, shall be deemed a continuation of such office, department
or agency and shall have powers to continue any business proceedings or other
matters within the scope of powers and duties prescribed by this Charter. Any
office, department or agency, not provided for in this Charter, heretofore
existing, shall continue to exercise powers and duties as the same were
heretofore exercised and shall have the power to continue any business
proceedings or other matters within the scope of its regular powers and duties
until such office, department or agency shall be changed or abolished by the
council as heretofore provided in this charter.
   B.   The powers conferred and the duties imposed upon any office, department
or agency of the city by the laws of this state shall, if such office,
department or agency be abolished by this Charter or under its authority, be
thereafter exercised and discharged by the office, department or agency
designated by the council, unless otherwise provided herein.
Sec. 4. Continuance of appointive boards and commissions.
   All appointive boards and commissions, heretofore existing, shall continue
and shall exercise such powers and duties as was granted them until such boards
and commissions shall be changed or abolished by the council as heretofore
provided in this Charter.
Sec. 5. Transfer of records and property.
   All records, property and equipment whatsoever of any office, department or
agency or part thereof, all the powers and duties of which are assigned to any
other office, department or agency by this Charter, or under its authority,
shall be transferred and delivered to the office, department or agency to which
such powers and duties are so assigned.
Sec. 6. Continuance of contracts.
   All contracts entered into by the city, or for its benefit, prior to the
taking effect of this Charter, shall continue in full force and effect.
Sec. 7. Pending actions and proceedings.
   The adoption of this Charter shall not abate or otherwise affect any action
or proceeding, civil or criminal, pending when it takes full effect, brought by
or against the city or any office, department, agency or officer thereof.
Sec. 8. Ordinance to remain in force.
   All ordinances, resolutions and regulations of the city, in force at the
time this Charter takes effect, and not inconsistent with the provisions
hereof, are hereby continued in force until the same shall be duly amended or
repealed.
Sec. 9. Inauguration of government under this Charter.
   If a majority of the qualified electors of the city, voting on the question,
vote to ratify this Charter, the provisions of this Charter shall go into
effect for all purposes upon the approval of the Governor as provided by the
Constitution of this state.
ARTICLE XVII. AMENDMENTS
Sec. 1. Method of amendment.
   This Charter, or any part or article or section thereof, may be amended in
the manner provided by the Constitution of this state.
Title 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapters:
1.01   Code Adoption
1.04   General Provisions
1.08   General Penalty
Chapter 1.01
CODE ADOPTION
Sections:
1.01.010   Authorization for adoption.
1.01.020   Title—Citation—Reference.
1.01.030   Repeal.
1.01.040   Reference applies to all amendments.
1.01.050   Title, chapter and section headings.
1.01.060   Reference to specific ordinances.
1.01.070   Effect of code on past actions and obligations.
1.01.080   Effective date.
1.01.090   Constitutionality.
1.01.100   Ordinances passed prior to adoption of code.
1.01.010 Authorization for adoption.
   The mayor and council authorize the adoption of the “Casa Grande Municipal
Code” as compiled, edited and published by Book Publishing Company, Seattle,
Washington.
(Ord. 1397 § 1, 1991)
1.01.020 Title—Citation—Reference.
   This code shall be known as the “City of Casa Grande Municipal Code” and it
shall be sufficient to refer to said code as the “City of Casa Grande Municipal
Code” in any prosecution for the violation of any provision thereof or in any
proceeding at law or equity. It shall be sufficient to designate any ordinance
adding to, amending, correcting or repealing all or any part or portion thereof
as an addition to, amend-ment to, correction or repeal of the “City of Casa
Grande Municipal Code.” Further reference may be had to the titles, chapters,
sections and subsections of the “City of Casa Grande Municipal Code,” and such
references shall apply to that numbered title, chapter, section or subsection
as it appears in the code.
(Ord. 1397 § 2, 1991)
1.01.030 Repeal.
   All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with the provisions of
this ordinance or any part of the code adopted herein by reference are
repealed.
(Ord. 1397 § 3, 1991)
1.01.040 Reference applies to all amendments.
   Whenever a reference is made to this code as the “City of Casa Grande
Municipal Code” or to any portion thereof, or to any ordinance of the city, the
reference shall apply to all amendments, corrections and additions heretofore,
now or hereafter made.
(Ord. 1397 § 4, 1991)
1.01.050 Title, chapter and section headings.
   Title, chapter and section headings contained herein shall not be deemed to
govern, limit, modify or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of
the provisions of any title, chapter or section hereof.
(Ord. 1397 § 5, 1991)
1.01.060 Reference to specific ordinances.
   The provisions of this code shall not in any manner affect matters of record
which refer to, or are otherwise connected with ordinances which are therein
specifically designated by number or otherwise and which are included within
the code, but such reference shall be construed to apply to the corresponding
provisions contained within this code.
(Ord. 1397 § 6, 1991)
1.01.070 Effect of code on past actions and obligations.
   Neither the adoption of this code nor the repeal or amendments of any
ordinance or part or portion of any ordinance of the city shall in any manner
affect the prosecution for violations of ordinances, which violations were
committed prior to the effective date hereof, nor be construed as a waiver of
any license, fee, or penalty at said effective date due and unpaid under such
ordinances relating to the collection of any such license fee, or penalty, or
the penal provisions applicable to any violation thereof, not to affect the
validity of any bond or cash deposit in lieu thereof required to be posted,
filed or deposited pursuant to any ordinance and all rights and obligations
thereunder appertaining shall continue in full force and effect.
(Ord. 1397 § 7, 1991)
1.01.080 Effective date.
   This code shall become effective on the date the ordinance adopting this
code as the “City of Casa Grande Municipal Code” becomes effective.
(Ord. 1397 § 8, 1991)
1.01.090 Constitutionality.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this code is for
any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this code. The council
declares that it would have passed this code, and each section, subsection,
sentence, clause and phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases had been declared
invalid or unconstitutional, and if for any reason this code should be declared
invalid or unconstitutional, then the original ordinance or ordinances shall be
in full force and effect.
(Ord. 1397 § 9, 1991)
1.01.100 Ordinances passed prior to adoption of the code.
   The last ordinance included in this code was Ordinance 1368, passed and
adopted November 5, 1990. The following ordinances, passed and adopted
subsequent to Ordinance 1368, but prior to the adoption of this code, are
adopted and made a part of this code: Ordinances 936.14, 1178.35, 1178.37,
536.5, 1179.2, 1179.3, 1179.4, 1178.39, 1179.5, 583.2, 1178.40, 1086.3, 854.4,
536.6, and 936.17.
(Ord. 1397 § 10, 1991)
Chapter 1.04
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sections:
1.04.010   Code cite.
1.04.020   City seal.
1.04.030   Construction of ordinances.
1.04.040   Rules of construction.
1.04.050   Acts by agents.
1.04.060   Definitions.
1.04.070   Authority.
1.04.080   Reasonable time for compliance.
1.04.090   Time computation.
1.04.100   Additional rules of construction.
1.04.110   References.
1.04.120   Conflicting provisions—Different chapters.
1.04.130   Conflicting provisions—Same chapter.
1.04.140   Section headings.
1.04.150   Effect of repeal.
1.04.160   Severability.
1.04.170   City Consolidated Fee Schedule.
1.04.010 Code cite.
   The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall
constitute and be designated “The Code of the City of Casa Grande, Arizona,”
and may also be cited as the “Casa Grande City Code.”
(Prior code Art. 1-1)
1.04.020 City seal.
   The city seal of Casa Grande, Arizona shall appear as follows:
 
 
(Added during 1991 codification)
1.04.030 Construction of ordinances.
   The rules and the definitions set forth in this chapter shall be observed in
the construction of this code and the ordinances of the city unless such
construction would be inconsistent with either the manifest intent of the
council or the context of this code or the ordinances of the city.
(Prior code Art. 1-2)
1.04.040 Rules of construction.
   A.   All words and phrases shall be construed and understood according to
the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases
and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the
law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar and
appropriate meaning.
   B.   Words of the masculine gender include the feminine; and words in the
singu-lar number include the plural and words in the plural number include the
singular.
   C.   The present tense includes the past and future tenses, and the future
includes the present.
(Prior code §§ 1-3-1, 1-3-9, 1-3-25)
1.04.050 Acts by agents.
   When an ordinance requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
(Prior code § 1-3-2)
1.04.060 Definitions.
   “City” means the city of Casa Grande, Arizona.
   “City Consolidated Fee Schedule” shall mean that public record adopted by
council by resolution, as amended from time to time, as codified in Subsection
1.04.170.A. of this code.
   “Civil hearing officer” means any person qualified and appointed to hear
civil traffic violation cases and/or any civil violation cases.
   "Civil traffic laws" are those laws adopted by ordinance or regulation
relating to movement and control of traffic, including the parking, standing or
stopping of a vehicle, which provides for imposition of civil sanctions upon
violation of such ordinance or regulation.
   "Civil traffic violation" means any violation designated as such under the
provisions of Section 28-181(B), Arizona Revised Statutes, or any violation of
civil traffic laws under the city code.
   "Civil violation" means any violation designated as such under Arizona
Revised Statutes, or any violation of the city code expressly designated as
such.
   “The code” or “this code” means “The Code of the City of Casa Grande,
Arizona,” unless the context indicates otherwise.
   “Council” means the council of the city of Casa Grande, Arizona.
   “Day” means the period of time between any midnight and the midnight
following.
   “Daytime” means the period of time between sunrise and sunset. “Nighttime”
means the period of time between sunset and sunrise.
   Whenever any department, board, commission, office, officer, or employee is
referred to, it shall mean a department, board, commission, office, officer, or
employee of the city, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
   "Gross vehicle weight rating" means the weight that is assigned by the
vehicle manufacturer to a vehicle and that represents the maximum recommended
total weight including the vehicle and the load for the vehicle.
   “In the city” or “within the city” means and includes all territory over
which the city now has, or hereafter acquires, jurisdiction for the exercise of
its police powers or other regulatory powers.
   “Month” means a calendar month.
   “Oath” means and includes affirmation or declaration.
   “Or” may be read “and,” and “and” may be read “or,” if the sense requires
it.
   “Person” means and includes firms, corporations, or voluntary associations,
as well as individuals, unless plainly inapplicable.
   “Personal property” means and includes every species of property, except
real property as defined in this section.
   “Preceding” and “following” mean the next before and the next after,
respectively.
   “Property” means and includes real and personal property.
   “Real property” means and includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   “Shall” is mandatory and “may” is permissive.
   “Shall have been” includes past and future cases.
   “Signature” or “subscription” means and includes a mark when the signer
cannot write, such signer's or subscriber's name being written near the mark by
a witness who writes his own name near the signer's or subscriber's name; but a
signature or subscription by mark can be acknowledged or can serve as a
signature of subscription to a sworn statement only when two witnesses so sign
their own names thereto.
   “The state” means the state of Arizona.
   “Tenant” or “occupant,” applied to a building or land, means and includes
any person holding a written or an oral lease of or who occupies the whole or
part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
   "Vehicle" means every device in, upon or by which any person or property is
or may be transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   “Week” means seven consecutive days.
   “Writing” means and includes any form of recorded message capable of
comprehension by ordinary visual means. Whenever any notice, report, statement
or record is required or authorized by this code, it shall be made in writing
in the English language unless it is expressly provided otherwise.
   “Year” means a calendar year, except where otherwise provided.
(Ord. 1397.01.09 § 1, 2007; Ord. 1397.01.07 § 1, 2005; Ord. 1397.01.06 § 1,
2004; Ord. 1397.01.04 § 1, 2000; Ord. 1397.01.03 § 3, 1998: prior code Art. 1-
3, §§ 1-3-3 — 1-3-8, 1-3-10, 1-3-12 — 1-3-24, 1-3-28 — 1-3-30)
1.04.070 Authority.
   All words purporting to give joint authority to three or more city officers
or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of
such officers or other persons unless it shall be otherwise expressly declared
in the law giving the authority.
(Prior code § 1-3-11)
1.04.080 Reasonable time for compliance.
   In all cases where any section of this code shall require any act to be done
in a reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean such time only as may be necessary for the
prompt performance of such duty, or compliance with such notice.
(Prior code § 1-3-26)
1.04.090 Time computation.
   The time within which an act is to be done as provided in this code or in
any order issued pursuant to any ordinance, when expressed in days, shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, except that if the
last day is a Sunday or holiday, it shall be excluded, and when such time is
expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday or a holiday, from midnight to
midnight, shall be excluded.
(Prior code § 1-3-27)
1.04.100 Additional rules of construction.
   In addition to the rules of construction specified in the previous section,
the rules set forth in Sections
1.08.100,
1.08.110 and
1.08.120 of this code shall be observed in the construction of this code.
(Prior code § 1-4-1)
1.04.110 References.
   All references to chapters, articles, or sections are to the chapters,
articles, and sections of this code unless otherwise specified.
(Prior code § 1-4-2)
1.04.120 Conflicting provisions—Different chapters.
   If the provisions of different chapters of this code conflict with or
contravene each other, the provisions of each chapter shall prevail as to all
matters and questions growing out of the subject matter of such chapter.
(Prior code § 1-4-3)
1.04.130 Conflicting provisions—Same chapter.
   If conflicting provisions are found in different sections of the same
chapter, the provisions of the section which is last in numerical order shall
prevail unless such construction is inconsistent with the meaning of such
chapter.
(Prior code § 1-4-4)
1.04.140 Section headings.
   Headings of the sections of this code are intended as a convenience to
indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be
titles of such section, nor as any part of this section, nor unless expressly
so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such section, including the
headings, is amended or reenacted.
(Prior code Art. 1-5)
1.04.150 Effect of repeal.
   A.   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision,
shall be itself repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to revive such
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it shall be expressly so
provided.
   B.   The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty
incurred before the repeal took effect nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding
pending at the time of the repeal, for any offense committed under the
ordinance repealed.
(Prior code Art. 1-6)
1.04.160 Severability.
   It is declared to be the intention of the council that the sections,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code shall be severable, and
if any provision of this code is held unconstitutional for any reason by a
court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any
of the remaining provisions of this code.
(Prior code Art. 1-7)
1.04.170 City Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   A.   Council shall, by resolution, adopt a public record known as the “City
Consolidated Fee Schedule,” which shall set out the fees charged to users for
certain services provided by the City, the provisions of which are hereby
incorporated by reference. From time to time, council may amend the City
Consolidated Fee Schedule by resolution. At all times, there shall be three
copies of the most updated Consolidated Fee Schedule on file with the City in
locations to be determined by the city clerk.
   B.   Except as otherwise set forth in this section or expressly set forth
elsewhere in this code, City shall charge users of City services the user fees
as established in the City Consolidated Fee Schedule adopted by reference
herein.
   C.   City shall charge users of the services provided by the City for
issuance of permits for sewer construction and final acceptance of subdivision
sewer collection systems within the City of Casa Grande, pursuant to its
intergovernmental agreement with the Arizona Department of Environmental
Quality. Other user fees for sewer services shall be as established in the City
Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   D.   City shall charge users of the services provided by the City for fees
relating to the issuance of building permits in accordance with the City's
Building Code, as may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 1397.01.09 § 2, 2007; Ord. 1397.01.08 §§ 2, 4, 2006; Ord. 1397.01.07 § 2,
2005; Ord. 1397.01.06 2, 2004; Ord. 1397.13.15 § 1 (part), 2003; Ord.
1397.01.05 § 1 (part), 2002; Ord. 1397.01.2, 1995; Ord. 1397.01.1 § 1, 1992)
Chapter 1.08
GENERAL PENALTY
Sections:
1.08.010   Penalty.
1.08.010 Penalty.
   A.   Whenever in this code or in any ordinance of the city any act is
prohibited or is made or is declared to be unlawful or an offense or a
misdemeanor or whenever in such code or ordinance the doing of any act is
required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, and no
specific penalty is provided therefor, any person violating any such provisions
of this code or any ordinance is guilty of a Class II misdemeanor punishable by
a fine not exceeding seven hundred fifty dollars or imprisonment for a term not
exceeding four months or both such fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of
the city judge. Each day any violation of any provisions of this code or of any
ordinance continues shall constitute a separate offense unless otherwise
designated in such code or ordinance.
   B.   In addition to the penalties hereinabove provided, any condition caused
or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this code or any
ordinance shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be, by the city, abated as
provided by law, and each day that such condition continues shall be regarded
as a new and separate offense.
(Ord. 1368 §§ 1 (part), 2 (part), 1990: prior code Art. 1-8)
Title 2
ADMINISTRATION AND PERSONNEL
Chapters:
2.04   City Council
2.08   City Clerk
2.12   City Attorney
2.14   Director of Finance
2.16   Police Department
2.20   Fire Department
2.24   City Court
2.28   Airport Advisory Board
2.30   Community Services Advisory Board
2.32   Civil Defense
2.36   Boards, Committees and Commissions Generally
2.40   Personnel System
Chapter 2.04
CITY COUNCIL
Sections:
2.04.010   Meetings.
2.04.020   Agenda.
2.04.030   Reserved.
2.04.035   Meetings—Order of business.
2.04.040   Suspension of rules when.
2.04.010 Meetings.
   The council shall hold regular meetings on the first and the third Monday of
each month at seven p.m.; provided, that when the day fixed for any regular
meeting of the council falls upon a day designated by law as a legal holiday,
such meeting shall be held at the same hour on the next succeeding day not a
holiday. All regular meetings of the council shall be held in the city hall of
Casa Grande.
(Prior code § 2-4-1)
2.04.020 Agenda.
   Prior to each council meeting, or on or before a time fixed by the council
for preparation and distribution of an agenda, whichever is earlier, the clerk
shall collect all written reports, communications, ordinances, resolutions,
contracts, and other documents to be submitted to the council, and prepare an
agenda according to the order of business and shall furnish each councilmember,
the mayor, and the attorney with a copy.
(Prior code § 2-4-5)
2.04.030 Reserved.
2.04.035 Meetings—Order of business.
   The business of the council shall be taken up for consideration and
disposition in the following order:
   A.   Call to Order.
   1.   The mayor or, in the mayor's absence, the mayor pro-tem presides over
all meetings of the city council and, after determining that a quorum is
present, calls the meeting to order.
   2.   In the absence of the mayor and mayor pro-tem, the city clerk shall
call the council to order, whereupon a temporary mayor pro-tem shall be elected
by the members of the council present.
   3.   Following the call to order, those in attendance may be asked to join
the council in reciting the pledge of allegiance.
   B.   Roll Call. The mayor or city clerk, or designee, takes roll and
announces the presence or absence of individual council members.
   C.   Minutes of the Preceding Council, Board, Commission and Committee
Meeting(s).
   1.   The clerk or his deputy shall read or present the minutes of the
preceding council meeting, which shall be approved if correct. Any errors noted
shall be corrected prior to approval.
   2.   The clerk or his deputy shall read or present the minutes of any board,
commission and committee meetings.
   D.   Claims.
   1.   Upon approval from the appropriate department head, the finance
director shall pay all claims against the city that do not exceed $2,000.
   2.   All claims in excess of $2,000 shall be approved by the city council
prior to payment, with the exception of the following items, which shall be
paid when due by the finance director, upon approval of the city manager:
payroll and payroll-related checks, council-approved contracts, utilities, and
claims upon escrow accounts containing federal funds for housing
rehabilitation.
   3.   The finance director is also authorized, upon approval of the city
manager, to make such fund transfers as may be necessary from time to time, and
to invest such surplus funds as may be available from time to time.
   4.   A list of all claims that have been paid and all transfers and
investments that have been made pursuant to this chapter shall be prepared and
distributed as ordered in Section
2.04.020 of this chapter. This list shall include the name of the claimant, the
date and the amount of each payment.
   E.   Meeting Agenda Approval.
   1.   This is the time when council members or the city manager may withdraw
or move items on the agenda.
   2.   A simple majority of those present may vote to consider items in a
different order.
   3.   During this portion of the agenda, council members will share current
activities on regional, state and federal committees, boards or commissions on
which they serve.
   F.   Special Presentations.
   1.   Petitions, remonstrances, communications and comments or suggestions
from citizens present, shall be heard by the council.
   (a)   All such remarks shall be addressed to the council as a whole, and not
to any member thereof.
   (b)   Such remarks shall be limited to ten minutes, unless additional time
is granted by the council.
   (c)   No person other than the individual speaking shall enter into the
discussion without the permission of the presiding officer.
   (d)   No question shall be asked a councilman except through the presiding
officer.
   2.   Council may also take the opportunity to acknowledge outstanding
achievements or present awards to employees, groups or other individuals.
   G.   Consent Agenda.
   1.   Any agenda item which appears under Reports by Officer, Unfinished
Business, or New Business shall be marked by an asterisk when the item appears
to be routine and noncontroversial.
   (a)   Examples of such agenda items are: final adoptions of ordinances and
resolutions, bid calls for budgeted purchases and some bid awards, license
approvals, leases, agreements and similar items.
   (b)   Agenda items marked with an asterisk become a part of the consent
agenda and shall be acted upon by a roll call vote of the council.
   (c)   The results of this vote shall apply to all items on the consent
agenda.
   2.   If any council member or member of the public requests that an item be
removed from the consent agenda, the request shall be granted and the item
shall be discussed and voted upon separately.
   H.   Public Comments.
   1.   During this portion of the meeting, the mayor will invite citizens to
talk with the council about topics that are not scheduled for public testimony
on the evening's agenda.
   (a)   Speakers will limit their presentation to three to five minutes,
unless a longer period is permitted by the presiding officer and/or council.
   (b)   Speakers are asked to sign the speakers sign-in sheet provided.
   2.   Written comments may be submitted into the record of a council meeting
by presenting the written document to the clerk of the meeting. A copy of the
document will be provided to each council member; the document will not be read
aloud.
   I.   Award of Contract. Before presentation to the council, all contract
documents shall have been:
   1.   Approved as to form and legality by the city attorney or the city
attorney's authorized representative; and
   2.   First referred for review to the head of the department under whose
jurisdiction the administration of the subject matter of the contract document
would devolve; and
   3.   Further, presented to the city manager or authorized representative for
review.
   J.   Boards and Commissions. During this portion of the meeting, council may
consider board and commission interviews, appointments, and/or other advisory
board-related business as necessary.
   K.   Ordinances and Resolutions.
   1.   Ordinances, resolutions and other matters or subjects requiring action
by the council must be introduced by a member of the council, except that the
city manager, city attorney or department directors may present ordinances,
resolutions and other matters or subjects to the council, and any council
member may assume sponsorship thereof by moving that such ordinances,
resolutions, matters or subjects be adopted; otherwise, they shall not be
considered.
   2.   City officials and committees shall prepare any reports required by the
council.
   L.   Public Meetings, Public Hearings, Open Record Reviews and Closed Record
Reviews.
   1.   After giving their name and address, individuals desiring to speak
during a public hearing are to address the council from the speaker podium.
   (a)   Comments are limited to the specific matter for which the public
hearing is held.
   (b)   Comments are limited to three to five minutes, unless a longer period
is permitted by the presiding officer and/or council.
   (c)   Unless the presiding officer grants an extension of time, comments are
limited to five minutes.
   2.   Written comments are encouraged during the public hearings.
   (a)   When materials are presented during public hearings, they should be
submitted to the city clerk before the public hearing is closed on the item.
   (b)   Written documents submitted will be entered into the record, but will
not be read aloud.
   3.   After a public hearing is closed, no member of the public shall be
permitted to address the council or the staff.
   (a)   In fairness to members of the public, the city council shall be
considered to be in deliberations from that point forward.
   (b)   Additional public testimony either that evening or at a future meeting
would be precluded until public hearing notification procedures required by the
Casa Grande Municipal Code are concluded.
   M.   Executive Session.
   1.   At the call of the presiding officer or with a majority vote, the city
council may recess to executive session to privately discuss and consider
matters of confidential concern to the well being of the city.
   2.   The purposes for which an executive session may be held are identified
in Article II, Section 14 of the City of Casa Grande Charter.
   3.   Before convening in executive session, the presiding officer shall
publicly announce the purpose for excluding the public from the meeting place,
and the time when the executive session will be concluded.
   4.   An executive session may be extended to a stated later time by
announcement of the presiding officer.
   N.   Reports. Members of the council and the city manager may take this
opportunity to make comments, extend compliments, express concerns or make
announcements concerning any topic they wish to share with staff or the public.
   O.   Addressing the Council—Generally.
   1.   Written Communications.
   (a)   All persons may address the council by written communication,
including e-mail.
     (b)   Such written communication pertaining to items subject to public
hearing procedures will be made a part of the public record, but will not be
read aloud.
   (c)   Written comments may be submitted to the council at any time by
mailing or otherwise delivering to: the City Clerk, 510 E. Florence Blvd., Casa
Grande, AZ 85222.
     (d)   The clerk will distribute a copy of the correspondence to each
council member.
   2.   Oral Communications. All persons may address the council verbally,
either:
   (a)   During the visitor's portion of the agenda for items not on the
agenda;
   (b)   During public hearings, following staff and, if applicable, applicant
comments;
   (c)   During items on the agenda that are not public hearings, etc.,
following staff comments at the discretion of the council.
   3.   Addressing the Council—Manner— Limits.
   (a)   Each person addressing the council will give his or her name and
address in an audible tone of voice for the record and, unless the council
grants further time, shall limit the address to five minutes.
   (b)   All remarks will be addressed to the council as a body and not to any
member thereof.
   (c)   No person other than the council and the person having the floor will
be permitted to enter into any discussion, either directly or through a member
of the council, without the permission of the mayor.
   P.   Addressing the Council—After a Motion is Made. After the council makes
a motion, no person will address the council without first securing the
permission of the mayor or presiding officer.
   Q.   Adjournment.
   1.   The council may, by a majority vote of those present, adjourn from time
to time to a specific date and hour.
   2.   A motion to adjourn shall always be in order and decided without
debate.
(Ord. 1397.02.08 § 2, 2005)
2.04.040 Suspension of rules when.
   Any of the provisions of this chapter may be temporarily suspended in
connection with any matter under consideration by a recorded vote of three-
fourths of the members present, except that this section shall not be construed
to permit any action that is contrary to state statutes.
(Prior code § 2-4-8)
Chapter 2.08
CITY CLERK
Sections:
2.08.010   Powers and duties.
2.08.020   Deputy city clerk—Appointment.
2.08.030   Deputy city clerk—Duties.
2.08.010 Powers and duties.
   A.   The city clerk shall keep a true and correct record of all business
transacted by the council and any other records that either pertain to the
business of the city or that the council directs. The clerk shall number,
plainly label, and file separately in a suitable cabinet all resolutions,
notices, deeds, surveys, leases, paid and unpaid vouchers, inventories,
letters, orders, and other documents of whatever nature.
   B.   Public Inspection of Records. The clerk shall keep convenient for
public inspection all public records and public documents under his control, as
provided by state statute.
   C.   Minutes. The clerk shall prepare or cause to be prepared all minutes of
council proceedings and ensure their correctness and accuracy.
   D.   Ordinances, Resolutions, Budgets and Notices. The clerk shall process,
record, file, publish, and if required by state statute, post all ordinances,
resolutions, budgets and notices that may be passed by the council.
   E.   Election Official. The clerk shall be the city election official and
perform those duties required by state statute.
   1.   The city clerk shall, in the case of initiative measures, require that
petitions ordering the submission of such measures to a vote of the people
contain the signatures of fifteen percent of the qualified electors within the
city limits. The city clerk shall determine the total number of registered
voters within the city limits from the most recent available statistics kept by
the county recorder.
   F.   Licenses. The clerk shall issue or cause to be issued all licenses that
may be prescribed by state statute or this code.
(Ord. 1368 § 1 (part), 1990; prior code § 4-3-1)
2.08.020 Deputy city clerk—Appointment.
   The city clerk is authorized, with the advice and consent of the city
manager, to appoint the deputy city clerk.
(Ord. 1397.02.15 § 1(part), 2019)
2.08.030 Deputy city clerk—Duties.
   The deputy city clerk shall act as the city clerk when the city clerk is
absent, unavailable, or otherwise unable to act for any reason. In the absence
of the city clerk, the deputy city clerk shall have the duty to execute,
attest, and acknowledge all documents required by law or ordinance to be
attested to and formalized by the city clerk and to affix the seal of the city
thereto. In signing any documents, the deputy city clerk shall affix the name
of the city clerk, followed by the word “by” and the deputy city clerk’s own
signature and title. The deputy city clerk shall perform other functions and
duties under the supervision and direction of the city clerk.
(Ord. 1397.02.15 § 1(part), 2019)
Chapter 2.12
CITY ATTORNEY
Sections:
2.12.010   Powers and duties.
2.12.010 Powers and duties.
   The attorney shall act as the legal counselor and advisor of the council and
other city officials, and as such shall give his opinion in writing when
requested. He shall draft all deeds, contracts, conveyances, ordinances,
resolutions and other legal instruments when required by the council. He shall
approve as to form, in writing, all drafts of contracts and all official or
other bonds before final approval or acceptance thereof by the council. He
shall return, within ten days, all ordinances and resolutions submitted to him
for consideration by the council, with his approval or disapproval as to form
noted thereon, together with his reasons therefor. He shall prosecute and
defend all suits, actions or causes where the city is a party, and shall report
to the council, when required, the condition of any suit or action to which the
city is a party.
(Prior code § 4-3-2)
Chapter 2.14
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
Sections:
2.14.010   Office created.
2.14.020   Appointment.
2.14.030   Qualifications required.
2.14.040   Powers and duties.
2.14.010 Office created.
   The office of director of finance is created and established. The director
of finance shall be the chief accounting officer of the city.
(Ord. 1368 § 2 (part), 1990)
2.14.020 Appointment.
   The director of finance shall be appointed by the city manager.
(Ord. 1368 § 2 (part), 1990)
2.14.030 Qualifications required.
   The director of finance shall be qualified by sufficient technical
accounting training, skill and experience to be proficient in the office. The
director of finance shall also show evidence of his executive ability.
(Ord. 1368 § 2 (part), 1990)
2.14.040 Powers and duties.
   The director of finance shall be the head of the finance department of the
city and shall have the power and is required to do the following:
   A.   Administration of Financial Affairs. He shall have charge of the
administration of the financial affairs of the city under the direction of the
city manager.
   B.   Budget. He shall compile the budget expense and income estimates for
the city manager.
   C.   Accounting System. He shall maintain a general accounting system for
the city government and of each of the offices, departments and agencies.
   D.   Disbursements. He shall supervise and be responsible for the
disbursement of all moneys and have control of all expenditures, audit and
approve before payment all bills, invoices, payrolls, demands or other charges
against the city government and with the advice of the city attorney, when
necessary, determine the regularity, legality and correctness of such claims,
demands or charges to ensure that budget appropriations are not exceeded.
   E.   Other Functions. He shall perform such other functions and have such
other responsibilities as the city manager may from time to time specify, or
such other functions and responsibilities as may be prescribed from time to
time, by action of the city council.
(Ord. 1368 § 2 (part), 1990)
Chapter 2.16
POLICE DEPARTMENT
Sections:
Article I. In General
2.16.010   Composition.
2.16.020   Appointment of chief of police.
2.16.030   Rules and regulations.
2.16.040   Duties.
2.16.050   Authority to answer calls outside city.
2.16.060   Unclaimed property—Procedure—Disposal.
Article II. Reserve Police
2.16.070   Established.
2.16.080   Appointment, powers and duties.
2.16.090   Oath of office.
2.16.100   Training.
2.16.110   Compliance with regulations.
Article I. In General
2.16.010 Composition.
   There is created a police department for the city which shall consist of a
chief of police, and as many policeman as may from time to time be deemed
necessary by the city manager for the safety and good order of the city.
(Prior code § 5-1-1)
2.16.020 Appointment of chief of police.
   The chief of police shall be appointed by the city manager.
(Prior code § 5-1-2)
2.16.030 Rules and regulations.
   The police department shall be operated and managed in accordance with such
departmental rules and regulations as may from time to time be recommended by
the chief of police and approved by the city manager.
(Prior code § 5-1-3)
2.16.040 Duties.
   It is the duty of the police department, under the direction of the chief of
police, to:
   A.   Enforce this code and the statutes of the state of Arizona within
jurisdictional limits as conferred by law and to arrest and charge the
violators thereof;
   B.   Take charge of the city jail and all prisoners confined therein, and
all those who are sentenced to labor on the streets or public works of the city
and to see that orders and sentences with reference to such are fully executed
and complied with;
   C.   Deliver any persons who may be confined in the jail upon conviction of
crime committed under the jurisdiction of the magistrate's court to any
authorized officer of the city who shall at any time demand such prisoners. Any
such authorized person so demanding and receiving such prisoners shall work
such prisoners on the streets or alleys of the city or any and all authorized
work as may be determined by the council;
   D.   Render such account of the police department, its duties, and receipts
as may be required by the council and city manager, and keep records of the
office open to inspection by the council or city manager at any time.
   E.   Direct traffic and ensure the orderly flow thereof and investigate and
make reports to traffic accidents;
   F.   Inspect and ascertain the condition of traffic control devices of every
description which have been erected within the city on the authority of the
council and to notify the city manager of any defects found therein;
   G.   Perform such additional duties as may be required by the council and
city manager.
(Prior code § 5-1-4)
2.16.050 Authority to answer calls outside city.
   The members of the police department of the city are duly authorized to
answer calls for aid and assistance beyond the corporate limits of the city
whenever the chief of police in his discretion shall deem it necessary to
protect lives and property.
(Prior code § 5-1-5)
2.16.060 Unclaimed property—Procedure—Disposal.
   A.   Unclaimed property shall be interpreted to mean and include bicycles,
automobiles, vehicles of whatever nature, suitcases, trunks and other baggage
and any such property except livestock and any weapons that come into the
possession of the police department and which is held for more than sixty days
without being claimed by and returned to the owner.
   B.   Upon taking possession of any property by any officer, agent or
employee of the city, the same shall be delivered to the police department, and
it shall be the duty of the police department to ascertain, if possible, the
owner thereof and to notify the owner by mail or in person that such property
is in the possession of the police department.
   C.   In the event the owner of unclaimed property cannot be found or does
not claim such property, the police department shall sell such property in the
manner set forth in this section:
   1.   The police department shall hold all such property for a period of
sixty days before selling;
   2.   At least ten days prior to the holding of the sale the police
department shall cause to be published in the official city newspaper, notice
of such sale, in which shall be stated the time and place of holding the sale
and the general nature of the unclaimed property to be sold, and shall mail a
copy of such notice to the owner, if known;
   3.   The police department shall also post a notice of such sale on the
bulletin board at the city hall, at least ten days prior to the date of sale;
   4.   Unclaimed property shall be sold at public auction for cash, either
singly or otherwise as the police department may see fit, to the highest
bidder;
   5.   All proceeds of such sale over and above the sale and advertising costs
shall be paid over to the treasurer and retained in a separate fund for six
months. Upon the expiration of such time, unless sooner claimed as hereinafter
provided, such moneys shall be paid into the general fund;
   6.   Within six months following the sale any person claiming the ownership
of any property sold may receive the proceeds from the sale of such property,
less its proportionate share of the costs of sale, upon proof of ownership to
the satisfaction of the police department.
   D.   Upon delivery to any purchaser of any property sold under the
provisions of this section, the police department shall execute to the
purchaser a certificate of sale, describing the item sold and the date of sale,
and the certificate shall serve to pass title to the purchaser.
(Prior code § 5-1-6)
Article II. Reserve Police
2.16.070 Established.
   There is created in and for the city a police reserve system for the purpose
of preserving the public peace and promoting the general welfare of the city by
giving authority to persons appointed as reserve police officers to assist and
supplement the regular police officers of the city in the enforcement of city
ordinances and state statutes.
(Prior code § 5-1-7)
2.16.080 Appointment, powers and duties.
   The chief of police with approval of the city manager, may appoint and
dismiss adult residents of the city as reserve police officers, and shall
assign them to such duties as he may deem to be in the best interests of the
city in promoting the public peace and general welfare.
(Prior code § 5-1-8)
2.16.090 Oath of office.
   Every person appointed by the chief of police as a reserve police officer
shall be sworn to faithful performance of his required duties as prescribed by
the chief of police.
(Prior code § 5-1-9)
2.16.100 Training.
   The chief of police shall conduct a period of pre-assignment training for
reserve police officers sufficient to enable the officers to perform properly
and adequately their required duties. Further, the chief of police may require
such additional continuing training as he may deem necessary or advisable.
(Prior code § 5-1-10)
2.16.110 Compliance with regulations required.
   Reserve police officers shall adhere to and be governed by the rules and
regulations laid down for the guidance of regular police officers insofar as
such rules and regulations are applicable to and consistent with the special
class or duty prescribed for reserve police officers by the chief of police.
Reserve police officers shall also comply with all other applicable ordinances,
rules and regulations adopted by the city council.
(Prior code § 5-1-11)
Chapter 2.20
FIRE DEPARTMENT
Sections:
2.20.010   Creation and composition.
2.20.020   Compliance with regulations required.
2.20.030   Fire chief—Appointment, powers and duties.
2.20.040   Fire chief—Authority.
2.20.050   Firemen—Appointment, powers and duties.
2.20.060   Authority to enter adjacent property.
2.20.070   Equipment.
2.20.080   Fire protection outside city.
2.20.090   Right-of-way of firemen when responding to alarm.
2.20.100   Fire alarms.
2.20.110   Bureau of fire prevention established—Powers and duties.
2.20.111   Fire department fees.
2.20.010 Creation and composition.
   There is created a fire department for the city which shall consist of a
chief, and as many regular and volunteer firemen as may be deemed necessary
from time to time by the city manager upon recommendation of the fire chief.
(Prior code § 5-2-1)
2.20.020 Compliance with regulations required.
   The fire department shall be operated and managed in accordance with such
departmental rules and regulations as may from time to time be recommended by
the fire chief and approved by the city manager.
(Prior code § 5-2-2)
2.20.030 Fire chief—Appointment, powers and duties.
   The chief of the fire department shall be appointed by the city manager. It
shall be the duty of the fire chief to:
   A.   Be accountable to the council for the personnel, morale and general
efficiency of the fire department;
   B.   Direct the operations of the fire department, subject to the rules and
regulations thereof;
   C.   Be present at all fires, if possible, and plan and direct the
extinguishment thereof. During the progress of a fire the authority of the fire
chief shall be absolute in all matters directly concerning the extinguishment
of fire and the disposition of property endangered by it;
   D.   Conduct suitable drill or instruction in the operation and handling of
equipment, first aid and rescue work, salvage, a study of buildings in the
city, water supplies and all other matters generally considered essential to
good firemanship and safety of life and property from fire;
   E.   Assist the proper authorities in suppressing the crime of arson by
investigating or causing to be investigated the cause, origin and circumstances
of all fires;
   F.   Inspect buildings and premises and serve written notice upon the owner
or occupant to abate, within a specified time, any and all fire hazards that
may be found. For the purpose of conducting such inspection, the chief is
empowered to enter any and all buildings and premises within the city at any
reasonable hour. Any person served with such written notice shall comply and
notify the chief of his compliance within a reasonable time;
   G.   Keep complete records of all fires, inspections, apparatus and
equipment personnel and other information about the work of the department open
to inspection by the city manager and furnish to the city manager such
information upon request;
   H.   Enforce or cause to be enforced all ordinances, laws and regulations of
the city and state, insofar as they pertain to fire and safety.
(Prior code § 5-2-3)
2.20.040 Fire chief—Authority.
   It is unlawful for any fireman or citizen to refuse to obey an order issued
by the fire chief pursuant to his authority.
(Prior code § 5-2-10)
2.20.050 Firemen—Appointment, powers and duties.
   Volunteer firemen shall be appointed by the city manager upon the
recommendation of the fire chief. Such appointees shall be able-bodied citizens
whose business activities are normally within the confines of the city, and who
have telephones in their homes.
(Ord. 1368 § 3 (part), 1990; prior code § 5-2-4)
2.20.060 Authority to enter adjacent property.
   It is lawful for any fireman acting under the direction of the chief or
another officer in command to enter upon the premises adjacent to or in the
vicinity of any building or other property that is on fire for the purpose of
extinguishing such fire, and no person shall hinder, resist or obstruct any
fireman in the discharge of his duty as hereinabove provided.
(Prior code § 5-2-5)
2.20.070 Equipment.
   The department shall be equipped with such apparatus and other equipment as
may be required from time to time to maintain its efficiency and properly
protect life and property from fire. Recommendations concerning apparatus and
equipment needed shall be made by the chief to the city manager. All equipment
of the department shall be safely and conveniently housed in such place or
places as may be designated by the council. No person shall use any fire
apparatus or equipment for any private purpose, nor shall any person wilfully
take away or conceal any article used in any way by the department. No person
shall enter any place where the fire apparatus is housed or handle any
apparatus or equipment belonging to the department unless accompanied by, or
having special permission of, an officer or authorized member of the
department. No fire apparatus or equipment shall be hired out or permitted to
leave the fire station except in response to a call for aid at a fire within
the corporate limits of the city, or in response to a call for aid at a fire in
an area authorized for fire protection service of mutual aid under provisions
of Section
3.20.080.
(Prior code § 5-2-6)
2.20.080 Fire protection outside city.
   The council may enter into agreements or contracts to furnish fire
protection outside the city or enter into mutual aid agreements, and the fire
department is authorized to render fire fighting service pursuant to the terms
of such agreements or contracts.
(Prior code § 5-2-7)
2.20.090 Right-of-way of firemen when responding to alarm.
   Each volunteer member of the department who drives a private motor vehicle
shall be issued suitable insignia which may be attached to such motor vehicle.
All motor equipment of the department and all motor vehicles of department
members shall have right-of-way over all other traffic when responding to an
alarm. No unauthorized vehicle shall follow within six hundred feet of any
apparatus belonging to the department nor park any vehicle or otherwise cause
any obstructions to be placed within ten feet of the entrance to any fire
station or other place where fire apparatus is stored or within fifteen feet of
any fire hydrant. No person shall drive any vehicle over fire hose except on
specific orders from the chief or other officer in charge where the hose is
used.
(Prior code § 5-2-8)
2.20.100 Fire alarms.
   Suitable arrangements or equipment shall be provided for citizens to use in
an alarm and for notifying all members of the department so that they may
properly respond. It is unlawful for any person knowingly to turn in or cause
to be turned in a false alarm.
(Prior code § 5-2-9)
2.20.110 Bureau of fire prevention established—Powers and duties.
   A.   The Uniform Fire Code shall be enforced by the bureau of fire
prevention in the fire department of the city which is established and which
shall be operated under the supervision of the chief of the fire department.
   B.   The chief (or fire marshal) in charge of the bureau of fire prevention
shall be appointed by the city on the basis of examination to determine his
qualifications.
   C.   The chief of the fire department may detail such members of the fire
department as inspectors as shall from time to time be necessary. The chief of
the fire department shall recommend to the city manager the employment of
technical inspectors, who, when such authorization is made, shall be selected
through an examination to determine their fitness for the position. The
examination shall be open to members and nonmembers of the fire department, and
appointments made after examination shall be for an indefinite term with
removal only for cause.
(Prior code § 5-3-2)
2.20.111 Fire department fees.
   All fees associated with the Casa Grande Fire Department and its services
are hereby established in the City Consolidated Fee Schedule pursuant to
Section
1.04.170.
(Ord. 1397.02.10 § 1, 2008; Ord. 1397.02.05 § 1, 1998; Ord. 1397.02.01, 1995)
Chapter 2.24
CITY COURT
Sections:
2.24.010   Established.
2.24.020   Authority.
2.24.030   Business hours.
2.24.040   City judge—Appointment.
2.24.050   City judge—Powers and duties.
2.24.060   Judicial selection committee established—Composition—Purpose.
2.24.070   Deputy city judge—Office created—Appointment—Duties.
2.24.080   Criminal proceedings—Statutory authority—Performed under oath.
2.24.081   Proceedings for civil traffic violation offenses.
2.24.082   Proceedings for civil violation offenses.
2.24.083   Commencement of an action alleging a civil violation: citation and
complaint.
2.24.084   Method of service of citation or complaint for a civil violation.
2.24.085   Civil violation cases to be heard by judge or hearing officer.
2.24.090   Bail.
2.24.100   Jail cost recovery fee.
2.24.110   City court enhancement fee.
2.24.120   Reserved
2.24.130   Court warrant administrative fee.
2.24.140   Court deferred prosecution fee.
2.24.150   Court Probation, Monitoring and Compliance Fee.
2.24.160    Reserved.
2.24.170   Court security fee.
2.24.200   Home detention and electronic monitoring program.
2.24.010 Established.
   There shall be and is established in the city a municipal court, to be known
and designated “The City Court of the City of Casa Grande, Pinal County, State
of Arizona.”
(Prior code § 6-1-1)
2.24.020 Authority.
   The city court shall, within the territorial limits of the city, have and
exercise the following jurisdiction:
   A.   It shall have and exercise exclusive original jurisdiction of all
proceedings of a criminal nature for the violation of any ordinance of the
city, and of every action of a civil nature for the enforcement of a penalty,
or the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by any ordinance of the city
for violation thereof, or for neglect to perform any duty by any ordinance
imposed, and of every action for the collection of any license, fine or penalty
due from any person to the city, and required to be paid, or which is due and
collectible under the ordinance of the city.
   B.   The city court shall have concurrent jurisdiction with the justices of
the peace, in the precincts where the city is established, over all violations
of the laws of the state committed within the limits of the city; the
concurrent jurisdiction shall be subject to the rules of civil procedure
applicable to trials before justices of the peace.
(Prior code § 6-1-2)
2.24.030 Business hours.
   The city court shall always be open, except on nonjudicial days, and on such
nonjudicial days, it may transact such business within its jurisdiction as is
authorized by law to be transacted by courts of justice of the peace, relative
to businesses within their jurisdiction.
(Prior code Art. 6-2)
2.24.040 City judge—Appointment.
   The presiding officer of the city court shall be a city judge who shall be
appointed by the council for a term coterminous with that of the mayor, unless
sooner removed for misfeasance, malfeasance or nonfeasance of office.
(Prior code § 6-3-1)
2.24.050 City judge—Powers and duties.
   The powers and duties of the city judge shall include:
   A.   The powers and duties set forth in and conferred upon him under the
provisions of the State Constitution and statutes, the charter, this code, and
the ordinances and the resolutions of the city;
   B.   The authorization to issue and cause to be served, any and all writs
and processes, and he shall have full authority to hear and to determine all
matters properly coming before him and coming within his jurisdiction herein
specified. The writs and processes to be used shall be similar to those used by
justices of the peace in cases of similar nature, and proper record shall be
kept of the issuances of writs and processes and returns, and of any kind and
all other actions taken relative thereto, and the actions of the court thereof;
   C.   The keeping of a docket in which shall be entered such action on the
proceedings of the court therein;
   D.   The responsibility for fixing and receiving all bonds and bails and
receiving all fines, penalties, fees and other moneys as provided by law;
   E.   The payment of all fees, fines, penalties and moneys collected by the
court to the treasurer;
   F.   The submitting of a monthly report to the council summarizing court
activities for that month;
   G.   The preparation of a schedule of traffic violations not involving the
death of a person, listing specific bail for each violation;
   H.   The designation of a deputy other than a law enforcement officer and a
specific location at which the deputy shall, during hours when the court is not
open, set the amount of bail in accordance with the foregoing schedule and
collect such bail, or accept proper bail bonds in lieu thereof, for and on
behalf of the court.
(Prior code Art. 6-4)
2.24.060 Judicial selection committee established—Composition—Purpose.
   A.   The council shall, by ordinance, establish a judicial selection
committee. The committee shall be composed of five persons who are residents of
the city. Within fifteen days following the expiration of each two year term of
the city judge or following the time that a vacancy exists in the office, the
judicial selection committee shall recommend to the council at least two
persons to fill the vacancy.
   B.   The presiding officer of the city court shall be appointed by the
council from the list of those persons recommended by the judicial selection
committee.
   C.   Each judicial selection committee, established under the terms of this
section, shall exist for the sole purpose of recommending to the city council
persons to fill vacancies in the office of city judge and immediately upon the
filling of the vacancy by the city council, each judicial selection committee
shall forthwith cease to exist.
   D.   At the expiration of the city judge's term of office, the council may
appoint the judge to fill the office until such time as the judicial selection
committee has made its recommendations and the council has appointed his
successor.
(Prior code § 6-3-2)
2.24.070 Deputy city judge—Office created—Appointment—Duties.
   The office of deputy city judge is created. A deputy city judge shall be
appointed by and shall serve at the pleasure of the council for such term and
for such salary as the council may determine. The council may appoint more than
one deputy judge to assure the continued operation of the city court in the
absence of the city judge, designating a first and second deputy for the
purposes of court administration. The deputy city judge shall perform the
duties of the city judge in the absence of the city judge in such manner as the
council may direct.
(Prior code § 6-3-3)
2.24.080 Criminal proceedings—Statutory authority—Performed under oath.
   A.   All proceedings on criminal violations shall be conducted in accordance
with the state constitution, the applicable state statutes and rules of the
state supreme court pertaining to police courts. The proceedings shall also be
conducted in accordance with the rules of criminal procedure for the superior
court, unless otherwise prescribed, and providing the charter, this code,
ordinances and resolutions of the city are not in conflict therewith.
   B.   The city court criminal proceedings shall be commenced by complaint
under oath, or as prescribed by applicable state statutes and rules of the
State Supreme Court, and in the name of the state setting forth the offense
charged with and such particulars of time, place, person, and property as to
enable the defendant to understand distinctly the character of the offense
complained of and to answer the complaint.
   C.   If the judge is satisfied that the criminal offense complained of has
been committed by the person charged, the judge shall issue a summons or a
warrant of arrest. Before issuing a summons or warrant of arrest on a
complaint, the judge may subpoena and examine witnesses as to the truth of the
complaint.
(Ord. 1397.01.03 § 4 (part), 1998; prior code § 6-5-1)
2.24.081 Proceedings for civil traffic violation offenses.
   The Arizona Rules of Court for civil traffic violation cases, as established
by the Arizona Supreme Court and amended from time to time, shall apply in the
adjudication of civil traffic violations brought before the city court of the
city of Casa Grande.
(Ord. 1397.01.03 § 4 (part), 1998)
2.24.082 Proceedings for civil violation offenses.
   In all cases brought before the City Court of Casa Grande involving
adjudication of offenses classified as civil violations by the municipal code,
the Arizona Rules of Court for civil traffic violation cases, as established by
the Arizona Supreme Court and amended from time to time by that court, shall
apply except as supplemented or modified herein, Arizona Supreme Court-approved
local rules of procedure for the Casa Grande City Court.
(Ord. 1397.01.03 § 4 (part), 1998)
2.24.083 Commencement of an action alleging a civil violation: Citation and
complaint.
   A.   A civil violation may be commenced by issuance of a citation or by
civil complaint. Any city employee responsible for the enforcement of any
provision of the city code may issue a citation. Alternatively, an attorney for
the city may file a complaint. Upon receipt of the complaint, the court shall
issue a summons.
   B.   Form of the citation. The citation will be substantially in the same
form as the Arizona traffic ticket and complaint, as approved by the Arizona
Supreme Court, and shall direct the defendant to appear in City Court of the
city of Casa Grande within ten (10) days after issuance of the citation.
(Ord. 1397.01.03 § 4 (part), 1998)
2.24.084 Method of service of citation or complaint for a civil violation.
   A.   An employee of the city, authorized to issue a citation under the city
code, may serve a citation by hand delivering it to the defendant.
   B.   A civil citation or civil complaint and summons may also be served by
any means allowed by the Arizona Rules of Civil Procedure for the Superior
Court, as approved by the Arizona Supreme Court and as amended from time to
time.
   C.   In addition, a civil citation or summons may be served by certified or
registered mail, return receipt requested. Return of the receipt shall be prima
facie evidence of service.
(Ord. 1397.01.03 § 4 (part), 1998)
2.24.085 Civil violation cases to be heard by judge or hearing officer.
   A municipal court judge or a civil hearing officer shall hear and dispose of
civil violations, and make such orders as may be necessary and proper to
dispose of such cases. Cases shall be heard without a jury.
(Ord. 1397.01.03 § 4 (part), 1998)
2.24.090 Bail.
   The defendant, at any time after arrest, and before conviction, shall be
admitted to bail, if bailable.
(Prior code § 6-5-2)
2.24.100 Jail Cost Recovery Fee.
   A.   Any person who is convicted of a misdemeanor criminal offense in the
city court and is sentenced to a term of incarceration in the county jail, or
any other detention facility authorized by law, shall pay a Jail Cost Recovery
Fee to reimburse the city for its actual expenses incurred.
   B.   A city judge may waive all or a portion of the Jail Cost Recovery Fee
set forth in subsection (A) after finding the person has a substantial
financial hardship or is indigent based on sworn affidavits of the person.
   C.   If a person pays some or all of their fine, surcharges, restitution, or
other fees over time, the Jail Cost Recovery Fee shall be collected prior to
the payment of any fine, surcharges or other fees, except restitution, and the
Court Enhancement Fee as established in Casa Grande Municipal Code §
2.24.110.
(Ord. 1397.02.22 § 1, 2025; Ord. 1397.02.02 § 1, 1997)
2.24.110 City Court Enhancement Fee.
   A.   A person convicted of a criminal offense, petty offense, or found
responsible of a civil offense in the city court shall pay a Court Enhancement
Fee in the amount as set forth in the City of Casa Grande Consolidated Fee
Schedule adopted pursuant to Section
1.04.170 of this Code, for each offense for which they were convicted or found
responsible and a fine is imposed.
   B.   There is hereby created a Court Enhancement Fund, which shall be used
to enhance the technological, operational and security capabilities of the city
court.
   C.   The City Court Enhancement Fund shall be established as a designated
fund account with the city treasurer. The city court shall collect Court
Enhancement Fees and deposit them in the Court Enhancement Fund account. The
city treasurer shall invest the monies in the fund in the same manner as city
funds. Interest earned on fund monies shall be deposited in the fund.
   D.   The city court shall administer the fund and may make expenditures from
the fund for the purposes provided in this section. Monies from the fund shall
supplement monies already provided to the city court for the general purposes
stated in this section.
   E.   If a person pays some or all of their fine, surcharges, restitution, or
other fees over time, the Court Enhancement Fee shall be collected prior to the
payment of any fine, surcharges or other fees except restitution.
(Ord. 1397.02.22 § 2, 2025; Ord. 1397.02.09 § 1, 2006; Ord. 1397.02.02 § 2,
1997)
2.24.120 Reserved
2.24.130 Court Warrant Administrative Fee.
   A.   When a judge of the city court issues a warrant for non-compliance with
court orders, failure to pay a fine, failure to pay restitution, or failure to
pay any other fees, the judge shall impose an administrative fee in the amount
as set forth in the City of Casa Grande Consolidated Fee Schedule adopted
pursuant to Section
1.04.170 of this Code, upon the person for whom the arrest warrant is issued.
   B.   A city judge may waive all or a portion of the administrative fee set
forth in subsection A when, in the judge's opinion, such waiver would be in the
interest of justice, or after finding the person has a substantial financial
hardship or is indigent based on sworn affidavits of the person.
   C.   If a person pays some or all of their fine, surcharges, restitution, or
other fees over time, the Warrant Administrative Fee shall be collected prior
to the payment of any fine, surcharges or other fees, except restitution, the
Court Enhancement Fee as established in Casa Grande Municipal Code §
2.24.110, or the Jail Cost Recovery Fee as established in Casa Grande Municipal
Code §
2.24.110.
(Ord. 1397.02.22 § 3, 2025; Ord. 1397.02.09 § 3, 2006; Ord. 1397.02.02 § 4,
1997)
2.24.140 Court Deferred Prosecution Fee.
   A.   A Deferred Prosecution Fee shall be imposed on each criminal case for
which the court defers prosecution pursuant to Rule 38 of the Arizona Rules of
Criminal Procedure (or its substitute). The amount of the Deferred Prosecution
Fee shall be in the amount as set forth in the City of Casa Grande Consolidated
Fee Schedule adopted pursuant to Section
1.04.170 of this Code. The City Court shall collect the fee and deposit it in
the Fund established in Section
2.24.150 of this Code.
   B.   A city judge may waive all or a portion of the fee set forth in
subsection A when, in the judge's opinion, such waiver would be in the interest
of justice, or after finding the person has a substantial financial hardship or
is indigent based on sworn affidavits of the person.
(Ord. 1397.02.22 § 4, 2025; Ord. 1397.02.09 § 4, 2006; Ord. 1397.02.02 § 5,
1997)
2.24.150 Court Probation, Monitoring and Compliance Fee.
   A.   The city court shall assess each person placed on probation a Probation
Fee in the amount as set forth in the City of Casa Grande Consolidated Fee
Schedule adopted pursuant to Section
1.04.170 of this Code.
   B.   The city court shall assess each person, not on probation, but ordered
to complete education, treatment, counseling and/or screening, a Court
Monitoring Fee in the amount as set forth in the City of Casa Grande
Consolidated Fee Schedule adopted pursuant to Section
1.04.170 of this Code.
   C.   In order to help recover the costs of conducting hearings related to
apparent failures to follow the orders of the city court, a Court Compliance
Recovery Fee in the amount as set forth in the City of Casa Grande Consolidated
Fee Schedule adopted pursuant to Section
1.04.170 of this Code, shall be assessed against persons who have been
determined by the court, after notice and opportunity to be heard, to have
failed to comply with the orders of the court without good cause.
   D.   A city judge may waive all or a portion of the Probation, Court
Monitoring, or Compliance, Fees established in subsections (A), and (B), and
(C) when, in the judge's opinion, such waiver would be in the interest of
justice or, after finding the defendant has a substantial financial hardship or
is indigent based on sworn affidavits of the person.
   E.    A Probation/Monitoring/Compli ance /Deferred Prosecution
Administration Fund (the "Fund") account has been established, which shall be
used to fund the court compliance program. The Fund shall be established as a
designated fund account with the city treasurer. The city court shall collect
the fees set forth in Section
2.24.140 and this Section
2.24.150 and deposit them in the Fund account. The city treasurer shall invest
the monies in the Fund in the same manner as city funds. Interest earned on
Fund monies shall be deposited in the Fund.
   F.   The city court shall administer the Fund and may make expenditures from
the Fund for the purposes provided in this section. Monies from the Fund shall
supplement monies already provided to the city court for the administration of
court monitoring duties as stated in this section and for monitoring compliance
with the terms of deferred prosecutions.
   G.   If a person pays some or all of their fine, surcharges, restitution, or
other fees over time, the fees set forth in Section
2.24.140 and this Section
2.24.150 shall be collected prior to the payment of any fine, surcharges or
other fees, except restitution, the Court Enhancement Fee as established in
Casa Grande Municipal Code Section
2.24.110, or the Jail Cost Recovery Fee as established in Casa Grande Municipal
Code Section
2.24.100.
(Ord. 1397.02.22 § 5, 2025; Ord. 1397.02.09 § 5, 2006; Ord. 1397.02.06 § 1,
1999; Ord. 1397.02.04 § 1, 1998)
2.24.160 Reserved.
2.24.170 Court Security Fee.
   A.   A person convicted of a criminal offense, petty offense, or found
responsible of a civil offense in the city court shall pay a Court Security Fee
in the amount as set forth in the City of Casa Grande Consolidated Fee Schedule
adopted pursuant to Section
1.04.170 of this Code, for each offense in which they were convicted, or found
responsible and a fine is imposed.
   B.   A Court Security Fund has been established and shall be used to fund
the court's security program.
   C.   The Court Security Fund shall be established as a designated fund
account with the city treasurer. The city court shall collect Court Security
Fees and deposit them in the Court Security Fund account. The city treasurer
shall invest the monies in the fund in the same manner as city funds. Interest
earned on fund monies shall be deposited in the fund.
   D.   The city court shall administer the fund and shall make expenditures
from the fund solely for the purposes provided in this section.
(Ord. 1397.02.22 § 7, 2025; Ord. 1397.02.16 § 1, 2021; Ord. 1397.02.12 § 1,
2014)
2.24.200   Home detention and electronic monitoring program.
   A.   Authorization to Use Alternative Sentencing Options. If a person is
sentenced to jail confinement by the city court, the judge may substitute home
detention and monitoring for a portion or all of the jail term, as provided in
this Section
2.24.200. The city court may also sentence a person to provide community
restitution work, either as a condition of entering the home detention and
monitoring program, or as a separate term of any sentence by the city court.
   B.   Definitions. For purposes of this Section
2.24.200, the following terms are hereby defined:
   “Community restitution work” means work, traditionally referred to as
community service, and performed by a person without compensation for the city
or a community-oriented organization designated by the city, in order to
provide partial restitution to the community for the commission of an offense.
   “Electronic monitoring device” means equipment that is able to continuously
confirm the location of the person to whom it is issued.
   “Home detention and electronic monitoring program” means a sentence that
allows a person to be released from or not serve time in jail, but requires
that the person be affixed with an electronic monitoring device and comply with
all other court orders and requirements.
   “Provider” means a person or entity that has entered into an agreement with
the city of Casa Grande to provide for the issuance of electronic monitoring
devices, the continual monitoring of electronic monitoring devices, and the
furnishing of alcohol and/or drug testing.
   C.   Persons Not Eligible for Participation in Program. A person is not
eligible for the home detention and electronic monitoring program if any of the
following apply:
   1.   The person is found by the city to constitute a risk to themselves or
other members of the community.
   2.   The person has a past history of violent behavior.
   3.   The sentencing judge states at the time of the sentence that the person
may not be eligible for the home detention and electronic monitoring program.
   4.   The person has, within the previous thirty-six (36) calendar months,
previously been a participant in the home detention and electronic monitoring
program, and such participation was terminated as a result of the violation by
such person of any condition set by the court, including but not limited to:
failure to complete a court-ordered treatment program, use of alcohol or drugs,
or failure to remain within the designated premises during home detention.
   D.   Provider Required. Before any person may participate in the home
detention and electronic monitoring program, the city shall have entered into
an agreement with one or more providers to implement the home detention and
electronic monitoring program, requiring the provider to provide for the
issuance of electronic monitoring devices, continually monitoring those
devices, and providing such other services as the city may require.
   E.   Requirements for Persons Selected for Home Detention and Electronic
Monitoring Program. If a person is sentenced to a term of confinement by the
court for an offense other than driving under the influence:
   1.   Except as permitted by the court pursuant to Paragraph G. of this
Section
2.24.200, the person shall remain at the premises designated by the court.
   2.   The court may order that the person be affixed with an electronic
monitoring device and be required, except as permitted by the court pursuant to
Paragraph G. of this Section
2.24.200, to remain at the premises designated by the court.
   3.   The person shall be employed and in a job that the court determines is
suitable in both type and location of work for the home detention program. The
court may, alternatively or in addition thereto, assign the person to a
community restitution work assignment. The court may waive the requirement of
employment or community restitution in cases where the court finds the person
is incapable of employment or performing community restitution work.
   4.   The Court may place other restrictions on persons in the program,
including but not limited to: prohibiting the use of and testing the person for
consumption of alcoholic beverages or drugs; requiring that the person
participate in a screening, education or treatment program for alcohol,
substance abuse, or anger management purposes; requiring that the person
maintain employment without absence therefrom during the term of home
detention; participation in a community restitution work program, including
participation on weekends even if the person is also employed during the week;
and prohibiting the association of the person with individuals who are
determined to be detrimental to the person's successful participation in the
program.
   5.   The person shall bear the expense and be responsible for the full
payment of all costs of home detention, testing, electronic monitoring,
counseling, treatment, or other costs related to the person's participation in
the home detention and electronic monitoring program unless, after determining
the inability of the person to pay the cost, the court assesses a lesser
amount.
   F.   Requirements for Persons Sentenced for DUI Offenses. In addition to any
requirements set forth in Paragraph E. of this Section
2.24.200, if a person is sentenced to a term of confinement by the court as a
result of any driving under the influence charge:
   1.   If the person is sentenced pursuant to ARS 28-1381(I), as from time to
time amended, the person must first serve a minimum of twenty-four (24)
consecutive hours in jail.
   2.   If the person is sentenced pursuant to ARS 28-1381(K), as from time to
time amended, or ARS 28-1382(D) or (E), as from time to time amended, the
person must first serve a minimum of twenty percent (20%) of the initial term
of incarceration in jail before being eligible to be placed in home detention.
   3.   The person shall have an electronic monitoring device affixed to them
throughout the term of home detention.
   4.   The person shall bear the full cost of all testing, monitoring, and
enrollment in the home detention and electronic monitoring program, after
determining the inability of the person to pay the cost, the court assesses a
lesser amount.
   5.   The person shall be employed and in a job that the court determines is
suitable in both type and location of work for the home detention program. The
court may, alternatively or in addition thereto, assign the person to a
community restitution work assignment. The court may waive the requirement of
employment or community restitution in cases where the court finds the person
is incapable of employment or performing community restitution work.
   6.   The person shall be subject to continuous testing for the use of
alcoholic beverages or drugs, by a scientific method that is not limited to
urinalysis or a breath or intoxication test.
   7.   The person shall participate in an alcohol or drug program, or both as
determined by the court. These programs must be accredited by the department of
health services or a county probation department.
   8.   The person shall be prohibited from associating with any individual
determined to be detrimental to the person's successful participation in the
program.
   9.   The person shall, if consecutive hours of jail time are ordered, remain
at home during the consecutive hours ordered.
   10.   The person shall fully comply with any additional conditions or terms
set forth by the court in any order establishing the person's sentence or
eligibility for the home detention and electronic monitoring program.
   11.   The person shall, except as set forth in Paragraph G. of this Section
2.24.200, remain at the premises designated by the court.
   G.   Permission by Court to Leave Premises. The court may permit a person in
the home detention and electronic monitoring program, who has first secured the
written permission of the court, to leave the designated premises to:
   1.   Be employed outside the home;
   2.   Conduct community restitution work;
   3.   Attend classes at accredited education institutions;
   4.   Attend funerals and religious services;
   5.   Attend medical appointments; and
   6.   Travel to a provider's location as required by the provider to ensure
payment of fees or proper operation of the electronic monitoring device.
   H.   Reserved.
   I.   Termination of Participation in the Home Detention and Electronic
Monitoring Program.
   1.   The city court shall terminate a person's participation in the home
detention and electronic monitoring program, and require the person to complete
the remaining term of any jail sentence by jail confinement, if the person
fails to successfully complete a court-ordered alcohol or drug screening,
counseling, education and treatment program, or the court finds that the person
left the premises without permission of the court or supervising authority
during a time that the person was ordered to be on the premises.
   2.   The city court may terminate a person's participation in the home
detention and electronic monitoring program at any other time for any reason
and, if terminated, may require the person to complete the remaining term of
any jail sentence.
   3.   If the city council, by a majority vote of its full membership,
terminates the home detention and electronic monitoring program, then a
person's participation in the home detention and electronic monitoring program
shall terminate on the effective date of the home detention and electronic
monitoring program's termination.
   J.   Administrative Fee for Participation in the Home Detention and
Electronic Monitoring Program. In addition to paying for the full cost of
participation in the home detention and electronic monitoring program as set
forth elsewhere in this Section
2.24.200, a person subject to electronic monitoring shall pay an administrative
fee of thirty dollars ($30) per month to the city while on electronic
monitoring, unless, after determining the inability of the person to pay these
fees, the court assesses a lesser fee.
(Ord. 1397.02.22 § 8, 2025; Ord. 1397.02.11 § 1, 2010)
Chapter 2.28
AIRPORT ADVISORY BOARD
Sections:
2.28.010   Creation.
2.28.020   Definitions.
2.28.030   Membership.
2.28.040   Administrative structure - Quorum.
2.28.050   Duties.
2.28.060   Additional duties.
2.28.010 Creation.
   There is created, constituted and established an airport advisory board of
the city.
(Ord. 1397.02.07 § 2 (part), 2001)
2.28.020 Definitions.
   The term “aeronautical activity” as used in this chapter means any activity
which involves, makes possible, is required for, or is incidental to the
operation of aircraft at the municipal airport, or which contributes to or is
required for the safety of such operations, including, but not limited to, the
following: air taxi and charter operations; scheduled or nonscheduled air
carrier services; pilot training; aircraft rental and sightseeing; aerial
photography; crop dusting; aerial advertising and surveying; aircraft sales and
service; aircraft storage; sale of aviation petroleum products; repair and
maintenance of aircraft; sale of aircraft parts; parachute activities; and
ultralight activities.
(Ord. 1397.02.07 § 2 (part), 2001)
2.28.030 Membership.
   The airport advisory board shall consist of seven members, appointed by the
city council to serve for a period of three years. The airport advisory board
members may be reappointed by the city council for a second three-year term. In
the event of death, resignation, removal or disqualification of any member of
the airport advisory board, the city council shall appoint a member who shall
serve for the unexpired term thus vacated.
(Ord. 1397.02.18 § 1, 2022; Ord. 1397.02.07 § 2 (part), 2001)
2.28.040 Administrative structure—Quorum.
   The members of the airport advisory board shall elect a chairman and a vice
chairman and shall make the rules for the administration and proper functioning
of the airport advisory board as they may deem expedient which shall not be
inconsistent with the laws of the state or the ordinances of the city. Four
members of the airport advisory board shall constitute a quorum for the
exercise of the powers and authority conferred upon it. The concurrence of the
majority of the airport advisory board shall be necessary to render a decision
of the board or enact any rule.
(Ord. 1397.02.18 § 2, 2022; Ord. 1397.02.07 § 2 (part), 2001)
2.28.050 Duties.
   It shall be the duty of the airport advisory board to make recommendations
to the City Council regarding the following matters:
   A.   The improvement, equipping, maintenance and operation of the municipal
airports;
   B.   The establishment, operation and conduct of aeronautical activities and
airport support services carried on by the city or in connection with the
municipal airports; and
   C.   Regulations, fees and charges for the operation of the municipal
airports.
(Ord. 1397.02.07 § 2 (part), 2001)
2.28.060 Additional duties.
   The airport advisory board shall review and make recommendations to the City
Council regarding proposed sales of city owned land at the Donovan M. Kramer
Senior Industrial Park, if the prospective buyer intends to engage in
aeronautical activities on the purchased property.
(Ord. 1397.02.07 § 2 (part), 2001)
Chapter 2.30
COMMUNITY SERVICES ADVISORY BOARD
Sections:
2.30.010   Establishment.
2.30.020   Terms of office.
2.30.030   Officers.
2.30.040   Powers and duties generally.
2.30.010 Establishment.
   There is hereby established a community services advisory board. The board
shall be composed of seven regular members. The seven regular members shall be
appointed by the mayor, with the approval of the City Council.
(Ord. 1397.02.20 § 2 (part), 2022)
2.30.020 Terms of office.
   The term of office for the regular members of the board shall be for three
years, except that the first member of the board as appointed by the mayor
shall include three members appointed for a term to expire in 2023, two members
for a term to expire in 2024, and two members for a term to expire in 2025.
Upon expiration of the initial terms and thereafter, their successors shall
serve a full three year term.
(Ord. 1397.02.20 § 2 (part), 2022)
2.30.030 Officers.
   At the first meeting of the board, the board shall elect its own officers.
For this first meeting of the board, the chairperson of the repealed parks and
recreation board, or the vice-chair if the chairperson is not available, will
run the meeting. Thereafter, the board shall elect its officers at the first
meeting following the first of June each year. The community services director,
or his/her duly authorized representative, shall act as secretary of the board
but shall not be allowed to vote. No officer elected by the board shall serve
in the same capacity for more than two consecutive one-year terms.
(Ord. 1397.02.20 § 2 (part), 2022)
2.30.040 Powers and duties generally.
   The powers and duties of the community services advisory board shall be:
   A.   To adopt such rules of procedure as are required for the faithful
performance of its duties.
   B.   To provide that four members shall constitute a quorum, and that the
affirmative vote of the majority of members present shall be required for
passage of any matter before the board.
   C.   To consult with the community services director on the policies, rules,
and regulations relating to the operation, use, care and maintenance of areas
and structures owned, leased or otherwise acquired by the City of Casa Grande
for use in the community services department including any park, trail,
library, golf course, or recreation facility.
   D.   To assist the community services director in the development of a
continuing plan for the city's park system, trail system, library system, golf
operation, recreational programs or other amenities within the community
services department. The city manger, through the community services director,
shall, from time to time, send such plans and programs to the board for its
review. The results of such reviews shall be forwarded to the City Council.
   E.   To advise the community services director in establishing general
priorities at budget time for those items, other than administrative functions,
relating to areas in the community services department.
   F.   To advise the community services director on community needs relating
to the services offered within the community services department. This could
include special events, parks, trails, recreation, aquatics, golf, library,
senior services, facilities, or any other area included within the community
services department now or in the future.
   G.   To advise City Council on the acceptance and/or acquisition by gift,
bequest, or sale of any real or personal property of every kind, nature and
description in the name of the City of Casa Grande, for park and/or
recreational purposes.
(Ord. 1397.02.20 § 2 (part), 2022)
Chapter 2.32
CIVIL DEFENSE
Sections:
2.32.010   Purpose of provisions.
2.32.020   Definitions.
2.32.030   Council created.
2.32.040   Powers and duties.
2.32.050   Office of director created.
2.32.060   Director—Duties and authority.
2.32.070   Membership.
2.32.080   Membership—Oath required.
2.32.090   Unauthorized activities prohibited.
2.32.100   Lights public nuisance when.
2.32.110   Conflicting regulations suspended.
2.32.120   State and federal authority.
2.32.130   Hold harmless agreement.
2.32.140   Expenditures.
2.32.010 Purpose of provisions.
   The declared purposes of this chapter are to provide for the preparation and
carrying out of plans for the civil defense of persons and property within the
city in the event of a disaster and to provide for the coordination of the
civil defense and disaster functions of the city with all other public agencies
and affected private persons, corporations and organizations.
(Prior code § 7-1-2)
2.32.020 Definitions.
   “Civil defense” means preparation for and carrying out of emergency
functions, other than functions for which military forces or other federal
agencies are primarily responsible, and to prevent, minimize and repair injury
and damage resulting from disasters.
   “Disaster” means actual or threatened enemy attack, sabotage, extraordinary
fire, flood, storm, epidemic, riot, earthquake or other similar public calamity
or disaster.
(Prior code § 7-1-1)
2.32.030 Council created.
   There is created the Casa Grande municipal civil defense council, which
shall consist of all members of the council. The mayor shall serve as the
chairman.
(Prior code § 7-2-1)
2.32.040 Powers and duties.
   The powers and duties of the Casa Grande municipal civil defense council
shall include the adoption of a civil defense plan for the city, the drafting
and recommendation of any and all mutual aid plans and agreements which are
deemed essential for the implementation of the civil defense plan and the
continued promotion of an orderly and effective program of civil defense. The
civil defense council shall meet upon the call of the chairman and shall have
the authority to appoint and remove a director of civil defense with the duties
and authority as hereinabove set forth.
(Prior code § 7-2-2)
2.32.050 Office of director created.
   The office of director of civil defense is created with the director having
the authority to request that the council declare the existence of an
emergency. The city manager shall serve as the director of civil defense. In
any event, if the Governor of the state declares an emergency in accordance
with Section 26- 342, Arizona Revised Statutes, then any emergency plans of the
city shall immediately become effective and the Casa Grande civil defense
organization shall take immediate action.
(Prior code § 7-3-1)
2.32.060 Director—Duties and authority.
   The duties and responsibility of the director of civil defense shall include
the following:
   A.   The promotion, control and direction of the training of civil defense
personnel and the public;
   B.   The organization, administration and the execution of all civil defense
plans adopted by the city and the appointment and training of section leaders
or aids;
   C.   The maintenance of necessary liaison with other civil defense
organizations;
   D.   The marshaling, in the event of an emergency or disaster, of all
necessary personnel, equipment or supplies available in the city;
   E.   The issuing of all necessary proclamations as to the existence of an
emergency and the immediate operational effectiveness of the civil defense
plan;
   F.   The issuance of reasonable rules and regulations which are necessary
for the protection of life and property in the city;
   G.   The negotiation and drafting of mutual aid agreements and the execution
of all those entered into by the city;
   H.   The procurement and supervision of all necessary supplies and
equipment, including an acceptance of private contributions;
   I.   The recommendation of agreements for the use of private property for
air raid shelters and other civil defense purposes;
   J.   The civil defense director shall work under the direction of and the
pleasure of the council.
(Prior code § 7-3-2)
2.32.070 Membership.
   The civil defense organization of the city shall be known as the “Casa
Grande Civil Defense Organization” and shall consist of the officers and
employees of the city and all volunteers. The functions and duties shall be
designated by resolution and shall provide for the divisions and categories
necessary for the operation of any and all disaster work. Insofar as possible,
such an organization shall conform to the regulations and recommendations of
the federal government and the state of Arizona.
(Prior code Art. 7-4)
2.32.080 Membership—Oath required.
   Each person serving as a member of the Casa Grande civil defense
organization in any capacity, prior to assuming his duty or duties, shall take
an oath which shall be substantially as follows:
STATE OF ARIZONA
JOINT COUNCIL OF CIVILIAN
DEFENSE LOYALTY OATH
I,                  , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and
defend the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State
of Arizona against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I will bear true
faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely, without
any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; that I will well and safely
discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter.
I do further swear (or affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the Government
of the United States or of this State by force or violence; and that during
such time as I am a member of the National Civilian Defense of the United
States I will not advocate or become a member of any political party or
organization that advocates the overthrow of the Government of the United
States by force or violence.
                                                     
WITNESS:
                                                    
Subscribed and sworn to before me this                                      
day of                   , 19  , by
                                                                                        
Notary Public
My commission expires:
                                                  
(Prior code Art. 7-5)
2.32.090 Unauthorized activities prohibited.
   It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to operate a siren or other
device so as to simulate a blackout signal or air raid or the termination of a
blackout or air raid.
(Prior code § 7-6-1)
2.32.100 Lights public nuisance when.
   Any light displayed contrary to any rule, order or regulation promulgated
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter constitutes a public nuisance and
when deemed necessary in order to protect life or property during blackout or
raids, the police are authorized and directed to enter upon any premises with
the city using reasonable force and extinguish lights or take other necessary
action to make effective any order, rule or regulation promulgated under the
authority conferred by this chapter.
(Prior code § 7-6- 2)
2.32.110 Conflicting regulations suspended.
   At all times when the orders, rules and regulations made and promulgated
pursuant to this chapter shall be in effect, they shall supersede all existing
orders, rules and regulations insofar as the latter may be inconsistent
therewith.
(Prior code Art. 7-7)
2.32.120 State and federal authority.
   This chapter shall not be construed as to conflict with any state or federal
statute or with any military or naval order, rule or regulation.
(Prior code Art. 7-8)
2.32.130 Hold harmless agreement.
   The enactment of this chapter constitutes an exercise by the city of its
governmental functions for the protection of the public peace, health and
safety, and neither the city, the agents and representatives of the city nor
any individual, receiver, firm, partnership, corporation, association, or
trustee, nor any of the agents thereof, in good faith carrying out, complying
with or attempting to comply with, any order, rule or regulation promulgated
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be liable for any damage
sustained to person or property as the result of the activity. Any person
owning or controlling real estate or other premises who voluntarily and without
compensation grants to the city a license or privilege, or otherwise permits
the city to inspect, designate and use the whole or any part of or parts of
such real estate or premises for the purpose of sheltering persons during an
actual, impending or practice enemy attack shall, together with his successors
in interest, if any, be not civilly liable for the death of, or injury to, any
person on or about such real estate or premises under such license, privilege
or other permission or for loss of, or damage to the property of such person.
(Prior code Art. 7-9)
2.32.140 Expenditures.
   No person shall have the right to expend any public funds of the city in
carrying out any civil defense activity authorized by this chapter without
prior and specific approval of the council; except that the council may budget
money for civil defense activities and such funds shall be spent at the
direction of the director and with the approval of the council.
(Prior code Art. 7-10)
Chapter 2.36
BOARDS, COMMITTEES AND
COMMISSIONS GENERALLY
Sections:
2.36.010   Council authority.
2.36.020   Committee membership determined by council.
2.36.030   Removal of members.
2.36.040   Committees—Powers and duties designated by council.
2.36.050   Officer selection.
2.36.060   Compensation.
2.36.070   Meetings—Quorum—Records.
2.36.080   Rules and regulations to govern proceedings.
2.36.090   Financial matters—Council authority.
2.36.010 Council authority.
   A.   The council may create such boards, committees and commissions,
standing, or special, as it deems necessary. In addition, the council may
provide such aid and assistance from the administrative staff of the city to
any such board, committee or commission as may be necessary.
   B.   Any such boards, committees and commissions created by the council
shall be responsible to the council and, unless otherwise set forth in the
authorizing ordinance or resolution, shall be advisory to the council.
   C.   Whenever the word “committee” is used in this chapter, it may also be
construed to mean the words “board” or “commission.”
(Prior code § 3-1-1) (Ord. 1397.02.21 § 1, 2022)
2.36.020 Committee membership determined by council.
   A.   Each committee shall consist of as many members as may be provided by
the council; provided that, unless waived by the council, each member shall be
a resident of the city and appointed by the mayor and council.
   B.   The terms of office for members of each committee shall be as provided
by the council.
   C.   All members shall serve until their successors are duly appointed and
qualified. A vacancy in office during a term shall be filled by the mayor, with
council approval, for the unexpired term.
   D.   The mayor, with approval of council, may appoint a youth member under
the age of eighteen to serve as an extra member on any committee; provided that
such member shall have no voting privileges, may not participate in any quasi-
judicial matters, and shall not be counted for purposes of calculating a quorum
or determining the number of votes needed to pass any matter before the
committee. The youth member shall otherwise be permitted to participate with
all other privileges and duties of a committee member.
(Prior code § 3-1-2) (Ord. 1397.02.21 §§ 2, 3, 2022)
2.36.030 Removal of members.
   Except when prohibited by state statute, the mayor shall have the right and
power to remove any committee member, with or without cause, upon approval by
the council. It shall be a cause for removal if any committee member shall have
two or more consecutive unexcused absences from regular meetings. Such absences
shall be reported to the council by the chairman of the committee. The
committee, with the approval of the council, may establish additional causes
for the removal of members in its rules of procedure, and the same shall be
valid causes for removal of a member by the council when so reported to the
council by the chairman of the committee.
(Prior code § 3-1-3) (Ord. 1397.02.21 § 4, 2022)
2.36.040 Committees—Powers and duties designated by council.
   The function of each committee shall be determined by the council, or when
appropriate, by state law. Each committee shall be responsible for such matters
as may be referred to it by the council, and shall meet at such times as may be
necessary to perform its duties as required by state law or such duties as the
council may refer to such committee.
(Prior code § 3-1-4)
2.36.050 Officer selection.
   The officers of any committee created under the authority provided by this
chapter shall be selected by the committee; provided that the mayor, with
approval of the council, may remove any officer so selected. If an officer is
removed, that person is no longer eligible to serve as an officer of the
committee during his or her term.
(Prior code § 3-2-1) (Ord. 1397.02.21 § 5, 2022)
2.36.060 Compensation.
   Committee members shall serve without compensation; provided, that the
committee members may be reimbursed for actual and necessary expense for
committee duties, as provided by the council.
(Prior code § 3-2-2)
2.36.070 Meetings—Quorum—Records.
   A majority of the members of the committee shall constitute a quorum at any
meeting unless a greater or lesser quorum is approved by city council. Each
committee shall cause minutes to be kept of the proceedings, showing the vote
of each member upon every question, or if absent and failing to vote,
indicating that fact, and shall keep records of the committee's examinations or
other official actions. The minutes of the committee and all other records of
actions taken shall be filed forthwith, upon approval by the committee, in the
office of the clerk and the same shall be public record.
(Prior code § 3-2-3) (Ord. 1397.02.21 § 6, 2022)
2.36.080 Rules and regulations to govern proceedings.
   The committee shall have the authority by and with written approval of the
council to make all necessary rules and regulations governing its proceedings.
(Prior code § 3-2-4)
2.36.090 Financial matters—Council authority.
   A.   Unless otherwise budgeted for and approved by the council, no committee
shall incur debts, make any purchases or enter into any contracts binding the
city.
   B.   All money received by any committee shall be deposited with the city
treasurer or finance director.
(Prior code § 3-2-5) (Ord. 1397.02.21 § 7, 2022)
Chapter 2.40
PERSONNEL SYSTEM
Sections:
2.40.010   Creation and scope of merit system.
2.40.020   Conditions of employment.
2.40.030   Rules and regulations.
2.40.040   Use of influence to solicit political contribution prohibited.
2.40.010 Creation and scope of merit system.
   There is adopted a merit system for the employees of the city, the
provisions of which shall apply to all employees of the city except elected
officials; officers of the city appointed by the council; attorneys within the
office of the city attorney; persons engaged under contract to supply expert,
professional or technical services; temporary employees; volunteer firemen; and
volunteer personnel who receive no regular compensation from the city.
(Ord. 1397.02.03 § 1, 1997; prior code § 4-4-1)
2.40.020 Conditions of employment.
   The appointment, promotion and tenure of every employee shall be conditioned
solely on the merit and fitness and the satisfactory performance of the duties
and responsibilities assigned. No employee or applicant for employment shall be
discriminated against on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, or political
affiliation.
(Prior code § 4-4-2)
2.40.030 Rules and regulations.
   The council may adopt by resolution rules and regulations to give effect to
this section, which may be modified or changed from time to time, but such
rules and regulations shall follow the generally accepted principles of good
personnel administration.
(Prior code § 4-4-3)
2.40.040 Use of influence to solicit political contribution prohibited.
   No officer, official or employee of the city shall use any influence or
pressure upon any employee to obtain any assessment or contribution of money or
time, either direct or indirect, for any political campaign or personal gain.
(Prior code § 4-4-4)
Title 3
REVENUE AND FINANCE
Chapters:
3.04   Procurement Code
3.08   Privilege License Tax
3.12   Collection Charges and Penalties
Chapter 3.04
PROCUREMENT CODE
Sections:
  
3.04.010   Purpose and scope.
  
3.04.020   Purchasing officer; duties.
  
3.04.030   Council approval; when required.
  
3.04.040   Purchases in general; bids.
  
3.04.050   Promotion of maximum practicable competition.
  
3.04.060   Exemptions from bidding requirements.
  
3.04.070   Procedure for emergency purchases.
  
3.04.080   State bid requirements.
  
3.04.090   Construction projects.
  
3.04.100   Bidding notice.
  
3.04.110   Pre-bid conferences and site inspection.
  
3.04.120   Correction or withdrawal of bids.
  
3.04.130   Receipt of bids or proposals.
  
3.04.140   Acceptance and evaluation of bids or proposals.
  
3.04.150   Preparation of bid or proposal documents.
  
3.04.160   Cancellation of solicitations; rejection of bids.
  
3.04.170   Bid protest.
  
3.04.180   Disqualification of bidders and suppliers.
  
3.04.190   Procurement contracts.
  
3.04.200   Procurement records; public inspection.
  
3.04.210   Bonds and other security and insurance requirements.
  
3.04.220   Right to inspect plant and audit records.
  
3.04.230   Intergovernmental relations.
  
3.04.240   Failure to perform.
  
3.04.250   Disposition of personal property of the city.
  
3.04.260   Ethics.
3.04.010 Purpose and scope.
   The purpose of this article is to provide oversight and accountability in
the use of city resources. This article shall govern the purchase of any goods
or services for or on behalf of the city, including but not limited to, the
purchase of equipment, material, supplies, services and public improvements.
This code should also provide for the fair and equitable treatment of all
persons involved in the purchasing process, in order to obtain the highest
possible value in exchange for public funds, and to safeguard the quality and
integrity of the purchasing system.
(Ord. 1397.03.08 § 2 (part), 2007)
3.04.020 Purchasing officer; duties.
   A.   The city manager is appointed as the purchasing officer for the city.
   B.   The purchasing officer may delegate duties and responsibilities under
this chapter to one or more of the directors of various departments as
necessary to effectuate the purposes of this chapter when necessary.
   C.   The purchasing officer shall have general supervision, responsibility
and authority to:
   1.   Procure, contract for and execute agreements in any amount less than
twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) without prior council approval, for
supplies and services, including rentals, service agreements, and leases of
personal property needed by any city governmental unit, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and any additional purchasing policies that may be
established by council;
   2.   Promulgate regulations and procedures for the implementation of the
provisions of this chapter;
   3.   Prepare and submit to council any proposed amendments to this chapter;
   4.   Have the authority to suspend or debar vendors;
   5.   Execute contracts for the purchase of supplies, materials, services and
improvements; and
   6.   Centralize procurement, consistent with this code, by which materials,
supplies, equipment and contractual services for all city governmental units
are purchased.
(Ord. 1397.03.08 § 2 (part), 2007)
3.04.030 Council approval; when required.
   Council approval for purchases shall be required in the following
circumstances:
   A.   When prior approval is required by this code;
   B.   When the purchase of an item costing greater than two thousand five
hundred dollars ($2,500) but less than twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000)
is not provided in the budget as adopted; and
   C.   For the expenditure of funds in an amount in excess of twenty-five
thousand dollars ($25,000).
(Ord. 1397.03.08 § 2 (part), 2007)
3.04.040 Purchases in general; bids.
   All purchases made must be consistent with this article, and with any
applicable procedures and policies issued by the city manager.
   A.   Purchases up to $4,999.99. Whenever the contemplated purchase is four
thousand, nine hundred ninety-nine dollars and ninety-nine cents ($4,999.99) or
less, no written or verbal quote is required.
   B.   Reserved to preserve numbering and for possible future use.
   C.   Purchases from $5,000 to $25,000 Inclusive. Whenever any contemplated
purchase is for the sum of at least five thousand dollars ($5,000) but not more
than twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000), the purchasing officer shall
obtain at least three written quotes on vendor's letterhead. The purchase or
contract shall be awarded to the lowest most responsive vendor who submits a
quote.
   D.   Purchases in Excess of $25,000. Whenever the contemplated purchase is
for a sum in excess of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) in one
transaction, the purchasing officer shall, without necessity of council
approval, advertise for bids, according to the procedures provided in this
article and any applicable policy or procedure issued by the purchasing
officer. Prior to award, the mayor and city council must approve any bid or
proposal in excess of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000).
   E.   Purchases in Excess of $50,000. Whenever the contemplated purchase is
for a sum in excess of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) in one transaction or
in aggregate, the purchasing officer shall, without the necessity of council
approval, advertise for bids, according to the procedures provided in this
article and any applicable policy or procedure issued by the purchasing
officer. The mayor and city council must approve the award of any bid or
proposal in excess of fifty thousand ($50,000) through the passage of an
ordinance. Notwithstanding the prior provisions of this paragraph, council may
adopt an ordinance that allows for a specified purchase, project, or group of
projects or purchases (such as the city’s annual capital improvement plan) that
are anticipated to each be in excess of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000), to be
approved, on individual basis, by the passage of a resolution instead of
ordinance.
   F.   Alternative Procedures Allowed. Alternative delivery methods, such as
design bid build, construction manager at risk, design build, and job order
contracting, may be utilized for applicable purchases. These purchases must be
in compliance with Arizona Revised Statutes.
(Ord. 1397.03.09 § 1, 2021; Ord. 1397.03.08 § 2 (part), 2007)
3.04.050 Promotion of maximum practicable competition.
   A.   Maximum Competition Encouraged. All specifications for bids or
proposals shall seek to promote overall economy for the purposes intended and
encourage competition in satisfying the city's needs. Specifications shall not
be unduly restrictive.
   1.   To the extent practicable and unless otherwise permitted by this
section, all specifications shall describe the city's requirements in a manner
that does not unnecessarily exclude a specific material, service or
construction item.
   2.   To the extent practicable, the city shall use accepted commercial
specifications and shall procure standard commercial materials and, absent
significant justification, avoid proprietary specifications.
   B.   Brand Name or Approved Alternate. Proprietary or brand name
specifications shall not be used unless the purchasing officer determines, in
writing, that such specifications are required by demonstrable technological
justification, that it is not practicable or advantageous to use a less
restrictive specification, that the use of such a specification is in the best
interests of the city, and if the solicitation provides for the submission of
equivalent products.
   1.   A brand name or approved alternate specification shall designate as
many different brands as are practicable as “approved alternate” references.
   2.   A brand name or approved alternate specification shall include a
description of the particular design, functional or performance characteristics
that are required, unless the purchasing officer determines, in writing, that
the essential characteristics of the brand names designated in the
specifications are commonly known.
   3.   A solicitation that uses a brand name or approved alternate
specification shall explain that the use of a brand name is for the purpose of
describing the standard of quality, performance, and characteristics desired
and is not intended to limit or restrict competition. The solicitation shall
state that products substantially equivalent to those brands designated shall
qualify for consideration.
   C.   Qualified Products List.
   1.   A qualified products list may be prepared and utilized, if the
purchasing officer determines, in writing, that testing or examinations of the
material or construction items prior to the issuance of the solicitation is
desirable or necessary in order to best satisfy the city's requirements.
   2.   As many potential suppliers as practicable shall be solicited to submit
products for testing and examination, to determine acceptability for inclusion
on a qualified products list.
   3.   Any potential supplier, even though not solicited, may offer its
products for consideration in accordance with the schedule or procedure
established for this purpose.
   4.   The qualified products list shall not be modified after the
solicitation is issued.
(Ord. 1397.03.08 § 2 (part), 2007)
3.04.060 Exemptions from bidding requirements.
   The bidding requirements in this chapter shall not apply in the following
instances:
   A.   An emergency purchase permitted pursuant to Section
3.04.070;
   B.   A purchase where the state, another city or town, a school district or
another governmental agency has procured a contract through properly conducted
public bidding, and permits the city to participate in such contract; provided
such bidding meets the requirements of Subsection
3.04.230.B.;
   C.   A purchase from the United States or an agency thereof, the state or an
agency thereof, or any county or local government in this state;
   D.   An agreement for professional or technical services, although the
purchasing officer may require the submission of proposals prior to engaging
such services;
   E.   This chapter shall not be construed to prohibit the purchase of
supplies, materials, equipment, services and improvements when circumstances
render the bidding procedures impractical.
   1.   Examples of these situations are equipment repairs in which substantial
work must be performed before a precise cost estimate can be made, purchase of
equipment at public auction and public bids, and the purchase of used
equipment.
   2.   The purchasing officer shall establish regulations limiting and
defining the conditions under which the exemptions provided herein shall apply.
(Ord. 1397.03.08 § 2 (part), 2007)
3.04.070 Procedure for emergency purchases.
   A.   In case of any emergency requiring immediate purchases of supplies or
services, when there is an urgent necessity to do so for the preservation of
life, health or property, the rules and regulations set forth in this chapter
shall not apply.
   B.   Such emergency procurements shall be made with such competition as is
practical under the circumstances, and shall be limited to those goods and
services necessary to satisfy the emergency need.
   C.   In such circumstances, the department head shall provide a written
report of the procurement to the city manager, or his or her designee,
including a description of the emergency and the basis for selection of the
particular contractor.
   D.   In any event that such emergency action is necessary and the
procurement cost is greater than twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) in any
one transaction, the city manager shall make a full and complete report to the
city council at the next regularly scheduled meeting.
(Ord. 1397.03.08 § 2 (part), 2007)
3.04.080 State bid requirements.
   In addition to the public bidding requirements set forth herein, purchases
by or on behalf of the city shall conform to applicable state law.
(Ord. 1397.03.08 § 2 (part), 2007)
3.04.090 Construction projects.
   A.   Provided the cost of the project exceeds the statutorily established
amount, the procurement of both horizontal and vertical construction projects
shall be governed by state law. The purchasing officer shall consult the
Arizona Revised Statutes when procuring goods and services related to
construction.
   B.   When the cost of a construction project falls below the statutorily
established amount, the project shall be procured pursuant to the provisions of
this code.
(Ord. 1397.03.08 § 2 (part), 2007)
3.04.100 Bidding notice.
   The purchasing officer shall follow the procedures set forth in this section
for all purchases and contracts subject to the bidding process.
   A.   A notice of solicitation for sealed bids or proposals shall state the
date, time and place of opening, and the place and time period within which
bids shall be submitted.
   1.   Adequate public notice shall be given at least fifteen calendar days
prior to the date set forth for opening of bids or proposals, unless otherwise
approved by the purchasing officer and specified in bid documents.
   2.   The city clerk's office will be responsible for the advertisement of
all formal competitive bids or proposals.
   B.   The notice shall state with particularity the goods or services
required, and shall state the place where specifications may be examined.
   C.   The notice shall require that bids be submitted in a sealed envelope,
clearly identified on its front as a bid. Any bid not received within the time
period allowed shall be rejected.
   D.   All bids shall be opened in the public at the time and place specified,
and a tabulation of all bids received shall be posted in city hall for public
inspection.
   E.   The purchasing officer shall have the right to reject any and all bids
and parts of bids, and/or to re-advertise or re-solicit bids. A bidder may
appeal the decision to reject a bid to the city council.
   F.   The purchasing officer shall report the bid results to the council, and
shall advise the council on the need for the goods or services and the
advantages or disadvantages of the proposed contracts and bid proposals.
(Ord. 1397.03.08 § 2 (part), 2007)
3.04.110 Pre-bid conferences and site inspection.
   When deemed necessary for an adequate understanding of applicable
requirements, the purchasing officer is authorized to require bidders or
proposers to attend pre-bid conferences or site inspections prior to the time
and date set for receipt of bids or proposals, and to consider bidders or
proposers not in attendance to be nonresponsive.
(Ord. 1397.03.08 § 2 (part), 2007) 
3.04.120 Correction or withdrawal of bids.
   A.   Correction or Withdrawal Before Opening. Bids or proposals that contain
errors or mistakes discovered by the bidder may be modified or withdrawn prior
to the date and time set for opening of bids, provided the bidder establishes
all of the following to the reasonable satisfaction of the purchasing officer:
   1.   A mistake was made in the preparation of the bid;
   2.   The bidder gave written notice of the mistake, and the manner in which
it occurred, to the purchasing officer prior to bid opening;
   3.   The mistake caused the price to be materially different than the bidder
intended it to be;
   4.   The mistake was made in filling out the bid, and not due to error in
judgment or to carelessness in inspecting the site of the work, or in reading
the bid documents.
   B.   Correction After Opening. A bidder may not change its bid or proposal
after the date and time set for receipt of bids.
   C.   Withdrawal After Opening.
   1.   If deemed to be in the best interest of the city, the purchasing
officer may allow the apparent prevailing bidder to withdraw its bid and award
a contract to the next lowest, most responsive, bidder.
   2.   In the event that bid security was required and provided by the
apparent prevailing bidder, the amount of the that bidder's bid security shall
be applied to the difference between that bid and the next lowest bid, and the
surplus, if any, shall be returned to the apparent prevailing bidder or that
bidder's surety, as applicable.
(Ord. 1397.03.08 § 2 (part), 2007)
3.04.130 Receipt of bids or proposals.
   A.   Bids and proposals submitted in response to informal competitive bids
and proposal solicitations shall be in writing, unless otherwise specified in
bid documents or approved by the purchasing officer or designee. Bids or
proposals received prior to the date and time designated in the solicitation
documents shall be retained in confidence by the purchasing officer until the
date and time set for the receipt of bids or proposals.
   B.   Sealed bids and proposals submitted in response to formal competitive
bid or proposal solicitations must be delivered to the city clerk's office
prior to the time and date designated in the bid or proposal documents.
   C.   Formal competitive bids or proposals, timely received, will be publicly
opened by the city clerk in the presence of one or more witnesses at the
location designated in the notice. If members of the public are present, the
names of those submitting bids and the aggregate bid pricing shall be read
aloud during the bid opening process, or the name of the proposer shall be read
aloud during the proposal opening process.
   D.   Formal competitive bids or proposals received after the deadline for
receipt shall not be accepted and shall be returned to the bidder unopened.
   1.   The city clerk's office shall submit written notification to the
bidder, stating what the deadline was, when the bid or proposal was actually
received, and that it is being returned because it was received too late.
   2.   If necessary, the bid or proposal may be opened for identification
purposes.
(Ord. 1397.03.08 § 2 (part), 2007)
3.04.140 Acceptance and evaluation of bids or proposals.
   A.   Bids or proposals shall be unconditionally accepted without alteration
or correction, except as authorized in this chapter.
   1.   For all purposes of this chapter, bids and proposals shall be evaluated
based on the criteria set forth in the invitation, which may include
inspection, testing, quality, workmanship, delivery, local taxes paid by
vendors, and suitability for a particular purpose.
   2.   Requests for proposals shall state the relative importance of price and
other evaluation factors.
   3.   In considering bids or proposals, the city may waive, if it wishes to
do so, minor defects or irregularities in the bids or proposals, provided that
the discrepancy does not affect the bid or proposal amount, or give the bidder
or proposer a material advantage over others.
   B.   If no bids or proposals are received in response to a competitive
solicitation, or if none of the bids or proposals meet the requirements as
specified in the solicitation document, the purchasing officer may reissue the
solicitation, may cease the procurement or, if deemed in the best interest of
the city, may authorize the procurement without further compliance with
competitive bidding requirements (subject to council approval, if otherwise
required pursuant to Section
3.04.040). An authorization to procure without bidding shall be documented and
become part of the procurement records available for public inspection.
   C.   In the event that a single bid or proposal is received, the purchasing
officer shall have the authority to require the bidder or proposer to submit
cost or pricing data to assist in determining if the price is reasonable.
   1.   If it is determined that the bid price is not reasonable, the
purchasing officer may either reject the bid or attempt to negotiate a
reasonable price with the bidder or proposer, subject to the city's acceptance.
   2.   Negotiation shall be completed within a reasonable time, as determined
or specified by the city.
   3.   Should such negotiation fail, the bid may be rejected.
   D.   In the event that an identical price is received from two or more
responsive and responsible bidders, and, in the judgment of the purchasing
officer, the public interest will not be served by re-advertising for bids, the
purchasing officer may determine the successful bidder by a coin flip between
the tie bidders in public at a date and time set by the purchasing officer,
with the purchasing officer determining the assignment of heads or tails for
the purpose of the flip.
(Ord. 1397.03.08 § 2 (part), 2007)
3.04.150 Preparation of bid or proposal documents.
   Any individual, firm, or vendor who has been compensated for the preparation
or assistance in the preparation of bid or proposal documents is ineligible to
submit a bid or proposal for the provision of the goods or the performance of
the services so specified.
(Ord. 1397.03.08 § 2 (part), 2007)
3.04.160 Cancellation of solicitations; rejection of bids.
   A.   Cancellation of Solicitations. The purchasing officer may cancel
competitive bid or proposal solicitations before the date and time set for
receipt of bids or proposals, upon a written determination that such action is
in the city's best interest for, including but not limited to, any of the
following reasons:
   1.   The city no longer requires the procurement;
   2.   The city no longer can reasonably expect to fund the procurement, as
determined by the city manager or city council;
   3.   Proposed amendments to the solicitation would be of such magnitude that
a new solicitation is desirable.
   B.    Records. The fact that a solicitation was cancelled or bid or proposal
rejected shall be made part of the procurement records.
(Ord. 1397.03.08 § 2 (part), 2007)
3.04.170 Bid protest.
   A.   Not more than three business days following the date on which the act
or error complained of occurred, a bidder may protest the handling of a bid or
awarding of a contract by filing written notice with the purchasing officer
stating the grounds for the protest.
   B.   The city manager shall hold a hearing at which the protesting bidder
may appear and present evidence. Hearings shall be as informal as may be
reasonable and appropriate under the circumstances.
   C.   If the protesting bidder establishes by clear and convincing evidence
that the city's handling of a bid or award of contract violated this code, the
city manager shall grant the protest.
   1.   If the protest is granted, the damages recoverable by the protesting
bidder shall not exceed the reasonable cost of preparing the bid.
   2.   In no event will the award of bid be changed to the protesting bidder.
(Ord. 1397.03.08 § 2 (part), 2007)
3.04.180 Disqualification of bidders and suppliers.
   A.   Grounds. The purchasing officer may disqualify a person or entity from
selling or renting supplies, goods or services to the city, if it is determined
that any of the following circumstances apply:
   1.   The person has committed fraud or intentional misrepresentation in
procuring or performing a contract with the city, or in application for payment
from the city, within the last ten years;
   2.   The person has materially breached or failed to perform a contract with
the city (whether or not the contract was terminated) within the last three
years;
   3.      The person was convicted of, or pled guilty to, a criminal offense
committed in the course of obtaining or performing a public contract within the
last ten years.
   B.   Notice.
   1.   The purchasing officer shall send written notice of any proposed
disqualification, including the grounds and the proposed period of
disqualification, to the person, by certified mail at the address contained in
the bid or proposal.
   2.   The notice shall advise the person of their right to request a hearing
on the matter before the purchasing officer.
   3.   If the person serves a written request to the purchasing officer not
more than the lesser of (a) ten days after the date on which the individual
received notice, or (b) thirty days after the notice was sent by certified
mail, the purchasing officer shall conduct a hearing.
   4.   Hearings shall be as informal as may be reasonable and appropriate
under the circumstances.
   5.   At the hearing, the person or entity shall have the opportunity to
present evidence concerning the reasons for disqualification.
   6.   If the purchasing officer determines after hearing that
disqualification is justified under this section, the purchasing officer shall
disqualify the person or entity.
   C.   Application. A disqualification pursuant to this section shall apply to
any disqualified person, and to all businesses or other entities in which the
disqualified person holds a substantial interest or serves in a management or
sales position.
(Ord. 1397.03.08 § 2 (part), 2007)
3.04.190 Procurement contracts.
   A.   Term.
   1.   The term of the contract and options for renewal shall be clearly
defined in the bid or proposal documents, and funds must be available for the
first fiscal period at the time of contracting.
   2.   Payment and performance obligations for succeeding fiscal periods shall
be subject to the availability and appropriation of funds by the city council.
   B.   Modification of Contracts.
   1.   Modifications of contracts shall be in writing, and shall be issued in
accordance with the terms of the original contract.
   2.   No verbal contract modifications shall be binding on the city.
   3.   Except as set forth in Subsection C. of this section, or unless
expressly permitted pursuant to the terms of the contract, any contract
modification which will result in an increase in the original contract amount
must be authorized in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Change Orders.
   1.   The city manager may authorize change orders to any contract if the
amount of the change order does not exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000)
cumulative.
   2.   The city council may authorize change order to any contract if an
amount of the change order exceeds ten thousand dollars ($10,000) cumulative.
(Ord. 1397.03.08 § 2 (part), 2007)
3.04.200 Procurement records; public inspection.
   A.   Records Maintenance.
   1.   The purchasing officer or city clerk's office shall maintain records
for each procurement, which shall include, at a minimum: the procurement
request; the bid or proposal documents for the procurement, if any; any and all
bids or proposals received; the basis on which contract award is made; and a
copy of any and all contracts awarded.
   2.   Such records shall be maintained for a period of time in compliance
with state law and the city's records retention schedule, and shall be
available for public inspection during normal city business hours.
   B.   Public Inspection.
   1.   Informal and formal competitive bids not involving competitive
negotiation shall be available for public inspection following the date and
time set for receipt of bids.
   2.   Informal and formal competitive proposals and formal competitive bids
involving competitive negotiation shall be available for public inspection
following contract award or rejection.
(Ord. 1397.03.08 § 2 (part), 2007)
3.04.210 Bonds and other security and insurance requirements.
   A.   When Required. The purchasing officer shall have the authority to
require bid, performance and payment security, or specific types and amounts of
insurance coverage for specific procurements, to the extent required by state
law or upon a determination that it is in the best interest of the city to do
so.
   B.   Bid Security.
   1.   Bid security, if required, shall be submitted with the bid and shall be
a certified check, cashier's check, or surety bond from a company authorized to
conduct business in the state and acceptable to the city.
   2.   If a bidder fails to submit the required bid security with the bid, the
bid shall be deemed nonresponsive.
   3.   After bids are opened, bid security is irrevocable for the period
specified in the invitation for bids.
   4.   If the successful bidder fails to execute the contract within the time
specified, the total amount of the bid security shall be forfeited to the city.
   5.   The security of an unsuccessful bidder shall be returned to the bidder
no later than sixty calendar days from the date of contract award.
   C.   Performance Security. Performance security, if required, shall be in
the form of a bond acceptable to the city, on a form approved by the city
attorney.
   D.   Insurance.
   1.   The successful bidder shall submit certificates of insurance and
endorsement forms, as applicable, as evidence that it has the type and amount
of insurance coverage required by the bid or proposal documents.
   2.   Such evidence shall be submitted to the city clerk's office promptly
upon request, and shall be issued by an insurer authorized to conduct business
in the state and acceptable to the city.
   E.   Indemnity for Infringement of Patents, Copyrights or Trademarks. Each
contractor must defend, hold harmless and fully indemnify the city and its
managers, employees and agents from all damages or claims for damages, costs or
expenses in law or equity that may arise for any infringement of the patent
right, copyright or trademark of any person, as a consequence of the use by the
city, or any of its officers, employees or agents, of goods supplied under a
contract.
(Ord. 1397.03.08 § 2 (part), 2007)
3.04.220 Right to inspect plant and audit records.
   A.   Right to Inspect Plant. The city may, at reasonable times and upon
reasonable notice, inspect any part of the plant, place of business, or work
site of a contractor or subcontractor, at any level of the organization
pertinent to the performance of any contract awarded or that may be awarded by
the city.
   B.   Right to Audit Records.
   1.   The city shall be entitled to audit the books and records of a
contractor or subcontractor, at any level of organization, to the extent that
such books, documents, papers and records are pertinent to the performance of
such contract or subcontract.
   2.   Any contractor or subcontractor shall make such records available for
audit by the city at reasonable times upon reasonable notice.
   3.   Any vendor who receives a contract, change order to a contract, or
modification to a contract, for which cost or pricing data is required, shall
maintain the financial data and accounting records that relate to the cost or
pricing data, for a three-year period from the date of the final payment under
contract, unless a shorter period is otherwise authorized in writing by the
finance director.
(Ord. 1397.03.08 § 2 (part), 2007)
3.04.230 Intergovernmental relations.
   A.   Cooperative Procurement. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
chapter, the purchasing officer may authorize the city's participation with one
or more other government agencies in a cooperative agreement for any
procurement; provided that at least one of the agencies has solicited bids
using methods similar to those set forth is this chapter, and which are not in
any violation of any state statutes.
   B.   Use of Another Entity's Contract. The purchasing officer may authorize
a procurement through the use of a contract initiated by another governmental
entity, provided all of the following conditions were met:
   1.   The original parties to the contract agree;
   2.   The contract was awarded or extended within twelve months of the date
of purchase;
   3.   The contract is for identical or nearly identical supplies, goods or
services; and
   4.   The contract resulted from a competitive bid using methods similar to
those set forth is this chapter, and not in any violation of any state
statutes.
   C.   Supply of Personnel. The requirements of this chapter shall not apply
to any agreement or arrangement when an end user provides personnel to, or
obtains personnel from, another government agency.
(Ord. 1397.03.08 § 2 (part), 2007)
3.04.240 Failure to perform. 
   A.   Supplies, Goods or Services.
   1.   When a vendor fails to deliver supplies, goods or services in the
quality, quantity, manner or time specified in the contract, such supplies,
goods or services may be obtained from any source.
   2.   If a greater price than that named in the contract or procurement is
paid for such supplies, goods or services, the excess price shall be charged to
and collected from the contractor or vendor, or the surety on the contractor's/
vendor's bond, if any.
   B.   Irresponsible Contractor.
   1.   Any vendor that fails to comply with the terms of its agreement with
the city may be declared an irresponsible contractor, after a due process
hearing by a hearing officer appointed by the city manager.
   2.   Hearings shall be as informal as may be reasonable and appropriate
under the circumstances.
   3.   Upon such determination the vendor shall not be permitted to act as a
contractor or vendor on any city contract for a period of up to five years, as
determined by the hearing officer.
   4.   Appeal of a determination that a vendor is irresponsible may be made to
the city council.
   5.   The contract may be cancelled at the discretion of the city and not in
lieu of other remedies provided by law, and in the event of cancellation, no
recovery by the vendor/contractor shall be had thereon.
(Ord. 1397.03.08 § 2 (part), 2007)
3.04.250 Disposition of personal property of the city.
   A.   Authority. The purchasing officer may sell or dispose of personal
property in any manner permitted or consistent with state law and the city
charter, including but not limited to, private sales, donations to other
entities providing a public benefit, or sale by public auction.
   B.   Property with No Salvage Value. Personal property with no salvage
value, as determined by the purchasing officer, shall be disposed of in a
manner that salvages recyclable components, if practical.
   C.   Records. The purchasing officer shall provide regular reports to the
city manager, which indicate the personal property disposed of, the method of
disposal, and the amounts recovered from its disposal; and shall maintain
records for public inspection relative to the disposal of personal property for
a period of time, in compliance with state law and the city's records retention
schedule.
   D.   Proceeds of Sale. Proceeds from the sale of personal property shall be
deposited into the appropriate city fund, as designated by the finance
director.
(Ord. 1397.03.08 § 2 (part), 2007)
3.04.260 Ethics. 
   A.   Statement of Policy.
   1.   City employees shall discharge their duties impartially so as to
reasonably assure fair competitive access to procurement opportunities by
responsible contractors.
   2.   Moreover, city employees shall conduct themselves in such a manner as
to foster public confidence in the integrity of procurement activities.
   B.   Conflict of Interest.
   1.   No city employee shall participate directly or indirectly in any
procurement if the employee has a conflict of interest as defined by ARS § 38-
503, as may be amended from time to time.
   2.   Purchases consistent with Arizona Revised Statutes may be made from
businesses owned by Mayor and/or council members.
   C.   Withdrawal from Participation. Upon discovery of an actual or potential
conflict of interest, an employee shall promptly withdraw from further
participation in the procurement, and notify the purchasing officer of the
withdrawal and the reasons therefor.
   D.   Gratuities.
   1.   No person shall offer, give or agree to give any city employee any
gratuity or offer of employment in connection with any procurement.
   2.   No city employee shall solicit, demand, accept or agree to accept from
any other person a gratuity or an offer of employment in connection with any
procurement.
(Ord. 1397.03.08 § 2 (part), 2007)
Chapter 3.08
PRIVILEGE LICENSE TAX
Sections:
3.08.010   Adopted.
3.08.020   Violation—Penalty.
3.08.010 Adopted.
   That certain document known as “The City Tax Code of the City of Casa
Grande, Arizona,” three copies of which are on file in the office of the city
clerk which document was made a public record by Resolution No. 2044 of the
city of Casa Grande, Arizona, is hereby referred to, adopted and made a part
hereof as if fully set out in this chapter.
(Ord. 1474 § 1, 1993)
3.08.020 Violation—Penalty.
   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of these amendments to
the tax code shall be guilty of a class one misdemeanor. Each day that a
violation continues shall be a separate offense punishable as herein above-
described.
(Ord. 1474 § 3, 1993)
Chapter 3.12
COLLECTION CHARGES AND PENALTIES
Sections:
3.12.010   Construction and exemptions.
3.12.020   Due and delinquency dates.
3.12.030   Penalties for delinquency.
3.12.040   Collection charges.
3.12.050   Charges for nonsufficient funds.
3.12.010 Construction and exemptions.
   A.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to alter or limit the
procedures for collection of fees, charges, fines or penalties which are
assessed and collected pursuant to state law, judicial decree or written
contract between the city and the party who owes money.
   B.   This chapter shall apply only to situations in which the city bills a
party and shall not be construed to limit the city's right to demand payment in
full prior to issuing building permits, releasing items sold at auction,
withholding participation in recreation programs, etc. until the full amount
has been paid.
(Ord. 1086.2 § 2 (part), 1988: prior code § 1-12-4)
3.12.020 Due and delinquency dates.
   Fees and charges payable to the city shall be due and payable when the
statement is rendered and shall be delinquent twenty calendar days thereafter.
(Ord. 1086.2 § 2 (part), 1988: prior code § 1-12-1)
3.12.030 Penalties for delinquency.
   If the total bill for any such charges is not paid the day after the date of
delinquency, a penalty of one and one-half percent of the unpaid balance, but
in no event less than fifty cents, shall be charged each month of delinquency
to be collected in addition to the amount then due.
(Ord. 1397.03.4 § 2, 1994)
3.12.040 Collection charges.
   The finance director shall have the authority to collect any and all
collection charges, court costs, and attorney's fees paid by the city in
connection with the collection of any fees arrears.
(Ord. 1086.2 § 2 (part), 1988: prior code § 1-12-3)
3.12.050 Charges for nonsufficient funds.
   The finance director may charge an individual or business an amount equal to
the bank charge plus a handling fee of $15.00, for any check returned to the
city because of nonsufficient funds or any other reason.
(Ord. 1397.03.06 § 1, 2002: Ord. 1086.3 § 2, 1991: Ord. 1086.1 § 1, 1987: prior
code § 1-11)
Title 4
FEES
Chapters:
4.01   Development Impact Fees
4.02   Reserved
4.05   Payback Fees
Chapter 4.01
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES
Sections:
  
4.01.010   Title.
  
4.01.020   Legislative intent and purpose.
  
4.01.030   Definitions.
  
4.01.040    Applicability.
  
4.01.050   Authority for development impact fees.
  
4.01.060    Administration of development impact fees.
  
4.01.070   Land use assumptions.
  
4.01.080    Infrastructure improvements plan.
  
4.01.090   Adoption and modification procedures
  
4.01.100   Timing for the renewal and updating of the infrastructure
improvements plan and the land use assumptions.
  
4.01.110   Collection of development impact fees.
  
4.01.120   Development impact fee credits and credit agreements.
  
4.01.130   Development agreements.
  
4.01.140   Appeals.
  
4.01.150   Refunds of development impact fees.
  
4.01.160   Oversight of development impact fee program.
  4.01.010   Title.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Development Impact Fee Ordinance of the
City of Casa Grande,” and may be cited as such. (Ord. 1397.04.34 § 3 (part),
2013)
4.01.020   Legislative intent and purpose. 
   This chapter is adopted for the purpose of promoting the health, safety and
general welfare of the residents of the city by:
   A.   Requiring new development to pay its proportionate share of the costs
incurred by the city that are associated with providing necessary public
services to new development.
   B.   Setting forth standards and procedures for creating and assessing
development impact fees consistent with the requirements of A.R.S. § 9-463.05,
including requirements pursuant to A.R.S. § 9-463.05, Subsection K, that, on or
before August 1, 2014, the city replace its development impact fees that were
adopted prior to January 1, 2012, with development impact fees adopted pursuant
to the requirements of A.R.S. § 9-463.05, as amended by the state legislature
in SB 1525, Fiftieth Legislature, First Regular Session.
   C.   Providing for the temporary continuation of certain development impact
fees adopted prior to January 1, 2012, where such development impact fees were
pledged to support financing or debt for a grandfathered facility as permitted
by A.R.S. § 9-463.05, Subsections K, R, and S, or as required to meet the
provisions of A.R.S. § 9-463.05, Subsection F, relating to developments
obtaining a final development plan prior to the implementation of a new fee
schedule.
   D.   Setting forth procedures for administering the development impact fee
program, including offsets, credits, and refunds of development impact fees.
All development impact fee assessments, offsets, credits, or refunds must be
administered in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   E.   Nothing in this chapter shall affect the city's zoning authority or its
authority to adopt or amend its General Plan, provided that planning and zoning
activities by the city may require amendments to development impact fees as
provided in Section
4.01.070 of this chapter.
   F.   The payment of development impact fees shall not entitle the applicant
to a building permit unless all other applicable land use, zoning, planning,
platting, subdivision or other related requirements, standards and conditions
have been met. Such other requirements, standards and conditions are
independent of the requirement for payment of a development impact fee.
   G.   Neither this ordinance nor the specific development fee schedules for
particular capital facilities shall affect, in any manner, the permissible use
of property, density/intensity of development, design and improvement standards
or other applicable standards or requirements of the city land development
regulations, which shall be operative and remain in full force and effect
without limitation. (Ord. 1397.04.34 § 3 (part), 2013)
4.01.030   Definitions.
   When used in this chapter, the terms listed below shall have the following
meanings unless the context requires otherwise. Singular terms shall include
their plural.
   “Applicant” means a person who applies to the city for a building permit.
   “Appurtenance” means any fixed machinery or equipment, structure or other
fixture, including integrated hardware, software or other components,
associated with a capital facility that are necessary or convenient to the
operation, use, or maintenance of a capital facility, but excluding replacement
of the same after initial installation.
   “Aquatic center” means a facility primarily designed to host non-
recreational competitive functions generally occurring within water, including
but not limited to, water polo games, swimming meets, and diving events. Such
facility may be indoors, outdoors, or any combination thereof, and includes all
necessary supporting amenities, including but not limited to, locker rooms,
offices, snack bars, bleacher seating, and shade structures.
   “Building permit” means any permit issued by the city that authorizes
vertical construction, increases square footage, authorizes changes to land
use, or provides for the addition of a residential or non-residential point of
demand to the wastewater system.
   “Capital facility” means an asset having a useful life of three or more
years that is a component of one or more categories of necessary public service
provided by the city. A “capital facility” may include any associated purchase
of real property, architectural and engineering services leading to the design
and construction of buildings and facilities, improvements to existing
facilities, improvements to or expansions of existing facilities, and
associated financing and professional services. Wherever used herein,
“infrastructure” shall have the same meaning as “capital facilities.”
   “Category of necessary public service” means “a category of necessary public
services” for which the city is authorized to assess development impact fees,
as further defined in Subsection
4.01.080.A.1 of this chapter.
   “Category of development” means a specific category of residential,
commercial, or industrial development against which a development impact fee is
calculated and assessed. The city assesses development impact fees against all
development utilizing the following categories of development:
   A.   Residential development on a per-dwelling-unit basis (which includes,
but is not limited to, single-family, multi-family, mobile home/park model, and
all other types of residential dwelling units); and
   B.   Non-residential development on a per-room or per-square-foot basis
(which includes, but is not limited to, commercial/retail development, office/
institutional, business park, light industrial, warehousing, manufacturing and
hotel).
   “City” means the City of Casa Grande, Arizona.
   “Credit” means a reduction in an assessed development impact fee resulting
from developer contributions to, payments for, construction of, or dedications
for capital facilities included in an infrastructure improvements plan pursuant
to Section
4.01.120 of this chapter (or as otherwise permitted by this chapter).
   “Credit agreement” means a written agreement between the city and the
developer(s) of subject development that allocates credits to the subject
development pursuant to Section
4.01.120 of this chapter. A “credit agreement” may be included as part of a
development agreement pursuant to Section
4.01.130 of this chapter.
   “Credit allocation” means a term used to describe when credits are
distributed to a particular development or parcel of land after execution of a
credit agreement, but are not yet issued.
   “Credit issuance” means a term used to describe when the amount of an
assessed development impact fee attributable to a particular development or
parcel of land is reduced by applying a credit allocation.
   “Developer” means an individual, group of individuals, partnership,
corporation, limited liability company, association, municipal corporation,
state agency, or other person or entity undertaking land development activity,
and their respective successors and assigns.
   “Development agreement” means an agreement prepared in accordance with the
requirements of Section
4.01.130 of this chapter, A.R.S. § 9-500.05, and any applicable requirements of
the City Code.
   “Direct benefit” means a benefit to a SMU resulting from a capital facility
that:
   A.   Addresses the need for a necessary public service created, in whole or
in part, by the SMU; and that
   B.   Meets either of the following criteria:
   1.    The capital facility is located in the immediate area of the SMU and
is needed in the immediate area of the SMU to maintain the level of service; or
   2.   The capital facility substitutes for, or eliminates the need for a
capital facility that would have otherwise have been needed in the immediate
area of the SMU to maintain the city's level of service.
   “Dwelling unit” means a house, apartment, townhome, condominium unit, mobile
home or trailer, park home, group of rooms, or single room occupied as separate
living quarters or, if vacant, intended for occupancy as separate living
quarters. “Dwelling unit” also includes spaces for recreational vehicles or
travel trailers, but does not include hotels designed primarily for transient
occupant purposes, nor shall it include rooms in hospitals or nursing homes.
   “Equipment” means machinery, tools, materials, and other supplies, not
including vehicles, which are needed by a capital facility to provide the level
of service specified by the infrastructure improvements plan, but excluding
replacement of the same after initial development of the capital facility.
   “Excluded library facility” means library facilities for which development
impact fees may not be charged pursuant to A.R.S. § 9-463.05, including that
portion of any library facility that exceeds ten thousand square feet, and
equipment, vehicles or appurtenances associated with library operations.
   “Excluded park facility” means park and recreational facilities for which
development impact fees may not be charged pursuant to A.R.S. § 9-463.05,
including amusement parks, aquariums, aquatic centers, auditoriums, arenas,
arts and cultural facilities, bandstand and orchestra facilities, bathhouses,
boathouses, clubhouses, community centers greater than three thousand square
feet in floor area, environmental education centers, equestrian facilities,
golf course facilities, greenhouses, lakes, museums, theme parks, water
reclamation or riparian areas, wetlands, or zoo facilities.
   “Fee report” means a written report developed pursuant to Section
4.01.090 of this chapter that identifies the methodology for calculating the
amount of each development impact fee, identifies the service area to which
each impact fee applies, explains or demonstrates the relationship between the
development impact fee to be assessed and assumptions and calculations set
forth in the infrastructure improvements plan, and which meets other
requirements set forth in A.R.S. § Section 9-463.05.
   “Financing or debt” means any debt, bond, note, loan, inter-fund loan, fund
transfer, or other debt service obligation used to finance the development or
expansion of a capital facility.
   “Fire protection” means a category of necessary public services that may
include fire stations, fire equipment, fire vehicles and all appurtenances for
fire stations. “Fire protection” does not include vehicles or equipment used to
provide administrative services, or helicopters or airplanes. “Fire protection”
does not include any facility that is used for training firefighters from more
than one station or substation.
   “General Plan” refers to the overall land-use plan for the city establishing
areas of the city for different purposes, zones and activities adopted by the
city pursuant to the provisions of A.R.S. Title 9, Chapter 4, Article 6, as
amended, and including any specific area plans adopted pursuant thereto.
   “Grandfathered facilities” means capital facilities provided through
financing or debt incurred before June 1, 2011, for which a development impact
fee has been pledged towards repayment as described in Subsection
4.01.050.C of this chapter.
   “Gross Impact Fee” means The total development impact fee to be assessed
against a subject development on a per-unit basis, prior to subtraction of any
credits.
   “Infrastructure improvements plan” means a document or series of documents
that meet the requirements set forth in A.R.S. § 9-463.05, including those
adopted pursuant to Section
4.01.090 of this chapter to cover any category or combination of categories of
necessary public services.
   “Land use assumptions” means projections of changes in land uses, densities,
intensities and population for a service area over a period of at least ten
years as specified in Section
4.01.070 of this chapter.
   “Level of service” means a quantitative and/or qualitative measure of a
necessary public service that is to be provided by the city to development in a
particular service area, defined in terms of the relationship between service
capacity and service demand, accessibility, response times, comfort or
convenience of use, or other similar measures or combinations of measures.
“Level of service” may be measured differently for different categories of
necessary public services, as identified in the applicable infrastructure
improvements plan.
   “Library facilities” means a category of necessary public services in which
literary, musical, artistic, or reference materials are kept (materials may be
kept in any form of media such as electronic, magnetic, or paper) for non-
commercial use by the public in a facility providing a direct benefit to
development. Libraries do not include excluded library facilities, although a
library may contain, provide access to, or otherwise support an excluded
library facility.
   “Necessary public services” shall have the meaning prescribed in A.R.S. § 9-
463.05, Subsection T, paragraph 7.
   “Offset” means an amount subtracted from the overall costs of providing
necessary public services to account for those capital components of
infrastructure or associated debt that have been or will be paid for by a
development through taxes, fees (except for development impact fees), and other
revenue sources, as determined by the city pursuant to Section
4.01.080 of this chapter.
   “Parks and recreational facilities” means a category of necessary public
services that may include, but is not limited to, parks, swimming pools and
related facilities and equipment located on real property not larger than
thirty acres in area, as well as park facilities larger than thirty acres where
such facilities provide a direct benefit. “Parks and recreational facilities”
do not include excluded park facilities, although parks and recreational
facilities may contain, provide access to, or otherwise support an excluded
park facility.
   “Plan-based cost per SMU” means the total future capital costs listed in the
infrastructure improvements plan for a category of necessary public services,
divided by the total new service units projected in a particular service area
for that category of necessary public services over the same time period.
   “Pledged” is defined as follows. Where used with reference to a development
impact fee, a development impact fee shall be considered “pledged” where it was
identified by the city as a source of payment or repayment for financing or
debt that was identified as the source of financing for a necessary public
service for which a development impact fee was assessed pursuant to the then-
applicable provisions of A.R.S. § 9-463.05.
   “Police facilities” means a category of necessary public services that may
include vehicles and equipment used by law enforcement agencies to preserve the
public peace, prevent crime, detect and arrest criminal offenders, protect the
rights of persons and property, regulate and control motorized and pedestrian
traffic, train sworn personnel, and/or provide and maintain police records,
vehicles, equipment, and communications systems. “Police facilities” do not
include vehicles and equipment used to provide administrative services, or
helicopters or airplanes. “Police facilities” do not include any facility used
for training officers from more than one station or substation.
   “Qualified professional” means any one of the following:
   A.   Professional engineer, surveyor, financial analyst or planner, or other
licensed professional providing services within the scope of that person's
education or experience related to city planning, zoning, or impact development
fees, and holding a license issued by an agency or political subdivision of the
State of Arizona;
   B.   A financial analyst, planner, or other non-licensed professional
providing services within the scope of the person's education or experience
related to city planning, zoning, or impact development fees; or
   C.   Any other person operating under the supervision of one or more of the
above.
   “Service area” means any specified area within the boundaries of the city
within which:
   A.   The city will provide a category of necessary public services to
development at a planned level of service; and
   B.   Within which:
   1.   A substantial nexus exists between the capital facilities to be
provided and the development to be served; or
   2.   In the case of library facilities or a park facility larger than thirty
acres, a direct benefit exists between the library facilities or park
facilities and the development to be served, each as prescribed in the
infrastructure improvements plan.
Some or all of the capital facilities providing service to a service area may
be physically located outside of that service area, provided that the required
substantial nexus or direct benefit is demonstrated to exist.
   “Service measurement unit (SMU)” means a unit of development within a
particular category of development, defined in terms of a standardized measure
of the demand that a unit of development in that category of development
generates for necessary public services. A “SMU” is a “service unit” for
purposes of paragraph (T), subparagraph (10) of A.R.S. § 9-463.05.
   “Street facilities” means a category of necessary public services that may
include arterial or collector streets or roads, traffic signals, rights-of-way,
and improvements thereon, bridges, culverts, irrigation tiling, storm drains,
and regional transportation facilities.
   “Subject development” means a land area linked by a unified plan of
development, which must be contiguous unless the land area is part of a
development agreement executed in accordance with Section
4.01.130 of this chapter.
   “Substantial nexus” is defined as follows. A “substantial nexus” exists
where the demand for necessary public services that will be generated by a SMU
can be reasonably quantified in terms of the burden it will impose on the
available capacity of existing capital facilities, the need it will create for
new or expanded capital facilities, and/or the benefit to the development from
those capital facilities.
   “Swimming pool” means a public facility primarily designed and/or utilized
for recreational, non-competitive functions generally occurring within water,
including but not limited to, swimming classes, open public swimming sessions,
and recreational league swimming/diving events. The facility may be indoors,
outdoors, or any combination thereof, and includes all necessary supporting
amenities.
   “Useful life” means the period of time in which an asset can reasonably be
expected to be used under normal conditions, whether or not the asset will
continue to be owned and operated by the city over the entirety of such period.
   “Vehicle” means any device, structure, or means of conveyance utilized for
transportation in the course of providing a particular category of necessary
public services at a specified level of service, excluding helicopters and
other aircraft.
   “Wastewater” means a category of necessary public services that may include,
but is not limited to, sewers, lift stations, reclamation plants, wastewater
treatment plants, and all other facilities for the collection, interception,
transportation, treatment and disposal of wastewater, and any appurtenances for
those facilities. (Ord. 1397.04.34 § 3 (part), 2013)
4.01.040   Applicability.
   A.   Except as otherwise provided herein, from and after July 1, 2013, this
chapter shall apply to all new development within any service area, except for
the development of any city facility.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all of the territory
within the corporate limits of the city and/or within the city's wastewater
service area.
   C.   The city manager, or his or her designee, is authorized to make
determinations regarding the application, administration and enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 1397.04.34 § 3 (part), 2013)
4.01.050   Authority for development impact fees.
   A.   Fee Report and Implementation. The city may assess and collect a
development impact fee for costs of necessary public services, including all
professional services required for the preparation or revision of an
infrastructure improvements plan, fee report, development impact fee, and
required reports or audits conducted pursuant to this chapter. Development
impact fees shall be subject to the following requirements:
   1.   The city shall develop and adopt a fee report that analyzes and defines
the development impact fees to be charged in each service area for each capital
facility category, based on the infrastructure improvements plan and the cost
per SMU calculated pursuant to Subsection
4.01.080.A.12 of this chapter.
   2.   Development impact fees shall be assessed against all new commercial,
residential, industrial and other developments, provided that the city may
assess different amounts of development impact fees against specific categories
of development, based on the actual burdens and costs that are associated with
providing necessary public services to that category of development. The amount
of a development impact fee shall be as set forth in the fee schedules adopted
by council, which shall not exceed the maximum supportable fee set forth in a
fee report.
   3.   Except as set forth in Subsection C of this section or otherwise set
forth in this chapter, no development impact fees shall be charged, or credits
issued, for any capital facility that does not fall within one of the
categories of necessary public services for which development impact fees may
be assessed as identified in Subsection
4.01.080.A.1 of this chapter.
   4.   Costs for necessary public services made necessary by new development
shall be based on the same level of service provided to existing development in
the same service area. Development impact fees may not be used to provide a
higher level of service to existing development or to meet stricter safety,
efficiency, environmental, or other regulatory standards to the extent that
these are applied to existing capital facilities that are serving existing
development.
   5.   Development impact fees may not be used to pay the city's
administrative, maintenance, or other operating costs for providing the level
of service.
   6.   Projected interest charges and financing costs can only be included in
development impact fees to the extent they represent principal and/or interest
on the portion of any financing or debt used to finance the construction or
expansion of a capital facility identified in the infrastructure improvements
plan.
   7.   Development impact fees charged by the city must be included in a fee
schedule prepared pursuant to this chapter, and must be based on information
and calculation of supportable fees included in the fee report;
   8.   All development impact fees shall meet the requirements of A.R.S. § 9-
463.05.
   B.   Costs per SMU. The fee report shall summarize the costs of capital
facilities necessary to serve new development, on a per-SMU basis as calculated
in the infrastructure improvements plan, including all required offsets, and
shall recommend a development impact fee structure for adoption by the city.
The actual impact fees to be assessed shall be disclosed and adopted by council
resolution in the form of impact fee schedules, noting the date the fee will
become effective.
   C.   Carry-over of Previously-Established Development Impact Fees and
Grandfathered Facilities. Notwithstanding the requirements of this chapter,
certain development impact fees adopted by the city prior to the effective date
of this chapter shall continue in effect as follows:
   1.   Unless decreased by a fee schedule adopted pursuant to this chapter,
development impact fees assessed pursuant to the city's adopted fee schedule
prior to the effective date of this chapter shall continue in full force and
effect, to the extent required to meet the provisions of A.R.S. § 9-463.05,
paragraph F, for developments for which a final site plan or subdivision
approval was given prior to the effective date of this chapter, and only to the
extent that the development impact fee is used to provide a category of
necessary public services that is authorized by Section
4.01.080 of this chapter.
   2.   The city may continue to assess, collect, and use any development
impact fee initially established before January 1, 2012, even if the
development impact fee would not otherwise be permitted to be collected and
spent pursuant to A.R.S. § 9-463.05, as amended by the state legislature in SB
1525, Fiftieth Legislature, First Regular Session, if either of the following
apply:
   a.   Both of the following conditions are met:
   i.   Prior to June 1, 2011, the development impact fee was pledged towards
the repayment of financing or debt incurred by the city to provide a capital
facility;
   ii.   The applicable capital facility was included in the city's
infrastructure improvements plan, or other city planning document prepared
pursuant to applicable law, prior to June 1, 2011.
   b.   Before August 1, 2014, the city uses the development impact fee to
finance a capital facility in accordance with A.R.S. § 9-463.05, Subsection
(S).
   3.   Defined terms in any previously established fee schedule shall be
interpreted according to the ordinance in effect at the time of their adoption.
(Ord. 1397.04.34 § 3 (part), 2013)
4.01.060   Administration of development impact fees.
   A.   Separate Funds. Development impact fees collected pursuant to this
chapter shall be placed in separate funds for each capital facility category
within each service area. Impact fee funds must be held by the city in an
interest-bearing account or accounts.
   B.   Limitations on Use of Fees. Development impact fees and any interest
thereon collected pursuant to this chapter shall be spent to provide capital
facilities associated with the same category of necessary public services in
the same service area for which they were collected, including costs of
financing or debt used by the city to finance such capital facilities and other
costs authorized by this chapter that are included in the infrastructure
improvements plan.
   C.   Time Limit. Development impact fees collected after July 1, 2014, shall
be used within ten years of the date upon which they were collected for all
categories of necessary public services, except for wastewater facilities. For
wastewater facilities fees collected after July 31, 2014, development impact
fees must be used within fifteen years of the date upon which they were
collected. (Ord. 1397.04.34 § 3 (part), 2013)
4.01.070   Land use assumptions.
   The infrastructure improvements plan shall be consistent with the city's
current land use assumptions for each service area and each category of
necessary public services as adopted by the city pursuant to A.R.S. § 9-463.05.
   A.   Reviewing the Land Use Assumptions. Prior to the adoption or amendment
of an infrastructure improvements plan, the city shall review and evaluate the
land use assumptions on which the infrastructure improvements plan is to be
based, to ensure that the land use assumptions within each service area conform
to the city's General Plan.
   B.   Evaluating Necessary Changes. If the land use assumptions upon which an
infrastructure improvements plan is based have not been updated within the last
five years, the city shall evaluate the land use assumptions to determine
whether changes are necessary. If, after general evaluation, the city
determines that the land use assumptions are still valid, the city shall issue
the report required in Section
4.01.100 of this chapter.
   C.   Required Modifications to Land Use Assumptions. If the city determines
that changes to the land use assumptions are necessary in order to adopt or
amend an infrastructure improvements plan, it shall make such changes as
necessary to the land use assumptions, prior to or in conjunction with the
review and approval of the infrastructure improvements plan pursuant to Section
4.01.100 of this chapter. (Ord. 1397.04.34 § 3 (part), 2013)
4.01.080   Infrastructure improvements plan.
   A.   Infrastructure Improvements Plan Contents. The infrastructure
improvements plan shall be developed by qualified professionals and may be
based upon or incorporated within the city's Capital Improvements Plan. The
infrastructure improvements plan shall:
   1.   Specify the categories of necessary public services for which the city
will impose a development impact fee, which may include any or all of the
following if appropriate:
   a.   Water;
   b.   Wastewater;
   c.   Stormwater, drainage, and flood control;
   d.   Libraries;
   e.   Street facilities;
   f.   Fire protection;
   g.   Police;
   h.   Parks.
   2.   Define and provide a map or description of one or more service areas
within which the city will provide each category of necessary public services
for which development impact fees will be charged. Each service area must be
defined in a manner that demonstrates a substantial nexus between the capital
facilities to be provided in the service area and the SMUs to be served by
those capital facilities. For libraries and for parks larger than thirty acres,
each service area must be defined in a manner that demonstrates a direct
benefit between the capital facilities and the SMUs to be served by those
capital facilities. The city may cover more than one category of capital
facilities in the same service area, provided that there is an independent
substantial nexus or direct benefit, as applicable, between each category of
necessary public services and the SMUs to be served.
   3.   Identify and describe the land use assumptions upon which the
infrastructure improvements plan is based in each service area.
   4.   Analyze and identify the existing level of service provided by the city
for each category of necessary public services in each service area.
   5.   Identify the level of service to be provided by the city for each
category of necessary public services in each service area, based on the
relevant land use assumptions and any established city standards or policies
related to required levels of service. If the city provides the same category
of necessary public services in more than one service area, the infrastructure
improvements plan shall include a comparison of the levels of service to be
provided in each service area.
   6.   For each category of necessary public services, analyze and identify
the existing capacity of the capital facilities in each service area, the
utilization of those capital facilities by existing SMUs, and the available
excess capacity of those capital facilities to serve new SMUs, including any
existing or planned commitments or agreements for the usage of such capacity.
The infrastructure improvements plan shall additionally identify:
   a.   Any changes or upgrades to existing capital facilities that will be
needed to achieve or maintain the planned level of service to existing SMUs, or
to meet new safety, efficiency, environmental, or other regulatory requirements
for services provided to existing SMUs; and
   b.   Those portions of capital facilities that will be necessary to serve
any new city facility for which development impact fees will not be assessed.
   7.   Identify any grandfathered facilities and the impact thereof on the
need for necessary public services in each affected service area.
   8.   Estimate the total number of existing and future SMUs within each
service area, based on the city's land use assumptions and projected new SMUs
in each service area.
   9.   Based on the above analysis, provide a summary table or tables
describing the level of service for each category of necessary public services,
by relating the required capital facilities to SMUs in each service area, and
identifying the applicable SMU factor associated with each category of
development.
   10.   For each category of necessary public services, analyze and identify
the projected utilization of any available excess capacity in existing capital
facilities, and all new or expanded capital facilities that will be required to
provide and maintain the planned level of service in each service area as a
result of the new projected SMUs in that service area, for a period not to
exceed ten years. Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit the city from
additionally including in its infrastructure improvements plan projected
utilization of, or needs for, capital facilities for a period longer than ten
years, provided that the costs of such capital facilities are excluded from the
calculation of the plan-based cost per SMU.
   11.   For each category of necessary public services, estimate the total
cost of any available excess capacity and/or new or expanded capital facilities
that will be required to serve new SMUs, including costs of land acquisition,
improvements, engineering and architectural services, studies leading to
design, construction, financing, and administrative costs, as well as projected
costs of inflation. Such total costs shall not include costs for ongoing
operation and maintenance of capital facilities, nor for replacement of capital
facilities to the extent that such replacement is necessary to serve existing
SMUs. If the infrastructure improvements plan includes changes or upgrades to
existing capital facilities that will be needed to achieve or maintain the
planned level of service to existing SMUs, or to meet new regulatory
requirements for services provided to existing SMUs, such costs shall be
identified and distinguished in the infrastructure improvements plan.
   12.   Forecast the revenues from taxes, fees, assessments or other sources
that will be available to fund the new or expanded capital facilities
identified in the infrastructure improvements plan, which shall include
estimated state-shared revenue, highway users revenue, federal revenue, ad
valorem property taxes, construction contracting or similar excise taxes and
the capital recovery portion of utility fees attributable to development, based
on the approved land use assumptions. The infrastructure improvements plan
shall additionally estimate the time required to finance, construct and
implement the new or expanded capital facilities.
   13.   Calculate required offsets as follows:
   a.   From the forecasted revenues in Subsection A.12 of this section,
identify those sources of revenue that:
   i.   Are attributable to new development; and
   ii.   Will contribute to paying for the capital costs of necessary public
services.
   b.   For each source and amount of revenue identified pursuant to Subsection
A.13.a of this section, calculate the relative contribution of each category of
development to paying for the capital costs of necessary public services in
each service area.
   c.   Based on the relative contributions identified pursuant to Subsection
A.13.b of this section, for each category of necessary public services,
calculate the total offset to be provided to each category of development in
each service area.
   d.   For each category of necessary public services, convert the total
offset to be provided to each category of development in each service area into
an offset amount per SMU, by dividing the total offset for each category of
development by the number of SMUs associated with that category of development.
   e.   Beginning August 1, 2014, for purposes of calculating the required
offset, if the city imposes a construction, contracting, or similar excise tax
rate in excess of the percentage amount of the transaction privilege tax rate
imposed on the majority of other transaction privilege tax classifications in
the city, the entire excess portion of the construction, contracting, or
similar excise tax shall be treated as a contribution to the capital costs of
necessary public services provided to new development, unless the excess
portion is already utilized for such purpose pursuant to this section.
   f.   In determining the amount of required offset for land included in a
community facilities district established under A.R.S. Title 48, Chapter 4,
Article 6, the city shall take into account any capital facilities provided by
the district that are included in the infrastructure improvements plan and the
capital costs paid by the district for such capital facilities, and shall
offset impact fees assessed within the community facilities district
proportionally.
   14.   Calculate the plan-based cost per SMU by:
   a.   Dividing the total projected costs to provide capital facilities to new
SMUs for each category of necessary public services in each service area, as
determined pursuant to Subsection A.9 of this section, into the number of new
SMUs projected for that service area over a period not to exceed ten years,
considering the specific SMU factor(s) associated with such SMUs for each
category of necessary public services.
   b.   Subtracting the required offset per SMU calculated pursuant to
Subsection A.11 of this section.
   B.   Multiple Plans. An infrastructure improvements plan adopted pursuant to
this subsection may address one or more of the city's categories of necessary
public services in any or all of the city's service areas. Each capital
facility shall be subject to no more than one infrastructure improvements plan
at any given time.
   C.   Reserved Capacity. The city may reserve capacity in an infrastructure
improvements plan to serve one or more planned future developments, including
capacity reserved through a development agreement pursuant to Section
4.01.130 of this chapter. All reservations of existing capacity must be
disclosed in the infrastructure improvements plan at the time it is adopted.
(Ord. 1397.04.34 § 3 (part), 2013)
4.01.090   Adoption and modification procedures.
   A.   Adopting or Amending the Infrastructure Improvements Plan. The
infrastructure improvements plan shall be adopted or amended subject to the
following procedures:
   1.   Major Amendments to the Infrastructure Improvements Plan. Except as
provided in Subsection A.2 of this section, the adoption or amendment of an
infrastructure improvements plan shall occur at one or more public hearings
according to the following schedule, and may occur concurrently with the
adoption of an update of the city's land use assumptions as provided in Section
4.01.070 of this chapter:
   a.   Sixty days before the first public hearing regarding a new or updated
infrastructure improvements plan, the city shall provide public notice of the
hearing and post the infrastructure improvements plan and the underlying land
use assumptions on its website; the city shall additionally make available to
the public the documents used to prepare the infrastructure improvements plan
and underlying land use assumptions, and the amount of any proposed changes to
the plan-based cost per SMU.
   b.   The city shall conduct a public hearing on the infrastructure
improvements plan and underlying land use assumptions at least thirty days, but
no more than sixty days, before approving or disapproving the infrastructure
improvements plan.
   2.   Minor Amendments to the Infrastructure Improvements Plan.
Notwithstanding the other requirements of this section, the city may update the
infrastructure improvements plan and/or its underlying land use assumptions
without a public hearing if all of the following apply:
   a.   The changes in the infrastructure improvements plan and/or the
underlying land use assumptions will not add any new category of necessary
public services to any service area.
   b.   The changes in the infrastructure improvements plan and/or the
underlying land use assumptions will not increase the level of service to be
provided in any service area.
   c.   Based on an analysis of the fee report and the city's adopted
development impact fee schedules, the changes in the infrastructure
improvements plan and/or the underlying land use assumptions would not,
individually or cumulatively with other amendments undertaken pursuant to this
subsection, have caused a development impact fee in any service area to have
been increased by more than five per cent above the development impact fee
provided in the current development impact fee schedule.
   d.   At least thirty days prior to the date that the any amendment pursuant
to this section is adopted, the city shall post the proposed amendments on the
city website.
   B.   Amendments to the Fee Report. Any adoption or amendment of a fee report
and fee schedule shall occur at one or more public hearings according to the
following schedule:
   1.   The first public hearing on the fee report must be held at least thirty
days after the adoption or approval of an infrastructure improvements plan as
provided in Subsection A of this section. The city must give at least thirty
days notice prior to the hearing, provided that this notice may be given on the
same day as the approval or disapproval of the infrastructure improvements
plan.
   2.   The city shall make the infrastructure improvements plan and underlying
land use assumptions available to the public on the city's website thirty days
prior to the public hearing described in Subsection B.1 of this section.
   3.   The fee report may be adopted by the city no sooner than thirty days,
and no later than sixty days, after the hearing described in Subsection B.1 of
this section.
   4.   The development fee schedules in the fee report adopted pursuant to
this subsection shall become effective no earlier than seventy-five days after
adoption of the fee report by the city. (Ord. 1397.04.34 § 3 (part), 2013)
4.01.100   Timing for the renewal and updating of the infrastructure
improvements plan and the land use assumptions.
   A.   Renewing the Infrastructure Improvements Plan. Except as provided in
Subsection B of this section, not later than every five years the city shall
update the applicable infrastructure improvements plan and fee report related
to each category of necessary public services pursuant to Section
4.01.090 of this chapter. The five-year period shall be calculated from the
date of the adoption of the infrastructure improvements plan or the date of the
adoption of the fee report, whichever occurs later.
   B.   Determination of No Changes. Notwithstanding Subsection A of this
section, if the city determines that no changes to an infrastructure
improvements plan, underlying land use assumptions, or fee report are needed,
the city may elect to continue the existing land use assumptions,
infrastructure improvements plan, and fee report without amendment by providing
notice as follows:
   1.   Notice of the determination shall be published at least one hundred
eighty days prior to the end of the five-year period described in Subsection A
of this section.
   2.   The notice shall identify the land use assumptions, infrastructure
improvements plan, and fee report that shall continue in force without
amendment.
   3.    The notice shall provide a map and description of the service area(s)
covered by such land use assumptions, infrastructure improvements plan and fee
report.
   4.   The notice shall identify an address to which any resident of the city
may submit, within sixty days, a written request that the city update the
infrastructure improvements plan, underlying land use assumptions, and/or fee
report, and the reasons and basis for the request.
   C.   Response to Comments. The city council shall consider and respond,
within sixty days after close of the comment period, to any timely requests
submitted pursuant to Subsection B.4 of this section, by accepting or rejecting
the request to update the underlying land use assumptions, infrastructure
improvements plan and/or fee report. (Ord. 1397.04.34 § 3 (part), 2013)
 4.01.110   Collection of development impact fees.
   A.   Collection. Development impact fees, together with any administrative
charges assessed pursuant to Subsection A.7 of this section, shall be
calculated and collected as follows:
   1.   Residential Development. Development impact fees shall be paid prior to
issuance of a building permit. Alternatively, impact fees may be paid prior to
the issuance of the earlier of a temporary or final certificate of occupancy,
in accordance with the terms of a development agreement adopted pursuant to
Section
4.01.130. The development agreement shall require that an appropriate financial
security be posted for the value of any deferred fees, to guarantee future
payment on or before issuance of any temporary or final certificate of
occupancy.
   2.   Non-residential Development. Development impact fees shall be paid
prior to the issuance of a building permit, or alternatively, may be paid prior
to the issuance of the earlier of a temporary or final certificate of
occupancy, if an appropriate financial security, acceptable to the city, is
posted for the value of any deferred fees, to guarantee future payment on or
before the issuance of a temporary or final certificate of occupancy.
   3.   Development Not Requiring a Building Permit. If a building permit is
not required for development, any and all development impact fees due shall be
paid prior to approval of a site plan authorizing said development. If a
building permit is not required for the development, but wastewater connections
are required, any and all development impact fees due shall be paid prior to
approval of a connection to the sewer system.
   4.   Wastewater development impact fees shall be assessed if a development
connects to the public sewer, or, as determined by the city public works
director, or his or her designee, is capable of discharging sewage to a city
public sewer.
   5.   No building permit, water or sewer connection, or certificate of
occupancy shall be issued if a development impact fee is not paid as directed
in the previous subsections. If a permit is issued by the city in violation of
this section, the permit is voidable at the option of the city, unless the
development impact fee has been paid in full prior to the city exercising its
option to void the permit.
   6.   If the building permit is for a change in the type of building use or
occupancy, an increase in square footage, a change to land use, or an addition
to a residential or non-residential point of demand to the wastewater system,
the development impact fee shall be assessed on the additional service units
resulting from the expansion or change, and following the development impact
fee schedule applicable to any new use type.
   7.   For issued permits that expire or are voided, development impact fees
and administrative charges shall be as follows:
   a.   If the original permittee is seeking to renew an expired or voided
permit, and the development impact fees paid for such development have not been
refunded, then the permittee shall pay the difference between any development
impact fees paid at the time the permit was issued and those in the fee
schedule at the time the permit is reissued or renewed, along with an
administrative fee for processing the renewal as set forth in the City
Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   b.   If a new or renewed permit for the same development is being sought by
someone other than the original permittee, the new permit applicant shall pay
the full development impact fees specified in the fee schedule in effect at the
time that the permits are reissued or renewed. If the original permittee has
assigned its rights under the permits, in writing, to the new permit applicant,
the new permit applicant shall pay development impact fees as if it were the
original permittee, along with an administrative fee for processing the renewal
as set forth in the City Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   B.   Exceptions. Development impact fees shall not be owed under either of
the following conditions:
   1.   Development impact fees have been previously paid for the development
and the permit(s) that triggered the collection of the development impact fees
have not expired or been voided.
   2.   The approval(s) that trigger the collection of development impact fees
involve modifications to existing residential or non-residential development
that do not:
   a.   Add new SMUs;
   b.   Increase the impact of existing SMUs on existing or future capital
facilities; or
   c.   Change the land-use type of the existing development to a different
category of development for which a higher development impact fee would have
been due. To the extent that any modification does not meet the requirements of
this subsection, the development impact fee due shall be the difference between
the development impact fee that was or would have been due on the existing
development, and the development impact fee that is due on the development as
modified.
   C.   Temporary Exemptions from Development Impact Fee Schedules. New
developments in the city shall be temporarily exempt from subsequent increases
in development impact fees that result from the adoption of new or modified
development impact fee schedules as follows:
   1.   Residential Uses. On or after the day that the first building permit is
issued for a platted single-family residential development, the city shall, at
the permittee's request, provide the permittee with an applicable development
impact fee schedule that shall be in force for a period of twenty-four months,
beginning on the day that the first building permit is issued, and expiring at
the end of the first business day of the twenty-fifth month thereafter. During
the effective period of the applicable development impact fee schedule, any
building permit issued for the samesingle-family residential development shall
not be subject to any new or modified development impact fee schedule that
increases the total fee due for that building permit.
   2.   Commercial, Industrial and Multi-family Uses. On or after the day that
the final approval, as defined in A.R.S. § 9-463.05(T)(4), is issued for a
commercial, industrial or multifamily development, the city shall provide an
applicable development impact fee schedule that shall be in force for a period
of twenty-four months, beginning on the day that final development approval of
a site plan or final subdivision plat is given, and expiring at the end of the
first business day of the twenty-fifth month thereafter. During the effective
period of the applicable development impact fee schedule, any building permit
issued for the same development shall not be subject to any new or modified
development impact fee schedule that increases the total fee due for that
building permit.
   3.   Other Development. Any category of development not covered under
Subsections C.1 and C.2 of this section shall pay development impact fees
according to the fee schedule that is current at the time of collection, as
specified in subsection A of this section.
   4.   Changes to Site Plans and Subdivision Plats. Notwithstanding the other
requirements of Subsection C, if changes are made to a development's final site
plan or subdivision plat that will increase the number of service units after
the issuance of a grandfathered development impact fee schedule, the city may
assess any new or modified development impact fees against the additional
service units. If the city reduces the amount of an applicable development
impact fee during the period that a grandfathered development impact fee
schedule is in force, the city shall assess the lower development impact fee.
   D.    Option to Pursue Special Fee Determination. Where a development is of
a type that does not closely fit within a particular category of development
appearing on an adopted development impact fee schedule, or where a development
has unique characteristics such that the actual burdens and costs associated
with providing necessary public services to that development will differ
substantially from those associated with other developments in a specified
category of development, the city may require the applicant to provide the city
planning and development director, or authorized designee, with an alternative
development impact fee analysis. Based on a projection of the actual burdens
and costs that will be associated with the development, the alternative
development impact fee analysis may propose a unique fee for the development,
based on the application of an appropriate service unit factor to be applied to
applicable schedule, or may propose that the development be covered under the
development impact fee schedule governing a different and more analogous
category of development. The city planning and development director, or
authorized designee, shall review the alternative impact fee analysis and shall
make a determination as to the development impact fee to be charged. Such
decision shall be appealable pursuant to Section
4.01.140 of this chapter. The city planning and development director, or
authorized designee, may require the applicant to pay an administrative fee, as
set forth in the City Consolidated Fee Schedule, to cover the actual costs of
reviewing the special fee determination application. (Ord. 1397.04.35 § 1,
2015; Ord. 1397.04.34 § 3 (part), 2013)
4.01.120   Development impact fee credits and credit agreements.
   A.   Eligibility of Capital Facility. All development impact fee credits
must meet the following requirements:
   1.   One of the following is true:
   a.   The capital facility, or the financial contribution toward a capital
facility that will be provided by the developer and for which a credit will be
issued, must be identified in an adopted infrastructure improvements plan and
fee report as a capital facility for which a development impact fee was
assessed; or
   b.   The applicant must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the city that,
given the class and type of improvement, the subject capital facility should
have been included in the infrastructure improvements plan in lieu of a
different capital facility that was included in the infrastructure improvements
plan, and for which a development impact fee was assessed. If the subject
capital facility is determined to be eligible for a credit in this manner, the
city shall amend the infrastructure improvements plan to:
   i.   Include the subject replacement facility; and
   ii.   Delete the capital facility that will be replaced.
   2.   Credits shall not be available for any infrastructure provided by a
developer if the cost of such infrastructure will be repaid to the developer by
the city through another agreement or mechanism. To the extent that the
developer will be paid or reimbursed by the city for any contribution, payment,
construction, or dedication from any city funding source, including an
agreement to reimburse the developer with future collected development impact
fees pursuant to Section
4.01.130 of this chapter, any credits claimed by the developer shall be:
   a.   Deducted from any amounts to be paid or reimbursed by the city; or
   b.   Reduced by the amount of such payment or reimbursement.
   B.   Eligibility of Subject Development. To be eligible for a credit, the
subject development must be located within the service area of the eligible
capital facility.
   C.   Calculation of Credits. Credits will be based on that portion of the
costs for an eligible capital facility identified in the adopted infrastructure
improvements plan for which a development fee was assessed pursuant to the fee
report. If the gross impact fee for a particular category of necessary public
service is adopted at an amount lower than the full supportable fee identified
in the fee report, the amount of any credit shall be reduced in proportion to
the difference between the amount identified in the fee report and the gross
impact fee adopted. A credit shall not exceed the actual costs the applicant
incurred in providing the eligible capital facility, nor shall it exceed the
gross impact fees payable for the subject development for that particular
category of necessary public service.
   D.   Allocation of Credits. Before any credit can be issued to a subject
development (or portion thereof), the credit must be allocated to that
development as follows:
   1.   The developer and the city must execute a credit agreement including
all of the following:
   a.   The total amount of the credits resulting from provision of an eligible
capital facility.
   b.   The estimated number of SMUs to be served within the subject
development.
   c.   The method by which the credit values will be distributed within the
subject development.
   2.   It is the responsibility of the developer to request allocation of
development impact fee credits through an application for a credit agreement
(which may be part of a development agreement entered into pursuant to Section
4.01.130 of this chapter).
   3.   If a building permit is issued or a sewer connection is purchased, and
a development impact fee is paid prior to execution of a credit agreement for
the subject development, no credits may be allocated retroactively to that
permit or connection. Credits may be allocated to any remaining permits for the
subject development in accordance with this chapter.
   4.   If the entity that provides an eligible capital facility sells or
relinquishes a development (or portion thereof) that it owns or controls prior
to execution of a credit agreement or development agreement, credits resulting
from the eligible capital facility will only be allocated to the development if
the entity legally assigns such rights and responsibilities to its successor(s)
in interest for the subject development.
   5.   If multiple entities jointly provide an eligible capital facility, both
entities must enter into a single credit agreement with the city, and any
request for the allocation of credit within the subject development(s) must be
made jointly by the entities that provided the eligible capital facility.
   6.   Credits may only be reallocated from or within a subject development
with the city's approval of an amendment to an executed credit agreement,
subject to the following conditions:
   a.   The entity that executed the original agreement with the city, or its
legal successor in interest, and the entity that currently controls the subject
development are parties to the request for reallocation.
   b.   The reallocation proposal does not change the value of any credits
already issued for the subject development.
   7.   A credit agreement may authorize the allocation of credits to a non-
contiguous parcel only if all of the following conditions are met:
   a.   The entity that executed the original agreement with the city or its
legal successor in interest, the entity that currently controls the subject
development, and the entity that controls the non-contiguous parcel are parties
to the request for reallocation.
   b.   The reallocation proposal does not change the value of any credits
already issued for the subject development.
   c.   The non-contiguous parcel is in the same service area as that served by
the eligible capital facility.
   d.   The non-contiguous parcel receives a necessary public service from the
eligible capital facility.
   e.   The credit agreement specifically states the value of the credits to be
allocated to each parcel and/or SMU, or establishes a mechanism for future
determination of the credit values.
   f.   The credit agreement does not involve the transfer of credits to or
from any property subject to a development agreement.
   E.   Credit Agreement. Credits shall only be issued pursuant to a credit
agreement executed in accordance with Subsection D of this section. The city
manager, or his or her authorized designee, is authorized by this chapter to
enter into a credit agreement with the controlling entity of a subject
development, subject to the following:
   1.   The developer requesting the credit agreement shall provide all
information requested by the city to allow it to determine the value of the
credit to be applied.
   2.   An application for a credit agreement shall be submitted to the city by
the developer within one year of the date on which ownership or control of the
capital facility passes to the city.
   3.   The developer shall submit a draft credit agreement to the city
manager, or authorized designee(s), for review in the form provided to the
applicant by the city. The draft credit agreement shall include, at a minimum,
all of the following information and supporting documentation:
   a.   A legal description and map depicting the location of the subject
development for which credit is being applied. The map shall depict the
location of the capital facilities that have been or will be provided.
   b.   An estimate of the total SMUs that will be developed within the subject
development depicted on the map and described in the legal description.
   c.   A list of the capital facilities, associated physical attributes, and
the related costs as stated in the infrastructure improvements plan.
   d.   Documentation showing the date(s) of acceptance by the city, if the
capital facilities have already been provided.
   e.   The total amount of credit to be applied within the subject development
and the calculations leading to the total amount of credit.
   f.   The credit amount to be applied to each SMU within the subject
development for each category of necessary public services.
   4.   Upon execution of the credit agreement by the city and the applicant,
credits shall be deemed allocated to the subject development. The city's
determination of the credit to be allocated is final.
   5.   Any amendment to a previously approved credit agreement must be
initiated within two years of the city's final acceptance of the eligible
capital facility for which the amendment is requested.
   6.   Any credit agreement approved as part of a development agreement shall
be amended in accordance with the terms of the development agreement and
Section
4.01.130 of this chapter.
   F.   Issuance of Credits. Credits allocated pursuant to Subsection D of this
section may be issued and applied toward the gross impact fees due from a
development, subject to the following conditions:
   1.   Credits issued for an eligible capital facility may only be applied to
the development impact fee due for the applicable category of necessary public
services, and may not be applied to any fee due for another category of
necessary public services.
   2.   Credits shall only be issued when the eligible capital facility from
which the credits were derived has been accepted by the city, or when adequate
security for the completion of the eligible capital facility has been provided
in accordance with all terms of an executed development agreement.
   3.   Where credits have been issued pursuant to Subsection F.2 of this
section, an impact fee due at the time a building permit is issued shall be
reduced by the credit amount stated in or calculated from the executed credit
agreement. Where credits have not yet been issued, the gross impact fee shall
be paid in full, and a refund of the credit amount shall be due when the
developer demonstrates compliance with Subsection F.2 of this section in a
written request to the city.
   4.   Once issued, credits may not be rescinded or reallocated to another
permit or parcel, except that credits may be released for reuse on the same
subject development if a building permit for which the credits were issued has
expired or been voided and is otherwise eligible for a refund under Subsection
4.01.150.A.2.a of this chapter.
   5.   Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Section
4.01.120, credits issued prior to January 1, 2012, may only be used for the
subject development for which they were issued. Such credits may be transferred
to a new owner of all or part of the subject development in proportion to the
percentage of ownership in the subject development to be held by the new owner.
(Ord. 1397.04.34 § 3 (part), 2013)
4.01.130   Development agreements.
   Development agreements containing provisions regarding development impact
fees, development impact fee credits, and/or disbursement of revenues from
development impact fee accounts shall comply with the following:
   A.   Development Agreement Required. A development agreement is required to
authorize any of the following:
   1.   To issue credits prior to the city's acceptance of an eligible capital
facility.
   2.   To allocate credits to a parcel that is not contiguous with the subject
development and that does not meet the requirements of Subsection
4.01.120.D.7 of this chapter.
   3.   To reimburse the developer of an eligible capital facility using funds
from development impact fee accounts.
   4.   To allocate different credit amounts per SMU to different parcels
within a subject development.
   5.   For a single-family residential dwelling unit, to allow development
impact fees to be paid at a later time than the issuance of a building permit,
as provided in this section.
   B.   General Requirements. All development agreements shall be prepared and
executed in accordance with A.R.S. § 9-500.05 and any applicable requirements
of the City Code. Except where specifically modified by this section, all
provisions of Section
4.01.120 of this chapter shall apply to any credit agreement that is authorized
as part of a development agreement.
   C.   Early Credit Issuance. A development agreement may authorize the
issuance of credits prior to acceptance of an eligible capital facility by the
city when the development agreement specifically states the form and value of
the security (i.e. bond, letter of credit, and the like) to be provided to the
city prior to issuance of any credits. The city shall determine the acceptable
form and value of the security to be provided.
   D.   Non-Contiguous Credit Allocation. A development agreement may authorize
the allocation of credits to a non-contiguous parcel only if all of the
following conditions are met:
   1.   The non-contiguous parcel is in the same service area as that served by
the eligible capital facility.
   2.   The non-contiguous parcel receives a necessary public service from the
eligible capital facility.
   3.   The development agreement specifically states the value of the credits
to be allocated to each parcel and/or SMU, or establishes a mechanism for
future determination of the credit values.
   E.   Uneven Credit Allocation. The development agreement must specify how
credits will be allocated amongst different parcels on a per-SMU basis, if the
credits are not to be allocated evenly. If the development agreement is silent
on this topic, all credits will be allocated evenly amongst all parcels on a
per-SMU basis.
   F.   Use of Reimbursements. Funds reimbursed to developers from impact fee
accounts for construction of an eligible capital facility must be utilized in
accordance with applicable law for the use of city funds in construction or
acquisition of capital facilities, including A.R.S. § 34-201 et seq.
   G.   Deferral of Fees. A development agreement may provide for the deferral
of payment of development impact fees for a residential development beyond the
issuance of a building permit; provided that a development impact fee may not
be paid later than the fifteen days after the issuance of the certificate of
occupancy for that dwelling unit. The development agreement shall provide for
the value of any deferred development impact fees to be supported by
appropriate security, including a surety bond, letter of credit, or cash bond.
   H.   Waiver of Fees. If the city agrees to waive any development impact fees
assessed on development in a development agreement, the city shall reimburse
the appropriate development impact fee account for the amount that was waived.
   I.   No Obligation. Nothing in this section obligates the city to enter into
any development agreement or to authorize any type of credit agreement
permitted by this section or chapter. (Ord. 1397.04.34 § 3 (part), 2013)
4.01.140   Appeals.
   A development impact fee determination by city staff may be appealed in
accordance with the following procedures:
   A.   Limited Scope. An appeal shall be limited to disputes regarding the
calculation of the development impact fees for a specific development and/or
permit and calculation of SMUs for the development.
   B.   Form of Appeal. An appeal shall be initiated on such written form as
the city may prescribe, and shall be submitted to the director of the planning
and development department.
   C.   Department Action. The planning and development department director
shall act upon the appeal within thirty calendar days of the filing of the
appeal with the planning and development department, and the applicant shall be
notified of the director's decision in writing.
   D.   Appeal to Manager. The applicant may further appeal the decision of the
planning and development department director to the city manager, or his or her
authorized designee, who shall be in a more senior position than the planning
and development department director, within fourteen calendar days of the
decision.
   E.   Action by Manager. The city manager, or his or her authorized designee,
shall act upon the appeal within fourteen calendar days of receipt of the
appeal, and the applicant shall be notified of the city manager or authorized
designee's decision in writing.
   F.   Final Decision. The city manager or authorized designee’s decision
regarding the appeal is final and no further appeals shall be permitted.
   G.   Fees During Pendency. Building permits may be issued during the
pendency of an appeal if the applicant (1) pays the full impact fee calculated
by the city at the time the appeal is filed, or (2) provides the city with
financial assurances in the form acceptable to the city manager, or authorized
designee, equal to the full amount of the impact fee calculated by the city.
Upon final disposition of an appeal, the fee shall be adjusted in accordance
with the decision rendered, and a refund paid if warranted. If the appeal is
denied by the city manager or his/her authorized designee, and the applicant
has provided the city with financial assurances as set forth in clause (2)
above, the applicant shall deliver the full amount of the impact fee to the
city within ten calendar days of the city manager or designee's final decision
on the appeal. If the applicant fails to deliver the full amount of the impact
fees when required by this subsection, the city may draw upon such financial
assurance instrument(s) as necessary to recover the full amount of the impact
fees due from the applicant. (Ord. 1397.04.34 § 3 (part), 2013)
4.01.150   Refunds of development impact fees.
   A.   Refunds. A refund (or partial refund) will be paid to any current owner
of property within the city who submits a written request to the city and
demonstrates that:
   1.   The permit(s) that triggered the collection of the development impact
fee have expired or been voided prior to the commencement of the development
for which the permits were issued, and the development impact fees collected
have not been expended, encumbered, or pledged for the repayment of financing
or debt; or
   2.    The owner of the subject real property or its predecessor in interest
paid a development impact fee for the applicable capital facility on or after
August 1, 2014, and one of the following conditions exists:
   a.   The capital facility designed to serve the subject real property has
been constructed, has the capacity to serve the subject real property and any
development for which there is reserved capacity, and the service which was to
be provided by that capital facility has not been provided to the subject real
property from that capital facility or from any other infrastructure.
   b.   After collecting the fee to construct a capital facility, the city
fails to complete construction of the capital facility within the time period
identified in the infrastructure improvements plan, as it may be amended, and
the corresponding service is otherwise unavailable to the subject real property
from that capital facility or any other infrastructure.
   c.   For a category of necessary public services other wastewater
facilities, any part of a development impact fee is not spent within ten years
of the city's receipt of the development impact fee.
   d.   Any part of a development impact fee for wastewater facilities is not
spent within fifteen years of the city's receipt of the development impact fee.
   e.   The development impact fee was calculated and collected for the
construction cost to provide all or a portion of a specific capital facility
serving the subject real property, and the actual construction costs for the
capital facility are less than the construction costs projected in the
infrastructure improvements plan by a factor of ten percent or more. In such
event, the current owner of the subject real property shall, upon request as
set forth in this Subsection A, be entitled to a refund for the difference
between the amounts of the development impact fee charged for and attributable
to such construction cost, and the amount the development impact fee would have
been calculated to be if the actual construction cost had been included in the
fee report. The refund contemplated by this subsection shall relate only to the
costs specific to the construction of the applicable capital facility, and
shall not include any related design, administrative, or other costs not
directly incurred for construction of the capital facility that are included in
the development impact fee as permitted by A.R.S. § 9-463.05.
   B.   Earned Interest. A refund of a development impact fee shall include any
interest actually earned on the refunded portion of the development impact fee
by the city from the date of collection to the date of refund. All refunds
shall be made to the record owner of the property at the time the refund is
paid.
   C.   Refund to Government. If a development impact fee was paid by a
governmental entity, any refund shall be paid to that governmental entity.
(Ord. 1397.04.34 § 3 (part), 2013)
4.01.160   Oversight of development impact fee program.
   A.   Annual Report. Within ninety days of the end of each fiscal year, the
city shall file with the city clerk an unaudited annual report accounting for
the collection and use of the fees for each service area, and shall post the
report on its website in accordance with A.R.S. § 9-463.05, Subsections N and
O, as amended.
   B.   Biennial Audit. In addition to the annual report described in
Subsection A of this section, the city shall provide for a biennial, certified
audit of the city's land use assumptions, infrastructure improvements plan, and
development impact fees.
   1.   An audit pursuant to this subsection shall be conducted by one or more
qualified professionals who are not employees or officials of the city, and who
did not prepare the infrastructure improvements plan.
   2.   The audit shall review the collection and expenditures of development
fees for each project in the plan, and provide written comments describing the
amount of development impact fees assessed, collected, and spent on capital
facilities.
   3.   The audit shall describe the level of service in each service area, and
evaluate any inequities in implementing the infrastructure improvements plan or
imposing the development impact fee.
   4.   The city shall post the findings of the audit on the city's website and
shall conduct a public hearing on the audit within sixty days of the release of
the audit to the public.
   5.   For purposes of this section, a “certified audit” shall mean any audit
authenticated by one or more of the qualified professionals conducting the
audit pursuant to Subsection B.1 of this section. (Ord. 1397.04.34 § 3 (part),
2013)
Chapter 4.02
RESERVED
Chapter 4.05
PAYBACK FEES
Sections:
Article I. Sewer Line Payback Fees.
4.05.010   Main sewer line payback fees.
4.05.020   Thornton Road main sewer line payback.
4.05.030   Peart Road main sewer line payback.
Article I. Sewer Line Payback Fees.
4.05.010 Main sewer line payback fees.
   In the event that a proposed main sewer line and its ultimate branches and
laterals increase sewer line capacity in a particular area not included in
development impact fees in Casa Grande Municipal Code Section 04.02.060, the
City may enact a sewer line payback fee for its costs in constructing that
sewer line.
(Ord. 1397.04.16 § 2 (part), 2003)
4.05.020 Thornton Road main sewer line payback.
   A.   Definitions. Unless otherwise indicated in the text of this Section
4.05.020, the following terms as used herein shall have the following meanings.
Capitalized terms not defined in this Section
4.05.020 shall have the meaning as set forth in Casa Grande Municipal Code
Chapter 13.08, Article I. Capitalized terms not defined in the Casa Grande
Municipal Code or this Section
4.05.020 shall have the meanings as set forth herein or the plain and common
meaning, unless the context requires otherwise.
   1.   "Thornton Road Sewer Line" is designed with a maximum capacity of 1.56
million gallons per day ("MGD") and its location is generally detailed in
Exhibit 1, attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference.
   2.   "Inflation Factor" shall mean the quotient of the Engineering News Road
Construction Cost Index (ENR) existing in the month preceding the issuance of
the building permit for the residential or non-residential land use being
connected or serviced by the Thornton Road Sewer Line divided by the ENR for
April 2003.
   3.   "Construction Cost" shall mean the base cost of $162,014.75 for the
construction of the Thornton Road Sewer Line.
   B.   Collection. The City will collect, along with the building permit fees,
a Thornton Road Payback Fee from all land uses that are served by and connected
to the Thornton Road Sewer Line.
   C.   The residential or non-residential uses that are served by and
connected to the Thornton Road Sewer Line shall pay, at the time of the City's
issuance of a building permit, the Thornton Road Payback Fee. The Thornton Road
Payback Fee is defined by the equation set forth below. The Thornton Road
Payback Fee will be determined on the amount of sewer line capacity each
residential or non-residential use will use in increments of MGD, or portions
thereof, based on the ADEQ and City standards existing at the time of building
permit issuance for that particular land use and adjusted by the then-existing
Inflation Factor.
[(A/1.56 MGD) X $162,014.75 x Inflation Factor] = Thornton Road Sewer Payback
fee
where:
A = amount of sewer line capacity use by each residential or non-residential
use in increments of MGD
   D.   City will only receive reimbursement up to a maximum of the
Construction Cost plus Inflation Factor adjustments allowed by this Section
4.05.020.
(Ord. 1397.04.16 § 2 (part), 2003)
4.05.030 Peart Road Main Sewer Line Payback.
   A.   Definitions. Unless otherwise indicated in the text of this Section
4.05.030, the following terms as used herein shall have the following meanings.
Capitalized terms not defined in this Section
4.05.030 shall have the meaning as set forth in Casa Grande Municipal Code
Chapter 13.08, Article I. Capitalized terms not defined in the Casa Grande
Municipal Code or this Section
4.05.030 shall have the meanings as set forth herein or the plain and common
meaning, unless the context requires otherwise.
   1.   "Peart Road Sewer Line" is designed with a maximum capacity of 2.8
million gallons per day ("MGD") and its location is generally detailed in
Exhibit 1, attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference.
   2.   "Inflation Factor" shall mean the quotient of the Engineering News Road
Construction Cost Index (ENR) existing in the month preceding the issuance of
the building permit for the residential or non-residential land use being
connected or serviced by the Peart Road Sewer Line divided by the ENR for April
2003.
   3.   "Construction Cost" shall mean the base cost of $328,025.25 for the
construction of the Peart Road Sewer Line.
   B.   Collection. The City will collect, along with the building permit fees,
a Peart Road Payback Fee from all land uses that are served by and connected to
the Peart Road Sewer Line.
   C.   The residential or non-residential uses that are served by and
connected to the Peart Road Sewer Line shall pay, at the time of the City's
issuance of a building permit, the Peart Road Payback Fee. The Peart Road
Payback Fee is defined by the equation set forth below. The Peart Road Payback
Fee will be determined on the amount of sewer line capacity each residential or
non-residential use will use in increments of MGD, or portions thereof, based
on the ADEQ and City standards existing at the time of building permit issuance
for that particular land use and adjusted by the then-existing Inflation
Factor.
[(A/2.8 MGD) X $328,025.25 x Inflation Factor] = Peart Road Sewer Payback fee
where:
A = amount of sewer line capacity use by each residential or non-residential
use in increments of MGD
   D.   City will only receive reimbursement up to a maximum of the
Construction Cost plus Inflation Factor adjustments allowed by this Section
4.05.030.
(Ord. 1397.04.17 § 1 (part), 2003)
Title 5
BUSINESS TAXES, LICENSES
AND REGULATIONS
Chapters:
5.04   Business Transaction Tax
5.08   Pawnshops, Secondhand Dealers, Junk Collectors and Auction Houses
5.12   Peddlers, Solicitors and Transient Merchants
5.16   Mobile Food Vendors
5.20   Massage Establishments
5.24   Sexually Oriented Businesses
5.28   Short-Term Rentals
Chapter 5.04
BUSINESS TRANSACTION TAX
Sections:
5.04.010   Tax liability.
5.04.020   Business tax receipt issuance—Authority— Terms and conditions.
5.04.030   Payment in advance required.
5.04.040   Taxes due when.
5.04.050   Tax schedule.
5.04.060   Exemption from business transaction tax.
5.04.070   Taxes delinquent when—Penalty.
5.04.080   Separate business transaction tax liabilities for separate
locations.
5.04.090   Posting requirements.
5.04.100   Enforcement and administration authority.
5.04.110   Licenses transferable.
5.04.120   Authority to file complaints against violators.
5.04.130   Violation, conviction not to exempt from payment.
5.04.140   Revocation.
5.04.150   Appeal procedure.
5.04.160   Penalties.
5.04.010 Tax liability.
   It is unlawful for any person, whether as principal or agent, either for
himself or any other person, or for any body corporate, or an officer of any
corporation or as a member of any firm or co- partnership, or otherwise, to
commence, practice, transact or carry on any trade, calling, profession,
occupation or business as set out in this chapter, without first having paid a
business transaction tax to the city or without complying with any and all
rules and regulations of such trade, calling, profession, occupation or
business designated in this chapter, or without complying with any and all
regulations of such trades, callings, professions, occupations or businesses
contained in this chapter, shall constitute a separate violation of this
chapter for each and every day that such trade, calling, profession, occupation
or business is practiced, transacted or carried on. The issuance of a business
tax receipt is not to be deemed as evidence or proof that the recipient has
complied with the provisions of this chapter or other provisions of this code,
nor shall it stop the prosecution by the city for any violation of this code. A
person who has less than three apartments, houses, trailer spaces, or other
lodging spaces rented, leased or licensed or available for rent, lease, or
license within the state and no units of commercial property for rent, lease,
or license within the state, is not deemed to be in the rental business, and is
therefore exempt from the tax imposed by this section on such income. However,
a person who has one or more units of commercial property is subject to the tax
imposed by this section on all such lodging spaces and commercial units rental,
lease, or license income even though said person may have fewer than three
lodging spaces. In addition to the above requirements, any person or entity who
has an Arizona sales tax number and who pays sales tax to the city, is required
to pay a business transaction tax pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1397.05.4 § 2, 1994)
5.04.020 Business tax receipt issuance—Authority— Terms and conditions.
   A.   It shall be the duty of the finance director, or such other person to
whom may be assigned the duty, to prepare and issue a business tax receipt
under this chapter for every person, firm, company or corporation liable to pay
a business transaction tax.
   B.   In no case shall any mistake of the clerk prevent or prejudice the
collection for the city of what shall actually be due from anyone carrying on a
trade, calling, profession, occupation or business, subject to the business
transaction tax under this chapter.
   C.   No business tax receipt shall be issued to a person, firm or
corporation which has a past-due balance of fees assessed pursuant to Chapters
8.08, 8.12 and 13.08 of this code.
   D.   The finance director may, in his discretion, issue a business tax
receipt when he believes it will assist the city in the collection of a past
due account.
(Ord. 1397.05.3 § 2 (part), 1993)
5.04.030 Payment in advance required.
   All taxes required by this chapter shall be paid in advance to the finance
director at the city hall, or in such manner as may be specified by the finance
director. The business transaction tax paid in advance shall not be refunded
once the business transaction tax application has begun to be processed by the
city.
(Ord. 1397.05.3 § 2 (part), 1993)
5.04.040 Taxes due when.
   A.   The daily business transaction tax shall be due and payable each day,
in advance.
   B.   The annual business transaction tax provided for shall be due and
payable on the first day of January of each year.
   C.   There shall be no proration of daily business transaction tax.
   D.   Annual business transaction taxes prescribed by this chapter shall be
diminished by one-twelfth of the full annual business transaction tax for each
month of the tax period which has fully lapsed at the date of the business
transaction tax application; provided, however, annual business transaction
taxes shall not be prorated to an amount less than one-half and full annual
business transaction tax.
(Ord. 1397.05.3 § 2 (part), 1993)
5.04.050 Tax schedule.
   The business transaction tax for businesses, occupations, trades, callings
and professions is hereby established in the City Consolidated Fee Schedule
pursuant to Section
1.04.170, and shall be paid by all persons who shall practice, transact, carry
on or engage in such businesses, occupations, trades, callings and professions.
The business transaction tax set out therein shall be collected annually during
the month of January, unless otherwise specified.
   Any individual, group or company can only be issued one temporary business
tax receipt per calendar year; however, that issuance can be for any number of
days. If additional dates are required to conduct business in the city, the
individual, group or company shall be required to get an annual license.
(Ord. 1397.02.10 § 2, 2008; Ord. 1397.05.3 § 2 (part), 1993)
5.04.060 Exemption from business transaction tax.
   A.   The finance director may, upon terms and conditions as he/she deems
advisable, waive any fee specified in this chapter for any event or project
sponsored by a local nonprofit, charitable, or religious organization where the
entire proceeds of such event or project are to be used for charitable
purposes.
   B.   The finance director shall have the authority to waive the fees
specified in this chapter for any event sponsored by a local merchant,
organization, or group, who may not qualify as nonprofit, but where the cost of
processing the business transaction tax application(s) exceeds the potential
tax generated.
(Ord. 1397.05.3 § 2 (part), 1993)
5.04.070 Taxes delinquent when—Penalty.
   When any annual business transaction tax provided for in this chapter
becomes due and unpaid for twenty days, and when the daily tax provided for in
this chapter becomes due and unpaid, the same shall become delinquent, and the
finance director shall, on the day the same becomes delinquent, add thereto an
amount equal to ten percent of the total amount of a tax unpaid and delinquent
as a penalty and no business tax receipt shall be issued by the finance
director until all taxes that are delinquent and the penalties added thereto
have been paid in full.
(Ord. 1397.05.3 § 2 (part), 1993)
5.04.080 Separate business transaction tax liabilities for separate locations.
   A separate business transaction tax must be paid for each branch
establishment or separate place of business in which any trade, calling,
profession, occupation or business is practiced, transacted or carried on, and
for each trade, calling, profession, occupation or business practiced, or
transacted. When there is a question whether a company or individual needs to
pay additional business transaction taxes and the code is unclear, the company
or individual will pay the lesser rather than the higher tax.
(Ord. 1397.05.3 § 2 (part), 1993)
5.04.090 Posting requirements.
   Every person, firm, company or corporation having a business tax receipt
under the provisions of this chapter, and carrying on a trade, calling,
profession, occupation or business at a fixed place of business shall keep such
receipt posted and exhibited, while in force, in some conspicuous part of the
place of business. Every person having such a business tax receipt and not
having a fixed place of business shall carry such license with him at all times
while carrying on that trade, calling, profession, occupation or business for
which the same was granted. Every person, firm, company or corporation having a
business tax receipt under the provisions of this chapter shall produce and
exhibit the same, when applying for a renewal thereof, and whenever requested
to do so by any police officer, the finance director or by any other officer
authorized to issue, inspect or collect taxes.
(Ord. 1397.05.3 § 2 (part), 1993)
5.04.100 Enforcement and administration authority.
   The finance director and police officers shall have and exercise the power
to enter free of charge, at any time, any place of business for which a license
is required by this chapter and so demand the exhibition of the business tax
receipt for the current term from any person engaged or employed in the
transaction of such business. Denial of right of entry by the owner or his
agents or employees shall be a petty offense. Police officers may make arrests
in the discharge of their duties for violations of any provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1397.05.3 § 2 (part), 1993)
5.04.110 Licenses transferable.
   All business tax receipts issued hereunder are transferable and assignable.
The finance director will upon receipt of a transfer fee of five dollars,
transfer or assign any business tax receipt to any other person by written
endorsement thereon.
(Ord. 1397.05.3 § 2 (part), 1993)
5.04.120 Authority to file complaints against violators.
   It shall be the duty of the finance director or others to whom the duty is
given, to cause complaints to be filed against all persons violating any of the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1397.05.3 § 2 (part), 1993)
5.04.130 Violation, conviction not to exempt from payment.
   The conviction and punishment of any person for transacting any trade,
calling, profession, occupation or business without a business tax receipt
shall not excuse or exempt such person from the payment of any tax due or
unpaid at the time of such conviction.
(Ord. 1397.05.3 § 2 (part), 1993)
5.04.140 Revocation.
   Any business tax receipt issued under the provisions of this chapter may be
revoked for violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1397.05.3 § 2 (part), 1993)
5.04.150 Appeal procedure.
   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the finance director, or other
person to whom it is delegated the administration of this chapter with respect
to the issuance or refusal to issue any business tax receipt may appeal to the
city council by filing with the finance director a notice of appeal. The
council shall thereupon fix a time and place for hearing such appeal. The
finance director shall give notice to such person of the time and place of
hearing by serving it personally or by depositing it in the United States Post
Office at Casa Grande, Arizona, postage prepaid, addressed to such person at
his last known address.
(Ord. 1397.05.3 § 2 (part), 1993)
5.04.160 Penalties.
   Any person, firm, company or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this chapter is guilty of a petty offense and, if no other punishment is
provided, shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not exceeding one
hundred dollars. Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 1397.05.3 § 2 (part), 1993)
Chapter 5.08
PAWNSHOPS, SECONDHAND DEALERS, JUNK COLLECTORS AND AUCTION HOUSES
Sections:
5.08.010   Definitions.
5.08.020   Report to chief of police.
5.08.030   Report to be in English.
5.08.040   Report filing requirements—Failure to meet—Penalty.
5.08.050   Revocation of license.
5.08.010 Definitions.
   For the purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply:
   “Auction house” means any establishment in which is carried on the business
of auctioning articles for sale by public outcry and where such items offered
for auction are sold immediately to the highest bidder.
   “Junk collector” means a person not having a fixed place of business in the
city who goes from house to house and from place to place, gathering,
collecting, buying, selling or otherwise dealing in any old rags, sacks,
bottles, cans, papers, metals or other articles commonly known as junk.
   “Pawnbroker” means a person engaged in conducting, managing or carrying on
the business of pawnbroking or the business of loaning money for himself or for
any other person, receiving as security of the repayment thereof pawns, or
pledges of personal property, or the business of purchasing personal property
and reselling or agreeing to resell such article to vendors, their personal
representatives or their assignees, at prices agreed upon at or before the time
of such purchase, whether such business be the principal or sole business so
carried on, managed or conducted, or merely incidental to, in connection with
or a branch or department of some other business or businesses.
   “Pawnshop” means any room, store or place in which such business is engaged
in, carried on or conducted.
   “Secondhand dealer” means a person engaged in, conducting, managing or
carrying on the business of buying, selling, or otherwise dealing in secondhand
goods, wares or merchandise or articles, whether such business be the principal
or sole business so carried on, managed or conducted, or be merely incidental
to, in connection with a branch or department of some other business or
businesses.
(Prior code § 10-4-1)
5.08.020 Report to chief of police required.
   Every person licensed to engage in the business of auction house, junk
dealer, pawnshop or secondhand dealer shall be required to make out and deliver
to the chief of police, within twenty-four hours after receipt, a full, true
and complete report of all goods, wares, merchandise or articles received on
deposit, in pawn, pledge, trade or exchange, or by purchase. Such report shall
show the hour of the day and the date when such articles were received and
shall show the signature of the seller and his name and address, as nearly as
the same are known or can be ascertained by the auction house, junk dealer,
pawnshop, or secondhand dealer, which description shall reveal the dress, sex,
approximate height, age, complexion, color of hair, and any distinguishing
marks of such person. Such report filed by the auction house, junk dealer,
pawnshop, or secondhand dealer shall show the number of the pawn ticket, if any
is given, the amount loaned for the article or the amount paid therefor, the
quantity or number purchased, and a brief description thereof.
(Prior code § 10-4-2)
5.08.030 Report to be in English.
   All reports required by the provisions of this chapter, made out and
delivered to the chief of police, shall be written or printed in the English
language in a clear and legible manner.
(Prior code § 10-4-3)
5.08.040 Report filing requirements—Failure to meet—Penalty.
   A.   It is unlawful for any pawnbroker, secondhand dealer, junk dealer or
junk collector to deface, alter, change or destroy, part with, conceal, give
away, sell or dispose of any goods, wares, merchandise or article before or
until one week after making out and delivering to the chief of police the
report hereinabove required in accordance with the provisions herein stated.
Special permission to sell in less than seven days may be obtained upon
personal inspection and written permission of the chief of police.
   B.   Each failure, neglect or refusal to make out and deliver to the chief
of police the report required herein, within the time required, and each
defacement, alteration, change, destruction, parting with, concealing, gift,
sale or disposition of any goods, wares, merchandise or article before or until
one week after the making out and delivery of such report shall constitute a
violation of this chapter.
(Prior code § 10-4-4)
5.08.050 Revocation of license.
   The business license of any person licensed under this chapter may be
revoked by the council for any violation of this chapter.
(Prior code § 10-4-5)
Chapter 5.12
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Sections:
5.12.010   License required.
5.12.020   Definitions.
5.12.030   Exemptions.
5.12.040   Compliance required—Terms and conditions.
5.12.050   Application requirements—Individual.
5.12.060   Application requirements—Corporate or firm.
5.12.070   License nontransferable.
5.12.080   Investigation prior to issuance or denial of license—Appeal—Records.
5.12.090   Application requirements—Charitable organizations.
5.12.100   License fees.
5.12.110   Bond required prior to issuance.
5.12.120   Posting requirements.
5.12.130   Location regulated.
5.12.140   Undue noise prohibited.
5.12.150   Administration and enforcement authority.
5.12.160   Revocation of license when.
5.12.170   Violation.
5.12.010 License required.
   It is unlawful for any peddler, solicitor, canvasser, transient merchant or
itinerant vendor, as the same are defined in this chapter, to engage in such
business within the corporate limits of the city without first obtaining a
license therefor in compliance with the provisions of this chapter and all
other applicable city regulations.
(Ord. 1309 §§ 1 (part), 2 (part), 1990)
5.12.020 Definitions.
   In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
   “Canvasser” or “solicitor” means any person, corporate or individual, or
firm, who travels, or whose agents travel, either by foot, wagon, automobile,
motor truck or any other type of conveyance, from place to place, from house to
house, from street to street or business to business, taking or attempting to
take orders for sale of goods, wares and merchandise, edible foodstuffs,
personal property of any nature whatsoever for future delivery, or for the
services to be furnished or performed in the future.
   “Clerk” means the finance director or his designee.
   “Peddler” means any person, individual or corporate, or firm, who travels,
or whose agents travel, by foot, wagon, automobile or any other type of
conveyance, from place to place, from house to house, from street to street or
business to business, carrying provisions, offering and exposing the same for
sale or making sales and delivering articles to purchasers or who, without
traveling from place to place, shall sell or offer the same from a wagon,
automotive vehicle, railroad car or other conveyance.
   “Transient merchant,” “itinerant merchant” or “itinerant vendor” means any
person, corporate or individual, or firm, whether owner or otherwise, who
engages, or whose agents engage, in a temporary business of selling and
delivering goods, wares, merchandise, edible foodstuffs or provisions, within
the city, and who in furtherance of such purpose, hires, leases, uses or
occupies any building, structure, motor vehicle, tent, railroad boxcar, boat,
public room in a hotel, lodginghouse, apartment, shop, or any street, alley or
other place within the city for the exhibition and sale of such goods, wares,
merchandise and edible foodstuffs, either privately or at public auction. The
person or firm so engaged shall not be relieved from complying with the
provisions of this chapter merely by reason of associating temporarily with any
local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer or by conducting such transient
business in connection with, as part of, or in the name of any such local
dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer.
(Ord. 1309 §§ 1 (part), 2 (part), 1990)
5.12.030 Exemptions.
   A.   The terms of this chapter do not include the acts of newsboys, persons
selling personal property at wholesale to dealers in such articles, nor to
students on a school class project, nor to acts of merchants or their employees
in delivering goods in the regular course of business. The producers of food
products from agricultural lands, farms and gardens are exempt from the
provisions of this chapter when selling or disposing of their products. Nothing
contained in this chapter prohibits any sale required by statute or by order of
any court or prevents any person from conducting a bona fide auction sale
pursuant to law.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to those established
merchants or businesses maintaining establishments in this city and whom have
properly filed and paid all city sales taxes on their business activities
conducted within the city over the past ninety days. These businesses shall
obtain a peddler's license, at no charge, to conduct those activities defined
in this chapter.
   C.   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to mobile food vendors,
as defined in Section 5.16.020, provided that the mobile food vendor has
obtained a business tax receipt as required by Section 5.04 and the mobile food
vendor meets the requirements of Chapter 5.16. (Ord. 1397.05.05 § 1, 2023: Ord.
1309 §§ 1 (part), 2 (part), 1990)
5.12.040 Compliance required—Terms and conditions.
   All canvassers, solicitors and peddlers as defined in this chapter, must
comply with all provisions of this chapter. All transient merchants, itinerant
merchants or itinerant vendors must comply with all provisions of this chapter
except for subsections 5.12.050(G), (H), and (I) and 5.12.060(F)(1), (2), and
(3). This would exempt these specific businesses from having to provide
fingerprints, photographs and character statements in obtaining a peddlers
license.
(Ord. 1309 §§ 1 (part), 2 (part), 1990)
5.12.050 Application requirements—Individual.
   Individual applicants for the permit and license under this chapter must
comply with the licensing requirements of Chapters 5.04 and 3.08 of this code,
as well as this chapter. An applicant shall supply the following information
required by
Chapter 5.04:
   A.   Name and description of the applicant; date of birth; social security
number;
   B.   Address (legal and local); state sales tax number;
   C.   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to be
sold;
   D.   If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with
evidence establishing the exact relationship;
   E.   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
   F.   If a vehicle is to be used, a description of the same, together with
license number or other means of identification;
   G.   A photograph of the applicant taken within sixty days immediately prior
to the date of filing of the application, which picture shall be approximately
two inches by two inches, showing the head and shoulders of the applicant in a
clear distinguishing manner;
   H.   The fingerprints of the applicant and the names of at least two
reliable citizens of the city who will certify as to the applicant's good
character and business responsibility, or, in lieu of the names of references,
any other available evidence as to the good character and business
responsibility of the applicant as will enable an investigator to properly
evaluate such character and business responsibility;
   I.   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted of
any crime, misdemeanor (except minor traffic violations) or violation of any
municipal laws, the nature of the offense and the punishment or penalty
assessed therefor;
   J.   Applicants proposing to sell edible foodstuffs shall file with the
application a statement by a reputable physician of the city, dated not more
ten days prior to the submission of the application, certifying the applicant
to be free of infectious, contagious or communicable disease, or, in lieu
thereof, a Pinal County health card;
   K.   Applicant must provide an estimate of the gross sales value, in
dollars, of the applicant's goods and services offered or made available for
sale within this city. Gross sales value may be defined as the total sales
value of all of the inventory offered for sale within this city.
(Ord. 1309 §§ 1 (part), 2 (part), 1990)
5.12.060 Application requirements—Corporate or firm.
   Corporate or firm applicants, for the permit and license under this chapter,
must comply with the licensing agreements of Chapters 5.04 and 3.08, as well as
this chapter. An applicant shall supply the following information to the clerk,
in addition to the information required in
Chapter 5.04:
   A.   Name of applicant; date of birth; social security number;
   B.   Address (legal and local); state sales tax number;
   C.   A brief description of the nature of business and the goods, etc., to
be sold;
   D.   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
   E.   If vehicles are to be used, the quantity and description of same,
together with the license numbers or other means of identification;
   F.   A list of all of the agents or representatives who will be operating
within the city, including their addresses. In this connection, such firm or
corporation shall furnish at the time of application the following information
and material pertaining to such representatives or agents:
   1.   A photograph of each agent or representative taken within sixty days
immediately prior to the date of the filing of the application, which picture
shall be approximately two inches by two inches, showing the head and shoulders
of the agent or representative in a clear and distinguishing manner,
   2.   The fingerprints of each agent or representative and the names of at
least two reliable citizens of the city who will certify as to each person's
good character and business responsibility or, in lieu of the names of
references, any other available evidence as to the good character and business
responsibility of the agents or representatives concerned as will enable an
investigator to properly evaluate such character, and business responsibility,
   3.   A statement as to whether each agent or representative has been
convicted of any crime, misdemeanor (except minor traffic violations), or
violation of any municipal laws, the nature of the offense and the punishment
or penalty assessed therefor,
   4.   Applicants proposing to sell foodstuffs shall file with the application
a statement by a reputable physician of the city, dated not more than ten days
prior to the submission of the application, certifying the applicant to be free
of infectious, contagious or communicable disease or, in lieu thereof, a Pinal
County health card,
   5.   Applicant must provide an estimate of the gross sales value, in
dollars, of the applicant's goods and services offered or made available for
sale within this city. Gross sales value may be defined as the total sales
value of all of the inventory offered for sale within this city.
(Ord. 1309 §§ 1 (part), 2 (part), 1990)
5.12.070 License nontransferable.
   No license issued hereunder shall be transferable, but corporate or firm
licenses may change, substitute or alter the list of their agents or
representatives furnished to the clerk at any time; provided, however, that for
each newly named agent or representative on such list, the information and
material required in subsection 5.12.060(F) shall be furnished therewith.
(Ord. 1309 §§ 1 (part), 2 (part), 1990)
5.12.080 Investigation prior to issuance or denial of license—Appeal—Records.
   Upon receipt of the application, the city shall cause the investigation of
the person's business responsibility or moral character to be made as deemed
necessary for the protection of the public good. The investigation by the city
under the provisions of this chapter shall be completed within fifteen days
after the applicant has given the required information. If, as a result of the
investigation, the applicant's or his agents' or representatives' business
responsibility and character are found to be unsatisfactory, the application
shall be denied. Any applicant so denied, may appeal the decision to the city
manager. If, as a result of the investigation, the character and business
reputation appear to be satisfactory, the clerk shall so certify in writing,
and a license shall be issued by the clerk. The clerk shall keep a full record
in his office of all licenses issued. Such license shall contain the number of
the license, the date the same is issued, the nature of the business authorized
to be carried on, the amount of the license fee paid, the expiration date of
the license, the place where the business may be carried on under the license
and the name of the person authorized to carry on the same.
(Ord. 1309 §§ 1 (part), 2 (part), 1990)
5.12.090 Application requirements—Charitable organizations.
   A.   Any organization, society, association or corporation desiring to
solicit or have solicited in its name money, donations of money or property or
financial assistance of any kind or desiring to sell or distribute any item of
literature or merchandise to persons other than members of the organization
upon the streets, in office or business buildings, by house to house canvass or
in public places for a charitable, religious, patriotic or philanthropic
purpose exclusively shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter;
provided, there is filed a sworn application in writing on a form to be
furnished by the clerk which shall give the following information:
   1.   Name and purpose of the cause for which the permit is sought;
   2.   Names and addresses of the officers and directors of the organization;
   3.   Period during which the solicitation is to be carried on;
   4.   Whether or not any commission, fees, wages or emoluments are to be
expended in connection with the solicitation and the amount thereof.
   B.   Upon being satisfied that the organization, association or corporation
is a religious, charitable, patriotic or philanthropic organization, the clerk
shall issue a permit without charge to the organization, association or
corporation to solicit in the city. The organization, association or
corporation shall furnish all of its members, agents or representatives
conducting solicitations identification cards stating the name of the
organization, name of the agent and purpose of solicitation.
(Ord. 1309 §§ 1 (part), 2 (part), 1990)
5.12.100 License fees.
   The license fees shall be paid at the time of issuance of the license. The
license fees are hereby established in the City Consolidated Fee Schedule
pursuant to Section
1.04.170.
(Ord. 1397.02.10 § 3, 2008: Ord. 1309 §§ 1 (part), 2 (part), 1990)
5.12.110 Bond required prior to issuance.
   A.   Before any license, as provided herein, shall be issued for engaging in
the business of canvasser or solicitor, peddler, transient or itinerant
merchant, as defined in this chapter, the applicant shall file with the clerk a
bond running to the city the penal sum of the greater of five hundred dollars
or ten percent of the estimated gross sales value, executed by the applicant as
principal and at least one surety upon which service of process may be made in
the state. The bond, to be approved by the city, is to be subject to the
condition that the applicant, agents or representatives shall comply fully with
all of the provisions of the laws of the city and the state statutes regulating
and concerning the business of the peddler regarding sales taxes, business
license fees, and other city fees required of the peddler, and will pay all
judgments rendered against the applicant or agents or the name of the city to
recover city sales taxes, city business license fees, and other city fees
required of the peddler. The bond shall be approved by the city both as to form
and as to the responsibility of sureties thereon.
   B.   The bond shall remain in full force and effect throughout the period of
time such licensee shall be conducting his business in this city or, upon
thirty days' written notice to the city, the cancellation of the bond by the
sureties thereof. Upon the cancellation, the licensee shall have ten days from
the date of the cancellation within which to obtain a new bond of like kind and
quality. Should the applicant fail to procure the new bond, his license shall
be deemed void as of the day listed by the clerk. Nothing, however, contained
herein shall be construed as preventing the applicant from re-applying for a
new license at a later time. If in the judgment of the clerk, under guidelines
established by the finance director, the requirements and obligations of this
chapter will be met without requiring an applicant to comply with this section,
the clerk may indicate upon the application that the applicant is exempted from
complying with Section
5.12.150 in which event the applicant will not be required to comply with this
section.
(Ord. 1309 §§ 1 (part), 2 (part), 1990)
5.12.120 Posting requirements.
   The license issued to the individual or corporate licensees hereunder shall
be posted in a conspicuous place if the licenses are using a vehicle or
building. The clerk shall issue an identification card to each individual
licensee having upon it the pertinent information contained in the license.
Agents and representatives of corporate and firm applicants shall be issued
similar identification cards. All the cards shall be shown upon request.
(Ord. 1309 §§ 1 (part), 2 (part), 1990)
5.12.130 Location regulated.
   No licensee hereunder shall have any exclusive right to any location in the
public street, nor shall any licensee be permitted a stationary location
(except as may be permitted with a temporary use permit), nor shall he transact
business within five hundred feet of a public school (except as may be
permitted with a temporary use permit), nor shall he be permitted to operate in
any congested area where his operations might impede or inconvenience the
public. For the purpose of this chapter, the judgment of a police officer,
exercised in good faith, shall be deemed conclusive as to whether the area is
congested or the public impeded or inconvenienced.
(Ord. 1309 §§ 1 (part), 2 (part), 1990)
5.12.140 Undue noise prohibited.
   No licensee nor any person in his behalf shall shout, make any outcry, blow
a horn, ring a bell or use any sound device, including any loud-speaking radio
or sound-amplifying system, upon any of the streets, alleys, parks or other
public places of the city or upon any private premises in the city where sound
of sufficient volume is emitted or produced therefrom to be capable of being
plainly heard upon the public thoroughfares for the purpose of attracting
attention to any goods, wares or merchandise which such licensee proposes to
sell without first having obtained a noise permit, in addition to the required
peddler license. Their permit must be obtained at the time of application for a
peddler's license.
(Ord. 1309 §§ 1 (part), 2 (part), 1990)
5.12.150 Administration and enforcement authority.
   A.   It shall be the duty of any police officer of the city or any other
designated city employee to enforce this chapter. The chief of police shall
report to the clerk all convictions for violation of this chapter, and the
clerk shall maintain a record for each license issued and record the reports of
violations therein.
   B.   Any person, firm, company or corporation violating any of the
provisions of this chapter is guilty of a petty offense and, if no other
punishment is provided, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not exceeding
one hundred dollars. Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 1309 §§ 1 (part), 2 (part), 1990)
5.12.160 Revocation of license when.
   Permits and licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter may be
revoked by the clerk after notice and hearing for any of the following causes:
   A.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements contained in the
application for license;
   B.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made in the course of
carrying on his business;
   C.   Any violation of this chapter;
   D.   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
   E.   Conducting business in an unlawful manner or in such manner as to
constitute a breach of the peace or to constitute a menace to public health,
safety or general welfare of the public.
(Ord. 1309 §§ 1 (part), 2 (part), 1990)
5.12.170 Violation.
   It is unlawful for any peddler, solicitor, canvasser or transient merchant,
their agents or representative, to come upon any premises whereon a sign
bearing the words “no peddlers” or “no canvassers” or “no solicitors” or any
combination of such terms or terms similar thereto is exposed to public view or
to remain on any whether such premises are posted as specified above or not.
(Ord. 1309 §§ 1 (part), 2 (part), 1990)
Chapter 5.16
MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
Sections:
5.16.010    Purpose
5.16.020   Definitions
5.16.030   Compliance with State and City Licensing Requirements
5.16.040   Operational Requirements
5.16.050   Fines; Penalties
5.16.010 Purpose.
   This chapter is adopted to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the
community of the City by enacting reasonable regulations for mobile food
vendors, their employees, agents, lessees or independent contractors, by
requiring compliance with minimum standards for safety and security. (Ord.
1397.05.05 § 2 (part), 2023)
5.16.020 Definitions.
   The below words and phrases, wherever used in this chapter shall be
construed as defined in this section unless, clearly from the context, a
different meaning is intended. Words used in the present tense include the
future tense, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words
in the singular number include the plural number.
   A.   "Legal parking space":
   1.   Means an area designated for vehicle parking in the City right-of-way
that is paved and may be delineated by road surface markings.
   2.   Does not include a parking space in a parking lot on property owned by
the City or any other non-right of way City owned parking space, or parking
spaces owned or controlled by other private persons or governmental entities or
agencies.
   B.   "Mobile food unit" means a food establishment that is licensed by this
state, that is readily movable and that dispenses food or beverages for
immediate service and consumption and other incidental retail items from any
vehicle as defined in A.R.S. § 28-101.
   C.   "Mobile food vendor" means any person who owns, controls, manages or
leases a mobile food unit or contracts with a person to prepare foods and vend
from, drive or operate a mobile food unit.
   D.   "Person" means an individual, partnership, corporation, association or
any other entity of whatever kind or nature.
   E.   "Right-of-way" means an area of land owned by the City and is used for
street or highway purposes.
   F.   "Semi-permanent structure" means equipment, or any dining area,
including, but not limited to, tables, chairs, booths, bar stools, benches, and
standup counters. (Ord. 1397.05.05 § 2 (part), 2023)
5.16.030 Compliance with State and City Licensing Requirements.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a mobile food unit or
act as a mobile food vendor without having first obtained a valid license from
the State of Arizona Department of Health Services pursuant to A.R.S. § 36-
1761.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a mobile food unit or
act as a mobile food vendor without having first obtained a valid business tax
receipt from the City pursuant to Casa Grande Municipal Code Chapter 5.04. In
addition to any other requirements of the Casa Grande Municipal Code, before
any person can receive a valid business tax receipt to operate a mobile food
unit, they must provide the City's Finance Department all of the following:
   i)   State of Arizona TPT license;
   ii)   State mobile food truck license required by subsection (A) above;
   iii)   Valid Pinal County Health approval to operate mobile food unit; and
   iv)   Valid Fire Inspection conducted within the preceding twelve (12)
months.
   C.    Each mobile food unit shall have its own business tax receipt issued
pursuant to Chapter 5.04. (Ord. 1397.05.05 § 2 (part), 2023)
5.16.040 Operational Requirements.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to operate a mobile food unit that does
not meet the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Fire Safety and Inspection. A mobile food vendor must ensure that all
mobile food units comply with the version of the International Fire Code in
effect at the time when the license is issued, state law, and the City of Casa
Grande code relating to fire and explosion safety standards.
   C.   A mobile food unit(s) shall be inspected by the City's Fire Department,
or the mobile food vendor shall provide evidence that the mobile food unit
passed a fire inspection by another city or town fire department in this state
within the preceding twelve (12) months.
   D.   Refuse, Trash and Litter Maintenance. A mobile food unit shall:
   1.   Provide a minimum of one fifteen (15) gallon trash receptacle within
fifteen (15) feet of each individual mobile food unit for customers and
employees;
   2.   Maintain an area around the mobile unit clear of litter, garbage,
rubble and debris; and
   3.   Transport the trash from the area of operation to an authorized waste
disposal location.
   E.   Noise Restrictions. No mobile food vendor shall blow a horn, ring a
bell or use any sound device, including any loud-speaking radio or sound-
amplifying system, upon any of the streets, alleys, parks or other public
places of the city or upon any private premises in the city where sound of
sufficient volume is emitted or produced therefrom to be capable of being
plainly heard upon the public thoroughfares for the purpose of attracting
attention to any mobile food unit without first having obtained a noise permit.
   F.   Security.
   1.   The mobile food unit and the surrounding vending area shall be
maintained in a safe and clean manner at all times.
   2.   A mobile food unit shall have adequate lighting to ensure customer
safety in the vending area. Lighting shall be directed downwards and away from
rights-of-way and adjacent properties.
   3.   The mobile food unit and its customers shall not obstruct the movement
of pedestrians or other vehicles using the sidewalk, street, alley, or other
public right-of-way.
   G.   Insurance.
   1.   If the mobile food unit operates an event sponsored by the City or
operates on public property, including rights-of-way or property owned by the
City, the mobile food vendor shall obtain insurance naming the City as an
additional insured in an amount as required by the City and in accordance with
the requirements of A.R.S. Title 9, Chapter 4, Article 7.2.
   2.   The insurance company issuing the policy shall be authorized to issue
commercial liability policies in Arizona by the Arizona Department of
Insurance.
   3.   The policy shall designate by manufacturer's serial or identification
number all mobile food units for which coverage is granted.
   4.   The policy shall insure the person named in the policy and any other
person using the mobile food vendor with the express or implied permission of
the named insured against any liability arising out of the ownership,
maintenance, or use of the mobile food unit in Arizona.
   H.   Location.
   1.   Residential Area. A mobile food vendor shall not operate in an area
zoned for single-family residential use, unless:
   a.   The mobile food unit is vending primarily ice cream products or similar
frozen food novelties, is operating in a right-of-way in compliance with
Subsection I. below or on a private street in a manner that does not impede the
flow of traffic, and is not parked within three hundred (300) feet of the same
location for more than one (1) hour at a time during an eight (8) hour period;
or
   b.   The mobile food unit is parked directly adjacent to a private
residential property, either in a right-of-way in compliance with Subsection I.
below or on a private street in a manner that does not impede the flow of
traffic, with the express permission of that private property owner for not
more than a total of four (4) days per calendar year. No more than three (3)
mobile food units shall be operating on a private residential property at any
one time; or
   c.   The mobile food unit is operating on non-residential private property
with the written permission of the private property owner authorizing mobile
food units at its location, proof of which shall be provided to the City upon
request, and in accordance with a validly approved Temporary Use Permit; or
   d.   The mobile food unit is parked directly adjacent to a public park, if
parking is generally permitted in compliance with Subsection I. below. For
purposes of this paragraph, directly adjacent to a public park includes only
parking on the same side of the street as the park; or
   e.   The mobile food unit is operated pursuant to a special event permitted
by the City.
   2.   City-Owned Property. A mobile food vendor shall only operate in a legal
parking space. If the mobile food vendor desires to operate on City property
other than a legal parking space, the mobile food vendor shall obtain
permission from the Deputy City Manager, or his/her designee. Generally,
requests shall be made at least ninety-six (96) hours in advance.
   3.   Private Property: A mobile food vendor shall only operate on private
property after obtaining written permission from the private property owner
authorizing mobile food units at the location, proof of which shall be provided
to the City upon request, and in accordance with a validly approved Temporary
Use Permit.
   I.   Parking. A mobile food unit shall comply with this subsection and
applicable law as it pertains to parking, unless parking is governed by a
separate subsection in this chapter.
   1.   A mobile food unit shall only operate in a legal parking space, unless
otherwise specified in this Section.
   2.   A mobile food unit, including any semi-permanent structure used or
associated with the mobile food unit, may use no more than one (1) legal
parking space, unless the mobile food vendor has a separate agreement with the
City to use additional legal parking spaces or parking spaces on City property
other than right-of-way.
   3.   No mobile food unit exceeding twenty-four (24) feet may park diagonally
in a diagonal parking space or park in any manner that occupies more than one
(1) diagonal parking space.
   4.   If parked in a legal parking space or on a public or private street, no
mobile food unit shall operate with the serving window facing street traffic.
   5.   A mobile food unit shall abide by all parking regulations, including
posted time limits. If there are no other time restrictions on the use of a
legal parking space, a mobile food unit shall not occupy a legal parking space
for more than six (6) hours in a twenty-four (24) hour period. "Occupy" within
this subsection means within one hundred (100) feet of the place in which the
mobile food unit was initially parked.
   6.   A mobile food vendor shall not claim or attempt to establish any
exclusive right to park at a particular street location unless the parking
space is part of a permitted event.
   J.   Signs. A mobile food vendor shall comply with the City Sign Code
pursuant to
Chapter 15.24 of the Casa Grande Municipal Code. (Ord. 1397.05.05 § 2 (part),
2023)
5.16.050 Fines; Penalties.
   A.   Any person, firm, company, or corporation violating any of the
provisions of this chapter is guilty of a petty offense and, if no other
punishment is provided, shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not
less than one hundred, nor more than three hundred, dollars for each violation.
Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   Habitual Offender. An "habitual offender" is a person who commits a
violation of any provision of this chapter, after having previously been found
responsible for two or more violations within a twenty-four-month period,
whether by admission, by payment of the fine, by default or judgment after
hearing. For purposes of this section, the dates of calculating the 24-month
period shall be the dates of commission of the offenses. Offenses committed by
habitual offenders, as defined herein, shall be treated as a Class 2
misdemeanor, punishable by a sentence of incarceration not to exceed four
months, a fine not to exceed $750 (exclusive of penalty assessments prescribed
by law), or both. (Ord. 1397.05.05 § 2 (part), 2023)
Chapter 5.20
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
Sections:
5.20.010   Purpose of provisions.
5.20.020   Definitions.
5.20.030   Exemptions.
5.20.040   License required.
5.20.050   License application requirements.
5.20.060   License—Investigation prior to issuance.
5.20.070   Trainee licensing requirements.
5.20.080   Denial of license.
5.20.090   License null and void when.
5.20.100   Revocation or suspension of license.
5.20.110   Home massage—Terms and conditions.
5.20.120   Restrictions on giving massages.
5.20.130   Penalties.
5.20.140   Conformance requirements.
5.20.150   Appeal procedure.
5.20.010 Purpose of provisions.
   It is intended that the provisions of this chapter shall operate to so
regulate the operation of massage establishments and the conduct of massage
therapists, as those terms are defined in this chapter, that they may serve the
legitimate health and physical massage needs of the residents of the community.
It is further intended that those establishments and individuals be so
regulated as to provide their services in compliance with minimal standards of
safety, hygiene and moral decency, to the end that the health, welfare and
morals of this community may be maintained.
(Ord. 536.6 § 1 (part), 1991; prior code § 10-6-1)
5.20.020 Definitions.
   In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
   “Massage establishment” means any place of business or establishment wherein
any of the subjects or methods of treatment listed in the definition of
“massage therapist” in this section are administered, practiced or used, or
from which is dispatched a person for the purpose of administering, practicing
or using any of the subjects or methods of treatment listed in the definition
of “massage therapist” in this section.
   “Massage therapist” means a person who has studied the underlying principles
of anatomy and physiology, including the theory of massage, its indications and
contra-indications and who practices or administers any of the following named
subjects and methods of treatment at any location in the city: oil rubs;
alcohol rubs; salt glows; hot or cold packs; tub, shower, or cabinet baths;
colon irrigation; and procedures upon the external parts of the body by hand or
by any electrical, mechanical, or vibratory apparatus, including stroking,
friction, kneading, rolling, vibrating, cupping, pettrasage, rubbing,
effleurage, and tapotement.
   “Recognized school of massage” means any institution of learning which has
for its purpose the teaching of the theory, method and work of massage
operators, which institution requires a resident course of study of not less
than one thousand hours before a student shall be furnished with a diploma or
certificate of graduation therefrom, showing the successful completion of such
course of study or learning. If located within the state, such institution
shall be licensed by the State Board of Private Technical and Business Schools.
(Ord. 536.6 § 1 (part), 1991; prior code § 10-6-2)
5.20.030 Exemptions.
   A.   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
   1.   Persons authorized by the laws of this state to practice medicine,
osteopathy, chiropractic, naturopathy or podiatry;
   2.   Registered nurses, licensed practical nurses or technicians, when
acting under the supervision of a licensed physician or osteopath;
   3.   Persons employed or acting as trainers for any bona fide amateur,
semiprofessional or professional athlete or athletic team;
   4.   Persons authorized by the laws of this state as barbers or
cosmetologists provided their activity is limited to the head, face or neck;
   5.   Registered physical therapists duly licensed by the state of Arizona.
   B.   Any exemption granted in this section is effective only to the extent
that the bona fide practice of the business profession of the person exempted
from overlaps into the field comprehended by this chapter, and exemptions
granted herein are solely for those activities which are performed in the
course of the bona fide practice of the business or profession of the person
exempted.
(Prior code § 10-6-14)
5.20.040 License required.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to practice or administer any subject or
method of treatment listed in paragraph two of Section
5.20.020, whether for a fee or gratuity, without first obtaining and
maintaining in effect a massage therapist license as required by this chapter
and paying the required business license fee.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person, association, firm or corporation to
operate, own, carry on, or permit to be operated, owned, conducted, or carried
on any massage establishment without first obtaining and maintaining in effect
a massage establishment license as required by this chapter and paying the
required business license fee.
(Ord. 536.6 § 1 (part), 1991; prior code § 10-6-3)
5.20.050 License application requirements.
   A.   Any person, association, firm, or corporation desiring to obtain a
massage establishment license or massage therapist license shall make
application in person to the city clerk who shall refer each such application
to the chief of police for appropriate investigation. A person desiring
licenses authorizing him to perform the activities of a massage therapist and,
in addition thereto, to conduct or operate a massage establishment shall submit
two separate applications.
   B.   The application for a massage establishment license shall be in
writing, signed by the applicant or applicants, or, if the application is in
the name of a corporation, the signature of each officer of the corporation,
and shall set forth:
   1.   The full name, address and social security number of the applicant;
   2.   The full name of the business and the address of the premises for which
the application is being made;
   3.   A statement that the applicant is of good moral character;
   4.   A statement that the contents of the application are true;
   5.   Proof that the applicant is an adult;
   6.   The type of business entity such as sole proprietorship, partnership or
corporation and, in the cases of a corporation, the names and addresses of all
officers, directors and stockholders of the corporation;
   7.   The name and address of the owner of the building where such massage
business will be located;
   8.   Certified copies of any lease or rental agreements governing the
applicant's rights in the building;
   9.   Each residence address of officers for the ten years next preceding the
date of the application.
   C.   All information required under the terms of subsection B of this
section for the applicant shall also be provided for every person who, directly
or indirectly, has any right to participate in the management or control of the
business to be conducted at the premises of the proposed massage establishment.
   D.   The application for a massage therapist license shall be presented in
person by the applicant to the city clerk, shall be in writing, signed by the
applicant, and shall set forth:
   1.   The full name, address, age and social security number of the
applicant;
   2.   A statement that the applicant is of good moral character;
   3.   Proof that applicant is an adult;
   4.   A list of all training in massage that the applicant has received;
   5.   A statement that the contents of the application are true;
   6.   Each residence address of applicant for the ten years next preceding
the date of application.
(Ord. 536.6 § 1 (part), 1991; prior code § 10-6-4)
5.20.060 License—Investigation prior to issuance.
   The police department shall have a reasonable time in which to investigate
the application and the background of each applicant. Based on the
investigation, the police department shall recommend to the city clerk approval
or denial of the license. If the recommendation is for denial, the grounds upon
which the recommendation is made shall be set forth in writing.
(Prior code § 10-6-5)
5.20.070 Trainee licensing requirements.
   A.   No massage therapist license shall be issued if the applicant fails to
furnish a diploma or certificate of graduation from a recognized school of
massage.
   B.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A of this section, a
trainee massage therapist license may be issued if the applicant has furnished
written proof that he is enrolled in a recognized school of massage and has
completed one hundred fifty hours of the required course of study. The license
shall expire six months after issuance and may at that time, or at any time
prior to expiration, be converted to that of a regular massage therapist upon
furnishing a diploma or certificate of graduation from a recognized school of
massage. No additional cost shall be borne by the applicant for such
conversion.
(Ord. 536.6 § 1 (part), 1991; prior code § 10-6-6)
5.20.080 Denial of license.
   A.   No massage establishment license or massage therapist license shall be
issued or renewed if the applicant has been convicted within the last five
years of any felony or other offense involving moral turpitude, if the
applicant is addicted to dangerous or narcotic drugs, or makes excessive use of
alcohol, or if the application was deliberately falsified.
   B.   The city clerk may refuse to issue or renew a massage establishment
license or massage therapist license if the applicant has been convicted of any
offense involving prostitution, of any offense involving indecent exposure or
pornography, of any offense involving abortion, child molesting, lewd and
lascivious acts, as enumerated in this code and as defined in the Arizona
Revised Statutes, sodomy or forcible rape, or of any felony offense involving
dangerous or narcotic drugs.
(Ord. 536.6 § 1 (part), 1991; prior code § 10-6-7)
5.20.090 License null and void when.
   Upon the sale or transfer of any interest in a massage establishment, the
license therefor shall forthwith become null and void. A new application shall
be made by any person, association, firm or corporation desiring to own or
operate the establishment. The provisions of Section
5.20.050 shall apply to any person, association, firm or corporation applying
for a massage establishment license for the premises previously used as such
establishment.
(Prior code § 10-6-8)
5.20.100 Revocation or suspension of license.
   A.   The license of a massage therapist or of a massage establishment may be
revoked or suspended, or the issuance or renewal thereof denied, upon any one
of the following grounds:
   1.   That the licensee is guilty of fraud in conducting the business of
massage therapist or massage establishment, or of fraud or deceit in obtaining
a license to conduct such business;
   2.   That the licensee has been convicted in a court of competent
jurisdiction of a felony or of any offense involving prostitution, homosexual
behavior, indecent exposure, pornography or lewd and lascivious acts as
enumerated in this code and as defined in the Arizona Revised Statutes;
   3.   That the licensee is addicted to the habitual use of intoxicating
liquors, narcotics or stimulants to such an extent as to incapacitate him for
the performance of professional duties;
   4.   That the licensee is guilty of untrue, fraudulent, misleading or
deceptive advertising;
   5.   That the licensee is grossly ignorant of or guilty of wilful negligence
in the business of massage therapist or massage establishment;
   6.   That the licensee is engaged in the business of massage therapist or
massage establishment under a false or assumed name, or is impersonating
another practitioner of a like or different name;
   7.   That the licensee has violated any of the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   To suspend or revoke a license, the city clerk shall deliver personally
to the licensee, or by certified mail at the business address as shown on the
application or otherwise more recently of record, a written notice that the
license is suspended or revoked. The cause for the suspension or revocation
shall be set forth in the notice. A suspended or revoked license shall
besurrendered to the city clerk on demand.
   C.   No person, association, firm or corporation may apply for any massage
therapist or massage establishment license within one year from the denial of
any license to the applicant or from the suspension, revocation or nonrenewal
of any license, unless the cause of the denial, suspension, revocation or
nonrenewal has been removed to the satisfaction of the city clerk.
(Ord. 536.6 § 1 (part), 1991; prior code § 10-6-9)
5.20.110 Home massage—Terms and conditions.
   Massages may be administered in the home of the patron by any massage
therapist having a license issued in accordance with the terms of this chapter
provided massages are prescribed in writing by a physician duly licensed to
practice medicine in the state of Arizona and the physician certifies that the
patron is unable for medical reasons to obtain such in a massage establishment.
(Ord. 536.6 § 1 (part), 1991; prior code § 10-6-10)
5.20.120 Restrictions on giving massages.
   No massage therapist shall administer a massage:
   A.   If the massage therapist knows, or should know that he is not free of
any contagious or communicable disease or infection;
   B.   To any massage patron exhibiting any skin fungus, skin infection, skin
inflammation or skin eruption, but a physician may certify that the person may
be safely massaged prescribing the condition therefor;
   C.   To any person who is not free of communicable disease or infection or
whom the massage therapist believes or has reason to believe is not free of
communicable disease or infection.
(Ord. 536.6 § 1 (part), 1991; prior code § 10-6-11)
5.20.130 Penalties.
   Wherever in this chapter any act is prohibited or declared to be unlawful,
and wherever in this chapter the doing of any act is required or the failure to
do any act is declared to be unlawful, the violation of any such provision of
this chapter is a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than three
hundred dollars, or imprisonment for not more than three months, or by both
such fine and imprisonment. Each day the violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense. Revocation or suspension of a license shall not be a defense
against prosecution.
(Prior code § 10-6-13)
5.20.140 Conformance requirements.
   Any person who has applied for a license under the provisions of this
chapter within the six months immediately preceding the effective date of the
ordinance codified in this chapter shall be issued a temporary permit or
license and shall have three months from the effective date of the ordinance
codified in this chapter to conform to the provisions hereof.
(Prior code § 10-6-15)
5.20.150 Appeal procedure.
   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the city clerk, or other person to
whom is delegated the administration of this chapter with respect to the
issuance or refusal to issue the license may appeal to the city council by
filing with the clerk a notice of appeal. The council shall thereupon fix a
time and a place for hearing the appeal. The clerk shall give notice to the
person of the time and place of hearing by serving it personally or by
depositing it in the United States Post Office at Casa Grande, Arizona, postage
prepaid, addressed to the person at his last known address.
(Prior code § 10-6-16)
Chapter 5.24
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Sections:
5.24.010   Declaration of public record.
5.24.020   Criminal penalty.
5.24.030   Civil injunction.
5.24.040   Strict liability and liability for the conduct of others.
5.24.050   Procedure for amendment.
5.24.010 Declaration of public record.
   That certain document known as “The Adult Entertainment Ordinance of the
City of Casa Grande, Arizona,” three copies of which are on file in the office
of the city clerk which document was made a public record by Resolution No.
2089 of the city is referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set
out in this chapter.
(Ord. 1397.05.2 § 1, 1993)
5.24.020 Criminal penalty.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or of the city code as
amended by this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction,
shall be punished by a fine not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars or
by imprisonment for a term not to exceed six months, or by both fine and
imprisonment.
(Ord. 1397.05.2 § 2, 1993)
5.24.030 Civil injunction.
   Any person who violates this chapter, or the city code as amended by this
chapter, is subject to a civil suit for injunction as well as prosecution for
criminal violations and liability for licensing sanctions such as suspension or
revocation.
(Ord. 1397.05.2 § 3, 1993)
5.24.040 Strict liability and liability for the conduct of others.
   A.   The offenses and violations described in this chapter are strict
liability offenses and violations requiring no proof of culpable mental state.
   B.   A licensee of a sexually oriented business is jointly and individually
liable for violations of and offenses under this chapter by the employees of
the sexually oriented business, and for all civil and criminal sanctions or
remedies for such violations and offenses, including but not limited to license
suspension or revocation, prescribed herein.
(Ord. 1397.05.2 § 4, 1993)
5.24.050 Procedure for amendment.
   Section 5.24.120 of the city code as enacted in the adult entertainment
ordinance adopted by reference in this chapter may be amended only after
compliance with the legal procedures required to amend zoning regulations.
Other sections of said ordinance or of the city code established under this
chapter may be amended directly by vote of the city council.
(Ord. 1397.05.2 § 7, 1993)
Chapter 5.28
SHORT-TERM RENTALS
Sections:
5.28.010   Purpose.
5.28.020   Definitions
5.28.030   Permit required; penalties.
5.28.040   Emergency point of contact requirements.
5.28.050   Compliance with the law; prohibited uses.
5.28.060   Neighbor notification required.
5.28.070   Posting on the property required.
5.28.080   Permit suspensions; appeal.
5.28.090   Judicial relief.
5.28.100   Enforcement of chapter; civil violations; penalties; habitual
offenders.
5.28.110   Appeals.
5.28.010 Purpose.
   This chapter is adopted to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the
community of the city by enacting reasonable regulations for short-term
rentals. These regulations are in addition to other codes of the city. (Ord.
1397.05.06 § 1 (part), 2024)
5.28.020 Definitions. 
   In this chapter, unless the context or definitions in A.R.S. § 9-500.39
indicate otherwise, the following terms or phrases are defined as follows:
   “Advertisement” means any method of soliciting the use of property for
short-term rental purposes.
   “Applicant” means the owner or owner's designee who applies with the city
for a permit or renewal of a permit.
   “City” shall mean the City of Casa Grande.
   “City manager” shall mean the city manager or his or her designee.
   “Days” shall mean calendar days unless stated otherwise.
   “Designee” and “agent” are interchangeable for purposes of this chapter and
mean any person or persons with the charge, care, or control of any property,
dwelling unit, or portion thereof.
   “Designee” includes the “emergency point of contact.”
   “Emergency point of contact” means the owner or individual designated by the
owner to:
   (i) serve as the local twenty-four (24) hour emergency point of contact for
the short-term rental; and (ii) respond to complaints and emergencies relating
to the short-term rental in a timely manner as required by this chapter.
   “Finance director” shall mean the city finance director or his or her
designee.
   “Neighbor notification” means the written notice provided by the owner to
each single-family residential property adjacent to the short-term rental
property, directly across from the short-term rental property, and diagonally
across the street of the short-term rental property, or if the short-term
rental is in a multifamily residential building, written notice provided to
each resident on the same floor within the building as the short-term rental,
that includes the valid permit number issued by the city, the physical address
of the short-term rental, and the name, address, and twenty-four (24) hour
telephone number of the emergency point of contact in the form required by the
city.
   “Nonresidential use” means any use that is not principally permitted in a
residential zoning district.
   “Owner” means any person who, alone or with others, has title or interest in
a property, dwelling unit, or portion thereof, with or without accompanying
actual possession thereof, and includes any person who as agent, executor,
administrator, trustee, or guardian has charge, care, or control of any
property, dwelling unit, or portion thereof.
   “Permit” means authorization by the city to operate a short-term rental in
accordance with this chapter.
   “Person” means an individual, public entity, firm, corporation, partnership,
limited liability company, trust, association, or any other business entity or
juridical person, whether operating on a for-profit or nonprofit basis.
   “Short-term rental” means any individually or collectively owned single-
family or one-to-four-family house or dwelling unit, or any unit or group of
units in a condominium or cooperative, that is also a transient public lodging
establishment or owner-occupied residential home offered for transient use.
“Short-term rental” does not include:
   (i)   Accommodations or property that is classified for property taxation
under A.R.S. § 42-12001; or
   (ii)   Any unit that is used for any nonresidential use, including a special
event that would otherwise require a permit, retail, restaurant, banquet space,
or other similar use.
   “Timely manner” means responding to complaints in person, by phone, or by
email within 60 minutes if contacted by a police officer for an emergency or 24
hours if contacted for a non-emergency.
   “Transaction privilege tax license” is the license issued by the State of
Arizona pursuant to A.R.S., Title 42.
   “Transient” has the same meaning prescribed in A.R.S. § 42-5070.
   “Verified violation” means a finally adjudicated finding of guilt or civil
responsibility for violating any state law or local ordinance regulating the
operation of a short-term rental. (Ord. 1397.05.06 § 1 (part), 2024)
5.28.030 Permit required; penalties.
   A.   Permit required. Prior to use of a property as a short-term rental, the
owner shall obtain an annual short-term rental permit from the city. Renting,
or offering for rent, a short-term rental without complying with the permit
requirement in this section is prohibited.
   B.   Permit applications. The owner of a proposed short-term rental shall
submit to the city a permit application on a form furnished by the city. The
permit application, which shall be made publicly available, shall be signed by
the applicant and shall contain the following minimum information:
   1.   The physical address of the residential property proposed to be used as
a short-term rental.
   2.   The name, address, and telephone number of the owner for which the
short-term rental registration certificate is to be issued. If the property
owner is an entity, the legal name of the entity and its statutory agent.
   3.   The name, address, and telephone number of each designee of the owner,
if any.
   4.   The full name, address, and 24-hour telephone number of the individual
who will serve as the emergency point of contact.
   5.   Proof of a valid transaction privilege tax license.
   6.   Evidence the short-term rental is registered with Pinal County
Assessor's Office in accordance with A.R.S. § 33-1902.
   7.   Acknowledgment by the owner of an agreement to comply with all
applicable laws, regulations, and ordinances, including the requirement that
the owner and each designee shall not be a registered sex offender, been
convicted of any felony act that resulted in death or serious physical injury,
or been convicted of any felony use of a deadly weapon within the past five
years.
   C.   Permit fee. Every application, including any renewal application, for a
short-term rental permit under this chapter shall be accompanied by a non-
refundable fee established by city's consolidated fee schedule as may be
amended from time to time.
   D.   Issuance; reasons for denial. City will issue or deny the permit within
7 business days of receipt of the information required by subsection B. of this
section; the city may only deny the issuance of the permit for any of the
following reasons:
   1.   The applicant failed to provide the information required in subsection
B. of this section;
   2.   The applicant failed to pay the permit fee required in subsection C. of
this section;
   3.   At the time of application, the owner has a suspended permit for the
same short-term rental;
   4.   The applicant provided false information; or
   5.   The owner or designee of the owner: (i) is a registered sex offender;
(ii) has been convicted of any felony act that resulted in death or serious
physical injury; or (iii) has been convicted of any felony use of a deadly
weapon within five years of submitting the application.
   E.   Notice of denial; appeal. If the permit is denied as provided for
herein, the Finance Director shall deliver a written notice of denial to the
applicant by either e-mailing the notice to the e-mail address provided by the
owner on the permit application or by mailing the notice to the mailing address
provided by the owner on the permit application. The written notice shall be
deemed delivered one day after sending the notice by e-mail or three days after
sending the notice by mail. The written notice of the denial shall inform the
applicant of the right to appeal the denial as provided for in Section
5.28.110.
   F.   Failure to obtain a permit. A short-term rental that fails to apply for
a permit or license within 30 days of the permit application being made
available by the city shall immediately cease operations.
   G.   Maintaining accurate information; violations. All applicants and
persons holding permits issued pursuant to this chapter shall give written
notice to the finance director of any change in information submitted in
connection with an application for a permit or renewal of a permit. The notice
shall be provided to the finance director not less than ten days prior to the
effective date of the change.
   H.   Term of permit; renewal application. All permits issued under this
chapter shall be valid for a period of one year from the date of their issuance
unless suspended or revoked before then as provided for in this chapter. Except
where the city has received a new application along with the requisite fees, it
shall be unlawful for any person to operate a short-term rental after the
expiration date recorded upon the face of the short-term rental permit.
   I.   Non-transferable. No permit shall be transferable either as to location
or as to person.
   J.   Implementation. The city manager shall develop the necessary forms and/
or database necessary to implement this section and any other section, as
necessary, within this chapter.
   K.   Accessory dwelling units. The owner of a short-term rental shall reside
on the property if the property contains an accessory dwelling unit that is
being used as a short-term rental and was constructed on or after September 14,
2024. Unless the time period specified in Arizona Revised Statutes Section 12-
1134, Subsection G has expired, this section does not apply to a property owner
who has the right to build an accessory dwelling unit on the property owner's
property before September 14, 2024, whether or not the accessory dwelling unit
has been built. (Ord. 1397.05.06 § 1 (part), 2024)
5.28.040 Emergency point of contact requirements. 
   A.   Emergency responses; violations. When required by public safety
personnel, the owner or emergency point of contact whose name appears on the
permit application must be on the short-term rental premises within a timely
manner of the request.
   B.   Non-emergency responses; violations. The owner or emergency point of
contact shall respond to all other complaints relating to the short-term rental
in person, over the phone, by e-mail, or by text within a timely manner.
   C.   Maintaining accurate emergency information. All applicants and persons
holding permits issued pursuant to this chapter shall give prior written notice
to the finance director of any change to the contact information provided to
the city for the emergency point of contact. the notice shall be provided to
the finance director not less than ten days prior to the effective date of the
change.
(Ord. 1397.05.06 § 1 (part), 2024)
5.28.050 Compliance with the law; Prohibited uses.
   A.   A short-term rental shall comply with all federal, state, and local
laws, including laws relating to public health and safety, sanitation, solid
waste, hazardous waste, tax privilege licensing, property tax registration,
traffic control, pollution control, noise, property maintenance, and nuisance
abatement.
   B.   No person or entity shall operate a short-term rental in violation of
this chapter or other law. In addition, the use of a short-term rental property
for any of the following uses or purposes is strictly prohibited:
   1.   Any nonresidential use;
   2.   Holding a special event that requires a permit or license pursuant to a
city ordinance or state law or rule;
   3.   Operating a retail business, restaurant, event center, banquet hall or
similar use;
   4.   Housing sex offenders;
   5.   Operating or maintaining a sober living home;
   6.   Selling liquor, illegal drugs, or pornography;
   7.   Nude or topless dancing;
   8.   Obscenity as prohibited by A.R.S. Title 13, Chapter 35;
   9.   Adult-oriented business; or
   10.   Any other use prohibited by A.R.S. § 9-500.39 or the city Code.
   C.   No person or entity may receive payment or accept a fee, directly or
indirectly, for facilitating the rental of a short-term rental operating in
violation of this Code or other law.
   D.   The failure of any designee to comply with this chapter shall not
relieve the owner of liability under this chapter.
(Ord. 1397.05.06 § 1 (part), 2024)
5.28.060 Neighbor notification required. 
   A.   Neighbor notification. Prior to offering a short-term rental, that has
been permitted pursuant to this chapter, for rent for the first time, the owner
or designee shall provide neighbor notification.
   B.   Additional neighbor notification required. Any change to the
information provided under subsection A shall require additional neighbor
notification by the owner or designee not later than five days prior to each
change.
   C.   Attestation. Within seven days of completing the neighbor notification
required in this section, or prior to renting the short-term rental for the
first time after providing the neighbor notification required by this section,
whichever is earlier, the owner or designee shall provide to the city an
attestation of compliance with the neighbor notification required by this
section in a form provided by the city. (Ord. 1397.05.06 § 1 (part), 2024)
5.28.070 Posting on the property required. 
   The owner of the short-term rental must display the name, phone number, and
email address of the owner, the owner's designee(s), and the emergency point of
contact in a conspicuous place on an interior wall that is clearly visible upon
entry through the primary entrance of the short-term rental. (Ord. 1397.05.06 §
1 (part), 2024)
5.28.080 Permit suspensions; Appeal.
   A.   Permit suspensions. The city may suspend a short-term rental permit for
a period of up to 12 months for any of the following:
   1.   Three verified violations of this chapter within a 12-month period, not
including any such violation based on an aesthetic, solid waste disposal or
vehicle parking violation that is not also a serious threat to public health
and safety.
   2.   One verified violation that results in or constitutes any of the
following:
   a.   A felony offense committed at or in the vicinity of a short-term rental
by the owner of the short-term rental or by the owner's designee;
   b.   A serious physical injury or wrongful death at or related to a short-
term rental resulting from the knowing, intentional or reckless conduct of the
owner of the short-term rental or the owner's designee;
   c.   The owner of the short-term rental or the owner's designee knowingly or
intentionally housing a sex offender, allowing offenses related to adult-
oriented businesses, sexual offenses, or prostitution, or operating or
maintaining a sober living home; or
   d.   The owner of the short-term rental or the owner's designee knowingly or
intentionally allowing the use of a short-term rental for a special event that
would otherwise require a permit or license pursuant to the city code or a
state law or rule or for a retail, restaurant, banquet space or other similar
use.
   B.   Appeals. A decision to suspend a permit may be appealed by the owner as
set forth in Section
5.28.110. (Ord. 1397.05.06 § 1 (part), 2024)
5.28.090 Judicial relief. 
   A.   Notwithstanding Section
5.28.080, any attempted or completed felony act, arising from the occupancy or
use of a short-term rental that results in a death, or actual or attempted
serious physical injury, shall be grounds for judicial relief in the form of a
suspension of the property's use as a short-term rental for a period that shall
not exceed 12 months.
   B.   The city attorney may initiate proceedings in the city court or other
court of competent jurisdiction to enforce this section. (Ord. 1397.05.06 § 1
(part), 2024)
5.28.100 Enforcement of chapter; Civil violations; Penalties; Habitual
offenders.
   A.   In addition to police officers and code enforcement officers, the city
manager may designate additional employees of the city authorized to determine
compliance with, and issue civil citations pursuant to, this chapter.
   B.   The remedies in this chapter are cumulative and the city may proceed
under one or more such remedies.
   C.   In addition to any other penalty pursuant to the city Code, any person
who causes, allows, facilitates, aides, or abets a violation of any provision
of this chapter shall be charged with a civil offense and, if found
responsible, shall be punished by a fine of $250 (exclusive of penalty
assessments prescribed by law) for each violation.
   D.   Each day that a violation of this chapter continues shall constitute a
separate violation.
   E.   Habitual offender. A “habitual offender” is a person who commits a
violation of any provision of this chapter after having previously been found
responsible for two or more violations within a 24-month period, whether by
admission, by payment of the fine, by default or judgment after hearing. For
purposes of this section, the dates of calculating the 24-month period shall be
the dates of commission of the offenses. Offenses committed by habitual
offenders, as defined herein, shall be treated as a Class 2 misdemeanor,
punishable by a sentence of incarceration not to exceed four months, a fine not
to exceed $750 (exclusive of penalty assessments prescribed by law), or both.
   F.   Penalties for operating without a permit. In addition to ceasing
operations immediately and any other penalty pursuant to the city code, the
city may impose a civil penalty of up to $1,000 per month against the owner if
the owner or owner's designee fails to apply for permit within 30 days of
receiving a written notice of violation from the city. The written notice of
violation shall be delivered by mailing it to the tax bill address of the
property on file with the Pinal County Assessor. The written notice of
violation shall be deemed delivered three days after the date of mailing.
Representations or advertisements including online listings that reference the
property, house or dwelling unit location within the city is prima facie
evidence that a short-term rental is operating in the city.
   G.   Penalties for failure to maintain accurate emergency information. In
addition to any other penalty pursuant to the city Code, an owner shall be
subject to civil penalties of up to $1,000 for every 30 days the owner fails to
provide notice to the city as required by Section
5.28.040. Before imposing the initial civil penalty, the city shall provide 30
days' notice to the owner by delivering a written notice of violation. The
written notice of violation shall be delivered either by e-mailing the notice
to the e-mail address provided by the owner on the permit application or by
mailing the notice to the mailing address provided by the owner on the permit
application. This written notice shall be deemed delivered one day after
sending the notice by e-mail or three days after sending the notice by mail.
Notwithstanding the date of the notice of violation, the date for calculating
the penalties shall be the first day the short-term rental is occupied
following the owner's failure to provide the notice to the city regarding the
change.
   H.   In addition to any other penalty pursuant to the city code, and
notwithstanding any other law, the city may impose a civil penalty of the
following amounts against an owner if the owner causes, allows, facilitates,
aides, or abets a verified violation of any provision of this chapter or fails
to perform any act or duty required by this chapter, related to the same short-
term rental property within the same 12-month period:
   1.   Up to $500 or up to an amount equal to one night's rent for the short-
term rental as advertised, whichever is greater, for the first violation.
   2.   Up to $1,000 or up to an amount equal to two nights' rent for the
short-term rental as advertised, whichever is greater, for the second
violation.
   3.   Up to $3,500 or up to an amount equal to three nights' rent for the
short-term rental as advertised, whichever is greater, for a third and any
subsequent violation.
If multiple violations arise out of the same response to an incident at a
short-term rental, those violations are considered one violation for the
purpose of assessing civil penalties. (Ord. 1397.05.06 § 1 (part), 2024)
5.28.110 Appeals. 
   A.   Any person aggrieved by any decision with respect to the denial of or a
refusal to issue a short-term rental permit, the suspension of a short-term
rental permit, or a penalty imposed pursuant to this chapter may appeal the
decision by filing a written notice of appeal with the city manager’s office no
later than 30 days from the date of the decision letter. The notice of appeal
shall be on a form approved by the city.
   B.   Upon receipt of the appeal, the city manager's office will set a date
and time for the appeal, said hearing date shall be within 15 business days of
receipt of the appeal.
   C.   The deputy city manager will be the hearing officer for these appeals.
If the deputy city manager is unavailable to hear the appeal on the set hearing
date, the city manager will designate another employee to hear the appeal.
   D.   The appellant shall be given an opportunity to present testimonial,
documentary, and other evidence.
   E.   The hearing will be conducted informally, and technical rules of
evidence shall not apply. Any and all evidence which the hearing officer deems
reliable, relevant and not unduly repetitious may be considered.
   F.   An appeal under this section does not operate as a stay of the permit
suspension.
   G.   This section is not applicable to judicial actions brought pursuant to
Section 5.28.090 or to penalties, including fines, imposed by a court. (Ord.
1397.05.06 § 1 (part), 2024)
Title 6
ANIMALS
Chapters:
6.04   Dogs and Cats
6.05   Potbellied Pigs
6.06   Backyard Fowl
6.08   Animal Control Regulations Generally
6.12   Impoundment
Chapter 6.04
DOGS AND CATS
Sections:
6.04.010   Definitions.
6.04.020   License requirements.
6.04.030   License—Vaccination requirements.
6.04.040   Running at large prohibited.
6.04.050   Causes for impoundment.
6.04.060   Biting dogs to be reported immediately.
6.04.070   Dog fighting prohibited.
6.04.080   Dog fighting violation—Penalty.
6.04.010 Definitions.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   “At large” means being neither confined by an enclosure nor physically
restrained by a leash nor under control of the owner, or other persons acting
for the owner.
   “Cat” means a member of the feline family.
   “Collar” means a band, harness or suitable device worn around the neck of a
dog to which a license may be affixed.
   “Dog” means a member of the canis familiaris family.
   “Owner” means any person owning, keeping, possessing, harboring or
maintaining a dog or cat.
   “Pound” or “animal shelter” means any establishment authorized by the city
for confinement, maintenance, safekeeping and control of animals that come into
custody of the city.
   “Vaccination” means an antirabies vaccination using a type of vaccine
approved by the state veterinarian.
(Ord. 1397.06.3 § 2 (part), 1994; prior code § 8-3-1)
6.04.020 License requirements.
   A.   All dogs and cats kept, harbored or maintained in the city must be
licensed if over four months of age. Dog and cat licenses shall be issued by
the city or its designated agents upon payment of license fees as prescribed in
Section
6.12.080 of this code. All licenses shall expire on the last day of the month
on year after the license is issued. The owner shall state, at the time
application is made for such license, his name and address, his telephone
number, the name, breed, color and sex of each dog and cat owned or kept by
him.
   B.   If the license is not obtained by the owner prior to the expiration
date of the license, or within thirty days of the date of first possession of
any dog or cat, or of its becoming four months old, or within thirty days from
the arrival of the dog or cat in the city, the license payment shall be deemed
delinquent and a penalty as provided in the fee schedule set forth in Section
6.12.080 of this code shall be paid.
   C.   A guide dog belonging to a blind person or to any bona fide nonprofit
organization which is in the business of breeding, raising or training dogs
that are to be used for guiding the blind shall not be required to pay a
license fee.
   D.   Each dog or cat licensed under the terms of this chapter shall receive,
at the time of licensing, a tag on which shall be inscribed the name of the
city, the number of license and the date in which it expires.
   E.   Any person who knowingly fails within fifteen days after written
notification from the animal control officer to obtain a license for a animal
required to be licensed, or counterfeits an official animal license or removes
the license from the animal for the purpose of intentional and malicious
mischief or places a animal license upon an animal unless the license was
issued for that particular animal is guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor.
   F.   Whenever the ownership of a dog or cat has been changed, the new owner
shall secure a transfer of license to the owner.
   G.   Dogs, while being used for hunting or dogs and cats while being
exhibited at shows or dogs while engaged in races approved by the Arizona
Racing Commission and dogs or cats while being transported to and from such
events, need not have the license tag affixed to the animal; provided, that the
animals are properly vaccinated and licensed. The owner, handler or agent for
owner shall be in physical possession of animal's license.
   H.   Any animal subject to licensing under this chapter found not to be
wearing a license shall be deemed unowned.
(Ord. 1397.06.3 § 2 (part), 1994; prior code § 8-3-2)
6.04.030 License—Vaccination requirements.
   A.   Before a license is issued for any dog or cat, the owner must present a
vaccination certificate signed by a veterinarian stating the owner's name and
address and giving the dog's or cat's description, date of vaccination and
type, manufacturer and serial number of the vaccine and date revaccination is
due. A duplicate of each rabies vaccination certificate issued shall be
transmitted to the city on or before the tenth day of the month following the
month during which the dog or cat was vaccinated. No dog or cat shall be
licensed unless it is vaccinated in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter and the regulations promulgated hereunder.
   B.   A dog or cat vaccinated in any other place prior to entry into the city
may be licensed in the city provided that at the time of licensing, the owner
of the dog or cat presents a vaccination certificate, signed by a veterinarian
licensed to practice in that place or a veterinarian employed by a governmental
agency in that place, stating the owner's name and address and giving the dog's
or cat's description, date of vaccination and type, manufacturer and serial
number of the vaccine used. The vaccination must be in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter and the regulations promulgated hereunder.
   C.   The animal control officer shall make provisions for low-cost
vaccination clinics as he deems necessary. The vaccination shall be performed
by a veterinarian.
   D.   If a dog or cat is impounded and found to be unvaccinated, the animal
control officer is authorized to cause the dog or cat to be vaccinated at a
cost to be borne by the owner. The vaccination shall be performed by a
veterinarian, who shall issue a certificate of vaccination.
(Prior code § 8-3-3)
6.04.040 Running at large prohibited.
   A.   No person owning, keeping, possessing, harboring or maintaining a dog
shall allow the dog to be at large. A dog is not deemed to be at large:
   1.   While the dog is actively engaged in a dog obedience training,
accompanied by and under the control of his owner or trainer, and that such dog
is actually enrolled in or has graduated from a dog obedience training school
which has been approved by the animal control officer;
   2.   While the dog is being used for hunting purposes;
   3.   While the dog is being exhibited at an American Kennel Club approved
show;
   4.   While the dog is engaged in races approved by the Arizona Racing
Commission.
   B.   No person in charge of any dog shall permit the dog in a public park or
upon any public school property unless the dog is physically restrained by a
leash, enclosed in a car, cage or similar enclosure, or being exhibited or
trained at a recognized Kennel Club event, public school or park sponsored
event.
   C.   The animal control officer may apprehend and impound any dog running at
large contrary to the provisions of this section.
(Prior code § 8-3-4)
6.04.050 Causes for impoundment.
   A.   The animal control officer may apprehend and impound any dog or cat
found without a current valid license tag.
   B.   Any dog or cat that bites any person shall be quarantined and impounded
or, at the request of and at the expense of the owner, placed in a veterinary
hospital for a period of not less than ten days. The owner of any dog or cat
that has bitten a person may voluntarily deliver the dog or cat. If the dog or
cat is impounded for observation as a result of a dog or cat bite incident, the
fee schedule shall determine the charges to be made. A dog or cat properly
licensed and vaccinated pursuant to these regulations that bites any person,
may be confined and quarantined at the home of the owner or wherever the dog or
cat is harbored and maintained with the consent of and in a manner prescribed
by the animal control officer.
(Ord. 1397.06.3 § 2 (part), 1994; prior code § 8-3-5)
6.04.060 Biting dogs to be reported immediately.
   Whenever a dog or cat bites any person, the incident shall be reported to
the city police department or animal control officer immediately by any person
having direct knowledge.
(Prior code § 8-3-6)
6.04.070 Dog fighting prohibited.
   A.   A person commits dog fighting by knowingly:
   1.   Owning, possessing, keeping or training any dogs with the intent that
the dogs engage in an exhibition of fighting with another dog;
   2.   Causing any dog to fight with another dog, or causing any dog to injure
another dog for amusement or gain;
   3.   Permitting any act in violation of subdivisions 1 or 2 above to be done
on any premises under his charge or control.
   B.   Dog fighting is unlawful and punishable pursuant to state law.
(Ord. 1397.06.3 § 2 (part), 1994: prior code § 8-3-11)
6.04.080 Dog fighting violation—Penalty.
   Any person who is knowingly present at any place or building where
preparations are being made for an exhibition of the fighting of dogs, or is
present at such exhibition, is guilty of a crime punishable pursuant to state
law.
(Ord. 1397.06.3 § 2 (part), 1994: prior code § 8-3-12)
Chapter 6.05
POTBELLIED PIGS
Sections:
6.05.010   Definitions.
6.05.020   Licenses and tags.
6.05.030   Running at large.
6.05.040   Impoundment.
6.05.050   Keeping of potbellied pigs.
6.05.060   Number permitted.
6.05.070   Commercial breeding prohibited.
6.05.010 Definitions.
   In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
   A.   “Potbellied pig” means only registered purebred miniature Vietnamese
potbellied pigs or other similar purebred miniature potbellied pigs which shall
not exceed one hundred pounds in weight.
   B.   “Registered” means registration by the North American Potbellied Pig
Association.
(Ord. 1397.06.2 § 3 (part), 1992)
6.05.020 License and tags.
   A.   All potbellied pigs kept, harbored or maintained in the city must be
licensed and registered if over four months of age. Licenses shall be issued by
the city or its designated agents upon payment of license fees as prescribed in
Section
6.12.080 of this title. All licenses will be stamped with a month and year
expiration date and shall expire on the last day of the month. Upon expiration,
a penalty of one and one-half percent, not less than fifty cents, per month
will be assessed. The owner shall state at the time application is made for
such license, his name and address, his telephone number, the name, color and
sex of each potbellied pig owned or kept by him.
   B.   If the license is not obtained by the owner prior to the last day of
the month in the year it expires, or within thirty days of the date of first
possession of any potbellied pig, or of its becoming four months old, or within
thirty days from the arrival of the potbellied pig in the city, the license
payment shall be deemed delinquent and a penalty as provided in the fee
schedule set forth in Section
6.12.080 of this title shall be paid.
   C.   Each potbellied pig licensed under the terms of this chapter shall
receive, at the time of licensing, a tag on which shall be inscribed the name
of the city, the number of license and the date on which it expires. The tag
shall be attached to a collar, harness or other device, which shall be worn by
the potbellied pig at all times except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 1397.06.2 § 3 (part), 1992)
6.05.030 Running at large.
   A.   No person owning, keeping, possessing, harboring or maintaining any
potbellied pig shall allow such potbellied pig to be at large.
   B.   The enforcement agent shall apprehend and impound any potbellied pig
running at large.
(Ord. 1397.06.2 § 3 (part), 1992)
6.05.040 Impoundment.
   All impounding regulations as contained in
Chapter 6.12 of this title shall be applicable.
(Ord. 1397.06.2 § 3 (part), 1992)
6.05.050 Keeping of potbellied pigs.
   The provisions of
Chapter 6.08 of this title shall be applicable to the keeping of potbellied
pigs.
(Ord. 1397.6.2 § 3 (part), 1992)
6.05.060 Number permitted.
   No more than three potbellied pigs as defined in this chapter shall be
allowed per household. Potbellied pigs kept in this manner shall be considered
as pets provided, however, they are not kept for purposes of retail sales or
commercial breeding.
(Ord. 1397.06.2 § 3 (part), 1992)
6.05.070 Commercial breeding prohibited.
   No potbellied pig shall be kept for purposes of commercial breeding or
retail sales. Any potbellied pig as permitted under this chapter shall be kept
only as a pet or as a show animal within the limitations of Section
6.05.060.
(Ord. 1397.6.2 § 3 (part), 1992)
Chapter 6.06
BACKYARD FOWL
Sections:
6.06.010   Regulations.
6.06.020   Enforcement.
6.06.030   Violation; Penalty.
6.06.040   Habitual offender.
Editor’s note:
   The provisions of this chapter are effective on and after March 1, 2025.
6.06.010 Regulations.
   A.   For the purposes of this section, “fowl” means a cock or hen of the
domestic chicken.
   B.   A resident of a single-family detached residence may keep up to a
maximum of six fowl in the backyard of the property, provided that the
following conditions are met:
   1.   No male fowl, including roosters, shall be kept.
   2.   All fowl shall be kept in an enclosure located in the rear or side yard
of the property that is setback at least twenty feet from neighboring
properties. The size of the enclosure shall be a maximum of two hundred square
feet and shall have a height that does not exceed eight feet, except for
enclosures that are in a residential community on a lot less than one acre
where the height of the enclosure shall not exceed the height of the fence line
of the property.
   3.   The enclosure shall be maintained and manure picked up and disposed of
or composted at least twice weekly.
   4.   Any composted manure shall be kept in a way that prevents migration of
insects.
   5.   All water sources for fowls shall have adequate overflow drainage.
   6.   All feed for fowls shall be stored in insect-proof and rodent-proof
containers.
   7.   All fowl are prohibited from running at large.
   C.   Nothing herein shall limit the permitted uses set forth in
Table 17.16.030A.
(Ord. 1397.06.04 § 1, 2025)
6.06.020 Enforcement.
   Any animal control officer, code enforcement officer, or police officer
employed by the city may enforce any section of this chapter by seeking
voluntary compliance, issuing notices of violation, and issuing civil
complaints.
(Ord. 1397.06.04 § 1, 2025)
6.06.030 Violation; Penalty.
   A.   Any person who is found by the court to be in violation of any
provision of this chapter shall be deemed responsible for a civil violation,
unless otherwise designated in this chapter.
   B.   Upon the court finding a person responsible for a civil violation of
this chapter, the court shall impose a fine in an amount not less than $100.00
nor more than $500.00 for each violation.
(Ord. 1397.06.04 § 1, 2025)
6.06.040 Habitual offender.
   A.   A person who commits a violation of this chapter after previously
having been found responsible for committing three or more civil violations of
this chapter within a twenty-four month period, whether by admission, by
payment of the fine, by default, or by judgment after hearing, shall be guilty
of a class one misdemeanor.
   B.   The Casa Grande City Attorney's Office shall file a criminal
misdemeanor complaint in the Casa Grande City Court against habitual offenders
who violate this chapter.
   C.   For purposes of calculating the twenty-four month period under this
section, the dates of the commission of the offenses are the determining
factor.
   D.   Upon conviction of a person under this section, the court may impose a
sentence of incarceration not to exceed six months in jail or a fine not to
exceed two thousand five hundred dollars, exclusive of penalty assessments
prescribed by law, or both. The court shall order a person who has been
convicted under this section to pay a fine of not less than $500.00 for each
count upon which a conviction has been obtained.
   E.   Every action or proceeding under this section shall be commenced and
prosecuted in accordance with the laws of the State of Arizona relating to
criminal misdemeanors and the Arizona Rules of Criminal Procedure.
(Ord. 1397.06.04 § 1, 2025)
Chapter 6.08
ANIMAL CONTROL REGULATIONS GENERALLY
Sections:
6.08.010   Enforcement authority.
6.08.020   City court to have jurisdiction.
6.08.030   Confinement in motor vehicles.
6.08.040   Housing standards.
6.08.050   Prevention of strays.
6.08.060   Disturbing the peace prohibited.
6.08.070   Swine in city prohibited.
6.08.080   Diseased animals restricted.
6.08.090   Dangerous animals.
6.08.100   Dangerous animals—Destruction of authorized when.
6.08.110   Cruelty to animals prohibited.
6.08.010 Enforcement authority.
   All animal control officers shall be appointed with consent and advice of
the city manager. Animal control officers shall have all the powers and
authority required by law to enforce the provisions of this chapter and any
animal control provisions of the Arizona Revised Statutes.
(Prior code § 8-3-8)
6.08.020 City court to have jurisdiction.
   The city court shall have jurisdiction over all violations of this chapter.
A violation of this chapter shall be punishable as a Class 2 misdemeanor.
(Prior code § 8-3-7)
6.08.030 Confinement in motor vehicles.
   A.   For the purposes of this section only, the following words and phrases
shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this subsection:
   1.   “Animal” means all species of mammals, except humans, and all species
of birds;
   2.   “Animal control officer” means those persons designated by the city.
   B.   No person having charge or custody of an animal, as owner or otherwise,
shall place or confine the animal or allow the animal to be placed or confined
or to remain in a motor vehicle under such conditions or for such period of
time as may endanger the health or well-being of the animal due to heat, lack
of food or drink, or such other circumstances as may reasonably be expected to
cause suffering, disability or death.
   C.   No person having dominion or control over a motor vehicle, as owner or
otherwise, shall place or confine an animal or allow an animal to be placed or
confined or to remain in a motor vehicle under such conditions or for such
period of time as may endanger the health or well-being of the animal due to
heat, lack of food or drink, or such other circumstances as may reasonably be
expected to cause suffering, disability or death.
   D.   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit the transportation
of horses, cattle, sheep, poultry or other agricultural livestock in trailers
or other vehicles designed and constructed for such purpose.
   E.   A peace officer or an animal control officer who finds an animal in a
motor vehicle in violation of this section may break and enter the motor
vehicle if necessary to remove the animal. The officer or agent removing the
animal shall take the animal to an animal shelter or other place of safe
keeping and shall, in the event the person having custody cannot be otherwise
contacted, leave in a prominent place in the motor vehicle a written notice
bearing his name and office and the address where the animal may be claimed by
the owner thereof. The animal will be surrendered to the owner if the owner
claims the animal within five days from the time the animal was removed from
the motor vehicle and pays all reasonable charges that have accrued for the
maintenance of the animal. If the owner fails to claim the animal within three
days after its removal from the motor vehicle, the animal control officer will
make reasonable effort to contact the owner and give notice that the animal is
in their custody and must be reclaimed by the owner upon payment of the
reasonable maintenance charges within two days. In the event the owner cannot
be contacted, or expresses no interest in reclaiming the animal, the animal
control officer may dispose of the animal pursuant to Section
6.12.030 of this code.
   F.   A person who violates any provision of this section is guilty of a
Class 2 misdemeanor.
(Prior code § 8-3-9)
6.08.040 Housing standards.
   A.   It is unlawful to cause or allow any stable, kennel, pet shop, or place
where any animal is or may be kept to become unclean or unwholesome.
   B.   Every person maintaining a pet shop shall cause a notice, framed and
enclosed under glass, containing the names, addresses and telephone numbers of
persons to be notified during any hour of the day or night who will proceed
immediately to the location so as to permit contact by the animal control
officer.
(Prior code § 8-1-5)
6.08.050 Prevention of strays.
   Any person who keeps or causes to be kept any horses, mules, cattle, burros,
goats, sheep or other livestock or poultry within the corporate limits of the
city shall keep livestock or poultry in a pen or similar enclosure to prevent
them from roaming at large.
(Prior code § 8-1-4)
6.08.060 Disturbing the peace prohibited.
   It is unlawful to harbor or keep any animals which disturb the peace by loud
noises at any time of the day or night.
(Prior code § 8-1-3)
6.08.070 Swine in city prohibited.
   It is unlawful to keep any live swine or pigs in the city except registered
purebred miniature Vietnamese potbellied pigs or other similar registered
purebred miniature potbellied pigs. Such miniature pigs shall not exceed one
hundred pounds in weight. Any such miniature pigs shall be subject to all other
conditions and requirements as set forth in
Chapter 6.05 of this title.
(Ord. 1397.06.2 § 2, 1992)
6.08.080 Diseased animals restricted.
   It is unlawful to allow any domestic animal afflicted with a contagious or
infectious disease to run at large, or to be exposed in any public place
whereby the health of man or beast may be affected. It is unlawful for such
diseased animal to be shipped or removed from the premises of the owner
thereof, except under the supervision of the animal control officer or his
designate.
(Prior code § 8-1-7)
6.08.090 Dangerous animals.
   A.   “Vicious animal” means any animal of the order carnivora that has a
propensity to bite human beings or other animals without provocation, kills
another animal without provacation and/or has been so declared after hearing
before a justice of the peace or a city magistrate.
   B.   It is unlawful to permit any dangerous or vicious animal to run at
large within the city, and the animal shall be immediately impounded by the
animal control officer, the officer to be designated by the city.
   C.   Vicious animals shall be destroyed in a manner provided by law.
   D.   Exhibitions or parades of animals which are ferae naturae in the eyes
of the law may be conducted only upon securing a permit from the animal control
officer.
(Ord. 1397.06.3 § 2 (part), 1994; prior code § 8-1-1)
6.08.100 Dangerous animals—Destruction of authorized when.
   The animal control officer is authorized to kill any dangerous animal of any
kind when it is necessary for the protection of any person or property.
(Prior code § 8-1-2)
6.08.110 Cruelty to animals prohibited.
   A.   Any person who maliciously kills, maims, or wounds an animal which is
the property of another, or who, having charge or custody of an animal as owner
or otherwise, overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, overworks,
tortures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, drink or shelter, cruelly
beats, mutilates or cruelly kills an animal, or subjects an animal to needless
suffering, or inflicts unnecessary cruelty upon the animal, or in any manner
abuses an animal, or who cruelly drives, rides or otherwise uses the animal
when unfit for labor is guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor.
   B.   Any person who abandons an animal, or drops or leaves an animal on the
street, road or highway, in a public place or on private property with intent
to abandon is guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor. An animal also is abandoned when
the owner, possessor or custodian fails to claim it from a boarding facility or
veterinarian within ten days of the date a registered letter is received by
such person from the boarding facility or veterinarian requesting that the
owner, possessor or custodian reclaim the animal.
   C.   Any person who conducts a shooting event at which any person uses a
firearm to shoot, kill or wound a live bird or animal that is tied, staked out,
caged, held or restrained in any manner and used as a target to be fired at in
such an event is guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor.
   D.   The animal control officer may destroy a dog or cat impounded for
cruelty to prevent the animal from further suffering.
(Prior code § 8-3-10)
Chapter 6.12
IMPOUNDMENT
Sections:
6.12.010   Animal control officer authority.
6.12.020   Authority to impound.
6.12.030   Notice to owner.
6.12.040   Descriptive report required.
6.12.050   Conditions and duration.
6.12.060   Redemption procedure.
6.12.070   Adoption or destruction of unredeemed animals.
6.12.080   Fee schedule.
6.12.090   Payment of fees.
6.12.100   Impeding animal control officer prohibited.
6.12.110   Biting animals—Procedure.
6.12.010 Animal control officer authority.
   The animal control officer shall be designated by city and shall be charged
with the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, except as may be
otherwise provided by the city.
(Prior code § 8-2-1)
6.12.020 Authority to impound.
   The animal control officer may impound any animal found at large in
violation of this chapter, or off of the owner's property, not under control or
on a leash of some person in the streets, alleys or other public places or
vacant or enclosed lots in the city.
(Prior code § 8-2-2)
6.12.030 Notice to owner.
   If the owner of any impounded animal is known to the animal control officer
and resides or has a known place of business in the city, the animal control
officer shall notify the owner of the animal by telephone or by letter through
the post office within twenty-four hours after the animal has been impounded.
The notice shall contain a description of the animal and shall state that
unless reclaimed, the animal shall be placed for adoption or destroyed in
manner provided by law.
(Prior code § 8-2-3)
6.12.040 Descriptive report required.
   The animal control officer shall, within twenty-four hours after impounding
any animal, make a report stating the kind of animal and describing it by color
or otherwise or by any marks or brands that may be on it, and when it was
impounded. Each report shall be maintained on file for not less than six
months.
(Prior code § 8-2-4)
6.12.050 Conditions and duration.
   The animal control officer shall provide for the keeping of all animals
impounded in a safe, convenient and comfortable place within or conveniently
near the city limits and shall feed the animals at least once every twenty-four
hours and treat them in a humane manner during the time they are impounded,
which shall not be less than three days, unless sooner claimed by the owner.
(Prior code § 8-2-5)
6.12.060 Redemption procedure.
   If the owner of any animal shall within three days after the animal has been
impounded, apply to the animal control officer and pay the fees and charges
provided by this chapter, the agent shall release the animal to the owner.
(Prior code § 8-2-6)
6.12.070 Adoption or destruction of unredeemed animals.
   All animals impounded under the provisions of this chapter which have not
been claimed and the fees and charges have not been paid to the city by the
owner within three days, shall be placed for adoption or destruction in a
manner prescribed by law.
(Prior code § 8-2-7)
6.12.080 Fee schedule.
   The fees for dogs, cats, and potbellied pigs are hereby established in the
City Consolidated Fee Schedule pursuant to Section
1.04.170.
(Ord. 1397.02.10 § 4, 2008; Ord. 1397.06.3 § 2 (part), 1994; Ord. 1397.06.2 §
4, 1992)
6.12.090 Payment of fees.
   A.   The animal control officer of the city will accept all fees and costs
involved in the impoundment of all animals for any reason.
    B.   Any person may:
      1.   Bring an unwanted animal to the pound and transfer ownership to the
animal control officer;
      2.   Have the animal control officer pick-up, destroy, and bury an owned
animal;
      3.   Rent animal traps; and
      4.   Upon proof of compliance of vaccination and licensing provisions of
this code, and compliance with applicable state laws, may adopt an unwanted or
impounded animal upon the expiration of the impoundment period.
   C.   All fees associated with such animal control services are hereby
established in the City Consolidated Fee Schedule pursuant to Section
1.04.170.
(Ord. 1397.02.10 § 5, 2008; Ord. 1397.06.3 § 2 (part), 1994; Ord. 1397.01.1 §
3, 1992)
6.12.100 Impeding animal control officer prohibited.
   It is unlawful for any person to in any manner intervene, impede, prevent,
obstruct or intimidate the animal control officer when he is discharging his
duties pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior code § 8-2-9)
6.12.110 Biting animals—Procedure.
   Whenever any animal, except a dog or cat, bites a person, the person so
bitten and the owner of the animal shall immediately notify the animal control
officer who shall cause an examination of the animal to be made by a duly
licensed physician or a duly licensed veterinarian, and shall order the animal
held on the owner's premises or have it impounded as long as necessary for a
complete examination. If it is determined that the animal is infected with
rabies or other dangerous, contagious or infectious disease, it shall be the
duty of the animal control officer to destroy the animal in a manner provided
by law. If, at the end of the quarantine or impoundment, a veterinarian
documents that the animal is free from such diseases, the animal shall be
released to the owner at the place of impoundment. If the animal dies during
the period of quarantine or impoundment, its head shall be sent to the State
Department of Health for examination. The owner shall bear any costs involved
in the quarantine or impoundment of the animal including boarding costs.
(Prior code § 8-2-10)
Title 7
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Chapters:
7.01   Economic Development Incentives
7.02   Arizona Public Service Franchise Fee
Chapter 7.01
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INCENTIVES
Sections:
 7.01.001   Definitions.
 
7.01.002   Authorization to rebate fees, City sales tax revenues and expend
public funds in furtherance of economic development in the City.
 
7.01.003   Council approval or City Manager approval.
 
7.01.004   Criteria.
 
7.01.005   Agreement required.
 
7.01.006   Developer obligations.
 
7.01.007   Reports to the Council.
7.01.001 Definitions.
   Unless otherwise indicated in this Title 7, Chapter 1, terms in this chapter
shall have the following meanings:
   A.   Commercial projects which are eligible for the incentives or
enhancement established in Section
7.01.002 do not include retail projects.
   B.   "Retail" shall mean a commercial enterprise which sells tangible goods
to a buyer who is the end user or consumer.
   C.   "New industrial or commercial project" shall mean an enterprise which
is different in function from the land use or enterprise in the location being
considered for incentives or enhancements.
   D.   Expansion of an "existing industrial or commercial project" shall mean
an increase in the land, buildings, equipment or machinery of an enterprise
which is the same in function as the existing land use or enterprise in the
location being considered for incentives or enhancements.
   E.   "Compliance period" shall mean the time period specified in the
agreement between the recipient and the City during which the recipient shall
comply with the Section
7.01.004 criteria on which it supported its eligibility for the incentives or
enhancements in Section
7.01.002. The compliance period may be longer than the time period for payment
of the incentives or enhancements to the recipient.
(Ord. 1397.07.01 § 1 (part), 2000)
7.01.002 Authorization to rebate fees, city sales tax revenues and expend
public funds in furtherance of economic development in the City.
   The City may encourage economic development and authorize the rebate of
certain fees, except development fees enacted pursuant to the authority of
Arizona Revised Statutes (A.R.S.) § 9-463.05, taxes or provide construction of
off-site public improvements including, but not limited to, the following:
   A.   Any or all fees required to be paid in connection with the construction
or expansion of a commercial or industrial project, including, but not limited
to, plan checking fees, inspection fees, and sewer connection fees;
   B.   General funds to pay the costs of construction of off-site public
improvements which the City determines are required to be constructed in
connection with a commercial or industrial project.
   C.   All or a portion of the sales tax revenues levied, generated and
received by the City as a result of the construction of a new, or expansion of
an existing, commercial or industrial project unless such sales tax revenues
are subject to a prior senior pledge.
   D.   All or a portion of the property tax revenues levied, generated and
received by the City as a result of the construction of a new, or expansion of
an existing, commercial or industrial project unless such tax revenues are
subject to a prior senior pledge.
(Ord. 1397.07.01 § 1 (part), 2000)
7.01.003 Council approval or City Manager approval.
   If the aggregate of the fees, costs of the City-constructed improvements and
sales or property tax rebate is more than $75,000, the City Council must
approve any incentive in this Section
7.01.002. If the aggregate of the fees, costs of City-constructed improvements
and sales or sales tax rebate is less than $75,000, the City Manager may
approve any incentive in this Section 7.01.1.
(Ord. 1397.07.01 § 1 (part), 2000)
7.01.004 Criteria.
   A.   The City shall not grant the incentives authorized in Section
7.01.002 without finding the potential recipient meets the following:
   1.   The rebating of the fees, expenditure of the funds or rebate of City
sales tax revenues will assist in the creation or retention of a significant
number of jobs in the City with the average hourly wage for non-exempt
positions (pursuant to the FSLA) of at least 75% higher than the federal
minimum hourly wage and wherein the recipient pays at least 25% of it average
hourly wage for non-exempt positions in benefits; and
   2.   New eligible industrial and commercial projects must expend a minimum
of One Million, Five Hundred Thousand dollars ($1,500,000.00) in equipment,
machinery, land, and building improvements as its initial investment at a
single location; or expansions of existing eligible industrial and commercial
projects must expend a minimum of Seven Hundred, Fifty Thousand dollars
($750,000.00) in equipment, machinery, land, and building improvements as its
expansion investment at a single location.
   B.   The City may also consider the following factors in determining whether
the potential recipient should be granted incentives:
   1.   Economic development will be furthered by rebating the fees,
expenditure of funds or rebate of City sales tax revenues.
   2.   The recipient's operation will otherwise improve or enhance the
economic welfare of the inhabitants of the City.
   3.   The recipient's operation will not disproportionately expend natural
resources or public infrastructure and services, such as transportation
infrastructure or public safety services.
   4.   The benefits the City will receive from the commercial or industrial
project outweigh the economic costs to the City, as demonstrated through the
City's fiscal impact analysis model.
   5.   The potential recipients' use of and availability of other funds and
rebates from the City or other sources including other governmental entities.
(Ord. 1397.07.01 § 1 (part), 2000)
7.01.005 Agreement required.
   In order to utilize the incentives provided in Section
7.01.002, the recipient and the City must enter into an enforceable agreement,
including a development agreement pursuant to A.R.S. § 9-500.05, as to the
terms and conditions of the development and such other provisions as may be
requested by the City. The agreement must be consistent with the requirements
of this chapter and shall further identify the rights and obligations of the
parties. The City may request that the agreement be secured or collateralized
such that the recipient's obligations are reasonably assured.
(Ord. 1397.07.01 § 1 (part), 2000)
7.01.006 Developer obligations.
   The recipient, in order to receive, or continue receiving, incentives or
enhancements, shall:
   A.   Provide information, including capital investment and employment
projections, to enable the City to prepare a fiscal impact analysis;
   B.   Begin construction of the improvements within twelve months of the date
of the offer by the City or twelve months from the effective date of the
development agreement, if there is one;
   C.   Complete construction, remodeling or improvement within twenty-four
months, or the time period specified in the development agreement, of the date
of the offer or effective date of any development agreement with the City;
   D.   Upon purchase of the parcel or parcels for the economic development
project, the owner/developer agrees to commence construction of the
improvements no later than ninety (90) days after issuance by City of a
building permit.
   E.   Owner/developer agrees to comply with such zoning, building and
planning requirements as are applicable to construction of said improvements,
including cooperating with the City in connection with site plan approvals and
the obtaining of such other permits as are required in connection with the
development of the land and construction and occupancy of the improvements. In
addition, owner/developer agrees to provide City with information necessary for
the City to complete its fiscal impact analysis model. Such information shall
not include proprietary or certain financial information that, in the
reasonable opinion of the owner/developer, could be used to owner/developer's
competitive disadvantage by market competitors.
   F.   Owner/developer agrees to be wholly responsible for paying city impact
fees, development fees, plan check fees, permit fees, expedited review fees and
fees required by the City for studies, reports and other project-related
analyses.
   G.   Owner/developer shall make every reasonable effort to have improvements
satisfactorily completed, to obtain a Certificate of Occupancy, and to have the
economic development project open for business on or before a certain date
which shall be identified in the development agreement.
   H.   On each anniversary date of the issuance of the certificate of
occupancy through the compliance period, the recipient shall provide to the
City Manager an informational update, including capital investment and
employment projections, which demonstrates the recipient's compliance with its
obligations under its agreement with the City.
(Ord. 1397.07.01 § 1 (part), 2000)
7.01.007 Reports to the Council.
   A.   The City Manager shall report to the Council any rebate of fees, tax
revenues or expenditure of public funds in which the aggregate of the
expenditure or rebate is less than $75,000.00. The report will be provided to
Council within 30 days of the recipient's acceptance and shall include, but is
not limited to:
   1.   Company name and description.
   2.   Amount of capital investment by the company for construction,
remodeling or improvements.
   3.   Number of additional jobs added or created by the company.
   4.   Purpose of the City offering enhancements.
   5.   Preliminary fiscal impact analysis prior to business operation.
   B.   The City Manager shall within 30 days of his receipt submit to the City
Council the reports received from recipients in compliance with 7.01.006H.
(Ord. 1397.07.01 § 1 (part), 2000)
Chapter 7.02
ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE FRANCHISE FEE
Sections:
7.02.01      [Distribution.]
7.02.02      Distribution and accrual.
7.02.01 [Distribution.]
   The franchise fee Arizona Public Service pays to the City pursuant to the
franchise agreement adopted by Casa Grande Ordinance 3104 shall be distributed
as set forth below under the direction of the Casa Grande City Council for
aesthetic revitalization projects, economic development projects, and a portion
of the fee will be deposited in the General Fund and not dedicated to specific
projects.
(Ord. 1397.7.2 § 1 (part), 2002)
7.02.02 Distribution and accrual.
   A.   There shall be a separate accounting for the franchise fee paid by
Arizona Public Service Company to the City of Casa Grande pursuant to the
franchise agreement adopted in Casa Grande Ordinance 3104.
   B.   The franchise fee shall be accrued by the Casa Grande City Council as
follows:
   1.   For each dollar of the franchise fee paid to the City, 34 % will be
deposited into an Aesthetic Revitalization Fund. Projects funded by the
Aesthetic Revitalization Fund will include: underground dark conduit or live
wires, landscaping of rights-of-way, widening of rights-of-way, fixing drainage
on rights-of-way, assuring better traffic accessibility on rights-of-way,
multi-modal transportation, Americans with Disability Act (ADA) compliance on
rights-of-way, sewer line work, pavement restoration, greenbelt and open space
planning, redevelopment projects, or other projects as determined by the City
Council.
   2.   For each dollar of the franchise fee paid to the City, 33% will be
deposited into the General Fund and is not dedicated to a specific purpose.
   3.   For each dollar of the franchise fee paid to the City, 33% will be
deposited into an Economic Development Fund until the Economic Development Fund
balance reaches $250,000.00. The $250,000.00 limit is meant to be an accrual
limit and in no way shall limit the Council allocation of City funds for
economic development projects from this or other sources. The provisions of
Chapter 7.01 of the Casa Grande Municipal Code shall govern the distribution of
the Economic Development Fund.
   4.   When the Economic Development Fund balance accrues to $250,000.00, each
additional dollar of franchise fee payment will be split equally and deposited
into the Aesthetic Revitalization Fund and the General Fund.
   5.   If the Economic Development Fund balance falls below $250,000.00, the
method of distribution will be returned to the original distribution among the
three funds until the $250,000 accrual limit on the Economic Development Fund
is met.
(Ord. 1397.7.2 § 1 (part), 2002)
Title 8
HEALTH AND SAFETY
Chapters:
8.04   Health Code Adopted
8.08   Garbage and Refuse Collection and Disposal
8.12   Nuisances, Litter, Abandoned or Junk Vehicles
8.16   Fire Code Adopted
8.20   Fire Lanes
8.24   Alarm Systems
8.28   Sale of Ephedrine and Pseudoephedrine Products
8.30   Responsible Adult Use of Marijuana Prohibitions
8.32   Graffiti
Chapter 8.04
HEALTH CODE ADOPTED
Sections:
8.04.010   Adoption.
8.04.010 Adoption.
   That certain code entitled “Pinal County Sanitary Code” published by the
Pinal County Health Department is hereby adopted as the “Sanitary Code of the
City of Casa Grande” and made a part of this chapter the same as though the
code was specifically set forth in full herein; and at least three copies of
the code shall be filed in the office of the clerk and kept available for
public use and inspection.
(Prior code § 11-2-1)
Chapter 8.08
GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
Sections:
8.08.010   Definitions.
8.08.020   Enforcement authority.
8.08.030   Refuse collection.
8.08.040   Reserved
8.08.050   Reserved
8.08.060   Reserved
8.08.070   Use of collection system.
8.08.080   Refuse containers—Provision and maintenance—Placement—Contents.
8.08.090   Collection frequency.
8.08.100   Collection fee schedule.
8.08.110   Residential rubbish and specially treated solid waste requiring
special handling.
8.08.120   Business route collection.
8.08.130   Disposal site.
8.08.140   Disposal site rules and regulations.
8.08.150   Inspection authority.
8.08.160   Billing cycles created—Collection authority.
8.08.170   Authority to waive penalty.
8.08.180   Refuse accumulation unlawful.
8.08.190   Burning and dumping unlawful.
8.08.200   Violations; enforcement.
8.08.210   Criminal penalty.
8.08.220   Alternative enforcement measures.
8.08.010 Definitions.
   A.   "Collector" wherever herein used means the City or its authorized
representative.
   B.   "Garbage" means and includes all putrescible waste, except sewage and
body waste, including waste accumulated of animal, food or vegetable matter,
and including waste that attends the preparation, use, cooking, dealing in or
storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit and vegetable, and shall include all of such
wastes or accumulations or vegetable matter of residences, restaurants, hotels
and places where food is prepared for human consumption. The term "garbage"
shall not include recognized industrial byproducts.
   C.   "Encapsulate" means either of the following two methods:
   1.   Placement of medical sharps in a rigid, puncture-proof, leakproof
container with a locking cap, after rendering them incapable of creating a
stick hazard by using an encapsulation agent or any other process that renders
them incapable of creating a stick hazard; or
   2.   Grinding such that the medical sharps are incapable of creating a stick
hazard and are unrecognizable.
   D.   "Green waste" means brush, leaves, weeds, and cuttings from trees,
lawns, shrubs, and gardens.
   E.   "Inspector" means the public works director or his/her designated
employee or employees of the City having the duty of the enforcement of this
chapter.
   F.   "Landfill" means the Casa Grande Municipal Landfill at its present and
any future locations.
   G.   "Landfill disposal" shall mean the delivery of green waste, refuse,
rubbish, and waste to the Landfill by the Landfill user(s) or his/their agent
(s).
   H.   "Landfill user" or "user," which terms shall be used interchangeably,
shall mean each owner or occupant subject to this chapter, or a person who
disposes refuse or causes to be disposed refuse in the Landfill.
   I.   "Medical sharps" shall mean discarded sharps used in animal or human
patient care, medical research, or clinical laboratories. This includes
hypodermic needles; syringes; pipettes; scalpel blades; blood vials; needles
attached to tubing; broken and unbroken glassware; and slides and coverslips.
   J.   "Owner" and "occupant," which terms herein are used interchangeably,
shall mean every person in possession, in charge or in control of any dwelling,
flat, roominghouse, or any eating place, shop, place of business, manufacturing
or business establishment where garbage or other refuse is created or
accumulated.
   K.   “Person” means a corporation, company, partnership, firm, association,
society, or other legal entity, as well as a natural person.
   L.   “Refuse” means solid wastes, including garbage and rubbish.
   M.   “Residence” means any structure or premises used as a domicile,
dwelling, or habitation, including single-family dwellings, multifamily
dwelling units, duplexes, patio homes, mobile home parks, trailer courts,
rooming houses, boardinghouses, assisted living facilities, apartments,
condominiums, townhouses, or any complex of the foregoing.
    N.   “Residential refuse” means any refuse generated by a residence.
   O.   “Roll on/roll-off” means that method of container hauling where large
capacity refuse containers are loaded into the transporting vehicle by tipping
the rear rails, hauling the container onto rails by a cable pulley system and
tipping the rear rails back to the horizontal position.
   P.   “Rubbish” means refuse other than garbage, tin cans, bottles, ashes,
paper, pasteboard, cardboard, or wooden boxes, brush, leaves, weeds, and
cuttings from trees, lawns, shrubs, and gardens or other waste materials
produced in the normal course of everyday living.
   Q.   "Specially treated solid waste" means and includes solid waste defined
as medical waste, biohazardous medical waste, and special waste in Arizona
Revised Statutes ("A.R.S.") Title 49, Chapter 4, and the Arizona Administrative
Code, Title 18, Chapter 13.
   R.   “Waste” means unwanted solid, liquid or gaseous materials. (Ord.
1397.08.23 § 1, 2010; Ord. 1397.08.16 1 (part), 2004; Ord. 1397.08.13 § 1
(part), 2002; Ord. 645.17 § 2 (part), 1989; prior code § 11-1-1)
8.08.020 Enforcement authority.
   The public works director, or his designee, shall be responsible for the
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter and other duties as the public
works director may prescribe.
(Ord. 1397.08.16 § 1 (part), 2004; prior code § 11-1-2)
8.08.030 Refuse collection.
   There is established a system of residential refuse collection,
transportation and disposal. It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of collecting, transporting, hauling or conveying any residential
refuse, or to dump or dispose of the same, except by the City or its authorized
representatives.
(Ord. 1397.08.30 § 1, 2022; Ord. 1397.08.23 § 2, 2010; Ord. 1397.08.16 1
(part), 2004; Ord. 1397.08.2 § 2 (part), 1992)
8.08.040 Reserved
8.08.050 Reserved
8.08.060 Reserved
8.08.070 Use of collection system.
   A.   Every owner and occupant of premises within the prescribed limits of
this chapter shall use the refuse collection and disposal system herein
provided, and shall deposit or cause to be deposited in accordance with this
chapter all rubbish and garbage which is accumulated on the premises that is of
the nature that it is perishable, or may decompose, or may be scattered by wind
or otherwise, unless authorized by the City to do his own collecting and
permitted to dispose at the Landfill.
   B.   Upon the request of the inspector, in addition to compliance with this
chapter, every user shall demonstrate compliance with the appropriate state
laws or Arizona Administrative regulations in the user's storage, handling,
treatment, or disposal of the refuse for which it wishes to deposit or cause to
be deposited in accordance with this chapter. Compliance with state laws or
Arizona Administrative regulations shall include possession of the appropriate
permits and approval of appropriate plans required by the various federal or
state regulatory agencies.
(Ord. 1397.08.16 § 1 (part), 2004; Ord. 1397.08.13 § 1 (part), 2002; prior code
§ 11-1-4)
8.08.080 Refuse containers—Provision and maintenance—Placement—Contents.
   A.   On new residential construction, each lot or combination of lots shall
be supplied with a refuse container, at the expense of the developer or
subdivision, to be owned and maintained by the City, as approved by the public
works director.
   B.   For residences already constructed and occupied, the City shall provide
and maintain the container.
   C.   On new and existing commercial and industrial facilities, the owner
shall be responsible for the initial purchase and following maintenance of the
containers, as approved by the public works director. The public works director
may have the container maintained and pass any cost on to the owner of the
property, if such users do not maintain the container(s) in accordance with the
public works director's approved guidelines.
   D.   All garbage shall, before deposit in any refuse container, be wrapped
in paper or other material so as to prevent the escape of liquids therefrom.
   E.   All refuse containers shall be kept in a place accessible to the
collector, as determined by the public services director;
   F.   No tires shall be mixed in with other refuse.
   G.   The public works director shall designate the type of service and
container size to be utilized by each user.
   H.   Specially treated solid waste shall be containerized or properly
packaged as mandated by the most stringent of the following regulations or
laws:
   1.   Arizona Revised Statutes, Title 49, Chapter 4;
   2.   Arizona Administrative Code, Title 18, Chapter13; or
   3.   This chapter of the Casa Grande Municipal Code.
   J.   The user shall encapsulate medical sharps prior to their disposal at
the Landfill or in a container designated for deposit in the Landfill.
(Ord. 1397.08.16 § 1 (part), 2004; Ord. 1397.08.13 § 1 (part), 2002; prior code
§ 11-1-7)
8.08.090 Collection frequency.
   The frequency of collection or the users' delivery of garbage, refuse, green
waste, or rubbish shall be no less than that shown in the following schedule:
   A.   Garbage only—twice weekly;
   B.   Refuse with garbage—twice weekly;
   C.   Rubbish—as often as necessary to prevent nuisances but no less than
once weekly, subject to the inspection by the public works director or his
authorized representative.
(Ord. 1397.08.16 § 1 (part), 2004; prior code § 11-1-8)
8.08.100 Collection fee schedule.
   A.   Monthly collection fee rates for residences within the City limits are
as established in the City Consolidated Fee Schedule and include two
collections each week of ninety gallon or three hundred gallon plastic
containers.
   B.   Single pickup collection fee rates for non-residential users within the
City limits are as established in the City Consolidated Fee Schedule for ninety
gallon or three hundred gallon plastic containers, metal containers filled with
loose refuse, roll-on/roll-off containers loose or compacted. The non-
residential rates established in the City Consolidated Fee Schedule do not
require or authorize the City's collection of uncontainerized rubbish, nor do
they establish the full rate for disposal of specially treated solid waste.
Non-residential brush truck service shall be charged in accordance with the
loose refuse volumes established in the City Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   C.   Landfill Disposal Fee by Permit:
   1.   Except for disposal of appliances as set forth in Subsection
8.08.100.C.2.b., Landfill disposal is free to residential users who show proof
of residence within the City.
   2.   Non-residential facilities, except those disposing of specially treated
solid waste, within the City limits shall pay Landfill user fees established in
the City Consolidated Fee Schedule, except as follows:
   a.   Green waste delivered to the Landfill that has been chipped to a two
inch or less size has no charge. If mixed with other refuse or waste, it will
be charged at regular Landfill usage rates as established in the City
Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   b.   For City residents or City non-residential entities, appliances with
demonstrated proof that Freon has been removed will be accepted for Landfill
disposal at no charge. For City residents or City non-residential entities,
appliances that contain Freon, or lack proof that the Freon was removed, will
be assessed a Freon removal fee as established in the City Consolidated Fee
Schedule.
   3.   Residential users or non-residential facilities outside the City limits
shall pay for Landfill usage pursuant to the City Consolidated Fee Schedule.
Roll-off service outside the City limits will be charged a fifty percent
surcharge over and above that charged inside the City limits, plus the
appropriate Landfill fees, as established in the City Consolidated Fee
Schedule.
   4.   The Landfill will not accept tires or specially treated solid waste
from residential users or non-residential facilities outside the City.
   5.   There will be a minimum one ton charge for all containers charged by
weight.
(Ord. 1397.08.16 § 1 (part), 2004; Ord. 1397.08.14 § 1, 2003; Ord. 1397.08.13 §
1 (part), 2002; Ord. 1397.08.12 § 1 (part), 2001; Ord. 1397.08.11 § 1 (part),
2001; Ord. 1397.08.09 § 1, 1999; Ord. 1397.08.08 § 1, 1998; Ord. 1397.08.06,
1998; Ord. 1397.08.3 § 4, 1992)
   D.   Fees shall be billed and paid monthly.
   E.   Specially treated solid waste from residential or non-residential users
within the City limits shall pay the base charge according to §
8.08.100.B., plus the relevant rate established below for the type of specially
treated solid waste being deposited at the Landfill:
   1.   Actual costs of any remediation, if impossible to separate specially
treated solid waste that was improperly deposited at the Landfill because of
user's non-compliance with this chapter.
   2.   Actual costs for any staff time for collection, Landfill observation,
and special covering; and actual costs for the equipment time for special
covering activities at Landfill.
   F.   The finance director shall bill all known users monthly by
approximately the first day of the following month for which the sanitation or
landfill service is provided. Sanitation service fees and Landfill fees shall
be due and payable at the office of the financial director when the monthly
statement is rendered, and shall be delinquent twenty calendar days thereafter.
If the total bill for any such charge is not paid within five calendar days
after the date of delinquency, a late fee of one and one-half percent of the
unpaid balance (including any unpaid late fees or similar charges) shall be
charged each month of delinquency to be collected, in addition to the amount
then due. Failure to receive an invoice shall not be a defense to payment for
any user; provided, however, that the finance director may waive late fees or
otherwise compromise amounts due and owing if the failure to receive an invoice
was due to an error on the part of the city. Failure on the part of a person or
entity to notify the city that sanitation service or landfill service was being
supplied, or failure to notify the city that appropriate monthly billings are
not being received, constitute error on the part of the consumer, and not the
city, for purposes of this subsection. The finance director is authorized and
directed to use any legal means or procedures to ensure collection of
sanitation service and Landfill fees, and to compromise, settle or dispose of
such fees in the normal course of collection.
   G.   The finance director may, as an accommodation to a property owner, bill
a tenant or other party for sanitation charges, in which case the property
owner, as well as the user, are jointly and severally liable for such charges.
All unpaid sewer charges for a property, however, remain the responsibility of
the property owner. If a tenant does not pay a charge when rendered, the
finance director may notify the property owner of the tenant's nonpayment, and
the property owner shall pay the amount due within seven calendar days of the
notice to the property owner. If such payment is promptly made the finance
director may waive applicable late fees.
   H.   All sanitation charges are the responsibility of the property owners.
If a tenant does not pay a charge when due, the City will notify the property
owner, at its last known address, of the tenant's nonpayment, and the property
owner will be required to pay the amount due within five business days of the
mailing of the City notice.
   I.   City-owned six and eight cubic yard front load metal containers and
roll-on/roll-off metal containers will only be rented to contractors or non-
residential users on a short-term or project basis. Non-residential customers
who have a continuing need for a container will be required to purchase or
lease a suitable container from a private enterprise.
   J.   The public works director, or his designee, will assess a fee for
replacement of lost containers, or for containers negligently or intentionally
damaged by users. The fee will be based on the actual cost of the replacement
container, plus a delivery fee, as established in the City Consolidated Fee
Schedule. This fee does not apply to containers damaged due to reasonable wear
and tear.
   K.   Users must bring Landfill disposal to the Landfill covered by tarp or
fully contained within a vehicle/trailer. The public works director, or his
designee, will assess a failure-to-cover fee as established in the City
Consolidated Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 1397.08.22 § 1, 2009; Ord. 1397.08.16 § 1 (part), 2004; Ord. 1397.08.13 §
1 (part), 2002; Ord. 1397.08.12 § 1 (part), 2001; Ord. 1397.08.11 § 1 (part),
2001; Ord. 1397.08.09 § 1 (part), 1999; Ord. 1397.08.08 § 1, 1998; Ord.
1397.08.06, 1998; Ord. 1397.08.3 §§ 2, 3, 4, 1992; Ord. 1397.08.2 § 2 (part),
1992; Ord. 1397.08.1 § 2, 1991; Ord. 645.18 § 1, 1989; Ord. 1086.2 § 1 (part),
1988; prior code § 11-1-9)
8.08.110 Residential rubbish and specially treated solid waste requiring
special handling.
   A.   Rubbish consisting only of cardboard, wooden boxes, furniture,
appliances, and green waste from residences within the City limits may be kept
separately without depositing in the appropriate containers issued by the City.
Green waste, if not placed in containers, shall be in a sack or receptacle for
ease of loading. Compost piles may be maintained on the users' private property
for fertilization purposes, and matter used for fertilization purposes only may
be transported, kept, or used. Nothing in this section shall be construed so as
to permit the violation of any provision of this code, any ordinance, or any
rule or regulation of the fire department.
   B.   Specially Treated Solid Waste.
   1.   Upon collection from the user, the user shall, if requested by the
inspector, show compliance with §
8.08.070.B.;
   2.   Owners/occupants may only deposit, or cause to be deposited, specially
treated solid waste at the Landfill when sufficient Landfill staff is available
to timely collect the specially treated solid waste so that Landfill personnel
can appropriately locate a suitable location at the Landfill, witness the
dumping of the specially treated solid waste to ensure compliance with this
chapter, and appropriately cover the specially treated solid waste after it is
deposited.
(Ord. 1397.08.16 § 1 (part), 2004; Ord. 1397.08.13 § 1 (part), 2002; prior code
§ 11-1-10)
8.08.120 Business route collection.
   A.   The inspector shall designate premises, such as, but not limited to,
restaurants and grocery stores, hospitals and butcher shops, wherein large
accumulations of garbage occur, and shall notify the premises owner, at the
last known address (and the occupant, at the property address), of such
designation. From and after the notification by the inspector, all rubbish and
garbage accumulated upon the premises shall be deposited separately, in
approved containers for garbage as provided in Section
8.08.080 of this chapter.
   B.   The City may enter into a contract for the collection of the garbage
and other refuse. It is unlawful for any person, except the City's designated
collector, to collect, or to haul or transport garbage and other refuse from
any premises so designated under the provisions of this Section
8.08.120, except as permitted under Section
8.08.030.
   C.   Specially treated solid waste will only be picked up by appointment, at
least two business days in advance of the anticipated collection, with the
office of the public services director or his designee.
(Ord. 1397.08.16 § 1 (part), 2004; Ord. 1397.08.13 § 1 (part), 2002; Ord.
645.17 § 2 (part), 1989; prior code § 11-1-11)
8.08.130 Disposal site.
   There is established at places and locations as the council may from time to
time designate, by motion or order, a place for the dumping and depositing of
rubbish and garbage and any such place or location shall be known and the same
designated as the City disposal site. The inspector shall have the authority of
a police officer to enforce all provisions of this code, ordinances, rules and
regulations governing the City disposal site.
(Ord. 1397.08.16 § 1 (part), 2004; prior code § 11-1-12)
8.08.140 Disposal site rules and regulations.
   The inspector is authorized to make rules and regulations in cooperation and
agreement with the health authorities designating the manner of and hours and
limits of time dumping or depositing rubbish and garbage at the City disposal
site, and no person shall dump or deposit rubbish or garbage in violation
thereof; providing, that before the rules and regulations become effective,
appropriate signs shall be placed at or upon the premises of the City disposal
site giving notice of the rules and regulations.
(Ord. 1397.08.16 § 1 (part), 2004; prior code § 11-1-13)
8.08.150 Inspection authority.
   No person shall deny the inspector the right of ingress or egress to any
premises for the purpose of inspecting all places and containers where rubbish
or garbage is accumulated or kept.
(Ord. 1397.08.16 § 1 (part), 2004; prior code § 11- 1-14)
8.08.160 Billing cycles created—Collection authority.
   A.   All users located in the City's collection area shall be billed monthly
by approximately the fifth day of the month for which the trash collection is
to be provided.
   B.   All fees for sanitation service shall be collected by the finance
director and deposited in the City sanitation fund. Users may pay fees in
advance quarterly, semi-annually or annually, but shall be responsible for
making up any balance due caused by a legislative increase in the City's
Consolidated Fee Schedule effective during the payment period for which the
user made advance payment. The finance director is authorized and directed to
use any legal means or procedures to ensure collection of sanitation fees.
(Ord. 1397.08.16 § 1 (part), 2004; Ord. 1397.08.09 § 1 (part), 1999: prior code
§ 11-1-15)
8.08.170 Authority to waive penalty.
   The finance director shall have the authority to waive the penalties charged
on past due trash bills based on his/her determination that the application of
the penalty would create an undue hardship and that the user has a good payment
record with the City.
(Ord. 1397.08.16 § 1 (part), 2004; prior code § 11-1-16)
8.08.180 Refuse accumulation unlawful.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to permit or suffer to accumulate in or
about any yard, lot, place or premises, or upon any street, alley, or sidewalk
adjacent to the lot, yard, place or premises, owned or occupied by the person,
any garbage or refuse so as to cause the yard, lot, premises, or the street,
alley or sidewalk adjacent thereto to be or remain in such condition as to
cause or create a nuisance or offensive odor or atmosphere, or thereby to be or
become, or cause or create, a public nuisance.
   B.   It is the responsibility of the owner or legal occupant of the property
to trim trees or shrubbery on their property and in the adjacent right-of-way,
when such vegetation interferes with the movement of solid waste collection
vehicles. Upon a violation of this section, an inspector shall issue a notice
of violation to the responsible party to trim or remove the vegetation. Failure
to do so within ten calendar days after the notice has been issued may result
in the City's removal of the vegetation, and billing the owner/occupant (and
possibly imposing a lien on the property) for the City's costs of removal.
(Ord. 1397.08.16 § 1 (part), 2004; prior code § 11-1-5)
8.08.190 Burning, dumping unlawful.
   No person shall burn, incinerate, bury, dump, collect, remove or in any
other manner dispose of rubbish, garbage, green waste, or waste, except with
special permit, within the limits of the City. No person shall throw, discard
or deposit any refuse or waste in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk or vacant
ground, or in or upon any canal, irrigation ditch, drainage ditch or other
watercourse.
(Ord. 1397.08.16 § 1 (part), 2004; prior code 11-1-6)
8.08.200 Violations; enforcement.
   Nothing in this chapter shall imply or mandate that the Casa Grande
Municipal Landfill accept or retain refuse, waste, or specially treated solid
waste that is otherwise prohibited or not permitted to be accepted in
accordance with state statutes or regulations.
   A.   The City may reject collection or may return Landfill disposal of
refuse from users who do not comply with the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   If the City has refused collection or returned a particular location's
refuse three times in any 180-day period for non-compliance with the
requirements of this chapter, the City may suspend the user's ability to use
the Landfill until the user shows sufficient and relevant evidence of
compliance with this chapter such that the City can be reasonably assured that
non-compliance will not reoccur. Upon resumption of the suspended use of
Landfill for repeated violations, and upon resumption, if any, of the City's
collection activities for that user, the user must post financial assurance(s),
in the form approved by the City Attorney, which are twice the amount of the
last billing for that type of refuse or waste.
   C.   Upon ten days written notice to the user of intent to revoke Landfill
privileges and of a time for a meeting with the public services director, the
City may revoke the user's Landfill rights after more than two suspensions of
Landfill privileges within any eighteen-month time period.
(Ord. 1397.08.16 § 3 (part), 2004; Ord. 1397.08.13 § 2 (part), 2002)
8.08.210 Criminal penalty.
   A.   In addition to any enforcement action or penalty assessments against a
user as established in §
8.08.200, a person who commits a violation of this Chapter may be charged and
convicted in Casa Grande Municipal Court of a class two misdemeanor.
   B.   Upon conviction of a non-enterprise person of a violation of this
Chapter, the Court may impose a sentence of incarceration not to exceed four
months in jail or a fine not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars, exclusive
of surcharges prescribed by law, or both.
   C.   Upon conviction of an enterprise, as defined in Casa Grande Municipal
Code §
8.12.010.A., of a violation of this Chapter, the Court may impose a fine not to
exceed ten thousand dollars, exclusive of surcharges prescribed by law, or
both.
   D.   Every action or proceeding under this chapter shall be commenced and
prosecuted in accordance with the laws of the State of Arizona relating to
criminal misdemeanors and the Arizona Rules of Criminal Procedure.
(Ord. 1397.08.16 § 3 (part), 2004; Ord. 1397.08.13 § 2 (part), 2002)
8.08.220 Alternative enforcement measures.
   Nothing in this Chapter shall preclude the public services director or the
inspector from seeking voluntary compliance with the provisions of this Chapter
or from enforcing this Chapter through notices of violation, warnings, or other
informal devices designed to achieve compliance in the most efficient and
effective manner under the circumstances.
(Ord. 1397.08.16 § 3 (part), 2004; Ord. 1397.08.13 § 2 (part), 2002)
Chapter 8.12
NUISANCES, LITTER, ABANDONED OR JUNK VEHICLES
Sections:
Article I.
8.12.010   Definitions.
8.12.020   Defendants and responsible parties.
8.12.030   Public nuisances defined.
8.12.040   Public nuisances designated.
8.12.050   Parking in front or side yard.
8.12.060   Littering in public places prohibited.
8.12.070   Placement of litter in receptacles.
8.12.080   Depositing litter in gutters prohibited.
8.12.090   Throwing litter from vehicles prohibited.
8.12.100   Requirements for transportation of litter.
8.12.110   Littering in parks prohibited.
8.12.120   Littering on private property prohibited.
8.12.130   Private property owner to maintain.
8.12.135   Reserved
8.12.140   Public rights-of-way ­ owner of adjacent property to maintain.
8.12.150   Littering on vacant lots prohibited.
8.12.160   Unsightly premises prohibited.
8.12.170   Accumulation of litter on construction/demolition site prohibited.
8.12.180   Storing, parking or leaving on private property unlawful.
8.12.190   Disabled vehicles on public right-of-way unlawful.
8.12.200   Cesspools in city prohibited.
8.12.205   Smoking in and around hospital prohibited.
8.12.210   Failure to provide evidence of identity.
8.12.220   Remedies not exclusive.
8.12.230   Each day is a separate violation.
8.12.240   Alternative enforcement measures.
8.12.250   Violation ­ penalty.
8.12.260   Civil citation ­ authority to issue.
8.12.270   Habitual offender.
Article II. Abatement
8.12.280   Definitions.
8.12.290   Abatement.
8.12.300   Abatement procedure.
8.12.310   City abatement upon failure to abate by person with interest in
property.
8.12.320   Satisfaction of assessment for abatement.
8.12.330   Assessments run with the land and due in equal payments with
interest.
8.12.340   Abatement is additional remedy for violations.
8.12.350   Emergency abatement.
Article III. Appeals for notice to abate, emergency abatement action or
assessment
8.12.360   Appeals of abatement actions.
Article I.
8.12.010 Definitions.
   A.   Unless otherwise specified, the following words shall have the meanings
provided below. The definitions contained in Title 17 of the City Code shall
apply unless otherwise defined herein.
   "Abandoned or junk vehicle" means any motor vehicle or major portion
thereof, the condition of which is wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled,
inoperative, incapable of movement under its own power, or from which the
wheels, engine, transmission or other substantial part thereof has been
removed.
   "Enterprise" includes any corporation, association, labor union or other
legal entity.
   "Garbage" means putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   "Graffiti" means a drawing or an inscribed message, slogan, sign, symbol or
mark of any type that is made on any public or private building, structure or
surface, without permission of the owner.
   "Improved parking area" has the same definition of "Paved Parking Space or
Surface" as defined in Title 17, section
17.12.1140 (an area covered by an impervious dust free surface of asphalt or
concrete designed to specifications of the city engineer). If the improved
parking area existed without substantial modification prior to the initial
enactment of Casa Grande Ordinance 1178, the surface may consist of asphalt,
concrete, crushed rock, gravel, masonry, or wood maintained free of all
vegetation and contained within a permanent curb or border as defined herein.
   "Litter" means garbage, refuse, and rubbish and all other waste material
which, if thrown or deposited in such a manner prohibited by this chapter,
tends to create a danger to public health, safety and welfare.
   "Major repair" means the removal from any vehicle of a major portion thereof
including, but not limited to, the differential, transmission, head, engine
block or oil pan.
   "Motor vehicle" means any vehicle which is self-propelled and designed to
travel along the ground and includes, but is not limited to, automobiles, motor
homes, buses, motor bikes, motorcycles, motor scooters and trucks, which are
required to be registered and licensed with the Arizona State Department of
Motor Vehicles.
   "Permanent curb or border" means a delineation of the improved parking area
from the remainder of the yard area constructed of asphalt, concrete, masonry,
metal, wood or other approved permanent material secured in or embedded in the
ground.
   "Private premises" means any dwelling, house, building, place of business or
other structure, designed or used either wholly or in part for private
residential purposes or business purposes, whether inhabited or temporarily or
continuously uninhabited or vacant; and shall include any yard, grounds, walk,
driveway, porch, steps or vestibules belonging to or appurtenant to the
dwelling, house, building, place of business or other structure.
   "Public place" means any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys, or
other public ways and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and buildings.
   "Recreational vehicle" means a vehicular type portable structure without
permanent foundation, which can be towed, hauled or driven primarily designed
as a temporary living accommodation for recreational, camping and travel use
and including but not limited to travel trailers, truck campers, camping
trailers and self-propelled motor homes.
   "Refuse" means all putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes except body
wastes, including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals,
abandoned, wrecked or junked vehicles or parts thereof and solid market and
industrial wastes.
   "Rubbish" means nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible
and noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, weeds, cigarettes,
cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, leaves, metal, wood, glass, bedding,
crockery, construction materials, and similar materials.
   "Utility Trailer" means a vehicle without motive power designed for carrying
property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle.
   "Watercraft" means any craft or vehicle specifically designed for use on
water such as, but not limited to, a boat, canoe, jet ski, Pontoon or similar
type craft.
(Ord. 1397.08.15 § 1, 2004; Ord. 1397.08.10 § 1, 2000; Ord. 1397.08.07 § 3
(part), 1998)
8.12.020 Defendants and responsible parties.
   A.   Any person or enterprise who causes, permits, facilitates, aids, or
abets any violation of this Chapter or who fails to perform any act or duty
required pursuant to this Chapter is subject to the enforcement provisions of
this Chapter.
   B.    The person(s) or enterprise which is the owner, occupant, lessee,
lessor, manager, agent or other with an interest in a building, structure or
parcel of land in violation of this Chapter are jointly and severally
responsible for the violation, the prescribed civil or criminal sanctions, and
for abating the violation.
   C.   The owner of record, as recorded in the county recorder's office, of
the property upon which the violation of this Chapter exists shall be presumed
to be the person having lawful control over the structure or parcel of land. If
more than one person shall be recorded as the owner of the property, such
persons shall be jointly and severally presumed to be persons having lawful
control over a structure or parcel of land. This presumption shall not prevent
the enforcement of the provisions of this Chapter against any person specified
in subsection (A) of this section.
(Ord. 1397.08.07 § 3 (part), 1998)
8.12.030 Public nuisances defined.
   A.   A public nuisance consists of doing any act, or omitting to perform a
duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which
act, omission, condition or thing consists of one of the following:
   1.   Injures or endangers the health or safety of others;
   2.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct or renders
dangerous the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any stream,
public park, parkway, square, sidewalk, street or highway in the City, and is
no less a nuisance because the extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted is
unequal;
   3.   In any way renders other persons insecure in the life or the use of
property;
   4.   Obstructs the free use of property so as to essentially interfere with
the comfortable enjoyment of life and property by an entire community or
neighborhood, or by a considerable number of persons;
   5.   Damages or contributes to the deterioration of public property or
improvements.
(Ord. 1397.08.07 § 3 (part), 1998)
8.12.040 Public nuisances designated.
   Specific acts, omissions, places, conditions and things, such as the
erecting, maintaining, using, placing, depositing, causing, allowing, leaving
or permitting to be or remain in or upon any private lot, building, structure
or premises, in or upon any public right-of-way, street, avenue, alley, park,
parkway or other public or private place in the City of any one or more of the
following places, conditions, things or acts, to the prejudice, danger or
annoyance of others by any person, firm or corporation, are declared to be
public nuisances, including, but not limited to the following:
   1.   Privies, vaults, cesspools, sumps, pits, or like places which are not
securely protected from insects or rodents, or which are foul or malodorous;
   2.   Filthy, littered or trash covered exterior areas, including all
buildings or structures thereon and areas adjacent thereto;
   3.   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
insects and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of this code
or any other ordinance of the City or county; provided, however, that nothing
in this subsection shall be deemed to prohibit the utilization of such animal
manure on any farm, garden, lawn or ranch in such a manner and for such
purposes as are compatible with customary methods of good husbandry;
   4.   Poison oak, poison ivy, or any noxious or toxic weeds or uncultivated
plants, whether growing or otherwise, weeds, tall grass, uncultivated shrubs or
growth higher than twenty-four inches, or which presents a fire hazard;
   5.   Accumulations of bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap
iron, wire, metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken
crockery, broken glass, broken plaster, and all other trash or abandoned
material, unless the same be kept in covered bins or metal receptacles approved
by the county health officer or any ordinance of the City;
   6.   Accumulations of trash, litter, rags, empty barrels, boxes, crates,
packing cases, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing straw, packing hay, or
other packing material, lumber not neatly piled or anything whatsoever in which
insects may breed or multiply or which provides harborage for rodents or which
may create a fire hazard;
   7.   Any unsightly and dangerous building, billboard or other structure, or
any old abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure, or any building
or structure commenced and abandoned;
   8.   Any putrid, unsound or unwholesome bones, meat, hides, skins or the
whole or any part of any dead animal, fish or fowl, butcher's trimmings and
offal, or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any quantity, garbage, human
excreta, sewage, or other offensive substances; provided, nothing herein
contained shall prevent the temporary retention of waste in all receptacles in
the manner approved by the health officer of the county or ordinance of the
City;
   9.   The erection, continuance or use of any building, room or other place
in the City for the exercise of any trade, employment or manufacture which, by
noxious exhalations, including but not limited to smoke, soot, dust, fumes, or
other gases, offensive odors, or other annoyances, is discomforting or
offensive or detrimental to the health of individuals or of the public;
   10.   Causing, allowing or permitting any artificial illumination of such
intensity as to interfere substantially and unnecessarily with the use and
enjoyment of public or private property by any considerable number of people,
or with the lawful use of any school, public place or public street, or with
any governmental or public function of the City, or as to constitute a hazard
or threat to the public health, safety, and welfare of the people of the City;
   11.   Burning or disposal of refuse, sawdust, or other material in such
manner as to cause or permit ashes, sawdust, soot or cinders to be cast upon
the streets or alleys of the City, or to cause or permit the smoke, ashes, soot
or gases arising from such burning to become annoying to any considerable
number of persons or to injure or endanger the health, comfort or repose of the
persons; provided, this paragraph shall not apply where the persons responsible
for the action has properly obtained a fire permit from the fire department of
the City or the county health officer;
   12.   An unguarded or abandoned excavation, pit, well or hole dangerous to
life;
   13.   To leave or permit to remain outside of any dwelling, building or
other structure, or within any unoccupied or abandoned building, dwelling or
other structure under the control of any person and in a place accessible to
children, any abandoned, unattended or discarded ice box, refrigerator or other
container which has an airtight door or lid, snaplock or other locking device
which may not be released from the inside, without first removing the door or
lid, snaplock or other locking device from the ice box, refrigerator or
container;
   14.   The doing of any act, or omitting to perform a duty or suffering or
permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which act, omission,
condition or thing either:
   a.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct or renders
dangerous the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any stream,
public park, parkway, square, sidewalk, street or highway in the City, and is
no less a nuisance because the extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted is
unequal, or
   b.   Obstructs the free use of property so as to essentially interfere with
the comfortable enjoyment of life and property by an entire community or
neighborhood, or by a considerable number of persons.
(Ord. 1397.08.07 § 3 (part), 1998)
8.12.050 Parking in front or side yard.
   It shall be unlawful to park or store any motor vehicle, recreational
vehicle, watercraft, or utility trailer within the front or corner side yard of
a single or two-family dwelling, except a motor vehicle, other than a
recreational vehicle, may be parked on an Improved Parking Area in the front or
corner side yard provided that the Improved Parking Area does not exceed a
maximum of fifty percent of the combined area of the front and corner side
yard.
(Ord. 1397.08.07 § 3 (part), 1998)
8.12.060 Littering in public places prohibited.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, sidewalk,
alley or other public place within the City except in public receptacles, or in
authorized private receptacles for collection.
(Ord. 1397.08.07 § 3 (part), 1998)
8.12.070 Placement of litter in receptacles.
   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried,
or deposited by the element upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or
upon private property.
(Ord. 1397.08.07 § 3 (part), 1998)
8.12.080 Depositing litter in gutters prohibited.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other public
place within the City the accumulation of litter from any public or private
sidewalk or driveway or any building or lot. Persons owning or occupying
property or places of business shall keep the sidewalk and parkway in front of
their premises free of litter.
(Ord. 1397.08.07 § 3 (part), 1998)
8.12.090 Throwing litter from vehicles prohibited.
   No person, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the City, or upon private
property.
(Ord. 1397.08.07 § 3 (part), 1998)
8.12.100 Requirements for transportation of litter.
   No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the City
unless the vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any land, contents
or litter from being blown or deposited upon any street, alley or other public
place. Nor shall any person drive or move any vehicle or truck within the City,
the wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit in any street or other
public place sticky substances, litter or foreign matter of any kind.
(Ord. 1397.08.07 § 3 (part), 1998)
8.12.110 Littering in parks prohibited.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park within the City except
in public receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be prevented
from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the park or
upon any street or other public place. Where public receptacles are not
provided, all litter shall be carried away from the park by the person
responsible for its presence and properly disposed of as provided in this
chapter.
(Ord. 1397.08.07 § 3 (part), 1998)
8.12.120 Littering on private property prohibited.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied or unoccupied
private property within the City, whether owned by such person or not, except
that the owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized
private receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be
prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any public
place.
(Ord. 1397.08.07 § 3 (part), 1998)
8.12.130 Private property owner to maintain.
   The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all times
maintain the premises free of litter; provided, however, that this section
shall not prohibit the storage of litter in authorized private receptacles for
Collection.
(Ord. 1397.08.07 § 3 (part), 1998)
8.12.135 Reserved
8.12.140 Public rights-of-way owner of adjacent property to maintain.
   The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all times
maintain adjacent unutilized street right-of-way and the portion of the alley
contiguous with the property up to the centerline of the alley free of litter.
(Ord. 1397.08.07 § 3 (part), 1998)
8.12.150 Littering on vacant lots prohibited.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the City whether owned by such person or not.
(Ord. 1397.08.07 § 3 (part), 1998)
8.12.160 Unsightly premises prohibited.
   Every person owning, or managing, or having charge, control or occupancy of
any real property in the City shall not allow any part of such property visible
from the street or adjoining premises to become so unsightly or untidy as to
substantially detract from the appearance of the immediate neighborhood or tend
to threaten the safety and welfare of the immediate neighborhood.
(Ord. 1397.08.07 § 3 (part), 1998)
8.12.170 Accumulation of litter on construction/demolition site prohibited.
   It is unlawful for the owner, agent or contractor in charge of any
construction or demolition site to cause, maintain, permit or allow to be
caused, maintained or permitted the accumulation of any litter on the site
before, during or after completion of a demolition project.
(Ord. 1397.08.07 § 3 (part), 1998)
8.12.180 Storing, parking or leaving on private property unlawful.
   A.   It is unlawful for a person to park, store, leave, or permit the
parking, storing or leaving of any junk motor vehicle for a period in excess of
five days upon any private property within the City; provided, however, that
the provisions of this article shall not apply to any junk motor vehicle in:
   1.   an enclosed building or an area completely screened from view by
fencing, shrubbery, or otherwise; or
   2.   the premises of a business enterprise which is properly operated in the
appropriate business zone pursuant to the zoning laws of the City.
(Ord. 1397.08.07 § 3 (part), 1998)
8.12.190 Disabled vehicles on public right-of-way unlawful.
   A.   It is unlawful for the owner or any person having control of a motor
vehicle which is inoperable or disabled to allow the motor vehicle to remain
parked or located upon the paved or unpaved portion of any street or alley
within the City for a period of time in excess of seventy-two hours.
   B.   In the event that the owner or person having control of the vehicle
cannot be readily located, then the City may cause the vehicle to be removed
from the public right-of-way pursuant to the A.R.S. 28-4801 et seq.
(Ord. 1397.02.05 § 2, 1998; Ord. 1397.08.07 § 3 (part), 1998)
8.12.200 Cesspools in city prohibited.
   All cesspools, open vaults and privies within the City are declared to be a
nuisance, and subject to abatement. Each person, firm or association owning any
lot, grounds or premises within the City upon which there are any cesspools,
open vaults or privies, is required to forthwith remove, fill up and abate the
same, except in such cases where the City Engineer, for good cause shown, shall
grant temporary permission to maintain and use the same.
(Ord. 1397.08.07 § 3 (part), 1998)
8.12.205 Smoking in and around hospital prohibited.
   A.   Purpose.
   1.   The smoking of tobacco and other plants or weeds is a health danger to
those exposed to the smoke, and is a source of annoyance and discomfort to
those present.
    2.   For this reason, the purpose of this section is to regulate smoking in
and around the Casa Grande Regional Medical Center.
   B.   Definitions.
   "Hospital," as defined in this section, is the Casa Grande Regional Medical
Center.
   "Smoke or smoking," as defined in this section, includes the:
   a.   Carrying or placing of a lighted cigarette, cigar, pipe or any other
lighted smoking equipment in one's mouth to inhale and exhale smoke, or to blow
smoke rings;
   b.   Placing of a lighted cigarette, cigar, pipe or any other lighted
smoking equipment in an ashtray or other receptacle, and allowing smoke to
diffuse in the air; or
   c.   Carrying or placing of a lighted cigarette, cigar, pipe or any other
lighted smoking equipment in one's hands or any appendage or devices, and
allowing smoke to diffuse in the air.
   C.    Prohibition. Smoking is prohibited on hospital grounds, inside
hospital buildings and in hospital parking lots.
   D.   Civil Fine and Penalties Imposed. The civil fine/penalty for violating
the provisions of this section shall not exceed $50.00 for the first offense,
and $75.00 for each successive offense.
(Ord. 1397.08.17, 2005)
8.12.210 Failure to provide evidence of identity.
   A person who fails or refuses to provide evidence of his identity to a duly
authorized agent of the City upon request, when such agent has reasonable cause
to believe the person has committed a violation of this Chapter, is guilty of a
misdemeanor. Sufficient evidence of identity shall consist of a person's full
legal name, residence address, and date of birth.
(Ord. 1397.08.07 § 3 (part), 1998)
8.12.220 Remedies not exclusive.
   Violations of this Chapter are in addition to any other violation
established by law, and this Chapter shall not be interpreted as limiting the
penalties, actions, or abatement procedures which may be taken by the City or
other persons under existing laws, ordinances, or rules.
(Ord. 1397.08.07 § 3 (part), 1998)
8.12.230 Each day is a separate violation.
   Each day in which a violation of this Chapter continues shall constitute a
separate civil violation.
(Ord. 1397.08.07 § 3 (part), 1998)
8.12.240 Alternative enforcement measures.
   Nothing in this Chapter shall preclude City employees from seeking voluntary
compliance with the provisions of this Title/Chapter or from enforcing this
Title/Chapter through notices of violation, warnings, or other informal devices
designed to achieve compliance in the most efficient and effective manner under
the circumstances.
(Ord. 1397.08.07 § 3 (part), 1998)
8.12.250 Violation - penalty.
   A.   Any person or enterprise who is found by the court to be in violation
of any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed responsible for a
civil violation, unless otherwise designated in this Chapter.
   B.   Upon the Court finding a non-enterprise person responsible for a civil
violation of this Chapter, the court shall impose a fine in an amount not less
than $100.00 nor more than $500.00 for each violation.
   C.   Upon the Court finding an enterprise responsible for a civil violation
of this Chapter, the Court shall impose a fine in an amount of not less than
$250.00 nor more than $1000.00 for each violation.
(Ord. 1397.08.07 § 3 (part), 1998)
8.12.260 Civil citation - authority to issue.
   The City Manager or his designee may issue a civil citation pursuant to this
Chapter.
(Ord. 1397.08.07 § 3 (part), 1998)
8.12.270 Habitual offender.
   A.   A person who commits a violation of this Chapter after previously
having been found responsible for committing three or more civil violations of
this Chapter within a twenty-four month period, whether by admission, by
payment of the fine, by default, or by judgment after hearing, shall be guilty
of a class one misdemeanor.
   B.   The Casa Grande City Attorney's Office shall file a criminal
misdemeanor complaint in the Casa Grande City Court against habitual offenders
who violate this Chapter.
   C.   For purposes of calculating the twenty-four month period under this
section, the dates of the commission of the offenses are the determining
factor.
   D.   Upon conviction of a non-enterprise person of a violation of this
Chapter, the Court may impose a sentence of incarceration not to exceed six
months in jail or a fine not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars,
exclusive of penalty assessments prescribed by law, or both. The Court shall
order a person who has been convicted of this section to pay a fine of not less
than $500.00 for each count upon which a conviction has been obtained.
   E.   Upon conviction of an enterprise of a violation of this Chapter, the
Court may impose a fine not to exceed twenty thousand dollars, exclusive of
surcharges or penalty assessments prescribed by law, or both. The Court shall
order an enterprise who has been convicted of this section to pay a fine of not
less than $1000.00 for each count upon which a conviction has been obtained.
   F.   Every action or proceeding under this Section shall be commenced and
prosecuted in accordance with the laws of the State of Arizona relating to
criminal misdemeanors and the Arizona Rules of Criminal Procedure.
(Ord. 1397.08.07 § 3 (part), 1998)
Article II. Abatement
8.12.280 Definitions.
   "Property" includes buildings, grounds, lots and tracts of land.
   "Structures" includes buildings, improvements and other structures that are
constructed or placed on land.
(Ord. 1397.08.07 § 3 (part), 1998)
8.12.290 Abatement.
   As an additional remedy, or an alternative to a civil or criminal complaint,
the City shall compel any persons with an interest in the property or agents of
such persons to abate any violations of this chapter. Such abatement shall
proceed independently of any civil or criminal violation filed pursuant to this
chapter.
(Ord. 1397.08.07 § 3 (part), 1998)
8.12.300 Abatement procedure.
   A.   The City shall give reasonable written notice to abate any violation of
this chapter to all persons with an interest in the property or agents of such
persons.
   B.   Notice shall contain:
   1.   The legal description of the property;
   2.   The cost of such removal to the City if notified persons do not comply;
   3.   A date for compliance which shall not be less than thirty days after
the date notice was given;
   4.   Identification of the property in violation by street address if it
exists; and
   5.   A statement of the violation(s) in sufficient detail to allow a
reasonable person to identify and correct them.
   C.   Said written notice shall be either personally served, mailed by
certified mail at their last known address or the address to which the tax bill
for the subject property was last sent; or served in accordance with the
Arizona Rules of Civil Procedure.
   D.   The City may record the notice in the Office of Pinal County Recorder.
If such notice is recorded and compliance with the notice is subsequently
satisfied, the City shall record a release of the notice.
(Ord. 1397.08.07 § 3 (part), 1998)
8.12.310 City abatement upon failure to abate by person with interest in
property.
   A.   Upon failure of any notified person, to abate a public nuisance within
compliance time set in the written notice, the City may remove, abate, enjoin
or cause removal of the violation.
   B.   Removal, abatement, or the acquisition of an injunction may be
accomplished, at the sole discretion of the City, by City staff or an
independent contractor.
   C.   The City Manager, or his authorized representative, shall prepare a
verified statement and account of the actual cost of abatement action, legal
fees, additional inspection and other incidental connected costs.
   D.   The amount in the verified statement and account is declared as an
assessment upon the lot or tract of land on which the violation occurred. Said
assessment may be collected at the same time and in the same manner as other
City assessments are collected.
   E.   A copy of the statement and account shall be personally delivered; sent
by certified mail, return receipt requested; or served in accordance with the
Arizona Rules of Civil Procedure to all persons with an interest in the
property and/or their agents.
   F.   The assessment shall be recorded in the Pinal County Recorder's Office
and from the date of its recording shall be a lien on the lot or tract of land
and the several amounts assessed against the lot or tract of land until paid.
   1.   If the assessment was recorded before July 15, 1996, the assessment
shall be subject and inferior to the lien for general taxes and to all other
prior recorded mortgages.
   2.   If the assessment is recorded after July 15, 1996, the assessment shall
be prior and superior to all other liens, obligations mortgages or other
encumbrances, except liens for general taxes.
(Ord. 1397.08.07 § 3 (part), 1998)
8.12.320 Satisfaction of assessment for abatement.
   A.   A sale of the property to satisfy an assessment obtained under the
provisions of this section shall be made upon judgment of foreclosure and order
of sale.
   B.   The City may institute an action to enforce the lien in a competent
court of the county at any time after the recording of the assessment, but
failure to enforce the lien by such action shall not affect its validity.
   C.   The recorded assessment shall be prima facie evidence of the truth of
all matters recited therein and of the regularity of all proceedings prior to
the recording thereof.
   D.   A prior assessment or lien for the purposes provided in this section
shall not be a bar to a subsequent assessment or assessments, or lien or liens,
for such purposes, and any number of assessments or liens on the same lot or
tract of land may be enforced in the same action.
(Ord. 1397.08.07 § 3 (part), 1998)
8.12.330 Assessments run with the land and due in equal payments with interest.
   A.   Assessments that are imposed under
Chapter 8.12 run against the property until paid and are due and payable in
equal annual installments as set forth in A.R.S. 9-499(E) or any subsequent
replacement state statutory provision thereof.
   B.   An assessment that is past due accrues interest at the rate prescribed
by A.R.S. 44-1201 or any subsequent replacement state statutory provision
thereof.
(Ord. 1397.08.07 § 3 (part), 1998)
8.12.340 Abatement is additional remedy for violations.
   In addition to any fine which may be imposed for a violation of any
provision of this chapter, the person, firm or corporation shall be liable for
all costs which may be assessed pursuant to sections of this chapter for the
removal of the public nuisance.
(Ord. 1397.08.07 § 3 (part), 1998)
8.12.350 Emergency abatement.
   A.   If a situation presents an imminent hazard to life or public safety,
the City may issue a notice to abate directing the owner, occupant, operator,
or agent to take such action as is appropriate to correct or abate the
emergency upon notice by the enforcement official to the responsible person(s).
In the alternative, and at the sole discretion of the City if such situation
presents an imminent hazard to life or public safety, the City may act to
correct or abate the emergency. In the event the City is unable to contact the
owner, occupant, agent or responsible party, it in no way effects the City's
right to correct or abate the emergency. The owner, occupant, operator, agent
or responsible party shall be granted a hearing before the Building Board of
Appeals on the matter upon his/her request, as soon as practicable, but such
appeal shall in no case stay the abatement or correction of such emergency.
(Ord. 1397.08.07 § 3 (part), 1998)
Article III: Appeals for Notice to Abate, Emergency Abatement Action or
Assessment
8.12.360 Appeals of abatement actions.
   Any owner, lienholder, or other person with a property interest may appeal
any notice to abate, emergency abatement action or abatement assessment, other
than actions or assessments ordered by a court, in accordance with the
provisions and procedures of Title 17, Zoning,
Chapter 17.68, Administrative Procedures, Article VI, Procedures for Appeals to
the Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. 1397.08.27 § 1, 2018; Ord. 1397.08.07 § 3 (part), 1998)
Chapter 8.16
FIRE CODE ADOPTED
Sections:
8.16.010   International Fire Code.
8.16.020   Violation—Penalties.
8.16.010 International Fire Code.
   Those certain documents known as (i) “International Fire Code, 2018 Edition”
including appendices A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, L and N; and (ii) “City of Casa
Grande Amendments to the International Fire Code, 2018 Edition,” as set forth
in the document entitled “2019 Amendments to the City of Casa Grande Building,
Health, and Safety Codes,” both of which were made a public record by
Resolution No.5170 of the City of Casa Grande, Arizona, three copies of which
are on file in the office of the Casa Grande City Clerk, are hereby referred
to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this section.
(Ord. 1397.08.28 § 1, 2019; Ord. 1397.08.25 § 2, 2014)
8.16.020 Violation—Penalties.
   A.    It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish,
equip, use, occupy or maintain any building, structure or building service
equipment, or cause or permit the same to be done, in violation of this chapter
and the other technical codes adopted by the City of Casa Grande.
   B.   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor; and each such person, firm or
corporation shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or
portion thereof during which any violation of any provision of the code is
committed, continued or permitted. Upon conviction, each violation is
punishable by a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars (plus any
applicable surcharges), by imprisonment for not more than four months, or by
both such fine and imprisonment.
   C.   The imposition of one penalty for any violation of this chapter shall
not excuse the violation or permit it to continue. Application of the above
penalty shall not be held to preclude the forced removal of prohibited
conditions.
(Ord. 1397.08.20 § 10 (part), 2008)
Chapter 8.20
FIRE LANES
Sections:
8.20.010   Defined.
8.20.020   Established.
8.20.030   Required—Specifications.
8.20.040   Established for new and existing structures—Conformance required.
8.20.050   Applicability.
8.20.060   Obstruction of prohibited.
8.20.070   Violation—Penalty.
8.20.010 Defined.
   “Fire lane” means an area, parking lot, driveway, roadway or portion thereof
that shall be:
   A.   Designated or approved by the fire chief;
   B.   Marked with standard signs and/or other markers as approved by the fire
chief; and
   C.   Maintained clear of obstructions its entire length.
(Prior code § 5-2-11(B))
8.20.020 Established.
   The fire chief may require that fire lanes for new and existing structures
be established on private property to provide access for fire suppression
operations by the use of an improved public street, areaway, parking lot,
driveway or roadway.
(Prior code § 5-2-11(A))
8.20.030 Required—Specifications.
   Fire lanes shall be required for all structures, except residential
structures of four dwelling units or less, constructed after September 1, 1978,
in accordance with the following specifications:
   Fire lanes shall be:
   A.   To within one hundred fifty feet of an entrance to the interior or to a
point as approved by the fire chief for buildings two stories or less in
height;
   B.   To within fifty feet of an entrance to the interior or to a point as
approved by the fire chief for buildings three stories or more in height;
   C.   Be a minimum of sixteen feet in width and to have vehicle passing
points twenty-five feet in width and of length and interval as designated by
the fire chief;
   D.   Surfaced to support maximum weight of fire apparatus; surfacing may be
concrete, asphaltic concrete, brick, stone, but not necessarily limited to such
materials, as approved by the fire chief; engineering data shall be submitted
with plans review submittal to substantiate weight-bearing capacity when
required by the fire chief;
   E.   Have a vertical clearance of not less than twelve feet;
   F.   Have a maximum gradient of eight percent (eight feet in one hundred
feet);
   G.   Have forty feet minimum center line radius on curves; and
   H.   Be dead ended at no more than two hundred feet maximum length; or allow
through passage; or terminate in minimum forty foot centerline radius cul-de-
sac.
(Prior code § 5-2-11(E))
8.20.040 Established for new and existing structures—Conformance required.
   Fire lanes established for new and existing structures, except as provided
in Section
8.20.030, shall conform to fire lane requirements applicable at the time of
construction provided that if no fire lane requirements were applicable at the
time of construction, the fire chief may require establishment of fire lanes to
conform with the requirements of Section
8.20.030, insofar as is practicable without requiring any construction,
structural modification or substantial financial hardship.
(Prior code § 5-2-11(F))
8.20.050 Applicability.
   The specific requirements of this chapter as applicable to a specific
structure may be modified by the fire chief in recognition of varying
occupancies, sizes and hazards of buildings and the provision of other means of
access or fixed fire protection.
(Prior code § 5-2-11(G))
8.20.060 Obstruction of prohibited.
   It is unlawful for any person to park motor vehicles within, or otherwise
obstruct any fire lane except as may be specifically permitted by the fire
chief and violation of this section shall be treated as a misdemeanor and shall
be subject to a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars or imprisonment not to
exceed ten days or both.
(Prior code § 5-2-11(C))
8.20.070 Violation—Penalty.
   Any vehicle stopped or parked within a fire lane, established, designated
and marked in accordance with this section, may be removed at the expense of
the vehicle owner. Removal of a vehicle under such circumstances may be
authorized by the person in lawful possession of the property or by the fire
chief or his representative. The person in lawful possession of the property
shall keep designated fire lanes free of vehicles and all other obstructions.
(Prior code § 5-2-11(D))
Chapter 8.24
ALARM SYSTEMS
Sections:
8.24.010     Purpose and intent.
8.24.020     Applicability.
8.24.030     Definitions.
8.24.040      Alarm business duties.
8.24.050     Alarm user duties.
8.24.060   Proprietor alarm user’s responsibilities.
8.24.070   Duties of the monitoring agency.
8.24.080   Alarm user permit required.
8.24.090    Prohibition against automatic dialing devices.
8.24.100    Removal of non-compliant equipment.
8.24.110     Violations.
8.24.120    Right to privacy.
8.24.130    Liability of city limited.
8.24.140    Governmental immunity.
8.24.150    Penalties.
8.24.160   Fees payable.
8.24.170   Appeal procedures.
8.24.180   Enforcement.
8.24.010 Purpose and intent.
   A.   This chapter is intended to encourage improvement in the reliability of
alarm systems, devices and services, and to insure that law enforcement will
not be unduly diverted from responding to actual criminal activity as a result
of responding to false alarms.
   B.   This chapter governs burglary, panic, robbery and holdup alarms, both
audible and inaudible, intended to summon law enforcement response, and
requires alarm permit registration, provides for a fee schedule to be adopted,
provides for penalties for violations, establishes a system of administration
and sets conditions for revocation of permits, and if necessary, suspension of
law enforcement response.
(Ord. 1397.08.19 § 2 (part), 2008)
8.24.020 Applicability.
   This chapter addresses those persons who purchase, lease or rent, and those
persons who own or conduct the business of selling, leasing, renting,
maintaining or monitoring, alarm systems, devices or services within the City.
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to alarm systems owned by city,
county, state or federal governments or agencies, when such systems are
utilized on premises owned, operated and installed by the respective city,
county, state or federal government or agency. This chapter shall apply to
schools and other public and quasi-public uses. The provisions of this chapter
shall not apply to audible fire alarms or audible alarms affixed to
automobiles.
(Ord. 1397.08.19 § 2 (part), 2008)
8.24.030 Definitions.
   Except where otherwise indicated by the context, the following definitions
shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of this chapter:
   “Act of nature” means an unusual, extraordinary, sudden and unexpected
manifestation of the forces of nature, the effects of which cannot be prevented
by reasonable human care, skill or foresight.
   “Alarm or alarm system” means any mechanical or electrical device used for
alerting others of unauthorized entry, an emergency, or the commission of an
unlawful act within buildings or on premises.
   “Alarm agent” means any person employed by an alarm business, either
directly or indirectly, whose duties include any of the following: installing,
maintaining, servicing or repairing an alarm or alarm system in or on any
building, place or premises. Any person whose duties consist solely of
resetting an alarm following activation is not an alarm agent.
   “Alarm business” means any person, firm or corporation that is in the
business of selling, leasing, maintaining, servicing or repairing any alarm or
alarm system in or on any building, structure or facility.
   “Alarm coordinator” means the police chief, or an individual designated by
the police chief to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   “Alarm permit” means written authorization granted by the alarm coordinator
to an alarm user to operate an alarm system.
   “Alarm site” means any single location served by an alarm system or alarm
systems. Each unit, if served by separate alarm systems in a multi-unit
building/complex, shall be considered a separate alarm site.
   “Alarm user” means any person or business that leases, rents, purchases or
uses a monitored or proprietor alarm, alarm system, device or service.
   “Audible alarm” means a device designed for the detection of unauthorized
entry of premises and which, when activated, generates an audible sound on the
premises.
   “Automatic dialing device” means a device that is interconnected to a
telephone line, and is programmed to select a predetermined telephone number
and transmit an emergency message indicating a need for emergency response,
either by voice or code signal or by maintaining an open line with emergency
services.
   “Cost recovery” means an assessment for the recovery of costs incurred by
the police department in responding to false alarm activations.
   “False alarm” means an alarm signal or message indicating an emergency,
causing the police department to respond and which, upon investigation, results
in a police officer finding no evidence of a criminal offense or an emergency
situation. Excluded from the definition of “false alarm” are:
   1.   Alarms occurring as a result of an acts of nature;
   2.   Any disruption of the telephone circuit beyond the control of the alarm
company and/or user;
   3.   Electrical power disruptions or failure; and
   4.   Alarms caused by failure of the equipment at the monitoring station.
   “Holdup/robbery alarm” means any signal manually activated to indicate a
robbery or holdup in progress, but is not the result of a robbery, holdup, or
any exclusion from the “false alarm” definition listed above.
   “Monitoring station” means any person in the business of providing
monitoring services that will notify the police department of an emergency.
   “Panic alarm” means an alarm system signal generated by the manual
activation of a device intended to signal a life-threatening or emergency
situation, requesting law enforcement response.
   “Person” means an individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
corporation, estate, trust, or any other group or combination acting as a unit,
and the plural as well as the singular number.
   “Proprietor alarm” means any alarm or alarm system that is not leased or
rented from, or owned or maintained under contract by an alarm business.
(Ord. 1397.08.19 § 2 (part), 2008)
8.24.040 Alarm business duties.
   In addition to other duties that may be set forth in this chapter, the
duties of an alarm business shall be as follows:
   A.   To install an alarm system compatible with the environment, to take
reasonable measures to prevent the occurrence of false alarms, and, if it has
agreed to provide maintenance or repair service to the system, to service the
system within seventy-two hours of a request for service. The alarm business
shall not install a single-action, non-recessed button as a device to activate
a holdup or panic alarm.
   B.   To provide written and oral instructions to each of its alarm
subscribers, and the principal occupants of the buildings or premises protected
by an alarm system, in the proper use and operation of the system. Such
instruction will specifically include all instructions to turn the alarm system
on and off, and to avoid false alarms.
   C.   To provide each purchaser and subscriber with a copy of this chapter,
an alarm subscriber/proprietor permit application, and false alarm prevention
material. The alarm business shall complete and sign the alarm subscriber/alarm
company information form with the alarm subscriber/user, and submit the form as
required in Subsection G. of this section.
   D.   Upon leasing or renting an alarm system:
   1.   To conspicuously place on the premise a tag identifying the alarm
business, including a telephone number to call when the alarm has been
activated.
   2.   To maintain current records of the locations of alarm system, devices
or services, and the names and telephone numbers of the persons and alternates
to be notified whenever the alarm is activated.
   3.   To inactivate or cause to be inactivated the audible alarm within
thirty minutes of the notification of its activation, in the event the primary
and alternate cannot be contacted or do not respond.
   E.   Upon leasing, renting, selling or monitoring an alarm system:
   1.   To establish a central receiving station that will monitor these alarm
systems. The central receiving station shall attempt to contact the alarmed
location by telephonic or other electronic means on every alarm signal, except
a holdup, robbery, panic or similar duress alarm activation, whether or not
actual contact with a person is made, before requesting a police response to an
alarm system signal.
   2.      To organize its central receiving station in order to be able to
readily and positively identify the type of alarm, including but not limited
to, burglary, holdup or panic alarm, and the location of the alarm, if there is
more than one system, whether the alarm is audible or silent, the alarm
subscriber permit number, the description of the zone or sensor activated, and
the name and response time of a responsible party.
   3.      To maintain records as to each of these alarm systems, devices or
services, which shall include the name of the owner or occupant of the
premises, the name and the telephone number of the subscriber, a primary person
and at least one alternate responsible for responding to the premises when the
alarm is activated, information concerning whether the alarm system includes an
audible alarm, and records of any alarm activation for a period of one year
from the date of the activation. The records required by this paragraph shall
be made available for inspection to any state law enforcement officer or city
regulatory licensing inspections official, upon twenty days' prior written
demand. The business may require the law enforcement officer or inspector to
complete an inspection log with name, serial or badge number, time, date, and
purpose of the inspection.
   4.   To notify the police department of activated alarm systems in the
manner prescribed by the police chief, including such reasonable information
concerning the alarm system as the police department may request. Reasonable
information shall include copies of central station alarm activity reports, the
names of persons from the activated alarm location who have contracted with the
alarm business, and any mailing or telephonic information for the activated
alarm location. The information shall be made available at any reasonable time
upon request for inspection by police department representatives.
   5.   To arrange for either the alarm subscriber, alarm agent or other
responsible representative to go to the premises of an activated alarm system
within thirty minutes of the activation of the alarm, in order to be available
to assist the police in determining the reason for activation, and in securing
the premises. In no event shall there be an unreasonable delay in arriving at
the location of the alarm.
   6.   To notify the alarm subscriber or other responsible person, in the case
of a monitored alarm system, of all alarm activations at the alarm subscriber's
premises within twenty-four hours of activation, not including weekends and
holidays, by telephone, facsimile transmission, or written notice deposited in
the United States mail.
   F.   To cease responsibility for an alarm system pursuant to the chapter,
the alarm business shall send written notice to the police department in the
event the alarm business ceases to lease, rent, maintain service, or monitor
any alarm system. The notice shall be sent within ten days after the date
service or responsibility is discontinued.
   G.   To submit, on a form and in the manner prescribed by the police chief,
such information concerning compliance of the alarm business with its duties
under this section as the police chief may request. An alarm business
representative and the subscriber shall complete and sign the alarm subscriber/
alarm company information form, and the alarm business shall submit the form to
the police department within ten days of commencement of service for the alarm
system.
   H.   Alarm businesses that do not monitor, maintain, service or install
alarms or alarm systems, except as set forth in this Subsection H., shall not
be subject to Subsections A. through F. of this section, but shall be
responsible for instructing each person who purchases an alarm or alarm system
in the proper use and operation of the alarm, informing each alarm subscriber
or alarm purchaser to contact the police department for information regarding
this chapter, advising each alarm subscriber or alarm purchaser of the
requirement of an alarm subscriber permit, and providing a copy of this chapter
to each alarm subscriber or alarm purchaser. Such instruction will specifically
include all instructions necessary to turn off the alarm and to avoid false
alarms. Any alarm business that sells an alarm or an alarm system with
monitoring services, or leases, rents, installs, maintains or services an alarm
or alarm system with monitoring services, shall be subject to Subsections A.
through G. of this section.
   I.   Any alarm business that monitors, but does not sell, lease, rent,
install, service or maintain alarms or alarm systems shall be subject to
Subsections E., F. and G. of this section.
   J.   Any alarm business that sells or installs alarms or alarm systems
without monitoring services, and does not lease, rent, install, maintain or
service alarms or alarm systems, shall be subject to Subsections C., D. and G.
of this section.
(Ord. 1397.08.19 § 2 (part), 2008)
8.24.050 Alarm user duties.
   In addition to other duties that may be set forth in this chapter, the
duties of an alarm user shall be:
   A.   To obtain an alarm permit within ten days of installation of an alarm
system.
   B.   To inform persons authorized to place the alarm system into operation
of the provisions of this chapter, emphasizing the importance of avoiding false
alarms. A current copy of the provisions of this chapter shall be maintained on
the premises, and shall be made available to persons authorized to install an
alarm system into operation.
   C.   To obtain a new permit within ten days if the alarm user moves to
another location. Any other change in the alarm user's service shall be sent to
the alarm coordinator within ten days of the change.
   D.   To respond in person or via designated responsible party to the alarm
system's location within thirty minutes of alarm activation, or when requested
by law enforcement, in order to:
   1.   Deactivate an alarm system; and/or
   2.   Provide access to the alarm site.
   E.   To renew the permit annually, as long as the alarm system is in
operation.
   F.   To maintain the alarm or alarm system in good working order, and take
reasonable measures to prevent the occurrence of false alarms.
   G.   To disconnect any alarm system upon notice of revocation.
   H.   To ensure that the alarm system is not subject to false alarms.
(Ord. 1397.08.19 § 2 (part), 2008)
8.24.060 Proprietor alarm user’s responsibilities.
   In addition to other duties that may be set forth in this chapter, the
duties of a proprietor alarm user shall be:
   A.   To be familiar with the provisions of this chapter, and to obtain an
alarm permit from the alarm coordinator within ten days of installation of any
alarm system.
   B.   To maintain the alarm system in good working order, and to take
reasonable measures to prevent the occurrence of false alarms.
   C.   To notify the alarm coordinator of the names, addresses, and telephone
numbers of the primary person and at least two alternates to be notified, in
case the alarm is activated and law enforcement is called to respond.
   D.   To deactivate the alarm system within thirty minutes of notification of
its activation.
   E.   To ensure that the alarm system is not subject to false alarms.
(Ord. 1397.08.19 § 2 (part), 2008)
8.24.070 Duties of the monitoring agency.
   In addition to other duties that may be set forth in this chapter, the
duties of a monitoring agency shall be:
   A.   To establish a monitoring station in order to monitor alarm systems.
   B.   To organize its monitoring station in order to be able to readily and
positively identify the type of alarm (i.e., burglary, robbery/holdup, or
panic), and the location of the alarm(s) if there is more than one system.
   C.   To maintain current records as to each of the alarms or alarm systems,
which shall include the alarm permit number, the name of the owner or occupant
of the premises, the name and telephone number of the user or primary person
and at least two alternates responsible for responding to the premises when the
alarm is activated, and information concerning whether the alarm system
includes an audible alarm.
   D.   To provide law enforcement with the alarm permit number for the
premises, residence or location of the alarm activation at the time law
enforcement is dispatched.
   E.   To arrange for either the alarm user, alarm agent, or other responsible
representative to go to the premises of an activated alarm system, in order to
assist law enforcement in determining the reason for activation, and in
securing the premises.
   F.   To cease responsibility for an alarm system pursuant to this chapter,
the alarm business shall promptly notify the alarm coordinator in the event the
alarm business ceases to lease, rent, maintain, service or monitor any alarm
system. Such notice that the alarm business is no longer providing service
shall be sent to the alarm coordinator within ten days of termination of
service.
   G.   Alarm businesses that sell alarms but do not monitor, maintain, lease,
service or install alarms or alarm systems shall not be subject to Subsections
B. and E. of this section, but shall be responsible for instructing each person
that purchases an alarm or alarm system in the proper use and operation of the
alarm. Each instruction will specifically include necessary instructions in
turning off the alarm(s), and in avoiding false alarms.
   H.   Alarm businesses and monitoring agencies shall possess a City business
license.
(Ord. 1397.08.19 § 2 (part), 2008)
8.24.080 Alarm user permit required.
   A.   Each alarm user shall obtain an alarm permit from the alarm coordinator
for each alarm system within ten days of installation of an alarm system. For
alarms installed prior to the effective date of this chapter (June 1, 2008),
alarm permits must be obtained from the alarm coordinator's office no later
than August 31, 2008. The application for an alarm permit provided by the alarm
coordinator must include two alternate parties, along with appropriate contact
information, designated to respond in the event of an alarm activation. The
application shall include a permit fee as established in the City's
Consolidated Fee Schedule. An alarm permit must be available within the
premises protected by the alarm, and available for inspection by the police
department when responding to an alarm activation. Alarm permits are not
transferable from one user to another user, or from one address to another
address.
   B.   Each alarm user shall renew its permit yearly. As part of the renewal,
each alarm user shall attest annually that the alarm system remains active, and
that the information provided on the application remains current at all times.
Alarm users shall notify the alarm coordinator of any changes to the
information provided on the application, and shall further notify the alarm
coordinator if the alarm system is deactivated as set forth elsewhere in this
chapter.
(Ord. 1397.08.19 § 2 (part), 2008)
8.24.090 Prohibition against automatic dialing devices.
   No person shall use, or cause to be used, any automatic telephone device or
telephone attachment that directly or indirectly causes a public primary
telephone trunk line of Pinal County to be utilized, and then reproduces a
prerecorded message or signal or otherwise maintains an open line without
direct person-to-person communication, or prevents termination of a call.
(Ord. 1397.08.19 § 2 (part), 2008)
8.24.100 Removal of non-compliant equipment.
   In addition to any other remedy provided by law, the police department may,
upon obtaining knowledge of the use of any device or attachment not operated or
maintained in accordance with the provision of this chapter, obtain an order
for the removal of such device or attachment, without liability or cost to the
City. All alarm systems and components must comply with the provisions of the
City’s building codes.
(Ord. 1397.08.19 § 2 (part), 2008)
8.24.110 Violations.
   A.   Failure or refusal to comply with any section of this chapter shall be
a violation and subject to assessment of a fee, penalty, sanction or cost
recovery fee as set forth in Section
8.24.150.
   B.   No person shall intentionally cause the activation of an alarm system,
knowing that it may result in the dispatch of police or fire personnel and
equipment, when no criminal or emergency condition exists. Any person causing
such alarm activation shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor, and upon
conviction, shall be liable for a fine of not less than five hundred dollars,
nor more than one thousand dollars, plus any additional surcharges authorized
or mandated by law, or sentenced to not more than one hundred eighty days in
jail, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 1397.08.19 § 2 (part), 2008)
8.24.120 Right to privacy.
   Information provided pursuant to this chapter shall be maintained for use by
the police department, and shall not be made available to the public without
the authorization of the applicant or order of the court. The City is not
subject to liability in the event that information provided to the police
department is inadvertently released.
(Ord. 1397.08.19 § 2 (part), 2008)
8.24.130 Liability of city limited.
   The police department shall take every reasonable precaution to assure that
alarm notifications received are given appropriate attention and acted upon
with appropriate dispatch. Nevertheless, the City shall not be liable for any
failure or neglect to respond upon receipt of an alarm notification, or the
failure or neglect of any person with a permit issued pursuant to this chapter,
or with a franchise in connection with the installation and operation of
equipment, the transmission of alarm signals, or the relaying of such signals
and messages. In the event the alarm coordinator revokes the alarm user's
permit or causes the disconnection of an alarm device, the City, county, state,
and their agents and employees shall incur no liability resulting from such
action.
(Ord. 1397.08.19 § 2 (part), 2008)
8.24.140 Governmental immunity.
   An alarm permit issued pursuant to this chapter does not establish or create
any duty or obligation of response from law enforcement personnel. Any and all
liability and consequential damages resulting from a failure to respond to a
notification is hereby disclaimed, and governmental immunity as provided by law
is retained. By applying for an alarm permit, the alarm user acknowledges that
law enforcement response may be influenced by factors such as: the availability
of police units, priority of calls, weather conditions, traffic conditions,
emergency conditions, staffing levels and prior response history.
(Ord. 1397.08.19 § 2 (part), 2008)
8.24.150 Penalties.
   A.   For any alarm user or proprietor alarm failing to prevent false alarms
(other than panic, robbery/holdup and similar manually operated distress
alarms, which are governed by Subsection B. of this section) during a permit
year, a cost recovery fee for responding to such false alarms is hereby
established. The amount of the fee shall be set forth in the City's
Consolidated Fee Schedule; provided, however, that no fee shall be assessed for
the first two false alarms in any permit year. Notwithstanding any other
provision of this chapter, any alarm user or proprietor with ten false alarms
shall have their permit revoked.
   B.   For any alarm user or proprietor alarm failing to prevent false alarms
of a panic, robbery/holdup, or other similar manually operated distress alarm
during a permit year, a cost recovery fee for responding to such false alarms
is hereby established. The amount of the fee shall be set forth in the City's
Consolidated Fee Schedule; provided, however, that no fee shall be assessed for
the first false alarm in any permit year. Notwithstanding any other provision
of this chapter, any alarm user or proprietor with six false alarms shall have
their permit revoked.
   C.   Fees for violations of any provision of this chapter, other than those
set forth in Subsections A. and B. above, shall be set forth in the City's
Consolidated Fee Schedule. Each violation of a provision of this chapter, and
each day that such violation continues, shall be a separate offense.
   D.   In the event of five or more false alarms within a permit year for any
alarm system, the alarm coordinator shall notify the alarm user of these
excessive false alarm violations by certified mail, and shall direct the alarm
user, within ten days of receipt of this notice, to submit a report to the
alarm coordinator, describing the corrective actions to be taken to eliminate
the false alarms. A copy of the notification shall be sent to the alarm
business or agent providing service to the alarm user. Refusal of an alarm user
to accept or receive the certified mail shall not excuse the alarm user from
compliance with this section, and any alarm user so refusing or failing to
accept certified mail shall be deemed to have received notice as of the date of
final attempt of the United States Postal Service to affect delivery.
   E.   Upon receipt of an alarm user's report detailing the corrective
measures to be taken, the alarm coordinator shall determine whether such
measures are reasonably calculated to correct future false alarms, and if
acceptable, shall confirm with the alarm user that the permit shall be
continued conditioned upon faithful performance of the corrective measures
detailed in the report. In the event an alarm user whose corrective measures
have been accepted by the alarm coordinator suffers additional false alarms
during the permit year as a result or related to failure to follow the
corrective measures, the alarm coordinator may revoke the permit by providing
notice via certified mail to the alarm user that the permit is revoked
effective ten days from the date that notification is received.
   F.   If no report is submitted or if the alarm coordinator determines that
the actions taken are not reasonably calculated to prevent the reoccurrence of
false alarms, the alarm coordinator shall give notice by certified mail to the
alarm user that the alarm permit is revoked effective ten days from the date
notification is received.
   G.   If an alarm user fails to pay any fee, cost recovery fee, or other
assessment imposed in accordance with this chapter, within the time set forth
in Section
8.24.160, the alarm permit shall be revoked and late penalties may be assessed
as set forth in the City's Consolidated Fee Schedule. The alarm coordinator
shall give notice by certified mail to the alarm user that the alarm permit is
revoked, effective ten days from the date notification is received.
   H.   An alarm user whose permit has been revoked shall be immediately
furnished written notification by certified mail of such revocation, and shall
discontinue the use of the alarm system with respect to which a permit has been
revoked. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any alarm user to fail to
disconnect such system within ten days after written notification has been
received advising the alarm user of the revocation of the alarm permit. Failure
to disconnect the alarm system shall subject the alarm user to a penalty, in
addition to the cost recovery fee, pursuant to the City's Consolidate Fee
Schedule.
   I.   For purposes of this chapter, notice shall be effective if the same is
mailed to the alarm user at the address furnished to the alarm coordinator on
the permit application form, or at such other address as the alarm user may
subsequently furnish in writing to the alarm coordinator. Such notice shall
also be effective if mailed to the alarm business at the address provided to
the alarm coordinator in connection with the filing of alarm user instructions,
or alternatively, to the last known address of the alarm business. In this
chapter, for notices other than by certified mail, notice shall be deemed given
on the third day after the notice has been deposited in the United States mail
with sufficient postage attached. For notices required to be sent by certified
mail, such notice is effective when received; provided, however, that failure
or refusal of to accept or receive certified mail shall not excuse performance
of any duties, and any person or entity so refusing to accept certified mail
shall be deemed to have received notice as of the final attempt of the United
States Postal Service to affect delivery.
   J.   An alarm user whose alarm permit has been revoked may have it
reinstated by paying all fees and/or penalties, submitting a corrective report
detailing the corrective action taken, with verification of inspection for
malfunctions attached, and payment of a reinstatement fee. Any further
violations during a permit year shall be grounds for summary revocation, upon
providing notice by certified mail as set forth above.
(Ord. 1397.08.19 § 2 (part), 2008)
8.24.160 Fees payable.
   Any and all fees provided for by this chapter shall be paid to the finance
department within thirty days from the date a bill therefor is deposited in the
regular first class U.S. Mail, with postage fully paid and addressed to the
user at the address where the alarm system is operated. Fees not paid in full
at the end of such period shall be subject to a late fee, and may result in
permit revocation proceedings by the alarm coordinator, as set forth in
Subsection
8.24.150.G.
(Ord. 1397.08.19 § 2 (part), 2008)
8.24.170 Appeal procedures.
   Within ten days after the effective date of written notification of a
violation of this chapter or of revocation of a permit, the alarm user or other
aggrieved party may appeal to the chief of police, on forms provided by and
subject to procedures established by the chief. Upon receipt of a notice of
appeal, the chief of police shall cause an investigation into the reason for
the City's action, and shall inform the alarm user of his findings and decision
within twenty days. If the alarm user is dissatisfied with the decision of the
chief of police, he/she may appeal to the city manager within ten days from the
effective date of written notification of the decision of the chief of police.
The decision of the city manager shall be final.
(Ord. 1397.08.19 § 2 (part), 2008)
8.24.180 Enforcement.
   A.   The City may pursue any and all lawful remedies necessary for the
purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter. Action may be commenced in
the name of the City in any court of competent jurisdiction, for the amount of
any delinquent fees or fines. Such legal action shall also require the
inclusion of court costs, legal and attorneys' fees.
   B.   The finance director shall withhold the issuance of any business
license, until any and all fees prescribed in this chapter have been paid in
full. Upon notification of outstanding fees resulting from violations of this
chapter, the City may withhold other permits, licenses or administrative
approvals.
(Ord. 1397.08.19 § 2 (part), 2008)
Chapter 8.28
SALE OF EPHEDRINE AND PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCTS
Sections:
8.28.010   Definitions.
8.28.020   Security of ephedrine and pseudoephedrine products.
8.28.030   Sale by pharmacist or licensed pharmacy technician..
8.28.040   Purchaser identification requirements.
8.28.050   Minimum age requirement.
8.28.060   Duty to maintain log.
8.28.070   Duty to submit log to the chief of police.
8.28.080   Violation—Penalty.
8.28.010 Definitions.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “Licensed pharmacy technician” is a person licensed by the state to assist a
pharmacist.
   “Pharmacist” means a person licensed by the state in the art, practice, or
profession of preparing, preserving, compounding, and dispensing medical drugs.
   “Product containing ephedrine or pseudoephedrine” includes any compound,
mixture or preparation that contains any detectable quantity of ephedrine or
pseudoephedrine or its salts, optical isomers or salts of optical isomers.
Product packaging that lists ephedrine or pseudoephedrine as an active
ingredient shall constitute prima facie evidence that it is a “product
containing ephedrine or pseudoephedrine.”
   “Proper photo identification” shall mean a recognized government-issued
photo identification of the purchaser, including but not limited to, a driver's
license, identification card, tribal identification card or passport.
   “Retail establishment” means any place of business that offers any
pseudoephedrine product for sale.
(Ord. 08.18 § 1 (part), 2006)
8.28.020 Security of ephedrine and pseudoephedrine products.
   The operator of a retail establishment shall keep all products containing
ephedrine or pseudoephedrine behind the pharmacy counter or otherwise in a
manner that is inaccessible to customers without the assistance of a pharmacist
or a licensed pharmacy technician.
(Ord. 08.18 § 1 (part), 2006)
8.28.030 Sale by pharmacist or licensed pharmacy technician.
   It shall be required that any compound, mixture or preparation that contains
detectable quantities of ephedrine or pseudoephedrine be sold by a pharmacist
or a licensed pharmacy technician.
(Ord. 08.18 § 1 (part), 2006)
8.28.040 Purchaser identification requirements.
   Pharmacists and licensed pharmacy technicians selling products containing
ephedrine or pseudoephedrine shall require proper photo identification from the
purchaser.
(Ord. 08.18 § 1 (part), 2006)
8.28.050 Minimum age requirement.
   It shall be unlawful to sell products containing ephedrine or
pseudoephedrine to persons under the age of eighteen, and it shall be unlawful
for persons under the age of eighteen to purchase or attempt to purchase
products containing ephedrine or pseudoephedrine.
(Ord. 08.18 § 1 (part), 2006)
8.28.060 Duty to maintain log. 
   A.   Pharmacists and licensed pharmacy technicians shall record in a log:
the purchaser's name, date of birth, address, and quantity of ephedrine or
pseudoephedrine product purchased. The pharmacist or the licensed pharmacy
technician shall initial the log and the purchaser shall sign the log.
   B.   The log will be considered a confidential document and shall only be
available to the retailer, City of Casa Grande Police Department Officers,
Arizona Department of Public Safety Officers, Pinal Sheriff's Department
Deputies, and other law enforcement officers.
   C.   The log requirements set forth in this section do not apply to
ephedrine or pseudoephedrine dispensed pursuant to a valid prescription.
(Ord. 08.18 § 1 (part), 2006)
8.28.070 Duty to submit the log to the chief of police.
   By the tenth day of each month, any person required to maintain a log in
Section
8.28.060 shall submit the log containing the previous month's sales to the
chief of police.
(Ord. 08.18 § 1 (part), 2006)
8.28.080 Violation—Penalty.
   A.   A violation of any provision of this chapter is a Class 1 misdemeanor.
   B.   Each day a violation of this chapter continues shall constitute a
separate violation.
   C.   Each violation of any requirement of this chapter constitutes a
separate offense.
(Ord. 08.18 § 1 (part), 2006)
Chapter 8.30
RESPONSIBLE ADULT USE OF MARIJUANA PROHIBITIONS
Sections:
8.30.010   Purpose.
8.30.020   Definitions.
8.30.030   Marijuana prohibited on public property.
8.30.040   Marijuana establishment prohibited—Dual licensee excepted
8.30.050   Marijuana testing facility prohibited.
8.30.060   Delivery prohibited.
8.30.070   Violations—Enforcement—Penalties.
8.30.010 Purpose.
   This chapter is adopted to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the
community. Except as allowed by law for personal, private use, the City
prohibits the retail sale, cultivation, storage, and manufacturing of marijuana
or marijuana products in the City, with the exception of retail sales by a dual
licensee, as defined herein, in compliance with the regulations set forth in
this chapter. Nothing in this article is intended to promote or condone the
sale, cultivation, manufacture, transport, production, distribution,
possession, storage, or use of marijuana or marijuana products in violation of
any applicable law.
(Ord. 1397.08.29 § 1 (part), 2021)
8.30.020 Definitions.
   The following words and phrases, wherever used in this article, shall be
construed as defined in this section unless, clearly from the context, a
different meaning is intended. Words used in the present tense include the
future tense, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words
in the singular number include the plural number.
   "Consume," "consuming," and "consumption" mean the act of ingesting,
inhaling, or otherwise introducing marijuana into the human body.
   "Consumer" means an individual who is at least twenty-one years of age and
who purchases marijuana or marijuana products.
   "Cultivate" and "cultivation" mean to propagate, breed, grow, prepare, and
package marijuana.
   "Department" means the State of Arizona Department of Health Services or its
successor agency.
   "Dual licensee" means an entity that holds both a nonprofit medical
marijuana dispensary registration and a marijuana establishment license.
   "Extraction" means the process of extracting or separating resin from
marijuana to produce or process any form of marijuana concentrates using water,
lipids, gases, solvents, or other chemicals or chemical processes.
   "Manufacture" and "manufacturing" means to compound, blend, extract, infuse,
or otherwise make or prepare a marijuana product.
   "Marijuana:"
   1.   Means all parts of the plant of the genus cannabis, whether growing or
not, as well as the seeds from the plant, the resin extracted from any part of
the plant, and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or
preparation of the plant or its seeds or resin.
   2.   Includes cannabis as defined in A.R.S. § 3-3401.
   3.   Does not include industrial hemp, the fiber produced from the stalks of
the plant of the genus cannabis, oil, or cake made from the seeds of the plant,
sterilized seeds of the plant that are incapable of germination, or the weight
of any other ingredient combined with marijuana to prepare topical or oral
administrations, food, drink, or other products.
   "Marijuana concentrate"
   1.   Means resin extracted from any part of a plant of the genus cannabis
and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of
that resin or tetrahydrocannabinol.
   2.   Does not include industrial hemp or the weight of any other ingredient
combined with cannabis to prepare topical or oral administrations, food, drink,
or other products.
   "Marijuana establishment" means an entity licensed by the Department to
operate all of the following:
   1.   A single retail location at which the licensee may sell marijuana and
marijuana products to consumers, cultivate marijuana, and manufacture marijuana
products.
   2.   A single off-site cultivation location at which the licensee may
cultivate marijuana, process marijuana, and manufacture marijuana products, but
from which marijuana and marijuana products may not be transferred or sold to
consumers.
   3.   A single off-site location at which the licensee may manufacture
marijuana products and package and store marijuana and marijuana products, but
from which marijuana and marijuana products may not be transferred or sold to
consumers.
   "Marijuana products" means marijuana concentrate and products that are
composed of marijuana and other ingredients and that are intended for use or
consumption, including edible products, ointments, and tinctures.
   "Marijuana testing facility" means the Department or another entity that is
licensed by the Department to analyze the potency of marijuana and test
marijuana for harmful contaminants.
   "Nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary"" means a non-profit entity as
defined in A.R.S. § 36-2801(12).
   "Open space" means a public park, public sidewalk, public walkway, public
trail, preserve, public pedestrian thoroughfare, or public rights-of-way.
   "Person" means an individual, partnership, corporation, association, or any
other entity of whatever kind or nature.
   "Process" and "processing" means to harvest, dry, cure, trim, or separate
parts of the marijuana plant.
   "Public place" has the same meaning prescribed in the Smoke-Free-Arizona
Act, A.R.S. § 36-601.01.
   "Smoke" means to inhale, exhale, burn, carry, or possess any lighted
marijuana or lighted marijuana products, whether natural or synthetic.
(Ord. 1397.08.29 § 1 (part), 2021)
8.30.030 Marijuana prohibited on public property.
   A.   To the fullest extent allowable by law, it is unlawful to:
      1.   Sell or distribute, store, cultivate, manufacture, or produce
marijuana or marijuana products on or in property that is occupied, owned,
controlled, or operated by the City;
      2.   Smoke marijuana or consume marijuana products in an open space in
the City or on or in property that is occupied, owned, controlled, or operated
by the City;
      3.   Smoke marijuana in a public place in the City.
   B.   A violation of Subsection A(l) shall be a Class 2 misdemeanor. A
violation of Subsection A(2) or A(3) shall be punishable as a petty offense.
(Ord. 1397.08.29 § 1 (part), 2021)
8.30.040 Marijuana establishment prohibited—Dual licensee excepted.
   To the fullest extent allowable by law, the operation of a marijuana
establishment is prohibited in the City, except where authorized for a dual
licensee who:
   A.   Operates both a nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary and marijuana
establishment cooperatively in a shared location; and
   B.   Has not forfeited or terminated the nonprofit medical marijuana
dispensary registration from the Department.
(Ord. 1397.08.29 § 1 (part), 2021)
8.30.050 Marijuana testing facility prohibited.
   To the fullest extent allowable by law, the operation of a marijuana testing
facility is prohibited in the City.
(Ord. 1397.08.29 § 1 (part), 2021)
8.30.060 Delivery prohibited.
   It is unlawful to solicit, facilitate, or accept orders for delivery, or to
deliver marijuana or marijuana products in the City; provided that the
prohibition in this section shall not apply when delivery is done by a
nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary in compliance with the Department rules
and requirements governing the Arizona Medical Marijuana Program.
(Ord. 1397.08.29 § 1 (part), 2021)
8.30.070 Violations—Enforcement—Penalties.
   A.   It is unlawful and a violation of this chapter for a person to sell,
cultivate, process, manufacture, store, or transport marijuana or marijuana
products if the person fails to meet all the requirements in this chapter or
state law, including the Department's rules.
   B.   Each day any violation of any provision of this chapter shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense.
   C.   Except as otherwise provided in A.R.S. § 36-2853, A.R.S. § 36-2854, or
as otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, any violation of this
chapter not specifically designated shall be a Class 1 misdemeanor.
   D.   For purposes of this chapter, a violation of any provision of the
chapter or code shall mean any of the following:
      1.   Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an
offense or a misdemeanor, by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by
ordinance.
      2.   Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by
ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
      3.   Failure to perform an act if the failure is declared a misdemeanor
or an offense or unlawful by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by
ordinance
      4.   In this section, a violation of the chapter or code includes
causing, allowing, permitting, aiding, abetting, suffering, or concealing a
violation of this chapter or code.
      5.   Officers of any corporation or partners of any firm or entity that
are found to have committed a violation of this code shall be individually
subject to fine and/or imprisonment for the violation by the entity.
   E.   Violations of this chapter are in addition to any other violation
enumerated within the City ordinances or the City Code, and in no way limits
the penalties, actions, or abatement procedures which may be taken by the City
for any violation of this chapter, which is also a violation of any other
ordinance or code provision of the City or federal or state law. Conviction and
punishment of judgment and civil sanction against any person under this chapter
shall not relieve such person from the responsibility of correcting prohibited
conditions, or removing prohibited structures or improvements, and shall not
prevent the enforced correction or removal thereof.
   F.   The remedies provided in this chapter shall be cumulative and in
addition to any other federal, state, or local remedy, which may be available.
Nothing contained herein shall be construed to preclude prosecution under any
other applicable statute, ordinance, rule, order, or regulation.
(Ord. 1397.08.29 § 1 (part), 2021)
Chapter 8.32
GRAFFITI
Sections:
8.32.010   Definitions.
8.32.020   Sale and display of aerosol spray paint container.
8.32.030   Graffiti removal.
8.32.010 Definitions.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “Aerosol spray paint container” means any aerosol container adapted or made
for the purpose of applying spray paint or any other substance capable of
defacing property.
   “Felt tip marker” means any broad-tipped marker pen with a tip exceeding
one-quarter of one inch in width, or any similar implement containing an ink
that is not water soluble.
   “Graffiti” means a drawing or an inscribed message, slogan, sign, symbol or
mark of any type that is made on any public or private building, structure or
surface, without permission of the owner.
   “Graffiti implement” means an aerosol paint container, a felt-tip marker,
paint stick or graffiti stick, etching tool, or any other device capable of
scarring or leaving a visible mark on glass, metal, concrete, wood or any other
surface.
   “Paint stick” or “graffiti stick” means any device containing a solid form
of paint, chalk, wax, epoxy, or other similar substance capable of being
applied to a surface by pressure, and upon application, of leaving a mark at
least one-eighth of an inch in width.
(Ord. 1397.08.24 § 2 (part), 2012)
8.32.020 Sale and display of aerosol spray paint containers.
   A.   No person other than a parent, guardian or other adult person acting in
their place shall sell or otherwise provide aerosol spray paint containers to
any person less than eighteen years of age, and no person less than eighteen
years of age shall buy or attempt to buy any aerosol spray paint containers. An
Arizona driver's license, an identification card issued to a member of the
Armed Forces, or an identity card issued pursuant to A.R.S. § 28-3165 shall be
prima facie proof of age.
   B.   Every person who owns, manages or operates a place of business selling
aerosol spray paint containers shall store or cause such aerosol spray paint
containers to be stored either:
   1.   In the line of sight of one or more work stations that are normally
continuously occupied during business hours, or
   2.   In an area viewable by the public, but not accessible to the public, in
the regular course of business without employee assistance, pending legal sale
or disposition of such aerosol spray paint containers.
   C.   Any person who owns, manages or operates a place of business wherein
aerosol spray paint is sold shall conspicuously post:
   1.   At or near the aerosol spray paint display, in clear public view, a
sign stating: “GRAFFITI IS A CRIME. THE DEFACING OF PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY
IS PUNISHABLE BY A FINE OR IMPRISONMENT”, and
   2.   At or near the aerosol spray paint display, in clear public view, a
sign stating: “NO AEROSOL SPRAY PAINT CONTAINERS SOLD TO MINORS. SELLING SPRAY
PAINT TO OR PURCHASE OF AEROSOL SPRAY PAINT CONTAINERS BY PERSONS LESS THAN 18
YEARS OF AGE IS AGAINST THE LAW. VIOLATORS CAN BE FINED OR IMPRISONED."
   D.   Notwithstanding any other criminal penalty provided for in this
chapter, failure to comply with this section is a civil offense punishable by a
civil fine as follows:
   1.   First offense: mandatory minimum fine of not less than $100.
   2.   Second offense (within one calendar year): mandatory minimum fine of
not less than $500.
   3.   Third and subsequent offenses (within one calendar year): mandatory
minimum fine of not less than $1,000.
   E.   Notwithstanding any other civil penalty provided for by this chapter,
any violation of any prohibition or requirement imposed by this chapter is a
Class Three misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1397.08.24 § 2 (part), 2012)
8.32.030 Graffiti removal.
   No owner or occupant of a building or structure within the City shall permit
graffiti on the building or structure, or fail to eradicate graffiti from the
building or structure, within ten business days of owner/occupant's receipt of
notice of the existence of graffiti.
   A.   Upon failure of any notified person to eradicate graffiti within
compliance time set in the written notice, the City may remove, abate, enjoin
or cause removal of the violation.
   B.   The City has established the Graffiti Abatement Program to assist
members of the community who are willing to, but lack the resources to remove
graffiti from their property, or are willing to purchase supplies to accomplish
the removal of graffiti from their property. These will be reviewed on a case-
by-case basis. The City will not guarantee a paint match and will only cover
the area affected by the graffiti. This does not relieve the property owner in
away from their responsibility for compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 1397.08.24 § 2 (part), 2012)
Title 9
PUBLIC PEACE, MORALS AND WELFARE
Chapters:
9.04   Offenses By or Against Public Officers and Government
9.08   Offenses Against Public Peace and Decency
9.12   Offenses Pertaining to Property
9.16   Offenses By or Against Minors
9.20   Weapons and Explosives
9.22   Fireworks
9.24   Prohibitions Against Unreasonable or Excessive Noise
Chapter 9.04
OFFENSES BY OR AGAINST PUBLIC OFFICERS AND GOVERNMENT
Sections:
9.04.010   False reports unlawful.
9.04.010 False reports unlawful.
   It is unlawful for any person wilfully to make to the police department of
the city any false, fraudulent, misleading or unfounded report or statement, or
wilfully to misrepresent any fact for the purpose of interfering with the
operation of the police department or with the intention of misleading any
police officer.
(Prior code § 12-1-6)
Chapter 9.08
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND DECENCY
Sections:
9.08.010   Unruly gatherings.
9.08.020   Drinking malt beverages in public prohibited.
9.08.030   Prostitution unlawful.
9.08.010 Unruly gatherings.
   A.   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, unless the context
otherwise requires, the following terms or phrases are defined as:
   1.   “Owner” means any owner, as well as any agent of an owner acting on
behalf of the owner to control or otherwise regulate the occupancy or use of
the property.
   2.   “Premises” means the property that is the site of an unruly gathering.
For residential properties, “premises” means the dwelling unit or units where
the unruly gathering occurs.
   3.   “Unruly gathering” means a gathering of five (5) or more persons on any
private property, including property used to conduct business, in a manner
which causes a disturbance of the quiet enjoyment of private or public property
by any person or persons. Such disturbances include, but are not limited to,
excessive noise or traffic, obstruction of public streets by crowds or
vehicles, drinking in public, the service of alcohol to minors or consumption
of alcohol by minors, fighting, disturbing the peace, and littering.
   B.   Abatement of unruly gathering. A peace officer may abate an unruly
gathering by reasonable means including, but not limited to, citation or arrest
of violators under applicable ordinances or state statutes, and dispersal of
the persons attending the gathering.
   C.   Notice of unruly gathering; posting; removal of notice prohibited;
right to contest posting.
   1.   Contents of notice. The premises at which the unruly gathering occurs
shall be posted with a notice stating:
   a.   That an unruly gathering has occurred at the premises;
   b.   The date of the unruly gathering;
   c.   That any subsequent unruly gathering on the same premises within a one
hundred and eighty (180) day period shall result in liability for the penalties
provided in this section. Parties liable include any persons in attendance
causing the gathering to be unruly, or any owner, occupant or tenant of the
premises at which the unruly gathering occurred, or any sponsor of the event
constituting the unruly gathering; and
   d.   The right to contest the posting as provided in Subsection C.4. of this
section.
   2.   Posting requirements.
   a.   Premises shall be posted with a notice as provided in this section each
time an unruly gathering occurs. The owner, occupant or tenant of the premises,
or sponsor of the event constituting the unruly gathering, if present, shall be
consulted as to the location in which such notice is posted, in order to
achieve both the security of the notice and its prominent display.
   b.   In the event that a premises is already posted at the time of a
subsequent posting, the one hundred and eighty (180) day period from the date
of the existing posting shall be extended to one hundred and eighty (180) days
from the date of the subsequent posting. Once a premises is initially posted as
a result of an unruly gathering and the conduct causing the gathering to be
unruly has ceased, a resumption of unruly behavior on the premises resulting in
another police response shall constitute a new and separate unruly gathering
for purposes of this section.
   3.   Removal of notice prohibited. The owner, occupant, or tenant of the
posted premises shall be responsible for ensuring that the notice is not
removed, defaced, or concealed. The removal, defacement, or concealment of a
posted notice is a civil infraction carrying a penalty of a minimum, mandatory
one hundred dollar ($100) fine, in addition to any other penalties which may be
imposed under this section.
   4.   Right to contest posting.
   a.   An owner, occupant, or tenant of the posted premises may contest the
posting of the notice by filing a written petition for review with the civil
infractions division of the city court, requesting that the court determine
whether justification existed for posting of the notice under the provisions of
this section. The petition must be filed within ten (10) days after the posting
of the notice or, if the notice is given by mail, within fifteen (15) days
after the date of the mailing of the notice, and not thereafter. The court
shall set a time and date for a hearing to be held no later than fifteen (15)
days after receipt of the written petition, and shall notify both the
petitioner and the criminal division of the city attorney's office of the
hearing date. In order to avoid the possibility of conflicting rulings, if more
than one (1) petition is filed under this subsection relating to a single
posting, for example by multiple lawful occupants of the posted premises, the
court shall set only one (1) hearing and shall consolidate the petitions and
notify all petitioners of the hearing date and time. At the hearing, the city
has the burden of proving by a preponderance of evidence that the posting of
the notice was justified pursuant to the provisions of this section.
   b.   An owner of a posted premises, at any time after the posting or the
mailing of the notice, may petition the court for an order directing the
removal of the notice on the grounds that the owner has taken reasonable and
necessary actions, such as evicting a tenant responsible for the violation, to
prevent the occurrence of a subsequent unruly gathering at the posted location.
The court shall set a time and date for a hearing to be held no later than
fifteen (15) days after receipt of the petition, and shall notify both the
petitioner and the criminal division of the city attorney's office of the
hearing date. At the hearing, the petitioner has the burden of proving by a
preponderance of evidence that the petitioner has taken reasonable and
necessary actions to prevent the occurrence of a subsequent unruly gathering.
This petition process is not available to an owner who was present at the
unruly gathering and engaged in conduct causing the gathering to be unruly.
   D.   Notification of property owner.
   1.   Notification of the posting of the notice of unruly gathering shall be
mailed to any property owner at the address shown on the Pinal County Property
Tax Assessment Records. The notification shall advise the property owner that
any subsequent unruly gathering within one hundred and eighty (180) days on the
same premises shall result in liability of the property owner for all
applicable penalties as provided in this section. Notification shall be made by
certified mail. The return receipt shall be prima facie evidence of service.
   2.   Additionally, notice shall be provided to an agent of the owner who
controls or regulates the use of the premises, if known. Notice to the owner's
agent may be provided by hand delivery or by certified or regular mail sent to
the agent's last known address.
   3.   The failure to serve notice to any person described in this subsection
shall not invalidate any citation or other proceedings as to any other person
duly served, or relieve any such person from any duty imposed by this section.
   E.   Unruly gathering a civil infraction; parties responsible. An unruly
gathering is unlawful and constitutes a civil infraction. The following
parties, if found responsible for such an infraction, are liable for the
penalties provided in Subsection G.1.:
   1.   The person or persons who organized or sponsored the event constituting
the unruly gathering, including any owner or occupant in attendance at the
unruly gathering.
   2.   Any person in attendance at the unruly gathering who engaged in any
conduct causing the gathering to be unruly.
   F.   Subsequent unruly gathering a civil infraction; parties responsible.
The occurrence of an unruly gathering on the same premises more than once in
any one hundred and eighty (180) day period is a civil infraction. The
following parties, if found responsible for such an infraction, are liable for
the penalties provided in Subsection G.2.:
   1.   The owner of the property where the subsequent unruly gathering
occurred, if either:
   a.    The owner was present when the property was posted, or
   b.   Notification of posting was mailed or delivered to the owner of the
property per Subsection D, and the subsequent unruly gathering occurred not
less than two (2) weeks after the mailing of such notification.
   2.   The occupant or tenant of the property where the subsequent unruly
gathering occurred.
   3.   The person or persons who organized or sponsored the event constituting
the subsequent unruly gathering.
   4.   Any person in attendance at the subsequent unruly gathering who engaged
in any conduct causing the gathering to be unruly.
   Nothing in this section shall be construed to impose liability on the owner,
occupant, or tenant of the premises or sponsor of the event constituting the
unruly gathering, for the conduct of persons who are in attendance without the
express or implied consent of the owner, occupant, tenant, or sponsor, as long
as the owner, occupant, tenant or sponsor has taken steps reasonably necessary
to prevent a subsequent unruly gathering or to exclude the uninvited persons
from the premises, including owners who are actively attempting to evict a
tenant from the premises. Where an invited person engages in unlawful conduct
which the owner, occupant, tenant or sponsor could not reasonably foresee and
could not reasonably control without the intervention of the police, the
unlawful conduct of the person shall not be attributable to the owner,
occupant, tenant or sponsor for the purposes of determining liability under
this section.
   G.   Penalties.
   1.   Unruly gathering. The penalty for a party found responsible for an
unruly gathering, as provided in Subsection E, shall be a minimum mandatory
fine of one hundred dollars ($100).
   2.   Subsequent unruly gathering. The penalty for a party found responsible
for the occurrence of a subsequent unruly gathering, as provided in Subsection
F., shall be a minimum mandatory fine of five hundred dollars ($500) for a
first violation, a minimum mandatory fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000) for
a second violation, and minimum mandatory fines of one thousand five hundred
dollars ($1,500) for each third or subsequent violation.
   3.   Abatement. The civil fines provided herein shall be in addition to any
other penalties imposed by law for particular violations of law committed
during the course of an unruly gathering. The court shall also enter an order
of abatement against a party found responsible for a violation of this section
pursuant to Title 8 of the City of Casa Grande Municipal Code.
   H.   Enforcement. The police department is authorized to enforce the
provisions of this section, provided that enforcement is initiated by a
complaint from a member of the public. The complaining member of the public
shall not necessarily be required to appear in court before a violator may be
found responsible.
(Ord. 1397.09.05 § 2, 2009)
9.08.020 Drinking malt beverages in public prohibited.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to consume or have in his possession any
malt beverage or broken package of such malt beverage in any public park or
recreational area located within the area enclosed by a radius of one thousand
feet of the Casa Grande Union High School, except on Saturdays, Sundays and
those holidays enumerated in A.R.S. 1-301 as amended.
   B.   Violation of the provisions of subsection A of this section shall
constitute a misdemeanor to be punishable by a fine of not more than three
hundred dollars or by imprisonment in the county jail for not more than six
months, or both.
(Prior code § 12-1-27)
9.08.030 Prostitution unlawful.
   A.   Definitions. As used in this section:
   1.   “Prostitution” means engaging in or agreeing or offering to engage in
sexual conduct with another person under a fee arrangement with that person or
any other person.
   2.   “Sexual conduct” means sexual contact, sexual intercourse, oral sexual
contact or sadomasochistic abuse.
   3.   “Sexual contact” means any direct or indirect fondling or manipulating
of any part of the genitals, anus or female breast.
   4.   “Sexual intercourse” means penetration into the penis, vulva, or anus
by any part of the body or by any object.
   5.   “Oral sexual contact” means oral contact with the penis, vulva or anus.
   6.   “Sadomasochistic abuse” means flagellation or torture by or upon a
person who is nude or clad in undergarments or in revealing or bizarre costume
or the condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise physically restrained on
the part of one so clothed.
   B.   Prostitution prohibited. Prostitution shall constitute a Class I
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed two thousand five hundred
dollars, imprisonment not to exceed six months, or both.
(Ord. 1368 §§ 1 (part), 2 (part), 1990)
Chapter 9.12
OFFENSES PERTAINING TO PROPERTY
Sections:
9.12.020   Damage to railroad property unlawful.
9.12.050   Obstructing driver's view unlawful.
9.12.060   Unauthorized use of searchlights unlawful.
9.12.070   Unauthorized signs and banners unlawful.
9.12.090   Causing and permitting excessive water flow onto public streets
unlawful.
9.12.020 Damage to railroad property unlawful.
   It is unlawful for any person within the city to throw stones or other
missiles at railroad trains; or to let off the brakes of railroad cars standing
on the side tracks or tamper with the couplings of railroad cars, or to
uncouple cars standing on railroad tracks, or to uncouple the air hose of the
air brake system on railroad cars; or to remove, tamper with or break switch
lamps or other signals set to control the movements of trains, or to jump on or
off moving trains, or to throw refuse upon or in any way litter the depot or
station grounds of any railroad.
(Prior code § 12-1-2(E))
9.12.050 Obstructing driver's view unlawful.
   It is unlawful for any person to maintain or allow any tree, hedge,
billboard, or other obstructions which prevent persons driving vehicles on
public streets, alleys or highways from obtaining a clear view of traffic when
approaching an intersection or pedestrian crosswalk.
(Prior code § 12-1-16)
9.12.060 Unauthorized use of searchlights unlawful.
   It is declared to be unlawful for any person or persons to operate within
the city any incandescent or arc type searchlight, beacon light or similar
lighting device designed to and capable of projecting a beam of light into the
sky for a distance in excess of one half mile unless permission is obtained
from the council. The provisions of this section shall not apply to emergency
searchlights or beacons operated pursuant to public authority.
(Prior code § 12-1-22)
9.12.070 Unauthorized signs and banners unlawful.
   It is unlawful for any person to place any banner or sign upon any street
light pole, traffic signal pole or utility pole within the city without first
obtaining authorization from the council.
(Prior code § 12- 1-23)
9.12.090 Causing and permitting excessive water flow onto public streets
unlawful.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to wilfully or negligently permit or
cause the escape or flow of water in such quantity as to cause flooding, or to
impede vehicular or pedestrian traffic, to create a hazardous condition to such
traffic, or to cause damage to the public streets of the city.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to wilfully or negligently permit or
cause the escape or flow of irrigation water in such quantity as to cause
flooding, or impede vehicular or pedestrian traffic, to create a hazardous
condition to such traffic, or to cause damage to the public streets of the city
through failure or neglect to properly operate or maintain any irrigation
structure, delivery ditch, or waste ditch in which the person has a vested
right or interest or through the wilful or negligent failure of the person to
accept irrigation water after it has been ordered by him.
(Prior code § 12-1-25)
Chapter 9.16
OFFENSES BY OR AGAINST MINORS
Sections:
9.16.010   Definitions.
9.16.020   Curfew offenses and penalties.
9.16.030   Curfew defenses and exceptions.
9.16.040   Curfew enforcement.
9.16.050   Permitting or encouraging underage drinking.
9.16.060   Possession of graffiti implements by minors prohibited.
9.16.010 Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   "Emergency" means an unforeseen combination of circumstances or the
resulting state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not
limited to, a fire, natural disaster, or automobile accident, or any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   "Guardian" means a person who, under court order, is the guardian of the
person of a minor or a public or private agency with whom a minor has been
placed by an authorized agency or court; or at least 21 years of age and
authorized by a parent or guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
   "Insufficient control" means failure to exercise reasonable care and
diligence in the supervision of the juvenile.
   "Minor" means any person under eighteen years of age.
   "Parent" means a person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent or step-
parent of the minor.
(Ord. 1397.09.03 § 3 (part), 1997)
9.16.020 Curfew offenses and penalties.
   A.   The following constitute curfew offenses:
   1.   It is unlawful for any minor under the age of sixteen years to be in,
about, or upon any place in the city away from the minor's residence between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of the following day.
   2.   It is unlawful for any minor sixteen years of age or older and under
the age of eighteen years to be in, about, or upon any place in the city away
from the minor's residence between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 5:00 a.m. of
the following day.
   3.   It is unlawful for a parent or guardian of a minor to knowingly permit
or, by insufficient control, allow a minor to violate subsections A(1) or A(2)
above.
   4.   It is unlawful for a parent, guardian or other person having the care,
custody or supervision of the minor to fail or refuse to take custody of the
minor after such demand is made upon him by a law enforcement officer who
arrests or cites the minor for violation of subsections A(1) or A(2) above.
   B.   Each violation of the provisions of subsection A above shall constitute
a separate offense.
   C.   An adult convicted of a violation of any provision of this subsection
shall be guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor. A violation of any provision of this
subsection is designated an incorrigible offense for minors under the
jurisdiction of the juvenile court.
(Ord. 1397.09.03 § 3 (part), 1997)
9.16.030. Curfew defenses and exceptions.
   It is a defense to prosecution under Sections
9.16.020(A)(1), (A)(2), and (A)(3) of this article that the minor was:
   1.   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian.
   2.   With prior permission of the parent or guardian, in a motor vehicle
involved in interstate travel.
   3.   With prior permission of the parent or guardian, in an employment
activity or going to or returning home from an employment activity by the most
direct route without any detour or stop.
   4.   Involved in an emergency.
   5.   With prior permission of the parent or guardian, was engaged in
reasonable, legitimate, and specific business and/or activity.
   6.   With prior permission of the parent or guardian, engaged in a
reasonable and legitimate exercise of First Amendment rights protected by the
United States Constitution.
   7.   Married and 16 years of age or over, or in the military.
   8.   On the sidewalk abutting their residence or on the next door neighbor's
property with the consent of an adult member of the neighbor's household.
(Ord. 1397.09.03 § 3 (part), 1997)
9.16.040. Curfew enforcement.
   A.   Before taking any enforcement action under Section
9.16.020, above, a police officer shall attempt to ascertain the apparent
offender's age and reason for being in the place. The officer shall not issue a
citation or make an arrest under this section unless the officer reasonably
believes that an offense has occurred and that, based upon the circumstances,
the minor's responses and minor's conduct, no defense as provided in Section
9.16.030, above, is probably present.
   B.   In addition to other powers they may have, law enforcement officers who
arrest a minor for violating any of the provisions of subsections
9.16.020(A)(1) through
9.16.020(A)(2) are also hereby empowered to demand of the parent, guardian or
other person having the care, custody or supervision of the minor, that such
parent, guardian or other person come and take custody of the minor. The law
enforcement officers are also empowered to take the minor to a designated
location where arrangements can be made for a parent, guardian or other
appropriate party to take the minor into custody. Should there be a failure of
the parent, guardian or other person to take custody of such minor, the
officers may then be empowered to take the minor home.
(Ord. 1397.09.03 § 3 (part), 1997)
9.16.050 Permitting or encouraging underage drinking.
   A.   No person eighteen years or older who owns or occupies any premises
shall knowingly permit or fail to take reasonable action to prevent illegal
consumption of spirituous liquor or drugs by any person.
   B.   A person who violates this section is guilty of a Class I misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1397.09.05 § 1, 2009)
9.16.060 Possession of graffiti implements by minors prohibited.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person less than 18 years of age to
possess any graffiti implement or aerosol spray paint container, as defined by
Section
8.32.010, unless accompanied by their parent or legal guardian.
   B.   It shall be an affirmative defense to charges under this section that
the person possessing the materials was:
   1.   Within their home;
   2.   At their place of employment;
   3.   Traveling to or from school, employment or a civic duty that formally
requires the possession of such graffiti implements or aerosol spray paint
containers; or
   4.   Upon real property with permission from the owner, occupant or person
having lawful control of such property, to possess such graffiti implements or
aerosol spray paint containers.
   C.   It shall be unlawful of any person to possess any graffiti implement or
aerosol spray paint container while in or upon any public facility, park,
playground, swimming pool, recreation facility, or other public building or
structure owned or operated by the City, or while in or within fifty feet of an
underpass, bridge abutment, storm drain, or similar types of infrastructure, or
anywhere within any public area of the city limits, unless otherwise authorized
by the City.
   D.   Penalty. Any person who commits a violation of this section shall be
punished by a civil fine of not more than $1,000 for each offense.
   E.   Parental civil liability. Any act in violation of this section
committed by a minor less than eighteen years of age shall be imputed to that
minor's parent or legal guardian. A parent or legal guardian of a minor who
violates this section shall be liable for the payment of any civil fine.
   F.   Notwithstanding any other civil penalty provided for by this chapter,
any violation of any prohibition or requirement imposed by this chapter is a
Class One misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1397.08.24 § 3, 2012)
Chapter 9.20
WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES
Sections:
9.20.010   Use of explosives within city unlawful.
9.20.020   Discharge of firearms within city unlawful.
9.20.030   Exceptions.
9.20.050   Reckless handling of weapon prohibited.
9.20.060   Carrying weapon at public event.
9.20.070   Sale of weapons to minors unlawful when.
9.20.080   Forfeiture of weapon used in commission of a misdemeanor.
9.20.090   Minors prohibited from carrying or possessing firearms; exceptions;
seizure and forfeiture; penalties.
9.20.010 Use of explosives within city unlawful.
   It is unlawful for any person within the limits of the city to blast or use
powder, fireworks, nitroglycerine or other explosives without a permit from the
chief of police in writing; provided, that such permit shall specify the place
and manner of such use.
(Prior code § 12-1-5)
9.20.020 Discharge of firearms within city unlawful.
   It is unlawful for any person within the limits of the city to fire or
discharge any firearm, BB gun, air gun, pellet gun, dart gun, slingshot, gas-
operated gun or other      similar gun or instrument.
(Prior code § 12-1-26(A))
9.20.030 Exceptions.
   The prohibitions of Section
9.20.020 shall not apply to the use of any gun or instrument by:
   A.   A law enforcement officer or other duly authorized public official or
employee in the performance of any official duty;
   B.   Any person to whom a license, permit or authority is issued by the
chief of police of the city for the use of such gun or instrument for a valid
and proper purpose and for use in a manner not likely to harm any person,
animal or property;
   C.   Any person when used only for the necessary protection of property,
habitation or person in a manner authorized by the laws of the state under or
within rights guaranteed by the constitution of the state or the United States
of America.
(Prior code § 12-1-26(B))
9.20.050 Reckless handling of weapon prohibited.
   It is a misdemeanor for any person to recklessly or carelessly handle a
weapon.
(Prior code § 12- 1-26(D))
9.20.060 Carrying weapon at public event.
   Any person other than a peace officer on duty carrying a weapon, upon
entering any public place or attending a public event, may be required by the
operator of the establishment or the sponsor of the event to remove his weapon
and place it in the custody of the operator of the establishment or the sponsor
of the event.
(Prior code § 12-1-26(E))
9.20.070 Sale of weapons to minors unlawful when.
   A person who sells or gives to a minor under the age of eighteen years,
without written consent of the minor's parent or legal guardian, a weapon,
ammunition or toy pistol by which dangerous and explosive substances may be
discharged, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior code § 12-1-26(F))
9.20.080 Forfeiture of weapon used in commission of a misdemeanor.
   Every person who uses or displays in any manner a weapon in the course of
the commission of a misdemeanor which results in a conviction shall forfeit to
the city such weapon.
(Prior code § 12-1- 26(G))
9.20.090 Minors prohibited from carrying or possessing firearms; exceptions;
seizure and forfeiture; penalties.
   A.   Except as provided in subsection (B) of this section, an unemancipated
person who is under eighteen years of age and who is unaccompanied by a parent,
grandparent or guardian, or a certified hunter safety instructor or certified
firearms safety instructor acting with the consent of the unemancipated
person's parent or guardian, shall not knowingly carry or possess on his
person, within his immediate control, or in or on a means of transportation a
firearm in any place that is open to the public or on any street or highway or
on any private property except private property owned or leased by the minor or
the minor's parent, grandparent or guardian.
   B.   This section does not apply to a person who is fourteen, fifteen,
sixteen or seventeen years of age and is any of the following:
   1.   Engaged in lawful hunting or shooting events or marksmanship practice
at established ranges or other areas where the discharge of a firearm is not
prohibited;
   2.   Engaged in lawful transportation of an unloaded firearm for the purpose
of lawful hunting;
   3.   Engaged in lawful transportation of an unloaded firearm between the
hours of five a.m. and ten p.m. for the purpose of shooting events or
marksmanship practice at established ranges or other areas where the discharge
of a firearm is not prohibited.
   C.   If the minor is not exempt under subsection (B) of this section and is
in possession of a firearm, a peace officer shall seize the firearm at the time
the violation occurs.
   D.   A person who violates subsection (A) of this section is a delinquent
child and shall be subject to the following penalties:
   1.   For an offense involving an unloaded firearm, a fine of not more than
two hundred fifty dollars, and the court may order the suspension or revocation
of the person's driver's license until the person reached eighteen years of
age. If the person does not have a driver's license at the time of the
adjudication, the court may direct that the department of transportation not
issue a driver's license to the person until the person reaches eighteen years
of age.
   2.   For an offense involving a loaded firearm, a fine of not more than five
hundred dollars, and the court may order the suspension or revocation of the
person's driver's license until the person reaches eighteen years of age. If
the person does not have a driver's license at the time of the adjudication,
the court may direct that the department of transportation not issue a driver's
license to the person until the person reaches eighteen years of age.
   3.   For an offense involving a loaded or unloaded firearm, if the person
possessed the firearm while the person was the driver or an occupant of a motor
vehicle, a fine of not more than five hundred dollars and the court shall order
the suspension or revocation of the person's driver's license until the person
reaches eighteen years of age. If the person does not have a driver's license
at the time of adjudication, the court shall direct that the department of
transportation not issue a driver's license to the person until the person
reaches eighteen years of age. If the court finds that no other means of
transportation is available, the driving privileges of the child may be
restricted to travel between the child's home, school and place of employment
during specified periods of time according to the child's school and employment
schedule.
   E.   A violation of this section shall be charged, heard and disposed of
pursuant to A.R.S. Section 8-232.
   F.   Firearms seized pursuant to subsection (C) of this section shall be
held by the law enforcement agency responsible for the seizure until the
charges have been adjudicated or disposed of otherwise. Upon adjudication of a
person for a violation of this section, the court shall order the firearm
forfeited. However, the law enforcement agency shall return the firearm to the
lawful owner if the identity of that person is known.
   G.   If the court finds that the parent or guardian of a minor found
responsible for violating this section knew or reasonably should have known of
the minor's unlawful conduct and made no effort to prohibit it, the parent or
guardian is jointly and severally responsible for any fine imposed pursuant to
this section or for any civil actual damages resulting from the unlawful use of
the firearm by the minor.
   H.   This section is supplemental to any other law imposing a criminal
penalty for the use or exhibition of a deadly weapon. A minor who violates this
section may be prosecuted and convicted for any other criminal conduct
involving the use or exhibition of the deadly weapon.
(Ord. 1397.02.2, 1995)
Chapter 9.22
FIREWORKS
Sections:
9.22.010   Definitions.
9.22.020   Fireworks prohibited; exceptions.
9.22.030   Sale of fireworks.
9.22.040   Posting of signs by persons engaged in the sale of fireworks.
9.22.050   Authority to enforce violations of this article; means of
enforcement.
9.22.060   Penalties
9.22.070   Conflict with state law.
9.22.010   Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   “Consumer firework” means those fireworks defined by ARS 36-1601, as amended
from time to time.
   “Display firework” means those fireworks defined by ARS 36-1601, as amended
from time to time.
   “Fire chief” means the chief of the Casa Grande Fire Department or his/her
designee.
   “Fireworks” means any combustible or explosive composition, substance or
combination of substances, or any article prepared for the purpose of producing
a visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration or
detonation, that is a consumer firework or display firework.
   “Novelty items” means those items as listed in ARS Sections 36-1601(4)(b)
(i), (ii), and (iii), as amended from time to time.
   “Permissible consumer fireworks” means those fireworks as defined by ARS 36-
1601, as amended from time to time.
   “Person” means a corporation, company, partnership, firm, association,
society or other legal entity, as well as a natural person
   “Supervised public display” means a monitored performance of display
fireworks open to the public. (Ord. 1397.09.07 § 1, 2023: Ord. 1397.09.06 § 2
(part), 2010)
9.22.020   Fireworks prohibited; exceptions.
   A.   The use, discharge or ignition of fireworks within the City is
prohibited, except as provided for in this section:
   1.   The use, discharge or ignition of permissible consumer fireworks within
the City is permitted as follows:
   a.   Between the hours of 8:00 A.M. to 11:00 P.M. on the following dates:
   i.    June 24th through July 6th.
   ii.   December 26th through January 4th
   b.   The use of permissible fireworks is also allowed during the following
times:
   i.   Between the hours of 11:00 P.M. on December 31st through 1:00 A.M. on
January 1st; and
   ii.   Between the hours of 11:00 P.M. on July 4th through 1:00 A.M. on July
5th.
   2.   The use, discharge or ignition of fireworks is prohibited on all public
property including in all public parks and public right of way.
   3.   The use, discharge or ignition of fireworks is prohibited on the days
specified herein if a federal or state agency implements a stage one or higher
fire restriction. Any prohibition during those dates is limited to only the
dates when the stage one or higher fire restriction is in place.
   B.   Nothing in this section or article shall be construed to prohibit the
use, discharge or ignition of novelty items or the occurrence of a supervised
public display of fireworks or prohibit uses as permitted pursuant to A.R.S.
Section 36-1605(A).
   C.   Permits may be granted by the Fire Chief for conducting a properly
supervised public display of fireworks provided the following are met:
   1.   Application for a permit shall be made in writing not less than five
days prior to the date of the display.
   2.   Every display shall be handled by a competent operator, and shall be of
a character and located, discharged, and fired so that it will not be hazardous
to property or endanger any person.
   3.   Before a permit is granted, the operator, location and handling of the
display shall be approved, after investigation, by the Fire Chief.
   4.   After a permit is granted, the sale, possession, use and distribution
of fireworks for the display shall be lawful for that purpose only.
   5.   No permit is transferable or assignable.
   6.   A permit shall not be issued, and may be revoked, during time periods
of High Fire Danger warnings as determined by the Fire Chief.
   7.   The Fire Chief has authority to impose conditions on any permits
granted. (Ord. 1397.09.07 § 2, 2023: Ord. 1397.09.06 § 2 (part), 2010)
9.22.030   Sale of fireworks.
   A.    No person shall sell, or permit or authorize the sale of, any
fireworks to a person who is under sixteen years of age.
   B.   No person shall sell, or permit or authorize the sale of, permissible
consumer fireworks in conflict with state law.
   C.    The sale of fireworks within the City is prohibited consumer fireworks
is permitted on the following dates:
      1.    May 20th throught July 6th; and
      2.    Decemeber 10th through January 3rd. (Ord. 139709.07 § 9. 2023: Ord.
1397.09.06 § 2 (part), 2010)
9.22.040    Posting of signs by persons engaged in the sale of fireworks.
   A.   Prior to the sale of permissible consumer fireworks, every person
engaged in such sales shall prominently display signs in compliance with NFPA
1124 and A.R.S. Section 36-1606(B).
   B.   Signs required under this section shall be placed at each cash register
and in each area where fireworks are displayed for sale.
(Ord. 1397.09.07 § 4, 2023: Ord. 1397.09.06 § 2 (part), 2010)
9.22.050    Authority to enforce violations of this article; means of
enforcement.
   A.   The fire chief, fire marshal, a city police officer, a city code
enforcement officer, or the city attorney may issue civil complaints to enforce
violations of this article designated as civil offenses.
   B.   Any person authorized pursuant to this section to issue a civil
complaint may also issue a notice of violation specifying actions to be taken
and the time in which they are to be taken to avoid issuance of a civil or
criminal complaint.
   C.   A city police officer or the city attorney may issue criminal
complaints to enforce this article. (Ord. 1397.09.06 § 2 (part), 2010)
9.22.060   Penalties.
   A.   Discharge of permissible consumer fireworks in violation of Section
9.22.020, or failure to comply with the requirements of Section
9.22.040.A. or B., is punishable as a civil offense and punishable by a civil
fine as follows:
   1.   First offense: not less than $50 but not more $250.
   2.   Second offense within one calendar year: not less than $250, but not
more than $500.
   3.   Third and subsequent offenses within one calendar year: not less than
$500, but not more than $1,000.
   For purposes of this subsection, the date of commission of an offense shall
be used to determine whether additional offenses occurred within a given
calendar year.
   B.    A person who sells, or permits or authorizes the sale of, any
fireworks in violation of Section
9.22.030, a person who discharges display fireworks without a permit in
violation of Section
9.22.020, or a person fails to comply with any permit requirements issued by
the fire chief in violation of Section
9.22.030, shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor punishable by the maximum
punishment allowed by law. (Ord. 1397.09.06 § 2 (part), 2010)
9.22.070   Conflict with state law.
   If A.R.S. Section 36-1601, et. seq. is amended to be in conflict with the
provisions of this Chapter, this Casa Grande Municipal Code shall be read as if
amended in compliance with A.R.S. Section 36-1601, et. seq. (Ord. 1397.09.07 §
5, 2023)
Chapter 9.24
PROHIBITIONS AGAINST UNREASONABLE OR EXCESSIVE NOISE
Sections:
  
9.24.010   Unreasonable noise generally prohibited.
  
9.24.020   Loud radios, sound sets, and the like.
  
9.24.030   Vehicular noise.
  
9.24.040   Construction of buildings or other projects.
  
9.24.050   Exemptions.
  
9.24.060   Penalty for violations.
9.24.010 Unreasonable noise generally prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be made or
continued, within the limits of the city, any disturbing, excessive or
offensive noise that causes discomfort or annoyance to any reasonable person of
normal sensitiveness residing in the area. The characteristics that should be
considered in determining whether a violation of the provisions of this section
should include, but not be limited to, the following:
   1.   The level of the noise;
   2.   Whether the noise is usual or unusual;
   3.   Whether the noise is natural or unnatural;
   4.   The level of the ambient noise in the area;
   5.   The proximity of the noise to sleeping facilities;
   6.   The nature and zoning of the area from which the noise emanates, and
the area where it is received;
   7.   The time of day or night the noise occurs;
   8.   The duration of the noise; and
   9.   Whether the noise is recurrent, intermittent or constant.
(Ord. 1397.09.04 § 1 (part), 2006)
9.24.020 Loud radios, sound sets, and the like.
   A.   The use or operation of any sound production or reproduction device,
radio receiving set, musical instrument, drums, phonograph, television set,
loud speakers and sound amplifier, or other similar machine or device for the
producing or reproducing of sound in such a manner as to disturb the peace,
quiet or comfort of any reasonable person of normal sensitivity in any area of
is prohibited; provided, however, this provision shall not apply to any
participant in a parade, gathering or similar activity who has been authorized
by the city to engage in such conduct.
   B.   Any of the following shall constitute prima facie violations of this
section:
   1.   The operation of any device set forth in subsection A. hereof between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. in such a manner as to be plainly audible
at a distance of fifty feet or more from the building, structure, vehicle or
area where the source is located.
   2.   The operation of any sound amplifier, which is part of, or connected
to, any radio, stereo receiver, compact disc player or other similar device,
when operated in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of fifty
feet or more from the source, or when operated in such a manner as to cause a
person to be aware of vibration accompanying the sound at a distance of fifty
feet or more from the source.
(Ord. 1397.09.04 § 1 (part), 2006)
9.24.030 Vehicular noise.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person within any residential area of the
city to repair, rebuild or test any motor vehicle between the hours of 9:00
p.m. and 6:00 a.m. in such a manner as to create any excessive, unnecessary or
offensive noise, such that a reasonable person or normal sensitivity residing
in the area is caused discomfort or annoyance.
   B.   No person shall operate, or cause to be operated, any motor vehicle
within the city unless the exhaust system of such vehicle:
   1.   Is free from defects which may cause sound level magnification;
   2.   Is equipped with a functioning muffler;
   3.   Has not been modified in such a manner which will amplify or increase
the sound level emitted by the motor vehicle above that emitted by a muffler
originally installed on the vehicle as manufactured for initial sale.
   C.   The use of any and all exhaust brakes, engine brakes, engine retarders,
or similar devices shall be prohibited within the city; provided, however, that
it shall be an affirmative defense to a violation of this paragraph that such
device was used by the operator as a result of a bona fide emergency, and was
reasonably necessary for the protection of persons and/or property.
(Ord. 1397.09.04 § 1 (part), 2006)
9.24.040 Construction of buildings or other projects.
   A.   General Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate
equipment or perform any outside construction or repair work on buildings,
structures or projects, or to operate any pile driver, power shovel, pneumatic
hammer, derrick, power hoist or any other construction-type device, except
within the time periods specified in this section, unless an appropriate permit
authorizing different times has been obtained beforehand from the city.
   B.   Construction Start/Stop Times.
   1.   Construction in Residential Zones. From April 15 to October 15,
inclusive, all construction or repair work conducted within five hundred feet
of a residential property zone shall not begin prior to 5:00 a.m. and must stop
by 9:00 p.m. each day. From October 16 to April 14, inclusive, such work may
only be conducted between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
   2.   Other Construction in Commercial or Industrial Zones. Construction and
repair work in commercial or industrial zones (not located within five hundred
feet of a residential property zone) shall not begin prior to 5:00 a.m. and
must stop by 9:00 p.m.
   3.   Weekends and Holidays. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
section, construction or repair work shall not begin prior to 6:00 a.m. on any
Saturday, and 7:00 a.m. on any Sunday or state or federal holiday.
   4.    Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, concrete can
poured one hour before the time that general construction activities are
regularly scheduled to begin.
   C.   Permits. Construction and repair work may be conducted at different
times than otherwise permitted, if upon written application, a permit is
obtained beforehand from the city manager or his designee. The permit shall be
kept on the work site and shown to building or law enforcement officials on
request. In granting such permit, the city manager or his designee shall
consider if construction noise in the vicinity of the proposed work site would
be less objectionable at night than during the daytime because of different
population levels or different neighboring activities; if obstruction and
interference with traffic, particularly on streets of major importance, would
be less objectionable at night than during the daytime; if the kind of work to
be performed emits noises at such a low level as not to cause significant
disturbance in the vicinity of the work site; if the neighborhood of the
proposed work site is of such a character wherein sleep could be disturbed; if
great economic hardship would occur if the work was spread over a longer time;
if the work will abate or prevent hazards to life or property; if proposed
early morning or night work is in the general public interest; and, he shall
prescribe such conditions, working times, types of construction equipment to be
used, and permissible noise emissions as he deems to be required in the public
interest. No permit shall be required to perform work performed to prevent or
alleviate physical trauma or property damage threatened or caused by an
emergency, which has or may result in a disruption of service, and which is
necessary to protect the health, safety and welfare of persons or property.
   D.   Revocation of Permits. The city manager or his designee may revoke any
permit granted hereunder, upon complaint based upon evidence that the
construction activity caused significant disturbance in the vicinity of the
work site.
   E.   Notice to Stop Work. Whenever any work on a construction project is in
violation of any provision of this section, the city may, in addition to other
remedies for the violation, order the construction project stopped by notice in
writing served on any persons responsible for the project, and all persons
thereafter shall stop work on the project until authorized by the city to once
again proceed with such work.
(Ord. 3472 § 1, 2025; Ord. 1397.09.04 § 1 (part), 2006)
9.24.050 Exemptions.
   The following uses and activities shall be exempt from the provisions of
this chapter:
   1.   Noises resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle when responding
to an emergency call or acting in time of emergency;
   2.   Noises created by any city vehicle, equipment or facility while being
operated for official use;
   3.   Operation of agricultural equipment in connection with farming
operations;
   4.   Any aircraft operated in conformity with, or pursuant to, federal law,
federal air regulations or air traffic control instructions pursuant to, or
within, duly adopted federal air regulations, together with any noise created
by aircraft operated under, or pursuant to, declaration of an emergency under
federal air regulations;
   5.   Noises resulting from “emergency work,” which, for purposes of this
section, shall mean work performed to prevent or alleviate physical trauma or
property damage threatened or caused by an emergency, which has or may result
in the disruption of utility or other vital service, and which is reasonably
necessary to protect the health, safety and welfare of persons or property.
(Ord. 1397.09.04 § 1 (part), 2006)
9.24.060 Penalty for violations.
   A.   Treatment as Civil Violation. A violation of any provision of this
chapter shall be prosecuted as a civil offense, and the hearing officer shall
impose a civil sanction of not less than one hundred dollars, nor more than
three hundred dollars, for each violation.
    B.   Habitual Offender. An “habitual offender” is a person who commits a
violation of any provision of this chapter, after having previously been found
responsible for two or more violations within a twenty-four-month period,
whether by admission, by payment of the fine, by default or judgment after
hearing. For purposes of this section, the dates of calculating the twenty-
four-month period shall be the dates of commission of the offenses. Offenses
committed by habitual offenders, as defined herein, shall be treated as a Class
1 misdemeanor, punishable by a sentence of incarceration not to exceed six
months, a fine not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars (exclusive of
penalty assessments prescribed by law), or both.
   C.   Separate Offenses. Each day a violation continues or exists shall be
considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 1397.09.04 § 1 (part), 2006)
Title 10
VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
Chapters:
10.04   Administrative Provisions
10.08   Traffic Control Regulations
10.12   Stopping, Standing and Parking
10.16   Bicycles
10.20   Operation of Vehicles on Private Property
Chapter 10.04
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
Sections:
10.04.010   Police chief—Enforcement authority.
10.04.020   Police chief to keep records of traffic violations.
10.04.030   Police chief to investigate accidents.
10.04.040   Police chief to conduct accident studies when.
10.04.050   Police chief to file accident reports.
10.04.060   Police chief to submit annual traffic safety report.
10.04.070   Violation—Penalty.
10.04.075   Registered owners presumed responsible for parking and standing of
motor vehicles.
10.04.080   Procedure for civil traffic cases.
10.04.010 Police chief—Enforcement authority.
   A.   It shall be the duty of the police chief to provide for the enforcement
of the street traffic regulations of the city and all of the state vehicle laws
applicable to street traffic in the city to make arrests for traffic
violations, to investigate accidents and to assist in developing ways and means
to improve traffic conditions and to carry out all duties specially imposed
upon the police chief by this chapter.
   B.   Any peace officer of the city may be authorized by the police chief to
perform any of the duties of the police chief included in this chapter.
   C.   The police chief may appoint volunteers for the establishment of a
parking enforcement specialist program for parking for persons with physical
disabilities. Under this program, duly selected volunteers are authorized to
issue citations only to persons who violate A.R.S. § 28-884 or an ordinance
regulating parking in parking spaces designated for persons with physical
disabilities.
(Ord. 1397.10.3 § 1, 2004; prior code § 15-1-1)
10.04.020 Police chief to keep records of traffic violations.
   A.   The police chief shall keep a record of all violations of the traffic
laws of the city or of the state vehicle laws of which any person has been
charged, together with a record of the final disposition of all alleged
offenses. The record shall accumulate during at least a five-year period and
from that time on the record shall be maintained complete for at least the most
recent five-year period.
   B.   All forms for records of violations and notices shall be serially
numbered. For each month and year a written record shall be kept available to
the public showing the disposal of all such forms.
   C.   All records and reports shall be public record.
(Prior code § 15-1-2)
10.04.030 Police chief to investigate accidents.
   It shall be the duty of the police chief to investigate traffic accidents
and to arrest and assist in the prosecution of those persons charged with
violations of law causing or contributing to such accidents.
(Prior code § 15-1-3)
10.04.040 Police chief to conduct accident studies when.
   Whenever the accidents at any particular location become numerous the police
chief shall conduct studies of the accidents and determine remedial measures.
(Prior code § 15-1-4)
10.04.050 Police chief to file accident reports.
   A.   The police chief shall maintain a suitable system of filing traffic
accident reports. Accident reports or cards referring to them shall be filed
alphabetically by location.
   B.   The police chief shall receive and properly file all accident reports
made to him under state law or any law of the city, but all the accident
reports made by drivers shall be for the confidential use of the city and no
report shall be admissible in any civil or criminal proceeding other than upon
request of any person making the report or upon request of the court having
jurisdiction, to prove a compliance with the laws requiring the making of any
report.
(Prior code § 15-1-5)
10.04.060 Police chief to submit annual traffic safety report.
   The police chief shall annually prepare a traffic report which shall be
filed with the clerk. The report shall contain information on traffic matters
in the city as follows:
   A.   The number of traffic accidents, the number of persons killed, the
number of persons injured and other pertinent traffic accident data;
   B.   The number of traffic accidents investigated and other pertinent data
on the safety activities of the police chief;
   C.   The plans and recommendations of the police chief for future traffic
safety activities.
(Prior code § 15-1-6)
10.04.070 Violation—Penalty.
   A.   "Civil Traffic laws" are those laws adopted by ordinance or regulation
relating to movement and control of traffic, including the parking, standing or
stopping of a vehicle, which provides for imposition of civil sanctions upon
violation of such ordinance or regulation. Violation of any civil traffic
ordinance or regulation in this Title shall constitute a civil traffic
violation unless an ordinance or regulation otherwise prescribes.
   B.   In addition to any other penalty assessment provided in this title, the
court shall levy the penalty assessment as required by A.R.S. §§ 12-116.01 and
12-116.02.
   C.   Each day any violation of this Title continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 1397.10.1 § 1, 1998: Ord. 1368 § 2 (part), 1990: prior code § 15-1-7)
10.04.075 Registered Owners Presumed Responsible for Parking and Standing of
Motor Vehicles.
   A.   In any prosecution charging a violation of any provision of this Title
governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, the person in whose name such
vehicle is registered shall be prima facie responsible for such violation and
subject to the penalty therefor.
   B.   The provisions of subsection A of this section shall apply to those
persons in whose names such vehicle is jointly registered. The person shall be
prima facie jointly and severally responsible for such violation and subject to
penalty therefor.
(Ord. 1397.10.1 § 2 (part), 1998)
10.04.080 Procedure for Civil Traffic Cases.
   A.   The rules of procedure to be employed in determinations of whether or
not a person is responsible for an offense under this Title shall be the Rules
of Procedure in Civil Traffic Violation Cases, as enacted by the Arizona
Supreme Court, Volume 17B Arizona Revised Statutes.
   B.   The citation or civil complaint and summons may be served by any method
authorized by the Arizona Rules of Civil Procedure. If service is made by
certified mail, the return receipt shall be prima facie evidence of service.
(Ord. 1397.10.1 § 2 (part), 1998)
Chapter 10.08
TRAFFIC CONTROL REGULATIONS
Sections:
10.08.010   Authority to direct traffic.
10.08.020   Failure to comply with regulations unlawful.
10.08.030   Use of recreational devices restricted.
10.08.040   Placement and maintenance of traffic control devices—Compliance
required.
10.08.050   Authority to designate crosswalks, establish safety zones and mark
traffic lanes.
10.08.060   Authority to place turning markers—Compliance required.
10.08.070   Authority to place restricted turn signs—Compliance required.
10.08.080   Turning around restricted.
10.08.090   Authority to designate one-way streets and alleys.
10.08.100   Authority to regulate traffic at intersections.
10.08.110   Drivers to comply with all signs.
10.08.120   Processions—Permits and procedures.
10.08.130   Vehicle door obstructing traffic prohibited.
10.08.140   Boarding, alighting from vehicles in motion prohibited.
10.08.150   Reckless riding upon vehicles prohibited.
10.08.160   Parking of certain vehicles on residential streets restricted.
10.08.170   Driving trucks on residential streets restricted.
10.08.180   Jaywalking on certain street prohibited.
10.08.190   Method of parking required.
10.08.200   Blocking traffic unlawful.
10.08.210   Parking adjacent to schools restricted.
10.08.220   Authority to erect signs restricting parking.
10.08.230   Parking vehicles on sidewalks unlawful.
10.08.240   Abandoned vehicles.
10.08.300   Additional enforcement authority—Code enforcement officers
10.08.010 Authority to direct traffic.
   A.   The police chief is authorized to direct traffic by voice, hand or
signal.
   B.   Officers of the fire department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police chief in directing traffic thereat or in the
immediate vicinity.
(Prior code § 15-2-1)
10.08.020 Failure to comply with regulations unlawful.
   It is unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform any
act required by this chapter. It is unlawful for any person to wilfully fail or
refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of the police chief or of
any fire department official.
(Prior code § 15-2-2)
10.08.030 Use of recreational devices restricted.
   It is unlawful for any person upon roller skates or riding any coaster, toy
vehicle or similar device to go upon any roadway except while crossing a street
or a crosswalk, and when crossing, the person shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians.
(Prior code § 15-2-3)
10.08.040 Placement and maintenance of traffic control devices—Compliance
required.
   A.   The police chief, with the approval of the council, shall place and
maintain traffic-control devices, signs and signals when and as required under
the traffic regulations of the city to make effective the provisions of the
regulations, and may place and maintain additional traffic-control devices as
he may deem necessary to regulate traffic under the traffic laws of the city,
or under state law or to guide or warn traffic.
   B.   The driver of any vehicle shall obey instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the traffic
regulations of the city unless otherwise directed by the police chief, subject
to the exceptions granted in this chapter or by state law.
(Prior code § 15-2-4)
10.08.050 Authority to designate crosswalks, establish safety zones and mark
traffic lanes.
   The police chief is authorized, on approval by the council:
   A.   To designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon
the surface of the roadway, crosswalks or intersections where in his opinion
there is a particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and at such
other places as he may deem necessary;
   B.   To establish safety zones of the kind and character and at places as he
may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians;
   C.   To mark lanes for traffic on street pavements at such places as he may
deem advisable, consistent with the traffic laws of the city.
(Prior code § 15-2-5)
10.08.060 Authority to place turning markers—Compliance required.
   A.   The police chief is authorized to place markers, buttons or signs
within or adjacent to intersections indicating the course to be traveled by
vehicles turning at the intersections, and such course to be traveled as so
indicated may conform to or be other than as prescribed by law.
   B.   When authorized markers, buttons or other indications are placed within
an intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning
thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of such
indications.
(Prior code § 15-2-6)
10.08.070 Authority to place restricted turn signs—Compliance required.
   A.   The police chief, on approval by the council, is authorized to
determine those intersections at which drivers of vehicles shall not make a
right, left or u-turn, and shall place proper signs at such intersections. The
making of such turns may be prohibited between certain hours of any day and
permitted at other hours, in which event the same shall be plainly indicated on
the signs or such signs may be removed when such turns are permitted.
   B.   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or u-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of
any such sign.
(Prior code § 15-2-7)
10.08.080 Turning around restricted.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction upon any street in a business district and shall not
upon any other street so turn a vehicle unless such movement can be made in
safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(Prior code § 15-2-8)
10.08.090 Authority to designate one-way streets and alleys.
   A.   The council shall by resolution designate any streets or alleys which
are to be limited to one-way traffic;
   B.   When any resolution of the council designates any one-way street or
alley, the police chief shall place and maintain signs giving notice thereof,
and no such regulation shall be effective unless the signs are in place. Signs
indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every
intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(Prior code § 15-2-9)
10.08.100 Authority to regulate traffic at intersections.
   A.   The council shall by resolution designate through streets,
intersections where stops are required, and intersections where vehicles shall
yield the right-of-way.
   B.   When any resolution of the council shall designate any through street
or intersection where vehicles are to stop or yield the right-of-way, the
police chief shall erect and maintain the appropriate signs at every location
where a vehicle must stop or yield right-of-way.
(Prior code § 15-2-10)
10.08.110 Drivers to comply with all signs.
   Whenever traffic signs are erected as provided in this chapter, every driver
of a vehicle shall obey the signs unless directed to proceed by the police
chief or a traffic control signal. No driver shall drive upon or through any
private property such as an oil station, vacant lot, or similar property to
avoid disobedience to any regulation included in this chapter.
(Prior code § 15-2-11)
10.08.120 Processions—Permits and procedures.
   A.   No procession or parade, except funeral processions, shall be held
without first securing a permit from the police chief, and all such requests
for permits shall state the time, place of formation, proposed line of march,
destination and the other regulations as the police chief may set forth
therein.
   B.   A funeral procession composed of a procession of vehicles shall be
identified by the methods as may be determined and designated by the police
chief.
   C.   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a
funeral or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when the
vehicles are conspicuously designated. This provision shall not apply at
intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic control signals or the
police chief.
   D.   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to the
right-hand edge of the roadway as practical and shall follow the vehicle ahead
as close as is practical and safe.
(Prior code § 15-2-12)
10.08.130 Vehicle door obstructing traffic prohibited.
   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side adjacent to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle adjacent to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload
passengers.
(Prior code § 15-2-13)
10.08.140 Boarding, alighting from vehicles in motion prohibited.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion.
(Prior code § 15-2-14)
10.08.150 Reckless riding upon vehicles prohibited.
   No person shall ride upon any portion of a vehicle not designed or intended,
or reasonably suited for the safe use of passengers.
(Prior code § 15-2-15)
10.08.160 Parking of certain vehicles on residential streets restricted.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating
in excess of 12,000 pounds, or a tractor, semi-trailer, recreational vehicle,
bus, boat, or any trailer designed to be towed by a motor vehicle, on a street
in a residentially zoned area, with the following exceptions for such vehicles:
   A.   Vehicles providing delivery or services within a residential area may
park or stop for the limited purpose of loading or unloading, or providing the
service;
   B.   Vehicles owned by a person residing in the residential area may park or
stop the vehicle for the purpose of loading or unloading, or for a period of up
to two hours for any other purpose not otherwise prohibited by law;
   C.   Emergency vehicles, when responding to a call for service or providing
necessary emergency services; and
   D.   Vehicles specifically permitted to park pursuant to state law, if any.
(Ord. 1397.10.05 § 1, 2019; Ord. 1397.10.02 § 1, 2000; prior code § 15-2- 16)
10.08.170 Driving trucks on residential streets restricted.
   A.   No person shall drive a truck over seven thousand pounds empty weight
on a street where the council has by ordinance designated such traffic is
prohibited.
   B.   When by ordinance the council shall designate a street on which they
wish to prohibit the operation of trucks over seven thousand pounds empty
weight, the director of public works shall erect and maintain the appropriate
signs on the street.
   C.   This section shall not prohibit trucks over seven thousand pounds empty
weight from making deliveries, loading, or unloading on any city street.
   D.   Any person violating subsection A of this section, unless excepted by
subsection C, shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor.
(Prior code § 15-2-17)
10.08.180 Jaywalking on certain street prohibited.
   A.   In addition to the actions prohibited by Arizona law, it is unlawful
for a pedestrian to cross Florence Boulevard between Marshall Street and Kadota
Avenue at any location other than a marked crosswalk.
   B.   A pedestrian who violates the provisions of subsection A shall be
guilty of a petty offense punishable by a fine not to exceed three hundred
dollars.
(Ord. 1252 § 1, 1989: prior code § 12-1-29)
10.08.190 Method of parking required.
   Except as otherwise provided by resolution of the council, every vehicle
stopped or parked upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs shall be so
stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle parallel to and
within eighteen inches of the right-hand curb.
(Prior code § 15-3-1)
10.08.200 Blocking traffic unlawful.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to stop, stand, or park any motor
vehicle, or other vehicle, upon a street in the city in such a manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than twenty feet of the width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, except that a person may
stop temporarily, in the actual loading or unloading of passengers, or, when
necessary, in the observance of traffic signs or signals of the police chief.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle or other vehicle,
within an alley or entrance to a private driveway except for the loading or
unloading of materials, and not then unless the loading or unloading can be
accomplished without blocking the alley to the free movement of vehicular
traffic.
(Prior code § 15-3-2)
10.08.210 Parking adjacent to schools restricted.
   When signs are erected indicating no parking on that side of the street
adjacent to any school property, no person shall park a vehicle in any such
designated place for one hour before school opens until one hour after school
closes on any school day.
(Prior code § 15-3-3)
10.08.220 Authority to erect signs restricting parking.
   The police chief, upon approval by the council, may erect signs requiring
parking at an angle to the curb, allowing parking on the left-hand curb on one-
way streets, notifying drivers that parking is prohibited by ordinance, and
restricting parking in any way that may be necessary. When such signs are
erected, no person shall stop or stand a vehicle in disobedience to such signs.
(Prior code § 15-3-4)
10.08.230 Parking vehicles on sidewalks unlawful.
   It is unlawful for any person to park any vehicle, whether in usable
condition or not, or for an owner to permit his vehicle to be parked upon any
sidewalk in the city.
(Prior code § 15-3-5)
10.08.240 Abandoned vehicles.
   Any vehicle remaining parked upon any sidewalk of the city for more than
three days, or any disabled vehicle remaining parked upon any street of the
city for more than seven days, is declared to be an abandoned vehicle and the
police shall forthwith remove the same from the sidewalks or streets of the
city at the expense of the owner of the vehicle.
(Prior code § 15-3-6)
10.08.300 Additional enforcement authority—Code enforcement officers.
   In addition to the enforcement authority prescribed in Section
10.04.010 to the police chief, any code enforcement officer employed by the
city may enforce any section of this chapter relating to parking, blocking
traffic, and abandoned vehicles by seeking voluntary compliance, issuing
notices of violation, and issuing civil complaints.
(Ord. 1397.10.05 § 2, 2019)
Chapter 10.12
STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
Sections:
Article I. General Provisions
10.12.010   Impounding of vehicles when.
10.12.020   Release of impounded vehicle when.
10.12.025   Parking vehicles for sale prohibited.
Article II. Pedestrian Safety
  
10.12.100   Stopping in a roadway or median.
Article I. General Provisions
10.12.010 Impounding of vehicles when.
   A.   The police department may take in charge, remove and keep in custody,
under the direction of the chief of police, any unoccupied vehicle of any kind
or description found violating any of the provisions of this code, or of any of
the ordinances of the city or the laws of the state of Arizona regulating the
standing or parking of vehicles.
   B.   If the vehicle has been issued five unpaid parking tickets, the vehicle
shall be towed and impounded.
(Ord. 526.5 (part), 1988: prior code § 15-3-8)
10.12.020 Release of impounded vehicle when.
   The police department shall return to the owner of the impounded vehicle
when the owner has furnished evidence of his identity and ownership and signed
a receipt. The owner shall be requested to pay any towing and storage fee when
the payment from the owner is legally permissible. The towing and storage fee
shall be that fee set forth in the applicable current tow service contract
between the city and the towing contractor providing the tow service. The
payment of the towing and storage fee shall not release the owner or driver of
the vehicle from any other penalty imposed for the violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 526.5 (part), 1988: prior code § 15-3-9)
10.12.025 Parking vehicles for sale prohibited.
   A.   No person shall park, or permit to be parked, any motor vehicle for the
purpose of displaying such vehicle for sale upon any right of way, lot or area
within the city, whether publicly or privately owned. This section shall not
apply to:
   1.   The display of one motor vehicle for sale when the motor vehicle is
owned by the owner or resident of the property and the vehicle is not being
sold in connection with an automobile sales business; or
   2.   The display of motor vehicles for sale on the property of a state
licensed automobile sales business which is operating in conformance with all
local zoning and business permit requirements.
   B.   The display of any signs or other markings indicating that a motor
vehicle is for sale shall be prima facie evidence that the motor vehicle has
been parked, or permitted to be parked, for the purpose of displaying such
vehicle for sale.
   C.   Violation of this section shall constitute a civil traffic violation
punishable by a fine of not less than $50 or more than $250.
(Ord. 1397.10.1 § 3, 1998)
Article II. Pedestrian Safety
10.12.100   Stopping in a roadway or median.
   A.   No pedestrian may stop or remain in the portion of any roadway designed
for vehicular use or in a painted or raised traffic island or median not
specifically designated for use by pedestrians except to wait to cross the
roadway at the next pedestrian signal or, in the absence of a pedestrian
signal, when traffic has cleared or yielded.
   B.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to persons occupying a
median or roadway while conducting activities related to maintenance,
surveying, construction, landscape maintenance, landscape improvements, or
other similar activity necessary for the safe and efficient operation of the
city streets; provided that all such operations must be conducted only upon
approval of the director of public works, or his or her designee, and upon such
conditions, such as adjacent lane closures, use of appropriate safety vests or
gear, and/or other safety precautions designed to ensure the safety of
motorists and those temporarily occupying the median for these purposes.
   C.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to emergency personnel
occupying a median or roadway in response to an accident, safety hazard, or
other emergency situation. Emergency personnel temporarily occupying a median
or roadway for these purposes should take adequate precautions to help ensure
proper notification of the emergency situation if feasible and to provide such
safety measures as are appropriate and reasonably available in light of the
emergency situation presented.
   D.   A first alleged violation of subsection A of this section shall result
in a warning to the violator by law enforcement personnel. Violations of
subsection A of this section by any person previously warned by law enforcement
personnel, either verbally or in writing, shall be a Class 3 misdemeanor. (Ord.
1397.10.4 § 1, 2015)
Chapter 10.16
BICYCLES
(Repealed by 1397.10.06)
Chapter 10.20
OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
Sections:
10.20.010   Intent.
10.20.020   Permit required for use on private land—Specifications.
10.20.030   Display of permit upon request required.
10.20.040   Violation—Penalty.
10.20.010 Intent.
   It is the intent of this chapter to prevent the unauthorized use of vacant
lots or other privately- owned areas by motor vehicles which unauthorized use
results in the creation of excessive dust, noise, or other annoyances to such
an extent as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property by
the surrounding property owners.
(Prior code § 15-5-4)
10.20.020 Permit required for use on private land—Specifications.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to operate, drive or leave any motor
vehicle, motorcycle, motor scooter, minibike, trail-bike, dune buggy, jeep or
other form of transportation propelled by an internal combustion engine, upon
the private property of another without a written permit issued by the owner of
the property or the person entitled to immediate possession thereof, or the
authorized agent of either.
   B.   The permit shall specify the period for which permission is granted,
and shall set forth the name of the grantee, shall be signed by the grantor,
shall state the grantor's interest in the property and, if the grantor is not
the owner thereof, the owner's name.
(Prior code § 15-5-1)
10.20.030 Display of permit upon request required.
   Any person operating, driving or leaving a vehicle described in Section
10.20.020 on private property shall, upon request of any peace officer, display
the permit issued under terms of this article.
(Prior code § 15-5-2)
10.20.040 Violation—Penalty.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter is
guilty of a misdemeanor and each person shall be deemed guilty of a separate
offense for each day or portion thereof during which any violation of any
provision of this chapter is committed, continued or permitted, and upon
conviction, the person shall be punished by a fine of not to exceed three
hundred dollars, imprisonment for not to exceed ninety days, or both such fine
and imprisonment.
(Prior code § 15-5-3)
Title 11
(RESERVED)
Title 12
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PLACES
Chapters:
12.04   Park Use Regulations
Chapter 12.04
PARK USE REGULATIONS
Sections:
Article I. Park Operating Policy
12.04.010   Definitions.
12.04.020   Hours open.
12.04.030   Authority to close certain areas.
12.04.040   Permit required for certain activities.
12.04.050   Application for permit—Information required.
12.04.060   Standards for permit issuance.
12.04.070   Appeal procedure.
12.04.080   Permit revocation when.
Article II. Sanitation
12.04.090   Pollution of waters prohibited.
12.04.100   Dumping of refuse and trash prohibited.
12.04.110   Possession or breaking of glass alcoholic container prohibited.
12.04.120   Damaging restrooms prohibited.
12.04.125    Unattended property prohibited.
Article III. Recreational Activities
12.04.130   Bathing and swimming in designated areas only.
12.04.140   Boating in designated areas only.
12.04.150   Golfing in designated areas only.
12.04.160   Motorcycles, etc. in designated areas only.
12.04.170   Horseback riding in designated areas only.
12.04.180   Model airplanes in designated areas only.
12.04.190   Model boats in designated areas only.
12.04.200   Skateboarding, roller skating in designated areas only.
Article IV. Enforcement Authority
12.04.210   Enforcement authority.
12.04.220   Authority to eject.
12.04.230   Violation—Penalty.
Article I. Park Operating Policy
12.04.010 Definitions.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and
their derivations shall have the meaning given in this section.
   “City” means the city of Casa Grande.
   “Director” means the person immediately in charge of any park area and its
activities, and to whom all park employees of such area are responsible.
   “Park” means a park, reservation, playground, recreation center, or any
other area in the city owned or used by the city and devoted to active or
passive recreation.
(Prior code Art. 18-1)
12.04.020 Hours open.
   A.   North Mountain Park and Casa Grande Mountain Park shall be open twenty-
four hours each day.
   B.   Dave White Regional Park shall be open from dawn to eleven p.m. each
day.
   C.   All other parks shall be open from five a.m. to eleven p.m. each day.
   D.   All parks shall be closed at all times not specifically described in
subsections A, B and C of this section.
   E.   No person shall be present in any park when it is closed without the
permission of the director.
(Ord. 854.2 § 2, 1989; prior code § 18-4-1)
12.04.030 Authority to close certain areas.
   Any section or part of any park may be declared closed to the public by the
director or chief of police at any time and for any interval of time, either
temporarily or at regular and stated intervals (daily or otherwise) and either
entirely or merely to certain uses, as the director or chief of police shall
find reasonable and necessary to protect the public health or safety.
(Prior code § 18-4-2)
12.04.040 Permit required for certain activities.
   A.   A permit shall be obtained from the department director before
participating in the following activities:
   1.   The sale of food, beverages, or other items;
   2.   The amplification of music, voices, or other sounds;
   3.   The reservation of a park or a portion of a park by a group numbering
more than one hundred fifty;
   4.   Any stay in Casa Grande Mountain Park for a period in excess of twenty-
four hours;
   5.   Any stay in North Mountain Park after eleven p.m.
   6.    The possession or consumption of an alcoholic beverage in any of the
following parks: Peart, O'Neil, Elliott, Eastland, and Nutt.
   7.   Use of a ramada, without a reservation or permit therefor, for a period
exceeding two consecutive hours. For purposes of this provision, use shall be
deemed consecutive if occurring within the same six-hour period.
   B.   A reservation may be obtained from the department director by any group
of people wishing to use a portion of the park.
(Ord. 1397.20 § 1, 2025; Ord. 854.4 § 2, 1991; Ord. 854.3, 1989; Ord. 854.1 §
1, 1989; prior code § 18-4-3)
12.04.050 Application for permit—Information required.
   A person seeking issuance of a permit hereunder shall file an application
with the department director. The application shall state:
   A.   The name and address of the applicant;
   B.   The name and address of the person, persons, corporation, or
association sponsoring the activity, if any;
   C.   The day and hours for which the permit is desired;
   D.   The portion of the park for which the permit is desired;
   E.   An estimate of the anticipated attendance;
   F.   A description of the activity;
   G.   Any other information which the department director shall find
reasonable or necessary to a fair determination as to whether a permit should
be issued hereunder.
(Prior code § 18-4-4)
12.04.060 Standards for permit issuance.
   The department director shall issue guidelines which shall govern the
issuance of permits, the guidelines to be in accordance with the following
general policy:
   A.   Whether the proposed activity or use of the park will unreasonably
interfere with or detract from the general public enjoyment of the park;
   B.   Whether the proposed activity will unreasonably interfere with or
detract from the promotion of public health, welfare, safety and recreation;
   C.   Whether the proposed activity will unreasonably interfere with or
detract from the use and enjoyment of property in the general vicinity of the
park.
(Prior code § 18-4-5)
12.04.070 Appeal procedure.
   Within three working days after receipt of an application, the department
director shall grant the permit or shall apprise the applicant in writing of
the reasons for refusing a permit. Any aggrieved person shall have the right to
appeal in writing within five working days to the city council, which shall
consider the application at its next regular meeting. The council shall sustain
or overrule the department director's decision within fifteen days.
(Prior code § 18-4-6)
12.04.080 Permit revocation when.
   The director shall have the authority to revoke a permit upon a finding of
violation of any rule or ordinance, violation of any of the conditions pursuant
to which the permit was issued, or upon good cause shown.
(Prior code § 18-4-7)
Article II. Sanitation
12.04.090 Pollution of waters prohibited.
    No person in a park shall throw, discharge, or otherwise place or cause to
be placed in the waters of any fountain, pond, lake, stream, or other body of
water in or adjacent to any park, or any stream, storm sewer, or drain flowing
into such waters, any substance, matter, or thing, liquid or solid, which will
or may result in the pollution of the waters.
(Prior code § 18-2-1)
12.04.100 Dumping of refuse and trash prohibited.
   No person in a park shall bring in trash from other areas for the purpose of
deposit in the park and no person shall dump, deposit, or leave any beverage
containers, broken beverage containers, ashes, paper, boxes, cans, dirt,
rubbish, waste, garbage or refuse, or other trash. No such refuse or trash
shall be placed in any waters in or contiguous to any park, or left anywhere on
the grounds thereof, but shall be placed in the proper receptacles where these
are provided; where receptacles are not so provided, all such rubbish or waste
shall be carried away from the park by the person responsible for its presence
and properly disposed of elsewhere.
(Prior code § 18-2-2)
12.04.110 Possession or breaking of glass alcoholic container prohibited.
   It is unlawful for any person to possess a glass alcoholic beverage
container in any park. It is unlawful for any person to throw, toss or
otherwise propel, or break any glass object in a park or any street or alley
adjacent to any park.
(Prior code § 18-2-3)
12.04.120 Damaging restrooms prohibited.
   No person shall damage or wastefully or improperly use any toilet, water or
sewer facility in any park.
(Prior code § 18-2-4)
12.04.125 Unattended property prohibited.
   (A)   Except as otherwise permitted by this section, no person may leave any
personal property unattended for more than two (2) hours in any park. For
purposes of this section unattended property shall mean property where the
owner is not in the immediate vicinity of the property such that a city
employee may readily and immediately identify the owner of the property.
   (B)   In order to provide for the safe operations of parks and parks events,
the director may designate areas or times where personal property may not be
left unattended for any time period, establish limits on the amount and type of
property that may be left unattended, or establish lesser, or greater, lengths
of time that personal property may be unattended. Any such regulations shall be
posted at the park.
   (C)   In the event unattended property, regardless of how long it has been
unattended, interferes with the safe and orderly management of a park area or
is causing damage to the park, it may be impounded immediately and disposed of
in the manner set forth in subsection (D) of this Section.
   (D)   Any unattended property in violation of this Section may be removed by
the city. The city may seize and destroy any hazardous and bulky items, debris,
and other trash. Any remaining property shall be stored by the city for a total
of ten (10) calendar days. Written notice shall be left at the site where the
property was seized, or may be given directly to the owner of the property if
known, explaining where the seized property is located, how to retrieve such
property - including the cost of storage thereof, and how to contest the
destruction or other disposal of the property. If a person fails to retrieve
the abandoned property or fails to request a hearing concerning said
destruction within ten (10) days of its collection, such property shall be
destroyed at the expense of the violator or may, in the discretion of the city
manager, be otherwise disposed of by sale or donation. Any hearing so requested
shall be conducted by the city manager, or his designee, and shall be conducted
without formal rules of evidence or procedure.
(Ord. 1397.20 § 1, 2025)
Article III. Recreational Activities
12.04.130 Bathing and swimming in designated areas only.
   No person in a park shall swim, bathe, or wade in any waters or waterway in
or adjacent to any park, except in the waters and at the places as are provided
therefor, and in compliance with such regulations as are herein set forth or
may be hereafter adopted. Nor shall any person frequent any waters or places
customarily designated for the purpose of swimming or bathing or congregate
thereat when such activity is prohibited by the department director upon a
finding that such use of the water would be dangerous to public health or
safety.
(Prior code § 18-3-1)
12.04.140 Boating in designated areas only.
   No person in a park shall bring into or operate any boat, raft, or other
water craft, whether motor- powered or not, upon any waters, except at places
designated for boating by the department director. Such activity shall be in
accordance with applicable regulations as are now or may hereafter be adopted.
(Prior code § 18-3-2)
12.04.150 Golfing in designated areas only.
   No person in a park shall use any portion of a park for golfing purposes, or
make use of any golf club or golf ball in any park, except at places designated
for golfing by the department director.
(Prior code § 18-3-3)
12.04.160 Motorcycles, etc. in designated areas only.
   No person in a park shall bring into or operate any motorcycle, car, truck,
motorbike, any terrain vehicle, or bicycle, whether motor-powered or not,
except in areas and on roads or paths designated for that purpose by the
department director.
(Prior code § 18-3-4)
12.04.170 Horseback riding in designated areas only.
   No person shall bring a horse into a park, or ride a horse in any location
in a park, except on designated bridle trails. Horses shall be thoroughly
broken and properly restrained, and ridden with due care, and shall not be
allowed to graze or go unattended, nor shall they be hitched to any rock, tree,
shrub, fence, or playground equipment.
(Prior code § 18-3-5)
12.04.180 Model airplanes in designated areas only.
   No person in a park shall bring into or use any model airplane except in
areas set apart for such purposes and designated by the department director.
(Prior code § 18-3-6)
12.04.190 Model boats in designated areas only.
   No person shall operate any model boats or other miniature water craft,
whether remote controlled, motor-powered or not, upon any waters, except at
places designated for such use by the department director.
(Prior code § 18-3-7)
12.04.200 Skateboarding, roller skating in designated areas only.
   No person in a park shall bring into or use any skateboard or roller skates
except in areas set apart for such purposes and designated by the department
director.
(Prior code § 18-3-8)
Article IV. Enforcement Authority
12.04.210 Enforcement authority.
   The director, any park employee, or police shall, in connection with their
duties imposed by law, diligently enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior code § 18-5-1)
12.04.220 Authority to eject.
   The director, any park employee, or police shall have the authority to eject
from the park any person acting in violation of this chapter.
(Prior code § 18-5-2)
12.04.230 Violation—Penalty.
   Any violation of this chapter is a Class 1 misdemeanor.
(Prior code Art. 18-6)
Chapter 12.08 Camping and Use of Public Property
12.08.010   Purpose.
12.08.020   Definitions.
12.08.030   Camping and use of public property- prohibitions.
12.08.040   Camping otherwise permitted by permit.
12.08.050   Exclusions.
12.08.060   Removal of property from public areas.
12.08.070   Providing identification upon request.
12.08.080   Violation- penalty.
12.08.090   Severance clause.
12.08.010 Purpose.
   The mayor and council of the City of Casa Grande, Arizona declare that the
purpose of this section is to protect and improve the public health, preserve
the parks and other public property for the enjoyment, safety, comfort and
convenience of the public, and maintain a healthy and natural environment. The
streets and public areas within the city should be readily accessible and
available to residents and the public at large. The use of public areas for
camping purposes or storage of personal property interferes with the rights of
others to use public areas for which they were intended. Such activity can
constitute a public health and safety hazard which adversely impacts
neighborhoods and commercial areas. Nothing in this section is intended to
interfere with otherwise lawful and ordinary uses of public or private
property.
(Ord. 1397.19 § 1, 2025)
12.08.020 Definitions.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meaning given in this section:
   "Camp" or "camping" means using real property in the City of Casa Grande for
living accommodation purposes on a temporary or permanent basis, regardless of
the intent of the participants or the nature of any other activities in which
they may also be engaging, when under the circumstances it reasonably appears
that the participants are using the area for living accommodation purposes.
Living accommodation purposes includes, but is not limited to, activities such
as:
      (a)   Using a tent, shelter, trailer, camper, tarp, box, or other
structure for sleeping or to establish an area with a sense of permanence or
semi-permanence indicating a stay longer than temporary resting;
      (b)   Making preparations to sleep, which includes the laying down of
bedding for the purpose of sleeping;
      (c)   Storing personal belongings;
      (d)   Making any fire, other than a fire made in a fire pit or barbecue
pit provided by the city for such use which uses traditional fire-starting
methods and materials such, as and including wood and charcoal;
      (e)   Carrying on cooking activities, other than in a fire pit or
barbecue pit provided by the city for such use;
      (f)   Doing any digging or earth breaking.
   "Camp facilities" include, but are not limited to, tents, huts, lean to's,
tarps, cardboard boxes or structures, vehicle camping outfits, or temporary
shelter.
   "Camp paraphernalia" includes, but is not limited to, materials intended to
be used as beds or bedding, blankets, bedrolls, tarpaulins, cots, beds,
sleeping bags, hammocks or cooking facilities and similar equipment.
   "Childcare facility" has the meaning provided in A.R.S. § 36-881(3).
   "Establish" means setting up or moving equipment, supplies or materials on
to public or private property to camp or operate camp facilities.
    "Maintain" means keeping or permitting equipment, supplies or materials to
remain on public or private property in order to camp or operate camp
facilities.
   "Operate" means participating or assisting in establishing or maintaining a
camp or camp facility.
   "Public property" means any property owned or controlled by the City of Casa
Grande which includes by way of example but is not limited to any: park,
playground, splash pad, restroom, street, sidewalk, right-of-way, highway,
alley way, bike path, preserve, open space, mountain park, wash, or land
whether improved or unimproved, attraction, structure, facility, or parking
lot.
   "School" means any public, charter, or private school where children attend
classes in kindergarten programs or grades one through 12.
   "Shelter" means a facility or outdoor space, the primary purpose of which is
to provide free or low-cost temporary or transitional living accommodations or
camping to homeless persons.
   "Store "means to put aside or accumulate for use when needed, to put for
safekeeping, to place or leave in a location.
(Ord. 1397.19 § 1, 2025)
12.08.030 Camping and use of public property - prohibitions
   (A)   No person shall camp, occupy camp facilities, establish camp
facilities, maintain camp facilities, operate camp facilities, or use or store
camp paraphernalia in or on any public property within the City of Casa Grande
unless expressly designated as a permitted camp site or otherwise expressly
permitted by the city.
   (B)   No person shall camp in any area posted no-trespassing.
   (C)   No person shall camp within five hundred (500) feet of any property
boundary of a school, childcare facility, shelter, or park.
   (D)   In addition to prohibitions outlined in subsections (A) - (C) above,
camping is prohibited on private property:
      1.   Where it is conducted in such a manner as to constitute a nuisance
because of noise, inadequate sanitation, or other matters offensive to a
reasonable person.
      2.   Where the camping is of such frequency, intensity, or duration as to
constitute a use of land prohibited by any provision of the City's Zoning
Ordinance or this code.
      3.   Where prohibited under any provision of this code concerning the use
of a mobile home, a recreational vehicle, a bus, a hauler, a camping trailer,
or any other conveyances.
      4.   Where, unless authorized by the city, any fee, charge, or other
monetary consideration is collected for the privilege of camping.
      5.   In the parking lot of any religious, educational, healthcare, park,
lodging, retail, industrial, office, business, commercial, or other similar
establishment, regardless of the permission of the owner, lessee, occupant, or
person having legal control of such property, unless such property has been
specifically zoned to permit camping and has approved water and wastewater
disposal facilities and other utilities for camping purposes.
   (E)   In addition to prohibitions outlined in subsections (A)-(D) above,
camping is prohibited on public property owned by the United States Government
or the State of Arizona, where the United States or the State have not provided
facilities for camping or have elected not to permit camping.
   (F)   It is unlawful and a public nuisance for any person to wash one's body
or belongings in a fountain, splash pad, public lake, or similar facility.
(Ord. 1397.19 § 1, 2025)
12.08.040 Camping otherwise permitted by permit
   (A)   The Director of the Community Services Department may, in accordance
with the established procedures of the city or the department, issue permits or
make reservations to authorize youth organizations, schools, or similar
entities to camp or park vehicles overnight in a park or other city open space.
Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to prohibit camping or overnight
parking that is permitted by the City of Casa Grande.
   (B)   The city manager, or designee, may, in his or her discretion, issue a
permit to establish, maintain and operate a camp or a camp facility in
connection with a special event or on a temporary basis when the same is in the
best interest of the city, as determined by the city manager. A special event
is intended to include, but not be limited to, programs operated by the
departments of the city, youth or school events, marathons or other sporting
events and scouting activities. The city manager may consult with various city
departments and the public prior to issuing any temporary permit. Each
department or person consulted may provide comments regarding any health,
safety or public welfare concerns and provide recommendations pertaining to the
issuance, denial or conditioning of the permit. The city may establish a
reasonable fee, to be paid in advance by the applicant. The fee shall be
returned if the application is denied. In exercising his or her discretion to
issue a temporary permit, the city manager may consider any facts or evidence
bearing on the sanitary, health, safety and welfare conditions on or
surrounding the area or tract of land upon which the proposed temporary camp or
camp facility is to be located.
   (C)   The city manager is further empowered to ascertain that the operation
or maintenance of any camp or camp facilities to which a temporary permit shall
apply will in no way jeopardize the public health, safety or welfare and for
this purpose may make additional rules and regulations pertaining to their
establishment, operation or conduct. The city manager may also impose
conditions on the establishment, maintenance and operation of the camp or camp
facility, including, but not limited to, security, sanitation facilities, the
number of occupants, posting of bonds or deposits, insurance, quiet hours,
duration of the permit, and permitted activities on the premises. When the city
manager shall issue, or cause to be issued, any permit under the terms of
subsection (B) of this section, the same may be revoked at any time thereafter
by the city manager if the city manager becomes satisfied that the maintenance
or continuing operation of the camp or camp facilities is adverse to the public
health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 1397.19 § 1, 2025)
12.08.050 Exclusions
   Notwithstanding Section
12.08.030, it shall not be a violation under the following circumstances:
   (1)   The person has been issued a permit or has otherwise secured written
permission of the City of Casa Grande.
   (2)   Temporary structures or camps set up by a government agency or relief
workers during a disaster or emergency situation.
(Ord. 1397.19 § 1, 2025)
12.08.060 Removal of property from public areas
   (A)   Any camping equipment, camp paraphernalia, gear, personal belongings,
vehicles, or structures used by a person in violation of this Chapter shall be
removed from the public or private property within twenty-four (24) hours of
the issuance of a citation or warning. Any property remaining after twenty-four
(24) hours from the issuance of the citation or warning shall be deemed
abandoned. After twenty-four (24) hours, if the property has not been removed,
the city may seize and destroy any hazardous and bulky items, debris, and other
trash. Any remaining property shall be stored by the city for a total of ten
(10) calendar days. Written notice shall be left at the site where the property
was seized, or may be given directly to the owner of the property if known,
explaining where the seized property is located, how to retrieve such property
- including the cost of storage thereof, and how to contest the destruction or
other disposal of the property. If a person fails to retrieve the abandoned
property or fails to request a hearing concerning said destruction within ten
(10) days of its collection, such property shall be destroyed at the expense of
the violator or may, in the discretion of the city manager, be otherwise
disposed of by sale or donation. Any hearing so requested shall be conducted by
the city manager, or his designee, and shall be conducted without formal rules
of evidence or procedure.
   (B)   Any camping equipment, camp paraphernalia, gear, personal belongings,
vehicles, or structures located on public property during any hours the
property, including but not limited to, a park, playground, building, facility,
or parking lot, is closed, shall be seized by the City, and any bulky items,
debris, and other trash shall be destroyed or disposed of. Any remaining
property shall be stored and disposed of pursuant to the timing, notice, and
hearing provisions of subsection (A) above.
   (C)   Notwithstanding subsection (A) above, the city may, in its discretion,
provide a longer notice period than twenty-four (24) hours in which case
property shall not be deemed abandoned until the notice period provided has
expired. After the expiration of the notice period the city shall seize the
property and dispose of it pursuant to the provisions otherwise set forth in
subsection (A).
(Ord. 1397.19 § 1, 2025)
12.08.070 Providing identification upon request
   It is unlawful for a person, after being advised that the person's refusal
to answer is unlawful, to fail or refuse to provide either identification or
evidence of identity on request of a peace officer who has lawfully detained
the person based on reasonable suspicion to believe that the person has
committed a violation of this Chapter or any law of the state of Arizona or the
United States.
   (a)   Identification means any legally government issued document that
contains a photograph, date of birth and physical description, including but
not limited to height, weight, eye color, sex and hair color of the person
presenting the identification.
   (b)   Evidence of identity means that the person has provided the peace
officer with their true full name and date of birth upon request.
(Ord. 1397.19 § 1, 2025)
12.08.080 Violation - Penalty.
   (A)   A violation of this Chapter is a Class 3 misdemeanor.
   (B)    Each day that a violation of this Chapter continues shall constitute
a separate offense.
   (C)   In addition to or in lieu of any sentence imposed for a violation of
this section, the court may sentence a person to perform community restitution
or order a term of education or treatment consistent with A.R.S. § 13-717.
   (D)   An individual for whom probable cause exists to be charged with
violation of this article, in lieu of being issued a criminal citation may, at
the discretion and election of the citing police officer and with the consent
of the individual, be taken to a facility providing social services related to
mental health, housing, and/or substance abuse treatment.
   (E)   Nothing in this Chapter shall be read or deemed to limit the judgement
and discretion of police officers in determining, based on their training,
procedures, and the context and circumstances of a violation, whether to cite,
arrest, warn, or otherwise address alleged violations.
(Ord. 1397.19 § 1, 2025)
12.08.090 Severance clause
   The provisions of this Chapter are hereby declared to be severable, and if
any section, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter shall, for any reason,
be held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such decisions shall not affect the
validity of the remaining sections, sentences, clauses and phrases of this
chapter, but they shall remain in effect, it being the legislative intent that
this Chapter shall stand notwithstanding the validity of any part thereof.
(Ord. 1397.19 § 1, 2025)
Title 13
PUBLIC SERVICES
Chapters:
13.04   City Airports
13.08   Sewer Service System
13.12   Pretreatment Standards
13.16   Irrigation Fees and Assessments
Chapter 13.04
CITY AIRPORTS
Sections:
Article I. General Provision
13.04.010   Definitions.
13.04.020   Administration authority—Operation—City held harmless.
Article II. Property Regulations
13.04.030   City not liable.
13.04.040   Damage to airport property—Responsible party to comply with rules
for compensation.
13.04.050   Damage, injurious activities and abandonment prohibited.
13.04.060   Explosives prohibited.
13.04.070   Unauthorized aircraft or vehicles removed.
13.04.080   Authority to eject.
Article III. Aircraft Operations
13.04.090   Aircraft operations regulations.
13.04.100   Accident procedures.
Article IV. Motor Vehicles
13.04.110   General regulations.
Article V. Roads and Walks
13.04.120   Unauthorized travel unlawful.
13.04.130   Obstructions unlawful.
Article VI. Fire Hazards and Fueling Operations
13.04.140   Unauthorized fuel delivery and dispensing unlawful.
13.04.150   Flammable cleaning fluids unlawful.
13.04.160   Open flame operations unlawful.
13.04.170   Smoking prohibited.
13.04.180   Storage unlawful when fire hazard.
13.04.190   Surface areas to be kept clean.
13.04.200   Doping unlawful except under certain conditions.
13.04.210   Fueling unlawful when.
13.04.220   Compliance with International Fire Code required.
13.04.230   Authority to inspect—Compliance required.
Article VII. Tenants Regulated
13.04.240   Uses to be in conformance.
13.04.250   Trash requirements.
13.04.260   Hazardous storage unlawful.
13.04.270   Authority to inspect at any time.
13.04.280   Provisions incorporated into lease.
Article VIII. Commercial Operations
13.04.290   Definitions.
13.04.300   Operating policy.
13.04.310   Prohibited acts.
13.04.320   Appropriate allocation of ground space—Structures to comply with
building regulations.
13.04.330   Procedures for acquiring lease.
13.04.340   Reserved.
13.04.350   Reserved.
13.04.360   Insurance coverage required.
13.04.370   Rates and charges established by council.
Article IX. Offenses—Violation—Penalty.
13.04.380   Nuisances, littering, vandalism unlawful.
13.04.390   Unauthorized hunting prohibited.
13.04.400   Unauthorized solicitation and advertising unlawful.
13.04.410   Animals to be restrained.
13.04.420   Unauthorized flying of unmanned aircraft systems prohibited.
Article X. Miscellaneous
13.04.430   Council authority to establish additional standards.
13.04.440   Federal authority.
13.04.450   Violation—Penalty.
13.04.460   Conflicting regulations.
Article I. General Provisions
13.04.010 Definitions.
   All words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following meaning,
unless its context requires otherwise. All definitions contained within the
Federal Aviation Act of 1958 and all amendments thereto are incorporated
herein. All definitions shall be interpreted consistently with the Federal
Aviation Act and amendments thereto.
   “Aircraft” means a device that is used or intended to be used for flight in
the air, including helicopters and ultralight vehicles.
   “Aircraft accident or incident” means a collision or other contact between a
part of an aircraft and another aircraft, vehicle, person, stationary object or
other thing that results in bodily injury or death of any person or property
damage; or an entry into, or emerging from, an aircraft or vehicle by a person
that results in bodily injury or death of any person or property damage.
   “Airport” means all of the areas comprising the Casa Grande Municipal
Airport, as now existing or as the same may hereafter be expanded and developed
and shall include all of its facilities. “Airport” includes all airports owned
or operated by the city.
   “Airport advisory board” means the duly appointed seven-member airport
advisory board of the city.
   “Airport director” or “director” means the city manager of Casa Grande or
his/her designee.
   “Commercial activity” means the conduct of any aspect of a business or
concession on the airport for revenue.
   “City” means the city of Casa Grande.
   “Council” means the mayor and city council.
   “Field area” means that area used for aircraft taxiing, run up, take off,
landing, tie downs, loading and unloading of passengers and baggage. Field area
shall include all areas used by vehicles or pedestrians to gain access to any
of the above, and shall include all additional areas designated by the director
as a field area.
   “Fixed based operator” means a person, firm or corporation subject to the
provisions of a lease and nonexclusive license engaging in the following: the
sales, hangaring, service, renting, or leasing of new or used aircraft, parts,
aircraft accessories and hardware, custom repair, overhauling, and modification
of aircraft and/or aircraft equipment, including the conduct of charter flight
service, aerial photography and flight schools.
   “Operator” means the person, firm or corporation in possession of an
aircraft or vehicle or any person who has rented such for the purpose of
operation by him/herself or an agent.
   “Owner” means a person who holds the legal title of an aircraft or a
vehicle, or in the event that the aircraft or vehicle is the subject of a
conditional sale or lease thereof within the right of purchase upon performance
of the conditions stated in the agreement, and with the immediate right of
possession vested in the conditional vendee or lessee or anyone in possession
of an aircraft or vehicle on the airport or in the event of a mortgagor of an
aircraft or vehicle is entitled to the possession, then the conditional vendee,
lessee or mortgagor shall be deemed the owner for the purpose of these rules
and regulations.
   “Public area” means all other airport areas not field areas, except those
areas designated by a tenant or the director as nonpublic areas. The director
shall have the power to overrule a tenant's designation of an area as a
nonpublic area and may designate the area to be public.
   “Park” or “parking” means the standing of an aircraft or vehicle whether
occupied or not.
   “Pedestrian” means any person afoot.
   “Permission” or “permit” means permission granted by the airport director
unless otherwise specifically provided herein.
   “Specialized aviation services operator” means a person, firm, or
corporation subject to the provisions of a lease and nonexclusive license
engaging in some but not all of the activities of a fixed base operator.
   “Vehicle” means a device in, upon or by which a person or property is or may
be propelled, moved, or drawn upon a highway excepting a device moved by human
power. (Prior code § 22-1-1) (Ord. 1397.13.21 § 2 (part), 2025; Ord. 1397.02.07
§ 3 (part), 2001)
13.04.020 Administration authority—Operation— City held harmless.
   A.   In addition to the requirements of the Federal Aviation Administration,
the Civil Aeronautics Board, and the Arizona State Department of Aeronautics,
the director may promulgate such rules and regulations, orders and instructions
as are necessary in the administration of this chapter. The director may post
signs at the airport which state or apply the rules, regulations, orders or
instructions. Each person on the airport shall comply with all rules,
regulations and signs posted by the director pursuant to this chapter. Each
member of the staff of the director, as a representative of the director, is
empowered to require compliance with the provisions of this chapter and all
rules and regulations issued by the director.
   B.   The airport shall be conducted as a public air facility for the
promotion and accommodation of civil aviation and associated activities.
   C.   The privilege of using the airport and its facilities shall be
conditioned on the assumption by the user thereof of full responsibility and
risk for such use, and the user thereof releases and agrees to hold the city
and its officers and employees harmless, and to indemnify them from any
liability or loss resulting from the use. The owners and operators of all
aircraft based on or operating from the airport shall comply with all of the
applicable provisions of Title 28, Chapter 25, Arizona Revised Statutes. The
city reserves the right to deny use of the airport to any person who is judged
by the director to be endangering the public's safety, health or welfare.
(Prior code § 22-1-2) (Ord. 1397.02.05 § 3, 1998)
Article II. Property Regulations
13.04.030 City not liable.
   The city assumes no responsibility or liability for loss, injury or damage
to persons or property on the airport or using airport facilities, including
but not limited to fire, vandalism, wind, flood, earthquake, or collision
damage, nor does it assume any liability by reason of injury to person or
property while using the facilities of same.
(Prior code § 22-3-1)
13.04.040 Damage to airport property—Responsible party to comply with rules for
compensation.
   Any person causing, or liable for, any damage to airport property, shall be
required to pay the city on demand the full cost of repairs to the damaged
property. Any person failing to comply with these rules may be refused the use
of the airport.
(Prior code § 22-3-2)
13.04.050 Damage, injurious activities and abandonment prohibited.
   A.   No person shall destroy, injure, deface or disturb in any way any
building, sign, equipment, marker or other structure, tree, shrub, flower, lawn
or seeded area on the airport, except as authorized by the director.
   B.   No person shall conduct on or at the airport, activities that are
injurious, detrimental or damaging to the airport property business of the
airport or persons.
   C.   No person shall abandon any personal property at the airport.
(Prior code § 22-3-3)
13.04.060 Explosives prohibited.
   No person shall carry any unauthorized explosives on the airport.
(Prior code § 22-3-4)
13.04.070 Unauthorized aircraft or vehicles removed.
   Any unauthorized aircraft or vehicle which has been parked in any
unauthorized space may be removed or caused to be removed by the airport
director.
(Prior code § 22-3-5)
13.04.080 Authority to eject.
   The airport director shall have the right to cause to be ejected from the
airport premises, any vehicle or aircraft operator guilty of violation of any
provisions of this chapter. Such persons shall have the right to appeal the
ejection to the airport authority board.
(Prior code § 22-3-6) (Ord. 1397.02.07 § 3 (part), 2001)
Article III. Aircraft Operations
13.04.090 Aircraft operations regulations.
   A.   No person shall conduct any aircraft operation to, or from or over the
airport except in conformity with all Federal Aviation Administration
regulations, the applicable provisions of Arizona Revised Statutes, this
chapter, and the rules and regulations promulgated by the director.
   B.   No person shall park an aircraft on any runway or taxiway at the
airport.
   C.   No person shall park or store an aircraft at the airport except in
areas designated by the director.
   D.   Preventive maintenance work, as defined in Title 14, Part 43, Appendix
A(c), Code of Federal Regulations, may be performed at the airport tie down
areas by the owner or operator of the aircraft. Aircraft owners who possess
current mechanic ratings such as airframe and powerplant A&P and inspection
authorized (IA) may do additional work in the tie down areas subject to the
approval of the director. All other aircraft maintenance, rebuilding, and
alterations shall be performed only in those areas designated by the director.
   E.   No person shall take any aircraft from the landing area or hangers or
operate such aircraft while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or
dangerous drug.
   F.   Persons parking transient aircraft overnight on terminal transient
areas shall register their aircraft with the director as soon as possible after
landing at the airport, and pay appropriate tie down fees.
   G.   All owners and operators who desire to base their aircraft at the
airport shall register their aircraft with the director prior to beginning
operations. Any change in ownership of the aircraft shall be reported as soon
as possible.
   H.   If the director believes the conditions at the airport, or any portion
thereof, are unfavorable for aircraft operations, the director may close the
airport, or portions thereof, using applicable Federal Aviation Administration
procedures, as appropriate.
   I.   No aircraft shall be permitted to remain on any part of the landing or
take off areas for the purpose of repairs.
   J.   No person shall, without the owner's permission, interfere or tamper
with an aircraft parked or stored at the airport.
   K.   No person shall move an aircraft on the airport in a negligent or
reckless manner.
   L.   No person shall start or taxi any aircraft in a place where the air or
exhaust blast is likely to cause injuries to persons or property. If the
aircraft cannot be taxied without violating this paragraph, the operator must
have it towed to the desirable destination.
   M.   No agricultural flying may take place at the airport and no storage of
any chemicals, pesticides or herbicides will be allowed except as may otherwise
be provided in this chapter. Agricultural aircraft must be washed of all
chemicals before tying down at the airport, at a wash area approved by the
director. All such aircraft may be restricted to a specific tie down area as
designated by the director.
   N.   All air traffic should avoid flight over populated or noise sensitive
areas whenever possible, consistent with safety. (Prior code § 22-4-1) (Ord.
1397.13.21 § 1 (part), § 2 (part), 2025; Ord. 1397.02.07 § 3 (part), 2001)
13.04.100 Accident procedures.
   A.   Persons involved in aircraft accidents occurring at the airport shall
make a full report thereof to the director as soon as is possible after the
accident. The report must include all pertinent information.
   B.   Any person damaging property on the airport by means of contact with
aircraft shall report the damages to the airport office immediately and shall
be fully responsible to the city for the cost of repairs.
   C.   Every pilot and aircraft owner shall be responsible for the prompt
removal of any disabled aircraft or parts hereof, as directed by the director,
subject to accident investigation requirements. (Prior code § 22-4-2) (Ord.
1397.13.21 § 1 (part), § 2 (part), 2025)
Article IV. Motor Vehicles
13.04.110 General regulations.
   A.   No motor vehicle shall be operated on the airport if it is so
constructed, equipped or loaded as to endanger persons or property.
   B.   Each operator of a motor vehicle involved in any accident on the
airport that results in personal injury or property damage, shall make a full
report to the director as soon as possible after the accident.
   C.   No person shall operate any motor vehicle on the airport in violation
of this chapter.
   D.   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on the airport in a negligent
or reckless manner, or in excess of posted speed limits.
   E.   No person shall park or stand a motor vehicle at any place on the
airport in violation of any sign posted by the director, or within fifteen feet
of a fire hydrant, or in a manner as to block any fire gate or entrance, road
or taxiway.
   F.   The director, may remove, at the owner's expense, any motor vehicle
which is parked on the airport in violation of this chapter. The vehicle shall
be subject to a lien for the cost of removal. (Prior code § 22-5-1) (Ord.
1397.13.21 § 1 (part), § 2 (part), 2025)
Article V. Roads and Walks
13.04.120 Unauthorized travel unlawful.
   It is unlawful for any person to travel on the airport except on a road,
walk or other place provided for the kind of travel the person is doing.
(Prior code § 22-7-1)
13.04.130 Obstructions unlawful.
   It is unlawful for any person to occupy or place an object on a road or walk
on the airport in a manner that hinders or obstructs its proper use.
(Prior code § 22-7-2)
Article VI. Fire Hazards and Fueling Operations
13.04.140 Unauthorized fuel delivery and dispensing unlawful.
   It is unlawful for any person to transport or deliver aviation fuels on the
airport or dispense fuels into aircraft unless authorized to conduct such
activity, except if a person is providing fuel for his/her own aircraft.
(Prior code § 22-8-1)
13.04.150 Flammable cleaning fluids unlawful.
   It is unlawful for any person to use a flammable or volatile liquid having a
flash point of less than ninety-six degrees Fahrenheit to clean an aircraft,
aircraft engine, propeller or appliance in an aircraft hangar or similar type
building, nor within fifty feet of another aircraft, building or hangar.
(Prior code § 22-8-2)
13.04.160 Open flame operations unlawful.
   It is unlawful for any person to have in his possession an open flame,
flame-producing device or other source of ignition (except cigarette lighters
or matches for that purpose) in any hangar or similar type of building, except
in locations approved by the director.
(Prior code § 22-8-3)
13.04.170 Smoking prohibited.
   It is unlawful for any person to smoke in any areas during any times when
smoking may be a hazard.
(Prior code § 22-8-4)
13.04.180 Storage unlawful when fire hazard.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to store or stock material or equipment
on the airport in a manner that constitutes a fire hazard.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to store any combustible materials,
flammable liquids or other hazardous materials in an unsafe manner.
(Prior code § 22-8-5)
13.04.190 Surface areas to be kept clean.
   Each person to whom space on the airport is leased, assigned or made
available for use shall keep the space free and clear of oil, grease, or other
foreign materials that could cause a fire hazard or slippery or other unsafe
condition.
(Prior code § 22-8-6)
13.04.200 Doping unlawful except under certain conditions.
   It is unlawful for any person to conduct a doping process on the airport
except in a properly designed fire-resistive and ventilated room or building in
which all lights, wiring, heating, ventilating equipment, switches, outlets and
fixtures are approved for such use in hazardous areas, and in which all exit
facilities are approved and maintained for such use, or except in an open area
as designated by the director. No person shall enter or work in a dope room
while doping processes are being conducted unless wearing sparkproof shoes.
(Prior code § 22-8-7)
13.04.210 Fueling unlawful when.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to fuel or defuel an aircraft in the
airport while:
   1.   Its engine is running or is being warmed by applying external heat;
   2.   It is in a hangar or enclosed space;
   3.   Passengers are in the aircraft unless a passenger loading ramp is in
place at the cabin door, and a “no smoking” sign is displayed and the rule
enforced.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly start the engine of an
aircraft on the airport if there is any gasoline or other volatile flammable
liquid on the ground beneath it of sufficient quantity to cause a hazard.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person to operate a radio transmitter or
receiver, or to switch electrical appliances on or off, in an aircraft on the
airport while it is being fueled or defueled.
   D.   During the fueling of an aircraft on the airport, the dispensing
apparatus and the aircraft shall both be grounded in accordance with orders and
instructions of the director.
   E.   Each person engaged in fueling or defueling on the airport shall
exercise care to prevent the overflow of fuel, and shall have readily
accessible and adequate fire extinguishers.
   F.   During the fueling or defueling of13. an aircraft on the airport, no
person shall, within fifty feet of that aircraft, smoke or use any material
that is likely to cause a spark or be a source of ignition.
   G.   Each hose, funnel or appurtenance used in fueling or defueling an
aircraft on the airport shall be maintained in safe, sound and non-leaking
condition and must be properly grounded to prevent ignition of volatile
liquids.
(Prior code § 22-8-8)
13.04.220 Compliance with International Fire Code required.
   All persons shall comply with the provisions of the edition of the
International Fire Code most recently adopted, and any amendments adopted
thereto, by the City.
(Prior code § 22-8-9) (Ord. 1397.13.21 § 2 (part), 2025)
13.04.230 Authority to inspect—Compliance required.
   The city fire chief or duly authorized representatives shall inspect as
often as necessary all buildings and premises for the purpose of ascertaining
and causing to be corrected any conditions which would reasonably tend to cause
fire or contribute to its spread or endanger life or property from fire. All
orders, notices or recommendations shall be complied with by all persons
without delay.
(Prior code § 22-8-10)
Article VII. Tenants Regulated
13.04.240 Uses to be in conformance.
   No lessee or sublessee of airport property shall knowingly allow that
property to be used or occupied for any purpose prohibited by this chapter.
(Prior code § 22-9-1)
13.04.250 Trash requirements.
   A.   It is unlawful for any tenant, lessee, sublessee, concessionaires or
agent of any of them, doing business on the airport, to keep uncovered trash
containers on the sidewalk or road or in a public area of the airport.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to operate a vehicle for hauling trash,
dirt or other material on the airport unless it is built to prevent its
contents from dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise escaping.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person to spill, pour or otherwise discharge any
pesticide, herbicide or any hazardous material on any airport property.
(Prior code § 22-9-2)
13.04.260 Hazardous storage unlawful.
   It is unlawful for any person to store or stack equipment or material in a
manner to be a hazard to persons or property.
(Prior code § 22-9-3)
13.04.270 Authority to inspect at any time.
   The director shall have the right at all reasonable times to inspect all
areas under lease to or occupied by tenants.
(Prior code § 22-9-4) (Ord. 1397.13.21 § 2 (part), 2025)
13.04.280 Provisions incorporated into lease.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be deemed incorporated into every lease
and sublease and violations of the provisions of this chapter or any rule or
regulation pursuant to this chapter may result in termination of the lease or
sublease.
(Prior code § 22-9-5)
Article VIII. Commercial Operations
13.04.290 Definitions.
   For the purpose of this article, a “business or commercial activity” means
and includes, but is not limited to, the following types of activities when
done for hire, compensation or reward:
   A.   Retail sales of goods, wares, merchandise or services;
   B.   Pilot training and flight instruction;
   C.   Skydiving and skydive instruction;
   D.   Sale, rental or charter of aircraft;
   E.   Air carrier and air taxi operations;
   F.   Sale of aviation petroleum products;
   G.   Sale or service of aircraft parts, avionics, instruments or other
aircraft equipment;
   H.   Repair, maintenance, rebuilding, alteration or exchange of aircraft
engines, components or other parts;
   I.   Flying clubs. (Prior code § 22-10-3) (Ord. 1397.13.21 § 2 (part), 2025
13.04.300 Operating policy.
   As the operator and proprietor of the airport, on behalf of the citizens of
the city, it is the intent of the city council:
   A.   To operate the airport in a business-like manner with as little cost as
possible to the taxpayers through the imposition of fair and reasonable
rentals, fees and charges;
   B.   To provide for both private and commercial aviation at the airport to
the extent practicable within physical, economic and environmental constraints;
   C.   To provide for the full range of on-base aeronautical support
consistent with the need for the service and the availability of space and
physical facilities;
   D.   To protect the airport patrons and users from unsafe and inadequate
aeronautical service and to maintain and preserve all airport facilities in a
safe, secure and orderly condition;
   E.   To promote fair competition and not expose those who have lawfully
undertaken to provide commodities and services at the airport to irresponsible
or unethical business or commercial activity on the airport;
   F.   To permit and provide adequate facilities for owners of general
aviation aircraft to work on and service their own aircraft within the limits
as may be imposed by this chapter or airport regulation for purposes of safety,
preservation of airport facilities, and protection of the public interest;
   G.   To promote the utility, educational and recreational aspects of general
aviation.
(Prior code § 22-10-1) (Ord. 1397.02.07 § 3 (part), 2001)
13.04.310 Prohibited acts.
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in any business or commercial
activity on the airport without a lease approved by the council, or a sublease
from a duly authorized master lessee which is approved by the city. For the
purposes of this article a “person” means an individual or group of
individuals, including a company, partnership, corporation or other
association. This prohibition shall also apply to persons who use the airport
as a base for conducting their activity but whose office or other place of
business is not situated at the airport. This prohibition does not apply to:
   A.   Aircraft operations in which the flight originates and terminates
elsewhere and the airport is utilized as a temporary stopping place for such
purposes as landings, refueling, or other aeronautical service, or the
embarking or debarking of passengers, except in the case of charter or air taxi
airlines;
   B.   Company or corporate-owned aircraft where personnel or products are
transported free of charge, the trip being merely incidental to the company's
principal business and not, in itself, a major enterprise for profit;
   C.   Casual or isolated transactions such as sales by the owner, an owner/
pilot giving occasional flight instruction, or the like;
   D.   No lease or license for the exclusive right to provide an aeronautical
service, operation or activity on the airport shall be issued or approved.
(Prior code §§ 22-10-2, 22-10-4)
13.04.320 Appropriate allocation of ground space—Structures to comply with
building regulations.
   Leases for aeronautical and commercial activities on the airport shall be
issued and approved contingent on the lessor constructing or providing a
structure or structures on the leased property appropriate to the type of
aeronautical or commercial activity to be conducted. Ground space allocations
under lease agreements shall be made in accordance with a master plan and land
use plan adopted by the city for development of the airport. All structures
erected on the airport shall comply with all building regulations. Structural
and architectural design of all structures shall be subject to approval by the
city. Termination of a ground lease without other satisfactory arrangements
having been made with the city shall automatically revoke the permission to
conduct an aeronautical or commercial activity on the airport.
(Prior code § 22-10-5)
13.04.330 Procedures for acquiring lease.
   When a person, corporation or other entity desires to enter into a lease
with the city for land on the airport, the person must contact the director and
make the request known. The city shall negotiate with the interested party to
arrive at lease provisions and costs which reflect fair market values and
include provisions to increase lease amounts in future years based on
appropriate economic factors. Prior to entering into any lease for property at
the airport, the prospective lessee must present to the city satisfactory
evidence that it meets the minimum standards established for engaging in
business at the airport. (Prior code § 22- 10-6) (Ord. 1397.13.21 § 2 (part),
2025
13.04.340 Reserved.
13.04.350 Reserved.
13.04.360 Insurance coverage required.
   All lessees on the airport property shall obtain and maintain insurance
coverage for liability, with the city being named in the policies as an
additional insured. Amounts of coverage shall be set at appropriate levels by
the director, or as otherwise established in a lease agreement.
(Prior code § 22-10-9)
13.04.370 Rates and charges established by council.
   The rates and charges for use of the airport and its facilities, including
the rates and charges for tie-down spaces, T-hangars, shade hangars, and
storage units, shall be established in the City Consolidated Fee Schedule
pursuant to Section
1.04.170 which may be amended from time to time, and each person or
organization subject to the rates and charges therein shall promptly pay the
amounts due.
(Ord. 1397.13.21 § 2 (part), 2025; Ord. 1397.02.10 § 6, 2008; Ord. 1397.13.15 §
1 (part), 2003; Ord. 1397.13.17 § 1 (part), 2003; prior code Art. 22-11)
Article IX. Offenses—Violation—Penalty
13.04.380 Nuisances, littering, vandalism unlawful.
   A.   It is unlawful to commit any act or to omit to act in such a way as to
create a nuisance on the airport.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to dispose of garbage, papers, refuse or
other material on the airport except in receptacles provided for that purpose.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person to vandalize any public property on the
airport.
   D.   It is unlawful for any person to alter, make additions to, or erect any
building or sign or make any excavations on the airport without the permission
of the director, subject to lease provisions.
   E.   It is unlawful for any person to wilfully abandon any personal property
on the airport. A person has abandoned personal property when it remains
unattended and without written permission of the director for a period of
thirty days or more. After thirty days, the director will remove abandoned
property, excluding abandoned aircraft, at the owner’s expense. The director
will store abandoned property for thirty days after which it becomes property
of the city. Abandoned aircraft will be removed pursuant to FAA rules and
regulations and ARS 28-8243.
(Prior code § 22-6-1) (Ord. 1397.13.21 § 2 (part), 2025)
13.04.390 Unauthorized hunting prohibited.
   No person shall hunt, pursue, trap, catch injure or kill any bird or animal
on the airport without authorization of the director.
(Prior code § 22-6-2)
13.04.400 Unauthorized solicitation and advertising unlawful.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to solicit fares, alms or funds for any
purpose on the airport without permission of the director.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to post, distribute or display signs,
advertisements, circulars or other printed or written matter in a public area
of the airport except in locations designated by the director.
(Prior code § 22-6-3)
13.04.410 Animals to be restrained.
   It is unlawful for any person to enter the airport with a dog or other
domestic animal unless that animal is kept restrained by a leash or is confined
so as to be completely under control.
(Prior code § 22-6-4)
13.04.420 Unauthorized flying of unmanned aircraft systems prohibited.
   The flying of unmanned aircraft systems, which include, but are not limited
to, model aircraft and drones, within the airport is prohibited unless
authorized by the director.
(Ord. 1397.13.21 § 2 (part), 2025
Article X. Miscellaneous
13.04.430 Council authority to establish additional standards.
   The city council reserves the right to establish additional standards for
any and all categories of aeronautical related businesses or specialized
services operating on the airport property.
(Prior code § 22-13-1)
13.04.440 Federal authority.
   All lease agreements and permits shall be subordinate to the provisions of
any existing or future agreement between the city and the United States
relative to the operation and maintenance of the airport, execution of which
has been or may be required as a condition precedent to the expenditure of
federal funds for the development of the airport.
(Prior code § 22-13-2)
13.04.450 Violation—Penalty.
   It is unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions of this
chapter or any lawful rule or regulations promulgated by the city under the
authority of this chapter. Penalties for violations shall be determined under
the provisions of this code.
(Prior code Art. 22-12)
13.04.460 Conflicting regulations.
   Where there exists a conflict between any regulation or limitation
prescribed in this regulation and any other regulations applicable to the same
area, the more stringent limitations or requirements shall govern and prevail.
(Prior code § 22-13-3)
Chapter 13.08
SEWER SERVICE SYSTEM
Sections:
Article I. Definitions
13.08.010   Applicability.
13.08.020   Branch sewer.
13.08.030   Building sewer or house sewer.
13.08.040   Reserved
13.08.050   Capacity charge.
13.08.060   Combined sewer.
13.08.070   Commercial and industrial capacity charge.
13.08.080   Developer.
13.08.090   Direct sewer connection.
13.08.100   Garbage.
13.08.110   Indirect sewer connection.
13.08.120   Reserved
13.08.130   Lateral sewer.
13.08.140   Main sewer.
13.08.150   Natural outlet.
13.08.160   Reserved
13.08.170   Properly shredded garbage.
13.08.180   Public sewer.
13.08.190   Reserved.
13.08.200   Sanitary sewer.
13.08.210   Sewage.
13.08.220   Sewer connection fee.
13.08.230   Sewer department.
13.08.240   Storm sewer or storm drain.
13.08.250   Trunk sewer.
13.08.260   Unit, residential.
13.08.270   Unit, commercial.
13.08.280   Wastewater treatment plant.
13.08.290   Wastewater works.
13.08.300   Watercourse.
Article II. Sewer Service
13.08.310   Application for service required.
13.08.320   Charges, rates and payments.
13.08.330   Colorado Street trunk sewer fee.
13.08.340   Westside industrial lift- station fee.
13.08.350   Airport industrial park trunk sewer fee.
13.08.351   Mercado Outlet Mall trunk sewer fee.
13.08.352   Tanger Outlet Mall trunk sewer fee.
13.08.353   Coyote Ranch truck sewer fee.
Article III. Extension Policy
13.08.360   Construction to meet city specifications.
13.08.370   Service area.
13.08.380   Extension costs.
13.08.390   Connection charges.
13.08.400   City to have exclusive control of connections.
Article IV. Department and Consumer Responsibilities
13.08.410   Sewer department responsibilities and liabilities.
13.08.420   Consumer responsibility.
13.08.430   Unlawful interference.
13.08.440   Unsanitary disposal of excrement prohibited.
13.08.450   Private sewage systems allowed when—Compliance required.
13.08.460   Tampering with equipment prohibited.
13.08.470   Unauthorized connections prohibited.
13.08.480   Application for building connection required.
13.08.490   Inspection and approval required prior to connection.
13.08.500   Reserved
13.08.510   Violation—Penalty.
Article I. Definitions
13.08.010 Applicability.
   The terms defined in Sections
13.08.020 through
13.08.300, wherever used in this chapter, shall have the meanings respectively
ascribed to them by this article, unless from the context a different meaning
is clearly intended.
(Prior code Art. 13-1 (part))
13.08.020 Branch sewer.
   “Branch sewer” means a sewer which receives sewage from lateral sewers from
a relatively small area.
(Prior code Art. 13-1(G))
13.08.030 Building sewer or house sewer.
   “Building sewer” or “house sewer” means the extension from the building
drain to the building connection or other place of disposal.
(Prior code Art. 13-1(A))
13.08.040 Reserved
13.08.050 Capacity charge.
   “Capacity charge” means a charge related to the cost of construction of
wastewater treatment facilities needed to provide for new facilities or the
expansion of existing facilities. The funds collected shall only be utilized to
defray the cost of new treatment facilities or expansion of existing treatment
facilities. The capacity charge is normally a one-time fee charged to a unit
when it connects to the sewer system for the first time; however, in the case
of commercial and/or industrial, an expansion of existing facilities which will
increase the average daily discharge will be charged an additional capacity
charge based on the additional average daily discharge. The “capacity charge”
shall be that set forth in Section
13.08.320 of this chapter.
(Prior code Art. 13- 1(AA))
13.08.060 Combined sewer.
   “Combined sewer” means a sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
(Prior code Art. 13-1(L))
13.08.070 Commercial and industrial capacity charge.
   “Commercial and industrial capacity charge” means a charge related to the
cost of construction of wastewater treatment facilities needed to provide for a
proposed usage based on an average three hundred gallons per day (gpd) flow
discharge of wastewater per unit. Flows in excess of three hundred gpd will be
based on the minimum per unit (three hundred gpd) plus a unit cost per gallon
for the excess over 300 gpd.
(Prior code Art. 13-1(BB))
13.08.080 Developer.
   “Developer” means any person or persons engaged in the organizing and
financing of a sewage collecting system within the area tributing a trunk sewer
of the city sewer system. Such may be either a subdivider or a legally
constituted improvement district.
(Prior code Art. 13-1(W))
13.08.090 Direct sewer connection.
   “Direct sewer connection” means the service pipe connection extending from
the building drain to the collecting sewer in the street or in the public
right-of-way.
(Prior code Art. 13-1(B))
13.08.100 Garbage.
   “Garbage” means solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of
food and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
(Prior code Art. 13-1(P))
13.08.110 Indirect sewer connection.
   “Indirect sewer connection” means each junction point of any number of units
with a private collection system to include the collection system within a
building which collects individual units.
(Prior code Art. 13-1(X))
13.08.120 Reserved
13.08.130 Lateral sewer.
   “Lateral sewer” means a sewer which discharges into a branch or other sewer
and has no other common sewer tributary to it.
(Prior code Art. 13-1(F))
13.08.140 Main sewer.
   “Main sewer” means a sewer which receives sewage from one or more branch
sewers as tributaries.
(Prior code Art. 13-1(H))
13.08.150 Natural outlet.
   “Natural outlet” means any outlet into a watercourse, ditch, or other body
of surface or groundwater.
(Prior code Art. 13-1(R))
13.08.160 Reserved
13.08.170 Properly shredded garbage.
   “Properly shredded garbage” means garbage that has been shredded to such a
degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions
normally prevailing in public sewers with no particle greater than one-fourth
inch in any dimension.
(Prior code Art. 13-1(Q))
13.08.180 Public sewer.
   “Public sewer” means a sewer controlled by public authority.
(Prior code Art. 13-1(K))
13.08.190 Reserved.
13.08.200 Sanitary sewer.
   “Sanitary sewer” is a sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes
from the residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions,
together with minor quantities of groundwater, stormwater and surface water
that are not intentionally admitted. This definition shall also include, but
not be limited to, the terms “public sewer,” “sewer system,” “sewer,” and
“collection line.”
(Ord. 1397.08.26 § 2, 2017: prior code Art. 13-1(M))
13.08.210 Sewage.
   “Sewage” means a combination of the water carried wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments together with
such ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
(Prior code Art. 13-1(J))
13.08.220 Sewer connection fee.
   “Sewer connection fee” means the initial sewer connection charge as set
forth in Article II of this chapter and shall apply to all direct sewer
connections to the public sewer after the effective date of the ordinance
codified in this chapter.
(Prior code Art. 13-1(C))
13.08.230 Sewer department.
   “Sewer department” means those officers and agents of the city supervising
sewer operations for the city.
(Prior code Art. 13-1(V))
13.08.240 Storm sewer or storm drain.
   “Storm sewer” or “storm drain” includes every pipe, culvert, flume, ditch,
gutter, storm sewer, cistern, tank, drain, lake, pond, stream, ravine, gully or
other facility or natural feature, that contains, holds, transports, diverts,
channels, impounds, or drains water, into which any naturally occurring
stormwater runoff within the city may seep, percolate or flow; and every
street, sidewalk, alley, gutter, roof, parking lot, yard, field, driveway,
patio and other surface within the city across which any naturally occurring
stormwater runoff may seep, percolate or flow.
(Ord. 1397.08.26 § 3, 2017: prior code Art. 13-1(M))
13.08.250 Trunk sewer.
   “Trunk sewer” means a sewer which receives sewage from many tributary main
sewers, and serves as an outlet for a large territory.
(Prior code Art. 13-1(I))
13.08.260 Unit, residential.
   “Unit, residential” or “residential unit” means:
   A.   A single residential dwelling;
   B.   Each separate dwelling of a duplex;
   C.   Each separate dwelling of a triplex; or
   D.   Each separate condominium, townhome, cooperative apartment or other
similar housing.
(Ord. 1397.13.20 § 1, 2009; prior code Art. 13-1(Y))
13.08.270 Unit, commercial.
   “Unit, commercial” or “commercial unit” means:
   A.   Each separate apartment in an apartment court or complex;
   B.   Each separate dwelling space used for transient occupancy in hotels,
motels, RV parks, or similar establishments; or
   C.   Each separate office space, shop space, or other space for conducting
commercial activity.
   Commercial units do not include any units that would otherwise fall within
the definition of a residential unit, nor do they include industrial uses. For
purposes of establishing rates and the Consolidated Fee Schedule, the use of
the term “Multi-Family” shall include those commercial units set forth in
subsections A and B above.
(Ord. 1397.13.20 § 2, 2009; prior code Art. 13-1(Z))
13.08.280 Wastewater treatment plant.
   “Wastewater treatment plant” means any arrangement of devices and structures
used for treating sewage.
(Ord. 379.12 §§ 1 (part), 2 (part), 1987: prior code Art. 13-1(E))
13.08.290 Wastewater works.
   “Wastewater works” means all facilities for collecting, pumping, treating
and disposing of sewage.
(Ord. 379.12 §§ 1 (part), 2 (part), 1987: prior code Art. 13-1(D))
13.08.300 Watercourse.
   “Watercourse” means a channel in which a flow of water occurs either
continuously or intermittently.
(Prior code Art. 13-1(S))
Article II. Sewer Service
13.08.310 Application for service required.
   A.   No sewer connection connecting the city sanitary sewer system to any
consumer shall be made or used by any person or the city, except upon written
application furnished to the city by the owner, or his authorized agent, of the
premises to which sanitary sewer service is to be furnished. Notwithstanding
the requirement of an application to connect to the city's sanitary sewer
system, any person or entity connecting to the sanitary system without first
making application shall, in addition to being guilty of a violation of this
chapter, be responsible for all connection fees, capacity fees, and monthly
charges otherwise applicable, including late fees, retroactive to the date of
connection.
   B.   All persons, entities or other consumers connected to the sanitary
sewer system shall pay a monthly service fee, as set forth in the City
Consolidated Fee Schedule, until the service is disconnected and discontinued
by order of the sewer department or written order of the owner or his
authorized agent. In addition to the monthly charge, all consumers shall pay
the initial sewer connection fee, if any, set forth in the City Consolidated
Fee Schedule.
   C.   The initial sewer connection fee is nonrefundable.
   D.   Applications for city sanitary sewer service outside the city corporate
limits must be approved by resolution of the city council. The city council
shall have the right to consider each application presented to it separately,
with the privilege of approving only those areas that are beneficial to the
city, and that protect health, safety and welfare of its citizens. No prior
approval as herein set forth shall set a precedent for subsequent approval(s).
(Ord. 1397.13.20 § 3, 2009; Ord. 1397.13.19 § 1 (part), 2004; Ord. 1397.13.13 §
1 (part), 1999; prior code § 13-2-1)
13.08.320 Charges, rates and payments.
   A.   At the time the building permit is issued, the person applying for the
building permit shall pay initial connection charges, capacity charges, or
other similar charges as set forth in the City Consolidated Fee Schedule, as
well as the applicable development impact fee, for each sanitary sewer
connection, regardless of location.
   B.   Each user connected to the sanitary sewer system or otherwise using the
city publicly owned treatment and collection works shall be charged a monthly
charge as set forth in the City Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   C.   A commercial user shall be charged a base charge and a unit charge as
established in City Consolidated Fee Schedule. The unit charge will be based
upon the actual water consumption data from the water provider for the month
prior to the billing month, except:
   1.   Commercial customers can request a credit for irrigation usage or for
other non-sanitary sewer water consumption. A credit of up to 15% of usage,
based on the amount of usage required by landscaping, can be provided by the
finance director with appropriate proof of landscaping. A credit for alleged
non-sanitary sewer water consumption or for landscaping credits greater than
15% of usage must be accompanied by a separate meter reading (with such meter
to be installed at the customers expense) or an industry standard report,
specifying the amount of water not entering the sanitary sewer system.
   2.   The city reserves the right to investigate any commercial user
suspected of adding more to the sanitary sewer system than the water
consumption shown in the water provider reports. If the commercial user has
exceeded this figure, it shall be charged a higher fee based on the increased
flow volumes.
   3.   In the event that monthly water consumption data set forth in
subsection C.1. above is not available for use by the city for billing
purposes, the finance director is authorized to use an appropriate average of
prior monthly uses to set the unit charge for commercial use for any user for
which such billing data is not available.
   D.   Customers located outside the city limits of the City of Casa Grande
will be charged at a rate equal to one and one-half (1-1/2) times the rate
established in the City Consolidated Fee Schedule for sewer service.
   E.   Connection Charges. The connection charges, if any, set out in the City
Consolidated Fee Schedule shall be paid prior to any connection being made to
the public sewer system of the city.
   F.   The fees set forth in the City Consolidated Fee Schedule, where
applicable, shall apply to all sewer connections served by the city (including
those accounts on which the consumer has paid more than one month in advance),
and the City Consolidated Fee Schedule shall apply to all future extensions,
unless and until it is amended or changed by the city.
   1.   All fees for sewer service shall be collected by the finance director
and deposited in the city sewer revenue and reserve fund. Initial sewer
connection fees shall be paid on issuance of the sewer connection permit.
Monthly charges for each connection shall be due and payable at the conclusion
of each month of use. The finance director is authorized and directed to use
any legal means or procedures to ensure collection of sewer service fees, and
to compromise, settle or dispose of such fees in the normal course of
collection.
   2.   The finance director shall bill all known users monthly by
approximately the first day of the following month for which the sewer
collection is provided. Failure to receive an invoice shall not be a defense to
payment for any user; provided, however, that the finance director may waive
late fees or otherwise compromise amounts due and owing if the failure to
receive an invoice was due to an error on the part of the city. Failure on the
part of a person or entity to notify the city that a connection to the sanitary
sewer and the city publicly owned collection and treatment works has been made,
or failure to notify the city that appropriate monthly billings are not being
received, constitute error on the part of the consumer, and not the city, for
purposes of this subsection.
   G.   Sewer service rental shall be due and payable at the office of the
financial director when the monthly statement is rendered, and shall be
delinquent twenty calendar days thereafter. If the total bill for any such
charge is not paid within five calendar days after the date of delinquency, a
late fee of one and one- half percent of the unpaid balance (including any
unpaid late fees or similar charges) shall be charged each month of delinquency
to be collected, in addition to the amount then due.
   H.   The sewer rental fees and connection fees collected shall be used for
the operation, maintenance and replacement of the treatment and collection
works.
   I.   New industrial users that propose to introduce a significant industrial
waste into the wastewater treatment facility shall be subject to an additional
industrial cost recovery charge, established by the finance director and sewer
department as necessary to recover the costs applicable to the treatment of
such waste; provided, however, that the introduction of waste shall be subject
to the approval of the regional administrator of the Environmental Protection
Agency.
   J.   The city shall review, not less often than every two years, the
wastewater contribution of users and user classes, the total costs of operation
and maintenance of the treatment and collection works, and its approved user
charge system.
   K.   The city shall notify each user, at least annually, in conjunction with
a regular bill, of the rent and that portion of the user charges which are
attributable to wastewater treatment services.
   L.   The user sewer rental fee shall take precedence over any terms or
conditions of agreements or contracts between the city and users which address:
   1.   The reservation of capacity in the treatment works;
   2.   The charges to be collected by the city in providing wastewater
treatment services or reserving capacity.
   M.   The user charge system shall provide that each user which discharges
any toxic pollutants which cause an increase in cost of managing the effluent
or the sludge of the treatment works shall pay the increased cost.
   N.   The finance director shall have the authority to waive the late fees
charged on past due sewer bills if a user establishes a good payment record
with the city, and if the application of the fee would create an undue hardship
on the user.
   O.   The finance director may revoke the business license of any non-
residential customer that is delinquent for two billing periods.
   P.   The finance director may, as an accommodation to and upon the request
of a property owner, bill a tenant or other party for sewer charges, in which
case the property owner, as well as the user, are jointly and severally liable
for such charges. All unpaid sewer charges for a property, however, remain the
responsibility of the property owner. If a tenant does not pay a charge when
rendered, the finance director may notify the property owner of the tenant’s
nonpayment, and the property owner shall pay the amount due within seven
calendar days of the notice to the property owner. If such payment is promptly
made the finance director may waive applicable late fees.
(Ord. 1397.13.20 §§ 4, 6 (part), 2009; Ord. 1397.13.19 § 1 (part), 2004; Ord.
1397.13.13 § 1 (part), 1999; Ord. 1086.2 § 1, 1988; Ord. 379.16 §§ 1, 2, 1989;
Ord. 379.15 §§ 1, 2 1989; Ord. 379.14 §§ 1, 2, 1989; Ord. 379.13 §§ 1, 2 1988;
Ord. 379.12 §§ 1, 2, 1987; prior code § 13-2-2)
13.08.330 Colorado Street trunk sewer fee.
   A.   All connections to the Colorado Street trunk sewer, within the area
designated “Area A” on the map attached to the ordinance codified in this
section and on file in the office of the city clerk, whether direct or
indirect, will be subject to the Colorado Street trunk sewer charge.
   B.   The Colorado Street trunk sewer fee shall be paid at the time the
building permit is issued. No connection is permitted until payment has been
received by the city.
   C.   The fund collected will be placed in a restricted “major sewer line
account” and can only be used for future trunk or interceptor sewer lines
construction.
   D.   The charge will be based upon the following fee schedule which is
retroactive to August 15, 1988:
    1.   Single-family dwellings, duplexes, condominiums, townhouses: each
unit, one hundred forty-three dollars;
   2.   Multifamily apartments containing three or more units: each family
unit, ninety-eight dollars;
   3.   Motels, hotels, trailers, and/or auto courts and mobile homes: each
rental unit, trailer space or family unit, seventy-two dollars;
   4.   Business, industrial and commercial establishments, hospitals,
churches, public buildings, restaurants, bars, clubs and all other similar
buildings: each establishment, one hundred forty-three dollars;
   5.   Schools: each school, one thousand three hundred dollars;
   E.   The basic charge per unit is as established in subsection D of this
section and is based upon the Engineering News Record Construction Cost Index
of October, 1985. The Index in October, 1985, was four thousand one hundred
ninety-two dollars and eighty-two cents and will be used to calculate the
actual unit fee at the time the building permit is to be issued. The
calculation is as follows:
Base Unit Fee x (ENR Cost Index (Present)
$4192.82
   F.   The minimum charge per unit will be that established by subsection D of
this section. The “Area A” fee is in addition to any other sewer charge which
is already required by code or may be required in the future.
(Ord. 379.10.2 §§ 1, 2, 1988; Ord. 379.10.1 § 1, 1988; Ord. 379.10 § 1, 1986:
prior code § 13-2-3)
13.08.340 Westside industrial liftstation fee.
   A.   The developer of the 86.69 acres designated as “Area A” on the Westside
Industrial Liftstation Fee Map (attached to the ordinance codified in this
section and on file in the office of the city clerk) will reimburse the city
sewer fund for the westside industrial liftstation as follows: Westside
industrial liftstation fee: one thousand two hundred twenty-six dollars and
sixty-six cents per acre.
   B.   The base unit fee will be inflated automatically utilizing the
Engineering News Record Construction Cost Index at the time of development as
follows:
Base Unit Cost Acre x
       ENR Cost Index (Present)
$4,192.82
   C.   In no case will the unit fee per acre drop below the one thousand two
hundred twenty-six dollars and sixty-six cents per acre.
(Ord. 379.11 § 1, 1986: prior code § 13-2-4)
13.08.350 Airport industrial park trunk sewer fee.
   A.   All connections to the airport industrial park trunk sewer, within the
cross-hatched area on the map attached to the ordinance codified in this
section as Exhibit 1 and on file in the office of the city clerk, whether
direct or indirect, will be subject to the airport industrial park sewer
charge.
   B.   The airport industrial park trunk sewer fee shall be paid at the time
the building permit is issued. No connection is permitted until payment has
been received by the city.
   C.   The fund collected will be placed in a restricted “major sewer line
account” and can only be used for future trunk or interceptor sewer lines
construction.
   D.   The charge will be based upon the following fee schedule:
   1.   The city has constructed a sewer line to provide sewerage service to
the city airport industrial park. The line will also provide sewerage service
on either side of the line and around the industrial park. This plan provides
for reimbursement to the city for the city costs incurred in building the line;
   2.   The city expended a total of six hundred eighty-three thousand three
hundred forty dollars to construct the airport industrial park sewer line. The
cost includes construction costs, engineering costs, inspection costs, and
incidental costs. The above cost does not include the grant provided by the
U.S. Department of Commerce, Economic Development Administration or the cost
provided by Bojer/Arizona Limited Partnership to upsize the line from Rodeo
Road to Centennial Boulevard;
   3.   The service area for the airport industrial park sewer line is as shown
in the cross- hatched area on the Airport Sewer Service Map (“Exhibit 1”)
referenced in subsection A of this section. The net area comprises eleven
thousand five hundred twenty-seven acres. Computation of the net area for each
section consisted of deducting half section line rights-of-way of fifty feet
and midsection line rights-of-way of eighty feet from the gross acreage. The
acreage for the airport flight area and city golf course were also deducted.
Any development within the service area that does not receive sewerage service
from the airport industrial park sewer line shall not be charged this
development fee and likewise any development outside the service area that
receives sewerage service from the airport industrial park sewer line will be
charged this development fee;
   4.   The base reimbursement rate shall be as follows:
    Total cost $683,340.00 = $59.28/acre
    Net acreage: 11,527
   5.   Reimbursement due the city shall be adjusted to reflect the current
prevailing market rate of construction. The index rate of adjustment shall
increase according to the Engineering News Record Index using December 1989, as
the base rate. The December 1989 Index value was four thousand six hundred
seventy-nine dollars and three cents. The calculation is as follows:
Base unit fee x ENR Cost Index (Present)
$4,679.03
(Ord. 379.17 § 1, 1990: prior code § 13-2-5)
13.08.351 Mercado Outlet Mall trunk sewer fee.
   A.   All connections to the Mercado Outlet Mall trunk sewer, within the
cross-hatched area on the Mercado Sewer Trunk Service Area Map (“Attachment A”)
attached to the ordinance codified in this section and on file in the office of
the city clerk, whether direct or indirect, will be subject to the Mercado
Outlet Mall trunk sewer charge.
   B.   The Mercado Outlet Mall trunk sewer charge shall be paid at the time
the building permit is issued. No connection is permitted until payment has
been received by the city.
   C.   The funds collected will be placed in a restricted “major sewer line
account” and can only be used to install future major trunk, interceptor, or
relief services.
   D.   The charge will be based upon the following fee schedule:
   1.   The city has constructed a sewer line to provide sewerage service to
the Mercado Factory Stores Outlet Mall. The line will also provide sewerage
service on either side of the line and around the mall. This plan provides for
reimbursement to the city for the costs incurred in building the line.
   2.   A total of three hundred thirty thousand one hundred thirty-three
dollars and sixty-five cents was expended to construct the Mercado sewer line.
The cost includes construction costs, engineering costs, inspection costs, and
incidental costs.
   3.   The service area for the Mercado sewer line is as shown in the cross-
hatched area on the map (“Attachment A”) referenced in subsection A of this
section. The net area comprises 2,513.21 acres. Computation of the net area for
each section consisted of deducting half section line rights-of-way of fifty
feet and midsection line rights-of-way of eighty feet from the gross acreage.
Any development within the service area that does not receive sewerage service
from the Mercado sewer line shall not be charged this development fee and
likewise any development outside the service area that receives sewerage
service from the Mercado sewer line will be charged this development fee.
   4.   The base reimbursement rate shall be as follows:
   Total cost $330,133.65 = $131.36/acre
   Net acreage 2,513.21
   5.   Reimbursement due the city shall be adjusted to reflect the current
prevailing market rate of construction. The index rate of adjustment shall
increase according to the Engineering News Record index using August, 1991, as
the base rate. The August, 1991, Index value was four thousand eight hundred
ninety-two dollars and nine cents. The calculation is as follows:
Base unit fee x ENR Cost Index (present)
$ 4,892.09
(Ord. 1397.13.2, 1991)
13.08.352 Tanger Outlet Mall trunk sewer fee.
   A.   All connections to the Tanger Outlet Mall Trunk Sewer, within the cross
hatched area on the map entitled “Tanger Sewer Trunk Service area,” which is
attached as “Attachment A” to the ordinance codified in this section and on
file in the office of the city clerk, whether direct or indirect, will be
subject to the Tanger Outlet Mall trunk sewer charge.
   B.   The Tanger Outlet Mall trunk sewer charge shall be paid at the time the
building permit is issued. No connection is permitted until payment has been
received by the city.
   C.   The fund collected will be placed in a restricted “major sewer line
account” and can only be used to install future major trunk, interceptor or
relief services.
   D.   The charge will be based upon the following fee schedule:
   1.   The city has constructed a sewer line to provide sewerage service to
the Tanger Outlet Mall. The line will also provide sewerage service to areas
south of the Mall. This plan provides for reimbursement to the city for the
costs incurred in building the line.
   2.   A total of four hundred twenty-three thousand three hundred twenty-one
dollars and ninety-three cents was expended to construct the Tanger sewer line.
The cost includes construction costs, engineering costs, inspection costs and
incidental costs.
   3.   The service area for the Tanger sewer line as shown in the cross-
hatched area on the map of Tanger Sewer Trunk Service Area referenced in
subsection A of this section. The net area comprises two thousand one hundred
seventy-eight acres. Computation of the net area for each section consisted of
deducting half section line rights-of-way of fifty feet and midsection line
right-of-way of eighty feet from the gross acreage. Interstate highway, state
highway and railroad right-of-way has also been deducted from the gross area.
Any development within the service area that does not receive sewerage service
from the Tanger sewer line shall not be charged this development fee and
likewise any development outside the service area that receives sewerage
service from the Tanger sewer line will be charged this development fee.
   4.   The base reimbursement rate shall be as follows:
Total Cost   $423,321.93 = $194.36/acre
Net Acreage: 2,178.00
   5.   Reimbursement due the city shall be adjusted to reflect the current
prevailing market rate of construction. The index rate of adjustment shall
increase according to the Engineering News Record index using March, 1992, as
the base rate. The March, 1992, Index value was four thousand nine hundred
twenty-six dollars and fifty cents. The calculation is as follows:
Base unit fee x ENR Cost Index (present)
$4,926.50
(Ord. 1397.13.3, 1991)
13.08.353 Coyote Ranch trunk sewer fee.
   A.   All connections, whether direct or indirect, to the Coyote Ranch trunk
sewer, within the cross hatched area on the map entitled "Coyote Ranch Trunk
Sewer Service Area," which is attached as "Exhibit A" to the ordinance codified
in this section and the agreement between the city and Gardner Development
Corporation (identified in city records as C.G. Contract No. 898-1) and on file
in the office of the city clerk will be subject to the Coyote Ranch trunk sewer
fee.
   B.   The Coyote Ranch trunk sewer charge shall be paid at the time the first
building permit is issued. No sewer connection shall be permitted until payment
has been received by the city.
   C.   The fund collected will be remitted to Gardner Development Corporation
by the city.
   D.   The fee will be based upon the following schedule:
   1.   Gardner Development Corporation has constructed a sewer line to provide
sewerage service to Gardner's project known as Coyote Ranch. The line will also
provide sewerage service to areas outside of the Coyote Ranch project. This
plan provides for reimbursement to Gardner Development Corporation for the
costs incurred in building the trunk sewer line.
   2.   A total of one hundred sixty-two thousand five hundred dollars
($162,500) was expended to construct the Coyote Ranch trunk sewer line. The
cost includes construction costs, engineering costs, inspection costs and
incidental costs.
   3.   The service area for the Coyote Ranch sewer line as shown in the cross-
hatched area on the map of Coyote Ranch sewer trunk service area referenced in
subsection (A)(2), above. The area comprises three hundred (300) gross acres.
Any development within the service area that does not receive sewerage service
from the Coyote Ranch sewer line shall not be charged this fee and likewise any
development outside the service area that receives sewerage service from the
Coyote Ranch sewer line, as described in the agreement, will be charged this
fee.
   4.   The base reimbursement rate shall be as follows:
Total cost: $162,500
Gross acreage: 300
Base reimbursement rate: $162,500/300 = $541.66 per acre
   5.   Reimbursement due to Gardner Development Corporation, through the city,
shall be adjusted to reflect the current prevailing market rate of
construction. The index rate of adjustment shall increase according to the
Engineering News Record index using May 15, 1998 as the base rate. The Index
Value for that date was 5881.41 and will be used to calculate the actual area
charge at the time a construction permit is to be issued. The calculation of
the index adjusted area charge is as follows:
Area Charge = $541.66 x Eng. Cost Index*
          5881.41**
* at time of issuance of construction permit
** Eng. Cost Index May 15, 1998
(Ord. 1397.13.12, § 2, 1998)
Article III. Extension Policy
13.08.360 Construction to meet city specifications.
   A developer who wishes to extend sewer facilities must employ a civil
engineer registered in Arizona to perform the field engineering and prepare
detailed plans and specifications for the sewer extension. The final detailed
plans and specifications for the main sewer extension must be approved by the
Arizona State Department of Health and by the city before construction begins.
The design and engineering will be in accordance with the specifications of the
Arizona State Department of Health and the city prior to construction. The
construction shall meet the city's specifications, requirements and approval,
and will be subject to inspection by the city's agents during construction.
Subject to the provisions of this chapter, the city agrees to permit the
developer to connect into the city's existing trunk sewer lines and the main
sewer line to be constructed by the developer herein provided.
(Ord. 1397.13.20 § 6 (part), 2009; prior code § 13- 3-1)
13.08.370 Service area.
   The maximum area to be served by the proposed main sewer line and its
ultimate branches and laterals shall be determined by the city engineer based
on local drainage conditions. In the event that the area to be serviced by the
developer is lesser in size than the maximum area to be serviced by the
proposed main sewer line and its ultimate laterals, the aforesaid main sewer
line shall be designed, engineered and constructed to serve the maximum area
described heretofore. Should other parties in the service area desire to join
with the developer in constructing the proposed main sewer line, this agreement
will be considered as including such additional parties.
(Prior code § 13-3-2)
13.08.380 Extension costs.
   The developer shall pay the costs for utility extension using one of the
following two options:
   A.   Option I. The developer shall pay in full for the rights-of-way, the
construction and installation of the lines, pipes and mains, and all other
features of the extension.
   B.   Option II.
   1.   The construction cost of the extension shall be determined and agreed
upon prior to commencement of construction after the developer has submitted a
cost breakdown to the city engineer. The engineering costs incurred by the
developer for the preparation of plans and staking of the main sewer only, may
be included in the agreed construction cost. Costs of lateral and branch sewers
and their appurtenances will not be included in the agreed construction cost or
in the main sewer project agreement. The city reserves the right to reject the
developer's cost breakdown if they are in appreciable variance within the
city's estimate.
   2.   In the event that the area to be serviced by the developer is the
entire area described herein as the maximum service area, then the developer
will pay in full for the construction cost and will not be eligible for
repayment. In the event that the area to be serviced by the developer is lesser
in size than the maximum area to be serviced by the proposed main sewer line
and its ultimate branches and laterals, the city agrees to enter into agreement
with any party desirous of obtaining a connection to the main sewer line. Such
agreement will establish a just, equitable and reasonable charge to permit the
connection, the charge to be made on a cost per acre basis of the area to be
served, using the heretofore agreed main sewer line construction cost and
maximum service area acreage to determine the cost per acre. The amount of the
connection charge will be paid to the city who agrees to repay the amount to
the developer, the total of the repayments not to exceed that portion of the
agreed construction cost of the main sewer line allotted to the acreage outside
the service area of the developer.
   3.   In no way is any agreement to be construed as including any branch or
lateral sewer within the service area.
(Prior code § 13-3-3)
13.08.390 Connection charges.
   Any connection charge will not affect the right of the city to assess its
regular tax charges and sewage rental charges against the owners of property
within the developer's area. Building or house connection charges shall be paid
to the city at the prevailing rate and are not refundable.
(Prior code § 13- 3-4)
13.08.400 City to have exclusive control of connections.
   The city shall have exclusive control of connections to the proposed main
sewer line and upon its completion, the aforesaid main line shall become to be
the property of the city. Except as otherwise herein provided, all provisions
of this code and ordinances or amendments thereto applicable to sewer services
including charges therefore shall apply to services in the proposed area.
(Prior code § 13-3-5)
Article IV. Department and Consumer Responsibilities
13.08.410 Sewer department responsibilities and liabilities.
   A.   The sewer department shall not be responsible for the installation,
maintenance or inspection of the consumer's service line piping or apparatus or
for any defects therein.
   B.   The sewer department shall have the right to refuse service unless the
consumer's lines or piping are installed in such manner as to prevent cross
connections or backflow.
   C.   Under normal conditions, the consumer shall be notified of any
anticipated interruption of service.
   D.   The sewer department shall not be responsible for the negligence of
third persons or forces beyond the control of the sewer department resulting in
any interruption of services or damage to the property of the consumer.
   E.   The sewer department may refuse service to any prospective consumer
when the capacity of the sewer system will not permit additional loads being
placed thereon.
(Prior code § 13-4-1)
13.08.420 Consumer responsibility.
   A.   Building or house sewer connection on the consumer's premises shall be
so arranged as to provide service to one lot. If additional service is
required, it will be considered as a separate and individual account.
   B.   The consumer's house or building service line, sewer connection and
apparatus shall be installed and maintained by the consumer, at the consumer's
expense, in a safe and efficient manner and in accordance with the sewer
department's rules and regulations and in full compliance with the regulations
of the State Department of Health.
   C.   The consumer shall safeguard the sewer department's property placed on
the consumer's premises and shall permit access to it only by the authorized
representatives of the sewer department.
   D.   In the event that any loss or damage to the property of the sewer
department or any accident or injury to persons or property is caused by or
results from the negligence or wrongful act of the consumer, his agents or
employees, the cost of necessary repairs or replacements shall be paid by the
consumer to the sewer department and any liability otherwise resulting shall be
assumed by the consumer. The amount of the loss or damage or the cost of
repairs may be added to the consumer's bill and if not paid, service may be
discontinued by the sewer department.
   E.   The sewer department may discontinue its service without notice for the
following additional reasons:
   1.   To prevent fraud or abuse;
   2.   The consumer's wilful disregard of or refusal to comply with this
chapter or other rules as may be adopted by the city.
   F.   When service to a consumer shall require the laying of any city sewer
lines or the installation of any other city property on, under, across or over
the consumer's property, the consumer will grant to the city an easement,
right-of-way, or license for the installation.
   G.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made at the lateral or “Y” branch, if such lateral or “Y” branch is available
at a suitable location. Where no properly located “Y” branch is available, a
neat hole may be cut into the public sewer to receive the building or lateral
sewer, with entry in the downstream direction at an angle of about forty-five
degrees. A wye saddle shall be used for the connection and in no case shall the
pipe protrude into the main sewer. The invert of the building or lateral sewer
at the point of connection shall be at a higher elevation than the invert of
the public sewer. A smooth neat joint shall be made, and the connection made
secure and watertight by encasement in concrete. The connection to the public
sewer shall be made in the presence of the city inspector and under his
supervision and direction. Any damage to the public sewer shall be repaired at
the cost of the applicant to the satisfaction of the city inspector.
(Ord. 1397.13.20 § 6 (part), 2009; prior code § 13-4-2)
13.08.430 Unlawful interference.
   It is unlawful for any person:
   A.   To interfere in any way with the officers of the city water department,
sewer department or building inspector in the discharge of any of their duties,
either in the tapping of any sewer pipe, main or lateral belonging to the city
or in the laying or connecting of the pipe, main or lateral.
   B.   To dig up or cause to be dug up any street or alley in the city for the
purpose of connection with the sewer system of the city without first obtaining
a permit from the sewer department.
   C.   Who has a permit to dig up any portion of any street or alley of the
city for the purpose of connecting with the sewer system of the city and fail
or neglect to place the street or alley in its original condition under the
supervision of the sewer department, as required by it.
(Prior code § 13-4-3)
13.08.440 Unsanitary disposal of excrement prohibited.
   It is unlawful for a person to deposit, or permit to be deposited in an
unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the city or in any
area under the jurisdiction of the city any human or animal excrement or other
objectionable waste.
(Prior code § 13-4-4)
13.08.450 Private sewage systems allowed when—Compliance required.
   A.   Except as provided in this article, it is unlawful to construct or
maintain within the city any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other
facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   B.   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available for a distance of three
hundred feet within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city,
the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal system,
which complies with the regulations of the state department of public health.
Such private sewage disposal system shall be constructed, maintained and
operated at all times in a sanitary manner.
(Prior code § 13-4-5)
13.08.460 Tampering with equipment prohibited.
   No person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break, damage, destroy,
uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is a part of the municipal sewage works.
(Prior code § 13-4-6)
13.08.470 Unauthorized connections prohibited.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance without first
obtaining a written permit from the sewer department.
(Prior code § 13-4-7)
13.08.480 Application for building connection required.
   Upon issuance of a required permit to any person, each and every permit
issued shall be presented by the person to the sewer department and application
made for the building connection.
(Prior code § 13- 4-8)
13.08.490 Inspection and approval required prior to connection.
   No building sewer will be connected to a building connection until it has
been inspected and approved by the sewer department or building inspector.
(Prior code § 13-4-9)
13.08.500 Reserved
13.08.510 Violation—Penalty.
   A.   A violation of any provision of this chapter is a Class 2 misdemeanor,
punishable by a sentence of incarceration not to exceed four months, a fine not
to exceed seven hundred and fifty dollars (exclusive of penalty assessments
prescribed by law), or both.
   B.   Each day a violation of this chapter continues shall constitute a
separate violation.
   C.   Each violation of any requirement of this chapter constitutes a
separate offense.
(Ord. 1397.13.20 § 7, 2009)
Chapter 13.12
PRETREATMENT STANDARDS
Sections:
13.12.010   Reserved
13.12.020   Adoption by reference
13.12.030   Applicability
13.12.040   Judicial enforcement remedies
13.12.050   Collection of fees, charges and penalties
13.12.060   Remedies nonexclusive
13.12.010 Reserved
13.12.020 Adoption by reference.
   A.   That certain document known as “City of Casa Grande Pretreatment
Regulations,” three copies of which are on file in the office of the Casa
Grande city clerk, which document was made a public record by Resolution 5030
of the City of Casa Grande, Arizona, is hereby referred to, adopted and made a
part hereof as if fully set out in this section.
   B.   The pretreatment regulations contained in the public record adopted by
Casa Grande Resolution 2565, and adopted by reference through Casa Grande
Ordinance 1397.13.11 in 1998, that are in conflict with the provision of this
section, or any part of the document known as the City of Casa Grande
Pretreatment Regulations adopted herein by reference, are hereby repealed.
(Ord. 1397.08.26 § 5, 2017; Ord. 1397.13.11 §§ 1, 3, 1998)
13.12.030 Applicability.
   The Casa Grande Pretreatment Regulations dated April 3, 2017, set forth
uniform requirements for all industrial users discharging to the city's
publicly-owned treatment works (POTW), and enables the city to comply with all
applicable state and federal laws, including the Clean Water Act (33 USC §§
1251 et seq.), the General Pretreatment Regulations (40 CFR Part 403), and the
discharge permits issued by the Arizona Department of Environmental Quality.
Any industrial user, the discharge from which directly or indirectly enters the
city’s POTW from areas within or without the boundaries of the city, shall be
bound by the pretreatment regulations. The pretreatment regulations may be
enforced against any industrial user.
(Ord. 1397.08.26 § 6, 2017)
13.12.040 Judicial enforcement remedies.
   A.   Injunctive Relief. When it finds that an industrial user has violated,
or continues to violate, any provision of the pretreatment regulations adopted
in Section
13.12.020, an industrial wastewater discharge permit, or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the city may
petition a court of competent jurisdiction for the issuance of a temporary or
permanent injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific
performance of the industrial wastewater discharge permit, order, or other
requirement imposed by these pretreatment regulations on activities of an
industrial user. The city may also seek such other action as is appropriate for
legal and/or equitable relief, including a requirement for the industrial user
to conduct environmental remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall
not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against an
industrial user.
   B.   Civil Penalties.
   1.   An industrial user who has violated, or continues to violate, any
provision of these pretreatment regulations, an industrial wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement shall be liable to the city for a maximum civil penalty not to
exceed twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) per day per violation. In the
case of a monthly or other long-term average discharge limit, penalties shall
accrue for each day during the period of violation.
   2.   The city may recover reasonable attorneys’ fees, court costs, and other
expenses associated with enforcement activities, including sampling and
monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred by the city.
   3.   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against an industrial user.
   C.   Civil/Administrative Fine Pass Through. In the event that an industrial
user discharges such pollutants which cause the city to violate any condition
of its NPDES permit, and the city is fined by the EPA or the state for such
violation, then such industrial user shall be fully liable for the total amount
of the fine assessed against the city by the EPA and/or the state.
   D.   Criminal Penalties.
   1.   An industrial user that willfully, recklessly or negligently violates
any provision of these pretreatment regulations, including making false
statements, shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor,
punishable by a fine not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500)
for each violation, and/or by imprisonment up to six months. Each day any
violation of these pretreatment regulations occurs shall constitute a separate
offense.
   2.   The city may refer violations that may warrant criminal prosecution to
the U.S. Attorney General’s Office, State Attorney General, EPA Criminal
Investigation Division or other appropriate agency. This referral shall not
preclude the city from taking a parallel administrative or civil enforcement
action.
(Ord. 1397.08.26 § 7, 2017)
13.12.050 Collection of fees, charges and penalties.
   The amount of any penalty imposed by the provisions of these pretreatment
regulations, including interest and penalty assessments, shall be deemed a debt
owed to the city. An action in the name of the city may be commenced in any
court of competent jurisdiction for the amount of any penalties. If legal
action is brought by the city, or its assignee, to enforce collection of any
amount charged and due under these pretreatment regulations, any judgment
rendered in favor of the city shall include costs of suit incurred by the city,
or its assignee, including a reasonable attorney's fee.
(Ord. 1397.08.26 § 8, 2017)
13.12.060 Remedies nonexclusive.
   The remedies provided for in these pretreatment regulations are not
exclusive of any other remedies that the city may have under the provisions of
state law. The city may take any, all, or any combination of actions against a
noncompliant industrial user as specified in, but not limited to, Section 8 of
the pretreatment regulations adopted in Section
13.12.020 of this code. The city shall seek damages from any industrial user
who discharges, or causes to be discharged, to the POTW any pollutant that
causes damage or detrimental effects on the POTW, or otherwise causes the city
to expend resources to respond to such discharge.
(Ord. 1397.08.26 § 9, 2017)
Chapter 13.16
IRRIGATION FEES AND ASSESSMENTS
Sections:
13.16.010   City offers irrigation service.
13.16.020   Fees for service.
13.16.030   Fee assessment.
13.16.040   Billing procedure.
13.16.010 City offers irrigation service.
   The city offers irrigation service to the portion of the city described in
the map codified at the end of this chapter. Property owners in this area may
receive irrigation service subject to the procedures set out in Sections
13.16.020 through
13.16.040.
(Ord. 1099 (part), 1986: prior code Art. 11-4)
13.16.020 Fees for service.
   The fee for irrigation service, including valve changes, shall be
established in the City Consolidated Fee Schedule pursuant to Section
1.04.0170. The fees are designed to recover electrical and employee costs
incurred by the city in providing the service. Any unexpected expenses, such as
pump replacement or repair, will be assessed directly back to the district.
(Ord. 1397.02.10 § 7, 2008; Ord. 1406, 1991; Ord. 1099 (part), 1986: prior code
§ 11-4-1)
13.16.030 Fee assessment.
   Assessments are designed to recover large costs to the district which occur
on an irregular or unpredictable schedule. Examples of the costs are repair and
replacement of the pump and vehicle used in providing the service. Assessments
shall be divided equally among all users of the service.
(Ord. 1099 (part), 1986: prior code § 11-4-2)
13.16.040 Billing procedure.
   Fees and assessments are payable by the property owner and the billings may,
in the discretion of the city, be made a part of the sewer and trash bill. If
the billings are made a part of the sewer and trash bill, the property owners
will be subject to all the penalties and collection costs associated with sewer
and trash bills.
(Ord. 1099 (part), 1986: prior code § 11-4-3)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9c6687cea595659b466f012867481463058b4d09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5862.jpg]
Title 14
(RESERVED)
Title 15
BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
Chapters:
15.04   Building and Technical Administrative Code Adopted
15.06   Residential Code Adopted
15.08   Building Code Adopted
15.10   Fuel Gas Code Adopted
15.12   Mechanical Code Adopted
15.14   Energy Conservation Code Adopted
15.16   Plumbing Code Adopted
15.18   Swimming Pool and Spa Code Adopted
15.20   Electrical Code Adopted
15.24   Sign Code Adopted
15.28   Property Maintenance Code Adopted
15.30   Existing Building Code Adopted
15.32   Public Improvement Requirements for Land Developers
15.36   Trailers and Trailer Courts
15.40   Flood Damage Prevention
15.42   Stormwater Management and Drainage
15.44   Miscellaneous Construction Requirements
15.48   Outdoor Light Control
Chapter 15.04
BUILDING AND TECHNICAL ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ADOPTED
Sections:
15.04.010   City of Casa Grande Building and Technical Administrative Code.
15.04.020   Violation—Penalties.
15.04.010 City of Casa Grande Building and Technical Administrative Code.
   That certain document known as the City of Casa Grande Building and
Technical Administrative Code, 2019 Edition, which was made a public record by
Resolution No. 5170 of the City of Casa Grande, Arizona, as well as the “2022
Amendment to the City of Casa Grande Building and Technical Administrative Code
2019 Edition”, which was made a public record by Resolution No. 5397 of the
City of Casa Grande, Arizona, three copies of which are on file in the office
of the Casa Grande City Clerk, are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part
hereof as if fully set out in this section.
(Ord. 1397.15.24 § 3, 2022; Ord. 1397.08.28 § 2, 2019; Ord. 1397.08.25 § 3,
2014)
15.04.020 Violation—Penalties.
   A.    It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish,
equip, use, occupy or maintain any building, structure or building service
equipment, or cause or permit the same to be done, in violation of this chapter
and the other technical codes adopted by the City of Casa Grande.
   B.   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor; and each such person, firm or
corporation shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or
portion thereof during which any violation of any provision of the code is
committed, continued or permitted. Upon conviction, each violation is
punishable by a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars (plus any
applicable surcharges), by imprisonment for not more than four months, or by
both such fine and imprisonment.
   C.   The imposition of one penalty for any violation of this chapter shall
not excuse the violation or permit it to continue. Application of the above
penalty shall not be held to preclude the forced removal of prohibited
conditions.
(Ord. 1397.08.20 § 10 (part), 2008)
Chapter 15.06
RESIDENTIAL CODE ADOPTED
Section:
15.06.010   International Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings.
15.06.020   Violation—Penalties.
15.06.010 International Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings.
   Those certain documents known as (i) “International Residential Code for
One- and Two-Family Dwellings, 2018 Edition” including appendices A, B, C, D,
E, G, H, J, K, Q, T, and U; and (ii) “City of Casa Grande Amendments to the
International Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings, 2018
Edition,” as set forth in the document entitled “2019 Amendments to the City of
Casa Grande Building, Health, and Safety Codes,” both of which were made a
public record by Resolution No. 5170 of the City of Casa Grande, Arizona, three
copies of which are on file in the office of the Casa Grande City Clerk, are
hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this
section.
(Ord. 1397.08.28 § 3, 2019; Ord. 1397.08.25 § 4, 2014)
15.06.020 Violation—Penalties.
   A.    It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish,
equip, use, occupy or maintain any building, structure or building service
equipment, or cause or permit the same to be done, in violation of this chapter
and the other technical codes adopted by the City of Casa Grande.
   B.   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor; and each such person, firm or
corporation shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or
portion thereof during which any violation of any provision of the code is
committed, continued or permitted. Upon conviction, each violation is
punishable by a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars (plus any
applicable surcharges), by imprisonment for not more than four months, or by
both such fine and imprisonment.
     C.   The imposition of one penalty for any violation of this chapter shall
not excuse the violation or permit it to continue. Application of the above
penalty shall not be held to preclude the forced removal of prohibited
conditions.
(Ord. 1397.08.20 § 10 (part), 2008)
Chapter 15.08
BUILDING CODE ADOPTED
Section:
15.08.010   International Building Code.
15.08.020   Violation—Penalties.
15.08.010 International Building Code.
   Those certain documents known as (i) “International Building Code, 2018
Edition” including Appendices C and I; and (ii) “City of Casa Grande Amendments
to the International Building Code, 2018 Edition,” as set forth in the document
entitled “2019 Amendments to the City of Casa Grande Building, Health, and
Safety Codes,” both of which were made a public record by Resolution No. 5170
of the City of Casa Grande, Arizona, as well as the “City of Casa Grande’s
August 2019 Amendments to the International Building Code, 2018 Edition,” which
was made a public record by Resolution No. 5193 of the City of Casa Grande,
Arizona, three copies of which are on file in the office of the Casa Grande
City Clerk, are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully
set out in this section. (Ord. 1397.15.23 § 1, 2019; Ord. 1397.08.28 § 4, 2019;
Ord. 1397.08.25 § 5, 2014)
15.08.020 Violation—Penalties.
   A.    It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish,
equip, use, occupy or maintain any building, structure or building service
equipment, or cause or permit the same to be done, in violation of this chapter
and the other technical codes adopted by the City of Casa Grande.
   B.   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor; and each such person, firm or
corporation shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or
portion thereof during which any violation of any provision of the code is
committed, continued or permitted. Upon conviction, each violation is
punishable by a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars (plus any
applicable surcharges), by imprisonment for not more than four months, or by
both such fine and imprisonment.
   C.   The imposition of one penalty for any violation of this chapter shall
not excuse the violation or permit it to continue. Application of the above
penalty shall not be held to preclude the forced removal of prohibited
conditions.
(Ord. 1397.08.20 § 10 (part), 2008)
Chapter 15.10
FUEL GAS CODE ADOPTED
Section:
15.10.010   International Fuel Gas Code.
15.10.020   Violation—Penalties.
15.10.010 International Fuel Gas Code.
   Those certain documents known as (i) “International Fuel Gas Code, 2018
Edition” including appendices A, B, C, and D; and (ii) “City of Casa Grande
Amendments to the International Fuel Gas Code, 2018 Edition,” as set forth in
the document entitled “2019 Amendments to the City of Casa Grande Building,
Health, and Safety Codes,” both of which were made a public record by
Resolution No. 5170 of the City of Casa Grande, Arizona, three copies of which
are on file in the office of the Casa Grande City Clerk, are hereby referred
to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this section.
(Ord. 1397.08.28 § 5, 2019; Ord. 1397.08.25 § 6, 2014)
15.10.020 Violation—Penalties.
   A.    It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish,
equip, use, occupy or maintain any building, structure or building service
equipment, or cause or permit the same to be done, in violation of this chapter
and the other technical codes adopted by the City of Casa Grande.
   B.   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor; and each such person, firm or
corporation shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or
portion thereof during which any violation of any provision of the code is
committed, continued or permitted. Upon conviction, each violation is
punishable by a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars (plus any
applicable surcharges), by imprisonment for not more than four months, or by
both such fine and imprisonment.
   C.   The imposition of one penalty for any violation of this chapter shall
not excuse the violation or permit it to continue. Application of the above
penalty shall not be held to preclude the forced removal of prohibited
conditions.
(Ord. 1397.08.20 § 10 (part), 2008)
Chapter 15.12
MECHANICAL CODE ADOPTED
Section:
15.12.010   International Mechanical Code.
15.12.020   Violation—Penalties.
15.12.010 International Mechanical Code.
   Those certain documents known as (i) “International Mechanical Code, 2018
Edition” and (ii) “City of Casa Grande Amendments to the International
Mechanical Code, 2018 Edition,” as set forth in the document entitled “2019
Amendments to the City of Casa Grande Building, Health, and Safety Codes,” both
of which were made a public record by Resolution No. 5170 of the City of Casa
Grande, Arizona, three copies of which are on file in the office of the Casa
Grande City Clerk, are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if
fully set out in this section.
(Ord. 1397.08.28 § 6, 2019; Ord. 1397.08.25 § 7, 2014)
15.12.020 Violation—Penalties.
   A.    It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish,
equip, use, occupy or maintain any building, structure or building service
equipment, or cause or permit the same to be done, in violation of this chapter
and the other technical codes adopted by the City of Casa Grande.
   B.   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor; and each such person, firm or
corporation shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or
portion thereof during which any violation of any provision of the code is
committed, continued or permitted. Upon conviction, each violation is
punishable by a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars (plus any
applicable surcharges), by imprisonment for not more than four months, or by
both such fine and imprisonment.
   C.   The imposition of one penalty for any violation of this chapter shall
not excuse the violation or permit it to continue. Application of the above
penalty shall not be held to preclude the forced removal of prohibited
conditions.
(Ord. 1397.08.20 § 10 (part), 2008)
Chapter 15.14
ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE ADOPTED
Section:
15.14.010   International Energy Conservation Code.
15.14.020   Violation—Penalties.
15.14.010   International Energy Conservation Code.
   Those certain documents known as (i) “International Energy Conservation
Code, 2018 Edition” and (ii) “City of Casa Grande Amendments to the
International Energy Conservation Code, 2018 Edition,” as set forth in the
document entitled “2019 Amendments to the City of Casa Grande Building, Health,
and Safety Codes,” both of which were made a public record by Resolution No.
5170 of the City of Casa Grande, Arizona, three copies of which are on file in
the office of the Casa Grande City Clerk, are hereby referred to, adopted and
made a part hereof as if fully set out in this section.
(Ord. 1397.08.28 § 7, 2019; Ord. 1397.08.25 § 8 (part), 2014)
15.14.020   Violation—Penalties.
   A.    It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish,
equip, use, occupy or maintain any building, structure or building service
equipment or cause or permit the same to be done in violation of this chapter
and the other technical codes adopted by the City of Casa Grande.
   B.   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor, and each such person, firm or
corporation shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or
portion thereof during which any violation of any provision of the code is
committed, continued or permitted. Upon conviction, each violation is
punishable by a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars (plus any
applicable surcharges), by imprisonment for not more than four months, or by
both such fine and imprisonment.
   C.   The imposition of one penalty for any violation of this chapter shall
not excuse the violation or permit it to continue. Application of the above
penalty shall not be held to preclude the forced removal of prohibited
conditions.
(Ord. 1397.08.25 § 8 (part), 2014)
Chapter 15.16
PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED
Section:
15.16.010   International Plumbing Code.
15.16.020   Violation—Penalties.
15.16.010 International Plumbing Code.
   Those certain documents known as (i) “International Plumbing Code, 2018
Edition” and (ii) “City of Casa Grande Amendments to the International Plumbing
Code, 2018 Edition,” as set forth in the document entitled “2019 Amendments to
the City of Casa Grande Building, Health, and Safety Codes,” both of which were
made a public record by Resolution No. 5170 of the City of Casa Grande,
Arizona, three copies of which are on file in the office of the Casa Grande
City Clerk, are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully
set out in this section.
(Ord. 1397.08.28 § 8, 2019; Ord. 1397.08.25 § 9, 2014)
15.16.020 Violation—Penalties.
   A.    It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish,
equip, use, occupy or maintain any building, structure or building service
equipment, or cause or permit the same to be done, in violation of this chapter
and the other technical codes adopted by the City of Casa Grande.
   B.   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor; and each such person, firm or
corporation shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or
portion thereof during which any violation of any provision of the code is
committed, continued or permitted. Upon conviction, each violation is
punishable by a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars (plus any
applicable surcharges), by imprisonment for not more than four months, or by
both such fine and imprisonment.
   C.   The imposition of one penalty for any violation of this chapter shall
not excuse the violation or permit it to continue. Application of the above
penalty shall not be held to preclude the forced removal of prohibited
conditions.
(Ord. 1397.08.20 § 10 (part), 2008)
Chapter 15.18
SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE ADOPTED
Section:
15.18.010   International Swimming Pool and Spa Code.
15.18.020    Violation—Penalties.
15.18.010 International Swimming Pool and Spa Code.
   Those certain documents known as (i) “International Swimming Pool and Spa
Code, 2018 Edition” and (ii) “City of Casa Grande Amendments to the
International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, 2018 Edition,” as set forth in the
document entitled “2019 Amendments to the City of Casa Grande Building, Health,
and Safety Codes,” both of which were made a public record by Resolution No.
5170 of the City of Casa Grande, Arizona, three copies of which are on file in
the office of the Casa Grande City Clerk, are hereby referred to, adopted and
made a part hereof as if fully set out in this section.
(Ord. 1397.08.28 § 9 (part), 2019)
15.18.020 Violation—Penalties.
   A.    It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish,
equip, use, occupy or maintain any building, structure or building service
equipment, or cause or permit the same to be done, in violation of this chapter
and the other technical codes adopted by the City of Casa Grande.
   B.   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor; and each such person, firm or
corporation shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or
portion thereof during which any violation of any provision of the code is
committed, continued or permitted. Upon conviction, each violation is
punishable by a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars (plus any
applicable surcharges), by imprisonment for not more than four months, or by
both such fine and imprisonment.
   C.   The imposition of one penalty for any violation of this chapter shall
not excuse the violation or permit it to continue. Application of the above
penalty shall not be held to preclude the forced removal of prohibited
conditions.
(Ord. 1397.08.27 § 9 (part), 2019)
Chapter 15.20
ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED
Section:
15.20.010   National Electrical Code.
15.20.020   Violation—Penalties.
15.20.010 National Electrical Code.
   Those certain documents known as (i) “National Electrical Code, 2017
Edition” including appendices, A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I and J; and (ii) “City
of Casa Grande Amendments to the National Electrical Code, 2017 Edition,” as
set forth in the document entitled “2019 Amendments to the City of Casa Grande
Building, Health, and Safety Codes,” both of which were made a public record by
Resolution No. 5170 of the City of Casa Grande, Arizona, three copies of which
are on file in the office of the Casa Grande City Clerk, are hereby referred
to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this section.
(Ord. 1397.08.28 § 10, 2019; Ord. 1397.08.25 § 10, 2014)
15.20.020 Violation—Penalties.
   A.    It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish,
equip, use, occupy or maintain any building, structure or building service
equipment, or cause or permit the same to be done, in violation of this chapter
and the other technical codes adopted by the City of Casa Grande.
   B.   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor; and each such person, firm or
corporation shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or
portion thereof during which any violation of any provision of the code is
committed, continued or permitted. Upon conviction, each violation is
punishable by a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars (plus any
applicable surcharges), by imprisonment for not more than four months, or by
both such fine and imprisonment.
   C.   The imposition of one penalty for any violation of this chapter shall
not excuse the violation or permit it to continue. Application of the above
penalty shall not be held to preclude the forced removal of prohibited
conditions.
(Ord. 1397.08.20 § 10 (part), 2008)
Chapter 15.24
SIGN CODE ADOPTED
Sections:
15.24.010   Adoption.
15.24.010 Adoption.
   That certain code entitled “Sign Code for the City of Casa Grande,” dated
April 19, 1976, and adopted by Ordinance No. 583 as amended, and adding
Chapter 15.04, Administrative Provisions, is adopted as the “Sign Code” for the
city and made a part of this code the same as though specifically set forth in
full. At least three copies of the code shall be filed in the office of the
city clerk, and kept available for public use and inspection.
(Prior code § 9-7-1)
Chapter 15.28
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED
Sections:
15.28.010   City of Casa Grande Property Maintenance Code.
15.28.020   Violations—Penalties.
15.28.010 City of Casa Grande Property Maintenance Code.
   Those certain documents known as (i) “International Property Maintenance
Code, 2018 Edition” and (ii) “City of Casa Grande Amendments to the
International Property Maintenance Code, 2018 Edition,” as set forth in the
document entitled “2019 Amendments to the City of Casa Grande Building, Health,
and Safety Codes,” both of which were made a public record by Resolution No.
5170 of the City of Casa Grande, Arizona, three copies of which are on file in
the office of the Casa Grande City Clerk, are hereby referred to, adopted and
made a part hereof as if fully set out in this section.
(Ord. 1397.08.28 § 11, 2019; Ord. 1397.08.25 § 11 (part), 2014)
15.28.020 Violations—Penalties.
   A.    It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish,
equip, use, occupy or maintain any building, structure or building service
equipment or cause or permit the same to be done in violation of this chapter
and the other technical codes adopted by the City of Casa Grande.
   B.   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor, and each such person, firm or
corporation shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or
portion thereof during which any violation of any provision of the code is
committed, continued or permitted. Upon conviction, each violation is
punishable by a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars (plus any
applicable surcharges), by imprisonment for not more than four months, or by
both such fine and imprisonment.
   C.   The imposition of one penalty for any violation of this ordinance shall
not excuse the violation or permit it to continue. Application of the above
penalty shall not be held to preclude the forced removal of prohibited
conditions.
(Ord. 1397.08.25 § 11 (part), 2014)
Chapter 15.30
EXISTING BUILDING CODE ADOPTED
Sections:
15.30.010   International Existing Building code.
15.30.020   Violations—Penalties.
15.30.010 International Existing Building Code.
   Those certain documents known as (i) “International Existing Building Code,
2018 Edition” including Chapters A1, A2, A3, A4, A5, C1, and C2; Appendix B;
Resource A; and (ii) “City of Casa Grande Amendments to the International
Existing Building Code, 2018 Edition,” as set forth in the document entitled
“2019 Amendments to the City of Casa Grande Building, Health, and Safety
Codes,” both of which were made a public record by Resolution No. 5170 of the
City of Casa Grande, Arizona, three copies of which are on file in the office
of the Casa Grande City Clerk, are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part
hereof as if fully set out in this section.
(Ord. 1397.08.28 § 12, 2019; Ord. 1397.08.25 § 12 (part), 2014)
15.30.020 Violations—Penalties.
   A.    It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish,
equip, use, occupy or maintain any building, structure or building service
equipment or cause or permit the same to be done in violation of this chapter
and the other technical codes adopted by the City of Casa Grande.
   B.   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor, and each such person, firm or
corporation shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or
portion thereof during which any violation of any provision of the code is
committed, continued or permitted. Upon conviction, each violation is
punishable by a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars (plus any
applicable surcharges), by imprisonment for not more than four months, or by
both such fine and imprisonment.
   C.   The imposition of one penalty for any violation of this chapter shall
not excuse the violation or permit it to continue. Application of the above
penalty shall not be held to preclude the forced removal of prohibited
conditions.
(Ord. 1397.08.25 § 12 (part), 2014)
Chapter 15.32
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS FOR LAND DEVELOPERS
Sections:
15.32.010   Purpose of provisions.
15.32.020   Definitions.
15.32.030   Exceptions.
15.32.040   Purpose of provisions to establish minimum acceptable standards.
15.32.050   Engineering plans required.
15.32.060   Street dedication requirements.
15.32.070   Certain requirements not applicable when.
15.32.080   Grant of easement when.
15.32.090   Right-of-way width requirements.
15.32.100   Required improvement widths—Applicability.
15.32.110   Required improvements—Roadway sections.
15.32.120   Required improvements—Other roadways.
15.32.130   Required improvements—Storm drainage.
15.32.140   Required improvements—Sanitary sewage disposal.
15.32.150   Required improvements—Irrigation facilities.
15.32.160   Required improvements—Water supply.
15.32.170   Street lights.
15.32.180   Required improvements—Utilities.
15.32.190   Required improvements—Refuse containers.
15.32.200   Improvement district agreements when.
15.32.210   Notification and approval of work to be done on right-of-way
required.
15.32.220   Modifications to regulations allowed when.
15.32.010 Purpose of provisions.
   A.   The purpose of these regulations is to provide for the orderly growth
and harmonious development of the city; to ensure that proper off-site
facilities are constructed in conjunction with the development of unsubdivided
land for commercial, industrial, and multiple-family and single-family
residential uses where no subdivision of land is required; to provide for
public dedication of such rights- of-way, as streets or easements, as are
reasonably required by or related to, the effect of the proposed use; to secure
adequate provisions for water supply, drainage, sanitary sewerage, and other
health requirements as part of the development.
   B.   In its interpretation and application, the provisions of these
regulations are intended to provide a common ground of understanding and
equitable working relationship between public and private interests to the end
that both independent and mutual objectives can be achieved in the development
of land where no subdivision is required.
(Prior code Art. 19-1)
15.32.020 Definitions.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   “Council” means the city council of the city of Casa Grande.
   “Developer” means the individual, firm, corporation, partnership,
association, syndication, trust or other legal entity that initiates the
development of land for commercial, industrial, multifamily or single- family
residential purposes in accordance with the provisions of this chapter; and the
developer need not be the owner of the property as defined by this chapter.
   “Development” means an improvement to a parcel, lot or tract of land for
which a building permit is required, or other approval is required under any
existing city code or ordinance.
   “Easement” means a grant by the owner of the use of a strip of land by the
public, a corporation or persons, for specific uses and purposes and so
designated.
   “Engineering plans” means plans, profiles, cross sections and other required
details for the construction of public improvements, prepared by a civil
engineer registered in the state of Arizona in compliance with standards of
design and construction approved by the council.
   “Grantor” means the individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association,
syndication, trust or other legal entity that has authority to convey land to
the city.
   “Irrigation facilities” means and includes canals, laterals, ditches,
conduits, gates, pumps and allied equipment necessary for the supply, delivery
and drainage or irrigation water and the construction, operation, maintenance
of such.
   “Owner” means the person or persons holding a title by deed to land, or
holding any other title of record.
   “Pedestrian way” means a public walk dedicated entirely through a block from
street to street and/or providing access to a school, park, recreation area or
shopping center.
   “Right-of-way” means any public right-of-way, and includes any area required
for public use pursuant to any general or specific plan.
   “Standard specifications and details” means a set of uniform development
specifications approved by the city engineer and adopted by the city council.
   “Streets” means any existing or proposed street, avenue, boulevard, road,
lane, parkway, place, bridge, viaduct or easement for public vehicular access
or street shown in a plat duly filed and recorded in the county recorder's
office. A street includes all land within the street right-of-way whether
improved or unimproved and includes such improvements as pavement, shoulders,
curbs, gutters, sidewalks, parking spaces, bridges and drainage improvements.
   1.   "Expressway/parkway" means a cross-section that provides for the high-
speed movement of large traffic volumes with no direct access to adjacent land.
Expressways/parkways are typically four, six or eight-lane roadways.
   2.   "Principal arterial" means a facility that serves regional circulation
needs. It moves traffic at moderate speeds while providing limited access to
adjacent land. Access is generally controlled through raised medians and
through spacing and location of driveways and intersections. Generally, a
principal arterial is a six- or four-lane facility. Principal arterials are
generally provided on the section line grid and are typically provided at two-
mile intervals.
   3.   "Minor arterial" means a typical section that is generally a four-lane
and sometimes a two-lane roadway. Its purpose is to serve regional/sub-regional
traffic circulation needs by moving traffic at moderate speeds while providing
limited access to adjacent land. Minor arterials are generally provided on the
section line grid between the principal arterials.
   4.   "Major collector" means a facility that provides for shorter distance
trips, generally less than three miles, and primarily serves to collect and
distribute traffic between key traffic generators, local streets, and arterial
streets. This classification provides direct access to abutting land.
   5.   "Minor collector" means a collector that serves shorter distance trips
than the major collector, generally less than one mile. They provide direct
access to adjacent land and collect and distribute traffic between key traffic
generators, local streets, and arterial streets.
   6.   "Local streets" means streets whose primary purpose is to serve
residences and provide circulation to commercial, industrial, or other adjacent
land.
   7.   "Rural" means a cross-section that functions similarly to a local
street, but in less densely developed areas. It typically includes cut ditches
on each side to convey drainage and does not include sidewalks.
   8.   "Cul-de-sac" means a short local street having but one end open for
vehicular traffic, the opposite end being terminated with a permanent turn-
around.
   9.   "Alley" means a public service way used to provide secondary vehicle
access to properties otherwise abutting upon a street.
   “Transportation plan” means an element of the Casa Grande Comprehensive
Plan, adopted by city council, which indicates collector streets, arterial
streets, and other transportation facilities.
   “Utilities” means installations or facilities, underground or overhead,
furnishing for the use of the public electricity, gas, steam, communications,
water, drainage, sewage disposal or flood control, owned and operated by any
person, firm, corporation, municipal department or board, duly authorized by
state or municipal regulations. Utility or utilities as used herein may also
refer to such persons, firms, corporations, departments or board as sense
requires.
(Ord. 1397.15.25 § 1, 2022; Prior code Art. 19-2)
15.32.030 Exceptions.
   All improvements shall be required for all developments in all zoning
classifications with the following exceptions:
   A.   Curb and gutter, concrete sidewalks shall not be required in low
density residential (thirty- five thousand square foot lots minimum) on
interior streets. Arterial and collector streets, both primary and secondary,
are not exempted from these requirements.
   B.   Concrete sidewalks on interior streets shall not be required in an area
zoned heavy industrial.
(Ord. 1397.15.4 § 2 (part), 1992; prior code Art. 19-6)
15.32.040 Purpose of provisions to establish minimum acceptable standards.
   A.   It is the purpose of this chapter to establish in outline the minimum
acceptable standards for improvement of public streets and utilities, including
dedication of additional rights-of-way where needed, to define the
responsibility of the developer in the planning, constructing, and financing of
public improvements and to establish procedures for review and approval of
engineering plans.
   B.   All improvements required in streets, alleys or easements which are
required as a condition of site plan approval shall be the responsibility of
the developer.
(Prior code Art. 19-3 (1))
15.32.050 Engineering plans required.
   It is the responsibility of the developer to have prepared by a civil
engineer, registered in the state of Arizona, a complete set of engineering
plans satisfactory to the city engineer, for construction of required
improvements. The plans shall be prepared and submitted to the city building
inspector together with the on-site construction plans.
(Prior code Art. 19-3 (2))
15.32.060 Street dedication requirements.
   A.   No building or structure shall be erected or enlarged and no building
permit shall be issued therefor on any parcel of land in any zoning district
which abuts any existing or proposed street or alley, if the prospective
erection or enlargement of the building or structure and use thereof will
affect an increase of traffic in the street right-of-way, unless the one-half
of any such abutting right-of-way which is located on the same side of the
center of the street or alley as such parcel of land has been dedicated and
improved for the full width of the parcel where it abuts so as to meet the
standards for each right-of- way as provided in the right-of-way standards and
the requirements of subsection C of this section or such dedication and
improvement has been assured to the satisfaction of the city engineer. As used
in this chapter, the center of the street or alley means the centers of those
existing and proposed rights-of-way as they are shown on any adopted plans of
the city or as would ordinarily be required and developed under requirements of
Chapter 16 of this code.
   B.   The maximum area of land required to be so dedicated shall not exceed
twenty-five percent of the area of any such parcel which was out of record as
of the effective date of the adoption of the ordinance codified in this
chapter, in the Pinal County recorder's office. In the event such dedication
reduces the parcel below a width of an area which is the minimum permitted by
Chapter 17 for a lot zoned as the lot is zoned, an application for a variance
to the zoning regulations may be made to the board of adjustments.
   C.   The additional public improvements required to be constructed under
subsection A of this section, except when subsection D of this section applies
to a parcel and imposes any different requirements outlined in Section
15.32.100.
   D.   No additional improvements shall be required on such a parcel where
complete roadway, paving, curb, gutter, sidewalk, fire hydrants, street lights,
and storm drain improvements exist within the present dedication contiguous
thereto and which were constructed according to city or county standards
applicable at the time of construction for public improvements, if the
improvements meet the standards in effect at that time.
(Prior code Art. 19-3 (3))
15.32.070 Certain requirements not applicable when.
   Dedications and improvements required by Section
15.32.060 shall not apply to:
   A.   Additions and accessory buildings incidental to a residential building
legally existing on the parcel, provided no additional dwelling units or guest
rooms are created;
   B.   Additions and accessory buildings incidental to other than a
residential building existing on the parcel on the date of the adoption of the
ordinance codified in this chapter provided that the total cumulative floor
area of all such additions and accessory buildings shall not exceed two hundred
square feet;
   C.   In any case where the city engineer finds that the prospective erection
or enlargement of the involved building or structure, and the use thereof, will
affect no increase in traffic generation on any street as prescribed in Section
15.32.060 of this chapter. Any such determination by the city engineer within
the purview of this subsection, whether such determination be affirmative or
negative, is appealable to the city council, provided an appeal is presented in
writing to the city clerk within ten days of the decision.
(Prior code Art. 19-3 (4))
15.32.080 Grant of easement when.
   Any person required to dedicate land by the provisions of this chapter shall
provide and offer a grant of easement, or, at his option, grant deed for the
necessary right-of-way in a standard form acceptable to the city attorney.
Dedication shall be considered as satisfactorily assured when the document has
been accepted for recordation by the city engineer.
(Prior code Art. 19-3 (5))
15.32.090 Right-of-way width requirements.
   The minimum right of way widths of streets, cul-de-sacs, and alleys shall be
as follows:
   A.   Expressway: three hundred feet.
   B.   Principal arterial streets: one hundred forty feet.
   C.   Minor arterial streets: one hundred ten feet.
   D.   Major collector streets: eighty feet.
   E.   Minor collector streets: sixty feet.
   F.   Local streets:
      1.   Urban 1/on-street parking allowed with attached sidewalk: forty-four
feet.
      2.   Urban 1a/on-street parking allowed with detached sidewalk: fifty
feet.
      3.   Urban 2/on-street parking not allowed with attached sidewalk:
thirty-eight feet.
      4.   Urban 2a/on-street parking not allowed with detached sidewalk:
forty-four feet.
      5.   Rural/parking not allowed: forty feet.
   G.   Cul-de-sacs: street right of way width is as required by subsection F
of this section with a terminus roadway radius of fifty-three and one-half
feet.
   H.   Alley: twenty feet.
(Ord. 3416 § 1, 2024; Ord. 1397.15.25 § 2, 2022; Ord. 1397.15.4 § 2 (part),
1992)
15.32.100 Required improvement widths—Applicability.
   The following required improvement widths set out in Sections
15.32.110 through
15.32.160 shall apply to all streets, alleys, and pedestrian ways within the
city limits. All improvements shall be constructed in accordance with city
standard specifications and details.
(Prior code Art. 19-5 (part))
15.32.110 Required improvements— Roadway sections.
   Pavement width measured between backs of curbs shall be as follows:
   A.   Expressway: one hundred thirty-eight feet.
   B.   Principal arterial streets: one hundred four feet.
   C.   Minor arterial streets: seventy-six feet.
   D.   Major collector streets: fifty feet.
   E.   Minor collector streets: thirty-six feet.
   F.   Local streets:
      1.   Urban 1 and 1a: thirty-two feet.
      2.   Urban 2 and 2a: twenty-six feet.
      3.   Rural: twenty-four feet.
   G.   Cul-de-sacs: pavement width is as required by subsection F of this
section with a terminus roadway radius of forty-eight feet.
(Ord. 1397.15.25 § 3, 2022; Ord. 1397.15.4 § 2 (part), 1992)
15.32.120 Required improvements—Other roadways.
   Other roadway improvements shall be a minimum of:
   A.   Sidewalks:
      1.   All arterial streets - six feet.
      2.   All collector streets - five feet.
      3.   All local streets - five feet.
   B.   Curb and gutter: twenty-four inches in width.
   C.   Pedestrian ways within open space areas and trail corridors: ten feet.
   D.   Alleys: developments utilizing an alley as access to required parking
shall improve the alley full width, two inches of asphaltic concrete on six
inches of aggregate base course, to the nearest improved intersecting street.
Said new pavement shall be installed to match the grade at the existing alley
pavement.
   E.   Street name signs: signs shall be placed at all street intersections
and be in place by the time the street pavement is ready for use.
Specifications for design, construction, location, and installation shall be in
accordance with city standard specifications.
(Ord. 3416 § 2, 2024; Ord. 1397.15.25 § 4, 2022; Ord. 1397.15.4 § 2 (part),
1992; prior code Art. 19-5 (2))
15.32.130 Required improvements— Storm drainage.
   Proper and adequate provision shall be made for disposal or retention of
storm- water; this shall apply equally to grading of private properties and to
public streets. Existing major watercourses shall be maintained and dedicated
as drainage ways. The type, extent, location and capacity of drainage
facilities shall be approved for the individual development by the city
engineer and shall be constructed in accordance with standards and
specifications established by the city standard specifications. The city
engineer may require an engineering study by a consulting registered engineer
employed by the developer.
(Prior code Art. 19-5 (3))
15.32.140 Required improvements— Sanitary sewage disposal.
   Public sanitary sewers shall be installed in accordance with plans, profiles
and specifications approved by the county and state health departments and the
city engineer and in accordance with the city standard specifications.
(Prior code Art. 19-5 (4))
15.32.150 Required improvements— Irrigation facilities.
   All irrigation facilities to remain within the boundaries of the tract or in
an abutting one-half street or alley right-of-way shall be tiled or relocated
as may be directed by the city engineer. Where street improvements require
relocation of control gates or other structures, such relocation and
reconstruction shall conform to city engineer's requirements.
(Prior code Art. 19-5 (5))
15.32.160 Required improvements— Water supply.
   The development shall be supplied with safe, pure and potable water in
sufficient volume and pressure for domestic use and fire protection in
accordance with city standard specifications. Fire hydrants shall be installed
in accordance with city standard specifications at locations designated by the
chief of the fire department and the city engineer.
(Prior code Art. 19-5 (6))
15.32.170 Street lights.
   Street lights shall be installed on all streets developed. All lights shall
be installed under the direction of the city engineer and in accordance with
the city standard specifications.
(Prior code Art. 19-5 (7))
15.32.180 Required improvements— Utilities.
   All electric power lines (except lines exceeding thirteen KV), all telephone
lines and all cable television lines which are on the site of the development
property, including those on land which will be dedicated to public use as part
of the development, and those utilities lines which must be extended to provide
such utility services to the development property from an end point outside the
development property lines except those lines along arterial or collector
streets, shall be installed underground.
(Ord. 1397.15.11 § 1, 1997: prior code Art. 19-5 (8))
15.32.190 Required improvements— Refuse containers.
   Each development or combination of developments shall be supplied with
a refuse container, at the expense of the developer, to be owned by the city,
as approved by the city engineer unless private containers, approved for use by
the city engineer are supplied. Enclosures for containers in areas other than
single-family residential areas shall be required.
(Prior code Art. 19-5 (9))
15.32.200 Improvement district agreements when.
   In the event any of the off-site improvements cause a hardship on the city,
or it is not practical to construct the improvements because of the pending
formation of an improvement district, the city engineer may temporarily
postpone the off-site improvements upon the developer signing an agreement with
the city to enter into an improvement district.
(Prior code Art. 19-7)
15.32.210 Notification and approval of work to be done on right-of-way
required.
   Prior to any work commencing for any purpose on any public right-of-way, the
person for whom the work is being completed shall file an application for a
right-of-way permit. The city engineer shall require plans and specifications
at the time of application, as well as fees for the city review of the
maintenance, construction or building plans. The fee shall be established in
the City Consolidated Fee Schedule pursuant to Section
1.04.170. Fees shall be made payable to the city. No work shall commence
without the written approval of the city engineer.
(Ord. 1397.02.10 § 8, 2008; Ord. 1397.15.20 1, 2004: prior code Art. 19-8)
15.32.220 Modifications to regulations allowed when.
   A.   When, in the opinion of the council, there exist extraordinary
conditions of topography, land ownership, or adjacent development or other
circumstances not provided for in these regulations, the council may, upon
investigation and recommendation by the city engineer, waive or modify these
regulations in such manner and to such extent as it may deem appropriate to the
public interest.
   B.   Where, due to extraordinary conditions, the council waives or modifies
these regulations, they may also require such protective covenants, bonds or
other legal provisions as will assure future conformity to these regulations.
(Prior code Art. 19-9)
Chapter 15.36
TRAILERS AND TRAILER COURTS
Sections:
15.36.010   Definitions.
15.36.020   General authority.
15.36.030   Enforcement authority.
15.36.040   Parking outside court restricted.
15.36.050   Located in specific zone only.
15.36.060   Court plan requirements.
15.36.070   Water supply requirements.
15.36.080   Service building and accommodation requirements.
15.36.090   Waste and garbage disposal requirements.
15.36.100   Management facilities required—Duties.
15.36.110   License required to operate—Application requirements.
15.36.120   License fee.
15.36.130   Applicability of technical codes.
15.36.140   Revocation or suspension of license when.
15.36.150   Hearing.
15.36.010 Definitions.
   Whenever used in this chapter, unless a different meaning appears from the
context, the following terms are defined:
   “Trailer” means an automobile trailer, trailer coach, mobile home or any
vehicle or structure so designed and constructed in such manner as will permit
occupancy thereof as sleeping quarters for one or more persons, the conduct of
any business or profession, occupation or trade, or use as a selling or
advertising device, and so designed that it is or may be mounted on wheels and
used as a conveyance on highways or city streets, propelled or drawn by its own
or other motive power, excepting a device used exclusively upon stationary
rails or tracks.
   “Trailer court” means any park, trailer park, trailer court, mobile home
park, court, camp, site, lot, parcel, or tract of land designed, maintained or
intended for the purpose of supplying a location or accommodations for any
trailer coach or mobile home, and upon which any trailer coach or mobile home
is parked, and shall include all buildings used, or intended for use, as part
of the equipment thereof, whether a charge is made for the use of the trailer
court and its facilities or not. “Trailer court” shall not include automobile,
trailer or mobile home sales lots on which unoccupied trailers are parked for
purposes of inspection and sale.
   “Unit” means a section of ground in a trailer court of not less than twenty-
four hundred square feet of unoccupied space in an area designated as the
location for only one automobile and one trailer.
(Prior code § 16-1-1)
15.36.020 General authority.
   The city health officer shall have power to make such other rules and
regulations as are consistent with this chapter, as may be necessary to carry
out its provisions.
(Prior code § 16-2-12)
15.36.030 Enforcement authority.
   It is made the duty of the city health officer, chief of police, chief of
the fire department, building inspector, and plumbing inspector to enforce the
provisions of this chapter as set out herein, or as may hereafter be enacted,
and, for the purpose of securing such enforcement, any of the above named
officials, or their authorized representatives, shall have the right and are
empowered to enter upon any premises on which any trailers are located, or are
about to be located, and inspect the same.
(Prior code § 16-2-13)
15.36.040 Parking outside court restricted.
   A.   It is unlawful, within the city limits, for any person to park any
trailer on any street, alley or highway, or other public place, or on any tract
of land owned by any person, occupied or unoccupied within the city, except as
provided in this chapter.
   B.   No person shall park or occupy any trailer or mobile home on the
premises of any occupied dwelling or on any lot which is not a part of the
premises of any occupied dwelling, either of which is situated outside of any
approved trailer court:
   1.   Except the parking of only one unoccupied trailer in any accessory
private garage building, or in a rear yard in any district, is permitted
providing no living quarters shall be maintained or any business practiced in
the trailer while a trailer is so parked or stored; and
   2.   Except in the event of a hardship temporary use permits may be granted
by the zoning administrator not in conflict with existing zoning ordinances.
(Prior code § 16-1-2)
15.36.050 Located in specific zone only.
   No trailer court shall be located in any district other than as provided in
Title 17 of this code, or amendments thereto.
(Prior code § 16-2-2)
15.36.060 Court plan requirements.
   A.   Every trailer court shall be located on a well-drained area, and the
premises shall be properly graded so as to prevent the accumulation of storm or
other waters.
   B.   Units shall be clearly designated and the court shall face or abut on a
driveway not less than twenty feet wide, giving easy access from all units to a
public street. The driveway shall be maintained in good condition, have natural
drainage, be well lighted at night, and shall not be obstructed.
   C.   The court shall be laid out so that no unit shall be located further
than two hundred feet from the toilets and service buildings provided for
herein, and walkways to the buildings shall be well lighted at night.
   D.   Every trailer unit shall be furnished with an electric service outlet.
Such outlet shall be equipped with an externally operated switch or fuse of not
less than thirty amperes capacity, and a heavy duty outlet receptacle.
   E.   Every trailer court shall have, on at least three sides, a picket or
link fence or comparable structure not less than three feet in height. Suitable
openings for driveways or service entrances in the fences shall be provided.
(Prior code § 16-2-3)
15.36.070 Water supply requirements.
   A.   An adequate supply of pure water furnished through a pipe distribution
system connected directly with a water main, with supply faucets located not
more than one hundred feet from any trailer, shall be furnished for drinking
and domestic purposes.
   B.   No common drinking vessels shall be permitted, nor shall any drinking
water faucets be placed in any toilet room or water closet compartment.
   C.   An abundant supply of hot water shall be provided at all times for
bathing, washing and laundry facilities.
(Prior code § 16-2-4)
15.36.080 Service building and accommodation requirements.
   A.   Every trailer court shall have erected thereon, at a distance not
greater than two hundred feet from any unit it is designed to serve, a suitable
building for housing toilets, showers and laundry facilities, as required by
this chapter. Such buildings shall be well lighted at all times, day or night,
well ventilated with screened openings, and constructed of such moisture proof
material as shall permit rapid and satisfactory cleaning, scouring and washing.
   B.   There shall be provided separate toilet rooms for each sex. Flush
toilets provided with an adequate water supply shall be enclosed in separate
compartments and shall be provided for each sex in the ratio of one toilet for
each ten units or major fraction thereof. Every male toilet room shall have one
urinal for each twenty units, but in no case shall any male toilet room be
without one urinal. Toilet rooms shall contain lavatories with hot and cold
water in the ratio of one lavatory to every four or less water closets.
   C.   Separate bathing facilities for each sex shall be provided with one
shower enclosed in a compartment for each ten units or major fraction thereof.
   D.   Laundry facilities shall be provided in the ratio of one double tray
for each fifteen units, or major fraction thereof.
   E.   The above accommodations shall be based on the total court capacity
according to the accepted plans, provided that in the event trailers occupying
a trailer court are equipped with toilet, bathing and laundry facilities, such
facilities need not be erected for trailers so equipped, and provided further,
that it shall be unlawful to rent trailer space to trailers not so equipped
unless such facilities shall have been erected in ratios provided for in
subsections A, B and D of this section. If the operator of a trailer court
adopts, files with the city and enforces a written rule for the trailer court
requiring each trailer parked in his trailer court to have an independent
toilet facility, the provisions of subsection B of this section shall not apply
except that each trailer court shall have at least one central toilet facility
for each sex. If the operator of a trailer court adopts, files with the city
and enforces a written rule for the trailer court requiring each trailer parked
in his trailer court to have an independent bathing facility, the provisions of
subsection C of this section shall not apply.
   F.   The floors of toilets, showers, and the laundry shall be of concrete,
tile or similar material, impervious to water, and easily cleaned and pitched
to a floor drain.
(Prior code § 16-2-5)
15.36.090 Waste and garbage disposal requirements.
   A.   All waste from showers, toilets, laundries, faucets and lavatories
shall be drained into a sewer system extended from and connected with the city
sewer system, or into approved septic tanks.
   B.   All sanitary facilities in any trailer which are not connected with the
city sewer system, or approved septic tanks, shall be sealed and their use is
declared unlawful.
   C.   There shall be provided a garbage collection stand or stands, so that
no unit will be more than two hundred feet from such stand. At least one
twenty-gallon substantial fly-tight metal garbage can shall be provided for
each five units or major fraction thereof. The garbage collection stand shall
be so located as to permit convenient access thereto by garbage collection
trucks. The garbage collection stand shall not be permitted to become foul-
smelling, unsightly or breeding places for flies.
(Prior code § 16-2- 6)
15.36.100 Management facilities required—Duties.
   A.   In every trailer court there shall be an office building or rooms in
which shall be located the office of the person in charge of the court. A copy
of the court license and of the provisions of this chapter shall be posted
therein, and the court register shall at all times be kept in the office.
   B.   It is made the duty of the attendant or person in charge, together with
the licensee to:
   1.   Keep at all times a register of all guests, which shall be open at all
times to inspection by state and federal officers and officers of the city,
showing for all guests:
   a.   Names and addresses,
   b.   Dates of entrance and departure,
   c.   License number of all trailers and towing or other automobiles,
   d.   States issuing such licenses;
   2.   Maintain the court in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition, at all
times;
   3.   See that the provisions of this chapter are complied with and enforced,
and report promptly to the proper authorities any violations of this chapter or
any other violations of law which may come to his attention;
   4.   Report to the city health officer all cases of persons or animals
affected or suspected of being affected with any communicable disease;
   5.   Prevent the running loose of dogs, cats, or other animals or pets;
   6.   Maintain in convenient places, approved by the fire department, hand
fire extinguishers in the ratio of one to each ten units;
   7.   Prohibit the lighting of open fires on the premises;
   8.   Prohibit the use of any trailer by a greater number of occupants than
that which it is designed to accommodate.
(Prior code § 16-2-7)
15.36.110 License required to operate—Application requirements.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to establish, operate or maintain, or
permit to be established, operated or maintained upon any property owned or
controlled by him, a trailer court, within the limits of the city, without
having first secured a license therefor from the clerk, granted and existing in
compliance with the terms of this chapter. Such license shall expire on
December 31 of each year, but may be renewed under the provisions of this
chapter for additional periods of one year.
   B.   The application for such license or the renewal thereof shall be filed
with the clerk and shall be made on a form furnished by the clerk, and shall
include the name and address of the owner of the tract and a legal description
of the premises upon which the trailer court is or will be located, as will
readily identify and definitely locate the premises. An original application
shall be accompanied by two copies of the court plan, showing the following,
either existing or as proposed:
   1.   The extent and area used for court purposes;
   2.   Roadways and driveways;
   3.   Location and number of sanitary conveniences, including toilets,
washrooms, laundries and utility rooms to be used by occupants of units;
   4.   Method and plan of sewage disposal;
   5.   Method and plan of garbage removal;
   6.   Plan for water supply;
   7.   Plan for electrical lighting of units.
   C.   All original applications shall be referred to the city planning and
zoning commission, and before the license may be issued, there must be a
favorable recommendation by a majority of the city planning and zoning
commission, and the premises must be inspected and approved by the city health
officer, chief of police, chief of the fire department, building inspector and
plumbing inspector, or their duly authorized representatives, as complying with
all provisions of this chapter and all other applicable ordinances of the city
and provisions of this code.
   D.   Licenses issued under the terms of the chapter convey no right to erect
any building, to do any plumbing work, or to do any electrical work.
(Prior code § 16-2-1)
15.36.120 License fee.
   There is imposed a license fee of forty dollars per year, payable quarterly
in advance, for a license to operate or maintain a trailer court in the city.
(Prior code § 16-2-8)
15.36.130 Applicability of technical codes.
   All plumbing, electrical, building, mechanical and other work on or at any
court licensed under this chapter shall be in accordance with the provisions of
this code regulating such work.
(Prior code § 16-2-9)
15.36.140 Revocation or suspension of license when.
   The city planning and zoning commission is authorized to revoke any license
issued pursuant to the terms of this chapter, if, after due investigation, they
determine that the holder thereof has violated any of the provisions of this
chapter, or that any trailer or trailer court is being maintained in an
unsanitary or unsafe manner, or is a nuisance.
(Prior code § 16-2-10)
15.36.150 Hearing.
   Any person aggrieved by an order of the city planning and zoning commission
granting, denying, renewing, or revoking a license for a trailer court under
this chapter, may file a written request for a hearing before the commission
within ten days after issuance of the order. The commission shall give notice
of public hearing upon this request to be held in not less than five days after
service of the notice on the person requesting the hearing. The commission
shall also give notice of the hearing to other persons directly interested in
the order in question. At such hearing, the commission shall determine whether
the granting, denial, renewal or revocation of the license was in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter, and shall issue a written findings of
fact, and an order to carry out its findings. These findings of fact and order
shall be filed with the clerk and served by him upon all interested persons
appearing or represented at the hearing.
(Prior code § 16-2-11)
Chapter 15.40
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Sections:
Article I. Definitions
15.40.010   Rules of construction and interpretation.
15.40.020   Accessory structure, low-cost and small.
15.40.025   Accessory building or use.
15.40.030   Appeal.
15.40.035   Applicant.
15.40.040   Area of shallow flooding.
15.40.050   Base flood.
15.40.060   Base flood elevation (BFE).
15.40.070   Basement.
15.40.080   Reserved
15.40.090   Building.
15.40.100   Reserved
15.40.110   Community.
15.40.115   Council.
15.40.117   Reserved
15.40.120   Development.
15.40.121   Dwelling.
15.40.122   Dwelling unit.
15.40.123   Easement.
15.40.124   Elevation certificate.
15.40.125   Encroachment.
15.40.126   Engineer, city.
15.40.127   Reserved
15.40.128   Erosion.
15.40.130   Existing manufactured home park or subdivision.
15.40.140   Expansion to an existing manufactured home park or manufactured
home subdivision.
15.40.150   Reserved
15.40.160   Flood or flooding.
15.40.170   Flood hazard zones A, AE, AO.
15.40.180   Flood hazard zone X shaded.
15.40.190   Flood hazard zone X unshaded.
15.40.200   Flood insurance rate map (FIRM).
15.40.210   Flood insurance study.
15.40.220   Floodplain or flood-prone area.
15.40.230   Floodplain administrator.
15.40.240   Floodplain board.
15.40.250   Floodplain management.
15.40.260   Floodplain management regulations.
15.40.270   Reserved
15.40.280   Floodproofing.
15.40.290   Flood-related erosion.
15.40.300   Floodway.
15.40.310   Functionally dependent use.
15.40.320   Governing body.
15.40.325   Hardship.
15.40.330   Highest adjacent grade.
15.40.335   Historic structure.
15.40.340   Levee.
15.40.350   Reserved
15.40.360   Lowest floor.
15.40.370   Manufactured home.
15.40.380   Manufactured home park or subdivision.
15.40.385   Market value.
15.40.390   Mean sea level.
15.40.395   Reserved
15.40.400   National flood insurance program regulations.
15.40.410   New construction.
15.40.420   Reserved
15.40.425   Obstruction.
15.40.430   Reserved
15.40.440   Person.
15.40.445   One hundred-year flood or 100-year flood.
15.40.448   Owner.
15.40.450   Recreational vehicle.
15.40.460   Regulatory flood elevation (RFE).
15.40.470   Remedy a violation.
15.40.475   Reserved
15.40.480   Riverine.
15.40.485   Slope.
15.40.490   Special flood hazard area.
15.40.500   Start of construction.
15.40.510   Structure.
15.40.515   Substantial damage.
15.40.520   Substantial improvement.
15.40.525   Utilities.
15.40.530   Variance.
15.40.535   Violation.
15.40.540   Water surface elevation.
15.40.545   Watercourse.
Article II. Applicability, General Provisions and Requirements
15.40.550   Authority.
15.40.560   Applicability.
15.40.570   Purpose.
15.40.580   Basis for designating special flood hazard areas.
15.40.590   Interpretation and application of provisions.
15.40.600   City held harmless.
15.40.610   Statutory exceptions.
15.40.620   Floodplain administrator authority.
15.40.630   Review of base flood data.
15.40.640   Duty to maintain and obtain information.
15.40.650   Notification prior to alteration of watercourses.
15.40.660   New delineation of all floodplains and elevations when.
15.40.670   Interpretation of FIRM boundaries.
15.40.680   Notice to county flood control district when.
15.40.690   Other notices required.
15.40.700   Structure declared public nuisance when.
15.40.705   Unlawful acts and penalties.
15.40.710   Action on violations.
15.40.720   Severability.
Article III. Permits, Reports and Procedural Requirements
15.40.730   Special flood hazard area development (SFHA) permit required prior
to construction or development.
15.40.740   Lowest permissible floor elevations in nonresidential structures.
15.40.750   Elevation and wet floodproofing requirements.
15.40.760   Manufactured homes and home parks.
15.40.770   Minimizing the potential for flood damage.
Article IV. Materials and Equipment Storage Standards
15.40.780   Prohibited storage.
15.40.790   Allowable storage.
15.40.800   Standards for recreational vehicles.
Article V. Floodways
15.40.810   Provisions specific to.
15.40.820   Encroachments prohibited with certain exception.
15.40.830   Placement in prohibited.
15.40.840   Compliance with flood hazard reduction provisions required.
Article VI. Standards for Subdivision
15.40.850   Preliminary subdivision proposals.
15.40.860   Final subdivision plans.
15.40.870   Subdivision proposals in general.
15.40.880   Adequate drainage required.
Article VII. Variances and Appeals
15.40.890   Appeals and requests for variances.
15.40.900   Administrative error cause for hearing.
15.40.910   Appeal to superior court when.
15.40.920   Variance criteria.
15.40.930   Granting of variance when.
15.40.940   Reserved
15.40.950   Records to be maintained.
15.40.960   Exceptions.
15.40.970   Variances denied when.
15.40.980   Variances issued when.
15.40.990   Conditions for issuance of variance.
15.40.1000   Written notice of variance issuance required.
Article I. Definitions
15.40.010 Rules of construction and interpretation.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this article
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter it’s most reasonable application.
   A.   For the purpose of these regulations, certain numbers, abbreviations,
terms and words used herein shall be used, interpreted, and defined as set
forth in this section.
   B.   Unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary, words used in the
present tense include the future tense; words used in the plural number include
the singular; the word “herein” means “in.”
   C.   A “person” includes a corporation, a partnership, and an incorporated
association of persons such as a club; “shall” is always mandatory; a
“building” includes a “structure”; a “building” or “structure” includes any
part thereof; “used” or “occupied,” as applied to any land or building, shall
be construed to include the words “intended, arranged, or designed to be used
or occupied.”
   D.   Except as specifically defined herein or, if not defined herein but
defined in Title 17 of this code, all words in this title shall have their
customary dictionary definition.
   E.   Some definitions, for ease of use and convenience, are listed with the
primary focus area being listed first, followed by its modifier. In such cases
the definition shall include the term with its modifier as if listed first. For
example, “engineer, city” would include all uses of city engineer.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.020 Accessory structure, low-cost and small.
   “Accessory structure, low-cost and small” means a structure that is used
solely for the parking of vehicles or limited storage.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007)
15.40.025 Accessory building or use.
   “Accessory building or use” means a subordinate building, or portion of the
principal building, located on the same lot as the principal building, or a
subordinate use of land, either of which is customarily incidental to the
principal building or to the principal use of land. Where part of an accessory
building is connected to a part of the principal building in a substantial
manner as by a roof, such accessory building shall be counted as part of the
principal building. Individual public utility installations above ground are
considered accessory buildings.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019)
15.40.030 Appeal.
   “Appeal” means a request for review of the floodplain administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this article or a request for a variance.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.035 Applicant.
   “Applicant” means the owner of land proposed to be subdivided, or his/her
representative.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019)
15.40.040 Area of shallow flooding.
   “Area of shallow flooding” means a designated AO Zone on a community's flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with a one percent or greater annual chance of
flooding to an average depth of one to three feet, where a clearly defined
channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable, and where
velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or
sheet flow.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007; prior code
Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.050 Base flood.
   “Base flood” means the flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year (also called the “one hundred-year flood”).
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007; prior code
Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.060 Base flood elevation (BFE).
   The computed elevation to which floodwaters is anticipated to rise during
the base flood.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007; prior code
Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.070 Basement.
   “Basement” means any area of the building having its floor sub-grade - i.e.,
below ground level - on all sides.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007)
15.40.080 Reserved
15.40.090 Building.
   “Building” means any structure built for support, shelter, or enclosure of
persons, animals, equipment, chattels, or property of any kind, and includes
any structure.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007)
15.40.100 Reserved
15.40.110 Community.
   Any state, area or political subdivision thereof, or any Indian tribe or
authorized tribal organization, or authorized native organization, which has
authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations for the areas
within its jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019)
15.40.115 Council.
   “Council” means the city council of the city of Casa Grande.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019)
15.40.117 Reserved
15.40.120 Development.
   “Development” means any man-made change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or
storage of equipment or materials.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007; prior code
Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.121 Dwelling.
   “Dwelling” means a building, or portion thereof, used primarily for
residential occupancy, including single-family, two-family, multiple-family
dwellings and group homes, but not including hotels, motels, or tourist homes.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019)
15.40.122 Dwelling unit.
   “Dwelling unit” means a dwelling, or portion of a dwelling, used by one
household for residential purposes.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019)
15.40.123 Easement.
   “Easement” means authorization by a property owner for the use by another,
and for a specified purpose, of any designated part of his/her property
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019)
15.40.124 Elevation certificate.
   “Elevation certificate” means an administrative tool of the national flood
insurance program (NFIP) that is used to provide elevation information
necessary to ensure compliance with community floodplain management ordinances,
to determine the proper insurance premium rate, and to support a request for a
letter of map amendment (LOMA) or letter of map revision based on fill (LOMR-
F).
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019)
15.40.125 Encroachment.
   “Encroachment” means the advance or infringement of uses, buildings,
structures, fences, signs, landscaping, fill, excavation, or development into a
floodplain, which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007)
15.40.126 Engineer, city.
   “Engineer, city” means the professional engineer designated by the city
manager to administer the city’s engineering requirements.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019)
15.40.127 Reserved
15.40.128 Erosion.
   “Erosion” means the process of the gradual wearing away of landmasses as a
result of the movement of wind, water, or ice. This peril is not, per se,
covered under the national flood insurance program.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007)
15.40.130 Existing manufactured home park or subdivision.
   “Existing manufactured home park or subdivision” means a manufactured home
park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the
lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the
effective date of the floodplain management regulations adopted by the
community.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.140 Expansion to an existing manufactured home park or manufactured home
subdivision.
   “Expansion to an existing manufactured home park or manufactured home
subdivision” means the preparation of additional sites by the construction of
facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be
affixed (including the installation of utilities, either final site grading or
pouring of concrete pads, or the construction of streets).
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.150 Reserved
15.40.160 Flood or flooding.
   “Flood or flooding” means a general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of floodwaters;
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source; and/or
   C.    The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other
body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents
of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an
unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe
storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding as defined in this definition.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.170 Flood hazard Zones A, AE, and AO.
   Zone A - No base flood elevations determined.
   Zone AE - Base flood elevations determined.
   Zone AO - Flood depths of one to three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping
terrain); average depths determined. For areas of alluvial fan flooding,
velocities also determined.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.180 Flood hazard Zone X shaded.
   “Flood hazard Zone X shaded” means areas with a two-tenths of one percent
annual chance of flooding; areas with one percent annual chance of shallow
flooding less than one foot or with drainage areas less than one square mile;
and areas protected by levees from one percent annual chance flood.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.190 Flood hazard Zone X unshaded.
   “Flood hazard Zone X unshaded" is an area on a FIRM outside both the special
flood hazard areas and the Zone X shaded areas. It is described as an area of
minimal flood hazard.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.200 Flood insurance rate map (FIRM).
   “Flood insurance rate map (FIRM)” means the official map of a community on
which the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has delineated both the
special flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the
community.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007; prior code
Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.210 Flood insurance study.
   “Flood insurance study” means the official report provided by Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) that includes flood profiles, the FIRM, and
the water surface elevation of the base flood.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007; prior code
Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.220 Floodplain or flood-prone area.
   Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any source. See
“flood or flooding.”
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.230 Floodplain administrator.
   “Floodplain administrator” means the city manager or designee.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007; prior code
Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.240 Floodplain board.
   “Floodplain board” means the city council of Casa Grande at such times as it
is engaged in the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.250 Floodplain management.
   “Floodplain management” means the operation of an overall program of
corrective and preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and
enhancing, where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but
not limited to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain
management regulations, and open space plans.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007; prior code
Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.260 Floodplain management regulations.
   “Floodplain management regulations” means zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. The term describes the federal, state or local regulations
in any combination thereof, which provide standards for the purpose of
prevention and reduction of flood loss and damage.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019)
15.40.270 Reserved
15.40.280 Floodproofing.
   “Floodproofing” means any combination of structural and nonstructural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate
flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary
facilities, structures and their contents by means other than elevation.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.290 Flood-related erosion.
   “Flood-related erosion” means the collapse or subsidence of land along the
shore of a lake or other body of water as a result of undermining caused by
waves or currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly
caused by an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied
by severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as a flash flood
or an abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable
event which results in flooding.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.300 Floodway.
   “Floodway” means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007; prior code
Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.310 Functionally dependent use.
   “Functionally dependent use” means a use which cannot perform its intended
purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The
term includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for
the loading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but it does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.320 Governing body.
   “Governing body” means the local governing unit, i.e., county or
municipality that is empowered to adopt and implement regulations to provide
for the public health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019)
15.40.325 Hardship.
   “Hardship” means, as related to Article VII of this chapter, the exceptional
hardship that would result from a failure to grant a requested variance. A
variance must be exceptional, unusual and peculiar to the property involved.
Mere economic or financial hardship alone is not exceptional. Inconvenience,
aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps, personal preferences, or the
disapproval of one’s neighbors, likewise, cannot, as a rule, qualify as an
exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be resolved through other means
without granting a variance, even if the alternative is more expensive, or
requires the property owner to build elsewhere or put the parcel to a different
use than originally intended.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007)
15.40.330 Highest adjacent grade.
   “Highest adjacent grade” means the highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.335 Historic structure.
   “Historic structure” means any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior), or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district, or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary
of Interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified by an
approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007)
15.40.340 Levee.
   “Levee” means a man-made structure, usually in an earthen embankment,
designed and constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to
contain, control or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from
temporary flooding.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.350 Reserved
15.40.360 Lowest floor.
   “Lowest floor” means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s “lowest floor;” provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the non-
elevation design requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.370 Manufactured home.
   “Manufactured home” means a structure, transportable in one or more
sections, built on a permanent chassis and designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation, when connected to the required utilities. The term
“manufactured home” includes “mobile home,” but does not include a
“recreational vehicle.”
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.380 Manufactured home park or subdivision.
   “Manufactured home park or subdivision” means a parcel (or contiguous
parcels) of land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for sale or
rent.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.385 Market value.
   “Market value” shall be determined by estimating the cost to replace the
structure in new condition and adjusting that cost figure by the amount of
depreciation which has accrued since the structure was constructed.
   A.   The cost of replacement of the structure shall be based on a square
foot cost factor, determined by reference to a building cost estimating guide
recognized by the building construction industry.
   B.   The amount of depreciation shall be determined by taking into account
the age, physical deterioration and functional obsolescence of the structure,
as approved by the floodplain administrator, but shall not include economic or
other forms of external obsolescence.
   Use of replacement costs or accrued depreciation factors different from
those contained in recognized building cost estimating guides may be
considered, only if such factors are included in a report prepared by an
independent professional appraiser and supported by a written explanation of
the differences.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007)
15.40.390 Mean sea level.
   “Mean sea level” means, for purposes of the national flood insurance
program, the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, North American
Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988, or other datum, to which base flood elevations
shown on a community’s flood insurance rate map are referenced.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007; prior code
Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.395 Reserved
15.40.400 National flood insurance program regulations.
   “National flood insurance program regulations” means laws and regulations
pursuant to Section 206 of the Flood Protection Act of 1973 (Public Law 93-
234), and in accordance with the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended (Title XIII of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968, Public
Law 90-448), 42 U.S.C. 40014128, and 44 C.F.R. Part 65.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019)
15.40.410 New construction.
   “New construction” means, for the purposes of determining insurance rates,
structures for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the
effective date of an initial flood insurance rate map, or after December
31,1974, whichever is later, and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures. For floodplain management purposes, “new construction” means
structures for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the
initial effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by a
community, and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007; prior code
Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.420 Reserved
15.40.425 Obstruction.
   “Obstruction” means any object, including but not limited to, any dam, wall,
wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation,
channelization, bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel,
refuse, fill, structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or
projecting into any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the
direction and/or velocity of the flow of water, or due to its location, its
propensity to snare or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its
likelihood of being carried downstream.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007)
15.40.430 Reserved
15.40.440 Person.
   “Person” means an individual or his agent, firm, partnership, association or
corporation, or agent of the aforementioned groups, or this state or its
agencies or political subdivisions.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.445 One hundred-year flood or 100-year flood.
   “One hundred-year flood” or “100-year flood” means the common name for a
flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given
year. See also “base flood.”
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007)
15.40.448 Owner.
   “Owner” means the person or persons holding a title by deed to land or
holding any other title of record.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019)
15.40.450 Recreational vehicle.
   “Recreational vehicle” means a vehicle which is: built on a single chassis;
400 square feet or less, when measured at the largest horizontal projection;
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable; and designed primarily
not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as temporary living quarters for
recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.460 Regulatory flood elevation (RFE).
   “Regulatory flood elevation” means an elevation one foot above the base
flood elevation.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007; prior code
Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.470 Remedy a violation.
   “Remedy a violation” means to bring the structure or other development into
compliance with federal, state or local floodplain management regulations, or,
if this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of this
chapter or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.475 Reserved
15.40.480 Riverine.
   “Riverine” means relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.485 Slope.
   “Slope” is an inclined ground surface, the inclination of which is expressed
as a ratio of horizontal distance to vertical distance.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019)
15.40.490 Special flood hazard area.
   “Special flood hazard area (SFHA)” means an area in the floodplain subject
to a one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year. It is shown
on a flood boundary and floodway map or flood insurance rate map as Zone A, AO
or AE.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007)
15.40.500 Start of construction.
   “Start of construction” means and includes substantial improvement and other
proposed new development, and means the date the building permit was issued;
provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, placement,
or other improvement was within one hundred eighty days of the permit date. The
“actual start” means either the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on the site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
“Permanent construction” does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not a part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the “actual start of construction” means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007; prior code
Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.510 Structure.
   “Structure” means a walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid
storage tank, that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.515 Substantial damage.
   “Substantial damage” means damage of any origin sustained by a structure
whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition
would equal or exceed fifty percent of the market value of the structure before
the damage occurred.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007)
15.40.520 Substantial improvement.
   “Substantial improvement” means any repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition or other improvement of a structure, the total cost of which equals or
exceeds fifty percent of the market value of the structure before the “start of
construction” of the improvement. The term includes structures which have
incurred “substantial damage,” regardless of the actual repair work performed.
The term does not, however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official, and which
are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
   B.   Any alteration of an historic structure, provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a “historic
structure.”
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007; prior code
Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.525 Utilities.
   “Utilities” mean installations or facilities, underground or overhead,
furnishing for the use of the public: electricity, gas, steam, communication,
water, drainage, sewage disposal or flood control, owned and operated by any
person, firm, corporation, municipal department or board, duly authorized by
state or municipal regulations.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019)
15.40.530 Variance.
   “Variance” means a grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter
which permits development in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by
this chapter.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.535 Violation.
   “Violation” means the failure of a structure or other development to be
fully compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A
structure or other development without the elevation certificate, other
certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in this chapter is
presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code Art. 17-2 (part))
15.40.540 Water surface elevation.
   “Water surface elevation” means the height, in relation to the National
Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of
1988, or other datum, of floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the
floodplains of coastal or riverine areas.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007)
15.40.545 Watercourse.
   “Watercourse” means a lake, river, creek, stream, wash, arroyo, channel or
other topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
Watercourse includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007)
Article II. Applicability, General Provisions
and Requirements
15.40.550 Authority.
   In A.R.S. § 48-3610, the Arizona State Legislature enabled the city of Casa
Grande to assume the powers and duties for floodplain management, and adopt
regulations in conformance with A.R.S. § 48-3609, designed to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry. The city of Casa
Grande has elected to assume those duties for property within the city limits
of the city of Casa Grande and under that authority has adopted this chapter.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019)
15.40.560 Applicability.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas within the
corporate limits of the city of Casa Grande, Arizona. All development of land,
construction of residential, commercial or industrial structures, or future
development within delineated floodplain areas, is subject to the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations. This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and another chapter, ordinance,
easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes
the most stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code § 17-3-1)
15.40.570 Purpose.
   The flood hazard areas of Casa Grande are subject to periodic inundation
which may result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
These flood losses may be caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions in
flood hazard areas which increase flood heights and velocities and, when
inadequately anchored, cause damage in other areas. Uses that are inadequately
floodproofed, elevated or otherwise protected from flood damage, also
contribute to flood loss. Accordingly, it is the purpose of this chapter to
promote public health, safety, and general welfare, and to minimize public and
private losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed
to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.    Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the genera! public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains; electric, telephone and sewer lines; and streets and bridges located
in special flood hazard areas;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of special flood hazard areas so as to minimize blight areas caused
by flooding;
   G.   Notify potential buyers that the property is in a special flood hazard
area;
   H.   Notify those who occupy special flood hazard areas that they assume
responsibility for their actions; and
   I.   Participate in and maintain eligibility for flood insurance and
disaster relief.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019)
15.40.580 Basis for designating special flood hazard areas.
   The special flood hazard areas regulated by this chapter have been
identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in a scientific
and engineering report entitled, “The Flood Insurance Study for the Pinal
County, Arizona, and Incorporated Areas,” dated June 16, 2014, with
accompanying flood insurance rate maps, dated December 4, 2007, and all
subsequent amendments and/or revisions thereto, which is adopted by reference
and declared to be a part of this chapter. The flood insurance study is on file
at the city development center office, 510 East Florence Boulevard, Casa
Grande, Arizona. The flood insurance study is the minimum area of applicability
of this chapter. It may be supplemented by studies for other areas which allow
implementation of this chapter, and which are recommended to the floodplain
board by the floodplain administrator. The floodplain board, within its area of
jurisdiction, shall delineate (or may, by rule, require developers of land to
delineate) for areas where development is ongoing or imminent, and thereafter
as development becomes imminent, floodplains consistent with the criteria
developed by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Director of the
Arizona Department of Water Resources.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007; prior code
§ 17-3-2)
15.40.590 Interpretation and application of provisions.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   C.    Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code § 17-3-5)
15.40.600 City held harmless.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the special flood hazard areas or uses permitted within
such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not
create liability on the part of Casa Grande, the state of Arizona, the Federal
Emergency Management Agency, the Federal Insurance Administration, or any
officer or employer thereof, for any flood damages that result from reliance on
this chapter or an administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007; prior code
§ 17-3-6)
15.40.610 Statutory exceptions.
   A.   Nothing in this chapter shall:
   1.   Affect existing legal uses of property or the right to continuation of
such legal use under conditions which existed on the initial effective date of
this chapter except:
   If a nonconforming use of land or a building or structure is discontinued
for twelve months, or destroyed to the extent of fifty percent of its value as
determined by a competent appraiser, any further use shall comply with this
article and regulations of the city council;
   2.   Affect reasonable repair or alteration of property for the purposes for
which the property was legally used on August 3,1984, or on the date the
regulations affecting such property takes effect, except that any alteration,
addition or repair to a nonconforming building or structure which would result
in increasing its flood damage potential by fifty percent or more shall be
either floodproofed or elevated to or above the regulatory flood elevation; and
provided the repair or alteration does not decrease the carrying capacity of
the watercourse;
   3.   Affect reasonable repair of structures constructed with the written
authorization required by A.R.S. 48-3613;
   4.   Affect or apply to facilities constructed or installed pursuant to a
certificate of environmental compatibility issued under the authority of A.R.S.
Title 40, Chapter 2, Article 6.2.
   5.   In accordance with A.R.S. § 48-3613(D), in addition to other penalties
or remedies otherwise provided by law, this state, a political subdivision or a
person who may be damaged or has been damaged as a result of the unauthorized
diversion, retardation or obstruction of a watercourse has the right to
commence, maintain and prosecute any appropriate action or pursue any remedy to
enjoin, abate or otherwise prevent any person from violating or continuing to
violate this section or regulations adopted pursuant to A.R.S. Title 48,
Chapter 21, Article 1. If a person is found to be in violation of this section,
the court shall require the violator to either comply with this section if
authorized by the floodplain board, or remove the obstruction and restore the
watercourse to its original state. The court may also award such monetary
damages as are appropriate to the injured parties resulting from the violation,
including reasonable costs and attorney fees.
   B.   Written authorization shall not be required, nor shall the floodplain
board prohibit:
   1.   The construction of bridges, culverts, dikes and other structures
necessary to the construction of public highways, roads and streets
intersecting a watercourse;
   2.   The construction of storage dams for watering livestock or wildlife,
structures on the banks of a creek, stream, river, wash, arroyo or other
watercourse to prevent erosion of or damage to adjoining land, if the structure
will not divert, retard or obstruct the natural channel of the watercourse or
dams for the conservation of floodwaters as permitted by A.R.S. Title 45,
Chapter 6;
   3.   Construction of tailing dams and waste disposal areas for use in
connection with mining and metallurgical operations. This section does not
exempt those sand and gravel operations which will divert, retard or obstruct
the flow of waters in any watercourse from any provisions of this chapter or
other regulations adopted by the floodplain board;
   4.   Any flood control district, county, city, town or other political
subdivision, from exercising powers granted to it under A.R.S. Title 48,
Chapter 21, Article 1.
   5.   The construction of streams, waterways, lakes and other auxiliary
facilities in conjunction with development of public parks and recreation
facilities by a public agency or political subdivision;
   6.   The construction and erection of poles, towers, foundations, support
structures, guy wires and other facilities related to power transmission as
constructed by any utility, whether a public service corporation or a political
subdivision; and
   7.   Other construction upon determination by the floodplain board that
written authorization is unnecessary.
   C.    Before any construction authorized by subsection B of this section may
begin, the person must submit plans for the construction for review and comment
(A.R.S. § 48-3613.C).
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007; prior code
§ 17-3-7)
15.40.620 Floodplain administrator authority.
   The floodplain administrator is authorized to administer and enforce the
provisions of this chapter, and to delegate authority to other officials in the
city to take such actions or grant or deny permits in accordance with this
chapter. The floodplain administrator shall:
   A.   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
   B.   Ensure that all other required state and federal permits have been
obtained;
   C.   Review all permits to determine that the site is reasonably safe from
flooding;
   D.   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed development
adversely affects the flood-carrying capacity of the floodway, or of areas
where base flood elevations have been determined but a floodway has not been
designated. For purposes of this chapter, “adversely affects” means that the
cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
   E.   Develop procedures for identifying and administering requirements for
substantial improvement and substantial damage;
   F.   Assure that all procedures detailed in this chapter are coordinated
with other city departments and divisions and implemented by staff.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007; prior code
§ 17-4-2.1)
15.40.630 Review of base flood data.
   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance with
Section
15.40.580, the floodplain administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any base flood data available from a federal, state or other source, in
order to administer Article IV. Any such information shall be consistent with
the requirements of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Director of
the Arizona Department of Water Resources, and shall be submitted to the
floodplain board for adoption.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007; prior code
§ 17-4-2.2)
15.40.640 Duty to maintain and obtain information.
   The floodplain administrator shall obtain and maintain for public inspection
and make available as needed:
   A.   The certified elevation required in subsection
15.40.750.A for residential, and in Section
15.40.760 for manufactured homes;
   B.   The certification required in subsection
15.40.740.C for nonresidential construction;
   C.    The flood vent certification required in subsection
15.40.750.C;
   D.    The certified elevation required for subdivisions in Section
15.40.860;
   E.   The floodway encroachment certification required in Section
15.40.820;
   F.   Maintain a record of all variance actions, including justification for
their issuance, and report such variances issued in its biennial report
submitted to the Federal Emergency Management Agency; and
   G.   Obtain and maintain improvement calculations required by this chapter.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007; prior code
§ 17-4-2.3)
15.40.650 Notification prior to alteration of watercourses.
   The floodplain administrator shall:
   A.   Notify adjacent communities and the Arizona Department of Water
Resources prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit
evidence of such notification to the Federal Management Agency through
appropriate means; and
   B.   Require and assure that the flood-carrying capacity of the altered or
relocated portion of the watercourse is maintained.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007; prior code
§ 17-4-2.4)
15.40.660 New delineation of all floodplains and elevations.
   A.   Within one hundred twenty days after completion of construction of any
flood control protective works which changes the rate of flow during the flood
or the configuration of the floodplain upstream or downstream from or adjacent
to the project, the person or agency responsible for installation of the
project shall provide to the governing bodies of all jurisdictions affected by
the project a new delineation of all floodplains affected by the project. The
new delineation shall be done according to the criteria adopted by the Director
of the Arizona Department of Water Resources.
   B.   Base flood elevations may increase or decrease resulting from physical
changes affecting flooding conditions. As soon as practicable, but not later
than six months after the date such information becomes available, the
floodplain administrator shall notify the Federal Emergency Management Agency
of the changes by submitting technical or scientific data in accordance with 44
C.F.R. § 65.3. Such a submission is necessary so that, upon confirmation of
those physical changes affecting flooding conditions, risk premium rates and
floodplain management requirements will be based upon current data.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007; prior code
§ 17-4-2.5)
15.40.670 Interpretation of FIRM boundaries.
   The floodplain administrator shall make interpretations where needed, as to
the exact location of the boundaries of the special flood hazard area (for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions). The person contesting the location of the boundary
shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as
provided in Article VII.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code § 17-4-2.6)
15.40.680 Notice to county flood control district.
   The floodplain administrator shall advise the flood control district of
Pinal County, and any adjunct jurisdiction having responsibility for floodplain
management, in writing, and provide a copy of development plan of all
applications for floodplain use permits or variances to develop land in a
floodplain or floodway within one mile of the corporate limits of the city. The
floodplain administrator shall also advise the flood control district of Pinal
County in writing, and provide a copy of any development plan of any major
development proposed within a floodplain or floodway which could affect
floodplains, floodways or watercourses within the district's area of
jurisdiction. Written notice and a copy of the plan of development shall be
sent to the district no later than three working days after having been
received by the district.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code § 17-4-2.8)
15.40.690 Other notices required.
   The floodplain administrator shall notify the Federal Emergency Management
Agency of the acquisition, by means of annexation, incorporation or otherwise,
of additional areas of jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007)
15.40.700 Structure declared public nuisance when.
   All development located or maintained within any special flood hazard area
after August 8,1973, in violation of this chapter is a public nuisance per se,
and may be abated, prevented or restrained by action of this political
subdivision.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007; prior code
§ 17-3-8)
15.40.705 Unlawful acts and penalties.
   A.   It is unlawful for a person to engage in any development or to divert,
retard or obstruct the flow of waters in a watercourse, if it creates a hazard
to life or property, without securing the written authorization required by
A.R.S. § 48-3613. Where the watercourse is a delineated floodplain, it is
unlawful to engage in any development affecting the flow of waters without
securing written authorization required by A.R.S. § 48-3613.
   B.   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor. Each day that a violation continues
shall be a separate offense punishable as herein above described.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007; prior code
§ 17-3-10)
15.40.710 Action on violations.
   The floodplain administrator shall take actions on violations of this
chapter. If standard enforcement methods, or other attempts to remedy a
violation, do not result in abatement of the violation, the floodplain
administrator shall submit a report to the floodplain board, which shall
include all information available to the floodplain administrator which is
pertinent to the violation. Within thirty days of receipt, the floodplain board
shall either:
   A.   Take any necessary action to effect the abatement of such violation;
   B.   Submit the matter to the floodplain review board to determine whether
the issuance of a variance would be warranted in accordance with the provisions
of Article VII of this chapter;
   C.   Order the owner of the property upon which the violation exists to
provide whatever additional information as may be required for the board’s
determination to the floodplain administrator within thirty days of such order.
The floodplain administrator shall submit an amended report to the floodplain
board within twenty days. At their next regularly scheduled public meeting
(with due consideration for proper notice and ability to agendize the matter
for consideration), the floodplain board shall either order the abatement of
the violation, or submit the matter to the floodplain review board to determine
whether the issuance of a variance would be warranted in accordance with the
provisions of Article VII of this chapter;
   D.   If applicable, submit to the administrator of the Federal Emergency
Management Agency or the Federal Insurance Administration a decision for denial
of insurance, stating that the property is in violation of a cited state or
local law, regulation or ordinance, pursuant to Section 1316 of the National
Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code § 17-4-2.7)
15.40.720 Severability.
   This chapter and the various parts thereof are hereby declared to be
severable. Should any section of this chapter be declared by the courts to be
unconstitutional or invalid, that decision shall not affect the validity of the
chapter as a whole, or any portion thereof, other than the section so declared
to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019)
Article III. Permits, Reports and Procedural Requirements
15.40.730 Special flood hazard area development (SFHA) permit required prior to
construction or development.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to engage in any development within a
SFHA without securing a SFHA development permit. Any violation of this section
shall be subject to prosecution as a Class 2 misdemeanor in accordance with
subsection
15.40.705.B.
   B.   A SFHA development permit shall be obtained before construction or
development begins, including placement of manufactured homes within any
special flood hazard area established in Section
15.40.580. Applications for a development permit shall be made on forms
furnished by the floodplain administrator, and may include, but not be limited
to, plans, in duplicate and drawn to scale, showing the nature, location,
dimensions and elevation of the area in question; existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities and the location of
the foregoing. Specifically, at least the following information shall be
required:
   1.   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all structures. In Zone AO, elevation of existing
highest adjacent natural grade, and proposed elevation of lowest floor of all
structures;
   2.   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure will be floodproofed;
   3.   Certification by a registered, professional engineer or architect that
the floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet the
floodproofing criteria of this chapter;
   4.   Base flood elevation data; and
   5.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered or
relocated as a result of proposed development.
   C.   Reports, construction plans, and other data submitted in support of an
application for a permit shall comply with the criteria as set forth in this
chapter.
   D.    The design procedures and criteria to be used shall be in accordance
with those prepared and published by the city of Casa Grande.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007; prior code
§ 17-4-1)
15.40.740 Lowest permissible floor elevations in nonresidential structures.
   A.   In flood hazard Zones A and AE, a new nonresidential structure, or the
substantial improvement of an existing nonresidential structure, shall be
constructed according to one of the two following requirements:
   1.   The lowest floor shall be constructed at an elevation to or above the
regulatory flood elevation; or
   2.   The lowest floor may be constructed at an elevation lower than the
regulatory flood elevation, but floodproofing shall be provided for the
structure to an elevation which is to or above the regulatory flood elevation.
   B.   In flood hazard Zone AO, a new nonresidential structure, or the
substantial improvement of an existing nonresidential structure, shall be
constructed according to one of the following requirements:
   1.    The lowest floor shall be constructed at an elevation at least one
foot above the elevation determined by finding the elevation of the highest
ground adjacent to where the structure will be located, and adding to that
elevation the depth number specified on the FIRM for that AO Zone; or
   2.   The lowest floor may be constructed below the minimum lowest floor
elevation specified in subdivision B.1 above, but floodproofing shall be
provided for the structure to an elevation one foot above the depth number
specified on the FIRM for that AO Zone.
   C.    Nonresidential construction, whether new or substantially improved,
shall either be elevated in conformance with subsections A and B of this
section, or together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, shall:
   1.   Be floodproofed so that below the regulatory flood elevation the
structure is watertight, with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water;
   2.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and the effects of buoyancy; and
   D.   Be certified by a registered, professional surveyor, engineer or
architect that the standards of this subsection are satisfied. Upon completion
of the structure, certification by a registered, professional engineer or
surveyor that the elevation requirements of the lowest floor, including
basement, of this section have been satisfied, shall be provided to the
floodplain administrator for verification. Where floodproofing has been used to
satisfy the requirements of this section, written certification by a
registered, professional engineer or architect shall be provided to the
floodplain administer, upon completion of the structure, that verifies that the
floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet the floodproofing
criteria in FEMA Technical Bulletin 3, titled “Nonresidential Floodproofing:
Requirements and Certification.”
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code § 17-4-1(H) (part))
15.40.750 Elevation and wet floodproofing requirements.
   A.   Residential construction, new or substantial improvement, shall have
the lowest floor, including basement:
   1.   In an AO Zone, elevated to or above the regulatory flood elevation, or
elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number
is specified;
   2.   In an A Zone where a base flood elevation has not been determined,
elevated to or above the regulatory flood elevation, or elevated in accordance
with the criteria developed either by FEMA or the Director of the Arizona
Department of Water Resources;
   3.   In Zone AE, elevated to or above the regulatory flood elevation.
   B.   Upon completion of the structure and prior to occupancy, an elevation
certificate indicating the elevation of the lowest floor, including basement,
shall be certified by a registered, professional engineer or surveyor. The
elevation certificate shall be provided to the floodplain administrator.
   C.    All new construction and substantial improvements with fully enclosed
areas below the lowest floor that are subject to flooding (excluding basements)
and areas that are usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or
storage, shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces
on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs
for meeting this requirement must be certified by a registered, professional
engineer or architect to meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
   1.   A minimum of two openings, on differing sides of each area, having a
total net area of not less than one square inch for every square foot of
enclosed area subject to flooding shall be provided;
   2.   The bottom of an openings shall be no higher than one foot above grade;
   3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices, provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   If it is not feasible or desirable to meet the openings criteria stated
above, alternatively a registered, engineer or architect may design and certify
the openings.
   D.    Manufactured homes shall meet the standards of Section
15.40.760.
   E.   Garages and accessory storage buildings shall meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
   1.   A garage attached to a residential structure, constructed with the
garage floor slab below the regulatory flood elevation, must be designed to
allow for the automatic entry of floodwaters as set forth in subsection
15.40.750.C. Areas of the garage below the regulatory flood elevation must be
constructed with flood-resistant materials.
   2.   A garage attached to a nonresidential structure must meet the above
requirements or be dry floodproofed.
   3.   A low-cost and small accessory structure used solely for parking and/or
storage may be constructed such that its floor is below the regulatory flood
elevation, provided the structure is designed and constructed in accordance
with the following requirements:
      a.   Use of the accessory structure must be limited to parking or limited
storage;
      b.   The portions of the accessory structure located below the regulatory
flood elevation must be built using flood-resistant materials;
      c.   The accessory structure must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse and lateral movement;
      d.   Any mechanical and utility equipment in the accessory structure must
be elevated or floodproofed to or above the regulatory flood elevation;
      e.   The accessory structure must comply with floodway encroachment
provisions in Article V.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007; prior code
§ 17-5-1.3)
15.40.760 Manufactured homes and home parks.
   A.   The new installation of a manufactured home within a floodway is
prohibited.
   B.   A manufactured home and additions installed in a new location or as a
replacement for an existing manufactured home in a special flood hazard area
must be done in the following manner:
   1.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elements of at least equivalent strength, and is securely anchored
to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist floatation, collapse, and
lateral movement.
   2.   All manufactured homes shall be placed on pads or lots elevated on
compacted fill, pilings, piers, stem walls or similar approved foundation
design so that the bottom of the structural frame, or the lowest point of any
attached appliances, whichever is lower, is to or above the regulatory flood
elevation. If elevated:
      a.   The lots shall be large enough to permit steps;
      b.   The pilings shall be placed in a stable soil no more than ten feet
apart; and
      c.   Reinforcement shall be provided for pilings more than six feet above
ground level.
   C.   Upon completion of installation of the structure, the elevation of the
lowest structural member or lowest point of any attached appliances, whichever
is lower, shall be certified by a registered, professional engineer or
surveyor, and verified by the community’s building inspector to be properly
elevated. The certification and verification shall be provided to the
floodplain administrator.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code § 17-4-1(H) (part))
15.40.770 Minimizing the potential for flood damage.
   Within any area of the city where the floodplain administrator determines
that the land is subject to flooding, including but not limited to the special
flood hazard areas, all development, including substantial improvements to
structures, must meet the following requirements:
   A.   All new and substantially improved structures shall be anchored at
their foundations to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
   B.   All new and substantially improved building construction materials and
utility system equipment shall be resistant to flood damage. Electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment and other service
facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent water from
entering or accumulating within their components during conditions of flooding;
   C.   The construction methods and practices shall be those which minimize
flood damage;
   D.    Multiple occupancy developments, such as subdivisions, shopping
centers, etc., shall have their public utility systems, such as sewer, water,
gas and electric lines, and their associated facilities, located and
constructed in a manner to minimize or eliminate the potential for flood
damage. The developments must be constructed with drainage systems which will
minimize the exposure to flood damage;
   E.   New and replacement water supply and sanitary sewage systems shall be
designed and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems and the discharge from sanitary sewage systems into the
floodwaters;
   F.   Onsite waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding;
   G.   Waste disposal systems shall not be installed wholly or partially in a
floodway;
   H.   Adequate drainage paths shall be constructed around structures on
slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
   I.   The city may approve certain development in Zone AE on the city’s FIRM
which increase the water surface elevation of the base flood by more than one
foot, provided that the city first applies for a conditional FIRM revision,
fulfills the requirements for such a revision as established under the
provisions of 44 C.F.R. § 65.12, and receives the approval of the Federal
Insurance Administrator.
   J.   Notwithstanding any other provisions of 44 C.F.R. § 60.3, a city may
permit encroachments within the adopted regulatory floodway that would result
in an increase in base flood elevations, provided that the city first applies
for a conditional FIRM and floodway revision, fulfills the requirements for
such revisions as established under the provisions of 44 C.F.R. § 65.12, and
receives the approval of the Federal Insurance Administrator.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code § 17-4-1(L))
Article IV. Materials and Equipment Storage Standards
15.40.780 Prohibited storage.
   The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of flooding,
buoyant, flammable, explosive, or could be injurious to human, animal or plant
life is prohibited in special flood hazard areas.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007; prior code
§ 17-5-2.1)
15.40.790 Allowable storage.
   Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not subject to
damage by floods, and if firmly anchored to prevent flotation or if readily
removable from the area within the time available after flood warning.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code § 17-5-2.2)
15.40.800 Standards for recreational vehicles.
   All recreational vehicles placed on site shall:
   A.   Be on site for fewer than one hundred eighty consecutive days,
   B.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. A recreational vehicle is
ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to
the site only by quick disconnect-type utilities and security devices, and has
no permanently attached additions; or
   C.    Meet the permit requirements of this chapter and the elevation,
anchoring, and material requirements for manufactured homes.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007)
   Article V. Floodways
15.40.810 Provisions specific to.
   Locations within special flood hazard areas established in Section
15.40.580 are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters which carry debris, potential
projectiles, and erosion potential, the provisions set out in Sections
15.40.820 through
15.40.840 apply.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code § 17-5-6)
15.40.820 Encroachments prohibited with certain exception.
   Encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements,
and other development, is prohibited within the floodway, unless certification
by a registered, professional engineer or architect is provided, demonstrating
that encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code § 17-5-6.1)
15.40.830 Placement in prohibited.
   The placement of any manufactured home within a floodway is prohibited
except in existing manufactured home parks or subdivisions. Existing
manufactured homes may be replaced as long as the new home is no larger than
the previous home located on the property and meets the elevation requirements
in Section
15.40.760.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code § 17-5-6.2)
15.40.840 Compliance with flood hazard reduction provisions required.
   If Sections
15.40.810 through
15.40.830 are satisfied, all new construction and substantial improvements
shall comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of Sections
15.40.730 through
15.40.770.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code § 17-5-6.3)
Article VI. Standards for Subdivision
15.40.850 Preliminary subdivision proposals.
   All new subdivision proposals and other proposed development (including
proposals for manufactured home parks and subdivisions) shall identify the
flood hazard area and the elevation of the base flood.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007; prior code
§ 17-5-4.1)
15.40.860 Final subdivision plans.
   All new subdivision plans and plans for other proposed development
(including proposals for manufactured home parks and subdivisions), shall
provide on its final subdivision plans the elevation of proposed structure(s)
and pads. If the site is filled above the base flood elevation, the final
lowest floor and grade elevations shall be certified by a registered,
professional engineer, architect, or registered land surveyor, and provided to
the floodplain administrator.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007; prior code
§ 17-5-4.2)
15.40.870 Subdivision proposals in general.
   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to minimize
flood damage. All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007; prior code
§ 17-5-4.3)
15.40.880 Adequate drainage required.
   All subdivision proposals shall be reviewed to assure that adequate drainage
is provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007; prior code
§ 17-5-4.4)
Article VII. Variances and Appeals
15.40.890 Appeals and requests for variances.
   A.   A floodplain review board is hereby established to hear and decide
appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter. The
city of Casa Grande board of adjustment is hereby designated as the floodplain
review board for purposes of this article.
   B.   Any variance request referred to the floodplain review board by the
floodplain board pursuant to Section
15.40.710.B shall be placed upon the next available agenda for which required
public notification can be made, but in no case more than forty-five days from
receipt of the referral. The floodplain review board shall make a decision on
the variance within seventy-five days of referral from the floodplain board.
Failure to meet this requirement shall result in the variance to be deemed
denied.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code § 17-6-1.1)
15.40.900 Administrative error cause for hearing.
   The floodplain review board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged
there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination made by the
floodplain administrator in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code § 17-6-1.2)
15.40.910 Appeal to superior court when.
   Those aggrieved by the decision of the floodplain review board, or any
taxpayer, may appeal the decision of the board to the superior court of Pinal
County. The perfected appeal shall be filed within thirty days of the decision
of the floodplain review board.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code § 17-6-1.3)
15.40.920 Variance criteria.
   The variance criteria set forth in this article are based on the general
principle of zoning law that variances pertain to a piece of property and are
not personal in nature. A variance may be granted for a parcel of property with
physical characteristics so unusual that complying with the requirements of
this chapter would create an exceptional hardship to the applicant or the
surrounding property owners. The characteristics must be unique to the property
and not be shared by adjacent parcels. The unique characteristic must pertain
to the land itself, not to the structure, its inhabitants or the property
owners.
   It is the duty of the city to help protect its citizens from flooding. This
need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of insuring a structure
built below the regulatory flood elevation is so serious that variances from
the flood elevation or from other requirements in the flood ordinance should be
quite rare. The long-term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage
can only be met if variances are strictly limited. Therefore, the variance
guidelines provided in this section are more detailed and contain multiple
provisions that must be met before a variance can be properly granted. The
criteria are designed to screen out those situations in which alternatives
other than a variance are more appropriate.
   In passing upon applications, the floodplain review board shall consider its
directive as set forth above, all technical evaluations, all relevant factors,
standards specified in other sections of the chapter, and:
   A.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
   B.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   C.    The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of the damage on the individual owner;
   D.    The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
   E.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   F.   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
   G.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   H.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
   I.   In time of flood, the safety of access to the property for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
   J.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the floodwaters expected at the site; and
   K.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007; prior code
§ 17-6-1.4)
15.40.930 Granting of variance when.
   A.   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size,
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the regulatory flood level, provided that the elevation and construction
requirements have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-
half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
   B.   Upon consideration of the factors of Section
15.40.920.A thru K, and the purposes of this chapter, the floodplain review
board may attach the conditions to the granting of variances as it deems
necessary to further the purposes of the chapter.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code § 17-6-1.5)
15.40.940 Reserved
15.40.950 Records to be maintained.
   The floodplain administrator shall maintain a record of all variance and
appeal actions, including justification for their issuance.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007; prior code
§ 17-6-1.7)
15.40.960 Exceptions.
   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, upon a determination that the proposed
repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as a historic structure, and the variance is the minimum necessary
to preserve the historic character and design of the structure, without regard
to the procedures set forth in the remainder of this article.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007; prior code
§ 17-6-2.1)
15.40.970 Variances denied when.
   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any increase
in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code § 17-6-2.2)
15.40.980 Variances issued when.
   Variances shall only be issued upon determination that the variance is the
minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; prior code § 17-6-2.3)
15.40.990 Conditions for issuance of variance.
   Variances shall only be issued upon:
   A.   A showing of good sufficient cause;
   B.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant;
   C.   For facilities meeting the definition of “functionally dependent use,”
a showing that the use cannot perform its intended purpose unless it is located
or carried out in close proximity to water; and
   D.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007; prior code
§ 17-6-2.4)
15.40.1000 Written notice of variance issuance required.
   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written notice,
over the signature of a community official, that the structure will be
permitted to be built with a lowest floor elevation below the regulatory flood
elevation, that such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property, and that the issuance of a variance to construct a structure
below the base flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood
insurance up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage. The
notice will also state that the land upon which the variance is granted shall
be ineligible for exchange of state land pursuant to the flood relocation and
land exchange program provided for by A.R.S. § 37-610. A copy of the notice
shall be recorded by the floodplain board in the office of the Pinal County
Recorder, and shall be recorded in manner so that it appears in the chain of
title of the affected parcel of land.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 1 (part), 2019; Ord. 1397.15.21 § 1 (part), 2007; prior code
§ 17-6-2.5)
Chapter 15.42
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT AND DRAINAGE
Sections:
Article I. Definitions
15.42.010   City engineer.
15.42.020   Construction plan.
15.42.030   Detention basin.
15.42.040   Developer.
15.42.050   Development.
15.42.060   Existing grade.
15.42.070   Finish grade.
15.42.080   Geotechnical professional.
15.42.090   Individual.
15.42.100   Irrigation facilities.
15.42.110   Lot.
15.42.120   Lowest floor.
15.42.130   Planning director.
15.42.140   Public works director.
15.42.150   Registered engineer.
15.42.160   Retention basins.
15.42.170   Right-of-way.
15.42.180   Roadway.
15.42.190   Soils engineering.
15.42.200   Standard specifications and details.
15.42.210   Subdivide.
15.42.220   Tract.
Article II. Permits, Reports and Procedural Requirements
15.42.230   General design requirements.
15.42.240   Maintaining historic patterns
15.42.250   Development permit required prior to construction or development.
15.42.260   Drainage report required.
15.42.270   Design and construction standards.
Article III. Standard for Utilities
15.42.280   New and replacement water and sewage systems.
15.42.290   Onsite waste disposal system.
15.42.300   Waste disposal systems.
Article IV. Violation—Penalty
15.42.310   Violation—Penalty
Article I. Definitions
15.42.010 City engineer.
   “City engineer” means the person designated by the public works director as
the city engineer.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 2 (part), 2019)
15.42.020 Construction plan.
   “Construction plan” means the drawings accompanying a subdivision plat or
development project, showing the specific location and design of public and
private improvements to be installed in accordance with the requirements of the
city as a condition of the approval of the subdivision or development.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 2 (part), 2019)
15.42.030 Detention basin.
   “Detention basin” means a facility intended to temporarily hold stormwater
runoff and then discharge the stored stormwater back into the drainage
conveyance system.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 2 (part), 2019)
15.42.040 Developer.
   “Developer” means the individual, firm, corporation, partnership,
association, syndication, trust or other legal entity that initiates the
development of land for commercial, industrial, multifamily or single-family
residential purposes in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 2 (part), 2019)
15.42.050 Development.
   “Development” means any man-made change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or
storage of equipment or materials.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 2 (part), 2019)
15.42.060 Existing grade.
   “Existing grade” means the ground surface prior to grading.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 2 (part), 2019)
15.42.070 Finish grade.
   “Finish grade” means the final grade of the site which conforms to the
approved plan.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 2 (part), 2019)
15.42.080 Geotechnical professional.
   “Geotechnical professional” means a professional experienced and
knowledgeable in the practice of soils engineering and geologic theory.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 2 (part), 2019)
15.42.090 Individual.
   “Individual” means any private individual, tenant, lessee, owner, or any
commercial entity, including but not limited to companies, partnerships, joint
ventures or corporations.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 2 (part), 2019)
15.42.100 Irrigation facilities.
   “Irrigation facilities” means and includes canals, laterals, ditches,
conduits, gates, pumps and allied equipment necessary for the supply, delivery
and drainage or irrigation water and the construction, operation, maintenance
of such.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 2 (part), 2019)
15.42.110 Lot.
   “Lot” means a piece, parcel, plot, tract, or area of land occupied or
capable of being occupied by one or more principal buildings, and the accessory
buildings or uses customarily incidental to them, and including the open spaces
required under this title, and having its principal lot frontage on a street.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 2 (part), 2019)
15.42.120 Lowest floor.
   “Lowest floor” means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s “lowest floor;” provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the non-
elevation design requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 2 (part), 2019)
15.42.130 Planning director.
   “Planning director” means the individual designated by the city manager to
administer the planning and land use regulations of the city.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 2 (part), 2019)
15.42.140 Public works director.
   “Public works director” means the individual designated by the city manager
to administer the city public works department.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 2 (part), 2019)
15.42.150 Registered engineer.
   “Registered engineer” means an engineer registered in the state of Arizona.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 2 (part), 2019)
15.42.160 Retention basin.
   “Retention basin” means a facility that permanently removes a specified
volume of water from the conveyance system.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 2 (part), 2019)
15.42.170 Right-of-way.
   “Right-of-way” means any area dedicated for public use pursuant to any
general or specific plan.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 2 (part), 2019)
15.42.180 Roadway.
   “Roadway” means that portion of a street right-of-way intended for driving
or parking.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 2 (part), 2019)
15.42.190 Soils engineering.
   “Soils engineering” means the application of the principles of soil
mechanics in the investigation, evaluation and design of civil works involving
the use of earth materials, and the inspection and testing of the construction
thereof.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 2 (part), 2019)
15.42.200 Standard specifications and details.
   “Standard specifications and details” means a set of uniform design and
construction specifications approved by the city engineer.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 2 (part), 2019)
15.42.210 Subdivide.
   “Subdivide” means the act of dividing land into two or more parts by
platting, or by metes and bounds description, into tracts of less than thirty-
six acres in any one calendar year, for the purpose of:
   A.   Sale for building purposes;
   B.   Laying out a municipality or any part thereof;
   C.    Adding to a municipality;
   D.    Laying out suburban lots; or
   E.   Re-subdivision.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 2 (part), 2019)
15.42.220 Tract.
   “Tract” means a defined area of land, regardless of size that is intended to
be used for a common purpose such as drainage facility, landscaping, parking,
open space, etc. A “tract” is not intended as a building lot.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 2 (part), 2019)
Article II. Permits, Reports and Procedural Requirements
15.42.230 General design requirements.
   A.   Accommodation of Historic and Developed Flows. Proper and adequate
provision shall be made for disposal or retention of stormwater; this shall
apply equally to development of properties and streets. Generally, the city
requires flows generated by new development to be adequately retained, and
offsite flows to be properly transmitted across the development site. Existing
major watercourses shall be maintained and dedicated as drainage ways. The
type, extent, location and capacity of drainage facilities shall be approved
for the individual development by the city engineer, and shall be constructed
in accordance with standard specifications and details.
   B.   Site Grading. Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive drainage
away from all buildings. Individual lot drainage shall be coordinated with the
general storm drainage pattern for the area. Drainage shall be designed so as
to avoid concentration of storm drainage water from each lot onto adjacent
lots, and shall comply with the requirements of the city’s storm drainage
master plan and drainage policy.
   C.   Completion of Drainage Improvements. No structures shall be issued a
certificate of occupancy, nor subdivision financial security released, until
all drainage facilities have been completed in accordance with the approved
plans.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 2 (part), 2019)
15.42.240 Maintaining historic patterns.
   Rainfall runoff from storms of all return frequencies should enter and
depart from property after its development in substantially the same manner as
under pre-development conditions. Any proposals to modify drainage patterns
must be fully justified by engineering data, which shall demonstrate that there
will be no adverse impacts to surrounding properties, or to the overall city
drainage network, resulting from the proposed modifications.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 2 (part), 2019)
15.42.250 Development permit required prior to construction or development.
   A.   A development permit which includes provisions for the management of
stormwater runoff from the property to be developed shall be obtained before
construction or development begins. The stormwater management plan shall
address how the stormwater created by the development will be retained, and how
the historic upstream flows will be transmitted through the development.
Applications for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished by the
planning director and may include, but not be limited to, plans drawn to scale,
showing the nature, location, dimensions and elevation of the area in question;
in addition, the plans shall show any existing or proposed structures, fill,
storage of materials, and any existing and/or proposed drainage facilities.
   B.   Reports, construction plans, and other data submitted in support of an
application for a permit shall comply with the criteria as set out in Sections
15.42.260 and 15.42.270.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 2 (part), 2019)
15.42.260 Drainage report required.
   When a drainage report is required, it must be prepared and sealed by a
registered engineer, and prepared in accordance with the criteria established
by the city. The purpose of the report is to ensure that the development is
designed to be protected from flooding, to verify that the development will not
improperly divert or increase the stormwater runoff on surrounding properties,
and to provide data supporting the design of facilities to be constructed for
the management of rainfall runoff. Each drainage report must consider rainfall
runoff from storms with a return frequency up to and including a one hundred-
year storm. The types of drainage reports required at the various stages of
land development shall be as follows, unless waived by the city engineer.
   A.    Master Drainage Report.
   1.   A master drainage report is required to accompany the following
development applications:
      a.   Planned area development zone change request;
      b.   Major amendments to existing planned area developments;
      c.   Preliminary plat for multi-family, commercial, or industrial
developments.
   2.   Report Requirements. Master drainage report shall address the following
aspects of the site drainage:
      a.   Onsite Flows. Calculating of the amount of developed flows expected
for each land use based upon the following runoff coefficients:
         i.   Commercial, industrial area: 0.80;
         ii.   Single-family residential: 0.50;
         iii.   Multi-family; apartments; townhomes, attached dwellings,
manufactured home and RV parks: 0.60;
         iv.   Open space: 0.40;
         v.   Agricultural: 0.10.
      b.   Indication of how the developed flows will be retained on site
(i.e., shared or individual basins on each site).
      c.   Indication of how the developed flows from the perimeter and
internal streets will be handled.
      d.   Offsite Flows.
         i.   Identification of the watershed affecting the site.
         ii.   Rainfall values for calculating offsite flows shall be as
follows:
            a)   Drainage areas less than twenty square miles: one hundred-
year, six-hour storm;
            b)   Drainage areas between twenty and one hundred square miles:
one hundred-year, six-hour and one hundred-year, twenty-four-hour storm;
            c)   Drainage areas greater than one hundred square miles: one
hundred-year, twenty-four-hour storm;
         iii.   Calculation of the amount of offsite flows entering the site,
based upon the same runoff coefficients as for onsite developed flows. For
watersheds that are less than one hundred sixty acres tributary to the design
point(s), the design engineer shall perform the hydrologic calculations using
the rational method to estimate runoff.
   Rational Method Runoff Equation (Watersheds 160 Acres or Less):
   Q = C*I*A
   Q = the peak discharge (cubic feet per second) from a given area
   C = a coefficient relating the runoff to rainfall
   I = average rainfall intensity (inches/hour), lasting for a Tc
   Tc = the time of concentration (hours)
   A = drainage area (acres).
   Tc = 11.4L^0.5 * Kb^0.52 * S^-0.31 * I^-0.38
   Tc = time of concentration in hours
   L = length of the longest flow path in miles
   Kb = watershed resistance coefficient
   S = watercourse slope in feet/mile
   I = rainfall intensity in inches/hour
 
   Time of concentration shall not be less than:
   1)   Ten minutes for residential developments
   2)   Five minutes for commercial developments
 
   To estimate the resistance coefficient (Kb) and the adjusted intensity for
the Tc equation, engineers shall utilize Table 3.1, Figure 3.1, and Equation
3.3 of the Drainage Design Manual for Maricopa County, Volume I, Hydrology.
 
         iv.   For watersheds greater than one hundred sixty acres tributary to
the design point(s), the design engineer shall perform the hydrologic
calculations using a rainfall runoff model. Generally, Hydrologic Engineering
Center (HEC-1) of U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, or Drainage Design Management
System for Windows (DDMSW) of Flood Control District of Maricopa County (FCDMC)
is to be used. Alternative methods of a similar nature may be used when
approved by the city engineer.
         v.   Indication of where the offsite flows currently enter and exit
the site.
         vi.   Indication of how the offsite flows will be carried across the
site post-development.
         vii.   Indication of the location with the city’s master drainage
report study.
         viii.   Indication of compliance with the approved drainage plan of
adjacent developments upstream and downstream of the proposed project.
      e.   Special Flood Hazard Area.
         i.   Indication of the location of the site on the appropriate FEMA
map.
         ii.   Indication of any special flood hazard area impacting the site.
         iii.   Description of any modification proposed to special flood
hazard areas.
   B.   Preliminary Drainage Report.
   1.   A preliminary drainage report shall be required to accompany the
following development applications:
      a.   Site plan/final development plan;
      b.   Preliminary subdivision plat for all subdivisions.
   2.   Report Requirements. Preliminary drainage report shall address the
following aspects of the site drainage:
      a.   How the drainage design concepts as set forth in the approved master
drainage report or master drainage study for Casa Grande will be implemented.
      b.   Preliminary design or method of transmitting offsite flows through
the site. And indication of how the natural offsite drainage enters flows
through and exits the site.
      c.   Preliminary design for retention of all developed flows generated by
the site development. Developed flows shall be calculated based upon the
following run-off coefficients:
   Retention calculations shall be submitted as follows:
   Vr = D (A) (Cw)
       12
   A = Area (square feet or acres)
   Vr = Volume required to be retained (cubic feet or acre feet)
   D = One hundred-year, one-hour rainfall (inches) = 2.39
   Cw = Runoff factor for tributary areas (weighted factors may be required for
multiple retention areas and/or special conditions as determined by the city
engineer. The weighted runoff coefficient will be estimated by:
                  Cw = A1C1+A2C2+... +AnCn
                     A1 +A 2 +... +A n
   Typical runoff factors:
   Buildings, parking lots and similar impervious surfaces: 0.95
   Landscape, retention areas open space and undeveloped vacant areas: 0.40
   Single-family (lots 20,000 square feet and below): 0.65
   Single-family (lots greater than 20,000 square feet): 0.53
      d.   Calculation of developed flows based upon the following rainfall
events:
         i.   All hydrologic models used for flood control purposes within the
city of Casa Grande shall use the NOAA Atlas 14 (version 4.0 or higher). If the
storm runoff flows onto the property to be subdivided from adjacent properties,
drainage area, calculated peak flows, retention volume requirements and other
pertinent runoff data shall be designed to a one hundred-year, two-hour
rainfall event. If the flow is in a defined channel, the channel must be
improved to carry a one hundred-year flow with a minimum freeboard of one foot.
         ii.   Curbed streets shall be designed and constructed to carry the
stormwater runoff from a ten-year storm between curbs.
      e.   Drainage and grading plan that contains the following minimum
information:
         i.   Show all existing and proposed storm drainage facilities, such as
retention basins, catch basins, scuppers, curb and gutter, dry wells, and storm
drain pipes, on the grading plans, and identified by type and size.
         ii.   Show all existing irrigation facilities, lakes and other water
features. Use arrows to indicate stormwater flow patterns.
         iii.   Show all existing and proposed buildings, grass areas, concrete
or dessert landscape and other significant structures to remain.
         iv.   Show existing and finished grade elevations using contour lines
or spot elevations.
         v.   Cross sections must be shown the relative elevation of the
building, parking, and retention basins.
         vi.   Cross sections must be shown for all retention basins with the
elevations of the top of slope, bottom of the basin, and the side-slope called
out. The depth of ponding in the basin, due to retention of the one hundred-
year, two-hour storm event must also be shown on the retention basin cross
section.
         vii.   Show cross section of any drainage channel.
         viii.   No portion of a retention basin shall encroach within the
public utility easement (PUE).
         ix.   The grading plan of all retention basin must show:
            a)   The tract number or designation. The same retention basin
designation as shown in the drainage report.
            b)   Show outfall for all individual basins.
            c)   Show ultimate outfall for entire development.
            d)   Show volume required/provided per drainage report.
            e)   Contours shall be one-foot-minimum elevations.
            f)   The design one hundred-year, high-water elevation, with one
foot of freeboard and water elevation.
         x.   Show construction details for the following items, but not
limited to:
            a)   Catch basins and connector pipes, with profile and showing
hydraulic grade line.
            b)   Scuppers and spillway, showing a longitudinal section, with
elevations and slopes.
            c)   Storm drains, with profile and showing hydraulic grade line.
            d)   Drainage swales, with grade and spot elevations.
         xi.   Show the general notes (construction inspection and testing) and
grading notes; please refer to city of Casa Grande standard plan notes.
         xii.   Show city engineer’s approval block and as-built certification
block on the cover sheet, and show north arrow, scale, and legend on all
sheets.
   C.   Final Drainage Report.
   1.   A final drainage report shall be required to accompany the following
development applications:
      a.   Final subdivision plats that contain shared drainage facilities.
      b.   Site development permit.
      c.   Public improvement permit that involves the construction of new
streets or drainage facilities.
   2.    Reports Requirements. Final drainage report shall address the
following aspects of the site drainage.
      a.    Final drainage reports are required for specific individual
developments to ensure compliance with the approved master and preliminary
drainage reports for the subject property, and to identify specific drainage
facilities needed to serve the parcel.
      b.   Sufficient information to determine the path of the water entering
and leaving the project property under pre-development and post-development
conditions. Sufficient information to show that proposed conditions do not pond
water on adjacent properties or discharge at erosive velocities above pre-
project conditions.
      c.   Final design or method of transmitting offsite flows across the
property (if any). Drainage area, calculated peak flows, and other pertinent
runoff data must be presented. Specific calculation of runoff factor (weighted
factor, Cw) is required. If the flow is in a defined channel, the channel must
be improved to carry a one hundred-year flow with a minimum freeboard of one
foot.
      d.   A drainage map that shows the following:
         i.   The discharges at points of concentration and clearly identifies
the existing drainage system.
         ii.   Floodplain area (if any) should be delineated on a drainage map.
         iii.   Typical cross sections of all streets and average slope.
         iv.   Establish a bench mark (BM) of known or assumed elevation to
which every other elevation is referenced. Show existing grades by a contour
lines, especially at property lines and back of sidewalks, and show enough
finished grades that drainage direction are clearly evident.
      e.   Calculation for the proposed stormwater retention basin, showing
storage volume required and retention volume provided. Analysis confirming
basin draining within thirty-six hours of the end of the design precipitation
event is required.
      f.   Modification to sites which result in increases to unretained
developed flows will be required to address drainage retention requirements on
the entire site. Exceptions to this requirement may be granted by the city
engineer in cases where the lack of retention of existing developed flows are
determined to pose no significant flooding problems to surrounding properties
or streets.
      g.   The manner in which the developed flows associated with the adjacent
streets will be retained on site or within a shared basins or other appropriate
outfall.
      h.   The amount and manner in which stormwater will be carried in
adjacent street. The maximum depth for water flowing in any street shall be
eight inches during the peak runoff from a one hundred-year frequency storm.
The above requirements imply that in some cases water may flow deeper than
normal vertical curb height, and may flow for a short distance over a sidewalk
or other back-of-curb areas, but the flow of the water shall always be confined
to the road right-of-way or to drainage easements. Particular care must be
taken in street sag locations to ensure that these requirements are met. Catch
basins, scuppers, or similar facilities, together with the necessary channels,
must be provided at appropriate locations to remove water flowing in the
streets so as not to exceed the above-described depth limit.
      i.   Specify the parties that will be responsible for maintenance of all
constructed drainage facilities.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 2 (part), 2019)
15.42.270 Design and construction standards.
   A.   General Requirements.
   1.   The city will not approve any development proposal which does not make
adequate provisions for stormwater channels and/or basins. The stormwater
drainage system shall be separate and independent of any sanitary sewer system.
Storm drainage shall be accommodated in retention basins unless otherwise
indicated by the city engineer.
   2.   All provisions for drainage control shall comply with the master
drainage study for the city of Casa Grande. Drainage design shall also comply
with drainage policy as promulgated by the city engineer.
   3.   If offsite flows are to be conveyed in a defined channel across
development, the channel must be designed to carry a one hundred-year, two-hour
storm, with a minimum freeboard of one foot.
   4.   Where a development is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way,
channel, or stream, it is desirable that the drainage be maintained by an open
channel, with landscaped banks and adequate width for maximum potential volume
of flow. The watercourse channel shall be contained within a drainage easement
dedicated to the city if not contained within a right-of-way. The easement
shall be reflected on a subdivision plat or map of dedication.
   5.   The city shall not be responsible for the design, performance,
operation or maintenance of the retention basin, channels or other drainage
facilities, unless the maintenance is specifically accepted in conjunction with
the dedication, and acceptance of, the drainage easement or drainage tract to
the city.
   6.   Where a proposed drainage system will discharge water onto adjacent
private land, outside of the historic flow location, a drainage easement for
the water must be secured.
   B.   Retention Requirements.
   1.    Location and Design.
      a.   Stormwater retention and all retention basin capacity calculations
shall comply with the master drainage study for the city of Casa Grande as well
the city’s drainage policy.
      b.   All stormwater from a one hundred-year storm of two-hour duration,
as established by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA
14), shall be retained on site. Additionally, stormwater generated by the
street improvements located between the street centerline and the property
boundary adjacent to the site shall be retained within the site or the adjacent
right-of-way. The city engineer may approve other means to handle the developed
flows generated from street improvements.
      c.   Developments may provide either shared retention basins and/or
individual onsite retention for each parcel.
      d.   Residential developments may use onsite retention basins under the
following conditions.
         i.   The basin is designed to contain the developed onsite and
adjacent half-street flows generated by a one hundred-year storm with two-hour
duration.
         ii.   Provisions shall be made that ensure the onsite basins are
maintained and preserved in perpetuity by the individual property owners.
      e.   Shared retention basins shall be protected from further development
by a recorded drainage easement.
      f.   Lakes or ponds used for stormwater collection will be required to
meet all retention basin requirements specified herein, except for the water
depth, drainage time, and side slopes below the normal water level.
      g.   Stormwater detention and retention facilities shall be designed and
constructed according to the procedures and criteria established in this
chapter, No detention or retention basin shall retain standing water longer
than thirty-six hours, if the basin has not been designed and constructed to be
a permanent body of water, with appropriate health, safety and water quality
measures for such a body of water.
      h.   A maximum of fifty percent of the required retention can be held
upon asphalt, concrete or other hard surface except in a special situation and
with permission of the city engineer. The maximum depth of water on the hard
surface shall not exceed eight inches.
      i.   Shallow pit percolation tests shall be performed by a licensed
geotechnical professional in retention areas to determine natural percolation.
Test results shall be reflected within the preliminary or final drainage report
prior to approval of drainage plans. Dry wells are permitted to drain surface
retention areas only when no other means of disposal is available. Infiltration
into the dry well cannot be considered to reduce the size of the retention
area. The property owner of record shall be responsible for the design,
performance, operation or maintenance of dry wells used with onsite retention.
A percolation test must be carried out on the dry well before it is considered
acceptable. The percolation test results are to be filed with the city
engineer.
      j.   Maximum Depth. Unless approved otherwise by the city engineer, all
retention basins shall have a design capacity to preclude a water depth in
excess of three feet resulting from a one hundred-year, two-hour storm. The
depth of retention shall be measured from nearest adjacent top of curb. Unless
otherwise specially approved by the city engineer, all retention basins shall
have at least one foot of freeboard above the maximum water elevation.
Unauthorized access should be physically restricted (i.e., by fencing or other
appropriate means) where basin depth is greater than four feet and any side
slopes steeper than four to one.
      k.   Side slopes shall conform to the following slope-depth ratios:
         i.   First four feet - 4:1 maximum slope.
         ii.   Depth beyond four feet - 8:1 maximum slope.
      l.   Exceptions to minimum slope requirements will be considered when
innovative and aesthetically pleasing design features are presented and public
safety is not compromised.
      m.   Retention basins may be wholly or partially located within the
right-of-way, subject to the following conditions:
         i.   It is determined that the retention basin will not interfere with
the current or future use of the right-of-way by the city for public purposes.
         ii.   The basin is incorporated into the landscape design for the
development.
         iii.   The private development is responsible for the maintenance of
the retention basin.
         iv.   The private development agrees, in writing, to hold the city
harmless from any liability associated with the basin.
         v.   The private development agrees, in writing, to relocate the basin
out of the right-of-way at their expense, if it is determined by the city that
the basin is interfering with the city’s use of the right-of-way for public
purposes.
   2.   Retention Basin Overflow.
      a.   The site shall be designed so that all runoff greater than the
design storm is routed to the site’s ultimate outlet(s) (the point(s) from
which runoff exits the site.)
      b.   The overflow outlet shall generally be a swale or similar
conveyance, with appropriate erosion-resistance surface leading to the ultimate
outlet, except that drives and roadways may, upon approval of the city
engineer, be used as means of conveying overflows to the ultimate outlet.
      c.   The invert of the overflow channel shall coincide with the elevation
of the maximum volume provided. The overflow channel shall be a minimum one-
foot deep, and the maximum depth of flow shall be one-half foot. At least one-
half-foot freeboard shall be provided above the depth of the overflow channel.
   3.   Maintenance.
      a.   All retention basins shall be privately owned and maintained, with
the exception of retention basins dedicated to and accepted by the city. It
shall be the responsibility of the developer to establish a system acceptable
to the city to provide perpetual operation, maintenance and replacement of all
retention areas. This maintenance system may be the formation of a homeowners’
association or some other type of maintenance entity acceptable to the city.
      b.   In no event shall stormwater stand in the retention basins longer
than thirty-six hours.
      c.   In situations where a basin will not drain and the water needs to be
pumped out, it may be drained into existing storm drainage lines, irrigation
facilities, or streets, when approved by the city engineer.
   4.   Right of the City to Drain Basin When Owner Fails to Maintain.
      a.   It is unlawful for any person owning or controlling a retention
basin to permit stormwater to stand therein longer than thirty-six hours. In
addition to any penalty provided by law, should the persons owning or
controlling any privately-owned and maintained basin fail, neglect or refuse to
drain the retention basin within thirty-six hours, it is the right of the city,
upon the authorization of the director of public works, or his appointed agent,
to enter upon the privately-owned retention basin property and take such action
as may reasonably be necessary to drain the basin. The draining of the basin
shall be at the expense of the owner or person controlling the basin.
      b.   Assessment of Drainage Costs by the City. Upon completion of the
work, the director of public works shall prepare or cause to be prepared, a
verified statement of account of the actual cost of draining of the basin, the
date the work was completed, and the street address and the legal description
of the property on which the work was done, including five percent for
inspection and other incidental costs in connection therewith, and shall serve
a duplicate copy of the verified statement upon the person owning or
controlling the property.
      c.   Appeal to City—Terms and Conditions. The owner or person controlling
the property shall have thirty days, from the date of service upon him of the
assessment, to appeal in writing to the city council from the amount of the
assessment as contained in the verified statement. If an appeal is not filed
with the city council within the thirty-day period, then the amount of the
assessment, as determined by the director of public works, shall become final
and binding. If an appeal is taken, the city council shall, at a regular
meeting, hear and determine the appeal and may affirm the amount of the
assessment, modify the amount thereof, or determine that no assessment at all
shall be made. The decision of the city council shall be final and binding upon
all persons.
      d.   Service of Notice to Property Owner. Notice shall be mailed to the
owner or person controlling the property, by certified or registered mail, to
the address to which the tax bills for the property were last mailed.
      e.   Lien for Drainage of Basin When. If no appeal is taken from the
amount of the assessment, or if an appeal is taken and the city council has
affirmed or modified the amount of the assessment, the original assessment or
the assessment as so modified shall be recorded in the office of the county
recorder, and from the date of its recording, shall be a lien on the lot or
tract of land until paid. The liens shall be subject and inferior to the lien
for general taxes and to all prior recorded mortgages and encumbrances of
record. A sale of the property to satisfy a lien obtained under the provisions
of this section shall be made upon judgment of foreclosure or order of sale.
The city shall have the right to bring an action to enforce the lien in a court
of competent jurisdiction at any time after the recording of the assessment,
but failure to enforce the lien by such action shall not affect its validity.
The recorded assessment shall be prima facie evidence of the truth of all
matters recited thereof. A prior assessment for the purposes provided in this
section shall not be a bar to a subsequent assessment or assessments for such
purposes, and any number of liens on the same lot or tract of land may be
enforced in the same action.
   C.   Bridge and Culvert Crossing for Private Drives.
   1.   The street crossing should be designed to convey the one hundred-year,
two-hour storm under the road.
   2.   The construction of a channel crossing must not cause the diversion of
drainage flows, except when that diversion is part of an approved plan for
modification of drainage patterns.
   D.    Subsurface Drainage Within Street Right-of-way.
   1.   Subsurface drainage systems constructed within the public right-of-way
shall be discouraged. Where storm sewers are required, the construction cost
shall be borne by the developer, and shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with standards approved by the city engineer. The city will assume
maintenance cost for storm sewer systems constructed within public right-of-way
upon dedication and acceptance.
   2.   All storm drain pipe installed in alleys or streets under curb, gutter
and pavement shall be constructed of rubber-gasket, reinforced, concrete pipe,
capable of withstanding H-22 highway loads or an alternate as approved by the
city engineer.
   E.   Storm Drainage Design for Streets.
   1.   Streets and gutters may be used to transport storm drainage to
retention basins unless otherwise indicated by the city engineer. It is
expected that streets will carry water from adjacent property and from local
areas, but they are not to be used as major water carriers in lieu of natural
washes or man-made channels. Street runoff may be allowed, at the discretion of
the city engineer, in those circumstances where stormwater can be quickly
conveyed to established drainage facilities.
   2.   The design for stormwater carried in the streets shall be in accordance
with the following.
      a.   Calculate street/gutter flow and velocity by using the modified
Manning’s equation in Section 3 of the Drainage Manual for Maricopa County,
Volume II, Hydraulics.
      b.   Calculate catch basin and scupper sizes according to Section 3 of
the Drainage Manual for Maricopa County, Volume II, Hydraulics, and/or FHWA
HEC-12 or HEC-22.
   3.   Flow of the stormwater shall always be confined to the road right-of-
way or to drainage easements.
   4.   Flows from local streets across any parkway, arterial, or collector
streets are not allowed for ten-year-frequency-storm flows. However, cross-
street flows are acceptable on local streets.
   5.   Inverted crowns within public streets and roads are not allowed.
   6.   Street drainage design shall not increase runoff onto adjacent
properties. Parkway, arterial, and collector streets shall not direct surface
runoff onto local roadways.
   7.   Acceptable street drainage facilities include but are not limited to:
      a.   Curb-opening catch basin constructed to Maricopa Association of
Governments (MAG) standard details or approved alternatives.
      b.   Grated inlets within the public rights-of-way require approval of
the public works department and shall be constructed in accordance Maricopa
Association of Governments (MAG) standard construction detail 537. All grates
must be rated H-20 traffic loading and for bicycle traffic.
      c.   Under-sidewalk scupper constructed to MAG standard details or
approved alternatives.
         i.   Curbs constructed to Maricopa Association of Governments (MAG)
standard detail 220-1/220-2 or approved alternatives.
         ii.   Outflow pipe head walls with handrails constructed to Maricopa
Association of Governments (MAG) standard detail 501-3 or approved
alternatives.
         iii.   Culverts constructed to ADOT Highways Division Structures
Section “B” standard details (31-002; June 1992).
   F.   Channels.
   1.   Where the capacity of the street section has been exceeded, the
stormwater shall be diverted to a drainage channel that shall then route the
runoff to either a retention basin or to the ultimate outlet for the drainage
area or the project site.
   2.   In general, drainage channels shall be constructed of materials that
will prevent erosion of the side slopes and shall be integrated into the design
of the projects.
   3.   Channels shall be designed with adequate width and depth for maximum
potential volume of flow.
   4.   Channels shall be designed so as to avoid erosion of the soils. The
applicant shall provide information, prepared by a licensed civil engineer, of
the maximum allowable velocity that can occur without the initiation of erosion
in the channel(s). Drop structures shall be added as necessary to achieve the
slopes required to maintain permissible velocities.
   5.   All the channels shall be contained within drainage easement of the
appropriate width.
   6.   All channels shall be maintained per the approved plan by the property
owner, unless specifically accepted by the city for maintenance.
   7.   Existing channels or watercourses shall not be diverted or relocated
without specific consent of the directly impacted downstream property.
   G.   Channels under streets.
   1.   The crossing structure requirements listed below will normally apply;
however, deviations from these requirements may be approved by the city
engineer, with a finding that they are appropriate given the type of
development or the nature of the terrain.
   2.   Local and minor collector streets shall have a culvert or bridge
capable of carrying all of the peak flow of runoff from a two-year, one-hour
storm beneath the roadway, and also capable of carrying enough of the peak flow
of runoff from a ten-year, one-hour storm beneath the roads so that the portion
of the flow over the road is no more than six inches deep.
   3.   Major collector and major or minor arterial streets shall have a
culvert or bridge capable of carrying all of the peak flow of runoff from a
ten-year, one-hour storm beneath the roadway, and also capable of carrying
enough of the peak flow of runoff from a twenty-five-year, one-hour storm so
that the portion of the flow over the road is no more than six inches deep.
   4.   Watercourse crossings for roads shall be designed so that all lots and
structures within a development will be accessible from the boundary of that
development by at least one route during the period of peak flow by runoff from
a one hundred-year, two-hour storm. The boundary shall include any adjacent
street or streets. Accessibility will be considered to exist if it can be
demonstrated by the engineer that, at the time of the peak flow, the depth of
flow over the road will be no greater than eight inches.
   5.   Regardless of the size of the culvert or bridge, the street crossing
should be designed to convey the one hundred-year-storm runoff flow under and/
or over the road to the area downstream of the crossing to which the flow would
have gone in the absence of the street crossing. The construction of a channel
crossing must not cause the diversion of drainage flows, except when that
diversion is part of an approved plan for modification of drainage patterns.
   H.   Lowest Permissible Finish Floor Elevation. For structures in areas
designated as flood hazard Zone X, the elevation of the lowest floor shall be
constructed at an elevation a minimum of fourteen inches above the high point
of natural ground within the area bound by a ten-foot perimeter offset from the
structure, or fourteen inches above the top of curb elevation, as measured at
the lowest portion of the adjacent street.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 2 (part), 2019)
Article III. Standards for Utilities
15.42.280 New and replacement water and sewage systems.
   All new and replacement water supply and sanitary sewage systems shall be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system
and discharge from systems into floodwaters.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 2 (part), 2019)
15.42.290 Onsite waste disposal system.
   Onsite waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to them
or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 2 (part), 2019)
15.42.300 Waste disposal systems.
   Waste disposal systems shall not be installed wholly or partially in a
floodway, unless special measures are taken to ensure that the sewer main will
be floodproof.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 2 (part), 2019)
Article IV. Violation—Penalty
15.42.310 Violation—Penalty.
   Any and all persons who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter
or fail to comply therewith, or who shall fail to comply with any lawful order
or regulation made thereunder, shall severally for each and every violation and
noncompliance respectively, forfeit and pay a fine of not less than fifty
dollars, nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars, and/or be imprisoned not to
exceed the time of four months for each offense, the violation constituting a
Class 2 misdemeanor under the criminal code of the laws of the state of
Arizona. In addition, the costs of any such action may be imposed at the
discretion of the court. The imposition of one penalty for any violation of
this title shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all
such persons shall be required to correct or remedy the violations and defects
within a reasonable time; and each day that the prohibited condition is not
corrected or remedied shall constitute a separate offense; and the court shall
impose a fine on a per-diem basis for each day that the violation is
maintained. Application of the above penalty shall not be held to preclude the
forced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Ord. 1397.15.22 § 2 (part), 2019)
Chapter 15.44
MISCELLANEOUS CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS
Sections:
15.44.010   Required setback from canal.
15.44.020   Water main specifications.
15.44.030   Placement of utilities along alleys.
15.44.040   Tearing up of street—Restoration to prior condition required.
15.44.010 Required setback from canal.
   Any building constructed, repaired or remodeled shall be set back a distance
of at least ten feet from the centerline of any canal; provided, that the term
“canal” does not include laterals.
(Prior code § 9-6-1)
15.44.020 Water main specifications.
   A.   Wherever the word street appears in this section, it shall also be
taken to mean an alley.
   B.   All water mains laid or placed within the city by any utility company,
corporation, firm, or person shall be of the following size and manner:
   1.   All water mains in and along the streets of the business section of the
district of the city shall not be less than eight inches in diameter;
   2.   Water mains in and along any of the streets in the residential sections
of the city shall be not less than six inches in diameter;
   3.   Connections made and pipes laid from the main over to a property line
shall be at such distance apart as to accommodate and serve each lot along the
street or water main;
   4.   All water mains laid in and along any paved streets shall be laid under
and along the sidewalk of the street.
(Prior code § 9-6-2)
15.44.030 Placement of utilities along alleys.
   All water mains, pipe lines of any description, telephone, telegraph,
electric light poles, cables or conduits, gas lines or other lines of any kind,
shall be placed, laid or erected in, along and through alleys; provided, that
in through blocks, where there are no alleys, such water mains, pipe lines,
telephone, telegraph poles, cables or conduits, or gas lines, may be placed in
and along the streets around the block where there are no alleys.
(Prior code § 9-6-3)
15.44.040 Tearing up of street—Restoration to prior condition required.
   Whenever a utility company, corporation, firm or person shall lay, place, or
erect any water main, electric light, telephone line, cable, conduit or other
pipe line of any description across or along any street or alley where it is
necessary to tear up or remove any part of the paving, sidewalk, curb or gutter
for the purpose of laying, erecting or placing any water main, electric light
or telephone line, cable, conduit or other pipe line, the same shall be
repaired, replaced, and put in the same condition as the paving, sidewalk, curb
or gutter was before the tearing up or cutting across same.
(Prior code § 9-6-4)
Chapter 15.48
OUTDOOR LIGHT CONTROL*
Sections:
15.48.010   Purpose of provisions.
15.48.020   Conformance with applicable codes required.
15.48.030   Provisions nonrestrictive—Approved materials and methods in
compliance.
15.48.040   Definitions.
15.48.050   Shielding required.
15.48.060   Filtration required when.
15.48.070   Shielding and filtering requirements.
15.48.080   Searchlights prohibited.
15.48.090   Recreational facility lighting restricted.
15.48.100   Unshielded outdoor illumination prohibited when.
15.48.110   Installation of mercury vapor fixtures prohibited.
15.48.120   Permanent and special exemptions.
15.48.130   Application to install outdoor lighting required.
15.48.140   Application contents.
15.48.150   Permit issuance.
15.48.160   Amendment to permit when.
15.48.170   Request for temporary exemption.
15.48.180   Appeal for temporary exemption.
15.48.190   Violation—Penalty.
*Editor's Note:
Chapter 15.48 consists of Ordinance 911, adopted May 16, 1983 and revised
February 23, 1990)
15.48.010 Purpose of provisions.
   This chapter is intended to restrict the permitted use of outdoor artificial
illuminating devices emitting undesirable rays into the night sky which have a
detrimental effect on astronomical observations.
(Ord. 911 § 1.01, 1983)
15.48.020 Conformance with applicable codes required.
   A.   All outdoor artificial illuminating devices shall be installed in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, Title 17 of this code and any
building ordinances which may hereinafter be enacted, as applicable.
   B.   Where any provisions of any of the Arizona State statutes or any
federal law or any companion of the city ordinance comparatively conflicts with
the requirements of this outdoor light control chapter, the most restrictive
shall govern.
(Ord. 911 § 1.02, 1983)
15.48.030 Provisions nonrestrictive—Approved materials and methods in
compliance.
   The provisions of this chapter are not intended to prevent the use of any
material or method of installation not specifically prescribed by this chapter;
provided, any such alternate has been approved. The city zoning inspector may
approve any such alternate provided he finds that the proposed design, material
or method:
   A.   Provides approximate equivalence to those specific requirements of this
chapter; or
   B.   Is otherwise satisfactory and complies with the intent of this chapter.
(Ord. 911 § 1.03, 1983)
15.48.040 Definitions.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined as set out
in this section.
   “Individual” means any private individual, tenant, lessee, owner, or any
commercial entity including but not limited to companies, partnerships, joint
ventures or corporations.
   “Installed” means the initial installation of outdoor light fixtures as
defined in this section, following the effective date of the ordinance codified
in this chapter, but shall not apply to those outdoor light fixtures installed
prior to such date.
   “Outdoor light fixtures” means and includes outdoor artificial illuminating
devices, outdoor fixtures, lamps and other devices, permanent or portable, used
for illumination or advertisement. Such devices shall include, but are not
limited to search, spot, or flood lights for:
   A.   Buildings and structures;
   B.   Recreational areas;
   C.   Parking lot lighting;
   D.   Landscape lighting;
   E.   Billboards and other signage (advertising and other);
   F.   Street lighting.
   This chapter shall not apply to single-family residences unless a single
illuminating device exceeds one hundred fifty watts.
(Ord. 911 §§ 2.01—2.03, 1983)
15.48.050 Shielding required.
   A.   All exterior illuminating devices, except those exempt from this
chapter and those regulated by Section
15.48.100 shall be fully or partially shielded as required by Section
15.48.070.
   B.   “Fully shielded” means that those fixtures shall be shielded in such a
manner that light rays emitted by the fixture, either directly from the lamp or
indirectly from the fixture, are projected below a horizontal plane running
through the lowest point on the fixture where light is emitted.
   C.   “Partially shielded” means that those fixtures shall be shielded in
such a manner that the bottom edge of the shield is below the plane centerline
of the light source (lamp), minimizing light above the horizontal.
(Ord. 911 § 3.01, 1983)
15.48.060 Filtration required when.
   A.   Those outdoor light fixtures requiring a filter in Section
15.48.070 shall be equipped with a filter whose transmission is less than five
percent total emergent flux at wavelengths less than three thousand nine
hundred angstroms. Total emergent flux is defined as that between three
thousand and seven thousand angstrom units.
   B.   It is recommended that existing mercury vapor fixtures shall be
equipped with a filter whose transmission is less than ten percent total
emergent flux at wavelengths less than four thousand four hundred angstroms.
Total emergent flux is defined as that between three thousand and seven
thousand angstrom units.
   C.   Low pressure sodium lamps are the preferred lamp for minimizing adverse
effects on astronomical observations.
(Ord. 911 § 3.02, 1983)
15.48.070 Shielding and filtering requirements.
   The requirements for shielding and filtering light emissions from outdoor
light fixtures shall be as set forth in
Table 15.48.070, codified at the end of this chapter.
(Ord. 911 § 3.03, 1983)
15.48.080 Searchlights prohibited.
   The operation of searchlights for advertising purposes within the city
limits is prohibited except as provided for in
Chapter 15.24 of this title.
(Ord. 911 § 4.01, 1983)
15.48.090 Recreational facility lighting restricted.
   No outdoor recreational facility, public or private, shall be illuminated by
nonconforming means after eleven p.m. except to conclude a specific
recreational or sporting event or any other activity conducted at a ball park,
outdoor amphitheater, arena, or similar facility in progress to eleven p.m.
(Ord. 911 § 4.02, 1983)
15.48.100 Unshielded outdoor illumination prohibited when.
   The unshielded outdoor illumination of any building, landscaping, signing or
other purpose, is prohibited except with incandescent fixtures less than one
hundred fifty watts.
(Ord. 911 § 4.03, 1983)
15.48.110 Installation of mercury vapor fixtures prohibited.
   The installation of mercury vapor fixtures is prohibited effective ninety
days after the date of adoption of the ordinance codified in this chapter.
(Ord. 911 § 4.04, 1983)
15.48.120 Permanent and special exemptions.
   The following are permanent exemptions to the provisions of this chapter.
   A.   Nonconforming Fixtures. All outdoor fixtures existing and fully
installed prior to the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter
may remain “nonconforming” indefinitely; provided, however, that no change in
use, replacement, structural alteration, or restoration after abandonment of
outdoor light fixtures shall be made unless it thereafter conforms to the
provisions of these regulations.
   B.   Fossil Fuel Light. Fossil fuel light produces directly or indirectly by
the combustion of natural gas or other utility-type fossil fuels.
   C.   Federal and State Facilities. Those facilities and lands owned,
operated or protected by the U.S. Federal Government or the state of Arizona
are exempted by law from all requirements of this chapter. Voluntary compliance
with the intent of this chapter at those facilities is encouraged.
   D.   Special Exemption. The zoning inspector may grant a special exemption
to the requirements of Section
15.48.070 only upon a written finding that there are extreme geographic or
geometric conditions warranting the exemption and that there are no conforming
fixtures that would suffice.
(Ord. 911 § 5.01 through 5.04, 1983)
15.48.130 Application to install outdoor lighting required.
   A.   Any individual applying for a building or use permit under Title 17 of
this code intending to install outdoor lighting fixtures shall as a part of the
application submit evidence that the proposed work will comply with this
chapter.
   B.   All other individuals intending to install outdoor lighting fixtures
shall submit an application to the zoning inspector providing evidence that the
proposed will comply with this chapter.
   C.   Utility companies entering into a duly approved contract with the city
in which they agree to comply with the provisions of these regulations, shall
be exempt from applying for and obtaining a permit for the installation of
outdoor light fixtures, including residential security lighting.
(Ord. 911 § 6.01, 1983)
15.48.140 Application contents.
   A.   The submission shall contain but shall not necessarily be limited to
the following, all or part of which may be part of or in addition to the
information required elsewhere in Title 17 upon application for the required
permit:
   1.   Plans indicating the location on the premises, and the type of
illuminating devices, fixtures, lamps, supports, other devices, etc.;
   2.   Description of illuminating devices, fixtures, lamps, supports and
other devices, etc. This description may include but is not limited to,
manufacturers catalog cuts, and drawings (including sections where required).
   B.    The above required plans and descriptions shall be sufficiently
complete to enable the city zoning inspector to readily determine whether
compliance with the requirements of this chapter will be secured. If such plans
and descriptions cannot enable this ready determination, by reason of the
nature or configuration of the devices, fixtures or lamps proposed, the
applicant shall submit evidence of compliance by certified test reports as
performed by a recognized testing lab.
(Ord. 911 § 6.02, 1983)
15.48.150 Permit issuance.
   Upon compliance with the requirements of this chapter, the zoning inspector
shall issue a permit for installation of the outdoor lighting fixtures, to be
installed as in the approved application. In the event the application is part
of the building permit application under the zoning regulations, the issuance
of the building permit will be made if the applicant is in compliance with this
chapter as well as the other requirements for issuance under the zoning
regulations. Appeal procedures of the zoning regulations for decisions of the
zoning inspector shall apply.
(Ord. 911 § 6.03, 1983)
15.48.160 Amendment to permit when.
   Should the applicant desire to substitute outdoor light fixtures or lamps
after a permit has been issued, the applicant must submit all changes to the
zoning inspector for approval, with adequate information to assure compliance
with this chapter.
(Ord. 911 § 6.04, 1983)
15.48.170 Request for temporary exemption.
   A.   Any individual as defined herein may submit a written request on a form
prepared by the planning and zoning department to the zoning inspector for a
“temporary exemption” to the requirements of this chapter, such exemption to be
valid for thirty days, renewable at the discretion of the zoning inspector. The
written request must include:
   1.   Specific exemptions requested;
   2.   Type and use of exterior light involved;
   3.   Duration of time for requested exemption;
   4.   Type of lamp and calculated lumens;
   5.   Total wattage of lamp or lamps;
   6.   Proposed location of exterior light;
   7.   Previous temporary exemptions, if any;
   8.   Physical size of exterior light and type of shielding provided.
   B.   In addition to the above data, the zoning inspector may request any
additional information which would enable him to make a reasonable evaluation
of the request for temporary exemption.
(Ord. 911 § 7.01, 1983)
15.48.180 Appeal for temporary exemption.
   The zoning inspector, within five days from the date of the properly
completed request for temporary exemption, shall approve or reject in writing
the request. If rejected, the individual making the request shall have the
right of appeal to the appropriate board of adjustment for review pursuant to
the procedures applicable to any other appeal of a decision of the zoning
inspector.
(Ord. 911 § 7.02, 1983)
15.48.190 Violation—Penalty.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a Class II misdemeanor, and each person shall
be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion
thereof during which a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is
committed, continued or permitted and upon conviction of any such violation
such person, firm, or corporation shall be punished as prescribed in the
Arizona Revised Statutes.
(Ord. 911 Art. 8, 1983)
Table 15.48.070
Requirements for Shielding and Filtering
Fixture Lamp Type                    Shielded  Filtered4
Low Pressure Sodium1                 Partially None
High Pressure Sodium                 Fully     None
Metal Halide6                        Fully     Yes
Fluorescent                          Fully5    Yes2
Quartz3                              Fully     None
Incandescent greater than 150 W      Fully     None
Mercury Vapor                        Fully7    Yes7
Fossil Fuel                          None      None
Glass Tubes filled with Neon, Argon, None      None
Krypton
Other Sources                        As approved by the zoning inspector
Footnotes:
1 This is the preferred light source to minimize undesirable light into
the night sky affecting astronomical observations.
2 Warm white and natural lamps are preferred to minimize detrimental
effects.
3 For the purposes of this title, quartz lamps shall not be considered
an incandescent light source.
4 Most glass, acrylic, or translucent enclosures satisfy these filter
requirements.
5 Outdoor advertising signs of the type constructed of translucent
materials and wholly illuminated from within do not require shielding.
6 Metal halide display lighting shall not be used for security lighting
after 11 p.m. (or after closing hours if before 11 p.m.) unless fully
shielded. Metal halide lamps shall be in enclosed luminaries.
7 Recommended for existing fixtures. The installation of mercury vapor
fixtures is prohibited effective 90 days after the date of adoption of
this title.
 
Title 16
SUBDIVISIONS
Chapters:
16.04   General Provisions
16.08   Definitions
16.12   Platting Procedures and Requirements
16.16   Design Standards
16.20   Improvement Guarantees
16.24   Fees and Penalties
Chapter 16.04
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sections:
16.04.010   Short title.
16.04.020   Purpose of provisions.
16.04.030   City development policy declared.
16.04.040   Authority and jurisdiction.
16.04.050   Administration and enforcement.
16.04.060   Agencies and officials held harmless.
16.04.070   Interpretation and conflicting provisions.
16.04.080   Authority of provisions.
16.04.090   Amendments.
16.04.010 Short title.
   These regulations shall hereafter be known, cited and referred to as the
Casa Grande Subdivision Regulations except as referred to herein, where it
shall be known as “this title.”
(Ord. 1179 § 1.1, 1987)
16.04.020 Purpose of provisions.
   The purpose of this title is that of assuring sites suitable for building
purposes and human habitation, of providing for the harmonious development of
the city, of providing adequate open spaces for traffic, recreation, light and
air, of providing proper distribution of population and of creating conditions
favorable to the health, safety, and general welfare of the residents of the
city.
(Ord. 1179 § 1.3, 1987)
16.04.030 City development policy declared.
   A.   It is declared to be the policy of the city to consider the subdivision
of land and the subsequent development of the subdivided plat as subject to the
control of the city pursuant to the city general plan and zoning ordinance for
the orderly, planned, efficient and economical development of the city.
   B.   Land to be subdivided shall be of such character that it can be used
safely for building purposes without danger to health or peril from fire, flood
or other menace, and land shall not be subdivided until available public
facilities and improvements exist and proper provision has been made for
drainage, water, sewerage, and capital improvements such as schools, parks,
recreation facilities, transportation facilities, and other public
improvements.
(Ord. 1179 § 1.2, 1987)
16.04.040 Authority and jurisdiction.
   A.   Authorization for the city to adopt subdivision regulations is given in
the Arizona Revised Statutes, Section 9-463.01, 1977 compilation, Municipal
Subdivision Regulations.
   B.   Platting jurisdiction for the city shall encompass all the territory
within the incorporated limits of the city which may from time to time be
amended through annexation.
(Ord. 1179 § 1.4, 1987)
16.04.050 Administration and enforcement.
   A.   These regulations shall be administered and enforced by the planning
and development department of the city or other agency as designated by the
city manager, through the planning director.
   B.   All subdivision plats submitted to the city shall first have been
examined by the planning director and the planning and zoning commission in
accordance with the procedures established by these regulations. As part of
their examination, the director and the commission may consult with other
public or private agencies to determine whether or not the plat, as proposed,
will contribute to the orderly growth and development of the city.
(Ord. 1179 § 1.5, 1987)
16.04.060 Agencies and officials held harmless.
   The city shall hold harmless the planning director, other city agencies and
officials, and their official agents and representatives, when acting in good
faith and without malice, from all personal liability for any damage that may
accrue to any person or property as a result of any act required by these
regulations, or for the omission of any act on the part of the department,
agency or official or their authorized agents in the discharge of their duties
hereunder. Any suit brought against the city or the city administration because
of any such act or omission in the carrying out of the provisions of these
regulations shall be defended by the city's legal department through final
determination of such proceedings.
(Ord. 1179 § 1.6, 1987)
16.04.070 Interpretation and conflicting provisions.
   A.   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title
shall be held to be the minimum requirements necessary for the promotion of the
public health, safety, and general welfare.
   B.   This title is not intended to interfere with, abrogate, or annul any
ordinance, rule or regulation, statute or other provision of law except as
noted herein. Where any provisions of this title impose restrictions different
from those imposed by any other provision of this title or any other ordinance,
rule or regulation, or other provision of law, whichever provisions are more
restrictive or impose higher standards shall control.
   C.   This title is not intended to abrogate any easement, covenant or any
other private agreement or restriction, provided that where the provisions of
this title are more restrictive or impose higher standards or regulations than
such easement, covenant, or other private agreement or restriction, the
requirements of this title shall govern. Where the provisions of the easement,
covenant, or private agreement or restriction impose duties and obligations
more restrictive than this title, and such private provisions are not
inconsistent with this title or determinations thereunder, then such private
provisions shall be operative and supplemental to this title and determinations
made thereunder.
   D.   If any part or provision of this title or application thereof to any
person or circumstance is judged invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such judgment shall be confined in its operation to the part,
provision, or application directly involved in all controversy in which such
judgment shall have been rendered and shall not affect or impair the validity
of the remainder of this title or the application thereof to other persons or
circumstances.
(Ord. 1179 § 1.7, 1987)
16.04.080 Authority of provisions.
   This title shall not be construed as abating any action now pending under,
or by virtue of, prior existing subdivision regulations, or discontinuing,
abating, modifying, or altering any penalty accruing or about to accrue, or as
affecting the liability of any person, firm, or corporation, or as waiving any
right of the municipality under any section or provision existing at the time
of adoption of the ordinance codified in this title, or as vacating and
annulling any rights obtained by any person, firm, or corporation, by lawful
action of the municipality except as shall be expressly provided for in this
title.
(Ord. 1179 § 1.8, 1987)
16.04.090 Amendments.
   For the purpose of providing for the public health, safety, and general
welfare, the governing body may from time to time amend the provisions imposed
by this title.
(Ord. 1179 § 1.9, 1987)
Chapter 16.08
DEFINITIONS
Sections:
16.08.010   Rules of construction.
16.08.020   Alley.
16.08.030   Applicant.
16.08.040   Block.
16.08.050   Bond.
16.08.060   Building.
16.08.070   Capital improvements program.
16.08.080   City manager.
16.08.090   Commission.
16.08.100   Construction plan.
16.08.110   Council.
16.08.120   Cul-de-sac.
16.08.130   Developer.
16.08.140   Easement.
16.08.150   Engineer, city.
16.08.160   Escrow.
16.08.170   Final plat.
16.08.180   Frontage.
16.08.190   General plan.
16.08.200   Grade.
16.08.210   Lot.
16.08.220   Lot improvement.
16.08.230   Model home.
16.08.240   Municipality.
16.08.250   Nonresidential subdivision.
16.08.260   Off-site.
16.08.270   Ordinance.
16.08.280   Owner.
16.08.290   Perimeter street.
16.08.300   Planning director.
16.08.310   Plat.
16.08.320   Preliminary plat.
16.08.330   Protective covenant.
16.08.340   Public improvement.
16.08.350   Registered architect.
16.08.360   Registered engineer.
16.08.370   Resubdivision.
16.08.380   Right-of-way.
16.08.390   Roadway.
16.08.400   Sale or lease.
16.08.410   Sketch plat.
16.08.420   Street.
16.08.430   Street, dead-end.
16.08.440   Subdivide.
16.08.450   Subdivider.
16.08.460   Subdivision.
16.08.470   Subdivision agent.
16.08.480   Subdivision plat.
16.08.490   Temporary improvement.
16.08.500   Tract.
16.08.510   Utilities.
16.08.520   Vacation, public land.
16.08.530   Zoning.
16.08.010 Rules of construction.
   A.   For the purpose of these regulations, certain numbers, abbreviations,
terms and words used herein shall be used, interpreted, and defined as set
forth in this section.
   B.   Unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary, words used in the
present tense include the future tense; words used in the plural number include
the singular; the word “herein” means “in.”
   C.   A “person” includes a corporation, a partnership, and an incorporated
association of persons such as a club; “shall” is always mandatory; a
“building” includes a “structure”; a “building” or “structure” includes any
part thereof; “used” or “occupied” as applied to any land or building shall be
construed to include the words “intended, arranged, or designed to be used or
occupied.”
   D.   Except as specifically defined herein or, if not defined herein but
defined in Title 17 of this code, all words in this title shall have their
customary dictionary definition.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.1, 1987)
16.08.020 Alley.
   “Alley” means a public or private right-of-way primarily designed to serve
as secondary access to the side or rear of those properties whose principal
frontage is on some other street.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.030 Applicant.
   “Applicant” means the owner of land proposed to be subdivided, or his/her
representative.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.040 Block.
   “Block” means a tract of land bounded by streets and public parks,
cemeteries, railroad rights-of- way, or boundary lines of the municipality.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.050 Bond.
   “Bond” means any form of security including a cash deposit, surety bond,
collateral, property, or instrument of credit in an amount and form
satisfactory to the city council.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.060 Building.
   “Building” means any structure built for support, shelter, or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels, or movable property of any kind, and includes any
structure.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.070 Capital improvements program.
   “Capital improvements program” means a proposed schedule of all future
municipal improvement projects listed in order of construction priority
together with cost estimates and the anticipated means of financing each
project.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)   
16.08.080 City manager.
   “City manager” means the person designated by city council to be
administrative head of the city and who is, by city charter, responsible for
enforcement of this title.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.090 Commission.
   “Commission” means the planning and zoning commission of the city. Also
referred to as planning and zoning commission or planning commission.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.100 Construction plan.
   “Construction plan” means the maps or drawings accompanying a subdivision
plat and showing the specific location and design of improvements to be
installed in the subdivision in accordance with the requirements of the city as
a condition of the approval of the plat.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.110 Council.
   “Council” means the city council of the city of Casa Grande. Also referred
to as the governing body.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.120 Cul-de-sac.
   “Cul-de-sac” means a local street with only one outlet and having an
appropriate terminus for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
A cul-de-sac cannot exceed six hundred feet except by approval of the fire
chief.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.130 Developer.
   “Developer” means the owner of land proposed to be subdivided or his/her
representative.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.140 Easement.
   “Easement” means authorization by a property owner for the use by another,
and for a specified purpose, of any designated part of his/her property.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.150 Engineer, city.
   “Engineer, city” means the professional engineer engaged by the city.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.160 Escrow.
   “Escrow” means a deposit of cash with the local government in lieu of an
amount required and still in force on a performance or maintenance bond.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.170 Final plat.
   “Final plat” means the map or plan or record of a subdivision and any
accompanying material, as described in these regulations.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.180 Frontage.
   “Frontage” means that side of a lot abutting on a street or way and
ordinarily regarded as the front of the lot, but it shall not be considered
what would be the side of a corner lot.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.190 General plan.
   “General plan” means the document (Casa Grande General Plan), or part
thereof, officially adopted by the city council which provides for the
development of the city and which indicates the general locations recommended
for major roadways, parks, public utilities and buildings, and land uses.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.200 Grade.
   “Grade” means the slope of a road, street, or other public way, specified in
percentage terms.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.210 Lot.
   “Lot” means a piece, parcel, plot, tract or area of land separated from
other pieces, parcels, plots, tracts or areas by description, as in subdivision
or on a record survey map or by metes and bounds, for purposes of sale, lease
or separate use.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.220 Lot improvement.
   “Lot improvement” means any building, structure, place, work of art, or
other object, or improvement of the land on which they are situated
constituting a physical betterment of real property.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.230 Model home.
   “Model home” means a dwelling unit used initially for display purposes which
typifies the units that will be constructed in a subdivision.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.240 Municipality.
   “Municipality” means the city of Casa Grande, as incorporated by state law.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.250 Nonresidential subdivision.
   “Nonresidential subdivision” means a subdivision whose intended use is other
than residential, such as commercial or industrial.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.260 Off-site.
   “Off-site” means any premises not located within the area of the property to
be subdivided, whether or not in the same ownership of the applicant for
subdivision approval.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.270 Ordinance.
   “Ordinance” means any legislative action, however denominated, of a local
government which has the force of law, including any amendment or repeal of any
ordinance.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.280 Owner.
   “Owner” means any person or group of persons, firm or firms, corporation or
corporations, or any other legal entity having legal title to or sufficient
proprietary interest in the land sought to be subdivided under these
regulations.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.290 Perimeter street.
   “Perimeter street” means any existing street to which the parcel of land to
be subdivided abuts on only one side.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.300 Planning director.
   “Planning director” means the individual charged by the city manager to
administer this title.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.310 Plat.
   “Plat” means a map, chart, survey, plan or replat certified by a licensed,
registered land surveyor containing a description of the subdivided land with
ties to permanent monuments.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.320 Preliminary plat.
   “Preliminary plat” means the preliminary drawing or drawings, described in
this title, indicating the proposed manner of layout of the subdivision.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.330 Protective covenant.
   “Protective covenant” means a restriction on the use of private property
within a subdivision for the purpose of providing mutual protection against
undesirable aspects of a development. Protective covenants regulating the use
of land represent an express agreement between the subdivider and the lot
purchasers. Also referred to as covenants, conditions and restrictions or CCRs.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.340 Public improvement.
   “Public improvement” means any drainage ditch, roadway, parkway, sidewalk,
pedestrian way, tree, lawn, off-street parking area, lot improvement, or other
facility for which the city of Casa Grande may ultimately assume responsibility
for maintenance and operation, or which may effect an improvement where the
responsibility rests with the city.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.350 Registered architect.
   “Registered architect” means an architect registered in the state of
Arizona.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.360 Registered engineer.
   “Registered engineer” means an engineer registered in the state of Arizona.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.370 Resubdivision.
   “Resubdivision” means a change in a map of an approved or recorded
subdivision plat, if such change affects any street layout on such map or area
reserved thereon for public use, or any lot line; or if it affects any map or
plan legally recorded prior to the adoption of any regulations controlling
subdivisions.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.380 Right-of-way.
   “Right-of-way” means a strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by
a street, crosswalk, railroad, road, electric transmission line, oil or gas
pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, trees or for another
special use.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.390 Roadway.
   “Roadway” means that portion of a street right-of-way intended for driving
or parking.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.400 Sale or lease.
   “Sale or lease” means any immediate or future transfer of ownership, or any
possessory interest in land, including contract of sale, lease, intestate
succession, or transfer, of an interest in a subdivision or part thereof,
whether by metes and bounds, deed, contract, plat, map, lease, intestate
succession, or other written instrument.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.410 Sketch plat.
   “Sketch plat” means a sketch preparatory to the preparation of the
preliminary plat (or final plat when deemed appropriate) to enable the
subdivider to save time and expense in reaching general agreement with the
planning and zoning commission as to the form of the plat and the objectives of
these regulations.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.420 Street.
   “Street” means a general term used to describe a paved right-of-way,
municipally or privately owned, serving as a means of vehicular travel. Streets
are classified by function as follows:
   A.   “Local street” means a street intended to serve and provide access
exclusively to the properties abutting thereon, and not connecting with other
streets in such a manner as to encourage through traffic.
   B.   “Collector street” means a street connecting local residential streets
to each other, to community facilities and to principal, major or minor
arterial streets.
   C.   “Principal, major and minor arterial streets” means streets designed to
carry large amounts of traffic across or through the city and designated as
such by the general plan.
   D.   “Service street” means a street running parallel to a freeway,
expressway or other roadway, and serving abutting properties. Also called
Frontage Road.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.430 Street, dead-end.
   “Street, dead-end” means a street or portion of a street with only one
vehicular-traffic outlet.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.440 Subdivide.
   “Subdivide” means the act of dividing land into two or more parts by
platting, or by metes and bounds description, into tracts of less than thirty-
six acres in any one calendar year, for the purpose of:
   A.   Sale for building purposes;
   B.   Laying out a municipality or any part thereof;
   C.   Adding to a municipality;
   D.   Laying out suburban lots; or
   E.   Resubdivision.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.450 Subdivider.
   “Subdivider” means any person who:
   A.   Having an interest in land, causes it, directly or indirectly, to be
divided into a subdivision; or who
   B.   Directly or indirectly, sells, leases, or develops, or offers to sell,
lease, or develop, or advertises for sale, lease, or development, any interest,
lot parcel site, unit or plat in a subdivision; or, who
   C.   Engaging directly or through an agent in the business of selling,
leasing, developing, or offering for sale, lease, or development a subdivision
or any interest, lot, parcel site, or plat in a subdivision; and who
   D.   Is directly or indirectly controlled by, or under direct, or indirect
common control with any of the foregoing.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.460 Subdivision.
   “Subdivision” means improved or unimproved land or lands divided for the
purpose of financing, sale or lease, whether immediate or future:
   A.   Into four or more lots, tracts, or parcels of land; or
   B.   If a new street is involved, any such property which is divided into
two or more lots, tracts, or parcels of land; or
   C.   Any such property, the boundaries of which have been fixed by recorded
plat, which is divided into more than two parts.
 
   “Subdivision” also includes any condominium, cooperative, community
apartment, townhouse, or similar project containing four or more parcels, in
which an undivided interest in the land is coupled with the right of exclusive
occupancy of any unit located thereon, but plats of such projects need not show
the buildings or the manner in which the buildings or air space above the
property shown on the plat are to be divided.
   “Subdivision” does not include the following:
   A.   The sale or exchange of parcels of land to or between adjoining
property owners if such sale or exchange does not create additional lots;
   B.   The partitioning of land in accordance with other statutes regulating
the partitioning of land held in common ownership;
   C.   The leasing of apartments, offices, stores or similar space within a
building or trailer park, nor mineral, oil or gas leases.
(Ord. 1179.2 § 2, 1991)
16.08.470 Subdivision agent.
   “Subdivision agent” means any person who represents or acts for or on behalf
of a subdivider.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.480 Subdivision plat.
   “Subdivision plat” means the final map or drawings, described herein, on
which the subdivider's plan of subdivision is presented to the planning and
zoning commission and city council for approval and which, if approved, may be
submitted to the county recorder for filing.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.490 Temporary improvement.
   “Temporary improvement” means improvements built and maintained by a
subdivider during construction of the subdivision and prior to release of the
performance bond.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.500 Tract.
   “Tract” means a defined area of land regardless of size.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.510 Utilities.
   “Utilities” mean installations or facilities, underground or overhead,
furnishing for the use of the public; electricity, gas, steam, communication,
water, drainage, sewage disposal or flood control, owned and operated by any
person, firm, corporation, municipal department or board, duly authorized by
state or municipal regulations. Utility or utilities may also refer to such
persons, firms, corporations, departments or boards as tense requires.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.520 Vacation, public land.
   “Vacation, public land” means an official action taken by the governing body
to give up public ownership of previously owned public land, including streets,
parks or easements.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
16.08.530 Zoning.
   “Zoning” means the regulation by districts of the height, area, and use of
buildings; use of land and density of population.
(Ord. 1179 § 2.2 (part), 1987)
Chapter 16.12
PLATTING PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS
Sections:
16.12.010   Preapplication procedure.
16.12.020   Preliminary plat submittal requirements.
16.12.030   Preliminary plat—Drawing required.
16.12.040   Preliminary plat—Supporting material required.
16.12.050   Preliminary plat review procedure.
16.12.060   Final plat requirements—Certification of accuracy.
16.12.070   Final plat requirements—Staged approval.
16.12.080   Final plat requirements—Format.
16.12.090   Final plat requirements—Materials.
16.12.100   Final plat requirements—Signatures.
16.12.110   Final plat requirements—Information.
16.12.120   Final plat requirements—Fee.
16.12.130   Final plat requirements—Supporting material.
16.12.140   Final plat requirements—Drainage collection and retention plan and
report.
16.12.150   Final plat requirements—Soils report.
16.12.160   Final plat requirements—Grading, drainage and development plan.
16.12.170   Final plat requirements—Construction plans and details.
16.12.180   Final plat requirements—Deeds.
16.12.190   Final plat requirements—Preliminary title report.
16.12.200   Final plat requirements—Floodplain.
16.12.210   Final plat requirements—Financial guarantee.
16.12.220   Final plat requirements—Letters of certification, covenants,
conditions and restrictions.
16.12.230   Final plat requirements—Compliance with approved preliminary plat.
16.12.240   Final plat requirements—Staff review of supporting information.
16.12.250   Final plat requirements—City council action.
16.12.260   Final plat requirements—Filing with county recorder.
16.12.270   Final plat requirements—Alternate approval procedure.
16.12.280   Simultaneous submittal of preliminary and final plats.
16.12.290   Corrected plats and resubdivisions.
16.12.300   Variances.
16.12.310   Vacating public lands.
16.12.010 Preapplication procedure.
   A.   Prior to the submission of a preliminary plat as required by this
title, the subdivider shall contact the planning director and any other
administrative personnel or private agencies to determine:
   1.   Procedures and requirements for filing the sketch plat and preliminary
and final plats;
   2.   Availability of public water and sewer or requirements when public
systems are not readily available;
   3.   Zoning requirements on the property;
   4.   Requirements of the duly adopted general plan for major and minor
streets, land use, drainage, schools, parks and other public open space;
   5.   The location and extent of any floodplains.
   B.   As a part of this contract, the subdivider may discuss with the
planning director his/her tentative proposals for the development of the
property.
   C.   The subdivider shall submit, and the planning director shall review and
comment on, a sketch plat prior to the preparation of a preliminary plat. The
planning director shall make such a review and make its comments known to the
subdivider within five days from the date of the review. The sketch plat shall
contain or show two-foot contours and shall address the requirements of
subsection A of this section.
   D.   The purpose of this preapplication procedure is to determine any
problems with the proposed development before expenses are incurred in the
preparation of a preliminary plat. No official action is required other than to
offer appropriate comments on the proposal and indicating suitability for
proceeding through the platting process.
(Ord. 1179 § 3.1, 1987)
16.12.020 Preliminary plat submittal requirements.
   Copies of the preliminary plat, the number to be determined by the planning
director, shall be submitted, with a reproducible copy, to the planning
director. The preliminary plat shall consist of a drawing or drawings and
supporting material and information as prescribed by these regulations.
(Ord. 1179 § 3.2(A), 1987)
16.12.030 Preliminary plat—Drawing required.
   The preliminary plat drawing shall be prepared at a scale of one inch equals
one hundred feet or larger for subdivisions where the majority of lots are less
than five acres in size. The scale may be reduced to one inch equals two
hundred feet for subdivisions in which the minimum lot size is five acres or
more. The preliminary plat shall be prepared in a twenty-four by thirty-six
inch sheet size format. If more than one sheet is necessary, each sheet shall
be numbered, keyed and each sheet shall show match lines. The face of the
drawing shall contain the following information:
   A.   The Name of the Subdivision. The name shall not duplicate or too
closely resemble the name of any subdivision previously filed in the city;
   B.   Date of Preparation, Scale and North Arrow. The top of each sheet shall
represent north wherever possible;
   C.   Vicinity Map. A vicinity map drawn at a scale of one inch equals one
thousand feet or one inch equals two thousand feet, showing the location of the
proposed subdivision in the city and its relationship to surrounding
development;
   D.   The names, addresses and phone numbers of the developer or subdivider,
and the individual or firm responsible for the preparation of the preliminary
plat;
   E.   A legal description of the subdivision boundary;
   F.   The boundary lines of the subdivision in a heavy, solid line and
referenced to section or quarter section lines;
   G.   A description of all monuments, both found and set, which mark the
boundary of the subdivision, and a description of all control monuments used in
the survey;
   H.   Existing contours at a maximum interval of one foot unless waived by
the planning director;
   I.   General location and extent of any significant natural features such as
streams, or drainageways;
   J.   Floodplains and floodways as delineated on maps available from the
planning director with certification that if such floodplains exist all lots
can and shall be elevated to one foot above the one- hundred-year flood
elevation;
   K.   Location, dimensions, and names of existing roads, streets, alleys,
railroad rights-of-way and structures within two hundred feet immediately
adjacent to the property showing how they relate to the proposed subdivision
layout;
   L.   Location, size and grades of existing sanitary and storm sewers and
location and size of water mains, gas lines, pipelines, or other underground
utilities or installations within the proposed subdivision and within two
hundred feet immediately adjacent thereto;
   M.   Locations and dimensions of all easements of record;
   N.   Existing zoning and land use of the proposed subdivision and
immediately adjacent areas;
   O.   Location and width of proposed streets, alleys, pedestrian ways and
easements, with proposed names for streets;
   P.   Layout, numbers and approximate dimensions of proposed lots and blocks;
   Q.   Location of proposed fire hydrants, light standards, stop signs,
traffic signals and gang mail boxes;
   R.   Location, dimension and size in acres of all sites proposed to be used
for commercial, industrial, multifamily residential, public or quasi-public
use, with the use noted;
   S.   A summary of the total number of acres, number of lots, acreage of
commercial or industrial areas, acreage of open space, amount of land in
rights-of-way and other descriptive material useful in reviewing the proposed
subdivision.
(Ord. 1179 § 3.2(A)(1), 1987)
16.12.040 Preliminary plat—Supporting material required.
   The following information and material shall be a part of any preliminary
plat submittal and shall accompany the preliminary plat drawing:
   A.   Payment of the total amount of the preliminary plat fee;
   B.   A statement explaining the proposed design and function of the water,
sewage, paving, sidewalk (including handicapped accessibility as per A.R.S. 34-
404 through 34-412), stormwater collection and retention systems, including
preliminary drainage calculations and storm drainage systems, their
compatibility with existing systems and the timing and/or phasing of
installation. Approximate size and location of the above may be required on the
plat, as determined by the city engineer;
   C.   A statement describing the development and maintenance responsibility
for any private streets, ways or open space;
   D.   The recommendations of a qualified professional engineer regarding any
unusual soil suitability, erosion control, sedimentation and flooding problems;
   E.   A description of the phasing and scheduling of phases for the
development, if the final plat is to be submitted in separate phases;
   F.   A petition for annexation to the city if the land to be subdivided is
contiguous to, and outside, either by itself or as part of a larger tract, the
boundaries of the city;
   G.   An application for appropriate zoning for the subdivided area if the
area is to be annexed or if the existing zoning district does not allow the
type of use proposed;
   H.   The names and addresses of all owners of subdivided lots and unplatted
land contiguous to or within two hundred feet of the boundary of the proposed
subdivision;
   I.   Letters of certification and/or signed copies of the proposed
preliminary plat from appropriate agencies and utility companies approving the
proposed preliminary plat and confirming availability of services.
(Ord. 1179 § 3.2(A)(2), 1987)
16.12.050 Preliminary plat review procedure.
   A.   After receipt of a preliminary plat and all required supporting
material, the planning director shall schedule the plat for consideration at
the next regular meeting of the planning and zoning commission which occurs
after twenty-one days from the date on which the plat was submitted.
   B.   The planning director will review the preliminary plat, summarize the
agency comments, add his/her written comments and recommendations, and present
the material and recommendations to the planning and zoning commission for its
consideration.
   C.   At least seven days prior to the date of the planning and zoning
commission meeting at which the plat is to be considered, the planning director
shall, from information provided by the subdivider as a part of his preliminary
plat submittal, notify the owners of subdivided lots and owners of unplatted
land within two hundred feet of the boundaries of the proposed subdivision of
the time and date of the meeting.
   D.   The subdivider, or duly authorized representative, shall attend the
commission meeting at which his/her proposal is scheduled for consideration.
   E.   At the commission meeting the subdivider and all other interested or
affected parties shall be allowed to offer comments. Upon the commission's
approval or disapproval of the preliminary plat, it shall notify the subdivider
and city council of its decision. If conditions are attached to its approval,
the subdivider and city council shall be informed of such conditions. No
preliminary plat may be continued (tabled) for more than two consecutive
meetings.
   F.   Approval of the preliminary plat by the planning and zoning commission
shall be effective for one year from the date of approval. The subdivider may
apply in writing for, and the planning and zoning commission may, for cause
shown, grant up to a six month extension. If a final plat has not been
submitted within this specified period on all or a portion of the land area
included in the preliminary plat, a preliminary plat must again be submitted
for approval. In a phased development, any land area for which the preliminary
plat has been approved and for which a final plat has not been submitted within
twenty- four months from the date of the approval of the preliminary plat,
shall not be allowed to proceed with final platting until a new preliminary
plat is submitted and approved.
(Ord. 1179 § 3.2(B), 1987)
16.12.060 Final plat requirements—Certification of accuracy.
   After approval of the preliminary plat, a final plat and required supporting
material (see Sections
16.12.130 through
16.12.220) may be prepared and submitted to the planning director. The final
plat shall be prepared and certified as to its accuracy by a land surveyor
registered to do such work in the state of Arizona. The final plat and required
supporting material shall conform to the design and engineering standards set
forth in these regulations and to any conditions of approval specified by the
planning and zoning commission and/or city council (see Section
16.12.300) during approval of the preliminary plat.
(Ord. 1179 § 3.3(A)(1), 1987)
16.12.070 Final plat requirements—Staged approval.
   Final platting may be accomplished in stages covering reasonable portions of
the area of an approved preliminary plat. When this is done, each sheet of the
final plat shall contain a vicinity map showing the location of the portion
being submitted in relationship to the area for which the preliminary plat was
submitted. All final plats so submitted shall be of the same scale, shall have
identical titles, legends and other information, and shall have match lines so
that mosaics of the entire subdivision can be developed. Each stage of the
subdivision shall be as nearly self-sustaining and complete as possible and
shall by itself, or in conjunction with previous stages, meet the design
standards set forth in these regulations so that if development of the entire
subdivision is interrupted or discontinued after one or more stages is
completed, a viable development will result.
(Ord. 1179 § 3.3(A)(2), 1987)
16.12.080 Final plat requirements—Format.
   The final plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn in black, waterproof India
ink upon mylar of .003 inch in thickness (minimum). Required affidavits,
certificates and acknowledgments shall be legibly printed on the plat in opaque
ink. The sheet size of all final plats shall be twenty-four inches high by
thirty-six inches wide. Information on the plat should be so positioned that a
two-inch margin is on the left side and a one-half inch margin is shown on the
remaining sides. The final plat shall be prepared at a scale of one inch equals
one hundred feet or larger, or at a scale of one inch equals two hundred feet
for subdivisions in which the minimum lot size is five acres or more. Each
sheet of the final plat shall be numbered and the total number of sheets
comprising the plat shall be stated on each sheet (for example: Sheet 2 of 4).
The relationship of one sheet to the other shall be shown by key maps and match
lines.
(Ord. 1179 § 3.3(A)(3), 1987)
16.12.090 Final plat requirements—Materials.
   The original mylar, two reproducible copies (sepia not acceptable) and
prints of the final plat and copies of all required supporting material shall
be submitted to the planning director.
(Ord. 1179 § 3.3(A)(4), 1987)
16.12.100 Final plat requirements—Signatures.
   The submitted final plat shall contain the notarized signatures of the owner
or owners of any and all equitable or legal interest in the land of whatever
nature and the signature of the registered land surveyor.
(Ord. 1179 § 3.3(A)(5), 1987)
16.12.110 Final plat requirements—Information.
   All final plats shall include the following information on the face of the
plat:
   A.   The name of the subdivision, centered at the top of each sheet;
   B.   General location of the subdivision by section, township, range,
county, and state, entered under the name of the subdivision;
   C.   North arrow, date and scale;
   D.   Boundary lines of the subdivision in a heavy solid line;
   E.   Legal description of the subdivision boundary based on an accurate
traverse, giving bearing and linear dimensions that result in a maximum
allowable error of closure of one part in ten thousand;
   F.   The location and description of the point of beginning and its proper
reference to the monumented boundary survey;
   G.   Location and description of all monuments, found or set;
   H.   Bearings, distances and curve data of all perimeter boundary lines
indicated outside of the boundary lines;
   I.   Adjoining parcels' subdivision names, parcel number and recording
information;
   J.   On curved boundaries and on all curves within the plat, sufficient data
to allow the reestablishment of the curves on the ground.
   K.   The location and layout of lots, blocks, tracts, streets, alleys,
easements, and other public grounds within and immediately adjoining the plat,
with accurate dimensions in feet and one-hundredths of feet, bearings, curve
data, length of radii and/or arcs of all curves;
   L.   Drainage easements clearly labeled as such;
   M.   All drainage easements for flood control retention shall remain in
perpetuity;
   N.   The names of all streets;
   O.   All lots logically and consecutively numbered in the center of the lot
with the appropriate address of each lot or parcel of ground;
   P.   All dimensions shown on irregularly shaped lots;
   Q.   Parcels completely or partially surrounded by the area being subdivided
shall be clearly marked “EXCEPTED,” and the common boundary with the
subdivision shown in a heavy solid line with bearings and distances;
   R.   A notation of the total acreage of the subdivision and the total number
of lots;
   S.   A notarized certificate by all parties having any titled interest in or
lien upon the land, consenting to the recording of the plat and dedicating
public ways, grounds and easements. Dedication shall include a written
description by section, township and range of the tract. If the plat contains
private streets, public utilities shall be reserved the right to install and
maintain utilities in the street right-of-way;
   T.   In cases involving vacation of public or private streets or public
ways, easements or grounds, a notarized certificate of all parties having any
titled interest in, or lien upon, the land or other pertinent interest,
consenting to such vacation shall be provided;
   U.   A notarized certificate of a registered land surveyor, registered under
the laws of Arizona, with his/her address and registration number, stating that
the plat is true, accurate and complete and that the described monuments have
been found or set as described;
   V.   Certification of availability of water from the local water agency
supplying water;
   W.   Certificate of approval of the city engineer as follows:
Data on this plat reviewed and approved this      day of              ,19    ,
by the City Engineer of Casa Grande, Arizona.
________________                       
City Engineer
   X.   Certificate of compliance with the preliminary plat as approved by the
city of Casa Grande planning and zoning commission as follows:
This plat is in compliance with the original preliminary plat approved by the
city of Casa Grande Planning and Zoning Commission on the
                                   day of                               , 19
        . The Final Plat reviewed and approved this       day of               
, 19       .
________________________
Planning and Zoning Commission Chairperson
                                                
Planning Director
   Y.   Certificate of acceptance and approval by the city council as follows:
Approved by the City Council of the City of Casa Grande, Arizona, this     day
of                      _______ , 19     .
_____________________________
Mayor
Attest:
_____________________________
City Clerk
   Z.   Certificate for recording by the County Recorder as follows:
This plat was filed for record in the Office of County Recorder at        
o'clock        . m.,                 _____________ , 19       , and is duly
recorded in Book          , Page No.
                                                  
County Recorder
(Ord. 1179 § 3.3(A)(6), 1987)
16.12.120 Final plat requirements—Fee.
   The final plat shall be accompanied by the total amount of the final plat
fee.
(Ord. 1179 § 3.3(A)(7), 1987)
16.12.130 Final plat requirements—Supporting material.
   The required final plat supporting material submittal shall consist of the
final plat and all information as set out in Sections
16.12.140 through
16.12.220.
(Ord. 1179 § 3.3(B)(part), 1987)
16.12.140 Final plat requirements—Drainage collection and retention plan and
report.
   A.   A drainage plan and report for the site in question and all pertinent
off-site areas shall be prepared by a registered engineer. The report shall
examine one-hundred-year storm flows (Q 100's), the one-hundred-year high water
mark of any river, creek, arroyo, gully, diversion ditch, spillway, reservoir,
etc., that may in any way affect the project area, along with the depth of flow
for one-hundred-year runoff. The watershed in all off-site areas shall be
considered fully developed. Intensities shall be for this area's one hour one-
hundred-year storm based upon two and thirty-nine one-hundredths (2.39) inches
per hour. A certificate shall be provided, signed, and sealed by a registered
professional engineer that all drainage facilities, utilizing gutters and
streets, are designed and sized to handle one hundred percent of the Q 100
runoff. The report shall comply with the requirements and standards of the city
storm drainage master plan and drainage policy.
   B.   Every effort shall be made to utilize the natural slope of the land for
the stormwater collection system. Subsurface drainage systems shall be
discouraged, but where necessary shall be a minimum of twenty-four inches in
diameter. Wherever possible, runoff shall be collected in depressed open areas
throughout the proposed land development project. The plan shall include but
not be limited to, the following:
   1.   Method of collection (surface and/or subsurface);
   2.   Depth, side slopes and area of retention;
   3.   Calculations of volume held and required;
   4.   High water elevation;
   5.   Method of disposal of water within thirty-six hours;
   6.   Any other data to form a complete plan.
   C.   The point or points in which natural drainage flows onto and from a
property prior to development shall remain the same after the property has been
altered for the development.
(Ord. 1179 § 3.3(B)(part), 1987)
16.12.150 Final plat requirements—Soils report.
   A soils report for the site in question and pertinent off-site areas shall
be prepared, if required by the city, by a registered engineer. The report
shall indicate the type and location of soils, using the unified soil
classification system, shall contain drill logs and swell consolidation curves,
shall contain the results of percolation tests and soil bearing capacity tests,
and shall contain a discussion of any present or potential hazards, associated
with soils on the site along with measures which could be taken to mitigate
such hazards. In addition the soils report shall contain recommendations on
subsurface area drains and peripheral drains, foundation design, erosion
control measures and surface drainage.
(Ord. 1179 § 3.3(B)(part), 1987)
16.12.160 Final plat requirements—Grading, drainage and development plan.
   A.   A grading, drainage and development plan shall be prepared by a
registered engineer at a scale of one inch equals one hundred feet or larger,
showing proposed rights-of-way, easements, walkways, parks, common areas,
roadways, waterlines and reservoirs, sewer lines, manholes and treatment
facilities, curbs and gutters, culverts, drains, stormwater detention and
retention basins, swales, ditches and other drainage devices, spot top of curb
elevations, high and low street points, drainage arrows, street plans, all
drainage areas and acreages, all one-hundred-year storm flows (Q 100's)
adjacent to and/or flowing onto the development and on-site at each surface
flow junction, stormwater “pickup” and “takeoff” points designed to handle one-
hundred-year flow on the surface, cross sections and high water elevations for
all one-hundred-year flows. Spot elevations shall be given for all inverts, low
points and flowing entry and exit points.
   B.   All minimum building setbacks shall be shown. No one-hundred-year flow
line shall encroach upon any minimum setback line and all lowest habitable
floor elevations shall be at minimum, one foot above the one-hundred-year flood
elevation. Certification by a registered engineer that such conditions will be
maintained may be required by the city.
(Ord. 1179 § 3.3(B)(part), 1987)
16.12.170 Final plat requirements—Construction plans and details.
   Construction plans and details must be prepared by a registered professional
engineer in the state of Arizona and shall provide for all improvements
indicated on the grading, drainage, and development plan, including right-of-
way and easement cross sections showing construction and placement of streets,
walks, curbs, gutters, medians, lighting standards, swales, ditches, utilities,
planting strips and property lines; details of hydrants, valves, manholes, pipe
junctions, pumps, thrust-blocking, catch basins, etc.; street profiles showing
natural and finish grades, centerline and both curbs, with a minimum vertical
scale of one inch equals two feet and a horizontal scale of one inch equals
twenty feet; sanitary sewer line and manhole profiles with natural and finish
grades, showing area underdrains, if applicable, and the location of gravity
outfall lines; storm drainage system profiles showing natural and finish grade;
erosion control and revegetation details and other details as necessary to
adequately convey the design intent. Quantity takeoffs shall also be provided.
(Ord. 1179 § 3.3(B)(part), 1987)
16.12.180 Final plat requirements—Deeds.
   When required by the city, a warranty deed or other acceptable instrument
conveying to the city or other appropriate public agency any public lands other
than streets, alleys or easements shown on the final plat and title insurance,
if required by the city on the subject parcel, shall be presented to the city
upon approval of the final plat. The method of assurance will be approved by
the city attorney.
(Ord. 1179 § 3.3(B)(part), 1987)
16.12.190 Final plat requirements—Preliminary title report.
   A preliminary title report prepared by a certified title company shall be
submitted showing title and control of the property.
(Ord. 1179 § 3.3(B)(part), 1987)
16.12.200 Final plat requirements—Floodplain.
   If a subdivision lies within a one-hundred-year floodplain, the following
statement shall appear on the face of the final plat and all contracts and
agreements relating to the subdivision: “THIS SUBDIVISION IS (OR THE FOLLOWING
LOTS ARE) LOCATED WITHIN THE ONE HUNDRED YEAR FLOODPLAIN AS DEFINED BY THE
UNITED STATES FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA).” (All lots are
required to be elevated to one foot above the one-hundred-year flood
elevation.)
(Ord. 1179 § 3.3(B)(part), 1987)
16.12.210 Final plat requirements—Financial guarantee.
   A contractor's performance bond or other financial guarantee acceptable to
the city to guarantee the complete and timely development of any facilities or
improvements which are the subdivider's responsibility shall be submitted as
described in Article I of
Chapter 16.20.
(Ord. 1179 § 3.3(B)(part), 1987)
16.12.220 Final plat requirements—Letters of certification, covenants,
conditions and restrictions.
   A.   Letters of certification and/or signed copies of the proposed final
plat from appropriate agencies and utility companies approving the proposed
final plat.
   B.   Any covenants, conditions and restrictions (CCR's) for the subdivision
shall be submitted for review to assure that such CCR's do not conflict with
any city regulations.
(Ord. 1179 § 3.3(B)(part), 1987)
16.12.230 Final plat requirements—Compliance with approved preliminary plat.
   After receipt of the final plat, the planning director shall review the
submittal with the chairperson of the planning and zoning commission for
completeness and for compliance with the approved preliminary plat. The
director may refer to copies of the final plat to and seek comment from other
officials and agencies.
(Ord. 1179 § 3.3(C)(1), 1987)
16.12.240 Final plat requirements—Staff review of supporting information.
   Upon submittal of all required supportingmaterials, the planning director
shall review them for completeness to determine whether a complete final plat
submittal has been made and shall refer the material to appropriate agencies
for review and comment. Upon being notified of the comments and any necessary
approvals of reviewing agencies, the planning director shall forward the final
plat, comments and approvals of reviewing agencies and pertinent supporting
materials to the council. Incomplete final plats, or final plats for which
necessary approvals have not been secured, shall not be forwarded to council
for action.
(Ord. 1179 § 3.3(C)(2), 1987)
16.12.250 Final plat requirements—City council action.
   Following receipt of the final plat, the recommendation from the planning
director and chairperson of the planning and zoning commission that the final
plat complies with the preliminary plat, and required supporting materials, the
city council shall either approve the final plat or disapprove the final plat
and notify the subdivider of the conditions to be met to gain approval. If a
disapproved final plat is modified and resubmitted to the city council at a
later date for their consideration, the council may require a concurrent
submittal of an updated ownership and encumbrance report or title opinion.
(Ord. 1179 § 3.3(C)(3), 1987)
16.12.260 Final plat requirements—Filing with county recorder.
   Upon approval by the city council of the final plat, the subdivider shall be
notified to submit payment for the recording fee to the planning director who
shall transmit the subdivider's recording fee and the duly approved and
executed final plat to the county recorder for the filing of the final plat
among the official records of the county.
(Ord. 1179 § 3.3(C)(4), 1987)
16.12.270 Final plat requirements—Alternate approval procedure.
   As an alternate procedure and at the request of the subdivider, the city
council may approve a final plat and instruct the planning director to withhold
the approved final plat from recording for a period of time to allow the
subdivider to install all of the required public improvements according to the
plans and specifications approved by the city engineer. This procedure, when
approved by the council, shall be in lieu of the guarantees for installation of
improvements as set forth in Section
16.12.210 of these regulations. An executed standard contract as approved by
the city attorney regarding installation of improvements shall be submitted
with the final plat. The contract shall require that all improvements be
completed no later than twelve months from the date the final plat was approved
by the city council and that no lot may be sold. When the completed
improvements are inspected and approved by the city engineer, the plat shall be
recorded by the planning director, and the sale of lots may then proceed
according to the approved and recorded plat, provided that a one year warranty
shall be submitted covering the completed improvements.
(Ord. 1179 § 3.3(C)(5), 1987)
16.12.280 Simultaneous submittal of preliminary and final plats.
   For certain subdivisions, the subdivider may, after discussion with the
planning director, simultaneously submit both the preliminary plat and the
final plat. Depending on the size and complexity of the subdivision and the
amount of street dedication, any or all of the information required in the
preliminary and final plat processes may be submitted. The director shall
determine which information must be submitted for adequate review of the
subdivision. The preliminary and final plats may then be processed
concurrently. It is possible for the preliminary and final plats to be one and
the same instrument.
(Ord. 1179 § 3.3(D), 1987)
16.12.290 Corrected plats and resubdivisions.
   A.   If, after the approval and recording of a final plat, errors are found
in the language or numbers on the recorded plat, the subdivider shall file a
properly signed, corrected or revised original mylar with the planning
director. The plat shall be noted CORRECTED PLAT under the name of the
subdivision. Notations shall be made on the face of the plat listing all
corrections made and the book and page numbers where the original plat was
recorded. The director shall review the plat for corrections, secure the
signatures of the proper public officials on the corrected plat and present the
plat to the city council for the reaffirmation of their approval and to the
county clerk for recording. The recording of the corrected plat shall void the
incorrect original plat, and the council clerk shall note VOID across the face
of the incorrect plat.
   B.   If, after the approval and recording of a final plat, a subdivider
wishes to modify the location of lot lines on part or all of the recorded plat,
and if there is no change in the location or size of dedicated streets or other
dedicated public land, the subdivider shall submit a new final plat drawing
with the lotting arrangement revised. The community development director shall
determine which of the required supporting materials shall be resubmitted with
the revised final plat. The plat shall be marked the RESUBDIVISION OF
                              under the name of the subdivision and shall be
processed as a final plat.
   C.   If, after the approval and recording of a final plat, a subdivider
wishes to change the street or public land location, size or arrangement of a
part or all of the platted area, the resulting subdivision shall be treated as
a new submittal with both a preliminary plat and a final plat required. Based
on the currency of the information submitted with the original plat and the
magnitude of the change(s), the procedure described in Section
16.12.280 may be applied. The subdivision shall be identified as the
RESUBDIVISION OF         . Any action of the city council approving such
resubdivision shall contain clear reference to the vacation of public lands as
appropriate.
(Ord. 1179 § 3.3(E), 1987)
16.12.300 Variances.
   A.   When it can be shown that in the case of a particular subdivision,
strict compliance with the provisions of these regulations would cause undue
hardship, the city council may authorize a variance to these regulations
provided that the general intent of these regulations is preserved, the public
interest is protected, and that such variances do not have the effect of
nullifying the intent and purpose of the general plan or Title 17 of this code.
The granting of a variance shall be based upon findings by the council that:
   1.   The subdivider is proceeding in good faith;
   2.   There are unusual topographical or other special circumstances
associated with the property which are not the result of any action of the
subdivider and which prohibit the use of the property in a manner similar to
the use of adjacent or nearby properties;
   3.   The variance is necessary for reasonable development of the property in
question and will alleviate a clearly demonstrable hardship;
   4.   The variance will not nullify the intent or purpose of these
regulations;
   5.   Granting the variance will not be detrimental to the general public
health, safety and welfare.
   B.   Any variance granted shall constitute the minimum adjustment necessary
to alleviate the hardship.
   C.   All requests for variances shall be submitted in writing together with
a preliminary plat and reviewed in the normal manner by the planning and zoning
commission. The planning and zoning commission may approve or deny the
preliminary plat and variance request.
   D.   Following the planning and zoning commission's action, the request for
variance shall be referred to the city council for consideration and action.
The council may consider comments from the planning and zoning commission,
staff, the applicant, and the public. The council may approve or deny the
variance request. The request may not be tabled for more than two meetings. In
granting a variance, compliance with the intent of the objectives and standards
of these regulations shall be maintained.
   E.   If the subdivision variance is grantedby the city council, the
subdivider may incorporate the provisions of the variance into the final plat
to be submitted and reviewed in the normal manner at a subsequent meeting of
the city council. The final plat must, in all respects other than the variance,
conform with the preliminary plat and any other conditions imposed by the
planning and zoning commission.
(Ord. 1179.5 § 2, 1990)
16.12.310 Vacating public lands.
   A.   Any plat may be vacated by the owners or proprietors thereof at any
time before sale of any lots, or before any substantial improvements have been
made in the subdivision, by submitting a copy of the plat to the city council
along with a written request for a vacation. In cases where lots have been
sold, the written request shall be by all of the owners of lots within the
plat. The planning and zoning commission shall make a recommendation on the
vacation to the city council, and the city council shall approve or disapprove
the vacation. The recording of an instrument vacating the plat shall operate to
destroy the force and effect of the recording of the original plat and to
divest all public rights in the streets, alleys, common and public grounds laid
out or described in such a plat.
   B.   Streets and alleys platted and laid out under the provisions of these
regulations or laid out under any prior law of the state of Arizona may be
altered or vacated in the manner provided by law for the alteration or
discontinuance of streets and highways.
   C.   Any part of a plat may be vacated under the provisions and subject to
the conditions of this section and Section
16.12.110, provided such vacating does not abridge or destroy any of the rights
and privileges of other proprietors in said plat and provided, further, that
nothing contained in this section shall authorize the closing or obstruction of
any public highways laid out according to law. The request for vacation shall
be made by all of the owners of lots within that portion of the overall plat
sought to be vacated.
   D.   When any part of a plat shall be vacated as aforesaid, streets, alleys,
and other public grounds shall be assigned to all lots or parcels adjacent to
the public area being vacated in equal proportions.
   E.   The county clerk shall write in plain, legible letters across that part
of said plat so vacated, the word “vacated” and also make reference on the same
to the volume and page in which said instrument of vacation is recorded.
   F.   Land covered by a vacated plat may be replatted as described in these
regulations. Any replatting of an area already platted and not vacated shall be
construed to be a request for the vacation of the original plat or portion
thereof. Any such plat, once approved and recorded, shall act to vacate the
original plat which it replaces.
(Ord. 1179 § 3.3(G), 1987)
Chapter 16.16
DESIGN STANDARDS
Sections:
16.16.010   General improvements to comply with certain rules and regulations.
16.16.020   Self-imposed restrictions.
16.16.030   Permanent reference monuments required.
16.16.040   Land unsuitable for development when.
16.16.050   Subdivision name.
16.16.060   Lot arrangement.
16.16.070   Lot dimensions to comply with minimum standards.
16.16.080   Double frontage lots to be avoided—Access requirements.
16.16.090   Soil preservation and lot drainage requirements.
16.16.100   Debris and waste to be cleared.
16.16.110   Fencing and screen wall requirements.
16.16.120   Performance bond to include lot improvement.
16.16.130   Streets—Frontage requirements.
16.16.140   Streets—Grading and improvement plan.
16.16.150   Streets—Topography and arrangement requirements.
16.16.160   Streets—Block dimension requirements.
16.16.170   Streets—Access to arterial streets.
16.16.180   Street naming requirements.
16.16.190   Street names and regulatory signs requirements.
16.16.200   Street light requirements.
16.16.210   Construction of streets—Dead-end streets.
16.16.220   Streets—General design standards.
16.16.230   Street and sidewalk surfacing and improvement requirements.
16.16.240   Railroads and limited access highways.
16.16.250   Required angles of intersections.
16.16.260   Widening and realignment of existing streets.
16.16.270   Sidewalks and curbs—Required improvements.
16.16.280   Drainage, storm sewers and retention basins—General requirements.
16.16.290   Retention requirements.
16.16.300   Dedication of drainage easements—Requirements.
16.16.310   Water facility and fire hydrant requirements.
16.16.320   Sewer facility requirements in general.
16.16.330   Public sewerage required.
16.16.340   Private sewerage systems when.
16.16.350   Mandatory connection to public sewer system when.
16.16.360   Individual sewage system disposal requirements.
16.16.370   Design criteria for sanitary sewers.
16.16.380   Utility location and easement requirements.
16.16.390   Public land reservation requirements.
16.16.010 General improvements to comply with certain rules and regulations.
   All subdivision improvements shall be in conformance to the following rules
and regulations:
   A.   The city of Casa Grande Zoning Ordinance;
   B.   The general plan of the city including all streets, drainage systems,
and parks shown on the general plan as adopted;
   C.   The rules of the Arizona Department of Transportation if the
subdivision or any lot contained therein abuts a state highway or connecting
street;
   D.   The regulations and requirements of the city Flood Control Ordinance
and storm drainage master plan and drainage policy, as they may be amended from
time to time;
   E.   The Arizona Department of Health Bulletin No. 11, “Design of Sewage
Works” and the Pinal County Department of Health relative to water supply and
sanitary sewage disposal; and
   F.   The design standards and regulations adopted by the city engineer and
officials of the city, which shall include, but not be limited to, the Uniform
Standard Specifications for Public Works Construction and the Uniform Standard
Details for Public Works Construction, as sponsored and distributed by Maricopa
Association of Governments;
   G.   The Manual on Uniform Traffic Control.
(Ord. 1179 § 4.1(A), 1987)
16.16.020 Self-imposed restrictions.
   If the owner places restrictions on any of the land contained in the
subdivision greater than those required by this title or Title 17, such
restrictions or reference thereto may be required to be indicated on the
subdivision plat, or the planning and zoning commission may require that
protective covenants be recorded with the county clerk.
(Ord. 1179 § 4.1(B), 1987)
16.16.030 Permanent reference monuments required.
   The applicant shall place permanent reference monuments in the subdivision
as approved by a registered land surveyor and the city engineer.
(Ord. 1179 § 4.1(C), 1987)
16.16.040 Land unsuitable for development when.
   Land which the planning and zoning commission finds to be unsuitable for
subdivision or development because of flooding, improper drainage, rock
formations, adverse earth formations or topography, utility easements, or other
features which will reasonably be harmful to the safety, health, and general
welfare of the present or future inhabitants of the subdivision and/or its
surrounding areas, shall not be subdivided or developed unless adequate methods
are formulated by the developer and approved by the planning and zoning
commission, upon recommendation of the city engineer, to solve the problems
created by the unsuitable land conditions. Such land shall be set aside for
uses that shall not involve such a danger.
(Ord. 1179 § 4.1(D), 1987)
16.16.050 Subdivision name.
   The proposed name of the subdivision shall not duplicate, or too closely
approximate phonetically, the name of any other subdivision in the area covered
by this chapter. The planning and zoning commission shall have final authority
to designate the name of the subdivision which shall be determined at sketch
plat approval.
(Ord. 1179 § 4.1(E), 1987)
16.16.060 Lot arrangement.
   The lot arrangement shall be such that there will be no foreseeable
difficulties, for reasons of topography or other conditions, in securing
building permits to build on all lots in compliance with Title 17 or in
providing driveway access to buildings on such lots from an approved street.
(Ord. 1179 § 4.2(A), 1987)
16.16.070 Lot dimensions to comply with minimum standards.
   Lot dimensions shall comply with the minimum standards of Title 17. Where
lots are more than double the minimum required area for the zoning district,
the planning and zoning commission may require that such lots be arranged so as
to allow further subdivision and the opening of future streets where they would
be necessary to serve such potential lots, all in compliance with this title
and Title 17. In general, side lot lines shall be at right angles to street
lines (or radial to curving street lines) unless a variation from this rule
will give a better street or lot plan. Dimensions of corner lots shall be large
enough to allow for the erection of buildings, observing the minimum setbacks
from both streets. Depth and width of properties reserved or laid out for
business, commercial, or industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide for
the off-street parking and loading facilities required for the type of use and
development contemplated, as established in Title 17 of this code.
(Ord. 1179 § 4.2(B), 1987)
16.16.080 Double frontage lots to be avoided—Access requirements.
   A.   Double frontage lots and reversed frontage lots shall be avoided except
where necessary to provide separation of residential development from traffic
arterials or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation.
   B.   Lots shall not, in general, derive access exclusively from an arterial
street. Where driveway access from an arterial street may be necessary for
several adjoining lots, the planning and zoning commission may require that
such lots be served by a combined access drive in order to limit possible
traffic hazards on the street. Where possible, driveways should be designed and
arranged so as to avoid requiring vehicles to back into traffic on arterial
streets.
(Ord. 1179 § 4.2(C), 1987)
16.16.090 Soil preservation and lot drainage requirements.
   A.   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued until grading has been
completed in accordance with the approved final subdivision plat.
   B.   Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive drainage away from all
buildings and individual lot drainage shall be coordinated with the general
storm drainage pattern for the area. Drainage shall be designed so as to avoid
concentration of storm drainage water from each lot onto adjacent lots and
shall comply with the requirements of the city's storm drainage master plan and
drainage policy.
(Ord. 1179 § 4.2(D), 1987)
16.16.100 Debris and waste to be cleared.
   No cut trees, debris, rocks, rubbish, or other waste materials of any kind
shall be buried in any land, or left or deposited on any lot or street at the
time of the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. 1179 § 4.2(E), 1987)
16.16.110 Fencing and screen wall requirements.
   Each subdivider and/or developer shall be required to furnish and install
fences and/or screen walls wherever the city council determines that a
hazardous condition may exist. The fences shall be constructed according to
standards established by Title 17 of this code and shall be noted as to height
and material on the final plat. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued
until the fence improvements have been duly installed.
(Ord. 1179 § 4.2(A), 1987)
16.16.120 Performance bond to include lot improvement.
   A.   The performance bond or other financial guarantee shall include an
amount to guarantee completion of all requirements contained in Sections
16.16.060 through
16.16.120 of this chapter including, but not limited to, soil preservation,
final grading, lot drainage, removal of debris and waste, fencing, and all
other lot improvements required by the city council.
   B.   Whether or not a certificate of occupancy has been issued, at the
expiration of the performance bond, the city may enforce the provisions of the
bond where the provisions of the above mentioned sections or any other
applicable law, ordinance or regulation have not been satisfied.
(Ord. 1179 § 4.2(G), 1987)
16.16.130 Streets—Frontage requirements.
   No subdivision shall be approved unless the area to be subdivided shall have
frontage on, and access from, an existing street and unless such street is:
   A.   A street shown upon a plat approved by the city council and recorded in
the county recorder's office. The street or highway must be suitably improved
as required by Maricopa Association of Governments (MAG) specifications or be
secured by a performance bond required under these subdivision regulations,
with the width and right-of-way required by these subdivision regulations or
the general plan. Wherever the area to be subdivided is to utilize existing
road frontage, such road shall be suitably improved as provided hereinabove.
(Ord. 1179 § 4.3(A)(1), 1987)
16.16.140 Streets—Grading and improvement plan.
   Roads shall be graded and improved and conform to the city construction
standards and specifications and shall be approved as to design and
specifications by the city engineer, in accordance with the construction plans
required to be submitted prior to final plat approval.
(Ord. 1179 § 4.3(A)(2), 1987)
16.16.150 Streets—Topography and arrangement requirements.
   A.   Roads shall be related appropriately to the topography. Local roads
shall be curved wherever possible to avoid conformity of lot appearance. All
streets shall be arranged so as to obtain as many as possible of the building
sites at, or above, the grades of the streets. Grades of streets shall conform
as closely as possible to the original topography. Specific standards are
contained in the design standards of these regulations.
   B.   All streets shall be properly integrated with the existing and proposed
system of thoroughfares and dedicated rights-of-way as established in the
general plan.
   C.   Local streets shall be laid out to conform as much as possible to the
topography, to discourage use by through traffic, to permit efficient drainage
and utility systems, and to require the minimum number of streets necessary to
provide convenient and safe access to the property.
   D.   Proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of the tract
to be subdivided, unless prevented by topography or other physical conditions,
unless in the opinion of the city council, such extension is not necessary or
desirable for the coordination of the layout of the subdivision with the
existing layout or the most advantageous future development of adjacent tracts.
(Ord. 1179 § 4.3(A)(3), 1987)
16.16.160 Streets—Block dimension requirements.
   A.   Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two tiers of lots of
appropriate depths. Exceptions to this prescribed block width shall be
permitted in blocks adjacent to major streets, railroads, waterways or parks.
   B.   The lengths, widths, and shapes of blocks shall be such as are
appropriate for the locality and the type of development contemplated, but
block lengths in residential areas shall not exceed six hundred feet or twelve
times the minimum lot width required in the zoning district.
   C.   In long blocks the city council may require the reservation of an
easement through the block to accommodate utilities, drainage facilities,
emergency access, or pedestrian traffic.
(Ord. 1179 § 4.3(A)(4), 1987)
16.16.170 Streets—Access to arterial streets.
   Where a residential subdivision borders on or contains an existing or
proposed arterial street, the city may require that access to such streets be
limited by one of the following means:
   A.   The subdivision of lots so that the lots back onto the arterial street
and front onto a parallel local street; no direct access shall be provided from
the arterial street.
   B.   A series of cul-de-sacs, U-shaped streets, or short loops entered from
and designed generally at right angles to such a parallel street, with the rear
lines of their terminal lots backing onto the arterial street.
   C.   A marginal access or service road (separated from the arterial street
by a planting or landscaped strip and having access thereto at suitable
points).
(Ord. 1179 § 4.3(A)(5), 1987)
16.16.180 Street naming requirements.
   Street names shall be sufficiently different in sound and in spelling from
other street names in the city so as not to cause confusion. A street which
exists or is planned as a continuation of an existing street shall bear the
same name. Street names shall be proposed by the subdivider as per Section
16.12.030 of this code, but shall be approved by the city council as part of
the final plat.
(Ord. 1179 § 4.3(A)(6), 1987)
16.16.190 Street names and regulatory signs requirements.
   The subdivider shall install all street name signs and regulatory signs
(e.g. yield, stop, speed limit, bicycle route, etc.) as required by the city
engineer. The subdivider shall install all street signs before issuance of
certificates of occupancy for any residence on the streets approved. Street
name signs are to be placed at all intersections within or abutting the
subdivision, the type and location of which are to be approved by the city
engineer.
(Ord. 1179 § 4.3(A)(7), 1987)
16.16.200 Street light requirements.
   Installation of street lights shall be required in accordance with design
and specification standards approved by the city engineer. Lighting on local
and collector streets shall maintain a minimum of .4 lumens at any given point
along the street right-of-way while .7 lumens shall be maintained along
arterial streets. In addition, light standards shall be spaced such that each
intersection is provided at least one light standard.
(Ord. 1179 § 4.3(A)(8), 1987)
16.16.210 Construction of streets—Dead-end streets.
   A.   The arrangement of streets shall provide for the continuation of
principal streets between adjacent properties when such continuation is
necessary for convenient movement of traffic, effective fire protection, for
efficient provision of utilities, and where such continuation is in accordance
with the city general plan. If the adjacent property is undeveloped and the
street must be a dead-end street temporarily, the right-of-way shall be
extended to the property line. A temporary cul-de-sac or T- or L-shaped
turnabout shall be provided on all temporary dead-end streets, with the
notation on the subdivision plat that land outside the normal street right-of-
way shall revert to abuttors whenever the street is continued. The city may
limit the length of temporary dead-end streets in accordance with the design
standards of these regulations.
   B.   Where a street does not extend to the boundary of the subdivision and
its continuation is not required by the city for access to adjoining property,
its terminus shall normally not be nearer to such boundary than fifty feet.
However, the city may require the reservation of an appropriate easement to
accommodate drainage facilities, pedestrian traffic, or utilities. A cul-de-sac
shall be provided at the end of a permanent dead-end street in accordance with
construction standards and specifications, but in no case shall such cul-de-sac
exceed six hundred feet in length, unless special approval is granted by the
fire department and any other appropriate department.
   C.   For greater convenience to traffic and more effective police and fire
protection, permanent dead-end streets shall, in general, be limited in length
in accordance with the design standards of these regulations.
(Ord. 1179 § 4.3(A)(9), 1987)
16.16.220 Streets—General design standards.
   In order to provide for streets of suitable location, width, and improvement
to accommodate prospective traffic and afford satisfactory access to police,
fire protection, sanitation, and street-maintenance equipment, and to
coordinate streets so as to compose a convenient system and avoid undue
hardships to adjoining properties,
Table 1, codified at the end of this chapter, sets forth design standards for
streets.
(Ord. 1397.15.25 § 6, 2022; Ord. 1179 § 4.3(B)(1), 1987)
16.16.230 Street and sidewalk surfacing and improvement requirements.
   A.   After sewer and water utilities have been installed by the developer,
the applicant shall construct curbs and gutters and shall surface or cause to
be surfaced roadways to the widths prescribed in this title. The surfacing
shall be of such a character as is suitable for the expected traffic and in
harmony with similar improvements in the surrounding areas. Types of pavement
shall be as determined by the city engineer. Adequate provision shall be made
for culverts, drains, and bridges.
   B.   All street pavements, shoulders, drainage and utility improvements and
structures, curbs, turnarounds, and sidewalks shall conform to the Uniform
Standard Details Specifications adopted by the city council, with provisions
for handicapped accessibility as required by A.R.S. Sections 34-404 through 34-
412, and shall be incorporated into the construction plans required to be
submitted by the developer for plat approval.
(Ord. 1179 § 4.3(B)(2), 1987)
16.16.240 Railroads and limited access highways.
   Railroad rights-of-way and limited access highways where so located as to
affect the subdivision of adjoining lands shall be treated as follows:
   A.   In residential districts a buffer strip at least twenty-five feet in
depth in addition to the normal depth of the lot required in the district shall
be provided adjacent to the railroad right-of-way or limited access highway.
This strip shall be part of the platted lots and shall be designated on the
plat: “This strip is reserved for screening. The placement of structures,
except for street signs and lighting, hereon is prohibited.”
   B.   In districts zoned for business, commercial, or industrial uses, the
nearest street extending parallel or approximately parallel to the railroad
shall, wherever practicable, be at a sufficient distance therefrom to ensure
suitable depth for commercial or industrial sites.
   C.   Streets parallel to the railroad when intersecting a street which
crosses the railroad at grade shall, to the extent practicable, be a distance
of at least one hundred fifty feet from the railroad right-of-way. Such a
distance shall be determined with due consideration of the minimum distance
required for future separation of grades by means of appropriate approach
gradients.
(Ord. 1179 § 4.3(B)(3))
16.16.250 Required angles of intersections.
   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible at right
angles. A proposed intersection of two new streets at an angle of less than
seventy-five degrees shall not be acceptable. An oblique street should be
curved approaching an intersection and should be approximately at right angles
for at least one hundred feet therefrom. Not more than two streets shall
intersect at any one point unless specifically approved by the planning and
zoning commission.
(Ord. 1179 § 4.3(B)(4))
16.16.260 Widening and realignment of existing streets.
   Where a subdivision borders an existing narrow street or when the general
plan or Title 17 indicates plans for realignment or widening a street that
would require the use of some of the land in the subdivision, the applicant
shall be required to improve and dedicate at his/her expense such areas for
widening or realignment of such streets. Such streets shall be improved and
dedicated by the applicant at his/her own expense to the full width as required
by these subdivision regulations. Land reserved for any road purposes may not
be counted in satisfying yard requirements of Title 17, whether the land is to
be dedicated to the municipality in fee simple or as an easement for future
expansion or as a private street.
(Ord. 1179 § 4.3(B)(5))
16.16.270 Sidewalks and curbs—Required improvements.
   A.   Sidewalks shall be included within the dedicated nonpavement right-of-
way of all streets as illustrated on
Table 2, codified at the end of this chapter.
   B.   Concrete curbs and gutters are required for all streets. Collector and
arterial streets shall require six inch vertical curbs.
   C.   Handicapped ramps shall be provided on all sidewalks at all street
intersections; ramps will be offset from the sidewalk entering the street a
distance equal to the width of the sidewalk.
   D.   Sidewalks shall be improved as required in Section
16.16.230 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1179 § 4.4)
16.16.280 Drainage, storm sewers and retention basins—General requirements.
   A.   The city will not recommend for approval any plat of a subdivision
which does not make adequate provision for storm or floodwater runoff channels
or basins. The stormwater drainage system shall be separate and independent of
any sanitary sewer system. Storm drainage shall be accommodated in the streets,
gutters or retention basins unless otherwise indicated by the city engineer.
Subsurface drainage systems shall be discouraged, but where storm sewers are
required, the cost shall be borne by the developer for storm sewers to a size
of twenty-four inches; if over twenty-four inches in size and determined to be
for benefit outside of the subdivision, the costs may be shared, as determined
by the city council, but only for that portion determined to be of benefit
outside the subdivision.
   B.   All provisions for drainage control shall comply with the regulations
of the city storm drainage master plan and drainage policy, adopted as
ordinance, as it from time to time may be amended.
   C.   The city council may, when it deems necessary for the health, safety,
or welfare of the present and future population of the area and necessary to
the conservation of water, drainage, and sanitary facilities, prohibit the
subdivision of any portion of the property which lies within any one-hundred-
year floodplain as determined by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA). Any development that may be permitted in the floodplain areas shall
comply with the floodplain regulations for the city.
   D.   Floodway areas shall be preserved from any and all destruction or
damage resulting from clearing, grading, or dumping of earth, waste material,
or stumps, except at the discretion of the city council.
(Ord. 1179 § 4.5(A))
16.16.290 Retention requirements.
   A.   All provisions for stormwater retention and all retention requirements
and retention basin capacity calculations shall comply with the regulations of
the city storm drainage master plan and drainage policy, as it from time to
time may be amended.
   B.   Dedicated retention basins will be part of the city's park and open
space system. Nondedicated retention basins shall be maintained by the owner.
All nondedicated retention basin areas shall be designated as easement areas
for retention purposes and shall have a recorded protective covenant requiring
perpetual maintenance.
   C.   Two or more developers may join together to provide a common retention
facility. A letter of agreement signed by all developers participating in the
common retention area must be presented to the city engineer, and the recorded
plat shall indicate that the retention area is a joint facility. The joint
recreation area must meet all criteria as a single area.
(Ord. 1179 § 4.5(B))
16.16.300 Dedication of drainage easements—Requirements.
   A.   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway,
channel, or stream, a stormwater easement or drainage right-of-way shall be
provided conforming substantially to the lines of the watercourse, and of the
width and construction, or both, as will be adequate for the purpose. Whenever
possible, it is desirable that the drainage be maintained by an open channel
with landscaped banks and adequate width for maximum potential volume of flow.
   B.   Where topography or other conditions are such as to make impractical
the inclusion of drainage facilities within road rights-of-way, perpetual,
unobstructed easements of at least fifteen feet in width for such drainage
facilities shall be provided across property outside the road lines and with
satisfactory access to the road. Easements shall be indicated on the plat.
Drainage easements shall be carried from the road to a natural watercourse or
to other drainage facilities.
   C.   When a proposed drainage system will carry water across private land
outside the subdivision, appropriate drainage rights must be secured and
indicated on the plat.
   D.   The applicant shall dedicate, either in fee or by drainage or
conservation easement, land on both sides of existing watercourses to a
distance to be determined by the city council.
   E.   Low-lying lands along watercourses subject to flooding or overflowing
during storm periods, whether or not included in areas for dedication, shall be
preserved and retained in their natural state as drainage ways. A hydrology
report and construction drawings which preserve the flow characteristics of the
drainageway may allow construction within the low-lying land.
(Ord. 1179 § 4.5(C))
16.16.310 Water facility and fire hydrant requirements.
   A.   The subdivider shall install adequate water facilities (including fire
hydrants) subject to the specifications of the Arizona Water Company and the
city engineer. All water mains shall be at least six inches in diameter.
   B.   Water main extensions shall be approved by the Arizona Water Company
and city engineer.
   C.   To facilitate the above, the location of all fire hydrants and all
water supply improvements shall be shown on the preliminary plat, and the cost
of installing same shall be included in the performance bond to be furnished by
the developer.
   D.   Fire hydrants shall be required for all subdivisions. Fire hydrants
shall be located no more than three hundred feet apart in multifamily,
commercial and industrial developments and no more than six hundred feet apart
in single-family residential development, shall be within three hundred feet of
any structure, and shall be approved by the city fire marshal. To eliminate
future street openings, all underground utilities for fire hydrants, together
with the fire hydrants themselves, and all other supply improvements shall be
installed before any final paving of a street shown on the subdivision plat.
(Ord. 1397.16.2 § 1 (part), 2 (part), 1994; Ord. 1179 § 4.6)
16.16.320 Sewer and facility requirements in general.
   The applicant shall install sanitary sewer facilities in a manner prescribed
by the uniform standard details and specifications and the city engineer.
(Ord. 1179 § 4.7(A))
16.16.330 Public sewerage required.
   For all subdivisions with any lot less than one acre in size and/or the
nearest existing sewer line within five thousand two hundred and eighty feet,
sanitary sewage facilities shall connect with the public sanitary sewage
system. Sewers shall be installed to serve each lot, to grades and sizes
required by the ADHS Bulletin #11 and the city engineer.
(Ord. 1179 § 4.6(B))
16.16.340 Private sewerage systems when.
   Where public sanitary sewage systems are not within 5,280 feet the city may
allow one of the following alternatives:
   A.   Central sewage system, the maintenance cost to be assessed against each
property benefitted. Where plans for future public sanitary sewage systems
exist, the applicant shall install the sewer lines, laterals and mains to be in
permanent conformance with such plans and ready for connection to the public
sewer mains; or
   B.   Individual disposal systems, provided the applicant shall install
sanitary sewer lines, laterals and mains from the street curb to a point in the
subdivision boundary where a future connection with the public sewer main shall
be made. Sewer lines shall be laid from the house to the street line, and a
connection shall be made available in the home to connect from the individual
disposal system to the sewer system when the public sewers become available.
Such sewer systems shall be capped until ready for use and shall conform to all
plans for installation of the public sewer system, where such exist, and shall
be ready for connection to the public sewer main.
(Ord. 1179 § 4.6(C))
16.16.350 Mandatory connection to public sewer system when.
   If a public sanitary sewer is installed within three hundred feet of an
individual lot, property, or sewer system, the owner thereof shall be required
to connect to the sewer for the purpose of disposing of waste, and it is
unlawful for any such owner or occupant to maintain upon any property the use
of an individual sewage disposal system thereafter.
(Ord. 1179 § 4.6(D))
16.16.360 Individual sewage system disposal requirements.
   If public sewer facilities are not available and individual disposal systems
are proposed, minimum lot areas shall be one acre and approval shall be by the
city engineer. The individual disposal system, including the size of septic
tanks and size of tile fields or other secondary treatment device, shall be
approved by the Pinal County health department and/or ADHS.
(Ord. 1179 § 4.6(E))
16.16.370 Design criteria for sanitary sewers.
   A.   Sanitary sewer systems should be designed for the ultimate drainage
basin population. Consideration should be given to current zoning regulations,
and approved planning and zoning reports where applicable. Sewer capacities
should be adequate to handle the anticipated maximum hourly quantity of sewage
and industrial waste together with an adequate allowance for infiltration and
other extraneous flow. The unit design flows presented hereinafter should be
adequate in each case for the particular type of development indicated. Sewers
shall be designed for the total tributary area using the criteria codified as
Table 4 at the end of this chapter.
   B.   The design factors codified in
Table 4 shall apply to watersheds of three hundred acres or less. Design
factors for watersheds larger than three hundred acres and smaller than one
thousand acres shall be computed on the basis of a linear decrease from the
applicable design factor for an area of three hundred acres to a design factor
of .01 cfs/acre for an area of one thousand acres unless otherwise directed by
the city engineer. Design factors for watersheds larger than one thousand acres
shall be .01 cfs/acre unless otherwise directed by the city engineer.
   1.   The diameter of sewers proposed shall not exceed the diameter of the
existing or proposed outlet, whichever is applicable, unless otherwise approved
by the city engineer;
   2.   No public sanitary sewer line shall be less than eight inches in
diameter, unless sewer line is less than four hundred feet long and cannot be
extended;
   3.   All sewers shall be designed to give mean velocities, when flowing
full, of not less than two feet per second. All velocity and flow calculations
shall be based on the Manning Formula. The slopes shall be minimum for the size
indicated;
   4.   All sewers shall be laid with straight alignment between manholes,
unless otherwise directed or approved by the city engineer;
   5.   Manholes shall be installed at the end of each line; at all changes in
grade, size or alignment; at all intersections; and at distances not greater
than three hundred feet for sewers less than eighteen inches, and four hundred
feet for sewers eighteen inches in diameter and larger;
   6.   The difference in elevation between any incoming sewer and the manhole
invert shall not exceed twelve inches except where required to match crowns.
The use of drop manholes will require approval by the city engineer. The
minimum inside diameter of the manholes shall conform to those specified by the
city engineer. When a smaller sewer joins a larger one, the crown of the
smaller sewer shall not be lower than that of the larger one. The minimum drop
through manholes at bends and turns shall be 0.2 feet;
   7.   Manhole covers shall be sealed covers with inverted vented dishes;
   8.   Sanitary sewers shall be located within street or alley rights-of-way
unless topography dictates otherwise. When located in easements on private
property, access shall be provided to all manholes. A manhole shall be provided
at each street or alley crossing. End lines shall be extended to provide access
from street or alley rights-of-way where possible. Imposed loading shall be
considered in all locations. Not less than 3.0 feet of cover shall be provided
over top of pipe in street and alley rights-of- way or other areas;
   9.   Cleanouts and lampholes will not be permitted;
   10.   There shall be no physical connection between a public or private
potable water supply system and sewer which will permit the passage of any
sewage or polluted water into the potable supply. Sewers shall be kept removed
from water supply wells or other water supply sources and structures;
   11.   A minimum horizontal distance, from outside to outside of pipewall, of
six feet shall be maintained between parallel water and sewer lines. At points
where sewers cross water mains, the sewer shall be constructed of cast iron
pipe or encased in concrete for a distance of ten feet in each direction from
the crossing, measured perpendicular to the water line. This will not be
required when the water main is at least two feet above the sewer line;
   12.   These design criteria are not intended to cover extraordinary
situations. Deviations will be allowed and may be required in those instances
where considered justified by the city engineer.
(Ord. 1179 § 4.6(F))
16.16.380 Utility location and easement requirements.
   A.   All utility facilities, including but not limited to gas, electric
power, except electrical lines exceeding thirteen KV capacity, telephone and
cable television shall be located underground throughout the subdivision. All
utility facilities existing throughout the subdivision shall be located in
either the street right-of-way and its adjacent easements or in a dedicated
alley, except where easements between alleys and street rights-of-way are
necessary to connect the utilities as approved by the city. Underground service
connections to the street property line of each platted lot shall be installed
at the subdivider's expense. At the discretion of the city council, the
requirement for service connections to each lot may be waived in the case of
adjoining lots to be retained in single ownership and intended to be developed
for the same primary use.
   B.   Proper coordination shall be established between the subdivider and the
applicable utility companies for the continuation of public utility easements
established in adjoining properties, when rights- of-way or dedicated alleys
are not appropriate.
   C.   Where topographical, locational or other conditions are such as to make
impractical the inclusion of public utilities within rights-of-way or dedicated
alleys, perpetual unobstructed easements of at least ten feet in width shall be
provided. Easements shall be indicated on the plat.
(Ord. 1179 § 4.8)
16.16.390 Public land reservation requirements.
   A.   Where a proposed park, playground, open space, bikeway or other public
use shown on the general plan is located in whole or in part in a subdivision,
the commission and the city council shall require that such area or areas be
shown on plats in accordance with the requirements specified in this section.
Such area or areas shall be reserved to the city by the subdivider if the city
council approves such reservation.
   B.   The commission shall require that plats show sites of a character,
extent and location suitable for the development of a park, playground, or
other stated public purposes.
   C.   In all new residential subdivisions the city may require that seven
percent of the gross area be reserved for public recreation space, school sites
or other public use with such percentage being in addition to property reserved
for streets, alleys, easements or other public ways.
   D.   The city or other public agency shall enter into an agreement on the
method of acquiring such reserved land area prior to approval of the final
plat.
(Ord. 1179 § 4.9)
Table 1
Street Design Standards
Minimum Right-of-Way Width Dimensions in Feet
Minimum Right-of-Way Width                                            Dimensions
                                                                      in Feet
Alley                                                                 20
Local streets*
   1.   Urban 1/on-street parking allowed with attached sidewalk44
   2.   Urban 1a/on-street parking allowed with detached sidewal50
   3.   Urban 2/on-street parking not allowed with attached side38lk
   4.   Urban 2a/on-street parking not allowed with detached sid44alk
   5.   Rural/on-street parking not allowed                     40
   6.   Cul-de-sac                                              #
   7.   Local half street                                       30
Minor collector                                                       60
Major collector                                                       80
Minor arterial                                                        110
Principal arterial                                                    140
Expressway                                                            300
Minimum Pavement Width (back of curb to back of curb)
Alley                                                                 20
Local streets                                                         32
   1.   Urban 1 & 1a                                            26
   2.   Urban 2 & 2a                                            24
   3.   Rural                                                   ##
   4.   Cul-de-sac
Minor collector streets                                               36
Major collector streets                                               50
Minor arterial streets                                                76
Principal arterial streets                                            104
Expressway                                                            138
Design Speed
Local - 25 mph                                                        -
Minor collector - 35 mph                                              -
Minor arterial - 45 mph                                               -
Principal arterial - 55 mph                                           -
Expressway - 75 mph                                                   -
Minimum Curve Radius
All local streets                                                     150
All collector streets                                                 400
Minor arterial                                                        575
Principal arterial                                                    750
Minimum Lengths of Tangents Between Reverse Curves**
Local, alleys two lanes                                               150
All collectors with two lanes                                         300
Minor arterial                                                        270
Principal arterial (four lanes)                                       280
Minimum Sight Distance
Street - street intersection                                          40
Street - driveway intersection                                        15
Cul-de-sac
Right-of-way diameter                                                 107
Pavement diameter                                                     96
Center island diameter (if required)                                  30
Maximum length                                                        600
Curb Radii (from back of curb)
Local half street                                                     20
Local                                                                 20
All collectors                                                        30
Major arterial                                                        50
Minor arterial                                                        50
* Will require a minimum ten-foot utility easement outside ROW on each side of
street.
** Length may be reduced with curves of radii of 1,000 feet or greater.
# Right-of-width as required by Section
15.32.090 with a terminus roadway radius of 53.5 feet
## Pavement width as required by Section
15.32.110 with a terminus roadway radius of 48 feet
 
Table 2
Sidewalk Requirements
 
All arterials     Both sides, six feet wide
All collectors    Both sides, five feet wide
All local streets Both sides, five feet wide
 
Table 4
Design Factors
Wastewater Discharge Design Factors
Land Use Density (U/AC) Persons/DU Wastewater Discharge (gallons/person/day)
Wastewater Discharge Design Factors
Land Use               Density (U/AC) Persons/DU Wastewater Discharge (gallons/
                                                 person/day)
Urban Ranch            1              3.5        90
Rural Ranch            0.3            3.5        90
Suburban Homestead     0.5            3.5        90
Single-Family (R-1)    4.5            3.1        90
Manufactured/Park Home 8              2.0        90
Patio Home             8              2.2        90
Duplex-Fourplex        9              2.2        90
Townhome               12             2.2        90
Condominium            20             2.2        90
Apartments             20             2.2        90
Non-Residential Uses                             As directed by City Engineer
 
(Ord. 3416 §§ 3, 4, 2024; Ord. 1397.15.25 §§ 7-9, 2022; Ord. 1397.17.34 § 3,
2009: Ord. 1397.17.33 § 3, 2006)
Chapter 16.20
IMPROVEMENT GUARANTEES
Sections:
Article I. Financial Guarantees and Improvements
16.20.010   Financial guarantee required—Statutory authority—Approval by
council.
16.20.020   Completion of improvements.
16.20.030   Temporary improvement requirements.
16.20.040   Government units exempt from certain provisions.
16.20.050   Consequences of failure to complete improvements.
16.20.060   Acceptance of dedication and maintenance requirements.
Article II. Inspection of Improvements
16.20.070   General procedures and fees.
16.20.080   On-site representative—Role and authority.
16.20.090   Release or reduction of financial guarantee when.
Article III. Deferral or Waiver of Required Improvements
16.20.100   Deferral or waiver when.
16.20.110   Applicant to pay share of future improvement costs when.
Article IV. Issuance of Building Permits and Certificates of Occupancy
16.20.120   City engineer approval required.
16.20.130   Extent of improvements required.
16.20.140   Ratio of improvements required prior to issuance.
Article V. Building Permits for Lots Outside Approved Subdivisions
16.20.150   Planning director review required when.
16.20.160   Authority of city regulations.
16.20.170   Planning director to certify that requirements met.
Article I. Financial Guarantees and Improvements
16.20.010 Financial guarantee required—Statutory authority—Approval by council.
   A.   Except as permitted in subsection C, prior to recording of the final
subdivision plat, the city council shall require that the applicant provide a
financial guarantee, such as a performance bond, an irrevocable letter of
credit, assurance of construction of subdivision improvements, funds in escrow,
or other guarantee acceptable to the city, in an amount sufficient to secure to
the city the satisfactory construction, installation and dedication of the
required improvements. The financial guarantee shall also secure all lot
improvements on the individual lots of the subdivision as required in this
title. The amount of financial guarantee shall be one hundred percent of the
cost of the installation and materials necessary to complete the subdivision as
required by this title, including, but not limited to, street improvements,
street lights, sidewalks, perimeter walls, drainage facilities, water and sewer
infrastructure, site grading and landscaping.
   B.   The financial guarantee shall comply with all statutory requirements
and shall be satisfactory to the city attorney as to form, sufficiency, and
manner of execution, as set forth in this title. The period within which
required improvements must be completed shall be specified by the city council
in the resolution approving the final subdivision plat and shall be
incorporated in the financial guarantee and shall not, in any event, exceed
three years from the date of final approval. The city council may, in its
discretion, grant an extension of the completion date of the guarantee for a
maximum period of two additional years, provided that an updated cost estimate
for the remaining subdivision improvements that have not yet been completed
shall be provided, and the amount of the financial security adjusted if
necessary to adequately secure such improvements in conjunction with the
approval of the extension.
   C.   City council may approve a development agreement permitting an existing
or new subdivision applicant to delay or modify the financial security
requirement set forth in this section. The development agreement shall contain
provisions deemed necessary or appropriate by city council to ensure that
purchasers of lots have adequate assurance that required subdivision
infrastructure necessary to serve that lot will be installed at or prior to
development of the lot, including but not limited to provisions that:
   1.   Prohibit the sale of any lots, or block of lots, without prior approval
of the city manager, or deputy city manager, and planning director, until such
time as:
   a.   Financial securities have been posted for:
   i.   All required subdivision improvements; or
   ii.   That portion of the subdivision improvements deemed necessary by the
city to serve the portion of the subdivision being sold in accordance with a
phasing plan approved by the planning director and city engineer; or
   b.   The subdivision improvements, or phased portion thereof, have been
completed and accepted by the city, and a maintenance bond meeting the
requirements of Section
16.20.090(D) has been posted.
   2.   Prohibit the issuance of any building permits until such time as:
   a.   Financial securities have been posted for:
   i.   All required subdivision improvements, or
   ii.   That portion of the subdivision improvements deemed necessary by the
city to serve the portion of the subdivision being sold in accordance with a
phasing plan approved by the planning director and city engineer; or
   b.   The subdivision improvements, or phased portion thereof, have been
completed and accepted by the city and a maintenance bond meeting the
requirements of Section
16.20.090(D) has been posted.
   3.   Allow for the city to require the construction of all, or a portion, of
the required subdivision improvements as a condition to allowing for non-
financial security for the subdivision plat, including but not limited to:
   a.   Perimeter walls,
   b.   Perimeter landscaping,
   c.   Perimeter streets and sidewalks.
   4.   Permits the partial release of assurances as discrete portions of
subdivision infrastructure have been completed, provided that the remaining
assurance is sufficient, in the opinion of the city engineer, to complete all
remaining required improvements.
(Ord. 1397.16.03 § 1, 2017; Ord. 1179 § 5.1(A), 1987)
16.20.020 Completion of improvements.
   As an alternative to requiring a contractor's performance bond, the city
council, at its discretion, may allow the procedures for completion of
improvements described in Section
16.12.270 of this title.
(Ord. 1179 § 5.1(B), 1987)
16.20.030 Temporary improvement requirements.
   The applicant shall build and pay for all costs of temporary improvements
required by the city council and shall maintain same for the period specified
by the city council. Prior to construction of any temporary facility or
improvement, the developer shall file with the city engineer a separate,
suitable, financial guarantee for temporary facilities, which guarantee shall
ensure that the temporary facilities will be properly constructed, maintained
and removed.
(Ord. 1179 § 5.1(C), 1987)
16.20.040 Governmental units exempt from certain provisions.
   Governmental units to which these financial guarantee and contract
provisions apply may file in lieu of the contract or financial guarantee a
certified resolution or ordinance from officers or agencies authorized to act
in their behalf, agreeing to comply with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 1179 § 5.1(D), 1987)
16.20.050 Consequences of failure to complete improvements.
   For subdivisions for which no financial guarantee has been posted, if the
improvements are not completed within the period specified by the city council
in the resolution approving the plat, subject to Section
16.12.270 of this title, the approval shall be deemed to have expired. In those
cases where a financial guarantee has been posted and required improvements
have not been installed within the terms of the guarantee, the city may
thereupon declare the guarantee to be in default, call on the guarantee, and
require that all the improvements be installed regardless of the extent of the
building development at the time the financial guarantee is declared to be in
default.
(Ord. 1179 § 5.1(E), 1987)
16.20.060 Acceptance of dedication and maintenance requirements.
   Acceptance of dedication of land for streets, public areas, and easements
shall be by resolution of the city council. The resolution approving the final
plat shall constitute such acceptance, provided a statement of dedication is
placed on the plat. The approval by the city council of a subdivision plat
shall not be deemed to constitute or imply the acceptance of maintenance by the
city on any street or easement improvements shown on the plat. The city council
may require the plat to be endorsed with appropriate notes to this effect. A
separate resolution accepting improvements and maintenance shall be required
following installation of all improvements.
(Ord. 1179 § 5.1(F), 1987)
Article II. Inspection of Improvements
16.20.070 General procedures and fees.
   The city council shall provide for inspection of required improvements
during construction and ensure their satisfactory completion. The applicant
shall pay to the city an inspection fee of three percent of the amount of the
financial guarantee or the estimated cost of required improvements, and the
subdivision plat shall not be signed by the mayor unless the fee has been paid
at the time of approval. If the city engineer finds, upon inspection that any
of the required improvements have not been constructed in accordance with the
city's construction standards and specifications, the applicant shall be
responsible for completing the improvements. Wherever the cost of improvements
is covered by a performance bond, the applicant and the bonding company shall
be severally and jointly liable for completing the improvements according to
the specifications.
(Ord. 1179 § 5.2(A), 1987)
16.20.080 On-site representative—Role and authority.
   The developer shall designate, in writing, the name of the agent who shall
be available at all times during its progress and who shall not be replaced
without a written notice to the city engineer. The agent will be the
developer's representative at the site and shall have the authority to act on
the developer's behalf.
(Ord. 1179 § 5.2(B), 1987)
16.20.090 Release or reduction of financial guarantee when.
   A.   The city council will not accept dedication of required improvements,
nor release nor reduce any financial guarantee, until the city engineer has
submitted a certificate stating that all required improvements have been
satisfactorily completed and until the applicant's engineer or surveyor has
certified to the city engineer through submission of detailed “as-built”
construction plans of the subdivision, prepared on mylar, indicating location,
dimensions, materials, and other information required by the city council or
city engineer, that the layout of the line and grade of all public improvements
is in accordance with the construction plans for the subdivision and that a
title insurance policy has been furnished to, and approved by, the city
attorney indicating that the improvements shall have been completed, are ready
for dedication to the city and are free and clear of any and all liens and
encumbrances. Upon such approval and recommendation, the city council shall
thereafter accept the improvements for dedication and maintenance in accordance
with the established procedure.
   B.   A financial guarantee may be reduced upon actual dedication of public
improvements and then only to the ratio that the public improvement dedicated
bears to the total public improvements for the plat. In no event shall a
financial guarantee be reduced below twenty-five percent of the principal
amount, unless all improvements have been dedicated, in which case they may be
reduced to zero; provided a maintenance bond is posted.
   C.   The applicant shall be required to maintain all improvements within the
subdivision and/or on the individual subdivided lots, until acceptance of the
improvements by the city council. If there are any certificates of occupancy on
a street where improvements have not been dedicated to the city, the city may
on twelve hours notice effect emergency repairs and charge same to applicant.
   D.   The applicant shall be required to file a maintenance guarantee with
the city council prior to dedication of the improvements, in the amount of ten
percent of the improvement costs in a form satisfactory to the city attorney,
in order to assure the satisfactory condition of the required improvements,
including all lot improvements on the individual subdivided lots for a period
of one year after date of their acceptance by the city council and dedication
of the improvements to the city council.
(Ord. 1179 § 5.2(C), 1987)
Article III. Deferral or Waiver of Required Improvements
16.20.100 Deferral or waiver when.
   The city council may defer or waive at the time of final approval, subject
to appropriate conditions, the provision of any or all improvements as, in its
judgment, are not requisite in the interests of the public health, safety, and
general welfare, or which are inappropriate because of inadequacy or lack of
connecting facilities.
(Ord. 1179 § 5.3(A), 1987)
16.20.110 Applicant to pay share of future improvement costs when.
   Whenever it is deemed necessary by the city council to defer the
construction of any improvement required herein because of incompatible grades,
future planning, inadequate or lack of connecting facilities, or for other
reasons identified by the city, the applicant shall pay his/her share of the
costs of the future improvements to the city prior to the signing of the final
subdivision plat, or the applicant may post a bond ensuring completion of the
improvements upon demand of the city council.
(Ord. 1179 § 5.3(B), 1987)
Article IV. Issuance of Building Permits and Certificates of Occupancy
16.20.120 City engineer approval required.
   No certificate of occupancy for any building in the subdivision shall be
issued prior to completion, inspection and approval by the city engineer, and
dedication of the same to the city of all utilities required to serve the
building for which a certificate of occupancy is requested.
(Ord. 1179 § 5.4(A), 1987)
16.20.130 Extent of improvements required.
   The extent of street improvements shall be adequate for vehicular access by
the prospective occupant and by police and fire protection equipment, prior to
the issuance of an occupancy permit.
(Ord. 1179 § 5.4(B), 1987)
16.20.140 Ratio of improvements required prior to issuance.
   No building permit shall be issued for the final ten percent of lots in a
subdivision (or if ten percent is less than two, for the final two lots of a
subdivision), until all public improvements required by the city council for
the plat have been fully completed and dedicated to the city.
(Ord. 1179 § 5.4(C), 1987)
Article V. Building Permits for Lots Outside Approved Subdivisions
16.20.150 Planning director review required when.
   If any lot or parcel is to be created within the city where the creation of
the lot or parcel does not require the use of the requirements and procedures
of Chapters
16.12 and
16.16 of this title, the owner of the lot or parcel to be created shall be
required to discuss with the planning director the lot or parcel creation to
determine the eventual ability to receive a building permit for the lot or
parcel.
(Ord. 1179 § 5.5(A), 1987)
16.20.160 Authority of city regulations.
   Regardless of subjectivity to Chapters
16.12 and
16.16 of this title, any newly created lot or parcel shall be subject to the
provisions of other city regulations, including Title 17 of this code.
(Ord. 1179 § 5.5(B), 1987)
16.20.170 Planning director to certify that requirements met.
   The planning director shall certify whether or not the newly created lot or
parcel meets all city requirements relative to receiving the building permit,
noting any conditions, if such exist.
(Ord. 1179 § 5.5(C), 1987)
Chapter 16.24
FEES AND PENALTIES
Sections:
Article I. Fees
16.24.010   Preliminary plat fee.
16.24.020   Final plat fee.
16.24.030   Inspection and engineering fees.
16.24.040   Recording fee.
16.24.050   Variance fee.
16.24.060   Annexation plat submittal fee.
Article II. Penalties
16.24.070   Violation—Penalty.
Article I. Fees
16.24.010 Preliminary plat fee.
   Each preliminary plat shall be accompanied by a fee of three hundred dollars
plus two dollars per lot payable to the city for the year of 1987 and three
hundred fifty dollars plus three dollars per lot for 1988 and subsequent years.
(Ord. 1397.16.2 §§ 1 (part), 2 (part), 1994)
16.24.020 Final plat fee.
   Final plat submittals shall be accompanied by a minimum fee of three hundred
dollars plus two dollars per lot for each lot in excess of ten lots for the
year 1987 and three hundred fifty dollars plus three dollars per lot for 1988.
Fees are payable to the city and are for the purpose of partially offsetting
cost incurred by the city for necessary plat review and shall be credited to
the city general fund.
(Ord. 1179 § 6.1(B), 1987)
16.24.030 Inspection and engineering fees.
   Fees for the city review of construction plans and inspection of subdivision
improvements as described in Section
16.20.070 of this code shall be submitted based upon three percent of the cost
of improvements, plus twenty dollars per specification sheet. Fees shall be
made payable to the city.
(Ord. 1179 § 6.1(C), 1987)
16.24.040 Recording fee.
   The recording fee shall be as determined by the county recorder. The fee is
to be submitted to the planning director after approval of the final plat and
made payable to Pinal County.
(Ord. 1179 § 6.1(D), 1987)
16.24.050 Variance fee.
   Each request for a variance from these regulations shall be accompanied by a
fee of one hundred dollars payable to the city. Each variance shall constitute
a separate request.
(Ord. 1179 § 6.1(E), 1987)
16.24.060 Annexation plat submittal fee.
   Each annexation plat submitted for consideration by the planning and zoning
commission separate from a subdivision plat shall be accompanied by a fee of
one hundred dollars.
(Ord. 1179 § 6.1(F), 1987)
Article II. Penalties
16.24.070 Violation—Penalty.
   Any and all persons who shall violate any of the provisions of this title or
fail to comply therewith, or who shall fail to comply with any lawful order or
regulation made thereunder, shall severally for each and every such violation
and noncompliance respectively, forfeit and pay a fine of not less than fifty
dollars, nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars, and/or may be imprisoned
not to exceed the time of four months for each offense, the violation
constituting a Class 2 misdemeanor under the Criminal Code of the laws of the
state of Arizona. In addition, the costs of any such action may be imposed at
the discretion of the court. The imposition of one penalty for any violation of
this title shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all
such persons shall be required to correct or remedy it to continue; and all
such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violations and defects
within a reasonable time; and each day that the prohibited condition is not
corrected or remedied shall constitute a separate offense; and the court shall
impose a fine on a per diem basis for each day that the violation is
maintained. Application of the above penalty shall not be held to preclude the
forced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Ord. 1179 § 6.2, 1987)
Title 17
ZONING*
*Editor's Note: Title 17 consists of Ordinance 1178 as revised on March 24,
1989; October 23, 1989; and February 6, 1990.
Chapters:
17.04   General Provisions
17.08   Administration
17.12   Definitions
17.14   Fees
17.16   Establishment of Zones
17.20   Residential Zones
17.24   Business Zones
17.28   Community Services Zone
17.30   Commercial Office Zone
17.32   Garden and Light Industrial Zone
17.36   General Industrial Zone
17.40   Planned Area Development Zone
17.44   Neighborhood Conservation District
17.48   Planned Area Development (P.A.D.)— Recreational Vehicle (RV) Park
Overlay Zoning District
17.52   General Building and Development Standards
17.54   Variances
17.56   Parking and Access
17.58   Miscellaneous Storage Standards and Handling of Hazardous Waste
17.60   Home Occupations
17.62   Historic Preservation
17.64   Nonconforming Uses
17.68   Administrative Procedures
17.72   Enforcement
Chapter 17.04
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sections:
17.04.010   Title cite.
17.04.020   Adoption.
17.04.030   Purpose of provisions.
17.04.040   Provisions to coordinate with general plan.
17.04.050   More restrictive regulation to govern in case of conflict.
17.04.060   Private agreements.
17.04.010 Title cite.
   This title shall be known and may be cited as the Casa Grande Zoning Title,
except that when cited herein, it shall be referred to as “this title.”
(Ord. 1178 § 1.1, 1987)
17.04.020 Adoption.
   This title is adopted as the city of Casa Grande's Zoning Title relating to
comprehensive planning and zoning, pursuant to provisions of Arizona law,
including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Section 9.462 and
9-462.01 to 9-462.07, inclusive, Arizona Statutes Revised, 1977.
(Ord. 1178 § 1.2, 1987)
17.04.030 Purpose of provisions.
   It is the intent and purpose of this title to protect the public health,
safety and general welfare of the community and the people of Casa Grande
through the establishment of minimum regulations governing development and use
of land. This title shall divide the city into districts and establish
regulations in regard to location, erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration and use of structures and land. The regulations are established to
promote orderly development and redevelopment; to provide adequate light, air
and access to property; to prevent congestion in the public rights-of-way; to
prevent overcrowding of land and undue concentration of structures by
regulating land, buildings, yards and density of population; to provide for
compatibility of different land uses; to provide for administration of this
title; to provide for amendments; to prescribe penalties for violation of the
regulations; and to define the powers and duties of the city staff, the
planning and zoning commission, the board of adjustment, and the city council
in relation to this title.
(Ord. 1178 § 1.3, 1987)
17.04.040 Provisions to coordinate with general plan.
   The enforcement of, amendments to, and the administration of this title
shall be accomplished in accordance with the recommendations contained in the
Casa Grande General Plan, as developed and amended on a regular basis by the
planning and zoning commission and city council for the city.
(Ord. 1178 § 1.4, 1987)
17.04.050 More restrictive regulations to govern in case of conflict.
   In the case of a conflict between this title and/or any part thereof, or any
other ordinance of the city, the more restrictive provision in all cases shall
apply.
(Ord. 1178 § 1.6, 1987)
17.04.060 Private agreements.
   The provisions of this title are not intended to interfere with or abrogate
or annul any easements, covenants or other agreements between private parties
when such easements, covenants or other agreements are more restrictive or
otherwise not in conflict with this title. When such easements, covenants or
other agreements are less restrictive or otherwise in conflict with this title,
this title shall prevail.
(Ord. 1178 § 1.7, 1987)
Chapter 17.08
ADMINISTRATION
Sections:
17.08.010   Administrative bodies designated.
Article I. Planning and Zoning Commission
17.08.020   Established.
17.08.030   Membership.
17.08.040   Term of office.
17.08.050   Organization—Meetings.
17.08.060   Duties.
Article II. Board of Adjustment
17.08.070   Established.
17.08.080   Membership.
17.08.090   Adoption of rules to govern—Meetings.
17.08.100   Appeals.
17.08.110   Duties.
Article III. Zoning Administrator
17.08.120   Established.
17.08.130   Duties.
Article IV. Historic Preservation Commission
17.08.140   Established.
17.08.150   Membership.
17.08.160   Term of office.
17.08.170   Duties.
17.08.010 Administrative bodies designated.
   The following will have primary responsibility of administering this title
as established and described in this title:
   A.   Planning and zoning commission;
   B.   Board of adjustment;
   C.   Zoning administrator.
   D.   Historic preservation commission.
(Ord. 1397.17.47 § 1, 2017; Ord. 1178 § 2.1, 1987)
Article I. Planning and Zoning Commission
17.08.020 Established.
   There is created a planning and zoning commission of the city which shall
promote the health, safety, order, beauty, prosperity and general welfare of
the city, and shall secure efficiency, economy and concerted effort in its
growth and development.
(Ord. 1178 § 2.2.1, 1987)
17.08.030 Membership.
   The planning and zoning commission shall consist of seven members, who shall
represent, insofar as possible, different professions or occupations. Members
shall be appointed by the mayor with the approval of a majority vote of the
city council. Insofar as possible, appointment of members shall be made so as
to constitute equal representation for all areas within the city. Members of
the planning and zoning commission shall serve without pay or compensation of
any kind except actual expenses and shall hold no other municipal or county
office, except that one member may serve on the board of adjustment.
(Ord. 1178 § 2.2.2, 1987)
17.08.040 Term of office.
   The term of office of members of the planning and zoning commission shall be
three years. Members may be reappointed. All members shall hold office until
their successors are appointed and qualified. Any member of the planning and
zoning commission may be removed by the mayor with the consent of a majority
vote of the city council for inefficiency, neglect of duty, malfeasance in
office, or other good and sufficient cause. Vacancies occurring other than
through the expiration of the term shall be filled for the unexpired term by
the mayor with the approval of a majority vote of the city council. Individuals
may not serve more than two consecutive three-year terms.
(Ord. 1178 § 2.2.3, 1987)
17.08.050 Organization—Meetings.
   A.   The planning and zoning commission shall elect a chairperson from the
members of the planning and zoning commission and shall create and fill such
other of its offices as it may determine. The chairperson shall be eligible for
reelection.
   B.   The planning and zoning commission shall hold at least one regular
meeting in each month at such time and place as may be fixed by the planning
and zoning commission. Special meetings of the planning and zoning commission
may be called by the chairperson, or by any three members of the planning and
zoning commission. A majority of the planning and zoning commission shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The planning and zoning
commission shall adopt such other rules and regulations governing its
organization and procedures as it may deem necessary, which rules and
regulations shall be subject to the approval of the governing body of the city
and shall not be inconsistent with the ordinances of the city and the laws of
Arizona. The planning and zoning commission shall keep a record of its
resolutions, transactions, findings and determinations, which record shall be a
public record.
(Ord. 1178 § 2.2.4, 1987)
17.08.060 Duties.
   It shall be the duty of the planning and zoning commission to:
   A.   Submit and recommend to the city council a zoning map dividing the city
into districts of such number, shape and area as may be determined best suited
to carry out the purposes of this title and with the provisions of Arizona
State Statutes and within such districts, it shall recommend such regulations
and restrictions concerning the erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair or use of buildings, structures or land as it shall deem to
be in the best interests of the city and its inhabitants;
   B.   Determine and recommend to the city council, decisions regarding the
classification of parcels of land from one zoning district to another;
   C.   Recommend to the city council changes in any of the regulations of this
title as to the use of land in any district, or as to the restrictions upon
buildings or structures, therein, by amendment to this title;
   D.   Review or delegate review of site plans for multiple-dwelling
residential structures or developments, commercial development and industrial
development and to determine the appropriate action and requirements for each
site plan of the development, as called for in this title;
   E.   Determine and make decisions regarding conditional uses as provided for
under this title;
   F.   Determine and make decisions regarding special temporary uses as
provided under this title;
   G.   Make, and recommend to the city council for adoption, a general plan to
guide the physical development of the city;
   H.   Make recommendations to the city council on matters regarding the
interpretation, enforcement, and administration of Title 16 of this code;
   I.   Provide recommendations to the city council concerning purchase of
sites for city buildings and other city facilities, the widening, opening
vacation or other changes to city streets or other public ways, the
beautification of city sites, streets, grounds or premises and other issues
that may tend to promote the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and
welfare in connection with the city's general plan.
(Ord. 1178 § 2.2.5, 1987)
Article II. Board of Adjustment
17.08.070 Established.
   A board of adjustment is established consisting of seven members to be
appointed by the mayor and with the consent of the city council.
(Ord. 1178 § 2.3.1, 1987)
17.08.080 Membership.
   Each member of the board of adjustment shall be appointed for a term of
three years. Vacancies shall be filled by appointment for the unexpired term of
any member whose term becomes vacant. Members shall not serve more than two
consecutive three-year terms. Before entering upon the duties of his or her
appointed position, each member may be required to take and subscribe an oath
to support the Constitution and laws of the United States and the state of
Arizona, and the ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 1397.17.56 § 1, 2022; Ord. 1178 § 2.3.2, 1987)
17.08.090 Adoption of rules to govern—Meetings.
   The board of adjustment shall adopt bylaws and rules governing its
organization and meetings, and the bylaws shall be subject to the approval of
the governing body of the city and shall not be inconsistent with the
ordinances of the city and the laws of the state. It shall be the duty of the
chairperson to call a meeting of the board to pass upon and determine all
variances and appeals and all other matters upon which it is the duty of the
board to act. The board shall meet at any other times as it may prescribe in
its rules. The chairperson of the board, or in his/her absence, the acting
chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All
meetings of the board shall be open to the public. The board shall keep minutes
of all its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or
if absent, or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of
its examination of other artificial actions, all of which shall be immediately
filed in the offices of the city clerk and shall be of public record.
(Ord. 1178 § 2.3.3, 1987)
17.08.100 Appeals.
   Appeals to the board of adjustment may be taken by any person, or by any
officer, department, board or commission of the city, aggrieved or affected by
the decision of any administrative officer. Such appeal shall be taken within
thirty days of the aggrievement by filing with the officer from whom the appeal
is taken, and with the board of adjustment, a notice of appeal specifying the
grounds. The officer from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transfer to
the board all of the papers constituting the record upon which the appealed
action is taken.
(Ord. 1178 § 2.3.4, 1987)
17.08.110 Duties.
   The board of adjustment shall be, and it is, endowed with the following
enumerated duties:
   A.   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged that an error exists in
any order, requirement, decision or determination made by an administrative
official in the enforcement of this title or of any ordinance adopted pursuant
to this title;
   B.   To vary or adjust the strict application of the requirements of this
title in the case of an irregular, narrow, shallow, or steep lot or other
physical condition applying to a lot or building as a result of which strict
application would result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship that
would deprive the owner of the reasonable use of the land or building involved.
Any such variance granted shall be granted according to the requirements and
procedures established by this title. Variances may be granted only for
hardships related to the physical characteristics of land. Variances to this
title related to permitted, accessory and/or conditional uses in any use
district shall not be allowed. No variance or adjustment in the strict
application of any provision of an ordinance may be granted unless:
   1.   Special circumstances or conditions, fully described in the board's
findings, are peculiar to the land or building for which the adjustment is
sought and do not apply generally to land or buildings in the neighborhood and
have not resulted from any act of the applicant subsequent to the adoption of
this title,
   2.   For reasons fully set forth in the board's finding, the circumstances
or conditions are such that the strict application of the provisions of this
title would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of the land or
building, the granting of the adjustment is necessary for the reasonable use
thereof and the adjustment as granted is the minimum adjustment that will
accomplish this purpose, and
   3.   The granting of the adjustment is in harmony with the general purpose
and intent of this title and will not be injurious to the neighborhood or
otherwise detrimental to the public welfare;
   C.   To grant exceptions and variances upon request where, after a showing
that an illegal construction or a nonconforming building or use existed for a
period of at least five years in violation of zoning ordinances and the city,
with knowledge of the existence of the condition, has not taken any steps
toward elimination of the violations.
   D.   To hear and decide appeals regarding required exactions and dedications
in accordance with the provisions of Section 17.68.380.
   E.   To hear and decide applications for:
   1.   Temporary use permits in accordance with the provisions of Subsection
17.68.210(I).
   2.   Special use permits in accordance with the provisions of Sections 110
and 410.1 of the Sign Code of the City of Casa Grande (as previously adopted by
Casa Grande Ordinance 583).
   3.   Comprehensive sign plan in accordance with the provisions of Section
606 of the Sign Code of the City of Casa Grande (as previously adopted by Casa
Grande Ordinance 583)
   4.   The board may, by a simple majority vote of the members present,
approve, deny or table applications for temporary use permits, special use
permits or Comprehensive Sign Plans.
(Ord. 1397.17.43 § 1, 2012; Ord. 1178 § 2.3.5, 1987)
Article III. Zoning Administrator
17.08.120 Established.
   The staff position of zoning administrator shall be, and is established for
the general and specific administration of this title. The planning and
development director shall serve as the zoning administrator but may delegate
such duties as noted in Section
17.08.130. If the duties are delegated, the zoning administrator shall perform
such duties as set forth in this title under the direction of the planning and
development director.
(Ord. 1178 § 2.4.1, 1987)
17.08.130 Duties.
   It shall be the responsibility of the zoning administrator to preform the
following duties:
   A.   Receive, process, record and administer all requests for approvals and
permits, as governed by this title;
   B.   Advise and recommend to the planning and zoning commission, the board
of adjustment and the city council regarding requests for approvals and permits
as required by this title;
   C.   Direct such inspections, observations and analyses of any and all
erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair or use of buildings,
structures or land within the city relating to the regulations and restrictions
as set forth by this title;
   D.   To take action as is necessary for the enforcement of this title
relating to violations of the regulations and restrictions;
   E.   To pass upon all building permits to determine if the proposed
construction, remodeling or alterations are in conformity with the provisions
of this title.
(Ord. 1178 § 2.4.2, 1987)
Article IV. Historic Preservation Commission
17.08.140 Established.
   There is created a historic preservation commission of the city that serves
to protect, enhance and perpetuate the city’s landmarks and historic districts
for the economic, cultural, educational and general welfare of the public.
(Ord. 1397.17.47 § 2 (part), 2017)
17.08.150 Membership.
   A.   The commission shall consist of seven members appointed by the mayor
with the consent of city council.
   B.   It is intended that the commission consist of members who demonstrate
an interest in historic preservation, architecture and development within the
city, to be appointed, to the extent possible given the applications received
and interest in the community, as follows:
      1.   At least one shall be a licensed real estate broker or agent, or a
licensed contractor;
      2.   At least one shall be an owner or resident of a designated historic
property, or a property listed on the National Register of Historic Places;
      3.   At least one shall have demonstrated significant interest in, and
commitment to, the field of historic preservation, evidenced either by
involvement in a local history museum, historic preservation group, employment
or volunteer activity in the field of historic preservation, or other serious
interest in the field; and
      4.   At least one shall be a current or former planning and zoning
commission member, arts and humanities commission member, Casa Grande main
street board member, or a former city council member.
   C.   In the event no qualified applicants meet the requirements of
subsection B at the time a vacancy exists on the commission, the mayor, with
the consent of council, may appoint an interested applicant not otherwise
meeting the qualifications of subsections B (1—4) above to serve.
(Ord. 1397.17.47 § 2 (part), 2017)
17.08.160 Term of office.
   A.   Commission members shall serve for a term of three years.
   B.   Commission members may be reappointed and shall hold office until their
successors are appointed and qualified. An individual may not serve more than
two consecutive terms. The chairman and vice chairman of the commission shall
be elected by and from among the members of the commission.
(Ord. 1397.17.47 § 2 (part), 2017)
17.08.170 Duties.
   The duties of the commission shall include:
   A.   Promulgation of bylaws, rules and regulations necessary for the conduct
of its business. The bylaws shall be subject to the approval of the city
council, and shall not be inconsistent with the charter and ordinances of the
city, and the constitution and laws of the state of Arizona.
   B.   Review of criteria for the identification of significant historic,
architectural and cultural landmarks, and for the delineation of historic
districts.
   C.   Review existing surveys of significant historic, architectural and
cultural landmarks and historic districts within the city, and periodically
update the survey.
   D.   Provide recommendations to the city council concerning the designation
of identified structures or resources as landmarks and historic districts.
   E.   Provide recommendations to the city council concerning the acquisition
of facade easements, development rights or other interests in real property as
necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
   F.   Increasing public awareness of the value of historic, cultural and
architectural preservation by developing and participating in public education
programs.
   G.   Provide recommendations to the city council concerning the utilization
of state, federal or private funds to promote the preservation of landmarks and
historic districts within the city.
   H.   Recommending acquisition of any landmark structure by the city, where
its preservation is essential to the purposes of this chapter, and where
private preservation is not feasible.
   I.   Approval or disapproval of applications for certificates of
appropriateness pursuant to
Chapter 17.62.
   J.   Implement the criteria as adopted by city council, and make
recommendations, as needed, to city council on any proposed revisions to said
criteria, that will be considered when reviewing proposals on the naming/
renaming of city facilities.
   K.   Implement a process and procedural rules as adopted by city council,
and make recommendations, as needed, to city council on any proposed revisions
to said process or procedural rules, for the performance of the duties relating
to the naming/re-naming of city facilities.
   L.   Make recommendations to city council concerning all proposals for the
naming or renaming of city facilities pursuant to the process outlined in
Section
17.62.145.
(Ord. 1397.17.57 § 3, 2022; Ord. 1397.17.47 § 2 (part), 2017)
Chapter 17.12
DEFINITIONS
Sections:
17.12.010   Rules of construction.
17.12.020   Accessory building or use.
17.12.030   Adult use.
17.12.040   Agricultural/ranching.
17.12.050   Airport.
17.12.060   Alley.
17.12.070   Apartment building.
17.12.080   Area of shallow flooding.
17.12.090   Automobile reduction yard.
17.12.092   Automobile repair services (major)
17.12.094   Automobile repair services (major)
17.12.100   Auto salvage yard.
17.12.110   Reserved
17.12.120   Automobile washing establishment.
17.12.122   Bakery, commercial.
17.12.123   Bakery, retail.
17.12.130   Base flood, one-hundred-year.
17.12.140   Basement.
17.12.145   Bed and breakfast establishment (tourist home).
17.12.150   Block frontage.
17.12.160   Board.
17.12.170   Building.
17.12.180   Building area.
17.12.190   Building envelope.
17.12.200   Building, front line of.
17.12.210   Building, height of.
17.12.220   Building line, front.
17.12.230   Building line, rear.
17.12.240   Building, nonconforming.
17.12.250   Building, principal.
17.12.260   Building, public.
17.12.270   Business.
17.12.280   Campground.
17.12.290   Carport.
17.12.300   Cemetery.
17.12.305   Charity dining facilities, homeless shelters and similar services.
17.12.310   Church.
17.12.320   City.
17.12.325   City Manager.
17.12.330   Clinic or medical center.
17.12.340   Club, private (nonprofit).
17.12.350   Commission.
17.12.360   Convenience-food restaurant.
17.12.365   Convenience store
17.12.370   Conditional use permits.
17.12.380   Corporate counsel.
17.12.390   Council.
17.12.400   Day care.
17.12.410   Day care center.
17.12.415   Deferred presentment company
17.12.420   Density, gross.
17.12.430   Density, net residential.
17.12.435   Department.
17.12.440   Development.
17.12.450   Development disability.
17.12.455   Director.
17.12.460   Drive access.
17.12.470   Drive-in business.
17.12.480   Duplex.
17.12.490   Dwelling.
17.12.495   Dwe3lling, accessory or ADU.
17.12.500   Dwelling, attached.
17.12.510   Dwelling, detached.
17.12.515   Dwelling, manufactured.
17.12.516   Dwelling, modular or sectional.
17.12.520   Dwelling, single-family.
17.12.530   Dwelling, two-family.
17.12.540   Dwelling, multiple (multi-family).
17.12.550   Dwelling unit.
17.12.560   Family.
17.12.570   Fence.
17.12.580   Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).
17.12.590   Flood insurance study.
17.12.600   Floodplain.
17.12.610   Floodproofing.
17.12.620   Floodway, one-hundred-year.
17.12.630   Floodway fringe, one-hundred-year.
17.12.640   Garage, private.
17.12.650   Garage, public.
17.12.660   General plan.
17.12.670   Grade.
17.12.680   Greenhouse.
17.12.685      Gross floor area.
17.12.690   Ground floor area.
17.12.700   Group home.
17.12.710   Habitable floor.
17.12.720   Home occupation or profession.
17.12.730   Hospital.
17.12.740   Hotel or motel.
17.12.750   Incidental.
17.12.760   Junkyard.
17.12.770   Kennel.
17.12.771   Large mulitple use shopping center.
17.12.772   Large single retail use.
17.12.780   Loading and unloading bays.
17.12.790   Lodging house.
17.12.800   Lot.
17.12.810   Lot area.
17.12.820   Lot, corner.
17.12.830   Lot, interior.
17.12.835   Lot of record, nonconforming.
17.12.840   Lot, through.
17.12.850   Lot coverage.
17.12.860   Lot depth.
17.12.870   Lot, ground level.
17.12.880   Lot line, front.
17.12.890   Lot line, rear.
17.12.900   Lot line, side.
17.12.910   Lot width.
17.12.920   Manufactured home.
17.12.930   Manufacturing.
17.12.940   Manufacturing, light.
17.12.941   Marijuana and medical marijuana.
17.12.942   Marijuana cultivation facility.
17.12.943   Marijuana dispensary.
17.12.944   Marijuana infusion facility.
17.12.945   Marijuana testing facility.
17.12.946   Marijuana uses.
17.12.947   Qualifying patient/caregiver cultivation location.
17.12.950   Mining.
17.12.960   Mobile homes.
17.12.970   Mobile home park.
17.12.980   Mobile home space.
17.12.990   Mobile home stand.
17.12.1000   Mobile office.
17.12.1010   Model home.
17.12.1020   Modular or sectional home.
17.12.1030   New construction.
17.12.1040   Noxious matter or material.
17.12.1050   Nonconforming use.
17.12.1060   Nursing home.
17.12.1070   Offices.
17.12.1080   One-hundred-year flood.
17.12.1090   Open sales (or rental) lot.
17.12.1100   Overlay zone.
17.12.1105   Park model.
17.12.1110   Parking area, public.
17.12.1120   Parking space, off-street.
17.12.1130   Party wall.
17.12.1140   Paved parking space or surface.
17.12.1150   Personal and convenience services.
17.12.1160   Persons.
17.12.1170   Plant nursery.
17.12.1180   Property, personal.
17.12.1190   Property, real.
17.12.1200   Recreational vehicle.
17.12.1210   Recreational vehicle park.
17.12.1215   Recycling center.
17.12.1220   Research laboratory.
17.12.1230   Residential facility.
17.12.1240   Restaurant.
17.12.1245   Self-storage facility.
17.12.1250   School.
17.12.1260   Screening.
17.12.1270   Setback.
17.12.1280   Setback line.
17.12.1290   Sewer, public.
17.12.1300   Sewer system, community.
17.12.1305   Sexually oriented business.
17.12.1310   Shopping center.
17.12.1320   Sign.
17.12.1330   Sign, free-standing.
17.12.1340   Sign, nonaccessory.
17.12.1350   Sign, wall.
17.12.1360   Site plan.
17.12.1370   Stable, private.
17.12.1380   Stable, public.
17.12.1390   Start of construction.
17.12.1400   Street.
17.12.1410   Street, arterial.
17.12.1420   Street, collector.
17.12.1430   Street, local.
17.12.1440   Street frontage.
17.12.1450   Street, public.
17.12.1460   Structure.
17.12.1470   Structural alteration.
17.12.1480   Substantial improvement.
17.12.1500   Townhouse.
17.12.1510   Townhouse cluster.
17.12.1520   Truck stop.
17.12.1530   Truck washing establishment.
17.12.1540   Use.
17.12.1550   Use, accessory.
17.12.1560   Use, conditionally permitted.
17.12.1570   Use, nonconforming.
17.12.1580   Use, permitted.
17.12.1590   Use, principal.
17.12.1600   Use, temporary.
17.12.1610   Variance.
17.12.1620   Variance, dimensional.
17.12.1630   Warehouse.
17.12.1640   Reserved.
17.12.1645   Wireless telecommunication facilities.
17.12.1650   Wrecking yard.
17.12.1660   Yard.
17.12.1670   Yard, corner side.
17.12.1680   Yard, front.
17.12.1690   Yard, rear.
17.12.1700   Yard, side.
17.12.010 Rules of construction.
   A.   Except as specifically defined herein, all words in this title shall
have their customary dictionary definitions. For the purpose of this title
certain words and terms used herein are defined as set out in subsection B of
this section.
   B.   Words used in the present tense include the future tense; words used in
the singular include the plural, and words used in the plural include the
singular; the word “shall” is always mandatory, and the word “person” includes
a firm, association, organization, partnership, trust, corporation or company,
as well as an individual; the word “lot” includes the words “plot” or “parcel”;
the word “building” includes the word “structure”; the words “used” or
“occupied,” as applied to any land or building, shall be construed to include
the words “intended, arranged, or designed to be used or occupied”; the words
“map” or “zoning map” mean the zoning map(s) of the city of Casa  Grande that
delineate the area to be governed by these regulations.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.020 Accessory building or use.
   “Accessory building or use” means a subordinate building, or portion of the
principal building, located on the same lot as the principal building, or a
subordinate use of land, either of which is customarily incidental to the
principal building or to the principal use of land. Where part of an accessory
building is connected to a part of the principal building in a substantial
manner as by a roof, such accessory building shall be counted as part of the
principal building. (Ord. 1397.17.61 § 1 (part), 2024; Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part),
1987)
17.12.030 Adult use.
   “Adult use” means a retail establishment whose primary business is that of
selling or leasing publications and other material of a sexual nature,
including adult bookstores and theaters.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.040 Agricultural/ranching.
   “Agricultural/ranching” means the cultivation of the soil or the raising of
livestock and all activities incidental thereto. The terms “farming” and
“ranching” shall be interchangeable for purposes of this title.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.050 Airport.
   “Airport” means a licensed facility where commercial, military and private
aircraft may land or take off and where additional space is provided for
repairs, services, storage facilities, offices, and buildings for
administration and passenger convenience.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.060 Alley.
   “Alley” means a permanent public thoroughfare providing a secondary means of
access to abutting lands.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.070 Apartment building.
   “Apartment building” means a building other than a hotel or motel containing
five or more dwelling units which have the primary entrances from common
hallways.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.080 Area of shallow flooding.
   “Area of shallow flooding” means a designated AO Zone on the Flood Insurance
Rate Map (FIRM). The base flood depths range from one to three feet; a clearly
defined channel does not exist; the path of flooding is unpredictable and
indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.090 Automobile reduction yard.
   “Automobile reduction yard” means any area of land where two or more motor
vehicles not in running condition and/or two or more unlicensed motor vehicles,
or parts thereof are stored in the open and are not being restored to
operation; or any land, building or structure used for the wrecking,
dismantling, storage or abandonment of motor vehicles or parts thereof.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.092 Automobile repair services (major).
   “Automobile repair services (major)” means any service, repair, installation
or work on a motor vehicle, truck, motor home, recreational vehicle, or boat
other than those included in Section
17.12.094.
(Ord. 1397.17.36 § 1 (part), 2009)
17.12.094 Automobile repair services (minor).
   “Automobile repair services (minor)” means any service, repair, installation
or work on a motor vehicle, truck, motor home, recreational vehicle, or boat,
including battery, brake, muffler, air conditioning, automobile glass
replacement and tinting, audio and video equipment, upholstery work, tire
repair and change, lubrication, tune ups, and transmission work, provided it is
conducted within a completely enclosed building.
(Ord. 1397.17.36 § 1 (part), 2009)
17.12.100 Auto salvage yard.
   “Auto salvage yard” means a junkyard primarily containing inoperable
vehicles. (See "junkyard").
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.110 Reserved
17.12.120 Automobile washing establishment.
   “Automobile washing establishment” means a building which has as its primary
purpose washing automobiles. Such facilities shall be considered incidental to
convenience stores, as defined in Section
17.12.365, if not more than one auto may be washed at one time, and if the
convenience store is clearly the principal use.
(Ord. 1397.17.36 § 2 (part), 2009: Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.122 Bakery, commercial.
   “Bakery, commercial: means an industrial establishment primarily engaged in
manufacturing and distribution of baked products.
(Ord. 1397.17.45 § 1 (part), 2014)
17.12.123 Bakery, retail.
   “Bakery, retail” means an establishment primarily engaged in preparing,
baking, or cooking baked products for on-site retail sales, on-site or off-site
consumption. Said use may include incidental on-site food service and
distribution to local businesses.
(Ord. 1397.17.45 § 1 (part), 2014)
17.12.130 Base flood, one-hundred-year.
   “Base flood, one-hundred-year” means the flood having a one percent chance
of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.140 Basement.
   “Basement” means a portion of a building located partly underground but
having not less than half its floor-to-ceiling height below the average grade
of the adjoining ground.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.145 Bed and breakfast establishment (tourist home).
   “Bed and breakfast” means a dwelling in which the occupants of the dwelling
provide, for compensation, the short term lodging and meals for guests
occupying not more than five guest rooms located within the dwelling.
(Ord. 1397.17.16 § I, 1997)
17.12.150 Block frontage.
   “Block frontage” means all of the property of a given lot or any portion
thereof lying adjacent to a public street or highway.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.160 Board.
   “Board” means the board of adjustment of the city of Casa Grande, Arizona.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.170 Building.
   “Building” means any structure having enclosed space and a roof for the
housing and/or enclosure of persons, animals or chattels, except mobile homes,
recreational vehicles and mobile offices.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.180 Building area.
   “Building area” means the maximum horizontal projected area of the principal
and accessory building, excluding open steps, terraces, unenclosed porches of
one story, and architectural appurtenances projecting not more than two feet.
Building area, as that portion of a lot upon which construction is permitted,
is as follows: That area of a lot that lies within the boundaries of the front,
side and rear yard setback requirements measured from the actual lot line.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.190 Building envelope.
   “Building envelope” means that area of a lot lying between the front, rear,
and side yard setback lines and between ground level and the maximum allowable
building height, amounting to a three dimensional area available for potential
building construction.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.200 Building, front line of.
   “Building, front line of” means the line of the face of a building nearest
the front lot line.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.210 Building, height of.
   “Building, height of” means the vertical distance of a building as measured
from the average elevation of the finished grade within twenty feet of the
structure to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof, or to the deck
line of a mansard roof, or to the mean height level between eaves and ridges
for gable and hip or gambrel roofs.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.220 Building line, front.
   “Building line, front” means the line nearest to the front and across a lot
establishing the minimum open space to be pro-  vided between the front line of
a building and the front lot line.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.230 Building line, rear.
   “Building line, rear” means the line nearest to the rear and across a lot
establishing the minimum open space to be provided between the rear line of a
building and the rear lot line.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.240 Building, nonconforming.
   “Building, nonconforming” means a legally existing building which fails to
comply with the regulations set forth in this title applicable to the zone in
which the building is located.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.250 Building, principal.
   “Building, principal” means a building which is conducted in the main, or
principal, use of the lot on which the building is situated.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.260 Building, public.
   “Building, public” means a building, supported by government funds, to be
used in an official capacity on behalf of the entire community.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.270 Business.
   “Business” means the engaging in of the purchase, sale, barter or exchange
of goods, wares, merchandise or service; the maintenance or operation of
offices or recreational or amusement enterprises.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.280 Campground.
   “Campground” means an area of land used to temporarily accommodate two or
more camping parties, including cabins, tents, recreational vehicles or other
camping outfits.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.290 Carport.
   “Carport” means a structure, open on at least two sides, consisting of a
roof and either walls or columns for the purpose of housing automotive vehicles
and other chattels. The structure shall be considered as an accessory building
when detached from the principal building and as a part of the principal
building when attached to the principal building along one or more sides of the
carport or principal building.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.300 Cemetery.
   “Cemetery” means land used for the burial of the dead and dedicated for
cemetery purposes, including crematories, mausoleums and mortuaries when
operated in conjunction with and within the boundary of such cemetery.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.305 Charity dining facilities, homeless shelters and similar services.
   “Charity dining facilities” are defined as facilities that provide regular
on-going charitable meal services.
   “Homeless shelters” are regular on-going facilities designed to provide
temporary, charitable shelter.
   “Similar services” are defined as services other than a charity dining hall
or homeless shelter, that provides essentially similar services related to
shelter and meals as defined above.
   Specifically exempted are any services provided to victims of a county,
state or federally declared disaster.
(Ord. 1397.17.11 § 1, 1994)
17.12.310 Church.
   “Church” means a building, together with its accessory buildings and uses,
where persons regularly assemble for religious worship, and which building,
together with its accessory buildings and uses, is maintained and controlled by
a religious body organized to sustain public worship.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.320 City.
   “City” means the city of Casa Grande.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.325 City Manager.
   “City Manager” shall mean the Casa Grande City Manager or their designee.
(Ord. 1397.17.64 § 1 (part), 2024)
17.12.330 Clinic or medical center.
   “Clinic or medical center” means an establishment where patients are
admitted for special study and treatment by one or more licensed physicians
and/or dentists and their professional associates, as distinguished from a
“professional office” for general consultation purposes.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.340 Club, private (nonprofit).
   “Club, private (nonprofit)” means a nonprofit association of persons who are
bona fide members paying annual dues which owns, hires, or leases a building,
or a portion thereof; the use of such premises being restricted to members and
their guests.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.350 Commission.
   “Commission” means the city of Casa Grande planning and zoning commission.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.360 Convenience-food restaurant.
   “Convenience-food restaurant” means an establishment whose principal
business is the sale of foods, frozen desserts, or beverages to the consumer in
a ready-to-eat state for consumption either within the premises or for carry-
out with consumption either on or off the premises and whose design or
principal method of operation includes both of the following characteristics:
   A.   Foods, frozen desserts, or beverages are usually served in edible
containers or in paper, plastic, or other disposable containers;
   B.   The customer is not served food at his/her table by an employee but
receives it at a counter, window, or similar facility for carrying to another
location for consumption either on or off the premises.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.365 Convenience store.
   “Convenience store” uses are commercial activities which have a relatively
high traffic generation compared to other commercial uses. A use is designated
as a "convenience store" if the method of operation includes one or more of the
following characteristics:
   A.   Retail gasoline is sold.
   B.   A store where food and drink is sold primarily for consumption off
premises.
(Ord. 1397.17.36 § 1 (part), 2009)
17.12.370 Conditional use permits.
   “Conditional use permits” means legal authorization to undertake a
conditionally permitted use as defined by this title.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.380 Corporate counsel.
   “Corporate counsel” means the attorney of the city of Casa Grande or any
assistant or special counsel of the city.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.390 Council.
   “Council” means the city council of the city of Casa Grande.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.400 Day care.
   “Day care” means the care, supervision and guidance of a child or children,
or an adult or adults, unaccompanied by parent, guardian or custodian, on a
regular basis for periods of less than twenty-four hours per day, in a place
other than the child's or children's, or an adult’s or adults’, own home or
homes.
(Ord. 1397.17.36 § 2 (part), 2009: Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.410 Day care center.
   “Day care center” means any facility in which day care is regularly provided
for compensation for five or more children or adults not related to the
proprietor.
(Ord. 1397.17.36 § 2 (part), 2009: Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.415 Deferred presentment company.
   “Deferred presentment company" means a business that makes transactions
pursuant to a written agreement in which the licensee holds a person's check
for at least five calendar days before presentment for payment or deposit. This
service is commonly known as payday loans. Deferred presentment companies are
principally permitted in business zones, subject to the following conditions:
   A.   Deferred presentment companies shall not be located within thirteen
hundred and twenty (1,320) feet of another deferred presentment company. This
distance shall be measured by a straight line, in any direction, from the
outside building wall of a proposed deferred presentment company to the
location of the nearest outside building wall of the existing deferred
presentment company, without regard to any intervening uses.
   B.   These requirements shall also apply to deferred presentment companies
which are ancillary to another existing or permitted use.
   C.   The minimum separation required for the above uses shall apply
regardless of whether the other use is located within the incorporated area of
the city of Casa Grande or another jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1397.17.35 § 1, 2009)
17.12.420 Density, gross.
   “Density, gross” means the number of  residential dwelling units per unit of
land.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.430 Density, net residential.
   “Density, net residential” means the number of residential dwelling units
per unit of land, excluding any land used or to be used as arterial street
rights-of-way or private nonresidential uses except parks, open space and
recreational areas. For calculating net residential density, the formula shall
apply:
          du
      D =   A-(c+i+s+a)
Where:
      D =    Residential density
      du=   Total number of dwelling units in project
      A =    Total site area (acres)
      c =   Total commercial land area (acres)
      i =    Total industrial land area (acres)
      s =    Reserved but undedicated school sites or other public sites
(acres)
      a =    Arterial rights-of-way (acres)
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.435 Department.
   “Department” hall mean the Casa Grande Planning and Development Department.
(Ord. 1397.17.64 § 1 (part), 2024)
17.12.440 Development.
   “Development” means any manmade change to improve or alter real estate,
including but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.450 Development disability.
   “Development disability” shall include autism, cerebral palsy, epilepsy or
cognitive disability.
(Ord. 1397.17.36 § 2 (part), 2009: Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.24.455 Director.
   “Director”shall mean the Casa Grande Planning and Development Director or
their designee. (Ord. 1397.17.64 § 1 (part), 2024)
17.12.460 Drive access.
   “Drive access” means that area between the curb of a street, or edge of the
traveled portion of a street when no curb exists, and the right-of-way/property
line over which the city will permit vehicular travel from the traveled portion
of a street to an individual property, or off-street parking space(s).
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.470 Drive-in business.
   “Drive-in business” means any business in which people are provided a
service or a product, where a sale is made without the customer being required
to leave the vehicle. Such businesses include, but are not limited to, the
following: drive-in theater, drive-in bank, drive-in laundry or drycleaning
pickup station, drive-in restaurant, and any business offering “take-home” food
services.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.480 Duplex.
   See Section
17.12.530.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.490 Dwelling.
   “Dwelling” means a building, or portion thereof, used primarily for
residential occupancy, including single-family, two-family, multiple-family
dwellings and group homes, but not including hotels, motels, or tourist homes.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.495 Dwelling, accessory or ADU.
   “Dwelling, accessory or ADU” means an attached or detached unit that is a
smaller, independent site built or modular residential dwelling unit, which
complies with the International Residential Code as adopted by the City and
codified in Casa Grande Municipal Code Section 15.06.010, as may be amended
from time to time, that is on the same lot or parcel as a single-family
dwelling of greater square footage than the accessory dwelling unit, and that
includes its own sleeping and sanitation facilities and that may include its
own kitchen facilities. (Ord. 1397.17.61 § 1 (part), 2024)
17.12.500 Dwelling, attached.
   “Dwelling, attached” means a dwelling that has a wall, roof and/or floor in
common with any other dwelling.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.510 Dwelling, detached.
   “Dwelling, detached” means city dwelling that does not have a wall roof and/
or floor in common with any other dwelling.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.515 Dwelling, manufactured.
   “Dwelling, manufactured” shall mean a factory-assembled structure equipped
with the necessary service connections and made to be readily movable and
designed to be used as a dwelling unit(s) with or without a permanent
foundation. It also has an insignia verifying that it complies with Housing and
Urban Development (HUD) or industry equivalent construction standards. (Ord.
1397.17.62 § 1 (part), 2024)
17.12 516 Dwelling, modular or sectional.
   “Dwelling, modular or sectional” shall mean a dwelling unit mass-produced in
a factory, designed and constructed for transportation to a site. It shall also
be designed for connection to the required utilities and to be anchored to a
permanent foundation. Modular or sectional dwellings shall be constructed in
compliance with the International Residential Code as adopted by the City and
codified in Casa Grande Municipal Code Section
15.06.010, as may be amended from time to time. (Ord. 1397.17.62 § 1 (part),
2024)
17.12.520 Dwelling, single-family.
   “Dwelling, single-family” means a building used for residential occupancy by
one family.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.530 Dwelling, two-family.
   “Dwelling, two-family” means a building or portion thereof, used for
occupancy by two or more families living independently of each other, with the
units completely separated by a common wall, floor and/or ceiling.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.540 Dwelling, multiple (multi-family).
   “Dwelling, multiple (multi-family)” means a building or portion thereof,
used for occupancy by three or more families living independently of each
other, with the units completely separated by a common wall, floor and/or
ceiling.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.550 Dwelling unit.
   “Dwelling unit” means a dwelling, or portion of a dwelling, used by one
household for residential purposes.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.560 Family.
   “Family” means any number of individuals customarily living together as a
single housekeeping unit and using common cooking facilities as distinguished
from a group occupying a hotel, motel, club, fraternity, sorority, lodging
house, or nursing home.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.570 Fence.
   “Fence” means a barrier constructed of materials erected for the purpose of
protection, confinement, enclosure or privacy.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.580 Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).
   “Flood Insurance Rate Map” means the official map on which the Federal
Insurance Administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazards
and risk premium zones applicable to the community.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.590 Flood Insurance Study.
   “Flood Insurance Study” means the official report in which the Federal
Insurance Administration has provided flood profiles as well as the Flood
Boundary Floodway Map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.600 Floodplain.
   “Floodplain” means that area encompassing the floodway area and the floodway
fringe.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.610 Floodproofing.
   “Floodproofing” means any combination of structural and nonstructural
additions, changes, or adjustments to properties and structures which reduce or
eliminate flood damage to lands, water and sanitary facilities, structures and
contents of buildings.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.620 Floodway, one-hundred-year.
   “Floodway, one-hundred-year” means the channel of a river or other
watercourse and the adjacent land areas which must be kept free of encroachment
in order to carry out and discharge a flood of one- hundred-year magnitude
without substantial increases in flood height.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.630 Floodway fringe, one-hundred year.
   “Floodway fringe, one-hundred-year” means the area between the floodway and
the one-hundred- year flood boundary.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.640 Garage, private.
   “Garage, private” means a detached accessory building, or portion of a main
building, used for the storage of self-propelled vehicles where the capacity
does not exceed three vehicles per family housed in the building to which such
garage is accessory and not more than one-third of the total number of vehicles
stored in such garage shall be commercial vehicles.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.650 Garage, public.
   “Garage, public” means any building or premises, except those defined herein
as a private garage, used for the storage or care of motor vehicles; or where
such vehicles are equipped for operation, repaired, or kept for rental, hire,
or sale.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.660 General plan.
   “General plan” means the city of Casa Grande general plan.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.670 Grade.
   “Grade” means the average level of the finished ground surfaces surrounding
a building.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.680 Greenhouse.
   “Greenhouse” means a building or structure constructed chiefly of glass,
glass-like translucent material, cloth, lath or similar materials which is
devoted to the protection or cultivation of flowers and other plants.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.685 Gross floor area.
   “Gross floor area” means the interior habitable area of a single-family
dwelling or an accessory dwelling unit. (Ord. 1397.17.61 § 1 (part), 2024)
17.12.690 Ground floor area.
   “Ground floor area” means the square foot area of a building within its
largest outside dimension computed on a horizontal plane at the ground floor
level, exclusive of open porches, breezeways, terraces, garages, exterior
stairways, and secondary stairways.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.700 Group home.
   “Group home” means a single, residential structure having common kitchen
facilities occupied by more than six persons having physical, mental,
emotional, or social problems and living together for the purpose of training,
observation, and/or common support on a twenty-four hour per day basis, except
that a residential facility shall not be included in the definition of group
home.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.710 Habitable floor.
   “Habitable floor” means any floor usable for living purposes, which includes
working, sleeping, eating, cooking or recreation, or a combination thereof.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.720 Home occupation or profession.
   “Home occupation or profession” means any use conducted entirely within a
dwelling and carried on solely by the occupants thereof, which use is clearly
incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential purposes
and which meets the requirements of this title.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.730 Hospital.
   “Hospital” means an institution for the diagnosis, treatment, or other cure
of human ailments and includes sanitarium or clinic, provided such institution
is operated by, or treatment is given, under direct supervision of a physician
licensed to practice by the state of Arizona.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.740 Hotel or motel.
   “Hotel or motel” means a building or portion thereof, or a group of
buildings, in which lodging is provided and offered to transient guests for
compensation; shall not include a lodging house.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.750 Incidental.
   “Incidental” means any action or use of less importance, or secondary to,
any other action or use.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.760 Junkyard.
   “Junkyard” means any place at which personal property is or may be salvaged
for reuse, resale, or reduction or similar disposition and is owned, possessed,
collected, accumulated, dismantled or sorted, including but not limited to: use
of salvaged base metal or metals, their compounds or combinations; use of
salvaged rope, bags, rags, glass, rubber, lumber, millwork, brick, automobiles,
and similar property which are used, owned, or possessed for the purpose of
wrecking or salvaging parts therefrom.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.770 Kennel.
   “Kennel” means any lot or premises on which three or more dogs, cats, or
small animals over the age of eight weeks are kept. A noncommercial kennel at,
in, or adjoining a private residence where hunting or other dogs are kept for
the hobby of the householder (i.e., hunting, tracking, or exhibiting) or for
guarding or protecting the householder's property is permitted in residential
zoning districts, provided the number of dogs, cats or small animals over the
age of eight weeks does not exceed four.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.771 Large multiple use shopping center.
   A “large multiple use shopping center” shall mean any grouping of two or
more retail uses, whether on a single lot or on abutting lots under multiple or
single ownership and whether contained in one building or multiple buildings
where the aggregate square footage of building coverage primarily devoted to,
or intended for, the sale or display of goods and merchandise for consumption
by the general public, including any outdoor sales and display area(s) and
storage/stockroom area(s), but excluding any outdoor area for the sale of cars,
trucks, boats, recreational vehicles, or manufactured homes is in excess of
two-hundred fifty thousand (250,000) square feet.
(Ord. 1397.17.29 § 1 (part), 2001)
17.12.772 Large single retail use.
   A “large single retail use” shall mean any single use building, whether
stand alone or within a multi-building development, wherein said single use
building occupies at least one-hundred thousand (100,000) square feet of
building coverage primarily devoted to, or intended for, the sale or display of
goods and merchandise for consumption by the general public, including any
outdoor sales and display area(s) and storage/stockroom area(s), but excluding
any outdoor area for the sale of cars, trucks, boats, recreational vehicles, or
manufactured homes. For the purposes of this definition, calculation of such
building area(s) shall include all other indoor and outdoor sales areas or
customer service area(s) that may be incidental to, but nevertheless share
customer walking aisles or store entrances with the large single retail use
operator, whether or not such area(s) are under the same management as the
large single retail use operator.
(Ord. 1397.17.29 § 1 (part), 2001)
17.12.780 Loading and unloading bays.
   “Loading and unloading bays” means the off-street area required for the
receipt of or distribution, by vehicles, of material or merchandise.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.790 Lodging house.
   “Lodging house” means a building with more than two but not more then ten
guest rooms where lodging with or without meals is provided for compensation.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.800 Lot.
   “Lot” means a piece, parcel, plot, tract, or area of land occupied or
capable of being occupied by one or more principal buildings, and the accessory
buildings or uses customarily incidental to them, and including the open spaces
required under this title, and having its principal lot frontage on a street.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.810 Lot area.
   “Lot area” means the total horizontal area within the boundary lines of a
lot.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.820 Lot, corner.
   “Lot, corner” means a lot at a junction of and fronting on two or more
intersecting streets.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.830 Lot, interior.
   “Lot, interior” means a lot other than a corner or through lot.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.835 Lot of record, nonconforming.
   “Lot of record, nonconforming” means a lot or parcel legally existing as of
the date on which this title was adopted which does not meet the applicable lot
area, lot depth and/or lot width requirements of the zone district in which it
is located. (Ord. 1397.17.63 § 1 (part), 2024)
17.12.840 Lot, through.
   “Lot, through” means a lot having frontage on two parallel or approximately
parallel streets.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.850 Lot coverage.
   “Lot coverage” means the percentage of the lot area covered by buildings.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.860 Lot depth.
   “Lot depth” means the horizontal distance of a line measured at a right
angle to the front lot line and running between the front lot line and rear lot
line of a lot.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.870 Lot, ground level.
   “Lot, ground level” means, for buildings having walls fronting on only one
street, the elevation at the front lot line at the center of a wall fronting on
the street; for buildings having walls fronting on more than one street, the
average of the elevation of the lot lines at the center of all walls fronting
on the streets; for buildings having no walls fronting on a street, the average
level of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of the building.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.880 Lot line, front.
   “Lot line, front” means, in the case of an interior lot, a line separating
the lot from the street, in the case of a corner lot, a line separating the
narrowest street frontage of the lot from the street and in the case of a
through lot, a line separating the lot from the street from which a drive
access may be permitted by the city.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.890 Lot line, rear.
   “Lot line, rear” means a lot line which is opposite and most distant from
the front lot line and, in the case of an irregular or triangular shaped lot, a
lot line ten feet in length within the lot, parallel to and at the maximum
distance from the front lot line.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.900 Lot line, side.
   “Lot line, side” means any lot boundary line not a front lot line or a rear
lot line.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.910 Lot width.
   “Lot width” means the distance as measured in a straight line, between side
lot lines at the points of intersection with the front building line.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.920 Manufactured home.
   “Manufactured home” see Section
17.12.515. (Ord. 1397.17.62 § 1 (part), 2024; Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.930 Manufacturing.
   “Manufacturing” means the creation of products either with machinery or by
and according to an organized plan and with the division of labor.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.940 Manufacturing, light.
   “Manufacturing, light” means fabrication of and/or assembly of goods from
previously prepared materials.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.941 Marijuana and medical marijuana.
   “Marijuana” means:
    1.   All parts of the plant of the genus cannabis, whether growing or not,
as well as the seeds from the plant, the resin extracted from any part of the
plant, and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or
preparation of the plant or its seeds or resin.
   2.   Includes cannabis as defined in A.R.S. § 13-3401.
   3.   Does not include industrial hemp, the fiber produced from the stalks of
the plant of the genus cannabis, oil, or cake made from the seeds of the plant,
sterilized seeds of the plant that are incapable of germination, or the weight
of any other ingredient combined with marijuana to prepare topical or oral
administrations, food, drink, or other products.
   "Medical marijuana" means marijuana, as defined herein, that may be
administered to treat or alleviate a qualifying patient’s debilitating medical
condition or symptoms associated with the patient's debilitating medical
condition.
(Ord. 1397.17.53 § 1 (part), 2021; Ord. 1397.17.37 § 1 (part), 2011)
17.12.942 Marijuana cultivation facility.
   “Marijuana cultivation facility” shall mean a building or structure used for
the cultivation or storage of marijuana that is physically separate from a
marijuana dispensary.
(Ord. 1397.17.53 § 1 (part), 2021; Ord. 1397.17.37 § 1 (part), 2011)
17.12.943 Marijuana dispensary.
   “Marijuana dispensary” means a dual licensee entity that holds both a non-
profit medical marijuana dispensary registration and a marijuana establishment
license from the Arizona Department of Health Services, and operates both
cooperatively in a shared location or an entity that holds a non-profit medical
marijuana dispensary license from the Arizona Department of Health Services.
(Ord. 1397.17.53 § 1 (part), 2021; Ord. 1397.17.37 § 1 (part), 2011)
17.12.944 Marijuana infusion facility.
   “Marijuana infusion facility” means a facility that incorporates marijuana
(cannabis) into consumable/ edible goods by the means of cooking, blending, or
any other type of incorporation.
(Ord. 1397.17.53 § 1 (part), 2021; Ord. 1397.17.37 § 1 (part), 2011)
17.12.945 Marijuana testing facility.
   "Marijuana testing facility" means the Arizona Department of Health Services
(ADHS) or another entity that is licensed by ADHS to analyze the potency of
marijuana and test marijuana for harmful contaminants.
(Ord. 1397.17.53 § 1 (part), 2021)
17.12.946 Marijuana uses.
   “Marijuana uses” shall include collectively marijuana cultivation
facilities, marijuana dispensaries, marijuana testing facilities, and marijuana
infusion facilities.
(Ord. 1397.17.53 § 1 (part), 2021; Ord. 1397.17.37 § 1 (part), 2011)
17.12.947 Qualifying patient/caregiver cultivation location.
   “Qualifying patient/caregiver cultivation location” means any building,
structure, or premises used for the cultivation of marijuana by either a
qualifying patient and/or qualified caregivers who meet the following
requirements:
   1.   The cultivator is either:
   a.   A qualifying patient pursuant to A.R.S. § 36-2801(13) who has received
his/her registry identification card from the Arizona Department of Health
Services; or
   b.   A designated caregiver pursuant to A.R.S. § 36-2801(5) who has received
his/her registry identification card from the Arizona Department of Health
Services.
   2.   The cultivation is done only at the address approved by the Arizona
Department of Health Services; and
   3.   The building, structure, or premises used for the cultivation is at
least twenty-five miles from the nearest medical marijuana dispensary.
(Ord. 1397.17.37 § 1 (part), 2011)
17.12.950 Mining.
   “Mining” means the extraction of sand, gravel, or other material from the
land in the amount of four hundred cubic yards or more and the removal thereof
from the site without processing.
(Ord. 1397.16.2 §§ 1 (part), 2 (part), 1994)
17.12.960 Mobile homes.
   “Mobile homes (also manufactured home)” means a factory-assembled structure
or structures, exceeding eight feet in width, originally equipped with the
necessary service connections and originally made so as to be readily movable
as a unit or units on its (their) own running gear and designed to be used as a
dwelling unit(s) without a permanent foundation, whether or not the running
gear has been removed.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.970 Mobile home park.
   “Mobile home park” means any plot of ground upon which two or more mobile
homes, occupied or intended to be occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes,
are located.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.980 Mobile home space.
   “Mobile home space” means a plot of ground within a mobile home park
designed for the accommodation of one mobile home.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.990 Mobile home stand.
   “Mobile home stand” means that portion of an individual mobile home space
which has been reserved for the placement of a mobile home and structures or
additions appurtenant to the mobile home.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1000 Mobile office.
   “Mobile office” means a factory-assembled structure or structures exceeding
eight feet in width, originally equipped with the necessary service
connections, and originally made so as to be readily movable as a unit or units
on its (their) own running gear and designed to be used as an office without a
permanent foundation, whether or not the running gear has been removed.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1010 Model home.
   “Model home” means a home constructed to display a builder's for sale or
lease units but which does not serve as a dwelling unit.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1020 Modular or sectional home.
   See Section
17.12.516. (Ord. 1397.17.62 § 1 (part), 2024; Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1030 New construction.
   “New construction” means structures for which the “start of construction”
commenced on or after the effective date of this title.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1040 Noxious matter or material.
   “Noxious matter or material” means material capable of causing injury to
living organisms by chemical reaction or capable of causing detrimental effects
on the physical or economic well-being of individuals.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1050 Nonconforming use.
   See Section
17.12.1570.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1060 Nursing home.
   See Section
17.12.700.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1070 Offices.
   “Offices” means structures, or portions of structures, in which commercial
activities take place but where goods are not produced, sold, or repaired.
These include: banks; general and professional offices; governmental offices;
insurance offices; real estate offices; taxicab offices; but not taxi stands;
travel agency or transportation ticket offices; telephone exchange; utility
offices; radio broadcasting and similar uses.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1080 One-hundred-year flood.
   “One-hundred-year flood” means the highest level of flooding that, on the
average, is likely to occur once every one hundred years (i.e., that has a one
percent chance of occurring in any given year).
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1090 Open sales (or rental) lot.
   “Open sales (or rental) lot” means any land used or occupied for the purpose
of buying, selling, or renting for use away from the premises, any goods,
materials, or merchandise, and for the exterior storing of same prior to sale
or rental.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1100 Overlay zone.
   “Overlay zone” means a zone superimposed upon an underlying zone which
establishes special requirements in addition to, or in lieu of, those of the
underlying zone. Development or use of land or structures must conform to the
requirements of both zones or the more restrictive of the two, if in conflict.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1105 Park model.
   “Park model” shall mean a home, although considered a recreational vehicle,
that is transportable and primarily designed for long-term or permanent
placement at a destination where a recreational vehicle is allowed. When set
up, a park model is connected to the utilities necessary to operate home style
fixtures and appliances. A park model is under 400 sq. ft. and is typically
built to American National Standards Institute (NASI) code for recreational
vehicles. (Ord. 1397.17.62 § 1 (part), 2024)
17.12.1110 Parking area, public.
   “Parking area, public” means an open area, other than a street or alley
designated for use, or used, as a temporary parking for four or more vehicles
when available for public use, whether free or for compensation or as an
accommodation for clients or customers.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1120 Parking space, off-street.
   “Parking space, off-street” means a space designated for the temporary
parking of a motor vehicle not on the right-of-way or alley but accessible from
a street or alley.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1130 Party wall.
   “Party wall” means a wall of a building or structure which is common to two
or more buildings.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1140 Paved parking space or surface.
   “Paved parking space or surface” means an area covered by an impervious dust
free surface of asphalt or concrete designed to specifications of the city
engineer.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1150 Personal and convenience services.
   “Personal and convenience services” means businesses offering services such
as barber shops, beauty shops, laundromats, laundry and dry cleaning pickup and
delivery stations, and similar uses.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1160 Persons.
   “Persons” means and includes any individual or group of individuals,
corporations, partnerships, associations, or any other organized group of
persons, including state and local governments and agencies thereof.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1170 Plant nursery.
   “Plant nursery” means facilities for commercial development, growth and sale
of plants and/or for the utilization of and storage of equipment for
landscaping operation and wholesale and/or retail or commercial supplies.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1180 Property, personal.
   “Property, personal” means property, other than real property, consisting of
things temporal and movable.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1190 Property, real.
   “Property, real” means property consisting of buildings and/or land.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1200 Recreational vehicle.
   “Recreational vehicle” means a vehicular type portable structure without
permanent foundation, which can be towed, hauled or driven primarily designed
as a temporary living accommodation for recreational, camping and travel use
and including but not limited to travel trailers, truck campers, camping
trailers and self-propelled motor homes.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1210 Recreational vehicle park.
   “Recreational vehicle park” means a plot of ground upon which two or more
sites are located, established or maintained for occupancy by the general
public as temporary living quarters for recreation, education or vacation
purposes.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1215   Recycling center.
   "Recycling center" means a facility for the collection and temporary storage
of empty household product containers, such as, but not limited to, aluminum
cans, glass and plastic bottles, plastic, glass, cardboard, paper, aluminum,
and similar recyclable materials discarded from residential dwelling units. The
term "acceptable recyclable materials" does not include equipment and/or
mechanical components. All recycling activities, including compacting and
packaging necessary to transport the materials, must occur within an enclosed
building or buildings. Outside storage of the materials either prior to
processing or after processing is permissible only in enclosed containers.
(Ord. 1397.17.19 1, 1998)
17.12.1220 Research laboratory.
   “Research laboratory” means an establishment or facility for carrying on
investigation in the natural, physical or social sciences, or engineering and
development as an extension of investigation with the objective of creating
products.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1230 Residential facility.
   “Residential facility” means a single residential structure having common
kitchen facilities, occupied by six or fewer persons having a physical,
emotional, social or developmental disability, and living together for the
purpose of residential training, observation, and/or common support, in which
care is provided on a twenty-four hour per day basis. The limitation of six or
fewer persons does not include the operator of a residential facility, members
of the operator's family or persons employed as staff, except that the total
number of all persons living at the residential facility shall not exceed
eight.
(Ord. 1397.17.36 § 2 (part), 2009: Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1240 Restaurant.
   “Restaurant” means any restaurant (except a drive-in restaurant or a
convenience food restaurant as defined in this section), coffee shop,
cafeteria, short-order cafe, luncheonette, tavern, sandwich stand, drugstore,
and soda fountain serving food, and all other eating and drinking
establishments provided that at least one-half of the total sales are derived
from the sale of food.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1245 Self-Storage Facility.
   “Self-Storage Facility” means a facility consisting of individual storage
units which are independently accessed and locked and used solely for dead
storage purposes. The facility may be accessed externally or from interior
corridors. The facility may have storage for vehicles, boats, and trailers and/
or an on-site manager's quarters as accessory uses.
(Ord. 1397.17.60 § 1, 2023)
17.12.1250 School.
   “School” means any pre-primary, primary or grammar, public, parochial or
private school, high school; prepatory school or academy, public or founded, or
owned or conducted by or under the sponsorship of a religious or charitable
organization; private prepatory school or academy furnishing courses of
instruction substantially equivalent to the courses offered by public high
schools for preparation of admission to college or universities which award
B.A. or B.S. degrees; junior college or university, public or founded or
conducted by or under the sponsorship of a religious or charitable
organization; or private school when not conducted as a commercial enterprise
for the profit of individual owners or stockholders.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1260 Screening.
   “Screening” means a solid or nearly solid barrier (i.e., wall, fence,
plantings) constructed or installed for the purpose of visual separation.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1270 Setback.
   “Setback” means the horizontal distance between the front line of a building
and the street right- of-way line or lot line.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1280 Setback line.
   “Setback line” means that line that is the required minimum distance from
the street right-of-way line or any other lot line that establishes the area
within which the principal structure must be placed.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1290 Sewer, public.
   “Sewer, public” means any sanitary sewer line owned and maintained by the
city, whether or not installed by the city.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1300 Sewer system, community.
   “Sewer system, community” means any sanitary sewer system, whether treatment
plant, septic tank or lagoon designed with a sewer collection system to be used
by a legally constituted association of property owners. The system may or may
not be a public system.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1305 Sexually oriented business.
   “Sexually oriented business” means an adult arcade, adult bookstore or adult
video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult
theater, escort agency, nude model studio, sexual encounter center, or any
combination of the foregoing. (See definitions in the ordinance adopted by
reference in Section
5.24.010.)
(Ord. 1397.16.2 § 2 (part), 1994)
17.12.1310 Shopping center.
   “Shopping center” means any grouping of two or more principal retail uses,
whether on a single lot or on abutting lots under multiple or single ownership
and whether contained in one building or multiple buildings.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1320 Sign.
   “Sign” means any device providing identification, advertising or directional
information for a specific business, service, product, person, organization,
place or building. Included in this definition are graphic devices such as
logos, attention attracting media such as banners or logo sculpture and
obtrusive colored fascia or architectural elements.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1330 Sign, free-standing.
   “Sign, free-standing” means any nonmovable sign not affixed to a building.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1340 Sign, nonaccessory.
   “Sign, nonaccessory” means a sign which directs attention to a business,
commodity, service or entertainment conducted sold or offered at a location
other than the premises on which the sign is located.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1350 Sign, wall.
   “Sign, wall” means a sign fastened to or painted on the wall of a building
or structure in such manner that the wall becomes the supporting structure for,
or forms the background surface of, the sign and which does not project more
than twelve inches from such building or structure.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1360 Site plan.
   “Site plan” means a drawing to scale not less than one inch equals one
hundred feet showing the accurate location of all structures, streets, alleys,
and parking areas existing and proposed on subject property or any other
information as may be required by this title.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1370 Stable, private.
   “Stable, private” means any building located on a lot which is designed,
arranged, used or intended to be used for not more than four horses for the
private use of the owner of the lot, but shall not exceed six thousand square
feet in area.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1380 Stable, public.
   “Stable, public” means a stable where horses are kept for remuneration, hire
or sale.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1390 Start of construction.
   A.   “Start of construction” means the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure (other than a mobile home) on a site, such as the
pouring of slabs or footings or any work beyond the stage of excavation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling, nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not as part of the main structure.
   B.   For a structure (other than a mobile home) without a basement or poured
footings, the “start of construction” includes the first permanent framing or
assembly of the structure or any part thereof on its piling or foundation.
   C.   For mobile homes not within a mobile home park or mobile home
subdivision, “start of construction” means the affixing of the mobile home to
its permanent site. For mobile homes within mobile home parks or mobile home
subdivisions, “start of construction” is the date on which the construction of
facilities for servicing the site on which the mobile home is to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the construction of streets, either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads, and installation of utilities) is
completed.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1400 Street.
   “Street” means a right-of-way other than an alley, dedicated or otherwise
legally established for public use, usually affording the principal means of
access to abutting property.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1410 Street, arterial.
   “Street, arterial” means a street with access control, signals at important
intersections and stop signs on the side streets and restricted parking
designed to primarily distribute traffic.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1420 Street, collector.
   “Street, collector” means a street which carries (collects) traffic from
local streets and connects with minor or major arterial streets.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1430 Street, local.
   “Street, local” means a street designed to provide vehicular access to
abutting properties and to discourage through traffic.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1440 Street frontage.
   “Street frontage” means any property line separating a lot from a street;
the front lot line.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1450 Street, public.
   “Street, public” means any street which has been dedicated or is otherwise
publicly owned by the city. Any street not a public street shall be deemed a
private street.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1460 Structure.
   “Structure” means anything constructed or erected which requires location on
the ground.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1470 Structural alteration.
   “Structural alteration” means any change in the supporting members of a
building, such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams, or girders, or
any change in the exterior walls or roof.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1480 Substantial improvement.
   A.   “Substantial improvement” means any repair, reconstruction, or
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
of the market value of the structure either:
   1.   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
   2.   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred.
   B.   For the purposes of this definition “substantial improvement” is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not the alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however,
include either:
   1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
   2.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1500 Townhouse.
   “Townhouse” means a single-family dwelling constructed as part of a series
of dwellings, all of which are either attached to the adjacent building and/or
buildings by party walls, or are located immediately adjacent thereto without
any visible separation between walls or roof; all of which may be located on
individual and separate lots, if individually owned, or upon a single lot, if
under common ownership.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1510 Townhouse cluster.
   “Townhouse cluster” means a building consisting of two or more
noncommunicating, attached one-family units placed side by side and/or back to
back having a common wall between each two adjacent dwelling units.
(Ord. 1397.17.23 § 1, 1999; Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1520 Truck stop.
   A.   “Truck stop” means a facility for the servicing of diesel powered
trucks and tractor trailers. A truck stop shall mean any one or more of the
following:
   1.   Four or more diesel fuel dispensers;
   2.   Two or more bays for truck washing;
   3.   Facilities for diesel engine repair.
   B.   Other uses present at the same facility such as convenience markets or
restaurants shall not be determinative of whether or not the facility is a
truck stop.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1530 Truck washing establishment.
   “Truck washing establishment” means a facility designed to primarily serve
to semitrailer and tractor travel as a place to have such vehicles cleaned.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1540 Use.
   “Use” means the employment or occupation of a building, structure or land
for a person's service, benefit, or enjoyment.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1550 Use, accessory.
   See Section
17.12.020.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1560 Use, conditionally permitted.
   “Use, conditionally permitted” means either a public or private use as
listed herein which, because of its unique characteristics, cannot be properly
classified as a permitted use in a particular district. After consideration in
each case of the impact of such use upon neighboring land and of the public
need for the particular use at the particular location, a permit for such
conditional use may or may not be granted, with or without conditions, in
addition to any condition specifically stated in this title for any particular
conditional use, including time limits, pursuant to the requirements of this
title. A  conditional use may be a principal use or an accessory use.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1570 Use, nonconforming.
   “Use, nonconforming” means an existing use of land or building which was
legal prior to the effective date of this title but which fails to comply with
the requirements set forth in this title applicable to the zone in which such
use is located.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1580 Use, permitted.
   “Use, permitted” means a use which is lawfully established in a particular
district or districts and which conforms with all requirements, regulations,
and performance standards of such district. A permitted use may be a principal
use or an accessory use.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1590 Use, principal.
   “Use, principal” means a use or structure which determines the predominant
or major use of the lot on which it is located. The principal use shall be that
use which establishes the character of the property relative to surrounding or
adjacent properties. A principal use may be either a permitted or a conditional
use.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1600 Use, temporary.
   “Use, temporary” means a use established for a fixed period of time with the
intent to discontinue such use upon the expiration of the time period.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1610 Variance.
   “Variance” means a modification or variation of the provisions of this title
as applied to a specific piece of property. Dimensional variances only may be
allowed; no variance regarding use of property shall be permitted; no variance
decreasing lot area requirements shall be allowed. Variance may be permitted
only by the board of adjustment.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1620 Variance, dimensional.
   “Variance, dimensional” means departure from the terms of the zoning
regulations pertaining to height or width of structures and size of yard and
open spaces where such departure will not be contrary to the public interest
and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the property because of its size,
shape or topography, and not as a result of the action of the applicant, the
literal enforcement of the zoning regulations would result in unnecessary and
undue hardship.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1630 Warehouse.
   “Warehouse” means an enclosed building designed and used primarily for the
storage of goods and materials.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1640 Reserved.
17.12.1645 Wireless telecommunication facilities.
   “Wireless telecommunication facilities” means any facility or structure used
for the reception or transmission of radio, telephone, television or similar-
type signals. Included in this definition are transmission and reception towers
of commercial and private radio and television broadcasting and re-
broadcasting stations, cable television facilities, cellular and other
telephone facilities, paging and personal communication facilities, and public
and private utility facilities including attachments.
(Ord. 1397.17.14 § I, 1996)
17.12.1650 Wrecking yard.
   “Wrecking yard” means a place, lot or area where the primary function is
that of dismantling, storage, abandonment or sale of goods and materials as
parts or scraps.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1660 Yard.
   “Yard” means a space on the same lot with a principal building, which is
open and unoccupied other than by steps, walks, terraces, driveways, lamp posts
and similar structures, and unobstructed by structures, except as otherwise
provided in this title.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1670 Yard, corner side.
   “Yard, corner side” means a yard on a corner lot the area of which is
bounded by a line extending from the front of the principal building (the front
building line) to a point intersecting the side street right-of-way line (side
lot line), then along the side lot line to a point intersecting the rear lot
line, then along the rear lot line to a point intersecting the line formed by
extending the wall of the nearest principal building paralleling the side lot
line.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1680 Yard, front.
   “Yard, front” means a yard extending across the full width of the lot
between two side lot lines the depth of which is the least distance between the
street right-of-way and the front building line.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1690 Yard, rear.
   “Yard, rear” means a yard extending across the full width of the lot between
the two side lot lines and between the rear line and a parallel line tangent to
the rear of the principal building and the depth of which is the least distance
between the rear lot line and the parallel line.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
17.12.1700 Yard, side.
   “Yard, side” means a yard extending between the front building line and the
rear building line, the width of which is the least distance between the side
lot line and the nearest part of the principal building.
(Ord. 1178 § 3.1 (part), 1987)
Chapter 17.14
FEES
Sections:
17.14.010   Purpose of fees.
17.14.020   Application fees.
17.14.010 Purpose of fees.
   It is the intent of this title to require petitioners to pay a portion of
the public services that are necessary for processing their request. While the
city is not expecting one hundred percent recovery of all costs, it does feel
that all required publication and mailing costs, plus a portion of
administrative costs, should be borne by the petitioner.
(Ord. 1178 § 8.2.1, 1987)
17.14.020 Application fees.
   A.   Fees for matters pertinent to the administration of this title will be
set from time to time by ordinance of the city council, including fees for:
   1.   Zoning text amendments, no charge;
   2.   Rezonings/P.A.D. amendment, $350.00/+ $30.00/per acre;
   3.   General Plan amendment, $350.00/+ $30.00/per acre;
   4.   Pre-plats, $350.00/+ $3.00/lot;
   5.   Final plats, $350.00/+ $3.00/lot;
   6.   Replats, $100.00;
   7.   Major site plan reviews, $100.00;
   8.   Variances, owner-occupied residential uses, $100.00;
   9.   Variances, all other, $350.00;
   10.   Conditional use permit, $350.00;
   11.   Special temporary use permit, $100.00;
   12.   Appeals, $200.00;
   13.   Amendments to previously approved site plans, $100.00
   B.   For purposes of this title, the first site plan filed for a site
developed prior to the effective date of the ordinance codified in this title
or for a site developed prior to annexation shall be considered an amendment to
a previously approved site plan.
   C.   Filing fee may be waived by the city council for any application filed
by any agency or department of the city of any government organized under the
laws of the state of Arizona or of the United States. The exception shall not
apply to nongovernmental leases of government land.
   D.   The city council may waive fees to avoid duplication of charges or
undue hardship.
(Ord. 1397.01.1 § 5, 1992; Ord. 1178 § 8.2.2, 1987)
Chapter 17.16
ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES
Sections:
17.16.010   Zone classifications designated.
17.16.020   Zone boundaries interpreted.
17.16.030   Permitted uses in specific zones.
17.16.010 Zone classifications designated.
   A.   For the purpose of this title, the city shall be divided into the
following zones:
   1.   UR — Urban Ranch Zone;
   2.   R-1 — Single-Family Residential Zone;
   3.   R-1a — Single-Family Residential Zone;
   4.   R-2 — Multi-Family Residential Zone;
   5.   R-3 — Multi-Family Residential Zone;
   6.   R-4 — Mobile Home Residential Zone;
   7.   B-1 — Neighborhood Business Zone;
   8.   B-2 — General Business Zone;
   9.   B-3 — Central Business Zone;
   10.   B-4 — Community Service Zone;
   11.   I-1 — Garden Industrial Zone;
   12.   I-2 — General Industrial Zone;
   13.   PAD — Planned Area Development;
   14.   Neighborhood Conservation District Zone;
   15.   Planned Area Development — Recreational Vehicle Park Overlay Zoning
District;
   16.   CO — Commercial Office Zone;
   17.   RR — Rural Ranch;
   18.   SH — Suburban Homestead.
   B.   The boundaries of the zones are established as shown on a map entitled
“Zoning Map of Casa Grande, Arizona,” which has been recommended and certified
by the city council with the signature of the mayor affixed thereto and is made
a part of this title.
(Ord. 1397.17.34 § 1, 2009: Ord. 1397.17.33 § 1, 2006: Ord. 1397.17.17 § 1,
1997: Ord. 1397.17.15 § 7, 1997: Ord. 1397.16.2 § 2 (part), 1994; Ord. 1178 §
4.1, 1987)
17.16.020 Zone boundaries interpreted.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to any of the boundaries of the zones
as shown on the Zoning Map, the following rules shall apply:
   A.   Where zone boundaries are indicated as approximately following the
center lines of street, highway, or railroad rights-of-way or such lines
extended, such center lines or such lines extended shall be construed to be
such boundaries;
   B.   Where zone boundaries are indicated as approximately following the
corporate limit line of the city, such corporate limit line shall be construed
to be such boundaries;
   C.   Where zone boundaries are indicated as approximately following property
lines or such lines extended, such property lines or such lines extended shall
be construed to be such boundaries;
   D.   Where zone boundaries are indicated as approximately following the
center line of stream beds or river beds, such center lines or such lines
extended shall be construed to be such boundaries;
   E.   No zone boundary line shall hereinafter be established to divide one
lot into two or more zones unless the size of the lot in question is such that
division is determined to be essential by the planning and zoning commission
and the city council.
(Ord. 1178 § 4.2, 1987)
17.16.030 Permitted uses in specific zones.
   A.   Principally Permitted Uses. Refer to Principally Permitted Uses in
Tables
17.16.030 A and
17.16.030 B codified at the end of this chapter.
   B.   Conditionally Permitted Uses. Refer to Conditionally Permitted Uses in
Table 17.16.030 A and
17.16.030 B for the specific zone classification in question.
   C.   Permitted Accessory Uses. Refer to Permitted Accessory Uses in
Table 17.16.030 A and
17.16.030 B for the specific zone in question.
(Ord. 1178.32 attachment A, 1990: Ord. 1178 §§ 4.3.1, 4.3.2, 1987)
 UR RR SH R-1 R-1a R-2 R-3 R-4
                                                  UR RR SH R-1 R-1a R-2 R-3 R-4
A.   Principally Permitted Uses                                    
Single-family dwelling unit                       o  o  o  o   o    o      o
Manufactured dwelling                                                o
Two family structure                                       o    o      o
Three family structure                                         o   o    
Four family structure                                          o   o    
Multiple family structure                                      o   o    
Residential facility                              o  o  o  o   o    o       
Townhouse cluster, not to exceed four (4) units                o   o    
or 120 feet in length
Townhouse cluster with four or more units, but                    o    
not to exceed 160 feet in length
Public parks                                      o  o  o  o   o    o   o   o
Commercial Agricultural Uses Including:                               
-Field crops, truck gardening, berry or bush
crops, tree crops, flower gardening, plant        o  o  o                
nurseries and green houses, orchards, aviaries,
and apiaries.
-Raising and marketing of poultry, rabbits, and
small animals, but not slaughtering of other than o  o  o                
such raised on the premises.
-The grazing and raising of livestock and horses
except that not more than three (3) hogs shall be
kept or maintained on any parcel, lot or tract    o  o  o                
under one ownership within 500' of any more
restrictive zone.
-Fruit, vegetable or agricultural products
packing or processing plant, provided the same is
located on a site of not less than 10 acres and   o  o  o                
any buildings located thereon occupy not more
than 30% of the site area.
-Livestock sales yard or auction yard, provided
the site where located is not less than one-half
mile (as the crow flies) from a more restrictive
residential zone or within one-half mile of any
exterior boundary of a more restrictive zone.     o  o  o                
Further, that the site is not less than twenty
acres in area and applicant shall provide the
Planning Director with written consent of 51% of
the owners by number and area of property within
300 hundred feet of proposed site.
-A stand of not more than 200 square feet in area
for the sale of farm products grown or produced
on the premises, provided said stand is not more  o  o  o                
than 10 feet to any street right-of-way line and
not closer than 20 feet to any other lot line.
-Public riding stables and boarding stables,
providing the site contains not less than 10
acres and the buildings housing animals set back  o  o  o                
from all lot lines a distance of not less than
100 feet.
-Wireless telecommunication facilities (28 feet   o  o  o                
height or under)
B.   Conditionally Permitted Uses                                  
Bed & breakfast establishments (tourist home)^    o  o  o  o^  o^   o^  o^  o^
Cemeteries                                        o  o  o  o              
Charity dining facilities, homeless shelters, and o  o  o  o   o    o   o   o
similar services
Churches                                          o  o  o  o   o    o   o   o
Day care centers^^                                o  o  o  o   o    o   o   o
Electrical sub-stations                           o  o  o  o   o    o   o   o
Gas regulating stations                           o  o  o  o   o    o   o   o
Golf courses                                      o  o  o  o   o    o   o   o
^Bed and breakfast establishments (tourist homes) are conditionally permitted
in these zoning districts only if they are located within a historical district
or historical landmark as designated pursuant to Section
17.62.050 of this code.
^^Day care centers involving the care of minor children shall meet the
requirements set forth in Section
17.24.030.D.
Group homes                                             o       o   o    
Manufactured dwelling subject to the provisions
of Section                                        o  o  o  o              
17.52.075
Model homes, temporary                            o  o  o  o   o    o   o   o
Public/quasi-public buildings and uses (all
buildings to be located at least 50' from         o  o  o  o   o    o   o   o
property lines)
Recreational vehicles within a mobile home park                      o
Recreational vehicle storage areas                                   o
Schools                                           o  o  o  o   o    o   o   o
Sewer lift station                                o  o  o  o   o    o   o   o
Temporary sales and office buildings, buildings   o  o  o  o   o    o   o   o
incidental to construction work
Water pump station                                o  o  o  o   o    o   o   o
Water tower                                       o  o  o  o   o    o   o   o
Wireless telecommunication facilities (over 28    o  o  o                
feet)
C.    Permitted Accessory Uses                                     
Accessory dwelling subject to the provisions of
Section                                           o  o  o  o   o    o      o
17.52.105
Fences                                            o  o  o  o   o    o   o   o
Greenhouse                                        o  o  o  o   o    o   o   o
Home occupations                                  o  o  o  o   o    o   o   o
Private garage                                    o  o  o  o   o    o   o   o
Private or jointly owned community center,
recreational facilities, pools, tennis courts,    o  o  o  o   o    o   o   o
spas
Qualified patient/caregiver cultivation location
as defined by and subject to the provisions of    o  o  o  o   o    o   o   o
Section
17.12.947
Tool sheds, for storage of domestic supplies      o  o  o  o   o    o   o   o
 
Table 17.16.030B
Business and Industrial Zone Uses
 B-1 B-2 B-4 I-1 I-2
     B-3
Table 17.16.030B
Business and Industrial Zone Uses
                                                              B- B- B- I-1 I-2
                                                              1  2  4
                                                                 B-
                                                                 3
A.   Principally Permitted Uses
Animal hospital, clinic and kennel providing the
establishment and animal runs are completely enclosed in the        o  o
building
Appliance sales, service                                         o  o
Appliance repair                                                    o
Athletic clubs                                                   o  o  o
Automobile, boat or recreational vehicle sales, maintenance      o  o  o
and rental
Automobile repair service (major)                                      o
Automobile repair service (minor)                                      o
Bakery, Commercial                                                     o   o
Bakery, Retail                                                o  o  o
Banks and other savings and lending institutions              o  o  o
Barber shop                                                   o  o  o
Beauty parlor                                                 o  o  o
Blueprint shop and photo processing                              o  o  o   o
Bottling plant                                                         o   o
Bowling alley                                                       o  o
Building material sales yard, including sand and gravel             o  o
Bus terminals                                                       o  o
Business and office machine sales, service and repair shop       o  o  o
Business, technical or vocational school                            o  o   o
Cabinet shop and furniture manufacture                                 o   o
Candy and ice cream store                                     o  o
Cigar and tobacco store                                       o  o
Clothing and costume rental shop                                 o  o
Commercial recreation                                               o
Community center or meeting hall                                 o  o
Contractors storage yard                                            o  o   o
Convenience food store with four or less pumps^^^             o  o  o
Costume dressmaking, furrier, millinery or tailor shop           o  o
employing five persons or less
Dancing or theatrical studio                                     o  o
Deferred presentment company as defined in Section            o  o  o
17.12.415
Delicatessen and catering establishment                          o  o
Dry cleaning and laundry establishment                        o  o  o  o
Electrical, electronic or electromechanic machinery                    o   o
manufacture
Equipment rental or storage yard                                    o  o
Essential public service or utility installation              o  o  o  o   o
Exterminator shop                                                   o  o   o
Exterior storage of goods and materials provided that all
goods and materials are screened from view from adjacent            o  o   o
properties and rights-of-way
Feed store, including yard                                          o  o   o
Fertilizer manufacture, subject to Section                                 o
17.36.030(Q)
Florist                                                       o  o  o
Food processing, not including meat packing                            o   o
Frozen food locker                                                  o  o
Game rooms, pool halls                                           o  o
Garden supply store                                              o  o  o
General service uses including business, personal and            o  o
professional service establishments
General retail businesses engaged in direct sales to the         o  o
ultimate consumer
Grainery, elevator storage                                                 o
Greenhouse                                                          o  o
Hospital                                                         o  o
Hotel or motel                                                   o  o
Ice and cold storage plant                                          o  o   o
Interior decorator's shop                                        o  o
Impound yard                                                        o  o   o
Laundromat, self service                                      o  o
Liquefied petroleum gas storage and similar storage areas           o  o   o
pursuant to uniform building and fire codes as adopted
Liquor store                                                  o  o  o
Lock and key shop                                                o  o
Machine shop                                                        o  o   o
Mail order catalog store                                         o  o
Manufacture of pharmaceutical products and food products
including soft drinks, but not including production of fish            o
or meat products, sauerkraut, vinegar or rendering or
refining of fats or oils
Manufacturing                                                              o
Manufacturing, light                                                o  o   o
Medical, dental or health clinic                                 o  o
Marijuana dispensaries within the overlay area defined by §  o# o# o# o#  o#
17.52.610
Marijuana uses                                                      o#  o#
Monument sales and engraving shop                                   o  o
Mortuary                                                         o  o
Museum                                                           o  o  o
Music studio                                                     o  o
Newsstand                                                     o  o
Offices                                                       o  o  o
Optician                                                         o  o
Pawn shop                                                        o  o
Photographic studio                                              o  o
Printing and publishing house (including newspapers)                o  o   o
Private club, fraternity, sorority or lodge                      o  o
Product development and product testing activities                     o   o
Public buildings                                              o  o  o  o   o
Public utility service yard                                         o  o   o
Radio and television studio                                      o  o  o
Recycling center                                                    o  o   o
Restaurant, greater than 3,500 square feet                       o  o
Restaurants of not more than 3,500 square feet, excluding     o  o  o
convenience food restaurant
Self-storage facility                                               o  o   o
Sexually oriented businesses subject to licensing
requirements of                                                  o  o  o   o
Chapter 5.24
Shoe repair and shoe shine shop                                  o  o
Swap meet, flea market                                              o  o
Tavern, bar or lounge                                            o  o  o
Taxidermist                                                      o  o  o   o
Theatre, excluding drive-in theatre                              o  o
Theatre, drive-in                                                   o
Tire sales, repair and mounting                                     o  o
Truck repairing and overhauling                                     o  o
Truck stop                                                          o  o
Truck washing establishment                                         o  o
Trucking yard terminal                                              o  o
Upholstery shop                                                     o  o
Video arcade                                                        o
Video sales and rental                                           o  o
Warehousing                                                            o   o
Warehousing, limited (not to cover more than 40% of floor           o  o   o
area)
Watch repair shop                                                o  o
Wireless telecommunication facilities (See note below for         o* o** o***
height limitations)
Large Single Retail Use and Large Multiple Use Shopping Centers, shall only be
permitted at locations specified, and when developed in accordance with Section
17.40.020 of this Code.
#Marijuana uses are subject to the restrictions set forth in
Chapter 17.52, Article VII.
^^^Convenience stores with four or less gas pumps shall meet the requirements
set forth in Section
17.24.030.B.
 
Conditionally Permitted Uses. Refer to conditionally permitted uses for the
specific zone classification in question.
Permitted Accessory Uses. Refer to permitted accessory uses for the specific
zone in question.
*   Height is 35 feet or less.
**   The maximum height of any wireless facility shall comply with the maximum
building height in the I-1 Zone
   District, unless a conditional use permit is approved authorizing additional
height.
*** The maximum height of any wireless facility shall comply with the maximum
building height in the 1-2 Zone District, unless a conditional use permit is
approved authorizing additional height.
(Ord. 1397.17.61 § 1 (part), 2024; Ord. 1397.17.62 § 1 (part), 2024; Ord.
1397.17.60 § 6, 2023; Ord. 1397.17.53 §§ 2-4, 2021; Ord. 1397.17.50 § 1, 2019;
Ord. 1397.17.45 § 2, 2014; Ord. 1397.17.37 §§ 2- 4, 2011: Ord. 1397.17.36 § 3,
2009: Ord. 1397.17.35 § 2, 2009: Ord. 1397.17.34 § 2, 2009: Ord. 1397.17.33 §
2, 2006: Ord. 1397.17.29 § 1 (part), 2001: Ord. 1397.17.28 § 1, 2001: Ord.
1397.17.21 § 1, 1999: Ord. 1397.17.20 § I, 1998: Ord. 1397.17.16 § III, 1997:
Ord. 1397.17.14 §§ II, III, IV, 1996: Ord. 1397.17.12, 1994: Ord. 1397.17.11 §
3, 1994: Ord. 1397.16.2 §§ 1 (part), 2 (part), 1994: Ord. 1397.17.8 § 1, 1993:
Ord. 1178.44 § 2, 1991: Ord. 1178.32 attachment A, 1990: Ord. 1178 § 4.3.2,
1987)
Chapter 17.20
RESIDENTIAL ZONES
Sections:
Article I. Urban Ranch Residential (UR) Zone
17.20.010   Purpose of provisions.
17.20.020   Principally permitted uses.
17.20.030   Conditionally permitted uses.
17.20.040   Permitted accessory uses.
17.20.050   Lot area and dimensions.
17.20.060   Setbacks, yards and heights.
17.20.070   Permitted encroachment into required setbacks.
17.20.080   Additional building and performance standards.
17.20.090   Property in floodplains to comply with certain requirements.
Article II. Single-Family Residential (R-1) Zone
17.20.100   Purpose of provisions.
17.20.110   Principally permitted uses.
17.20.120   Conditionally permitted uses.
17.20.130   Permitted accessory uses.
17.20.140   Lot area and dimensions.
17.20.150   Setbacks, yards and heights.
17.20.160   Permitted encroachment into required setbacks.
17.20.170   Additional building and performance standards.
17.20.180   Property in floodplains to comply with certain requirements.
Article III. Single-Family Residential (R-1a) Zone
17.20.190   Purpose of provisions.
17.20.200   Principally permitted uses.
17.20.210   Conditionally permitted uses.
17.20.220   Permitted accessory uses.
17.20.230   Lot area and dimensions.
17.20.240   Setbacks, yards and heights.
17.20.250   Permitted encroachment into required setbacks.
17.20.260   Additional building and performance standards.
17.20.270   Property in floodplains to comply with certain requirements.
Article IV. Multi-Family Residential (R-2) Zone
17.20.280   Purpose of provisions.
17.20.290   Principally permitted uses.
17.20.300   Conditionally permitted uses.
17.20.310   Permitted accessory uses.
17.20.320   Lot area and dimensions.
17.20.330   Schedule of allowances.
17.20.340   Setbacks, yards and heights.
17.20.350   Multi-family accessory buildings.
17.20.360   Required distance between buildings.
17.20.370   Additional building and performance standards.
17.20.380   Property in floodplains to comply with certain requirements.
Article V. Multi-Family Residential (R-3) Zone
17.20.390   Purpose of provisions.
17.20.400   Principally permitted uses.
17.20.410   Conditionally permitted uses.
17.20.420   Permitted accessory uses.
17.20.430   Lot area and dimensions.
17.20.440   Schedule of allowances.
17.20.450   Setbacks, yards and heights.
17.20.460   Accessory buildings.
17.20.470   Required distance between buildings.
17.20.480   Additional building and performance standards.
17.20.490   Property in floodplains to comply with certain requirements.
Article VI. Mobile Home Residential (R-4) Zone
17.20.500   Purpose of provisions.
17.20.510   R-4 Zone established.
17.20.520   Principally permitted uses.
17.20.530   Conditionally permitted uses.
17.20.540   Permitted accessory uses.
17.20.550   Lot area and dimensions.
17.20.560   Setbacks, yards and heights.
17.20.570   Permitted encroachment into required setbacks.
17.20.580   Reserved
17.20.590   Required maintenance of property.
17.20.600   Required inspections—Authority.
17.20.610   Additional building and performance standards.
17.20.620   Property in floodplains to comply with certain requirements.
Article VII. Rural Ranch (RR) Residential Zone
17.20.630   Purpose of provisions.
17.20.640   Principally permitted uses.
17.20.650   Conditionally permitted uses.
17.20.660   Permitted accessory uses.
17.20.670   Lot area and dimensions.
17.20.680   Setbacks, yards and heights.
17.20.690   Permitted encroachment into required setbacks.
17.20.700   Additional building and performance standards.
17.20.710   Property in floodplains to comply with certain requirements.
Article VIII. Suburban Homestead (SH) Residential Zone
17.20.720   Purpose of provisions
17.20.730   Principally permitted uses
17.20.740   Conditionally permitted uses
17.20.750   Permitted accessory uses
17.20.760   Lot areas and dimensions
17.20.770   Setbacks, yards and heights
17.20.780   Permitted encroachments into required setbacks
17.20.790   Additional building and performance standards
17.20.800   Property in floodplains to comply with certain requirements
Article I. Urban Ranch Residential (UR) Zone
17.20.010 Purpose of provisions.
   A.   The purpose of the Urban Ranch Residential (UR) Zone is to provide
principally for the development of single family detached dwelling units at
very low densities and to provide for the establishment and/or maintenance of a
wide range of agricultural uses. The primary purpose of requiring larger
minimum lot sizes is to assure an adequate area for the very low density
residential lifestyles that currently exist within the city limits, and to
continue to allow for the various forms of agricultural activities for
indefinite periods of time.
   B.   This zone shall be applied to those city areas which are not only
generally rural in character, but also those areas which may undergo more
intensive development. In which case, the same zoning district shall be
considered as a “holding” classification.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.1.1, 1987)
17.20.020 Principally permitted uses.
   For principally permitted uses in the UR Zone, see
Table 17.16.030 A in
Chapter 17.16 of this code.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.1.2, 1987)
17.20.030 Conditionally permitted uses.
   For conditionally permitted uses in the UR Zone, see
Table 17.16.030 A in
Chapter 17.16 in
Chapter 17.16 of this code.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.1.3, 1987)
17.20.040 Permitted accessory uses.
   For permitted accessory uses in the UR Zone, see
Table 17.16.030 A in
Chapter 17.16 of this code.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.1.4, 1987)
17.20.050 Lot area and dimensions.
   Lot area and dimensions for the UR Zone are as set out in
Table 17.20.050 codified at the end of this chapter.
(Ord. 1397.17.25 § 1, 2000; Ord. 1178 § 5.1.5, 1987)
17.20.060 Setbacks, yards and heights.
   Setbacks, yards and heights for the UR Zone are as set out in
Table 17.20.060 codified at the end of this chapter.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.1.6, 1987)
17.20.070 Permitted encroachment into required setbacks.
   Permitted encroachments into required setbacks in the UR Zone are as
follows:
   A.   Open steps and decks shall be permitted to extend into the required
front and side yard setbacks a distance of not more than five feet.
   B.   Covered patios, decks, porches or carports shall not be permitted
encroachments in any required front or side yard setbacks.
   C.   Normal roof projections (eaves) into required side yards: A house or
garage roof may not be constructed within three feet of a side property line.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.1.7, 1987)
17.20.080 Additional building and performance standards.
   Development of any portion of land within the UR Zone shall be subject to
all applicable requirements of Chapters
17.52 through
17.64 of this title. Furthermore, if the proposed uses include more than just
the normal farming operations (i.e. packing, processing, sales and/or auction
yards, etc.) the planning director shall require all necessary fencing, and/or
screening of the proposed uses (see Articles III. and V. of
Chapter 17.52 of this title) if it is deemed to be in the best interests of the
surrounding land uses and/or development pattern.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.1.8, 1987)
17.20.090 Property in floodplains to comply with certain requirements.
   Any property located in the UR Zone and any floodplain as designated in
Chapter 15.40 of this code and must comply with
Chapter 15.40 requirements.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.1.9, 1987)
Article II. Single-Family Residential (R-1) Zone
17.20.100 Purpose of provisions.
   The purpose of the R-1 Zone is to provide for the development of single-
family detached dwellings and directly related complementary uses at a low
density. The R-1 Zone is intended to be strictly residential in character with
a minimum of disturbances due to traffic or overcrowding.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.2.1, 1987)
17.20.110 Principally permitted uses.
   For principally permitted uses in the R-1 Zone, see
Table 17.16.030 A in
Chapter 17.16 of this code.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.2.2, 1987)
17.20.120 Conditionally permitted uses.
   For conditionally permitted uses in the R-1 Zone, see
Table 17.16.030 A in
Chapter 17.16 of this code.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.2.3, 1987)
17.20.130 Permitted accessory uses.
   For permitted accessory uses in the R-1 Zone, see
Table 17.16.030 A in
Chapter 17.16 of this code.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.2.4, 1987)
17.20.140 Lot area and dimensions.
   Lot area and dimensions for the R-1 Zone are as set out in
Table 17.20.140 codified at the end of this chapter.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.2.5, 1987)
17.20.150 Setbacks, yards and heights.
   Setback, yard and height requirements for the R-1 Zone are as set out in
Table 17.20.150 codified at the end of this chapter.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.2.6, 1987)
17.20.160 Permitted encroachment into required setbacks.
   For permitted encroachments into required setbacks in the R-1 Zone see
Section
17.20.070 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.2.7, 1987)
17.20.170 Additional building and performance standards.
   Development of any parcel of land within the R-1 Zone shall be subject to
all applicable requirements of Chapters
17.52 through
17.64 of this title.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.2.8, 1987)
17.20.180 Property in floodplains to comply with certain requirements.
   Any property located in the R-1 Zone and any floodplain as designated in
Chapter 15.40 of this code, must comply with
Chapter 15.40 requirements.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.2.9, 1987)
Article III. Single-Family Residential (R-1a) Zone
17.20.190 Purpose of provisions.
   The purpose of the R-1a Zone is to provide for the development of single-
family dwellings and directly related complementary uses at a moderate density.
The R-1a Zone is intended to be strictly residential in character with a
minimum of disturbances due to traffic or overcrowding.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.3.1, 1987)
17.20.200 Principally permitted uses.
   For principally permitted uses in the R-1a Zone, see
Table 17.16.030 A in
Chapter 17.16 of this code.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.3.2, 1987)
17.20.210 Conditionally permitted uses.
   For conditionally permitted uses in the R-1a Zone, see
Table 17.16.030 A in
Chapter 17.16 of this code.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.3.3, 1987)
17.20.220 Permitted accessory uses.
   For permitted accessory uses in the R-1a Zone, see
Table 17.16.030 A in
Chapter 17.16 of this code.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.3.4, 1987)
17.20.230 Lot area and dimensions.
   Lot area and dimensions in the R-1a Zone are as set out in
Table 17.20.230 codified at the end of this chapter.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.3.5, 1987)
17.20.240 Setbacks, yards and heights.
   Setback, yard and height requirements in the R-1a Zone are as set out in
Table 17.20.240 codified at the end of this chapter.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.3.6, 1987)
17.20.250 Permitted encroachment into required setbacks.
   For permitted encroachment into required setbacks in the R-1a Zone, see
Section
17.20.070 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.3.7, 1987)
17.20.260 Additional building and performance standards.
   Development of any parcel of land within the R-1a Zone shall be subject to
all applicable requirements of Chapters
17.52 through
17.64 of this title.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.3.8, 1987)
17.20.270 Property in floodplains to comply with certain requirements.
   Any property located in the R-1a Zone and any floodplain as designated in
Chapter 15.40 of this code, must comply with
Chapter 15.40 requirements.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.3.9, 1987)
Article IV. Multi-Family Residential (R-2) Zone
17.20.280 Purpose of provisions.
   The purpose of the R-2 Zone is to provide for medium density housing in
multiple-family structures and directly related complementary uses. The R-
2 Zone is designed to allow economical use of land while creating an
attractive, functional and safe residential environment.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.4.1, 1987)
17.20.290 Principally permitted uses.
   For principally permitted uses in the R-2 Zone, see
Table 17.16.030 A in
Chapter 17.16 of this code.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.4.2, 1987)
17.20.300 Conditionally permitted uses.
   For conditionally permitted uses in the R-2 Zone, see
Table 17.16.030 A in
Chapter 17.16 of this code.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.4.3, 1987)
17.20.310 Permitted accessory uses.
   For permitted accessory uses in the R-2 Zone, see
Table 17.16.030 A in
Chapter 17.16 of this code.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.4.4, 1987)
17.20.320 Lot area and dimensions.
   In determining minimum lot area and minimum lot dimensions in the R-2 Zone,
use
Table 17.20.320 codified at the end of this chapter.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.4.5, 1987)
17.20.330 Schedule of allowances.
   The minimum areas per unit in
Table 17.20.320 may be adjusted according to the following, except allowance
shall not be made for two or three family dwellings.
   A.   For each parking stall in or under the residence, or otherwise
completely underground, subtract four hundred square feet from the total
minimum lot area.
   B.   For each unit with a balcony or patio greater than forty square feet,
subtract one hundred square feet from the outdoor living area.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.4.6, 1987)
17.20.340 Setbacks, yards and heights.
   For setbacks, yards and heights in the R-2 Zone see
Table 17.20.340 codified at the end of this chapter.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.4.7, 1987)
17.20.350 Multi-family accessory buildings.
   A.   Accessory buildings shall observe the same setback requirements
established for the multiple residence building except that accessory buildings
located within the rear yard of the multiple-residence building may be located
to within five feet of the rear or interior side property line. The city
council may require common walls for accessory buildings on the same lot where
common walls will eliminate unsightly and hazardous areas. Accessory buildings
on the same lot shall otherwise be separated by a distance of not less than ten
feet.
   B.   Exteriors of accessory buildings shall have an exterior finish
compatible to the main structure. Compatibility shall be determined by the city
based on type and use of building materials.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.4.8, 1987)
17.20.360 Required distance between buildings.
   When two or more principal buildings are located on one lot, the minimum
separation between any two adjacent principal buildings shall be a distance not
less than twenty feet.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.4.9, 1987)
17.20.370 Additional building and performance standards.
   Development of any parcel of land within the R-2 Zone shall be subject to
all applicable requirements of Chapters
17.52 through
17.64 of this title.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.4.10, 1987)
17.20.380 Property in floodplains to comply with certain requirements.
   Any property located in the R-2 Zone and any floodplain as designated in
Chapter 15.40, must comply with
Chapter 15.40 requirements.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.4.11, 1987)
Article V. Multi-Family Residential (R-3) Zone
17.20.390 Purpose of provisions.
   The purpose of the R-3 Zone is to provide for high density housing in
multiple-family structures and directly related complementary uses. The R-
3 Zone is designed to allow highly economical use of land while creating an
attractive, functional and safe residential environment.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.5.1, 1987)
17.20.400 Principally permitted uses.
   For principally permitted uses in the R-3 Zone, see
Table 17.16.030 A in
Chapter 17.16 of this code.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.5.2, 1987)
17.20.410 Conditionally permitted uses.
   For conditionally permitted uses in the R-3 Zone, see
Table 17.16.030 A in
Chapter 17.16 of this code.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.5.3, 1987)
17.20.420 Permitted accessory uses.
   For permitted accessory uses in the R-3 Zone, see
Table 17.16.030 A in
Chapter 17.16 of this code.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.5.4, 1987)
17.20.430 Lot area and dimensions.
   In determining minimum lot area and minimum lot dimensions in the R-3 Zone,
Table 17.20.430 codified at the end of this chapter shall be used.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.5.5, 1987)
17.20.440 Schedule of allowances.
   The minimum areas per unit in Section
17.20.430 above may be adjusted in accordance with Section
17.20.330 of the R-2 Zone.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.5.6, 1987)
17.20.450 Setbacks, yards and heights.
   Minimum setbacks from property line in the R-3 Zone shall be as set out in
Table 17.20.450 codified at the end of this chapter.
(Ord. 1397.17.31 § 1, 2002; Ord. 1178 § 5.5.7, 1987)
17.20.460 Accessory buildings.
   For accessory buildings in the R-3 Zone, see Section
17.20.350 of this title.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.5.8, 1987)
17.20.470 Required distance between buildings.
   For required distance between buildings in the R-3 Zone, see Section
17.20.360 of this title.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.5.9, 1987)
17.20.480 Additional building and performance standards.
   Development of any parcel of land within the R-3 Zone shall be subject to
all applicable requirements of Chapters
17.52 through
17.64 of this title.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.5.10, 1987)
17.20.490 Property in floodplains to comply with certain requirements.
   Any property located in the R-3 Zone and any floodplain as designated in
Chapter 15.40, must comply with
Chapter 15.40 requirements.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.5.11, 1987)
Article VI. Mobile Home Residential (R-4) Zone
17.20.500 Purpose of provisions.
   The purpose of the R-4 Zone is to promote affordable housing and make
economical use of the land by allowing the development of mobile home
communities at medium densities.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.6.1, 1987)
17.20.510 R-4 Zone established.
   No R-4 Zone may be established unless the site contains at least ten acres
of land.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.6.2, 1987)
17.20.520 Principally permitted uses.
   For principally permitted uses in the R-4 Zone, see
Table 17.16.030 A in
Chapter 17.16 of this code.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.6.3, 1987)
17.20.530 Conditionally permitted uses.
   For conditionally permitted uses in the R-4 Zone, see
Table 17.16.030 A in
Chapter 17.16 of this code.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.6.4, 1987)
17.20.540 Permitted accessory uses.
   For permitted accessory uses in the R-4 Zone, see
Table 17.16.030 A in
Chapter 17.16 of this code.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.6.5, 1987)
17.20.550 Lot area and dimensions.
   Lot area and dimension requirements in the R-4 Zone shall be as set out in
Table 17.20.550 codified at the end of this chapter.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.6.6, 1987)
17.20.560 Setbacks, yards and heights.
   Setback, yard and height requirements for the R-4 Zone are as set out in
Table 17.20.560 codified at the end of this chapter.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.6.7, 1987)
17.20.570 Permitted encroachment into required setbacks.
   For permitted encroachment into required setbacks in the R-4 Zone, see
Section
17.20.070.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.6.8, 1987)
17.20.580 Reserved
17.20.590 Required maintenance of property.
   Required maintenance of property in the R-4 Zone shall be as follows:
   A.   There shall be no occupancy of any mobile home until an occupancy
permit is issued; no occupancy permit shall be issued unless the mobile home is
connected to public sewer and water lines;
   B.   No mobile home may be parked on a roadway for more than twenty-four
hours;
   C.   No abandoned, burned, or wrecked mobile home may be kept within the R-
4 Zone for more than thirty days;
   D.   Each mobile home must bear an insignia which attests that the
construction of mobile home meets regulation A119.1 of the American National
Standards Institute (adopted by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Developments);
   E.   Standard mobile home skirting must be provided around the entire
perimeter of the mobile home between the bottom of the body and the mobile home
and the ground;
   F.   Each mobile home must be securely anchored to a permanent concrete pad
acceptable to the city;
   G.   There shall be no exposed outdoor storage of furniture (except lawn
furniture), household goods, tools, equipment, or building materials or
supplies.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.6.10, 1987)
17.20.600 Required inspections—Authority.
   A.   The city zoning administrator or agent is authorized to make
inspections as are necessary to determine satisfactory compliance with this
title and shall have the authority to enter at reasonable times upon any
private or public real property for the purpose of inspection and investigating
conditions relating to the enforcement of this title.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the owners of mobile home parks or persons in
charge thereof, or owners or occupants of a lot in a mobile home subdivision,
to allow the city zoning administrator or his agent free access to such
premises at reasonable times for the purpose of inspections.
   C.   It shall be the duty of every occupant of a mobile home park to allow
the owner thereof, or his agents or employees, access to any part of the mobile
home park at reasonable times for the purpose of making repairs or alterations
as may be necessary to effect compliance with this title or with any lawful
order issued pursuant to the provisions of this title.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.6.11, 1987)
17.20.610 Additional building and performance standards.
   Development of any parcel of land within the R-4 Zone shall be subject to
all applicable requirements of Chapters
17.52 through
17.64 of this title.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.6.12, 1987)
17.20.620 Property in floodplains to comply with certain requirements.
   Any property located in the R-4 Zone and any floodplain as designated in
Chapter 15.40, must comply with
Chapter 15.40 requirements.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.6.13, 1987)
Article VII. Rural Ranch (RR) Residential Zone
17.20.630 Purpose of provisions.
   A.   The purpose of the Rural Ranch (RR) Residential Zone is to provide
principally for the development of single-family detached dwelling units at
very low densities, and to provide for the establishment and/or maintenance of
a wide range of agricultural uses. The primary purpose of requiring larger
minimum lot sizes is to assure an adequate area for the very low density
residential lifestyles that currently exist within the city limits, to continue
to allow for various forms of agricultural activities, and to preserve the rich
history of a rural nature within the city.
   B.   This zone may be applied both to those city areas which are generally
rural in character or to those areas which may undergo more intensive
development. In the latter case, the same zoning district shall be considered
as a “holding” classification.
(Ord. 1397.17.33 § 4 (part), 2006)
17.20.640 Principally permitted uses.
   For principally permitted uses in the RR Zone, see
Table 17.16.030A, Section A., in
Chapter 17.16 of this code.
(1397.17.33 § 4 (part), 2006)
17.20.650 Conditionally permitted uses.
   For conditionally permitted uses in the RR Zone, see
Table 17.16.030A, Section B., in
Chapter 17.16 of this code.
(Ord. 1397.17.33 § 4 (part), 2006)
17.20.660 Permitted accessory uses.
   For permitted accessory uses in the RR Zone, see
Table 17.16.030A, Section C., in
Chapter 17.16 of this code.
(Ord. 1397.17.33 § 4 (part), 2006)
17.20.670 Lot area and dimensions.
   Lot area and dimensions for the RR Zone are as set out in
Table 17.20.670 codified at the end of this chapter.
(Ord. 1397.17.33 § 4 (part), 2006)
17.20.680 Setbacks, yards and heights.
   Setbacks, yards and heights for the RR Zone are as set out in
Table 17.20.680 codified at the end of this chapter.
(Ord. 1397.17.33 § 4 (part), 2006)
17.20.690 Permitted encroachment into required setbacks.
   Permitted encroachments into required setbacks in the RR Zone are as
follows:
   A.   Open steps and decks shall be permitted to extend into the required
front and side yard setbacks a distance of not more than five feet.
   B.   Covered patios, decks, porches or carports shall not be permitted
encroachments in any required front or side yard setbacks.
   C.   Normal roof projections (eaves) into required side yards. A house or
garage roof may not be constructed within three feet of a side property line.
1397.17.33 § 4 (part), 2006)
17.20.700 Additional building and performance standards.
   Development of any portion of land within the RR Zone shall be subject to
all applicable requirements of Chapters
17.52 through
17.64 of this title. Furthermore, if the proposed uses include more than just
normal farming operations (i.e., packing, processing, sales and/or auction
yards, etc.), the planning director shall require all necessary fencing and/or
screening of the proposed uses (see Articles III and V of
Chapter 17.52 of this title), if it is deemed to be in the best interests of
the surrounding land uses and/or development pattern.
(Ord. 1397.17.33 § 4 (part), 2006)
17.20.710 Property in floodplains to comply with certain requirements.
   Any property located in the RR Zone, and any floodplain as designated in
Chapter 15.40 of this code, and must comply with
Chapter 15.40 requirements.
(Ord. 1397.17.33 § 4 (part), 2006)
Article VIII. Suburban Homestead (SH) Residential Zone
17.20.720 Purpose of provisions.
   A.   The purpose of the Suburban Homestead (SH) Residential Zone is to
provide principally for the development of single-family detached dwelling
units at very low densities, and to provide for the establishment and/or
maintenance of a wide range of agricultural uses. The primary purpose of
requiring larger minimum lot sizes is to assure an adequate area for the very
low density residential lifestyles that currently exist within the city limits,
to continue to allow for various forms of agricultural activities, and to
preserve the rich history of a rural nature within the city.
   B.   This zone may be applied both to those city areas that are generally
rural in character, or to those areas that may undergo more intensive
development. In the latter case, the same zoning district shall be considered
as a “holding” classification.
(Ord. 1397.17.34 § 4 (part), 2009)
17.20.730 Principally permitted uses.
   For principally permitted uses in the SH Zone, see
Table 17.16.030A, Section A, in
Chapter 17.16 of this code.
(Ord. 1397.17.34 § 4 (part), 2009)
17.20.740 Conditionally permitted uses.
   For conditionally permitted uses in the SH Zone, see
Table 17.16.030A, Section B, in Chapter 17 of this code.
(Ord. 1397.17.34 § 4 (part), 2009)
17.20.750 Permitted accessory uses.
   For permitted accessory uses in the SH Zone, see
Table 17.16.030A, Section C, in
Chapter 17.16 of this code.
(Ord. 1397.17.34 § 4 (part), 2009)
17.20.760 Lot area and dimensions.
   Lot area and dimensions for the SH Zone are as set out in
Table 17.20.760 codified at the end of this chapter.
(Ord. 1397.17.34 § 4 (part), 2009)
17.20.770 Setbacks, yards and heights.
   Setbacks, yards and heights for the SH Zone are as set out in
Table 17.20.770 codified at the end of this chapter.
(Ord. 1397.17.34 § 4 (part), 2009)
17.20.780 Permitted encroachments into required setbacks.
   Permitted encroachments into required setbacks in the SH Zone are as
follows:
   A.   Open steps and decks shall be permitted to extend into the required
front and side yard setbacks a distance of not more than five feet.
   B.   Covered patios, decks, porches or carports shall not be permitted
encroachments in any required front or side yard setbacks.
   C.   Normal roof projections (eaves) into required side yards: a house or
garage roof may not be constructed within three feet of a side property line.
(Ord. 1397.17.34 § 4 (part), 2009)
17.20.790 Additional building and performance standards.
   Development of any portion of land within the SH Zone shall be subject to
all applicable requirements of Chapters
17.52 through
17.64 of this title. Furthermore, if the proposed uses include more than just
normal farming operations (i.e., packing, processing, sales and/or auction
yards, etc.), the planning director shall require all necessary fencing and/or
screening of the proposed uses (see Articles III and V of
Chapter 17.52 of this title), if it is deemed to be in the best interests of
the surrounding land uses and/or development pattern.
(Ord. 1397.17.34 § 4 (part), 2009)
17.20.800 Property in floodplains to comply with certain requirements.
   Any property located in the SH Zone and any floodplain, as designated in
Chapter 15.40 of this code, must comply with
Chapter 15.40 requirements.
(Ord. 1397.17.34 § 4 (part), 2009)
Chapter 17.20 - Tables
Table 17.20.050
Urban Ranch Zone Lot Area and Lot Dimensions
A. Required Lot Area:
Use                          Minimum Lot Area
Single-family dwelling units 54,450 square feet1
Other Permitted Uses         54,450 square feet (minimum) unless otherwise
                             specified in chart outlined in Table 17.16.030
1 This may be calculated as an average lot size for lots within a given
subdivision, provided no lot is less than 30,400 square feet in size and that
not more than ten percent of the lots are less than 32,000 square feet in
size.
B. Required Lot Dimensions:
Use                          Minimum Lot Width Minimum Lot Depth
Single-family dwelling units 100 feet          150 feet
Other permitted uses         Lot dimensions to be determined by building area,
                             parking requirements and required setbacks.
C. Density
There shall not be more than one (1) single-family dwelling unit on any one
(1) lot.
 
Table 17.20.060
Urban Ranch Zone
 
                 Minimum Front Minimum Side  Minimum Corner Minimum Rear Yard
Use              Yard Setback  Yard Setback  Side Yard      Setback from
                 from Property from Property Setback from   Property Line
                 Line          Line          Property Line
Single-family -  20' *         10'           20'            40'
detached
All other
principal or
conditional uses
(including their 50'           50'           50'            50'
accessory use
structures over
675 square feet)
Accessory        Per Section
structures       17.52.100
* Side-loaded garages, front porches and garage-forward living areas shall
have a minimum front yard setback of 15'.
Maximum Building Height: 28 feet.
 
(Ord. 1397.17.65 § 1, 2025; Ord. 1397.17.55 § 1, 2022; Ord. 1397.17.36 § 4
(part), 2009)
Table 17.20.140
R-1 Zone
A.   Required Lot Area:
Use                           Minimum Lot Area
Single-family dwelling units  7,000 square feet1
Other Permitted Uses          Minimum area to be determined by building area,
                              parking requirements, and required setbacks.
1 This may be calculated as an average lot size for lots within a given
subdivision, provided no lot is less than 6,600 square feet in size and that
not more than 10 percent of the lots are less than 7,000 square feet in size
B.   Required Lot Dimensions:
Use                           Minimum Lot Width  Minimum Lot Depth
Single-family dwelling        70 feet            100 feet
Other permitted uses          Lot dimensions to be determined by building area,
                              parking requirements and required setbacks.
C.   Density: There shall not be more than one (1) single-family dwelling unit
on any one lot.
 
Table 17.20.150
R-1 Zone
    Minimum Front Yard Minimum Side Yard Minimum Corner Side Minimum Rear Yard
Use Setback from       Setback from      Yard Setback from   Setback from
    Property Line      Property Line     Property Line       Property Line
                 Minimum Front Minimum Side  Minimum Corner Minimum Rear Yard
Use              Yard Setback  Yard Setback  Side Yard      Setback from
                 from Property from Property Setback from   Property Line
                 Line          Line          Property Line
Single-family -  15' *         5'/10' **     15' *          20'
detached
Schools, civic,
cultural and
religious
institutions     50'           50'           50'            50'
(including their
accessory use
structures over
675 square feet)
Accessory        Per Section
structures       17.52.100
Structures for
all other        20'           10'           20'            20'
principal or
conditional uses
* A garage door, or the front of a carport, that faces a street shall have a
minimum setback of 20'.
** No side shall be less than five feet; at least one side yard shall be a
minimum of ten feet.
Maximum Building Height: 28 feet.
 
(Ord. 1397.17.65 § 1, 2025; Ord. 1397.17.55 § 2, 2022; Ord. 1397.17.36 § 4
(part), 2009)
Table 17.20.230
R-1a Zone
A.    Required Lot Area:
Use                          Minimum Lot Area
Single-family dwelling units 5,000 square feet
Other Permitted Uses         Minimum area to be determined by building area,
                             parking requirements, and required setbacks
1 This may be calculated as an average lot size for lots within a given
subdivision, provided no lot is less than 4,500 square feet in size and that
not more than 10 percent of the lots are less than 5,000 square feet in size.
B.    Required Lot Dimensions:
Use                          Minimum Lot Width Minimum Lot Depth
Single-family dwelling units 45 feet           100 feet
Other Permitted Uses         Lot dimensions to be determined by building area,
                             parking requirements and required setbacks.
C.    Density: There shall not be more than one (1) single-family dwelling
unit on any one (1) lot.
 
Table 17.20.240
R-1a Zone
    Minimum Front Yard Minimum Side Yard Minimum Corner Side Minimum Rear Yard
Use Setback from       Setback from      Yard Setback from   Setback from
    Property Line      Property Line     Property Line       Property Line
                 Minimum Front Minimum Side  Minimum Corner Minimum Rear Yard
Use              Yard Setback  Yard Setback  Side Yard      Setback from
                 from Property from Property Setback from   Property Line
                 Line          Line          Property Line
Single-family -  15' *         3'/10' **     15' *          20'
detached
Single-family -
attached duplex  20' *         3'/10' ***    20'            20'
dwellings ***
Schools, civic,
cultural and
religious
institutions     50'           50'           50'            50'
(including their
accessory use
structures over
675 square feet)
Accessory        Per Section
structures       17.52.100
Structures for
all other        20'           3'/10' **     20'            20'
principal or
conditional uses
* A garage door, or the front of a carport, that faces a street shall have a
minimum setback of 20'.
** At least one side yard shall be a minimum of ten feet; the setback for the
remaining side may be a minimum of 3 feet provided that there is a 10-foot
separation (minimum) from the adjacent home.
*** Zero lot line development which results in the creation of a two-family
residential structure is permitted; however, each unit must be located on a
separate lot. Zero side yard setback allowed on interior side yard for duplex
units with shared walls.
Maximum Building Height: 28 feet.
 
(Ord. 1397.17.65 § 1, 2025; Ord. 1397.17.55 § 3, 2022; Ord. 1397.17.36 § 4
(part), 2009)
Table 17.20.320
R-2 Zone
Use                    Minimum Area Per Unit Minimum Lot Outdoor Living Area2
                                             Dimensions1
Single-family dwelling 5,000 sq. ft.         Width: 45'  600 sq. ft./
                                             Depth: 90'  dwelling unit
Two-family             3,000 sq. ft.         Width: 70'  600 sq. ft./
dwelling                                     Depth: 90'  dwelling unit
Three-family dwelling  3,000 sq. ft.         Width: 80'  500 sq. ft./
                                             Depth: 90'  dwelling unit
Four-family            3,000 sq. ft          Width: 80'  400 sq. ft./
dwelling                                     Depth: 90'  dwelling unit
Townhouse cluster      3,000 sq. ft.3        Width: 90'  400 sq. ft./
                                             Depth: 90'  dwelling unit
                                             Minimum area and lot dimensions
Other Permitted Uses                         to be determined by building
                                             area, parking requirements and
                                             required setbacks.
1 These dimensions apply to the initial lot size per structure. Initial lots
may be divided to accommodate individual ownership of the structures'
dwelling units.
2 Outdoor Living Area in the minimum amount specified above must be provided
on any lot occupied by the multiple residence or townhouse building. This
space must be easily accessible for daily recreational use by the occupants
of the building. Driveways, parking areas, ornamental landscaped areas
(having a width of less than 20 feet), and required side or front yards shall
not be considered as an Outdoor Living Area, except in the case of interior
townhouse units where said unit is less than 20 feet in width, in which case
the minimum width of the outdoor living area shall be the width of the lot.
3 May be calculated as average lot size per unit per structure.
 
Table 17.20.340
R-2 Zone
    Minimum Front Yard Minimum Side Yard Minimum Corner Side Minimum Rear Yard
Use Setback from       Setback from      Yard Setback from   Setback from
    Property Line      Property Line     Property Line       Property Line
                 Minimum Front Minimum Side    Minimum Corner Minimum Rear Yard
Use              Yard Setback  Yard Setback    Side Yard      Setback from
                 from Property from Property   Setback from   Property Line
                 Line          Line            Property Line
Single-family -  15' *         5'              15' *          20'
detached
Duplex, Tri-                   10' from
plex; Four-plex                perimeter side
or Townhome                    lot lines; zero
units on         15' *         setback allowed 15' *          20'
separate                       on interior lot
individual lots                lines with
                               shared walls
Duplex, Tri-
plex; Four-plex  15' *         10'             15' *          20'
and Townhomes on
one lot
Schools, civic,
cultural and
religious
institutions     50'           50'             50'            50'
(including their
accessory use
structures over
675 square feet)
Accessory        Per Section
structures       17.52.100
Structures for
all other        20'           10'             20'            20'
principal or
conditional uses
* A garage door, or the front of a carport, that faces a street, shall have a
minimum setback of 20'
Maximum Building Height: 28 feet.
 
(Ord. 1397.17.65 § 1, 2025; Ord. 1397.17.55 § 4, 2022; Ord. 1397.17.49 § 1,
2020; Ord. 1397.17.36 §§ 4 (part) and 5 (part), 2009)
Table 17.20.430
R-3 Zone
 
Use                    Minimum Area Per Unit Minimum Lot Outdoor Living Area2
                                             Dimensions1
Multi-family structure 2,000 sq. ft./unit    Width: 90'  300 sq. ft./unit
                                             Depth: 90'
Townhouse cluster      2,000 sq. ft./unit3   Width: 90'  400 sq. ft./unit
                                             Depth: 90'
                                             Minimum area and lot dimensions
Other Permitted Uses                         to be determined by building
                                             area, parking requirements and
                                             required setbacks.
1 These dimensions apply to the initial lot size per structure. Initial lots
may be divided to accommodate individual ownership of the structures'
dwelling units.
2 Outdoor Living Area in the minimum amount specified above must be provided
on any lot occupied by the multiple residence or townhouse building. This
space must be easily accessible for daily recreational use by the occupants
of the building. Driveways, parking areas, ornamental landscaped areas
(having a width of less than 20 feet), and required side or front yards shall
not be considered as Outdoor Living Area, except in the case of interior
townhouse units where said unit is less than 20 feet in width, in which case
the minimum width of the outdoor living area shall be the width of the lot.
3 May be calculated as average lot size per unit per structure.
 
Table 17.20.450
R-3 Zone
    Minimum Front Yard Minimum Side Yard Minimum Corner Side Minimum Rear Yard
Use Setback from       Setback from      Yard Setback from   Setback from
    Property Line      Property Line     Property Line       Property Line
                 Minimum Front Minimum Side    Minimum Corner Minimum Rear Yard
Use              Yard Setback  Yard Setback    Side Yard      Setback from
                 from Property from Property   Setback from   Property Line
                 Line          Line            Property Line
Single Family                  10' from
Attached Tri-                  perimeter side
plex; Four-plex                lot lines; zero
or Townhome      20' *         setback allowed 20'            20'
Units on                       on interior lot
separate                       lines with
individual lots                shared walls
Tri-plex; Four-
plex and         20'           15'             20'            20'
Townhomes on one
lot
Multi-family
buildings with   20'           20'             20'            20'
5+ units
Schools, civic,
cultural and
religious
institutions     50'           50'             50'            50'
(including their
accessory use
structures over
675 square feet)
Accessory        Per Section
structures       17.52.100
Structures for
all other        20'           10'             20'            20'
principal or
conditional uses
* Side-loaded garages, front porches and garage-forward living areas shall have
a minimum front yard setback of 15'.
Maximum Building Height: 35 feet.
 
(Ord. 1397.17.55 § 5, 2022; Ord. 1397.17.36 §§ 4 (part) and 5 (part), 2009)
Table 17.20.550
R-4 Zone
A.    Required Location:
Use                         Minimum Lot Area
Mobile homes to 16' width   3,500 square feet.
Mobile homes over 16' width 4,500 square feet.
Single-family dwelling      5,000 square feet.
Recreational vehicles*      3,500 square feet.
Other Permitted Uses        Minimum area to be determined by building areas,
                            parking requirements and required setbacks.
* Designated spaces within the mobile home community may be set aside for
recreational vehicle use, subject to minor site plan review. These spaces are
not to exceed ten percent (10%) of the total number of the spaces within the
mobile home community, unless a conditional use permit allowing a greater
percentage is obtained. In no case shall a mobile home be allowed on a space
designed for a recreational vehicle.
B.   Required Lot Dimensions: to be determined by building area, parking
requirements, and required setbacks.
 
Table 17.20.560
R-4 Zone
    Minimum Front Yard Minimum Side Yard Minimum Corner Side Minimum Rear Yard
Use Setback from       Setback from      Yard Setback from   Setback from
    Property Line      Property Line     Property Line       Property Line
                 Minimum Front Minimum Side  Minimum Corner Minimum Rear Yard
Use              Yard Setback  Yard Setback  Side Yard      Setback from
                 from Property from Property Setback from   Property Line
                 Line          Line          Property Line
Manufactured/
Mobile/Park      10'           5'            10'            10'
Model Homes and
RV’s
Single family
home (stick-     20' *         5'            10'            10'
built)
Schools, civic,
cultural and
religious
institutions     50'           50'           50'            50'
(including their
accessory use
structures over
675 square feet)
Accessory        Per Section
structures       17.52.100
Structures for
all other        20'           10'           20'            20'
principal or
conditional uses
* Side-loaded garages, front porches and garage-forward living areas shall
have a minimum front yard setback of 15'.
If a manufactured, mobile, park model home or RV features a carport, patio
cover, awning, or other extension, setbacks and/or extensions shall be
measured from the extension’s leading edge.
Maximum Building Height for Manufactured/Mobile/Park Homes and RV’s: 14 feet.
Maximum Building Height for Single Family stick-built: 28 feet.
Maximum Building Height for schools, civic, cultural, and religious
institutions, as well as all other principal or conditional uses: 30 feet.
Height may be increased to 45 feet if building is set back at least 200 feet
from property lines.
 
(Ord. 1397.17.55 § 6, 2022; Ord. 1397.17.36 § 6 (part), 2009)
Table 17.20.670
Rural Ranch Zone Lot Area and Lot Dimensions
A.   Required Lot Area:
Use                          Minimum Lot Area
Single-family dwelling units 144,000 square feet
Other permitted uses         144,000 square feet (minimum) unless otherwise
                             specified in chart outlined in Table 17.16.030
B.   Required Lot Dimensions:
Use                          Minimum Lot Width Minimum Lot Depth
Single-family dwelling units 300 feet          450 feet
Other permitted uses         Lot dimensions to be determined by building area,
                             parking requirements and required setbacks.
C.   Density
There shall not be more than one (1) single-family dwelling unit on any one
(1) lot.
 
(Ord. 1397.17.33 § 5 (part), 2006)
Table 17.20.680
Rural Ranch Zone
 
                 Minimum Front Minimum Side  Minimum Corner Minimum Rear Yard
Use              Yard Setback  Yard Setback  Side Yard      Setback from
                 from Property from Property Setback from   Property Line
                 Line          Line          Property Line
Single-family    20'           10'           20'            40'
dwelling
All other
principal or
conditional uses
(including their 50'           50'           50'            50'
accessory use
structures over
675 square feet)
Accessory        Per Section
structures       17.52.100
Maximum Building Height: 28 feet.
 
(Ord. 1397.17.65 § 1, 2025; Ord. 1397.17.55 § 7, 2022; Ord. 1397.17.36 § 4
(part), 2009: Ord. 1397.17.33 § 5 (part), 2006)
Table 17.20.760
Suburban Homestead Zone Lot Area and Lot Dimensions
A.   Required Lot Area:
Use                          Minimum Lot Area
Single-family dwelling units 87,120 square feet
Other permitted uses         87,120 square feet (minimum) unless otherwise
                             specified in chart outlined in Table 17.16.030
B.   Required Lot Dimensions:
Use                          Minimum Lot Width Minimum Lot Depth
Single-family dwelling units 100 feet          250 feet
Other permitted uses         Lot dimensions to be determined by building area,
                             parking requirements and required setbacks.
C.   Density
There shall not be more than one (1) single-family dwelling unit on any one
(1) lot.
 
(Ord. 1397.17.34 § 5 (part), 2009)
Table 17.20.770
Suburban Homestead Zone
 
                 Minimum Front Minimum Side  Minimum Corner Minimum Rear Yard
Use              Yard Setback  Yard Setback  Side Yard      Setback from
                 from Property from Property Setback from   Property Line
                 Line          Line          Property Line
Single-family    30'           10'           20'            40'
dwelling
All other
principal or
conditional uses
(including their 50'           50'           50'            50'
accessory use
structures over
675 square feet)
Accessory        Per Section
structures       17.52.100
Maximum Building Height: 28 feet.
 
(Ord. 1397.17.65 § 1, 2025; Ord. 1397.17.55 § 8, 2022; Ord. 1397.17.36 § 6
(part), 2009: Ord. 1397.17.34 § 5 (part), 2009)
Chapter 17.24
BUSINESS ZONES
Sections:
Article I. Neighborhood Business (B-1) Zone
17.24.010   Purpose of provisions.
17.24.020   Principally permitted uses.
17.24.030   Conditionally permitted uses.
17.24.040   Permitted accessory uses.
17.24.050   Access requirements.
17.24.060   Setbacks and height requirements.
17.24.070   Lot width and area requirements.
17.24.080   Additional building and performance standards.
17.24.090   Property in floodplains to comply with certain requirements.
Article II. General Business (B-2) Zone
17.24.100   Purpose of provisions.
17.24.110   Principally permitted uses.
17.24.120   Conditionally permitted uses.
17.24.130   Permitted accessory uses.
17.24.140   Access requirements.
17.24.150   Setbacks and height requirements.
17.24.160   Lot width and area requirements.
17.24.170   Additional building and performance standards.
17.24.180   Property in floodplains to comply with certain requirements.
Article III. Central Business (B-3) Zone
17.24.190   Purpose of provisions.
17.24.200   Principally permitted uses.
17.24.210   Conditionally permitted uses.
17.24.220   Permitted accessory uses.
17.24.230   Access requirements.
17.24.240   Setback and height requirements.
17.24.250   Lot width and area requirements.
17.24.260   Parking requirements.
17.24.270   Additional building and performance standards.
17.24.280   Property in floodplains to comply with certain requirements.
Article I. Neighborhood Business (B-1) Zone
17.24.010 Purpose of provisions.
   The purpose of the B-1 Zone is to provide for the establishment of local
centers for convenient retail or service outlets which deal directly with the
consumer for whom the goods or services are intended. These centers are to
provide services and goods primarily for the surrounding neighborhood and are
not intended to draw customers from the entire community.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.7.1, 1987)
17.24.020 Principally permitted uses.
   For principally permitted uses in the B-1 Zone, see
Table 17.16.030B in
Chapter 17.16 of this code.
(Ord. 1397.16.2 §§ 1 (part), 2 (part), 1994)
17.24.030 Conditionally permitted uses.
   Conditionally permitted uses in the B-1 Zone are as follows:
   A.   Churches;
   B.   Convenience store with more than four gas pumps:
   1.   Pump stands shall be set back not less than twenty-five feet from any
street right-of-way, not less than forty feet from any non-street property
line, and not less than one hundred feet from any residential district
boundary;
   2.   Interior curbs of not less than six inches in height shall be
constructed to separate driving surfaces from sidewalks, landscaped areas and
street rights-of-way; and
   3.   Site improvements such as buildings or structures (permanent or
temporary) shall be separated from any residential zone by at least fifty feet.
Parking areas shall be separated from any residential zone by at least fifteen
feet.
   C.   Schools;
   D.   Day care center.
   1.   Day care centers involved in the care of minor children shall provide
the following:
   a.   A minimum of seventy-five square feet of outdoor play space per child
shall be provided, from which at least fifty square feet of fenced-in play
space per child shall be provided. Fenced-in outdoor play space shall not
include driveways, parking areas or land unsuited, by virtue of other usage or
natural features, for children's play space;
   b.   At least two hundred and fifty square feet of lot area per child shall
be provided;
   E.   Model homes, temporary;
   F.   Video arcades;
   G.   Mortuary;
   H.   Museum;
   I.   Photographic studio;
   J.   Shoe repair and shoe shine shop;
   K.   Tavern, bar or lounge;
   L.   Video sales and rental;
   M.   Charity Dining Facilities, Homeless Shelters and Similar Services.
   1.   New facilities and services should be located in a manner that is
compatible with area uses.
   2.   Facilities and services shall be designed in such a way and operated in
such a manner which treats all participants with dignity and respect through
the provision of a sanitary, healthy and safe environment including rest rooms,
drinking water and seating areas.
   3.   Service providers shall provide a written plan to the city including
operational policies and procedures. This plan shall include, as applicable,
whether facility is a permanent or temporary location, hours/days of operation,
sanitation/health considerations, loitering control, safty provisions and other
pertinent information. An operational guideline is available for assistance in
preparation of this plan.
   4.   Shelters offering overnight sleeping facilities shall provide at least
thirty square feet of usable open space per each bed. This open space must be
enclosed by appropriate screening.
   5.   Facilities shall contain rest rooms meeting requirements set forth in
Appendix C of the Uniform Building Code.
   6.   Facilities shall provide rest rooms within the facilities with at least
one rest room for men and one for women.
   7.   Service providers providing food shall serve such meals within
buildings or enclosed areas. When meals are served outside, screening shall be
provided that separates the eating area from public view, i.e., wall, fencing,
landscaping consistent with existing neighborhood standards.
   8.   Service providers which frequently have people waiting outside for
services shall provide an adequate waiting area which shall be screened from
public view, i.e. wall, fencing, landscaping consistent with existing
neighborhood standards.
   9.   All service providers shall require participants and others to wait or
sleep in designated and approved areas;
   N.   Bed and breakfast establishments that are located within a historical
district or historical landmark as designated pursuant to Section
17.62.050 of this code.
(Ord. 1397.17.36 §§ 7 (part), 9 (part), 12 (part), 2009; Ord. 1397.17.11 § 2,
1994; Ord. 1178.32 § 2 (part), 1990; Ord. 1178 § 5.7.3, 1987)
17.24.040 Permitted accessory uses.
   Permitted accessory uses in the B-1 Zone are as follows:
   A.   Business signs, consistent with Section
17.58.050 of this title;
   B.   Trash receptacles, consistent with Section
17.58.050 of this title;
   C.   Accessory buildings as per Article II. of
Chapter 17.52 and as approved by the planning and zoning commission;
   D.   Temporary buildings incidental to construction work.
   E.   Accessory residential uses, single family, when occupied by the owner
or lessee, or watchman employed on the premises, and when such occupancy is
directly associated to a developed and occupied permitted use, and is located
within, or attached to, the principal building(s) of the permitted use. (No
freestanding building, manufactured or mobile home, or recreational vehicle
shall be permitted for such use.)
(Ord. 1397.17.18 § 2, 1997; Ord. 1397.16.2 §§ 1 (part), 2 (part), 1994; Ord.
1178 § 5.7.4, 1987)
17.24.050 Access requirements.
   Access requirements in the B-1 Zone shall be as follows:
   A.   Access to commercial activities shall be allowed only from arterial
streets or a street specifically designed for such development and shall meet
the requirements of Sections
17.56.080 —
17.56.100 of this title;
   B.   Commercial development which may not be able to meet the requirements
of Sections
17.56.080 —
17.56.100, and are requesting deviations from the noted standards, shall submit
to the city engineer an engineer's report certified by a professional engineer
addressing the following site conditions both present and future:
   1.   Traffic volumes;
   2.   Turning movements;
   3.   Traffic controls;
   4.   Site design;
   5.   Site distances;
   6.   Location and alignment of other access points.
   C.   Based upon the above data, the city engineer shall determine whether a
deviation from the required standards is justified, and if so, what alternative
requirements will be necessary.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.7.5, 1987)
17.24.060 Setbacks and height requirements.
   For setback and height requirements for the B-1 Zone, see
Table 17.24.060 codified at the end of this chapter.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.7.6, 1987)
17.24.070 Lot width and area requirements.
   Lot width and area requirements for the B-1 Zone are as follows:
   A.   The minimum lot width shall be one hundred feet;
   B.   Minimum lot area shall be determined by building area, parking
requirements and required setbacks.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.7.7, 1987)
17.24.080 Additional building and performance standards.
   Development of any parcel of land within the B-1 Zone shall be subject to
all applicable requirements of Chapters
17.52 through
17.64 of this title.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.7.8, 1987)
17.24.090 Property in floodplains to comply with certain requirements.
   Any property located in the B-1 Zone and any floodplain as designated in
Chapter 15.40, must comply with
Chapter 15.40 requirements.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.7.9, 1987)
Article II. General Business (B-2) Zone
17.24.100 Purpose of provisions.
   The purpose of the B-2 Zone is to provide for low intensity, retail or
service outlets which deal directly with the consumer for whom the goods or
services are intended. The uses allowed in this district are to provide goods
and services on a community market scale and located in areas which are served
by arterial street facilities.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.8.1, 1987)
17.24.110 Principally permitted uses.
   For principally permitted uses in the B-2 Zone, see
Table 17.16.030 B in
Chapter 17.16 of this code.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.8.2, 1987)
17.24.120 Conditionally permitted uses.
   Conditionally permitted uses in the B-2 Zone are as follows:
   A.   Automobile repair services (major and minor):
   1.   Site improvements such as buildings or structures (permanent or
temporary) shall be separated from any residential zone by at least fifty feet.
Parking areas shall be separated from any residential zone by at least fifteen
feet;
   2.   Interior curbs of not less than six inches in height shall be
constructed to separate driving surfaces from sidewalks, landscaped areas, and
street rights-of-way;
   3.   Any outdoor storage of vehicles, boats, parts or accessories shall be
in an enclosed area in the rear yard, and shall be screened from view by a six-
foot-high opaque wall or fence; and
   4.   The number of vehicles or boats undergoing repair or that are
inoperable which may be stored outside of the building is limited to one
vehicle or boat per four hundred square feet of floor area;
   B.   Automobile washing establishments:
   1.   Automobile washing establishments shall be subject to the same
limitations and conditions as specified in subsections A(1—6) above;
   2.   Sufficient off-street area to provide space for not less than ten
automobiles waiting to be washed or three waiting spaces per washing stall,
whichever is greater, shall be provided. A space twenty feet by nine feet shall
be deemed adequate for each required space;
   3.   All wash-water, disposal facilities including sludge, grit removal and
disposal equipment shall be subject to the approval of the city engineer and
shall conform with all city ordinances regarding sewage and health and shall be
designed so as not to detrimentally affect the city sewer system;
   C.   Churches;
   D.   Convenience-food restaurants:
   1.   Convenience food restaurants shall be subject to the same limitations
and conditions as are specified in subsections A(1), (5) and (6) above;
   E.   Convenience store with more than four gas pumps:
   1.   Pump stands shall be set back not less than twenty-five feet from any
street right-or-way, not less than forty feet from any non-street property
line, and not less than one hundred feet from any residential district
boundary;
   2.   Interior curbs of not less than six inches in height shall be
constructed to separate driving surfaces from sidewalks, landscaped areas and
street rights-of-way; and
   3.   Site improvements such as buildings or structures (permanent or
temporary) shall be separated from any residential zone by at least fifty feet.
Parking areas shall be separated from any residential zone by at least fifteen
feet;
   F.   Day care center.
   1.   Day care centers involved in the care of minor children shall provide
the following:
   a.   A minimum of seventy-five square feet of outdoor play space per child
shall be provided, from which at least fifty square feet of fenced-in play
space per child shall be provided. Fenced-in outdoor play space shall not
include driveways, parking areas or land unsuited, by virtue of other usage or
natural features, for children's play space;
   b.   At least two hundred fifty square feet of lot area per child shall be
provided;
   G.   Model homes, temporary;
   H.   Automobile parking lot or garage (public or private), subject to site
plan review procedures;
   I.   Animal hospital, clinic or kennel providing the establishment and
animal runs are completely enclosed in the building;
   J.   Exterminator shop;
   K.   Garden supply store;
   L.   Commercial recreation;
   M.   Printing and publishing house (including newspapers);
   N.   Upholstery shop;
   O.   Bus terminals;
   P.   Business, technical or vocational school;
   Q.   Swap meet, flea market;
   R.   Liquefied petroleum gas storage and dispensing; provided, that the
aggregate capacity of any one installation shall not exceed five hundred
gallons of water capacity and subject to Uniform Building and Fire Codes as
adopted;
   S.   Tire sales, repair and mounting;
   T.   Bed and breakfast establishments that are located within a historical
district or historical landmark as designated pursuant to Section
17.62.050 of this code;
   U.   Charity dining facilities, homeless shelters and similar services
subject to provisions of Section
17.24.030.M.
   V.   Self-storage facilities.
   1.   Refer to Section
17.24.170.B for development standards.
(Ord. 1397.17.60 § 2, 2023; Ord. 1397.17.36 §§ 7 (part), 9 (part), 10 (part),
12 (part), 2009; Ord. 1397.17.17 § 2, 1997: Ord. 1397.17.11 § 4 (part), 1994;
Ord. 1397 §§ 1 (part), 2 (part), 1994; Ord. 1397.17.4 § 1, 1992; Ord. 1178.44 §
1, 1991; Ord. 1178.32 § 2 (part), 1990; Ord. 1178.31, 1990; Ord. 1178 § 5.8.3,
1987)
17.24.130 Permitted accessory uses.
   Permitted accessory uses for the B-2 Zone are as follows:
   Those accessory uses permitted under Section
17.24.040 of the B-1 Zone.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.8.4, 1987)
17.24.140 Access requirements.
   Access requirements for the B-2 Zone shall be as follows:
   A.   Access to commercial activities shall be allowed only on arterial
streets or a street specifically designed for such development and shall meet
the requirements of Sections
17.56.080 through
17.56.100 of this code.
   B.   Commercial developments which may not be able to meet the requirements
of Sections
17.56.080 through
17.56.100 and are requesting deviations from the noted standards, shall submit
to the city engineer an engineer's report certified by a professional engineer
addressing the following site conditions, both present and future:
   1.   Traffic volumes;
   2.   Turning movements;
   3.   Traffic controls;
   4.   Site design;
   5.   Site distances;
   6.   Location and alignment of other access points.
   C.   Based upon the above data, the city engineer shall determine whether a
deviation from the requirement standards is justified and, if so, what
alternative requirements will be necessary.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.8.5, 1987)
17.24.150 Setbacks and height requirements.
   Setback and height requirements for the B-2 Zone shall be as out in
Table 17.24.150 codified at the end of this chapter.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.8.6, 1987)
17.24.160 Lot width and area requirements.
   Lot width and area requirements for the B-2 Zone shall be as follows:
   A.   The minimum lot width shall be one hundred and fifty feet except that
corner lots shall have a minimum width of two hundred feet.
   B.   Minimum lot area shall be determined by building area, parking
requirements and required setbacks.
(Ord. 1397.17.9 § 2 (part), 1993)
17.24.170 Additional building and performance standards.
   A.   Development of any parcel of land within the B-2 Zone shall be subject
to all applicable requirements of Chapters
17.52 through
17.64 of this code.
   B.   Self-storage facilities development standards:
   1.   On-site circulation, drive aisles, and parking:
   a.   A loading/unloading area, with a minimum width of ten feet shall be
provided adjacent and parallel along the entire length of any building which
has exterior access to an individual storage unit.
   b.   Refer to Section
17.56.080.C for drive aisle width.
   c.   Refer to Table
17.56.030.B for parking standards.
   2.   Setbacks: Setback requirements for self-storage facilities shall be as
set out in Table 17.24.170 codified at the end of this chapter.
   3.   Elevations: Building elevations with no openings may be used in-lieu
of, or in conjunction with the perimeter fencing.
   4.   Aesthetics and architectural standards:
   a.   Massing and scaling. The design of buildings shall avoid the appearance
of a single, large, dominant building mass by using design techniques that
include stepping back portions of the building facade, breaking up the mass
into smaller elements and/or using material changes.
   b.   Wall articulation. Building exteriors visible from the perimeter of the
site shall be designed to include architectural diversity and interest. Facades
that are publicly visible from rights-of-way or adjacent private property, may
not have blank, uninterrupted wall lengths exceeding fifty feet without
including at least two of the following: change in plane, change in texture or
masonry pattern, windows, trellis with vines, elevation changes, architectural
embellishments and detailing, accentuated lighting, and color variations or an
equivalent element that subdivides the wall into human scale proportions.
   i.   Side or rear walls that are publicly visible from rights-of-way or from
adjacent private property, shall include false windows and door openings when
actual doors and windows are not feasible because of the of the use of the
building. Such false windows and door openings shall be defined by frames,
sills and lintels, or similarly proportioned modulations of the wall.
   ii.   Encroachments. Awnings, eaves, overhangs, and light shelves may
encroach up to three feet into any required yard but shall not be closer than
two feet to any property line. Exception, the zoning administrator may approve
minor building projections that extend into the required setback upon finding
that the encroachment responds to functional requirements of the project, does
not adversely affect the adjacent property, and complies with all requirements
of the building code.
   5.   Landscaping.
   a.   On-site landscaped areas shall comply with
17.52.480.C.
   b.   When adjacent to residentially zoned or used properties, a landscape
buffer that meets the following standards shall be provided:
   i.   Buffer shall be along the entire length of the property boundary
adjacent to residentially zoned or used property.
   ii.   Width of the buffer shall be equal to the height of the perimeter
buildings or fifteen feet whichever is greater.
   iii.   A minimum of one tree shall be provided per thirty feet of buffer
area; said trees to be a minimum of fifteen-gallon size.
   iv.   The buffer area shall be covered with crushed and screened rock.
   v.   The Planning Commission may modify any of these standards in
conjunction with the review of the conditional use permit and/or major site
plan with a finding that said modification will maintain compatibility between
the self-storage facility and the adjacent residentially zoned or used
property.
   6.   Outdoor storage:
   a.   Shall be limited to operable and licensed vehicles, boats, and
trailers.
   b.   Any outdoor storage of vehicles, boats, or trailers shall be in a
defined area of the site that does not interfere with loading/unloading areas,
drive aisles, fire lanes, or parking areas.
   7.   All refuse enclosures shall be constructed of masonry walls with gates.
Said walls shall be a minimum of five feet in height.
   8.   Perimeter wall: Unless the building is being used as perimeter wall in
accordance with 17.24.170.B.3, the entire site, other than landscape areas,
shall be enclosed by a perimeter fence constructed of decorative concrete block
with a minimum height of six feet.
   9.   No auctions, commercial sales, garage sales or similar activities shall
be conducted on the premises other than in conjunction with an approved
temporary use permit (TUP).
Table 17.24.170 - Self-Storage
 
         Front/Corner Side                  Rear/Side
                                            When adjacent to residentially
                                            zoned or used properties, shall
         Equal to the height of the closest comply with the setbacks for the
Setbacks building to the street, but in no  zone district in which the site is
         case less than 15'                 located*.
                                            If not adjacent to residentially
                                            zoned or used properties, the
                                            setback may be reduced up to 0'.
 
*Said setback may be reduced or modified by the Planning Commission in
conjunction with their consideration of a CUP and/or Major Site Plan when
adjacent to Urban Ranch Zoning Districts or common areas (i.e., landscape
tracts, retention basins, etc.).
(Ord. 1397.17.60 §§ 3, 4, 2023; Ord. 1178 § 5.8.8, 1987)
17.24.180 Property in floodplains to comply with certain requirements.
   Any property located in the B-2 Zone and any floodplain as designated in
Chapter 15.40, must comply with
Chapter 15.40 requirements.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.8.9, 1987)
Article III. Central Business (B-3) Zone
17.24.190 Purpose of provisions.
   The purpose of the B-3 Zone is to provide for high intensity, retail or
service outlets which deal directly with the consumer for whom the goods or
services are intended. The uses allowed in this district are to provide goods
and services on a community market scale.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.9.1, 1987)
17.24.200 Principally permitted uses.
   For principally permitted uses in the B-3 Zone, see
Table 17.16.030 B in
Chapter 17.16 of this code.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.9.2, 1987)
17.24.210 Conditionally permitted uses.
   Conditionally permitted uses in the B-3 Zone are as follows:
   A.   Automobile repair services (minor):
   1.   Site improvements such as buildings or structures (permanent or
temporary) shall be separated from any residential zone by at least fifty feet.
Parking areas shall be separated from any residential zone by at least fifteen
feet;
   2.   Interior curbs of not less than six inches in height shall be
constructed to separate driving surfaces from sidewalks, landscaped areas, and
street rights-of-way;
   3.   Any outdoor storage of vehicles, boats, parts or accessories shall be
in an enclosed area in the rear yard, and shall be screened from view by a six-
foot-high opaque wall or fence; and
   4.   The number of vehicles or boats undergoing repair or that are
inoperable which may be stored outside of the building is limited to one
vehicle or boat per four hundred square feet of floor area;
   B.   Automobile washing establishments:
   1.   Automobile washing establishments shall be subject to the same
limitations and conditions specified in subsection 17.24.210.D. for convenience
food stores with more than four gas pumps;
   2.   Sufficient off-street area to provide space for not less than ten
automobiles waiting to be washed or three waiting spaces per washing stall,
whichever is greater, shall be provided. A space twenty feet by nine feet shall
be deemed adequate for each required space;
   3.   All wash-water, disposal facilities including sludge, grit removal and
disposal equipment shall be subject to the approval of the city engineer and
shall conform with all city ordinances regarding sewage and health and shall be
designed so as not to detrimentally affect the city sewer system;
   C.   Convenience-food restaurants:
   1.   Convenience-food restaurants shall be subject to the same limitations
and conditions as are specified heretofore in subsection
17.24.210.D. for convenience food stores with more than four gas pumps;
   D.   Convenience store with more than four pumps:
   1.   Pump stands shall be set back not less than twenty-five feet from any
street right-or-way, not less than forty feet from any non-street property
line, and not less than one hundred feet from any residential district
boundary;
   2.   Interior curbs of not less than six inches in height shall be
constructed to separate driving surfaces from sidewalks, landscaped areas and
street rights-of-way; and
   3.   Site improvements such as buildings or structures (permanent or
temporary) shall be separated from any residential zone by at least fifty feet.
Parking areas shall be separated from any residential zone by at least fifteen
feet;
   E.   Day care center:
   1.   Day care centers involved in the care of minor children shall provide
the following:
   a.   A minimum of seventy-five square feet of outdoor play space per child
shall be provided, from which at least fifty square feet of fenced-in play
space per child shall be provided. Fenced-in outdoor play space shall not
include driveways, parking areas or land unsuited, by virtue of other usage or
natural features, for children's play space;
   b.   At least two hundred and fifty square feet of lot area per child shall
be provided;
   F.   Residential dwelling units;
   G.   Animal hospital, clinic and kennel providing the establishment and
animal runs are completely enclosed in the building;
   H.   Exterminator shop;
   I.   Garden supply store;
   J.   Commercial recreation;
   K.   Printing and publishing house (including newspapers);
   L.   Upholstery shop;
   M.   Bus terminal;
   N.   Business, technical or vocational school;
   O.   Swap meet, flea market;
   P.   Tire sales, repair and mounting;
   Q.   Bed and breakfast establishments that are located within a historical
district or historical landmark as designated pursuant to Section
17.62.050 of this code;
   R.    Charity dining facilities, homeless shelters, and similar services
subject to provisions of Section
17.24.030(M)
   S.   Churches.
(Ord. 1397.17.36 §§ 7 (part), 8, 9 (part), 11, 12 (part), 2009; Ord. 1397.17.11
§ 4 (part), 1994; Ord. 1397.17.4 § 2, 1992; Ord. 1178.32 § 2 (part), 1990; Ord.
1178 § 5.9.3, 1987)
17.24.220 Permitted accessory uses.
   Permitted uses for the B-3 Zone are as follows:
   A.   Those accessory uses permitted under Section
17.24.040 of the B-1 Zone.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.9.4, 1987)
17.24.230 Access requirements.
   Access requirements for the B-3 Zone shall be as follows:
   A.   Access to commercial activities shall be allowed only on arterial
streets or a street specifically designed for such development and shall meet
the requirements of Sections
17.56.080 through
17.56.100 of this title.
   B.   Commercial developments which may not be able to meet the requirements
of Sections
17.56.080 through
17.56.100, and are requesting deviations from the noted standards, shall submit
to the city engineer an engineer's report certified by a professional engineer
addressing the following site conditions, both present and future:
   1.   Traffic volumes;
   2.   Turning movements;
   3.   Traffic controls;
   4.   Site design;
   5.   Site distances;
   6.   Location and alignment of other access points.
   C.   Based upon the above data, the city engineer shall determine whether a
deviation from the requirement standards is justified and, if so, what
alternative requirements will be necessary.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.9.5, 1987)
17.24.240 Setback and height requirements.
   Setback and height requirements for the B-3 Zone shall be as set out in
Table 17.24.240 codified at the end of this chapter.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.9.6, 1987)
17.24.250 Lot width and area requirements.
   Lot width and area requirements in the B-3 Zone shall be as follows:
   A.   The minimum lot width shall be twenty-five feet;
   B.   Minimum lot area shall be determined by building area, parking
requirements and required setbacks.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.9.7, 1987)
17.24.260 Parking requirements.
   Parking requirements within the B-3 Zone shall comply with all off-street
parking requirements of this title except that on-street parking can be used to
meet the required number of spaces or alternative means of providing parking
can be approved by the city, such as off-street parking improvement districts.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.9.8, 1987)
17.24.270 Additional building and performance standards.
   Development of any parcel of land within the B-3 Zone shall be subject to
all applicable requirements of Chapters
17.52 through
17.64 of this title.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.9.9, 1987)
17.24.280 Property in floodplains to comply with certain requirements.
   Any property located in the B-3 Zone and any floodplain as designated in
Chapter 15.40 of this code, must comply with
Chapter 15.40 requirements.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.9.10, 1987)
Chapter 17.24 - Tables
Table 17.24.060
B-1 Zone
A.   The minimum building setback from any B-1 Zone boundary or public street
right-of- way shall be set forth in this table.
Setbacks               Feet
Building Setbacks
Front                  35
Interior side and rear 15
Corner side            15
Residential Zone       45
Boundary
Parking Lots
Front                  4
Interior side and rear 3
Corner side            4
Residential Zone       3
boundary
B.    The maximum height of structures shall be 30 feet.
 
Table 17.24.150
B-2 Zone
A.    The minimum building setback from any lot line or public right-of-way
shall be as set forth in this table.
Setbacks                  Feet
Building Setbacks**
Front                     35
Rear                      15
Interior side             Aggregate of 15*
Corner side               25
Residential Zone boundary 45
*Both side yard setbacks, when added together must total 15 feet.
**For self-storage setbacks refer to Table 17.24.170.
Parking Lots
Front                     4
Interior side and rear    3
Corner side               4
Residential Zone boundary 3
B.    The maximum height of a structure shall be 35 feet.
 
(Ord. 1397.17.60 § 5, 2023)
Table 17.24.240
B-3 Zone
A.    The minimum building setback from lot line or public right-of-way shall
be as set forth in this table.
Setbacks               Feet
Building Setbacks
Front                  0
Interior side and rear 0
Corner side            0
Residential Zone       20
boundary
Parking Lots
Front                  4
Interior side and rear 3
Corner side            4
Residential Zone       3
boundary
B.    A structure may be erected to a height over 45' provided buildings over
35 feet in height shall be subject to additional fire protection as
determined by the city fire chief.
 
Chapter 17.28
COMMUNITY SERVICES ZONE
Sections:
17.28.010   Purpose of provisions.
17.28.020   Principally permitted uses.
17.28.030   Conditionally permitted uses.
17.28.040   Permitted accessory uses.
17.28.050   Access requirements.
17.28.060   Setback and height requirements.
17.28.070   Lot width and area requirements.
17.28.080   Additional building and performance standards.
17.28.090   Property in floodplains to comply with certain requirements.
17.28.010 Purpose of provisions.
   The purpose of the B-4 Community Services Zone is to provide for land
intensive retail, service, or manufacturing operations. These services should
be located in concentrated service areas with good accessibility to the public
but should be carefully buffered from other uses and visibly buffered from
arterial streets.
(Ord. 1178.32 § 2 (part), 1990: Ord. 1178 § 5.10.1, 1987)
17.28.020 Principally permitted uses.
   For principally permitted uses in the B-4 Zone, see
Table 17.16.030 B.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.10.2, 1987)
17.28.030 Conditionally permitted uses.
   Conditionally permitted uses in the B-4 Zone are as follows:
   A.   Convenience store with more than four gas pumps:
   1.   Pump stands shall be set back not less than twenty-five feet from any
street right-or-way, not less than forty feet from any non-street property
line, and not less than one hundred feet from any residential district
boundary;
   2.   Interior curbs of not less than six inches in height shall be
constructed to separate driving surfaces from sidewalks, landscaped areas and
street rights-of-way; and
   3.   Site improvements such as build- ings or structures (permanent or
temporary) shall be separated from any residential zone by at least fifty feet.
Parking areas shall be separated from any residential zone by at least fifteen
feet;
   B.   Automobile washing establishment as per Section
17.24.120(B) of this title;
   C.   Automobile repair services (major and minor):
   1.   Site improvements such as buildings or structures (permanent or
temporary) shall be separated from any residential zone by at least fifty feet.
Parking areas shall be separated from any residential zone by at least fifteen
feet;
   2.   Interior curbs of not less than six inches in height shall be
constructed to separate driving surfaces from sidewalks, landscaped areas, and
street rights-of-way;
   3.   Any outdoor storage of vehicles, boats, parts or accessories shall be
in an enclosed area in the rear yard, and shall be screened from view by a six-
foot-high opaque wall or fence; and
   4.   The number of vehicles or boats undergoing repair or that are
inoperable which may be stored outside of the building is limited to one
vehicle or boat per four hundred square feet of floor area;
   D.   Reserved;
   E.   Churches;
   F.   Charity dining facilities, homeless shelters and similar services
subject to provisions of Section
17.24.030.M;
   G.   Wireless telecommunication facilities with a height greater than
thirty-five feet;
   H.   Bed and breakfast establishments that are located within a historical
district or historical landmark as designated pursuant to Section
17.62.050 of this code;
   I.   Day care center.
   1.   Day care centers involved in the care of minor children shall provide
the following:
   a.   A minimum of seventy-five square feet of outdoor play space per child
shall be provided, from which at least fifty square feet of fenced-in play
space per child shall be provided. Fenced-in outdoor play space shall not
include driveways, parking areas or land unsuited, by virtue of other usage or
natural features, for children's play space; and
   b.    At least two hundred and fifty square feet of lot area per child shall
be provided.
(Ord. 1397.17.60 § 7, 2023; Ord. 1397.17.36 §§ 7 (part), 9 (part), 10 (part),
13, 2009: Ord. 1397.17.17 § 3, 1997: Ord. 1397.17.14 § V, 1996: Ord. 1397.17.11
§ 4 (part), 1994; Ord. 1397.16.2 § 2 (part), 1994; Ord. 1178.32 § 2 (part),
1990; Ord. 1178 § 5.10.3, 1987)
17.28.040 Permitted accessory uses.
   Permitted accessory uses in the B-4 Zone are as follows:
   A.   Those accessory uses permitted under Section
17.24.040 of the B-1 Zone;
   B.   Caretaker or security guard quarters.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.10.4, 1987)
17.28.050 Access requirements.
   Access requirements for the B-4 Zone shall be as follows:
   A.   Access to general service activities shall be allowed only on arterial
streets or a street specifically designed for such development and shall meet
the requirements of Sections
17.56.080 through
17.56.100 of this title.
   B.   General service developments which may not be able to meet the
requirements of Sections
17.56.080 through
17.56.100 and are requesting deviations from the noted standards, shall submit
to the town engineer an engineer's report certified by a professional engineer
addressing the following site conditions, both present and future:
   1.   Traffic volumes;
   2.   Turning movements;
   3.   Traffic controls;
   4.   Site design;
   5.   Site distances;
   6.   Location and alignment of other access points.
   C.   Based upon the above data, the city engineer shall determine whether a
deviation from the requirement standards is justified and, if so, what
alternative requirements will be necessary.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.10.5, 1987)
17.28.060 Setback and height requirements.
   Setback and height requirements for the B-4 Zone shall be as set out in
Table 17.28.060 codified at the end of this chapter.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.10.6, 1987)
17.28.070 Lot width and area requirements.
   Lot width and area requirements for the B-4 Zone are as follows:
   A.   The minimum lot width shall be one hundred fifty feet except that
corner lots shall be two hundred feet in width;
   B.   Minimum lot area shall be determined by building, area, parking
requirements and required setbacks.
(Ord. 1397.17.9 § 2 (part), 1993)
17.28.080 Additional building and performance standards.
   A.   Development of any parcel of land within the B-4 Zone shall be subject
to all applicable requirements of Chapters 17.52 through 17.64 of this title.
   B.   Refer to Section
17.24.170.B for self-storage facilities development standards.
(Ord. 1397.17.60 § 8, 2023; Ord. 1178 § 5.10.8, 1987)
17.28.090 Property in floodplains to comply with certain requirements.
   Any property located in the B-4 Zone and any floodplain as designated in
Chapter 15.40 of this code, must comply with
Chapter 15.40 requirements.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.10.9, 1987)
Table 17.28.060
B-4 Zone
A.    The minimum building setback from any lot line or public street right-of-
way shall be as set forth in this table.
Setbacks                  Feet
Building Setbacks**
Front                     35
Rear                      15
Interior side             Aggregate of 15*
Corner side               25
Residential Zone boundary 45
*Both side yard setbacks, when added together must total 15 feet.
**For self-storage setbacks refer to
Table 17.24.170.
Parking Lots
Front                     4
Interior side and rear    3
Corner side               4
Residential Zone boundary 3
B.    The maximum height of a structure shall be 35 feet.
 
(Ord. 1397.17.60 § 9, 2023)
Chapter 17.30
COMMERCIAL OFFICE ZONE
Sections:
17.30.010   Purpose of provisions.
17.30.020   Principally permitted uses.
17.30.030   Conditionally permitted uses.
17.30.040   Permitted accessory uses.
17.30.050   Lot development standards.
17.30.060   Additional building and performance standards.
17.30.010 Purpose of provisions.
   The commercial office (CO) zoning district is established to provide for
well-designed and attractive professional, administrative, and business offices
of a residential scale and character on sites in appropriate locations to serve
the nearby residential and commercial areas. The commercial office zoning
district is characterized by low volumes of direct customer contact, and is
designed to provide a transition of development between residential
neighborhoods and more intense land uses, districts, and heavily traveled
transportation routes. The principal uses permitted in this district are
professional, semi- professional, administrative, and business offices, and
branch offices for banks and similar financial institutions.
(Ord. 1397.17.15 § II (part), 1997)
17.30.020 Principally permitted uses.
   Principally permitted uses in the commercial office zone are as follows:
   A.   Professional, semi-professional, administrative and business offices;
   B.   Banks and similar financial institutions;
   C.   Medical, dental and chiropractic offices, but not including hospitals
or medical facilities;
   D.   Studios for photography, commercial arts, or other professional work.
   E.   Marijuana dispensaries within the overlay area defined by Section
17.52.610.
(Ord. 1397.17.53 § 5, 2021; Ord. 1397.17.37 § 5, 2011: Ord. 1397.17.15 § II
(part), 1997)
17.30.030 Conditionally permitted uses.
   Conditionally permitted uses in the commercial office zone are as follows:
   A.   Business, technical or vocational school(s).
(Ord. 1397.17.15 § II (part), 1997)
17.30.040 Permitted accessory uses.
   Permitted accessory uses in the commercial office zone are as follows:
   A.   Accessory residential uses, single-family, when occupied by the owner
or lessee, or a watchman employed on the premises, and when such occupancy is
directly associated to a developed and occupied permitted use, and is located
within, or attached to, the principal building(s) of the permitted use.  (No
freestanding building, manufactured or mobile home, or recreational vehicle
shall be permitted for such use.)
   B.   Restaurant, cafes, snack shops, coffee shops, and similar eating/
refreshment establishments; provided, that it is located within, or attached
to, the principal building(s) of the permitted use;
   C.   Day care centers, subject to the provisions of Section
17.24.030(D) (B-1 zoning district — day care center), and provided that it is
located within, or attached to, the principal building(s) of the permitted use;
   D.   Business signs, consistent with the city sign code, and as provided
below;
   E.   Trash receptacles, consistent with Section
17.58.050 of this title, and constructed, designed and colored to complement
the associated development.
(Ord. 1397.17.18 § 1, 1997; Ord. 1397.17.15 § II (part), 1997)
17.30.050 Lot development standards.
   A.   Minimum lot width: one hundred fifty feet (corner lots shall be two
hundred feet)
   B.   Minimum lot area shall be determined by building area, parking,
retention, landscaping and setback requirements.
   C.   Setbacks:
   Front: Thirty-five feet
   Rear: Fifteen feet
   Side: Fifteen feet
   Corner side: Twenty feet
   Residential zone boundary: Thirty feet
   D.   Maximum height: Thirty feet
(Ord. 1397.17.15 § II (part), 1997)
17.30.060 Additional building and performance standards.
   A.   All permitted uses, and all activity resulting therefrom, are
restricted to closed buildings, except for pass-through windows, employee and
customer parking, and any necessary loading/unloading of materials and
supplies.
   B.   No exterior display of materials or supplies, or outdoor storage shall
be permitted.
   C.   A six-foot high, decorative screening wall shall be used as a buffer
between any commercial office use and adjacent residential uses or zoning
districts.
   D.   Sign regulations shall be as follows:
   1.   Detached signs: shall be limited to one per public street frontage, and
shall be a low- profile, monument-style sign, no greater than eight feet in
height and thirty-two square feet in size. Landscaping shall be provided around
the base of the sign. The supporting structure shall be constructed and colored
to complement the development.
   2.   Attached signs: shall be limited to a combined area, along any public
street frontage, to one square foot of sign area per two linear feet of
building frontage. Maximum sign area shall be one hundred square feet.
   E.   Landscaping. For purposes of
Chapter 17.52, Article VI (landscaping requirements), the commercial office
zone shall be considered a commercial development.
   F.   Fences. For purposes of
Chapter 17.52, Article III (fences and walls), the commercial office zone shall
be considered a business and industrial district.
   G.   Development of any parcel of land within the commercial office zone
shall be subject to all applicable requirements of chapters
17.52 through
17.64 of this title.
(Ord. 1397.17.15 § II (part), 1997)
Chapter 17.32
GARDEN AND LIGHT INDUSTRIAL ZONE
Sections:
17.32.010   Purpose of provisions.
17.32.020   Principally permitted uses.
17.32.030   Conditionally permitted uses.
17.32.040   Permitted accessory uses.
17.32.050   Access requirements.
17.32.060   Setbacks and height requirements.
17.32.070   Lot width and area requirements.
17.32.080   Additional building and performance standards.
17.32.090   Property in floodplains to comply with certain requirements.
17.32.010 Purpose of provisions.
   The purpose of the I-1 Garden and Light Industrial Zone is to provide for
the accommodation of light manufacturing uses and warehousing in a
comprehensively planned and attractive setting and in a manner which will not
be detrimental to activities in adjacent commercial or residential
neighborhoods by reason of but not limited to excessive noise, odor, smoke,
dust, vibrations, fumes or glare. Retail activity is allowed only as an
accessory use and provided that the retailing is associated with the principal
use at the site.
(Ord. 1178.32 § 2 (part), 1990: Ord. 1178 § 5.11.1, 1987)
17.32.020 Principally permitted uses.
   For principally permitted uses in the I-1 Zone, see
Table 17.16.030 B in
Chapter 17.16 of this code.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.11.2, 1987)
17.32.030 Conditionally permitted uses.
   Conditionally permitted uses in the I-1 Zone are as follows:
   A.   Day care centers.
   1.   Day care centers involved in the care of minor children shall provide
the following:
   a.   A minimum of seventy-five square feet of outdoor play space per child
shall be provided, from which at least fifty square feet of fenced-in play
space per child shall be provided. Fenced-in outdoor play space shall not
include driveways, parking areas or land unsuited, by virtue of other usage or
natural features, for children's play space; and
   b.   At least two hundred and fifty square feet of lot area per child shall
be provided;
   B.   Charity dining facilities, homeless shelters and similar services
subject to the provisions of Section
17.24.030.M;
   C.   Wireless telecommunication facilities with a height greater than
thirty-five feet.
(Ord. 1397.17.36 § 12 (part), 2009: Ord. 1397.17.17 § 4, 1997: Ord. 1397.17.14
§ VI, 1996: Ord. 1178.60 § 1, 1995: Ord. 1397.17.11 § 4 (part), 1994; Ord. 1178
§ 5.11.2, 1987)
17.32.040 Permitted accessory uses.
   Permitted accessory uses in the I-1 Zone are as follows:
   A.   Personnel service facilities providing services, education, recreation,
entertainment, food and convenience goods primarily for those personnel
employed in the principal use;
   B.   Those accessory uses permitted under Section
17.24.040 of the B-1 Zone;
   C.   Caretaker or security guard quarters.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.11.4, 1987)
17.32.050 Access requirements.
   Access requirements in the I-1 Zone shall be as follows:
   A.   Access to development shall be allowed only on arterial streets or
streets specifically designed for such development and shall meet the
requirements of Sections
17.56.080 through
17.56.100 of this title.
   B.   Developments which may not be able to meet the requirements of Sections
17.56.080 through
17.56.100 and are requested deviations from the noted standards shall submit to
the city engineer an engineer's report certified by a professional engineer
addressing the following site conditions both present and future:
   1.   Traffic volumes;
   2.   Turning movements;
   3.   Traffic controls;
   4.   Site design;
   5.   Site distances;
   6.   Location and alignment of other access points.
   C.   Based upon the above data, the city engineer shall determine whether a
deviation from the requirement standards is justified and, if so, what
alternative requirements will be necessary.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.11.5, 1987)
17.32.060 Setbacks and height requirements.
   Setback and height requirements in the I-1 Zone shall be as set out in
Table 17.32.060 codified at the end of this chapter.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.11.6, 1987)
17.32.070 Lot width and area requirements.
   Lot width and area requirements for the I-1 Zone shall be as follows:
   A.   The minimum lot width shall be one hundred feet.
   B.   Minimum lot area shall be determined by building, area, parking
requirements and required setbacks.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.11.7, 1987)
17.32.080 Additional building and performance standards.
   A.   Development of any parcel of land within the I-1 Zone shall be subject
to all applicable requirements of Chapters
17.52 through
17.64 of this title.
   B.   Refer to Section
17.24.170.B for self-storage facilities development standards.
(Ord. 1397.17.60 § 10, 2023; Ord. 1178 § 5.11.8, 1987)
17.32.090 Property in floodplains to comply with certain requirements.
   Any property located in the I-1 Zone and any floodplain as designated in
Chapter 15.40, must comply with
Chapter 15.40 requirements.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.11.9, 1987)
Table 17.32.060
I-1 Zone
A.   The minimum building setback from any lot line or public street right-of-
way shall be as set out in this table.
Setbacks               Feet
Building Setbacks*
Front                  35
Interior side and rear 15
Corner side            30
Residential Zone       45
boundary
*For self-storage setbacks refer to
Table 17.24.170.
Parking Lots
Front                  4
Interior side and rear 3
Corner side            4
Residential Zone       3
boundary
B.   The maximum height of a structure shall be 45 feet.
 
(Ord. 1397.17.60 § 11, 2023; Ord. 1397.17.50 § 2, 2019)
Chapter 17.36
GENERAL INDUSTRIAL ZONE
Sections:
17.36.010   Purpose of provisions.
17.36.020   Principally permitted uses.
17.36.030   Conditionally permitted uses.
17.36.040   Permitted accessory uses.
17.36.050   Access requirements.
17.36.060   Setback and height requirements.
17.36.070   Lot width and area requirements.
17.36.080   Additional building and performance standards.
17.36.090   Property in floodplains to comply with certain requirements.
17.36.010 Purpose of provisions.
   The purpose of the I-2 General Industrial Zone is to provide for the
development of industries which, because of the nature of their operation,
appearance, traffic generation, or emission, would not be compatible with land
uses in other zoning districts, but which, nevertheless, are necessary and
desirable activities in the city.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.12.1, 1987)
17.36.020 Principally permitted uses.
   For principally permitted uses in the I-2 Zone, see
Table 17.16.030 B in
Chapter 17.16 of this code.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.12.2, 1987)
17.36.030 Conditionally permitted uses.
   Conditionally permitted uses in the I-2 Zone shall be as follows:
   A.   Airports, subject to the regulations of the Federal Aviation
Administration;
   B.   (Reserved);
   C.   Automobile reduction yard;
   D.   Excavation of sand, gravel, dirt, ore or minerals;
   E.   Fiberglass manufacturing and processing;
   F.   Heliports, subject to the regulations of the Federal Aviation
Administration;
   G.   Meat packing;
   H.   (Reserved);
   I.   Oil refineries;
   J.   Racetracks;
   K.   Railroad switching yards;
   L.   Scrap metal or used materials processing, handling, and storage
facilities, except recycling centers;
   M.   Sewage treatment plants;
   N.   (Reserved);
   O.   Junkyards;
   P.   Auto dismantling and salvage yards;
   Q.   Any production, testing, processing of goods or products; provided it
conforms with the performance standards set forth in Sections
17.58.010 through
17.58.140 for the emission or creation of noise, vibration, smoke, dust or
other particular matter, toxic or noxious materials, odors, glare or heat;
   R.   Those uses involving the storage, utilization or manufacture of
volatile or explosive materials or products;
   S.   Conditionally permitted uses as per Section
17.28.030 of this title;
   T.   Charity dining facilities, homeless shelters and similar services
subject to provisions of Section
17.24.030(M);
   U.   Wireless telecommunication facilities with a height greater than
seventy-five feet.
(Ord. 1397.17.50 § 3, 2019; Ord. 1397.17.14 § VII, 1996; Ord. 1397.17.11 § 4
(part), 1994; Ord. 1397.16.2 §§ 1 (part), 2 (part), 1994; Ord. 1178 § 5.12.3,
1987)
17.36.040 Permitted accessory uses.
   Permitted accessory uses in the I-2 Zone are as follows:
   A.   Personnel service facilities providing services, education, recreation,
entertainment, food and convenience goods primarily for those personnel
employed in the principal use;
   B.   Those accessory uses permitted under Section
17.24.040 of this code;
   C.   Caretaker or security guard quarters.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.12.4, 1987)
17.36.050 Access requirements.
   Access requirements in for the I-2 Zone shall be as follows:
   A.   Access to industrial development shall be allowed only on arterial
streets or streets specifically designed for such development and shall meet
the requirements of Sections
17.56.080 —
17.56.100 of this title;
   B.   Industrial developments which may not be able to meet the requirements
of Sections
17.56.080 through
17.56.100, and are requesting deviations from the noted standards shall submit
to the city engineer an engineer's report certified by a professional engineer
addressing the following site conditions both present and future:
   1.   Traffic volumes;
   2.   Turning movements;
   3.   Traffic controls;
   4.   Site design;
   5.   Site distance;
   6.   Location and alignment of other access points;
   C.   Based upon the above data, the city engineer shall determine whether a
deviation from the required standards is justified and, if so, what alternative
requirements will be necessary.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.12.5, 1987)
17.36.060 Setback and height requirements.
   Setback and height requirements for the I-2 Zone shall be as set out in
Table 17.36.060.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.12.6, 1987)
17.36.070 Lot width and area requirements.
   Lot width and area requirements for the I-2 Zone shall be as follows:
   A.   The minimum lot width shall be one hundred feet;
   B.   Minimum lot area shall be determined by building, area, parking
requirements and required setbacks.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.12.7, 1987)
17.36.080 Additional building and performance standards.
   A.   Development of any parcel of land within the I-2 Zone shall be subject
to all applicable requirements of Chapters
17.52 through
17.64 of this title.
   B.   Refer to Section
17.24.170.B. for self-storage facilities development standards.
(Ord. 1397.17.60 § 12, 2023; Ord. 1178 § 5.12.8, 1987)
17.36.090 Property in floodplains to comply with certain requirements.
   Any property located in the I-2 Zone and any floodplain as designated in
Chapter 15.40, must comply with
Chapter 15.40 requirements.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.12.9, 1987)
Table 17.36.060
I-2 Zone
A.    The minimum setback from any lot line or public right-of-way shall be
as set forth in this table.
Setbacks           Feet
Building Setbacks*
Front              35
Interior side and  15
rear
Corner side        30
Residential Zone   75
boundary
*For self-storage setbacks refer to
Table 17.24.170.
Parking Lots
Front              4
Interior side and  3
rear
Corner side        4
Residential Zone   3
boundary
B.    Maximum building height: 60 feet. Additional building height, up to a
maximum of 75 feet, may be achieved through compliance with the following
development standards:
   1.   Increasing building setbacks an additional 3 feet for every 1 foot of
height exceeding 60 feet.
   2.   Increasing the street frontage landscaping an additional 10 feet of
depth. Additional landscape area shall include an amount equal to or greater
than 1 tree and 3 shrubs for each 30 feet of frontage, and vegetative
groundcover occupying a minimum of 60%.
   3.   The building and its appurtenances shall be designed, constructed
and/or colored in order to correspond with the aesthetic, view-shed and other
characteristics of the area in which they are to be located.
 
(Ord. 1397.17.60 § 13, 2023; Ord. 1397.17.50 § 4, 2019)
Chapter 17.40
PLANNED AREA DEVELOPMENT ZONE
Sections:
17.40.010   Purpose of provisions.
17.40.015   Design Standards for Planned Area Developments.
17.40.020   General requirements and standards.
17.40.030   Property in floodplains to comply with certain requirements.
17.40.010 Purpose of provisions.
   A.   As an alternative to conventional zoning and development approaches and
processes, the Planned Area Development (P.A.D.) procedures and regulations are
set forth to enhance the city's development growth in order that the public
health, safety, and general welfare be preserved as Casa Grande increasingly
urbanizes; to encourage innovations in residential, commercial, and industrial
development so that greater opportunities for better housing, recreation,
shopping and employment, may extend to all citizens and residents of Casa
Grande; to reflect changes in the technology of land development; to encourage
a more creative approach in the utilization of land in order to accomplish a
more efficient, aesthetic, and desirable development which may be characterized
by special features of the geography, topography, size or shape of a particular
property, and to provide a compatible and stable developed environment, in
harmony with that of the surrounding area.
   B.   The P.A.D. may include any development having one or more principal use
or structure on a single parcel of ground or contiguous parcels. The P.A.D.
shall consist of a harmonious selection of uses and groupings of buildings,
parking areas, circulation and open spaces, and shall be designed as an
integrated unit, in such a manner as to constitute a safe, efficient and
convenient urban area development.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.13.1, 1987)
17.40.015 Design Standards for Planned Area Developments.
   That certain document known as "2021 Residential Design Standards for
Planned Area Developments" which was made a public record by Resolution No.
5342, as well as the "2022 Amendments to the 2021 Residential Design Standards
for Planned Area Developments" which was made a public record by Resolution No.
5422 of the City of Casa Grande, Arizona, three copies of each of which are on
file in the office of the City Clerk of the City of Casa Grande, Arizona, are
hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set forth in
this section.
(Ord. 1397.17.58 § 2, 2022; Ord. 1397.17.54 § 2, 2021; Ord. 1397.17.22.1 § 1;
Ord. 1397.17.22 § 3, 1999)
17.40.020 General requirements and standards.
   General requirements and standards for the P.A.D. zone shall be as follows:
   A.   Ownership. The tract shall be a development of land under unified
control at the time of application and planned and scheduled to be developed as
a whole.
   B.   Conformance With General Plan. The land uses and design of the proposed
P.A.D. shall be consistent with the city general plan.
   C.   P.A.D. Regulations.
   1.   The minimum total P.A.D. shall be no less than five acres unless the
applicant can show that the minimum P.A.D. requirements should be waived
because the waiver would be in the public interest and that one or more of the
following conditions exist:
   a.   Unusual physical features of the property itself or of the surrounding
area are such that development under the standard provisions of this title
would not be appropriate in order to conserve a physical or terrain feature of
importance to the neighborhood or community;
   b.   The property is adjacent to or across the street from property which
has been developed under the provisions of this section and will contribute to
the amenities of the area;
   c.   The use of the P.A.D. concept will encourage the use of otherwise
undevelopable property, particularly in the case of small undeveloped parcels
surrounded or partially surrounded by developed property.
   D.   Uses in a P.A.D.
   1.   Recreational vehicle parks, per
Chapter 17.48; and
   2.   Any use may be allowed in a P.A.D. provided it is consistent with the
general plan.
   3.   Medical marijuana uses shall not be allowed on any property zoned
P.A.D. unless either: a) the use is specifically allowed by the P.A.D. Guide
that governs said property; or b) the property is within a P.A.D. that
primarily allows I-1 and/or I-2 land uses. Medical marijuana dispensaries may
also be allowed within a P.A.D. that meets the requirements of Section
17.52.610.
   E.   Residential Density in P.A.D.s.
   1.   Residential development in a P.A.D. may provide for a variety of
housing types allowed in any one of the basic residential zoning districts. In
addition, the number of dwelling units allowed may be flexible relative to the
number of dwelling units per acre that would be permitted by the zoning
regulations otherwise applicable to the site. However, the total number of
dwelling units and the resulting density allowed in a P.A.D. shall be
consistent with the land use plan of the city's general plan;
   2.   In determining the reasonableness of the densities in a P.A.D., the
planning and zoning commission and city council shall consider increased
efficiency in the provision of public facilities and services based, in part,
upon:
   a.   The location, amount and proposed use of common open space,
   b.   The location, design and type of dwelling units,
   c.   The physical characteristics of the site,
   d.   Particular distinctiveness and excellence in siting, design, and
landscaping.
   F.   Front, Rear and Side Yard Building Setback Regulations. Building
setbacks from all property lines which form the perimeter of the P.A.D. shall
be no less than twenty feet, except as noted in the design standards adopted in
Section
17.40.015, above and subsections S, below.
   G.   More Than One Building Per Lot. More than one building may be placed on
one platted or recorded lot in any P.A.D. Areas for single-family detached
dwellings and other housing types providing privately owned lots must comply
with Title 16 of this code in all respects not specifically noted in this
section as appropriate variances or waivers.
   H.   One Housing Type Not Inconsistent With Intent. A P.A.D. which only
involves one housing type such as all detached or all attached units shall not
be considered inconsistent with the stated purposes and objectives of this
section and shall not be the sole basis for denial or approval.
   I.   Architecture. Building architecture shall not solely be a basis for
denial or approval of a plan, except as noted in the desing standards adopted
in Section
17.40.015, above and subsection S, below. The overall appearance, diversity,
sustainability, and compatibility of individual buildings to other site
elements and surrounding development will be primary considerations during
P.A.D. review by the Planning and Zoning Commission and Council. Locational
criteria shall be a primary consideration as related to Large Single Retail
Uses or Large Multiple Use Shopping Centers.
   J.   Phasing of Development.
   1.   Any P.A.D. plan proposed to be constructed in phases shall include full
details relating thereto, and the city council may approve or modify, where
necessary, any such proposals;
   2.   The phasing shall include the time for beginning and completion of each
phase. Such timing may be modified by the city on the showing of good cause by
the developer;
   3.   The land owner or developer shall make such easements, covenants, and
other arrangements and shall furnish such financial guarantees as may be
determined by the city to be reasonably required to assure performance in
accordance with the plan and to protect the public.
   K.   Street Utilities, Services and Public Facilities. The uniqueness of
each proposal for a P.A.D. may allow specifications and standards for streets,
utilities and services to be subject to minor modifications of the
specifications and standards established in this and other city ordinances
governing their construction. The city may, therefore, waive or modify the
specifications or standards where it is found that they are not required in the
interests of the residents of the P.A.D. or the city. The plans and profiles of
all streets, utilities and services shall be reviewed, modified if necessary,
and approved by the city prior to the final approval of the P.A.D. All P.A.D.s
shall be served by public or community water and sewer systems.
   L.   Open Space Provision. Depending upon the proposed land uses within
P.A.D., a minimum of seven to fifteen percent of the total P.A.D. shall be set
aside for open space. Open space allocation and design shall conform to the
design standards adopted in Section
17.40.015, above except Large Single Retail Uses or Large Multiple Use Shopping
Center, which shall be governed by subsection S, below.
   M.   Operating and Maintenance Requirements for Planned Area Development
Common Facilities. In the event that certain land areas or structures are
provided within the P.A.D. for private recreational use or as service
facilities, the owner of such land and buildings shall establish an arrangement
to assure the city of a continued standard of maintenance. These common areas
may be placed under the ownership of one of the following, depending which is
more appropriate:
   1.   Dedicated to public where a community-wide use would be anticipated;
   2.   Landlord control;
   3.   Landowners association, provided all of the following conditions are
met:
   a.   The landowners association must be established prior to any sale,
   b.   Membership must be mandatory for each owner and any successive buyer,
   c.   The open space restriction must be permanent or tied to a long-term
agreement (e.g. ninety-nine years),
   d.   The association must be responsible for liability insurance and the
maintenance of recreational, service, and other facilities as deemed necessary
by the city,
   e.   Landowners must pay their pro rata share of the cost and the assessment
levied by the association that can become a lien on the property in accordance
with Arizona Statutes,
   f.   The association must be required to adjust its assessment to meet
changing needs,
   g.   The association must be required to, at minimum, adjust its assessment
on an annual basis by a percentage not less than the previous year's increase
in the Consumer Price Index.
   N.   Building Height and Setbacks. In general, a building's setback from
property adjacent to the P.A.D. site shall approximate its height.
   O.   Landscaping. Landscaping and/or fencing shall be provided according to
a plan approved by the city and shall include a detailed planting list with
sizes indicated.
   P.   Utilities. All utilities, including electricity (except lines exceeding
thirteen KV capacity) and telephone, which are on the site of the development
property, including those on land which will be dedicated to public use as part
of the development, and those utilities lines which must be extended to provide
such utility services to the development property from an end point outside the
development property lines except those lines along arterial or collector
streets, shall be installed underground.
   Q.   Additional Standards. Development within a P.A.D. shall conform to all
conditions and standards agreed upon by the applicant and the city at the time
of P.A.D. approval.
   R.   Residential Design Standards for Planned Area Developments. Development
within a P.A.D. shall conform to the standards adopted in Section
17.40.015, above.
   S.   Locational Criteria and Development Standards for Large Single Retail
Use and Large Multiple Use Shopping Center.
   a.   Location Criteria: Large Single Retail Use and Large Multiple Use
Shopping Centers shall only be located on property zoned as Planned Area
Development for such use in accordance with
Chapter 17.40 of this Code. Any proposal to expand an existing retail use,
which subsequently brings the total building coverage thresholds over that
defined under Sections
17.12.771 and
17.12.772, shall also require conformance with all of the following standards,
for the entire site development. The City Council may approve departure from
these standards upon finding that such departure is warranted, based upon
consideration of mitigating circumstances, design innovation, or other
meritorious feature(s).
   i.   The building(s) or shopping center shall be located at the intersection
of two arterial roadways or have frontage on an arterial roadway and be
immediately adjacent to an Interstate highway. The City Council may also
consider arterial and collector roadway intersection locations on a case-by-
case basis; however, a comprehensive traffic impact analysis approved by the
City Engineer must show that the potential traffic impacts of the proposed site
development will be adequately mitigated before the City Council will consider
arterial and collector roadway intersection locations.
   ii.   A minimum distance of one hundred (100) feet, as measured on a
straight line, shall be required from the nearest property line of any parcel
currently developed, zoned or designated by the City’s General Plan for
residential use, to the exterior building wall of a Large Single Retail Use or
Large Multiple Use Shopping Center. The separation distance shall be increased
by a ratio of one foot for each additional one thousand (1,000) square feet of
building coverage area, whether within a single store or multiple stores, over
one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet.
   iii.   A minimum distance of five hundred (500) feet, as measured on a
straight line, shall be required from the nearest property line of any parcel
currently developed, zoned or designated by the City’s General Plan for a
private or public school use, to the exterior building wall of a Large Single
Retail Use or Large Multiple Use Shopping Centers center. The separation
distance shall be increased by a ratio of one foot for each additional one
thousand (1,000) square feet of building coverage area, whether within a single
store or multiple stores, over one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet. A
Large Single Retail Use building or Large Multiple Use Shopping Center shall
not be located across from or immediately adjacent to any parcel currently
developed, zoned or designated by the City’s General Plan for a private or
public school use.
   iv.   A Large Single Retail Use or Large Multiple Use Shopping Center may be
located within a mixed use Planned Area Development, but only when said use has
been expressly identified for such use as part of the Planned Area Development
zoning application and Planned Area Development Guide and is in accordance with
the requirements of
Chapter 17.40 of this Code. If such use has not been expressly identified as
part of an approved Planned Area Development, but is requested, a major change
amendment to the Planned Area Development is required in accordance with
Section
17.68.330 of this Code.
   b.   Site Development Standards: In addition to the site development and
landscaping standards found elsewhere in this Code, a Large Single Retail Use
building or Large Multiple Use Shopping Center shall also be subject to
conformance with the following additional standards. Council may approve
departure from these standards upon finding that such departure is warranted,
based upon consideration of mitigating circumstances, design innovation, or
other meritorious feature(s).
   i.   Major Site Plan review and approval by the Planning and Zoning
Commission is required.
   ii.   A thirty-foot wide landscape buffer is required along all frontages,
broken only by approved driveways. A sixty-foot wide landscape buffer shall be
provided along all property lines that abut any parcel currently developed,
zoned or designated by the City’s General Plan for residential use. With the
exception of increased setbacks required under Section
17.40.020 S of this Code, B-4 (Community Business) minimum building setbacks
and maximum building heights shall be used.
   iii.   Minimum tree sizes shall be twenty- four inch (24") box with a
minimum height of eight feet and minimum caliper size of one and one-half
inches at ground level. Palm trees shall have a minimum fifteen foot trunk
height measured from the base of the trunk to the base of the fronds. Minimum
shrub and accent plant sizes shall be five gallon. Minimum groundcover plant
size shall be one gallon. Berming and boulders shall be used to create a varied
and enhanced topography. Landscape plans shall be prepared by a registered
landscape architect.
   iv.   Landscaped walkways within the parking lots are required to reduce the
impacts of parking areas and increase pedestrian accessibility. Emphasis on
landscaping must be placed at the driveway entrances. Landscaped planters must
be located along the walkways in front of the building.
   v.   Decorative masonry screen walls, minimum three feet in height, are
required to screen all parking areas. Columns and horizontal staggers are
required to reduce the linear appearance.
   vi.   Loading docks and building service areas must be oriented away from
streets and residential areas to mitigate visual and noise impacts. Loading
docks and building service areas must be screened from public view with a
combination of landscaping and decorative masonry screen walls. Delivery and
loading operations shall not be conducted between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and
7:00 a.m. on any site that is adjacent to a residential zoning district, unless
adequate noise abatement and mitigation measures are taken.
   vii.   A Comprehensive Sign Plan shall be required as part of the PAD. Lower
profile detached signs and the consolidation of detached signs is required.
   viii.   An outdoor lighting plan is required. The plan must show that the
requirements of the City’s Light Control Ordinance are met and how the negative
impacts of outdoor lighting on adjacent residential properties or zones will be
mitigated. Low pressure sodium lighting shall be predominantly used when
buildings are adjacent to residential properties or zones.
   ix.   A Traffic Impact Analysis, prepared by a professional traffic engineer
and meeting the approval of the City Engineer, must be submitted. Traffic
impacts on public streets and recommended mitigation measures and plans must be
included in the analysis.
   x.   Primary entry drives shall be aligned with any point of access to an
arterial street that provides full turning movements, as approved by the City
Engineer. Said entry drives shall include a landscaped median to separate
entry/exiting movements.
   xi.   The site shall use elements that will enhance the pedestrian scale and
accessibility. Pedestrian plazas, including covered seating areas, shade trees,
bike racks, and trash receptacles, must be provided near the store. Sidewalks
in front of the stores must be at least ten feet wide. All other sidewalks on
the site shall be at least six feet wide.
   xii.   All outdoor sales must be conducted within areas specifically
designated and designed for such use. Products and services displayed outdoors
must be those that are customary, accessory, or incidental to those sold and
displayed in the primary business being conducted in the building. Outdoor
sales and displays must not interfere with pedestrian walkways, fire lanes,
vehicular circulation, parking areas, landscaping, or driveway visibility.
   xiii.    The building’s exterior building materials and colors used must add
to the building’s sustainability, durability, character, and aesthetic
appearance. Predominate exterior materials must include split-face masonry
block and stucco. Stone or other accentuating features shall be provided for
additional character. Tilt-up concrete panels and smooth-faced masonry block
are acceptable only when used with prominent quantities of split-face block and
stone materials. Prefabricated steel panels must not be used for exterior
building materials. Low reflective (50 percent or less) building colors must be
utilized on the main exterior walls.
   xiv.    Emphasis must be placed on providing well-defined highly visible
public entrances, covered walkways, and adding design elements that will
improve the scale of the building(s) and provide visual interest consistent
with the community’s identity, character, and scale. The architecture of the
building(s) shall demonstrate visual interest on all exterior sides through the
use of such techniques, without limitation, as wall plane changes, color and
material changes, pop-outs, reveal lines, scoring, varied roof lines and
slopes, recessed features, articulated customer entrances, canopies,
colonnades, and other elements, all of which effectively integrate the building
(s) mass with its surroundings, and bring proportion to its horizontal and
vertical dimensions.
   xv.   Roofs will be reviewed to ensure architectural variation and reduction
of scale. Parapets with three-dimensional cornice treatments or similar
architectural treatments, shall be used to conceal flat roofs and rooftop
equipment. Roofs and/or parapets must have at least two planes.
   xvi.    Steps must be taken to reduce the area dedicated for parking between
the front facade of the building(s) and the abutting street, while still
meeting City Code parking space requirements. Emphasis shall be made on
presenting the architecture of the buildings as part of the streetscape.
   xvii.   Any area used for shopping cart containment as may be provided
adjacent to the building(s) shall be fully enclosed and screened by a
decorative masonry wall. An adequate number of durable, permanent cart corrals
shall be provided within parking areas.
   xviii.   Portable storage containers shall be prohibited on the site of the
development. All storage shall be contained within the principal building(s),
unless additional screened storage areas are approved as part of the Planned
Area Development application.
   xix.   All vending machines shall be kept within the building(s), or if kept
outside, be completely screened from the view of parking areas, roadways, and
neighboring properties by a decorative masonry wall.
   xx.   Overnight parking of recreational vehicles anywhere within the site
development shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 1397.17.37 § 6, 2011: Ord. 1397.17.29 § 1 (part), 2001: Ord. 1397.17.22 §
4 (part), 1999: Ord. 1397.17.17 § 5, 1997: Ord. 1397.15.11 § 2, 1997; Ord. 1178
§ 5.13.2, 1987)
17.40.030 Property in floodplains to comply with certain requirements.
   Any property located in a P.A.D. Zone and any floodplain as designated in
Chapter 15.40, must comply with
Chapter 15.40 requirements.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.13.3, 1987)
Chapter 17.44
NEIGHBORHOOD CONSERVATION DISTRICT
Sections:
17.44.010   Purpose of provisions.
17.44.020   Process to initiate plan.
17.44.030   Preparation of plan—Requirements.
17.44.040   Process to establish.
17.44.010 Purpose of provisions.
   The NC District is intended as a means for property owners to initiate and
to implement programs for the conservation or revitalization of their
residential or commercial neighborhoods. The district takes affect through the
adoption of a precise plan and set of regulations, called the neighborhood
conservation plan, specifically intended, in each case, to facilitate
maintenance and upgrading of the neighborhood, to encourage development of
vacant or under-used lots, to minimize the adverse effects of incompatible
mixtures of uses, and to encourage residents and owners to take positive steps
for the improvement of their neighborhood area.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.14.1, 1987)
17.44.020 Process to initiate plan.
   A.   In General. In any NC District the regulations governing the uses of
land and structures, the height of buildings and requirements for lot area,
width and yards, shall be as set forth in the underlying zoning district except
as may be expressly modified by the neighborhood conservation plan for that
district. There will be a separate and specific neighborhood conservation plan
for each NC District.
   B.   Initiation of an NC District. A petition requesting establishment of
the district, bearing the signatures of the owners of not less than thirty
percent of the property within the area proposed to be included in the NC
District, may be submitted to the planning and zoning commission. The petition
shall set forth the preliminary boundaries of the area proposed to be included.
   C.   Public Hearing. Upon initiation of proceedings as set forth in
subsection B above, the planning and zoning commission shall call a public
hearing for the purpose of explaining the purposes and operation of an NC
District and to determine the degree of interest in the establishment of such
district, as well as to receive any suggestions regarding the content of the
neighborhood conservation plan or the boundaries of the NC District.
   D.   Planning and Zoning Commission Recommendation. Following the public
hearing, the planning and zoning commission may recommend to the city council
that the planning department, or the neighborhood under the auspices of the
planning department, proceed with the preparation of a neighborhood
conservation plan as set forth herein, and the planning and zoning commission
shall recommend to the city council the boundaries of the proposed district; or
it may recommend termination of the proceedings if it determines that the plan
will not serve the purposes for which the district is intended.
   E.   The city council may, without further hearing, concur in the
recommendation of the planning and zoning commission or make such
recommendations that they may desire and so instruct the planning department.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.14.3, 1987)
17.44.030 Preparation of plan—Requirements.
   When so instructed by the city council, the planning department, or the
neighborhood under the auspices of the planning department, shall prepare a
neighborhood conservation plan which shall consist of a detailed plan of land
uses and related regulations in a substantial conformity with the Casa Grande
general plan and any other prevailing, adopted plans. A neighborhood
conservation plan shall:
   A.   Indicate proposed changes, if any, to permitted land uses within the NC
District;
   B.   Contain a schedule of proposed changes, if any, to density, coverage,
height, and other requirements applicable to buildings or structures;
   C.   Contain specific regulations for the remodeling of existing buildings
and structures, application of performance standards and application of site
plan review procedures;
   D.   Contain proposals for social services, if any, to be furnished in the
area and plans for capital improvements, if any, by all public agencies and
utilities in the area.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.14.3, 1987)
17.44.040 Process to establish.
   Upon completion of the neighborhood conservation plan, the planning
department shall notify the planning and zoning commission which shall:
   A.   Set a date for a public hearing on the plan and establishment of the
district as provided for in Articles VIII. and IX. of
Chapter 17.68;
   B.   Reproduce, and make available, the plan in the proposed district at
least thirty days prior to the established public hearing date.
(Ord. 1178 § 5.14.4, 1987)
Chapter 17.48
PLANNED AREA DEVELOPMENT (P.A.D.)—RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) PARK OVERLAY ZONING
DISTRICT
Sections:
17.48.010   Purpose of provisions.
17.48.020   Recreational vehicle park overlay zoning district as a planned area
development.
17.48.030   Minimum area required to establish.
17.48.040   Principally permitted uses.
17.48.050   Permitted accessory uses.
17.48.060   Recreational vehicle park overlay zoning district development and
design regulations.
17.48.070   Considerations and guidelines in recreational vehicle park
development.
17.48.010 Purpose of provisions.
   The purpose of the recreational vehicle park overlay zoning district is to
accommodate recreational vehicle park development at higher residential
densities with sufficient open space provided for park users. The planned area
development—recreational vehicle park overlay zoning district is designed to
allow for an economical use of land while creating an attractive, functional
and safe environment that is compatible with surrounding properties. Ideal
locations will feature accessibility from an arterial street, available
utilities, and close proximity to services which will meet the needs of
anticipated users.
(Ord. 1397.17.17 § 6 (part), 1997)
17.48.020 Recreational vehicle park overlay zoning district as a planned area
development.
   Due to the residential/quasi-commercial nature of a recreational vehicle
park, all proposed recreational vehicle parks shall be processed and zoned as a
planned area development (P.A.D.), pursuant to
Chapter 17.40 (P.A.D. Zone),
Chapter 17.68, Article V (Procedures for P.A.D. approval), and the provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. 1397.17.17 § 6 (part), 1997)
17.48.030 Minimum area required to establish.
   No recreational vehicle park overlay zoning district may be established
unless the intended land area contains at least ten acres of land (gross).
(Ord. 1397.17.17 § 6 (part), 1997)
17.48.040 Principally permitted uses.
   Principally permitted uses in the recreational vehicle park overlay zoning
district are as follows
   A.   Recreational vehicles, including park models.
(Ord. 1397.17.17 § 6 (part), 1997)
17.48.050 Permitted accessory uses.
   A.   Management offices and living quarters;
   B.   Recreation facilities, such as swimming pools, activity buildings,
tennis courts and similar uses;
   C.   Service buildings, including bathing, laundry, storage and utility,
   D.   Security guard house(s) at the park entrance(s);
   E.   Retail and service uses intended primarily for park users;
   F.   Signs, as provided in Section
17.48.060(Q);
   G.   Recreational vehicle storage and storage buildings, but not the outdoor
storage of materials, household goods or appliances. Recreational vehicle
storage on any individual lot/space is limited to one, one hundred twenty
square foot building per lot/space.
(Ord. 1397.17.17 § 6 (part), 1997)
17.48.060 Recreational vehicle park overlay zoning district development and
design regulations.
   A.   Minimum Lot (Space) Area: The minimum area for a recreational vehicle
park lot (space) shall be one thousand five hundred square feet.
   B.   Setbacks: The setbacks within the recreational vehicle park overlay
zoning district are as follows:
   1.   Perimeter: All recreational vehicle and accessory buildings and uses
(except detached signs) shall be set back from the perimeter screening wall of
the recreational vehicle park a distance not less than ten feet.
   2.   Lot/Space Setbacks: All recreational vehicles (and any detached
individual storage building) shall maintain the following lot/space setbacks
(measurements are taken from the leading edge of any carport, patio cover,
awning or other extension):
      Front                  10'
      Side                  5'
      Rear                  5'
      Corner side               10'
      Perimeter screening wall         10'
      Distance between recreational vehicles   10'
NOTE: No detached individual storage buildings are allowed within the front or
corner side yard areas.
   3.   Distance Between Buildings and Recreational Vehicles: The minimum
distance between a recreational vehicle unit and any building (other than a
detached individual storage building) shall be ten feet. The minimum distance
between a recreational vehicle unit and an individual detached storage building
is five feet.
   C.   Height: The maximum height of any building shall be thirty feet.
However, if a structure is located at least two hundred feet from any property
line, it may be increased to forty-five feet.
   D.   Landscaping: All landscaping within a recreational vehicle park is to
conform with the city landscaping code (
Chapter 17.52, Article VI. Recreational vehicle parks shall be considered for
the purposes of landscaping as multiple-family residential use. In addition,
the plant quantities are as follows:
   1.   Lot/space: one tree and three shrubs are to be placed on each lot.
   2.   Frontage: two trees and five shrubs for each twenty feet of street
frontage area, and vegetative ground cover occupying a minimum of sixty percent
of the street frontage landscaped area. The street frontage area includes any
unused right-of-way, plus the twenty feet screening wall setback area.
   3.   Screening: All recreational vehicle parks that have a required
screening wall placed adjacent to any residential development shall install,
within the perimeter screening wall setback, one tree for every thirty linear
feet of wall.
   4.   Interior: In addition to individual lot landscaping, all areas not used
for parking, drive, lot or building are to be landscaped, with a plant ratio of
one tree and three shrubs for each two hundred fifty square feet of area. This
shall also apply to any interior retention or open space areas.
   E.   Open Space: A minimum of seven percent of the site, or an area equal to
one hundred fifty square feet per recreational vehicle lot/space, whichever is
greater, is to be provided as open space or recreation area within the park.
Parking, drive, building and lot setback areas shall not be considered as part
of the open space area. Open space shall be either private or public.
   F.   Screening: A six feet high, decorative screening wall is to be placed
around the perimeter of the recreational vehicle park, except at any driveway
or pedestrian access points. The screening wall is to be placed no closer than
twenty feet from any property line that runs adjacent or parallel to any
existing or planned public street, and is to be placed along the property line
that does not front or parallel any nonpublic street.
   G.   Parking: Parking within a recreational vehicle park is to be provided
with the following ratios:
   1.   On-lot (space): At least one parking space (on a dust-free surface) is
to be provided on each lot (space).
   2.   Guest: Paved parking (off any interior drives) is to be provided within
the recreational vehicle park at the ratio of one space for every five lots
(spaces).
   H.   Retention: All recreational vehicle parks are to comply with city
requirements for on-site retention. Developers of recreational vehicle parks
are encouraged to use the street frontage areas for retention.
   I.   Interior Drive Standards: All interior drives are to be private, are to
be paved to city standards, and have a minimum width of twenty-five feet and a
minimum turning radius of fifty feet. All cul-de-sacs shall provide for
adequate turnaround for emergency vehicles, and in no case shall a cul-de-sac
exceed six hundred feet in length.
   J.   Utilities: All utility lines, except electrical power lines greater
than thirteen KV capacity, shall be installed underground.
   K.   Access: All access to individual lots (spaces) shall be from the
interior of the park only.
   L.   Fire Hydrants: Locations and capacities of fire hydrants, mains and
other facilities shall be determined by the fire department.
   M.   Trash Enclosures: All trash enclosures are to meet city standards, and
are to be colored and treated to complement the development.
   N.   Hitches: All hitches on any fifth-wheel, travel trailer or similarly-
styled recreational vehicles shall be shrouded by a covered cloth, canvas or
similar material to screen, conceal and protect the hitch when such units are
located within the park.
   O.   Laundry: Outdoor laundry drying areas are prohibited.
   P.   Furniture: There shall be no exposed outdoor storage of furniture
(except lawn furniture), household goods, tools, equipment, or building
materials or supplies.
   Q.   Signage:
   1.   Detached signs shall be limited to one per public street frontage, and
shall be a low- profile, monument-style sign, no greater than eight feet in
height and thirty-two square feet in size. The supporting structure shall be
constructed and colored to complement the development. Signs mounted to the
required screening wall shall be considered detached signs, with the size limit
of thirty-two square feet.
   2.   Attached signs shall be allowed to be placed on interior buildings
(such as guard and office buildings) only, and are limited to a total of two
such signs per frontage, with no single attached sign exceeding twenty square
feet in size.
   3.   Address signs for each individual lot/ space is required, with one
address sign per lot/space and limited to one square foot in size per sign.
Said address sign is to be placed so as to be visible from the adjacent
interior drive and may be internally illuminated.
   4.   Directional and similar type signs shall conform to the city's sign
code.
   R.   Mobile Homes: Placement of mobile or manufactured homes on recreational
vehicle lots (spaces) is prohibited.
   S.   Maintenance: Provisions for the private maintenance of recreational
vehicles, recreational vehicle lots (spaces), buildings, screening walls,
interior streets, signage and any common/open space areas to be provided.
   T.   Miscellaneous: Development of a recreational vehicle park shall conform
to all applicable city requirements for grading, drainage, retention, outdoor
lighting, and the installation of street-lights and street signs (where deemed
necessary).
(Ord. 1397.17.17 § 6 (part), 1997)
17.48.070 Considerations and guidelines in recreational vehicle park
development.
   The following is a list of general guidelines and other criteria which both
the applicant and the city should consider in developing and approving a
recreational vehicle park overlay zoning district. Additional detail is listed
under Policy 1.1.11 of the city of Casa Grande General Plan Update:
   A.   Impacts on the city's infrastructure and services (sewer, police and
fire, etc.);
   B.   Ratio of recreational vehicles to conventional dwellings throughout the
city;
   C.   Economic impacts;
   D.   Environmental, aesthetic and view-shed considerations in site design;
   E.   Traffic impacts, interior circulation;
   F.   Drainage and retention;
   G.   Building aesthetics and arrangement;
   H.   Layout of the park in consideration of emergency and service
accessibility;
   I.   Screening of mechanical and utility equipment;
   J.   Creation, maintenance, or interruption of neighborhood patterns;
   K.   Impact on neighboring development patterns;
   L.   Impact and relationship to pedestrian and bicycle routes;
   M.   Safety and security;
   N.   Developer responsibilities;
   O.   Arrangement of open space;
   P.   Entry features;
   Q.   Buffers to adjacent developments necessitated by layout, traffic or
arrangement of buildings or recreational facilities;
   R.   Lighting;
   S.   Handicapped accessibility;
   T.   Signage;
   U.   Development agreements.
(Ord. 1397.17.17 § 6 (part), 1997)
Chapter 17.52
GENERAL BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Sections:
17.52.010   Purpose of provisions.
Article I. Use of Lands, Buildings and Structures
17.52.020   Conformity with certain use designations required.
17.52.030   Conformity with height limitations required.
17.52.040   Conformity with yard and setback regulations required.
17.52.050   Single yard not to fulfill requirement for multiple sites.
17.52.060   Recreational vehicle, park home and manufactured home restrictions.
17.52.070   Dwelling unit restrictions.
17.52.075    Manufactured dwellings in R-1 zoning district.
Article II. Accessory Buildings, Uses and Equipment
17.52.080   General considerations—Restrictions.
17.52.090   Covered patios and walkways.
17.52.100   Detached accessory structures, uses and equipment.
17.52.105   Accessory dwelling units.
17.52.110   Swimming pools.
17.52.120   Miscellaneous structures.
Article III. Fences and walls
17.52.130   Permit required.
17.52.140   Location requirements.
17.52.150   Construction, maintenance and height requirements.
17.52.160   Residential fences.
17.52.170   Business and industrial district fences.
17.52.180   Special purpose fences.
17.52.190   Fences in all districts.
17.52.200   Outdoor storage areas.
Article III. Signs
17.52.210   Signs to comply with provisions.
Article IV. Setback and Height Encroachments, Limitations and Exceptions
17.52.220   Require ments in any yards.
17.52.230   Requirements in side and rear yards.
17.52.240   Reserved
17.52.250   Height requirements.
17.52.260   Side and rear setbacks—Zero lot line provision.
Article V. Screening
17.52.270   Requirements.
Article VI. Landscaping Requirements
17.52.280   Purpose and intent.
17.52.290   Definitions.
17.52.300   Scope.
17.52.310   Compliance.
17.52.320   Variances.
17.52.330   Enforcement and notice of violations.
17.52.340   Penalties.
17.52.350   Landscape inspections.
17.52.360   Required landscaped maintenance.
17.52.370   Landscape plan.
17.52.380   Preliminary landscape plan.
17.52.390   Final landscape plan.
17.52.400   Installation of landscape improvements prerequisite to certificate
of occupancy; bond to secure installation.
17.52.410   Low water use plants, minimum size of trees, shrubs, etc. and
substitution of cover for shrubs.
17.52.420   Natural topping of landscaped areas.
17.52.430   Landscaped areas along street frontage.
17.52.440   Irrigation standards.
17.52.450   Obstructions to visibility.
17.52.460   Protection of landscaped areas from vehicular damage.
17.52.470   Use of landscaped areas from other vehicular damage.
17.52.480   On-site landscaped areas.
17.52.490   Street right-of-way landscaping.
17.52.500   Parking area landscaping.
17.52.510   Street frontages.
17.52.520   Multiple-family residential developments.
17.52.530   Industrial developments.
17.52.540   Commercial and other developments.
17.52.550   Street frontage landscaping.
17.52.560   Cumulative totals.
Article VII. Marijuana Uses
17.52.570   Application to this article.
17.52.580   Days and hours of operation.
17.52.590   Development standards.
17.52.600   Distance requirements.
17.52.610   Marijuana Dispensary Overlay Zone.
17.52.010 Purpose of provisions.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish general development standards.
These standards are intended and designed to assure compatibility of uses; to
prevent urban blight, deterioration and decay; and to enhance the health,
safety and general welfare of the residents of the community.
(Ord. 1178 § 6.1, 1987)
Article I. Use of Lands, Buildings and Structures
17.52.020 Conformity with certain use designations required.
   No building or structure or part thereof shall be erected, altered, or
enlarged for a use, nor shall any existing building, structure or part thereof,
or land, be used for a purpose or in a manner that is not in conformity with
the uses listed as permitted uses for the zone in which such buildings,
structure, or land is situated subject to the provisions of Chapters
17.20 through
17.48 of this title, except that any land, building or structure may be erected
or used for a purpose listed as a conditional use in such zone provided that a
conditional use permit therefore is secured in accordance with the provisions
of Article II. of
Chapter 17.68.
(Ord. 1178 § 6.2.1, 1987)
17.52.030 Conformity with height limitations required.
   No building, or part thereof, or structure shall be erected, reconstructed,
or structurally altered to exceed in height the limit herein designated for the
district in which such building is located, except as is specified in
Chapter 17.54 of this code.
(Ord. 1397.16.2 §§ 1 (part), 2 (part), 1994)
17.52.040 Conformity with yard and setback regulations required.
   No building or part thereof, or structure shall be erected, nor shall any
existing building be altered, enlarged, or rebuilt or moved into any zone, nor
shall any open space be encroached upon or reduced in any manner, except in
conformity to the yard and setback regulations designed for the zone in which
such building or open space is located, except as specified in
Chapter 17.54 of this code.
(Ord. 1397.16.2 §§ 1 (part), 2 (part), 1994)
17.52.050 Single yard not to fulfill requirement for multiple sites.
   No yard provided around any building for the purpose of complying with
provisions of this title shall be considered providing a yard for any other
building, and no yard for one building site shall be considered as providing a
yard for a building on any other building site.
(Ord. 1178 § 6.2.4, 1987)
17.52.060 Recreational vehicle, park home and manufactured home restrictions.
   No person shall park or occupy any recreational vehicle, park model or
manufactured dwelling on the premises of any occupied dwelling or on any lot
other than within an approved manufactured home park, manufactured home
subdivision, R-4 zoned property, recreational vehicle park, or a lot that has
been conditionally approved pursuant to Section
17.52.075, except that one unoccupied recreational vehicle may be parked in an
accessory private garage, or in a side or rear yard of a property in any zone
district. No living quarters shall be maintained, or any business practiced in
the recreational vehicle while such recreational vehicle is so parked or
stored, except that, in the event of hardship, temporary use permits may be
granted for occupying such recreational vehicle under procedures established in
Article IV of
Chapter 17.68.
(Ord. 1397.17.62 § 1 (part), 2024; Ord. 1178 § 6.2.5, 1987)
17.52.070 Dwelling unit restrictions.
   No cellar, garage, tent, basement with unfinished structure above, or
accessory building other than an approved accessory dwelling unit meeting the
requirements of
17.52.105, shall at any time be used as a dwelling unit. (Ord. 1397.17.62 § 1
(part), 2024; Ord. 1178 § 6.3, 1987)
17.52.075 Manufactured dwellings in R-1 zoning district.
   A.   Manufactured dwellings are conditionally permitted in the R-1 zoning
districts located within the following boundaries:
   1.   North of McMurray Boulevard, south of Cottonwood Lane, east of the
Schultz Road alignment, and west of Pinal Avenue; and
   2.   North of Doan Street, south of Florence Boulevard, east of Trekell
Road, and west of Pueblo Drive.
   B.   Manufactured dwellings within the R-1 zone district are subject to the
following design standards:
   1.   Must be set on a foundation which complies with the International
Residential Code as adopted by the City and codified in Casa Grande Municipal
Code Section
15.06.010, as may be amended from time to time.
   2.   Materials such as wood, hardboard, brick veneer, fiber cement siding,
stucco, or horizontal vinyl siding shall be used as a predominant exterior
material.
   3.   The exposed roof pitch shall be at a minimum of 3/12 and must be
covered with shingles, tile, or metal.
   4.   A minimum 50-square-foot recessed entry or covered porch shall be
provided along the front entry of the building.
   5.   Permanent access to the porch or recessed entry should be constructed
with materials and colors compatible with the dwelling unit. (Ord. 1397.17.62 §
1 (part), 2024)
Article II. Accessory Buildings, Uses and Equipment
17.52.080 General considerations—Restrictions.
   A.   An accessory building shall be considered an integral part of the
principal building if it is connected to the principal building by a roof,
except as provided in Section
17.52.090.
   B.   Accessory buildings, uses, or equipment shall not be stored or
constructed between the front lot line and front building setback line except
as allowed in Section
17.52.120.
   C.   Accessory buildings and garages in residential districts shall not
exceed the height of the principal structure, except that accessory buildings
and garages which exceed the aforesaid maximum may be allowed with a
conditional use permit within the Rural Ranch, Suburban Homestead, and Urban
Ranch zoning districts, and shall not be located within a utility easement.
   D.   No accessory building or garage for single-family homes shall occupy
more than twenty-five percent of a rear yard nor exceed six hundred seventy-
five square feet of floor area, except that an accessory building or garage
over six hundred seventy-five square feet of floor area may be allowed with a
conditional use permit.
   E.   No permit shall be issued for the construction of more than one
accessory, detached, private garage structure for each dwelling.
   F.   No accessory building or use shall be constructed or developed on a lot
prior to the time of construction of the principal building to which it is
accessory, except by a conditional use permit.
   G.   Accessory buildings in any business or industrial district may be
located only to the rear of the principal building.
   H.   No accessory building in any business or industrial district shall
exceed the height of the principal building except by conditional use permit.
(Ord. 1397.17.36 §§ 14 and 15, 2009; Ord. 1178 §§ 6.4.1 through 6.4.8, 1987)
17.52.090 Covered patios and walkways.
   Covered patios, or roofs attached to the main building or connecting the
main building with a detached accessory building, may extend into a required
rear or side yard; provided that portions of such structures extending into
that yard:
   A.   Shall not exceed twelve feet in height or project closer than five feet
to a side or rear lot line;
   B.   Shall be entirely open on at least three sides except for necessary
supporting columns; except that a roof connecting a main building and an
accessory building shall be open on two sides. Such covered patio or covered
walkway shall be a maximum width equal to ten percent of the connecting side of
the accessory building. In cases where a connecting wall is less than forty
feet wide, however, a building permit applicant shall be allowed a maximum
covered patio (or covered walkway) width of four feet.
(Ord. 1178 § 6.4.9, 1987)
17.52.100 Detached accessory structures, uses and equipment.
   Detached accessory structures, uses and equipment in residential zone
districts shall be subject to the following development standards:
   A.   Accessory structures, uses and equipment shall comply with the front
and corner side yard setback required for the principal structure.
   B.   Accessory structures, uses and equipment, no greater than six feet in
height, and which are screened from public view by an opaque wall or fence,
shall have a zero setback from the rear and side property lines.
   C.   Accessory structures, uses and equipment, greater than six but no
greater than twelve feet in height, shall have a three-foot setback from the
rear or side property lines. Except that, in the case where the rear or side
property line is adjacent to a dedicated public alley, the setback may be
reduced to zero.
   D.   Accessory structures, uses and equipment greater than twelve feet in
height, shall comply with the rear and side yard setbacks required for the
principal structure.
   E.   All setbacks for accessory structures, uses and equipment shall be
measured from the nearest point of use, equipment or exterior wall of the
structure to the property line.
   F.   Projections beyond the exterior wall, such as eves, overhangs,
cornices, and similar architectural features, may encroach into the required
setbacks by up to eighteen inches, but in no case shall extend beyond the
property line.
   G.   The total building footprint area of all accessory structures located
in the required rear yard shall be limited to no more than twenty-five percent
of the area.
(Ord. 1397.17.39 § 1, 2012; Ord. 1178 § 6.4.10, 1987)
17.52.105 Accessory dwelling units.
   One ADU shall be allowed as a permitted use within UR, RR, SH, R-1, R-1A, R-
2, R-4, and Residential PAD zone districts with the following development
standards:
   A.   The gross floor area of an ADU is limited to 75% of the gross floor
area of the single-family dwelling or 1,000 sq ft, whichever is less.
   B.   Setbacks:
   1.   Shall not be located within a required front or corner side yard
setback
   2.   Side yard setback – 5’ or the side yard setback in the zoning district,
whichever is less
   3.   Rear yard setback – 5’
   4.   Projections beyond the exterior wall, such as eves, overhangs,
cornices, and similar architectural features, may encroach into the required
setbacks by up to eighteen inches.
   C.   Building height: subject to the single-family residential zone district
standard in which the ADU is located.
   D.   The total building footprint area of all accessory structures,
including an ADU, located in the required rear yard setback of the primary
structure shall be limited to no more than twenty-five percent of the required
rear yard setback of the primary structure.
   E.   An accessory dwelling unit may not be built on top of a current or
planned public utility easement unless the property owner receives written
consent from any utility that is currently using the public utility easement or
that may use the public utility easement in the future. (Ord. 1397.17.61 § 1
(part), 2024)
17.52.110 Swimming pools.
   All private and semi-private swimming pools shall meet the following
standards:
   A.   The pool and all structures housing appurtenances thereto shall be not
less than five feet from the nearest property line except, however, that such
pool or structure shall not be located between the front property line and the
front building setback line;
   B.   All swimming pools shall be enclosed by a solid wall or fence, or chain
link fence, or wrought iron fence having vertical bars of at least one-half
inch cross-section spaced no further apart than four inches between bars. Such
walls or fence shall be five feet in height; shall be constructed so as to make
the swimming pool inaccessible to small children; shall not have more than four
inches between the bottom of the wall or fence and the underlying ground; and
all gates shall be self-closing, and shall have self-latching latches which
shall be not less than four and one-half feet above the ground, or are
otherwise inaccessible from the outside to small children;
   C.   The pool or mechanical equipment shall be located so as to minimize the
noise and lessen the nuisance to nearby occupants of apartments and houses;
   D.   All swimming pool plans and safety devices proposed to be built or
erected in conjunction with swimming pools shall be first presented to the
planning department for approval.
(Ord. 1397.17.13 § 2, 1995; Ord. 1178 § 6.4.11, 1987)
17.52.120 Miscellaneous structures.
   Porches, steps, architectural features such as eaves, awnings, and chimneys,
and balconies or stairways, wing walls or bay windows, may not project within
three feet of the property line.
(Ord. 1178 § 6.4.12, 1987)
Article III. Fences and Walls
17.52.130 Permit required.
   No persons, firm or corporation, except on a farm and related to farming,
shall hereafter construct, or cause to be constructed or erected within the
city any fence without first making an application for and securing a building
permit.
(Ord. 1178 § 6.5.1, 1987)
17.52.140 Location requirements.
   All fences shall be located entirely upon the private property of the
persons, firms or corporation constructing, or causing the construction, of
such fence unless the owner  of the property adjoining agrees, in writing, that
such fence may be erected on the division line of the respective properties.
(Ord. 1178 § 6.5.2, 1987)
17.52.150 Construction, maintenance and height requirements.
   A.   Construction and Maintenance.
   1.   Every fence shall be constructed in a substantial, workmanlike manner
and of substantial material reasonably suited for the purpose for which the
fence is proposed to be used. Every fence shall be maintained in a condition of
reasonable repair and shall not be allowed to become and remain in a condition
of disrepair, damage, or unsightliness, or constitute a nuisance, public or
private. Any such fence which is, or has become, dangerous to the public
safety, health or welfare, or has become unsightly through improper maintenance
or neglect is a public nuisance and the zoning administrator shall commence
proper proceedings for the abatement thereof.
   2.   Link or wire fences, wherever permitted, shall be constructed in such a
manner that no barbed ends shall be at the top, except in industrial districts
and shall be constructed of at least 11 gauge wire or its comparable.
   3.   Electrical or barbed wire fences shall be prohibited, except in B-4, I-
1 or I-2 districts.
   B.   Measuring Fence Height. The height of any fence shall be calculated to
the uppermost points as follows:
   1.   In required yards abutting a street, the height of the fence shall be
the total effective height measured from the finished grade on the side nearest
the street;
   2.   In other required yards, the height of the fence shall be the total
effective height above the finished grade measured on the side nearest the
abutting property;
   3.   On property lines, the height may be measured from the finished grade
of either side when the abutting property owners are in joint agreements, with
the agreement submitted in writing.
(Ord. 1178 § 6.5.3, 1987)
17.52.160 Residential fences.
   In all parts of the city zoned residential, no fence or wall shall be
erected or maintained more than six feet in height and also:
   A.   No fence or wall shall be allowed in any required residential front
yard which has any supporting member measuring more than thirty-six inches in
height;
   B.   Fences, walls, or hedges which are erected in any side yard and which
run parallel or approximately parallel to the front line of a building or
mobile home shall be set back from the front line of the building or mobile
home a minimum of five feet;
   C.   On corner lots in all districts, no fence or planting in excess of
thirty inches above the street center line grade shall be permitted within a
triangular area defined as follows: beginning at the intersection of the
projected curbing lines of two intersecting streets, thence forty feet along
one curb line, thence diagonally to a point forty feet from the point of
beginning on the other curb lines, then to the point of beginning, and at the
intersection of each driveway or alley with a street, a triangular area where
corners are defined by two points on the right-of-way line, fifteen feet on
each side of the centerline of the driveway or alley and a point on the
centerline ten feet outside right-of-way;
   D.   In those instances where a fence is erected as an enclosure which
restricts access from the front to the rear yard, a gate, identifiable
collapsible section of fence, or other such means of recognizable ingress shall
be installed, shall remain unobstructed and shall be a minimum of three feet in
width. The location of such ingress points shall be positioned at any point
paralleling the front lot line between the side lot property line and the
principal structure;
   E.   In corner side yards, fences up to six feet in height may be permitted;
provided, that no fence may be built in a corner side yard that is adjacent to
a neighboring front yard.
(Ord. 1178 § 6.5.4, 1987)
17.52.170 Business and industrial district fences.
   Fences in all business and industrial districts shall not exceed ten feet in
height except that boundary-line fences abutting residential districts shall
not be greater than six feet in height. No fence or planting in excess of
thirty inches above the street centerline grade shall be permitted within a
triangular area defined as follows: beginning at the intersection of the
projected curbing lines of two intersecting streets, thence forty feet along
one curb line, thence diagonally to a point forty feet from the point of
beginning on the other curb lines, then to the point of beginning, and at the
intersection of each driveway or alley with a street, a triangular area where
corners are defined by two points on the right-of-way line, fifteen feet on
each side of the centerline of the driveway or alley and a point on the
centerline ten feet outside right-of-way.
(Ord. 1178 § 6.5.5, 1987)
17.52.180 Special purpose fences.
   Fences for special purposes and fences differing in construction, height or
length may be permitted in any district by issuance of conditional use permit
approved by the planning and zoning commission. Findings shall be made that the
fence is necessary to protect, buffer or improve the premises for which the
premises for which the fence is intended and will not detrimentally effect
adjacent property.
(Ord. 1178 § 6.5.6, 1987)
17.52.190 Fences in all districts.
   Any fence constructed so as to have only one elevation “finished,” which
shall be defined as not having its supporting members significantly visible,
shall be erected such that the finished elevation of the fence is exposed to
the adjacent property.
(Ord. 1178 § 6.5.7, 1987)
17.52.200 Outdoor storage areas.
   A.   All utility substations, wells, storage facilities, or other utilities
shall be screened from view by a wall or landscape screen.
   B.   All storage for commercial operations shall be conducted within a
completely enclosed building or within an area completely enclosed, except for
access points, by a wall at least six feet in height.
(Ord. 1178 § 6.5.8, 1987)
Article III. Signs
17.52.210 Signs to comply with provisions.
   Signs, where permitted by this title, shall be designed, constructed,
reconstructed, repaired, removed, located and displayed as specified in
Ordinance 583 of the city of Casa Grande, adopted April 19, 1976 as the sign
code of the city and on file in theoffice of the city clerk.
(Ord. 1178 § 6.6, 1987)
Article IV. Setback and Height Encroachments, Limitations and Exceptions
17.52.220 Requirements in any yards.
   Requirements in any yards shall apply to:
   A.   Posts, off-street;
   B.   Open parking spaces;
   C.   Sills;
   D.   Pilasters;
   E.   Lintels;
   F.   Cornices;
   G.   Eaves;
   H.   Gutters;
   I.   Awnings;
   J.   Open terraces;
   K.   Service-station pump islands;
   L.   Open canopies;
   M.   Steps;
   N.   Flag poles;
   O.   Ornamental features;
   P.   Open Fire Escapes;
   Q.   Sidewalks; and
   R.   Fences, except as hereinafter amended;
   S.   Also, terraces, steps, exposed ramps (wheelchair), uncovered porches,
stoops or similar features; provided, they do not extend above the height of
the ground-floor level of the principal structure or to a distance of less than
three feet from any lot line nor less than one foot from any existing or
proposed access drive. Also, yard lights and nameplate signs in residential
districts; trees; shrubs; plants; floodlights or other sources of light-
illumination, authorized lights or light standards for illuminating parking
areas, loading areas or yards for safety and security reasons; provided, the
direct source of light is not visible from the public right-of-way or adjacent,
residential property.
(Ord. 1178 § 6.7.1, 1987)
17.52.230 Requirements in side and rear yards.
   A.   Balconies eight feet above grade may extend into the yards to within
five feet of a lot line; provided, the balconies do not extend over
nonresidential driveways.
   B.   Recreational equipment, picnic tables and apparatus needed for the
operation of active and passive solar-energy systems.
(Ord. 1178 § 6.7.2, 1987)
17.52.240 Reserved
17.52.250 Height requirements.
   A.   Height limitations shall not apply to:
   1.   Church spires, belfries, cupolas and domes;
   2.   Monuments;
   3.   Chimneys and smokestacks;
   4.   Reserved;
   5.   Parapet walls extending no more than four feet above the limiting
height of the building except as hereinafter provided; and
   6.   Solar-energy collectors and equipment used for the mounting or
operation of such collectors.
   B.   Places of public assembly in churches, schools and other permitted
public and semi-public buildings may exceed height limitations otherwise
established by this title; provided, that these are located on the ground floor
of such buildings and provided that for each one foot by which the height of
such buildings exceed the maximum height otherwise permitted in the zone, its
side and rear yards shall be increased in width or depth by an additional foot
over the side and rear yards required for the highest building otherwise
permitted in the zone.
   C.   Elevator and stair penthouses, water tanks, monitors and scenery lofts
are exempt from height limitations otherwise established in this title;
provided, that no linear dimension of any such structure exceed fifty percent
of the corresponding street frontage line.
   D.   Towers and monuments, cooling towers, gas holders or other structures,
where the manufacturing process requires a greater height and grain elevators
and silos are exempt from this title; provided, that any structure above the
height otherwise permitted in the zone shall occupy no more than twenty-five
percent of the area of the lot and shall be at least twenty-five feet from
every lot line.
(Ord. 1397.17.52 § 1, 2021; Ord. 1397.17.14 § VIII, 1996; Ord. 1178 § 6.7.4,
1987)
17.52.260 Side and rear setbacks—Zero lot line provision.
   Subject to the regulations contained in the Uniform Building Code and other
applicable regulations, buildings may be excluded from side and rear setback
requirements provided party walls are used and if the adjacent buildings are
constructed as an integral unit. This primarily pertains to townhomes and
condominium structures.
(Ord. 1178 § 6.7.5, 1987)
Article V. Screening
17.52.270 Requirements.
   All multi-family and mobile home developments' principal and accessory uses
(except signs) which are situated on a parcel which abuts a single-family
residential zone and all business and industrial developments' principal and
accessory uses (except signs) which are situated on a parcel which abuts a
residential zone shall be screened from such a zone by an approved wall or
fence not less than six feet in height above the level of the adjacent property
at the zone boundary. Walls or fences of lesser heights or planting screens may
be permitted by the city if there is a finding that nature or extent of the use
being screened is such that a lesser degree of screening will adequately
promote the use and enjoyment of the properties within the adjacent residential
zone, or there is a finding that a screening of the type required by this title
would interfere with the provision of adequate amounts of light and air to same
properties. All required screening devices shall be designed so that they are
architecturally harmonious with the principal structures on the site and they
shall be properly maintained so as not to become unsightly, hazardous or less
opaque than when originally constructed.
(Ord. 1178 § 6.8, 1987)
Article VI. Landscaping Requirements
17.52.280 Purpose and intent.
   The purpose of this section is to provide standards and requirements for the
installation of landscaping and screening walls for all new and expanded
development within the city in order to promote the general welfare of the
community; to effectuate attractive and logical development; to aid in the
enhancement of property values; to create an attractive appearance along city
streets; to complement the visual effect of buildings; to provide appropriate
buffers between incompatible land uses and protection from intense activities;
and to aid in conserving water by encouraging the use of varieties of plants,
trees and shrubs indigenous to arid regions which are characterized by low-
water consumption. The standards and regulations of this section shall be held
to be the minimum requirements necessary for the promotion of the foregoing
objectives of this section. In those instances where the minimum standards and
requirements am not sufficient to achieve the purpose and objectives of the
section the director may impose such other reasonable requirements as may be
deemed appropriate.
(Ord. 1397.17.1 (pan), 1991; Res. 1976 § 2 (part), 1991)
17.52.290 Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   A.   “Director” means the planning director or his designated
representative.
   B.   “Landscape materials” means any materials used for the purpose of
landscape improvement which may include, but shall not be limited to, the
following: trees, shrubs, groundcovers, tufts, vines, walkways, berms, stone
groundcover materials, sculptures, foundations, irrigation equipment, street
furniture, outdoor lighting, fences and walls.
   C.   “Landscape plan” means a graphic representation of the development site
indicating the location of all existing and proposed landscape improvements to
be present on the site at the completion of the construction of the project.
Such landscaping plan shall consist of preliminary and final plans as set forth
herein.
   D.   “Landscaping” means an exterior improvement of property in accordance
with an approved landscape plan and utilizing approved landscape materials.
   E.   “Screening wall” means a solid wall designed and constructed so as to
conceal areas used for refuse, mechanical equipment, parking, and service and
loading bays from street and public view, and to separate potential
incompatible land uses.
(Ord. 1397.17.1 (part), 1991; Res. 1976 § 2 (part), 1991)
17.52.300 Scope.
   The provisions of this section shall apply to all development or
construction, all building remodeling, alterations, additions, or expansions,
and to all changes of occupancy in the use or development of land which
requires the approval of a major site plan or subdivision plat by the city.
Agricultural uses and single-family and two-family residences and their
accessories shall be exempt from the requirements of this section.
(Ord. 1397.17.1 (part), 1991; Res. 1976 § 2 (part), 1991)
17.52.310 Compliance.
   For all development projects included in Section
17.52.300 preliminary and final landscape plans shall be prepared in accordance
with the standards and requirements set forth in this section, and shall be
sub-mired and approved in accordance with the procedures set forth in this
section.
(Ord. 1397.17.1 (part), 1991; Res. 1976 § 2 (part), 1991)
17.52.320 Variances.
Where there exists extraordinary conditions of topography, land ownership, site
boundaries and dimensions, adjacent development characteristics or other
circumstances not provided for in this section, the planning and zoning
commission may modify or vary the strict provisions of this section in such a
manner and to such an extent as is deemed appropriate to the public interest,
provided that the purpose and intent of this section is maintained with such
modification or variance. Applicants must request a variance in writing stating
the reasons why the variance is necessary. This request shall be considered as
part of the major site plan or subdivision review.
(Ord. 1397.17.1 (part), 1991; Res. 1976 § 2 (part), 1991)
17.52.330 Enforcement and notice of violations.
   This section shall be enforced by the director or his duly authorized
representative. The director shall have the authority to enter upon the
premises, or any part thereof, at any and all reasonable times, for the
purposes of performing his official duties. It is unlawful to refuse the
director entry upon such premises. When any condition which would constitute a
violation of the provisions of this section comes to the director's attention,
he shall cause a written notice thereof to be served upon the owner, lessee or
other person in control of the premises. The notice shall specify the nature of
the violation and shall order the responsible party to correct the violation
within thirty days of the date of the notice.
(Ord. 1397.17.1 (part), 1991; Res. 1976 § 2 (part), 1991)
17.52.340 Penalties.
   Any person in control of any premises who fails to correct a violation of
this section within thirty days after notice thereof by the director shall be
liable to the city pursuant to
Chapter 17.72 of this code.
(Ord. 1397.17.1 (part), 1991; Res. 1976 § 2 (part), 1991)
17.52.350 Landscape inspections.
   A.   All projects required by this section to be landscaped shall pass a
landscape inspection prior to a certificate of occupancy being issued by the
city. Such inspection shall be requested by the applicant at least twenty-four
hours prior to being performed.
   B.   The city shall have the right to refuse to pass any project not meeting
the provisions of this section. The city shall also have the right to reject
landscape materials as being substandard as to size, condition or appearance
including a pre-inspection of materials at the supplier if deemed necessary.
(Ord. 1397.17.1 (part), 1991; Res. 1976 § 2 (part), 1991)
17.52.360 Required landscape maintenance.
   A.   With respect to every lot, parcel, or tract of land within the city
containing a use for which the provisions of this section apply, every owner,
lessee, or any other person having the lawful right to possession and control
of such premise shall:
   1.   Maintain all landscape materials and landscaped areas in accordance
with the approved landscape plan, including the street right-of-way landscaping
required in Section
17.52.490. Such landscaped areas shall be kept free of trash, debris, weeds,
and dead plant material, and shall in all respects be maintained in a neat and
clean fashion.
   2.   Replace all dead or removed plants with healthy plants of the same
variety and in the size and quality as those removed, up to the fifteen gallon
size.
   B.   The city shall accept responsibility for the maintenance and operation
of all landscaping and appurtenances installed in accordance with the
provisions of Section
17.52.550 for any landscaping and appurtenances installed within street rights-
of-way, which rights-of-way are described by one of the following categories:
   1.   Arterial and/or collector street rights-of-way adjacent to single-
family residential areas that back onto the arterial and/or collector street,
and have a screening wall constructed on the rear property line;
   2.   Arterial and/or collector street rights-of-way adjacent to single
family residential areas that side onto the arterial and/or collector street,
and which have a screening wall constructed on the side property line;
   3.   Designated and approved bridle trails, bicycle paths and multi-use
recreational facilities within city limits;
   4.   Median islands on arterial and collector public streets within the
city;
   5.   Street rights-of-way abutting municipal public facilities;
   6.   Street landscaping within districts specifically approved or created by
city council;
   7.   Flood control facilities which have been accepted for operation and
maintenance by the city.
   C.   Prior to the city accepting for maintenance any landscaping described
in subsection B of this section, the following conditions shall have been
satisfied:
   1.   The landscaping shall be inspected and approved by the city for
compliance with the approved landscape plan;
   2.   The subsequent completion of a sixty-day maintenance period wherein the
developer shall be responsible for all watering, weeding, and replacement of
all dead or dying plant materials.
   3.   A final inspection called by the developer or his representative at the
completion of the sixty-day maintenance period resulting in final approval and
acceptance by the city.
(Ord. 1397.17.1 (part), 1991; Res. 1976 § 2 (part), 1991)
17.52.370 Landscape plan.
   A.   A landscape plan consisting of a preliminary plan and a final plan
shall be prepared, submitted, and approved for all applicable development
projects in accordance with the procedures and requirements set forth in this
section.
   B.   All changes in landscape plans before, during, or after preliminary or
final landscape plan approval shall be approved by the director prior to the
installation of any such landscape change.
   C.   All changes in the landscaping of a site before, during, or after final
landscape plan approval and landscape installation shall be approved by the
director as set forth in this section.
(Ord. 1397.17.1 (part), 1991; Res. 1976 § 2 (part), 1991)
17.52.380 Preliminary landscape plan.
   A.   Two copies of a preliminary landscape plan shall be submitted along
with the required development site plan for review by the director. The
preliminary landscape plan may be shown on the major site plan drawings. The
preliminary landscape plan shall be a conceptual plan and shall include the
following information in generalized form:
   1.   The location and identification of all proposed landscape areas (on-
site, street right-of-way, parking area, landscape buffers and others);
   2.   Preliminary data pertaining to the amount of net site area, the ground
floor areas of all proposed industrial buildings, the number of required and
proposed parking spaces, and the amount of all proposed landscaped areas,
required and provided;
       3.   The approximate location of all proposed trees, shrubs, and other
landscape materials and improvements;
      4.   Notes or graphical representations adequately showing the intent of
the proposed plans and materials and indicating how those plans will comply
with this section;
   5.   The location, height, type, and general design and finish of all
proposed screening walls;
       6.   The location of all proposed stormwater drainage and retention
areas;
       7.   Notes or graphic indications of the proposed type of irrigation
system, water source, pressure and supply outlet.
       B.   The preliminary landscape plan shall be reviewed and approved by
the director as part of the major site plan review or preliminary subdivision
review, and may be approved with stipulated changes or additions.
(Ord. 1397.17.1 (part), 1991; Res. 1976 § 2 (pan), 1991)
17.52.390 Final landscape plan.
   A.   Two copies of a final landscape plan shall be submitted along with all
other required site improvement and building plans at the time of application
for a building permit or prior to recording of the final plan. The final
landscape plan shall contain the final calculations, data, and specific details
and information of all proposed landscaped areas, landscape materials,
screening walls, irrigation system, and other items that were required and
identified in conceptual form on the preliminary landscape plan. The final
landscape plan shall contain a specific schedule of all plant material
identified by common and botani-cal name, and shall clearly indicate the
quantity and size of each tree and shrub, to be installed.
   B.   The final landscape plan shall be in conformance with the approved
preliminary plan and any stipulated changes or additions, and shall be approved
by the director prior to the issuance of a building permit or the recording of
the final plat.
(Ord. 1397.17.1 (part), 1991; Res. 1976 § 2 (part), 1991)
17.52.400 Installation of landscape improvements prerequisite to certificate of
occupancy--Bond to secure installation.
   All landscape improvements (landscape materials, irrigation system,
screening walls, etc.) shall be installed by the developer on the site in
accordance with the approved final landscape plan prior to the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy for the building or use. When considered advisable,
upon presentation of a cash bond, cash deposit, or assured letter of credit in
an mount sufficient to guarantee installation of the landscaping and irrigation
system, the director may approve a delay in the immediate installation of the
required landscape improvements for a period of time not to exceed six months.
In those instances where the director approved a delay in the installation of
the required landscape improvements, a temporary certificate of occupancy shall
be issued for the building or use conditioned upon the satisfactory
installation of the required landscape improvements within the time period
approved by the director.
(Ord. 1397.17.1 (part), 1991; Res. 1976 § 2 (part), 1991)
17.52.410 Low water use plants, minimum size of trees, shrubs, etc., and
substitution of cover for shrubs.
   A.   In order to conserve water, all plant materials installed shall be
listed on the low water use plant list as adopted in
Table 17.52.410 and may be amended, by the city of Casa Grande, or as approved
by planning and zoning commission at the time of review. Any plants located in
public rights-of-way must be listed on the plant list.
   B.   Unless otherwise specified herein, all required trees shall be a
minimum of fifteen gallons in size. All shrubs shall be a minimum of one gallon
in size. All fifteen gallon trees must be a minimum of six to eight feet in
height, three to four feet in spread and three-quarters to one and one-quarter-
inches trunk caliper at ground level. Upon approval of the director, the
installation of twenty square feet of vegetative groundcover in any landscaped
area may substitute for one required shrub, up to a maximum of thirty percent
of the required shrubs in any particular landscaped area.
   B.   All Mexican Fan Palms (Washington Robusta) and California Fan Palms
(Washingtonia Filifera) shall have a minimum five foot trunk height measured
from the base of the trunk to the base of the fronds when located within the
public fight-of-way or within twenty-five feet of the street property line.
(Ord. 1397.17.1 (part), 1991; Res. 1976 § 2 (part), 1991)
TABLE 17.52.410
City of Casa Grande Low Water Use Plant List
In order to promote water conservation, all plant material installed due to the
landscaping requirements of Chapter 17, Article VI of the Municipal Code must
be used from the list below. The city of Casa Grande gratefully acknowledges
the Arizona Department of Water Resources — Pinal Active Management Area for
the development of this list.
   A.   Trees
   Botanical Name   Common Name
   Acacia spp.   Acacia/Wattle
   Agonis flexuosa   West Australia Peppermint
   Brachychiton populneus   Bottle Tree
   Brahea spp.
   Bursera spp.
   Caesalpinia spp.
   Callistemon viminalis   Weeping Bottle Brush
   Casuarina spp.
   Celtis reticulata   Western Hackberry
   Ceratonia siliqua   St. John's Bread Tree/Carob Tree
   Cercidium spp.
   Chamaerops humilis   Mediterranean Fan Palm
   Chilopsis linearis   Desert Willow
   Cupressus arizonica   Arizona Cypress
   Cupressus sempervirens   Italian Cypress
   Dahlbergia sissoo   Sissoo Tree
   Dalea spp.
   Eucalyptus spp.
   Forchammeria watsonii
   Geijera parviflora   Australian Willow
   Gleditsia triacanthos   Honey Locust
   Leucaena retusa   Golden Ball Lead Tree
   Lysiloma spp.
   Olea Europaea “Swan Hill”   Swan Hill Olive (or other non-pollen producing
olive trees)
   Olneya tesota   Ironwood
   Parkinsonia aculeata   Mexican Palo Verde
   Phoenix canariansis   Canary Island Date Palm
   Phoenix dactylifera   Date Palm
   Pinus canariensis   Canary Island Pine
   Pinus eldarica   Afghan Pine
   Pinus halepensis   Aleppo Pine
   Pinus pinea   Italian Stone Pine
   Pinus roxburghii   Chir Pine
   Pistacia spp.   Pistachio
   Pithecellobium spp.
   Pittosporum phillyraeoides   Willow Pittosporum
   Prosopis spp.   Mesquite
   Quercus spp.   Oak
   Rhus lancea   African Sumac
   Schinus terebinthifolious   Brazilian Pepper
   Sophora secundiflora   Texas Mountain Laurel
   Tamarix aphylla   Athel Tree
   Ulmus parvifolia “sempervirens”   Evergreen Elm
   Vitex agnus-castus   Chaste Tree
   Washingtonia spp.   Fan Palm
   Ziziphus jujuba   Chinese Jujube
   B.   SHRUBS
   Botanical Name   Common Name
   Acacia spp.   Acacia/Wattle
   Alousia spp.
   Ambrosia deltoidea   Triangleleaf Bursage
   Ambrosia dumosa   White Bursage
   Atriplex spp.   Saltbush
   Baccaris spp.
   Berberis haematocarpa   Red Barberry
   Bougainvillea spp.   Bougainvillea
   Buddleia marrubifolia   Summer Lilac
   Caesalpinia spp.
   Caliandra californica   Fairy Duster
   Calliandra eriophylla   Fairy Duster
   Calliandra peninsularis   Fairy Duster
   Callistemon citrinus   Lemon Bottle Brush
   Callistemon viminalis “Captain Cook”   Dwarf Bottle Brush
   Calothamnus spp.   Cassia spp.
   Cassia
   Celtis pallida   Desert Hackberry
   Chrysothamnus nauseosus   Rabbit Brush
   Cistus spp.
   Convolvulus cneorum   Bush Morning Glory
   Cordia boissieri
   Cordia parvifolia   Little Leaf Cordia
   Dalea spp.
   Dodonaea spp.   Hopbush
   Encelia spp.   Brittlebush
   Ephedra spp.   Mormon Tea
   Eremaea beaufortioides   Eremea
   Eremaea pauciflora   Snow Gum
   Eremaea violacea   Violet Eremea
   Eriogonum spp.   Buckwheat
   Eucalyptus spp.
   Forestiera neomexicana   Desert Olive
   Genista hispanica   Spanish Broom
   Grevillea rosmarinifollia varieties
   Hakea spp.
   Haplopappus Laricifolia   Turpentine Bush
   Hyptis emoryi   Desert Lavender
   Jatropha spp.
   Juniperus chinensis varieties   Juniper
   Justicia spp.
   Kunzea spp.
   Lantana camara   Bush Lantana
   Leucophyllum spp.   Creosote Bush
   Lycium spp.
   Melaleuca spp.
   Mimosa biuncifera   Wait-a-Minute Bush
   Mimosa dysocarpa   Velvet Pod Mimosa
   Nerium oleander varieties   Oleander
   Plumbago scandens   Cape Plumbago
   Punica granatum varieties   Pomegranate
   Pyra cantha spp.   Pyracantha
   Quercus spp.   Oak
   Rhus ovata   Mountain Laurel
   Rhus trilobata   Skunkbush
   Rhus virens   Evergreen Sumac
   Ruellia californica   Ruellia
   Ruellia peninsularis
   Salvia spp. (shrub only)   Sage
   Sececio cineraria   Dusty Miller
   Simmondsia chinensis   Jojoba
   Sophora arizonica
   Sophora formosa
   Tecoma stans   Yellow Bells
   Teucrium fruticans   Bush Germander
   Vauquelinia spp.   Rosewood
   Viguiera tomentosa   Golden Eye
   Ziziphus obtusifolia   Greythorn
   C.   GROUNDCOVERS/HERBACEOUS PLANTS
   Botanical Name   Common Name
   Acaia spp.
   Anigozanthos spp.   Kangaroo Paw
   Artemisia spp.
   Asclepias subulata   Desert Milkweed
   Asparagus densiflorus cv. sprengeri   Sprenger Asparagus
   Atriplex spp.
   Baccharis spp.
   Carpobrotus edulis   Ice Plant
   Centaurea cineraria   Dusty Miller
   Cephalophyllum spp.   Red Spike Ice Plant
   Clianthus formosus   Sturt's Desert Pea
   Convolvulus mauritanicus   Ground Morning Glory
   Dalea spp.
   Gazania spp.   Gazania
   Grevillea crithmifolia   Spider Flower
   Kennedia coccinea   Coral Vine
   Kennedia prostrata   Scarlet Runner
   Lantana montevidensis   Trailing Lantana
   Malephora crocea   Ice Plant
   Myoporum parvifolium   Sandalwood
   Oenothera berlandieri   Mexican Evening Primrose
   Oenothera drummondii   Baja Primrose
   Pentzia incana   Karoo Groundcover
   Romneya coulteri   Matilija Poppy
   Rosmarinus officinalis   Prostrate Rosemary “prostratus”
   Salvia chamaedryoides   Blue Sage
   Salvia farinacea   Mealy Cup Sage
   Santolina chamaecyparissus   Lavender Cotton
   Santolina virens   Green Santolina
   Sesuvium verrucosum   Sea Purslane
   Sphaeralcea spp.   Globe-Mallow
   Verbena bipinnatifida   Verbena
   Verbena peruviana   Peruvian Verbena
   Verbena pulchella   False sand Verbena
   Verbena rigida   Verbena
   D.    SUCCULENTS
   Botanical Name   Common Name
   Agave spp.   Century Plant/Agave
   Aloe spp.   Aloe
   Cacti (all)
   Dasylirion spp.   Desert Spoon
   Fouquieria spp.
   Hesperaloe spp.
   Nolina spp.   Bear Grass
   Yucca spp.   Yucca
   E.   ANNUALS/PERENNIALS
   Botanical Name   Common Name
   Abronia villosa   Sand Verbena
   Arctotis spp.   African Daisy
   Argemone pleicantha   Prickly Poppy
   Baeria chrysostoma   Goldfield
   Bahia absinthifolia   Bahia
   Baileya multiradiata   Desert Marigold
   Cassia covesii
   Catharanthus roseus cultivars   Madagascar Periwinkle
   Celosia spp.   Cockscomb
   Cosmos spp.   Cosmos
   Dimorphotheca spp.   African Daisy
   Dyssodia pentachaeta   Dyssodia
   Eschscholzia californica   California Poppy
   Eschscholzia mexicana   Mexican Gold Poppy
   Gilia leptantha   Showy Blue Gilia
   Gomphrena globosa   Globe Amaranth
   Helichrysum bracteatum   Everlasting Daisy
   Helipterum spp.
   Kallstroemia grandiflora   Arizona Poppy
   Layia platyglossa   Tidy Tips
   Lesquerella gordoni   Gold Crucifer
   Linaria spp.   Toadflax
   Lupinus densiflorus   Lupine
   Lupinus sparsiflorus
   Matricaria grandiflora   Pineapple Weed
   Melampodium leucanthum   Blackfoot Daisy
   Mentzelia spp.   Blazing Star
   Orthocarpus purpurascens   Owl's Clover
   Pectis papposa   Chinch Weed
   Penstemon spp.
   Phacelia spp.
   Tagetes spp.   Marigold
   Ursinia spp.   Ursinia
   F.   GRASSES
   Botanical Name   Common Name
   Aristida purpurea   Red Three Awn
   Bromus rubens   Red Brome
   Eragrostis atherstone   Cochise Lovegrass
   Eragrostis lehmanniana   Lehmann Lovegrass
   Muhlenbergia dumosa   Giant Muhley
   Pennisetum setaceum   Fountain Grass
   Schismus barbatus   Schismus
   G.   VINES
   Botanical Name   Common Name
   Antigonon leptopus   Mountain Rose/Queens Wreath
   Bougainvillea spp.   Bougainvilla
   Billardiera ringens   Riverbell Flower
   Campsis radicans   Common Trumpet Creeper
   Cissus Trifoliata   Arizona Grape Ivy
   Clematis drummondii   Virgin's Bower
   Hardenbergia comtoniana   Wild Wisteria
   Kennedia nigricans   Black Yellow Vine
   Macfadyena unguis - cati   Cat Claw
   Mascagnia lilacaena   Lilac Orchid Vine
   Mascagnia macroptera   Yellow Orchid Vine
   Merremia aurea   Yuca
   Solanum jasminoides   Potato Vine
17.52.420 Natural topping of landscaped areas.
   All landscaped areas shall be finished with a natural topping material which
may include, but not be limited to, the following: turf, groundcover, planting,
decomposed granite (two inches minimum depth), river nm rock, expanded shale,
or bark. No more than forty percent of the total irrigated landscape area shall
be tuff. In developments with landscaping greater than ten thousand square
feet, no more than ten percent of the landscapable area shall be turf. A pre-
emergent herbicide shall be applied to the ground prior to the placement of
natural surface materials (decomposed granite, river run rock, etc.) in any
landscaped area to prevent weed growth.
(Ord. 1397.17.1 (part), 1991; Res. 1976 § 2 (part), 1991)
17.52.430 Landscaped areas along street frontage.
   Landscaped areas along street frontages shall be contoured or bermed to
provide variations in grade, visual relief, parking lot screening, and a more
pleasing aesthetic value.
(Ord. 1397.17.1 (part), 1991; Res. 1976 § 2 (part), 1991)
17.52.440 Irrigation standards.
   All landscaped areas shall be supported by an automatic irrigation system
which may be a spray, bubbler, or drip type system. A pressure-type vacuum
breaker shall be required with the installation of all sprinkler systems. All
irrigation systems and landscaped areas shall be designed, constructed, and
maintained so as to promote water conservation and prevent water overflow or
seepage into the street, sidewalk, or parking areas. "PVC" Schedule 40 type or
equal irrigation pipe shall be used in any street right-of-way landscaped areas
to be maintained by the city pursuant to Section
17.52.360(B).
(Ord. 1397.17.1 (part), 1991; Res. 1976 § 2 (part), 1991)
17.52.450 Obstructions to visibility.
   All landscaping and landscaped materials established in close proximity to a
driveway or street intersection shall be installed and maintained in compliance
with the sight visibility requirements set forth in Section
17.52.160(C) of this code.
(Ord. 1397.17.1 (part), 1991; Res. 1976 § 2 (part), 1991)
17.52.460 Protection of landscaped areas from vehicular damage.
   Protection of plant materials from vehicles in areas adjacent to parking
areas, driveways, and vehicular access ways shall include, but not be limited
to, concrete curbing.
(Ord. 1397.17.1 (part), 1991; Res. 1976 § 2 (part), 1991)
17.52.470 Use of landscape areas for other purposes.
   No part of any landscape area shall be used for any other use such as
parking or display; except for required on-site retention areas, signs or when
such use is shown on the approved final landscape plan.
(Ord. 1397.17.1 (part), 1991; Res. 1976 § 2 (part), 1991)
17.52.480 On-site landscaped areas.
   All development projects covered by Section
17.52.300 shall provide on-site landscaped areas located in accordance with the
following standards and requirements:
   A.    For all development within the industrial zoning districts, landscaped
areas shall be provided on the site in an amount equal to or greater than ten
percent of the ground floor area of all buildings, or seven percent of the net
site area, whichever is greater.
   B.    For all development within all other zoning districts, landscaped
areas shall be provided on the site in an amount equal to or greater than ten
percent of the net site area.
   C.    A landscaped area not less than an average width of fifteen feet
throughout a particular street frontage shall be established and maintained
along all street frontages between any building, on-site parking area or
outdoor storage area and the nearest point of the existing or future required
street/sidewalk improvements (the back of an existing sidewalk, the line equal
to the back of a future sidewalk, or the back of the street curb where no
sidewalk is required). The area of this landscape strip may be used to satisfy,
to the extent provided, the on-site landscaped area and street right-of-way
landscaping area requirements set forth in this section.
   D.   All portions of the development site not occupied by buildings,
structures, vehicle access and parking areas, loading/unloading areas, and
approved storage areas shall be landscaped in accordance with these provisions.
Future building pads within a phased development shall be improved with
temporary landscaping, or otherwise maintained weed-free in such a manner as
may be approved by the director.
(Ord. 1397.17.1 (part), 1991; Res. 1976 § 2 (part), 1991)
17.52.490 Street right-of-way landscaping.
   The landscaping of all street rights-of-way contiguous with the proposed
development site not used for street pavement, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, or
driveways shall be required in addition to the on-site landscaped areas
required in Section
17.52.480.
(Ord. 1397.17.1 (part), 1991; Res. 1976 § 2 (part), 1991)
17.52.500 Parking area landscaping.
   All applicable development projects with on-site parking areas greater than
one hundred spaces shall contain at least one landscaped planter, not less than
one hundred seventy-five square feet in area and with a minimum width of five
feet measured from back of curb to back of curb, for every ten parking spaces
provided on the site. No shrubs within a planter island of an on-site parking
area shall be maintained to a height in excess of three feet, and all trees
within such planters shall maintain a minimum clearance of five feet from the
lowest branch to the adjacent grade elevation. The required number of
landscaped planters shall be distributed or located within the parking areas to
enhance the proposed development project. The landscaped area within these
planters may be used to satisfy, to the extent provided, the landscape area
requirements set forth in Section
17.52.480.
(Ord. 1397.16.2 §§ 1 (part), 2 (part), 1994)
17.52.510 Street frontages.
   A.   The installation of street trees, shrubs, and vegetative groundcover
shall be required for all applicable projects if an amount equal to or greater
than one tree and three shrubs for each thirty feet of street frontage, and
vegetative groundcover occupying a minimum of sixty percent of the total street
frontage landscaped area. This minimum quantity of trees, shrubs, and
vegetative groundcover shall be located in the street right-of-way landscaped
area required in Section
17.52.490, or within the front twenty- five feet of the on-site landscaped
areas required in Section
17.52.480 and shall be designed and located to enhance the proposed development
project and the streetscape.
   B.   All street frontage landscaping located adjacent to driveway exits,
alleys, and street intersections shall be designed, installed, and maintained
in accordance with the height, location and visibility requirements as set
forth in Section
17.52.160(C).
(Ord. 1397.17.1 (part), 1991; Res. 1976 § 2 (part), 1991)
17.52.520 Multiple-family residential developments.
   All multiple-family residential developments shall contain a minimum of one
tree and two shrubs for each dwelling unit. For two-story buildings and above,
seventy-five percent of all required trees shall be twenty-four inch box or
larger in size. In addition to the foregoing requirement, one tree and two
shrubs shall be required within each planter island established within an open
parking area as required by Section
17.52.500.
(Ord. 1397.17.1 (part), 1991; Res. 1976 § 2 (part), 1991)
17.52.530 Industrial developments.
   All development within the industrial zoning districts shall contain a
minimum of one tree and three shrubs for every five parking spaces provided on
the site.
(Ord. 1397.17.1 (part), 1991; Res. 1976 § 2 (part), 1991)
17.52.540 Commercial and other developments.
   All development within the commercial zoning districts and all other
applicable development projects not specified in Sections
17.52.520 and
17.52.530 shall contain a minimum of two trees and five shrubs for every three
parking spaces provided on the site.
(Ord. 1397.17.1 (part), 1991; Res. 1976 § 2 (part), 1991)
17.52.550 Street frontage landscaping.
   All developments that back or side onto a street and which have a six-foot
screening wall constructed on the property line shall install within the street
right-of-way contiguous with the property three shrubs and one tree for every
thirty feet of such street frontage. All such trees and shrubs shall be
provided with an automatic drip or bubbler irrigation system. Ground cover
shall be one-quarter inch minus decomposed granite without plastic liners. A
pre-emergent herbicide shall be applied to the ground prior to and after the
placement of natural surface materials (decomposed granite, river run rock,
etc.) in any landscaped area to prevent weed growth. The foregoing requirement
shall apply in lieu of the street frontage landscape improvements required in
Section
17.52.510 for those applicable street frontages.
(Ord. 1397.17.1 (part), 1991; Res. 1976 § 2 (part), 1991)
17.52.560 Cumulative totals.
   Quantities of plants required by each of the Sections
17.52.510 through
17.52.550 which apply to that project submitted to the city for landscape
approval shall be added together to calculate the minimum total quantity of
plant materials required for that particular project.
(Ord. 1397.17.1 (part), 1991; Res. 1976 § 2 (part), 1991)
Article VII. Marijuana Uses
17.52.570 Application of this article.
   The requirements of this article shall apply to all marijuana uses.
(Ord. 1397.17.53 § 6, (part) 2021; Ord. 1397.17.37 § 7 (part), 2011)
17.52.580 Days and hours of operation.
   A marijuana dispensary shall only be allowed to operate between the hours of
7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
(Ord. 1397.17.53 § 6, (part) 2021; Ord. 1397.17.37.1 § 1, 2020; Ord. 1397.17.37
§ 7 (part), 2011)
17.52.590 Development standards.
   All marijuana uses shall:
   A.   Be located in a permanent building housing only one user or tenant,
except that a marijuana dispensary may be in a permanent building housing more
than one tenant, provided that the walls separating the dispensary tenant space
from the adjoining tenant space(s) are constructed to one of the following
standards, extending from the floor to the roof deck:
      1.   Minimum-six-inch masonry.
      2.   Interior wall covered with sheet metal, a minimum of 18 gauge, and
one layer of one-quarter-inch plywood fastened with screws to the interior wall
studs.
      3.   Construction designs approved by the Building Official as providing
an equivalent level of security.
   B.   Provide a monitored security alarm system.
   C.   Not be located in a trailer, cargo container, or motor vehicle.
   D.   Not have drive-through service.
   E.   Not emit dust, fumes, vapors, or odors into the environment above
ambient levels.
   F.   Not solicit, facilitate, or accept orders for delivery, or to deliver
marijuana or marijuana products in the city; provided that the prohibition in
this section shall not apply when delivery is done by a nonprofit medical
marijuana dispensary in compliance with the State of Arizona Department of
Health Services rules and requirements governing the Arizona Medical Marijuana
Program.
   G.   Prohibit consumption of marijuana on the premises.
   H.   Not have outdoor seating areas.
   I.   Display a current City of Casa Grande business license applicable to
medical marijuana uses.
(Ord. 1397.17.53 § 6, (part) 2021; Ord. 1397.17.37 § 7 (part), 2011)
17.52.600 Distance requirements.
   Marijuana uses shall meet the following minimum separations, measured in a
straight line from the boundary of the parcel containing the marijuana use to
the property boundary of the parcel containing any existing uses listed below:
   A.   Five hundred feet from any other marijuana use; except that a marijuana
dispensary may be co-located in the same building as a marijuana cultivation
facility .
   B.   Five hundred feet from a substance abuse diagnostic and treatment
facility, or other drug or alcohol rehabilitation facility.
    C.   Five hundred feet from any property zoned, used, or platted for
residential purposes.
   D.   One thousand feet from a public or private school.
   E.   One thousand feet from a daycare center providing care to minor
children.
   F.   Five hundred feet from a public library or public park.
   G.   Five hundred feet from a church or religious institution.
   H.   Five hundred feet from any airport.
(Ord. 1397.17.53 § 6, (part) 2021; Ord. 1397.17.37 § 7 (part), 2011)
17.52.610 Marijuana Dispensary Overlay Zone.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code, a marijuana dispensary
shall be principally permitted on any property that allows medical offices,
clinics, or other medical facilities, provided: (a) said property is located
within the following boundaries: north of Florence Boulevard, south of McMurray
Road, east of Arizola Road, and west of Henness Road; and (b) it also meets all
distance separation requirements prescribed in Section
17.52.600. All dispensaries permitted by this section shall also be subject to
all other requirements, restrictions, and prohibitions set forth in this
Chapter 17.52, Article VII.
(Ord. 1397.17.53 § 6, (part) 2021; Ord. 1397.17.37 § 7 (part), 2011)
Chapter 17.54
VARIANCES
Sections:
17.54.010   Generally.
17.54.020   Application for variance.
17.54.030   Notice of hearing.
17.54.040   Evidence required for variance.
17.54.050   Board of adjustment action on variances.
17.54.060   Disapproved application.
17.54.070   Conditional approval.
17.54.080   Guarantees.
17.54.010 Generally.
   The board of adjustment may allow a departure from the terms of the
development standards set forth in this title where such departure will not be
contrary to the public interest, and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the
property because of its size, shape or topography, and not as a result of the
action of the applicant, the literal enforcement of this title would deprive
the owner of the reasonable use of the land and/or building involved.
(Ord. 1397.17.48 § 1 (part), 2018; Ord. 1178 § 1, 1987)
17.54.020 Application for variance.
   A request for variance shall be made by filing an application with
appropriate fees. The application shall contain information as may be required
by the planning director for purposes of this title. The plans shall contain
sufficient information for the board to make a proper decision on the matter.
The request shall state the exceptional conditions and the peculiar and
practical difficulties claimed as a basis for a variance.
(Ord. 1397.17.48 § 1 (part), 2018; Ord. 1178 § 2, 1987)
17.54.030 Notice of hearing.
   A.   No variance may be granted by the board until a public hearing has been
held on the application.
   B.   A notice of time, date, place and purpose of the hearing shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation, published or circulated within
the city at least fifteen days prior to the date of the hearing.
   C.   A notice shall be posted on, or close to, the site affected, in a
location that allows for the public to read the notice from the public right-
of-way. The notice shall be in the form required by the planning department,
and shall contain sufficient information to inform the public of the nature of
the variance.
   D.   Additionally, a notice shall be mailed, at least fifteen days prior to
the hearing, to each owner of the property situated within two hundred feet of
the property to which the variance relates. The planning director shall be
responsible for mailing the notice. Failure to receive notice by individual
property owners will not necessarily invalidate the proceedings.
   E.   Notice of the time, date, place and purpose of the hearing shall be
sent to the applicant at least fifteen days prior to the healing date.
(Ord. 1397.17.48 § 1 (part), 2018; Ord. 1178 § 3, 1987)
17.54.040 Evidence required for variance.
   At the public hearing on a variance application, the applicant shall present
a statement and adequate evidence for the purpose of showing:
   A.   That there are special circumstances or conditions applicable to the
property referred to in the application which do not prevail on other property
in that zone, and that these special circumstances applicable to the property
were not self-imposed by the property owner;
   B.   That the strict application of the regulations would work an
unnecessary hardship and that the granting of the application is necessary for
the preservation and enjoyment of substantial existing property rights;
   C.   That the granting of such application will not materially affect the
health or safety of persons residing or working in the neighborhood and will
not be materially detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to property or
improvements of the neighborhood.
(Ord. 1397.17.48 § 1 (part), 2018; Ord. 1178 § 4, 1987)
17.54.050 Board of adjustment action on variances.
   A.   Within forty-five days of the date of application, but no sooner than
fifteen days from the date of public notice, the board of adjustment shall hold
a hearing on the variance request. The board shall consider oral or written
statements from the city staff, the applicant and the public.
   B.   In the event the board of adjustment can determine that the requested
variance substantially conforms to the standards set forth in Section
17.54.040, it may, by a vote of five members of the board, approve a variance
request. A variance request that is not approved shall be deemed to be denied.
Variance requests may be tabled by a vote of the simple majority of those board
members present. Any postponement shall be limited to a maximum of seventy-five
days; unless extended with the written permission of the applicant.
   C.   The board of adjustment shall forward a report of its findings, and any
conditions imposed on approved variances, promptly to the planning and zoning
commission and the city council. Transmitted meeting minutes will satisfy this
requirement.
(Ord. 1397.17.48 § 1 (part), 2018; Ord. No. 1397.17.43 § 2, 2012; Ord. 1178 §
5, 1987)
17.54.060 Disapproved application.
   In the event the board of adjustment disapproves an application for a
variance, no permit shall be issued pending appeal to the superior court. The
appeal shall be perfected within thirty days from the date the disapproval is
officially entered on the minutes of the board. If the court shall overrule the
action of the board, then the planning director shall issue the requested
permit without further action by the board; unless the court orders the board
to hold a further hearing to permit the board to fix conditions or require
guarantees as set forth in Sections
17.54.070 and
17.54.080.
(Ord. 1397.17.48 § 1 (part), 2018; Ord. 1178 § 6, 1987)
17.54.070 Conditional approval.
   In approving any variance, the board of adjustment may impose such
conditions as necessary to ensure the character of the area in which the
variance is granted is maintained in accordance with the objectives of this
title.
(Ord. 1397.17.48 § 1 (part), 2018; Ord. 1178 § 7, 1987)
17.54.080 Guarantees.
   Where necessary, the board of adjustment may require guarantees, in such
form as it may deem proper under the circumstances, to insure compliance with
any conditions imposed. Where any condition under which a variance has been
granted is violated, the variance shall cease to exist and the permit shall
become null and void.
(Ord. 1397.17.48 § 1 (part), 2018; Ord. 1178 § 8, 1987)
Chapter 17.56
PARKING AND ACCESS
Sections:
Article I. General Requirements
17.56.010   Applicability.
17.56.020   Definitions.
17.56.030   Parking space minimum requirements.
17.56.040   Parking space design requirements.
17.56.050   Accessible parking space requirements and design standards.
17.56.060   Electric vehicle charging spaces and design standards.
17.56.070   Parking area design standards.
17.56.080   Drive access design requirements.
17.56.090   Reserved.
17.56.100   Reserved.
Article II. Specific Requirements for Small Residential Uses
17.56.110   Applicability.
17.56.120   Small residential parking.
17.56.130   Small residential parking area and driveway access standards.
Article III. Specific Requirements for Large Residential Uses
17.56.140   Applicability.
17.56.150   Parking structures and garage spaces.
17.56.160   Parking location.
17.56.170   Parking area and access drive maintenance.
Article IV. Specific Requirements for Non-residential Uses
17.56.180   Applicability.
17.56.190   Parking area and drive access requirements.
17.56.200   Parking area and drive maintenance standards.
17.56.210   Off-street queueing requirements.
17.56.220   Off-street loading berth requirements.
17.56.230   Short term parking spaces.
17.56.240   Parking location.
Article V. Appropriate Arrangements for Reduced Parking Requirements
17.56.250   Alternative parking arrangements allowed.
17.56.260   Off-site parking requirements.
17.56.270   Joint use parking requirements.
17.56.280   Use of on-street parking to meet parking requirements.
17.56.290   In-lieu fee structure for reduced parking minimums.
ARTICLE I. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
17.56.010 Applicability.
   Subject to the provisions of Section
17.64.020 of this Code, the requirements and provisions of this Article shall
apply to all new uses, and change of use in a building, except that Small
Residential Uses, as defined in Section
17.56.050, that are on a single lot are exempt from the following sections:
-   
17.56.140--Parking area design standards.
-   
17.56.150(C); (D); (E) and (F)--Drive access design requirements.
(Ord. 1397.17.59, 2022)
17.56.020 Definitions.
   A.   Access Management Standards - The adopted City of Casa Grande Access
Management Standards as set forth in Exhibit B to Resolution No. 5427, as may
be amended from time to time.
   B.   Director - The Casa Grande Planning and Development Director or their
assignee.
   C.   Floor Area - The gross floor area of a building or outdoor patio.
   D.   Large Residential Uses- Residential buildings containing 3 or more
dwelling units or Group Homes with more than 10 residents.
   E.   Non-Residential Uses - Buildings containing uses other than residential
or mixed commercial-residential buildings which shall be treated as a Non-
Residential Use.
   F.   Small Residential Uses - Residential buildings containing no more than
2 dwelling units or Group Homes with 10 or less residents.
(Ord. 1397.17.59, 2022)
17.56.030 Parking space minimum requirements.
   A.   Minimum number of spaces required for all residential uses. All
residential uses are subject to the minimum parking requirements found in
Table 17.56.030.A.
   B.   Minimum number of spaces for all Non-Residential Uses. All Non-
Residential Uses are subject to the minimum parking requirements found in
Table 17.56.030.B.
   C.   Maximum number of parking spaces provided. Developments, other than
Small Residential Uses, shall provide no more than 200% of minimum parking
required on site. This provision shall not apply to parking lots existing at
the time of adoption of this ordinance.
   D.   Bicycle, scooter and similar alternative modes of transportation
parking. Developments, other than Small Residential Uses, shall provide
appropriate parking facilities for bicycles, electric scooters and similar
types of alternative modes of transportation equal to 5% of the vehicle parking
required but in no case less than can accommodate four such vehicles. Provision
of said parking shall be in addition to the provision of motor vehicle parking.
Table 17.56.030.A - Residential Off-Street Parking Requirements
Dwelling Type Parking Requirement
Dwelling Type                           Parking Requirement
Single-family residential               2 spaces/unit
Manufactured, mobile and park homes (w/ 2 spaces/unit
adjacent on-street parking)
Manufactured, mobile and park homes (w/ 2 spaces/unit
o adjacent on-street parking)           Plus, 1 guest space per 5 units to be
                                        located in a common parking area
Duplex, Triplex & Fourplex              2 spaces/unit
                                        1 space/unit for studio/1BR
Apartments, and Build-to-Rent           1.75 spaces/unit for 2BR+
                                        PLUS 1 guest space per 5 units
Group home                              .5 spaces/guest room
 
Table 17.56.030.B - Non-Residential Off-Street Parking Requirements
Commercial
Uses (Retail,
Office,       1 space per 400 square feet of floor area, unless otherwise specified below.
Commercial
Services)
              
Special Provisions by Use
All retail    One (1) additional space per 500 square feet of accessory outdoor display and
uses with     sales area;
accessory     PLUS
outdoor
sales,
displays and  One (1) additional space per 1000 square feet of fenced outdoor storage area.
storage
areas.
Automobile
sales with
outdoor       Two (2) additional spaces per twenty (20) outdoor vehicle display spaces.
vehicle
display areas
Furniture
Stores
Exceeding     One (1) space per 500 square feet of floor area.
20,000 Square
Feet
Swap meets    One (1) space per 400 square feet applied to designated indoor and outdoor
and flea      vendor area.
markets
Plant         One (1) space per 1,000 square feet of outdoor storage, sales and/or display
nurseries,    area between 0 -10,000 square feet;
building      PLUS
material
sales, and    One (1) space per 2,000 square feet of outdoor storage, sales, and/or display
other outdoor area over 10,000 square feet.
sales uses
Convenience
stores and
other retail  1 space per 400 square feet of floor area plus two (2) spaces per pump island.
uses with
gasoline
service pumps
Car washes    Four (4) spaces.
              One (1) space per 400 square feet of office floor area;
Self-storage  PLUS
facilities    One (1) space for each rental truck and/or trailer stored on site;
              PLUS
              One (1) space per residential caretaker unit.
Food Service
and           1 space per 150 square feet of floor area and outside seating area.
Entertainment
Uses include: Bars and taverns, fast food restaurants, restaurants, private club or lodge,
entertainment (commercial).
Hospitality   1 space per guest room PLUS the required number of parking spaces to support any
and Lodging   Ancillary Hospitality and Lodging Uses as specified below.
Uses include: Hotels, motels, bed and breakfast, extended stay properties.
Ancillary Hospitality and Lodging Uses
Restaurants,
food service  One (1) space per 200 square feet of floor area.
and bars
within hotels
Public
assembly or   One (1) space for each six (6) seats based upon design capacity.
conference
areas
Other
commercial,
service use   One (1) space per 400 square feet of commercial floor area.
or office
areas
Assembly      1 space per 4 seats provided in facility.
Uses include: Movie theaters, auditoriums, performing arts centers, religious institutions,
museums, other assembly and gathering structures.
              1 space per 750 square feet of floor area (first 20,000 square feet);
              PLUS
              1 space per 1000 square feet of additional floor area between 20,000 - 100,000
              square feet);
              PLUS
              1 space per 1500 square feet of additional floor area over 100,000 square feet
              OR
              One (1) space per employee on the shift with the highest number of employees,
              whichever is greater.
              Office space within a manufacturing or industrial use shall be calculated at one
              (1) space per 400 square feet of floor area.
Manufacturing Building area dedicated exclusively to warehousing/storage within a
and Industry  manufacturing or industrial use shall be calculated at one (1) space per 1,500
              square feet of floor area.
              Manufacturing or industrial uses with verifiable unique manufacturing
              characteristics that would require fewer parking spaces than those otherwise
              required by this table may propose alternative parking ratios, based on the
              unique characteristics of that industry. Use of the alternative parking
              standards shall require:
                 1. Approval by the Director;
                 2. Demonstration that there is adequate room on the site to provide the
              standard parking required if such parking is needed in the future; and
                 3. A recorded agreement between the City and the property owner, verifying
              that the property owner will provide additional on-site parking, if needed due
              to future employee and/or customer parking demand as determined by the City.
              One (1) space per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area for first 150,000 square
              feet;
Warehousing   PLUS
and           One (1) space per 2,000 square feet of additional gross floor area between
Distribution  150,001 and 500,000 square feet;
Centers       PLUS
              One (1) space per 2,500 square feet of additional gross floor area over 500,000
              square feet.
              1 space per 200 square feet of medical clinic
Medical       PLUS
              One (1) space per in-patient bed.
Uses include: Hospitals, medical clinics, dental clinics, vision clinics, physician/
chiropractor/psychiatrist/psychologist/therapist offices.
Recreation    1 space per 250 square feet of floor area and outdoor play field, unless
              otherwise specified below.
Uses include: Recreation centers, golf courses, court clubs (racquetball, tennis, etc.), dance
halls, skating rinks, bowling alleys, other indoor or indoor/outdoor recreation
Special
Provisions by  
Use
              One (1) space per two practice tees;
Golf Courses  PLUS
              Four (4) spaces per each hole on course.
              4 spaces
              PLUS
              One (1) space per 20,000 sf of building with interior access to storage via
Self-Storage  corridors;
Facilities    PLUS
              One (1) space per 400 square feet of office floor area;
              PLUS
              One (1) space per on-site manager's quarters.
 
Note: If a use falls outside of the use categories listed here, a suitable
parking standard may be determined by the Director.
(Ord. 1397.17.60 § 14, 2023; Ord. 1397.17.59, 2022)
17.56.040 Parking space design requirements.
   A.   Compliance with design requirements. All parking spaces provided for
any use shall meet these design requirements, in addition to parking
requirements for specific uses set forth in other Articles of this Chapter.
   B.   Parking dimensions. All parking spaces provided for any use shall meet
the dimension requirements found in
Table 17.56.040. Further clarification about required parking space dimensions
is provided in Figures A-C.
Table 17.56.040 - Required Parking Space Dimensions
 
Angle      Width    Width       Length   Length ADA Aisle Width Aisle Width 2-
           Standard Handicapped Standard Accessible 1-Way       Way
90 degrees 9'       13'         18'      18'        N/A         25'
75 degrees 9'       13'         20'      20'        16'         20'
60 degrees 9'       13'         20'      21'        16'         20'
45 degrees 9'       13'         21'      21'        16'         20'
30 degrees 9'       13'         17'      18'        12'         20'
0 degrees  10'      10'         22'      22'        12'         20'
(parallel)
 
Note: In cases where a drive aisle is also functioning as a fire lane it shall
have a minimum width of 20'.
Figure A. Typical 90-degree parking space assemblies
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9c6687cea595659b466f012867481463058b4d09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6622.png]
 
Figure B. Typical 30-45-60-75-degree parking space assemblies
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9c6687cea595659b466f012867481463058b4d09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6624.png]
 
Figure C. Typical parallel parking assemblies
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9c6687cea595659b466f012867481463058b4d09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6626.png]
 
(Ord. 1397.17.59, 2022)
17.56.050 Accessible parking space requirements and design standards.
   A.   Requirement to provide accessible parking spaces. Parking facilities
required to comply with the requirements of this code, shall include the
provision of accessible parking in conformance with this section. An accessible
parking area shall consist of accessible spaces and access aisles as set forth
by this section.
   B.   Number of accessible spaces required. The minimum number of accessible
parking spaces provided for each development shall meet the requirements of
Table 17.56.050.
Table 17.56.050 - Accessible Parking Space Requirements
Total Parking Spaces Required Number of Accessible Spaces Required
Total Parking Spaces Required Number of Accessible Spaces Required
1-25                          1
26-50                         2
51-75                         3
76-100                        4
101-150                       5
151-200                       6
201-300                       7
301-400                       8
401-500                       9
501-1000                      2% of total spaces
1001+                         20 spaces PLUS 1 space for every 100 spaces over
                              1,000 provided
 
   C.   Additional accessible parking standards for healthcare uses. All off-
street parking areas for the following uses must also conform with the
following standards for accessible space provision:
   1.   General health care facilities: employee and visitor parking must
comply with the standard accessible space requirements set forth in
Table 17.56.050.
   2.   Outpatient facilities: Not less than 10% of the total parking spaces
provided shall be accessible spaces.
   3.   Spinal cord injury facilities: Not less than 20% of the total parking
spaces provided shall be accessible spaces.
   D.   Number of van-accessible spaces required. Van-accessible spaces shall
be provided at a ratio of one space per every six required accessible spaces.
   E.   Equitable distribution of covered spaces. In a parking garage, or
parking area with shade canopies, the ratio of covered to uncovered accessible
parking spaces shall not be less than the ratio of covered to uncovered spaces
non-accessible parking spaces.
   F.   Accessible space design. Accessible spaces must meet minimum parking
dimensions set forth in
Table 17.56.040. In addition to these space dimension requirements, all spaces
must also conform to the following requirements:
   1.   All single accessible spaces must be serviced by a single side access
aisle with a minimum width of five feet. The single side access aisle must have
a minimum width of eight feet when adjacent to a van-accessible space.
   G.   Accessible space placement. Accessible parking spaces shall be located
on the shortest route of travel to an accessible building entrance.
   1.   The route of travel from accessible spaces shall not cross lanes for
vehicular traffic unless demonstrated that such an arrangement is not practical
on the site.
   2.   Where crossing lanes for vehicular traffic, the route of travel shall
be designated and marked by a crosswalk with a minimum width of four feet.
   3.   In facilities with multiple accessible building entrances with adjacent
on-site parking, accessible parking spaces shall be dispersed and located at
the shortest available distance from accessible entrances.
   H.   Grading requirements. Accessible parking spaces shall be located on a
surface with a not exceed a 2% slope.
   I.   Surfacing requirements. All accessible parking areas must be paved with
a surface which allows for unimpeded travel by individuals with disabilities.
   J.   Signage and identification requirements. Accessible spaces shall be
identified through the use of signage conforming to the following requirements:
   1.   Accessible parking spaces shall be prominently identified with paint on
all four sides of the parking stall in conformance with striping standards for
all parking spaces.
   2.   Accessible parking spaces shall feature the international wheelchair
symbol displayed on the ground at the entry of the space.
   3.   The color scheme of all painted features shall be distinct and in
contrast from that of standard non-accessible parking spaces.
   4.   Access aisles shall be identified by painted diagonal striping.
   5.   Each accessible parking space shall be identified by a sign which meets
the size and height requirements of the American Disabilities Act (ADA) and
identifies van accessibility when appropriate.
   K.   Conversion of standard parking stalls to accessible stalls. Parking
areas that do not have sufficient accessible parking to meet code requirements
shall be permitted to combine and convert up to 10% of the non-accessible
standard spaces into accessible spaces. Said conversion shall be allowed even
if it results in fewer total parking spaces being available than those required
for the use.
(Ord. 1397.17.59, 2022)
17.56.060 Electric vehicle charging spaces and design standards.
   A.   Electrical vehicle charging spaces. When parking facilities are
required by this code, spaces restricted to electric power vehicles are
encouraged to be provided in conformance with this section. A restricted
electric vehicle parking area shall consist of parking spaces and
infrastructure associated with electric vehicle charging. Parking spaces
provided for electric vehicles shall be counted in meeting minimum parking
requirements.
   B.   Number of electric vehicle charging spaces provided. All sites required
to provide greater than 25 parking spaces according to Section
17.56.030 are strongly encouraged to provide electric vehicle charging spaces
on site. All spaces dedicated for electric vehicles for all developments are
encouraged to meet the preferred number of spaces set out in
Table 17.56.060.
Table 17.56.060 - Preferred Number of Electric Vehicle Charging Spaces
 
Total # of Parking Spaces on Site # of Preferred Electric Parking Spaces
0-25                              0
25-100                            1
100+                              2% of total parking spaces on site
 
   C.   Electric vehicle charging infrastructure classifications. The following
grade of charging infrastructure shall be provided in conjunction with electric
vehicle charging spaces:
   1.   Non-Residential Uses: All charging infrastructure provided shall be
208/40V Level 2 or Level 3 charging stations. No Level 1 charging outlets may
be used to satisfy the requirements of this section.
   2.   Residential uses: Charging infrastructure may be provided at any
infrastructure class, with a minimum of one (1) space dedicated for a 208/40V
Level 2 or Level 3 charging station.
   D.   Electric vehicle parking space design. Electric vehicle charging spaces
shall conform to the following design standards:
   1.   All spaces must include a minimum of one outlet, connector or charging
station capable of providing sufficient electrical charge to operate an
electric vehicle.
   2.   The addition of electric vehicle infrastructure must not reduce the
size of the parking space as required in Section
17.56.040.
   3.   Electric vehicle charging infrastructure shall not be placed in a
manner which restricts pedestrian movement throughout the site.
   4.   Electric vehicle charging spaces shall meet striping, grading and
lighting requirements set forth for non-accessible parking spaces in this
ordinance.
   E.   Electric vehicle parking space placement. Electric vehicle charging
spaces shall be placed in compliance with the following requirements:
   1.   All electric vehicle spaces must be located on the same site as the
principal use.
   2.   Developments providing more than one (1) electric vehicle charging
space are encouraged to make spaces contiguous on site to reduce infrastructure
costs and improve wayfinding.
   F.   Electric vehicle charging infrastructure requirements. All installed
charging infrastructure shall meet the following requirements:
   1.   Charging outlets and connecting devices shall be placed no less than 36
inches and no greater than 48 inches above the ground.
   2.   All cords attached to charging infrastructure shall be retractable or
have area to hang cord and/or connector above the ground.
   3.   All infrastructure shall be protected by curb or wheel stop greater
than 24 inches from charging infrastructure to protect from vehicle strikes.
   4.   Design of charging infrastructure shall be appropriate with the design
of the structures on the site.
   5.   All infrastructure must comply with local and state codes and meet all
relevant standards of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).
   G.   Signage and identification requirements. Electric vehicle charging
spaces shall be identified utilizing signage conforming to the following
requirements:
   1.   Each electric vehicle charging space shall be identified by a sign
which clearly demarcates that the space is reserved for electric vehicle use.
   2.   For sites requiring greater than four (4) electric vehicle spaces,
wayfinding signage shall be provided to guide users to available electric
vehicle charging spaces.
   H.   Electric vehicle charging space parking restrictions. Except when built
for a single-family or two-family residential use, electric vehicle charging
spaces shall be reserved for the parking and charging of electric vehicles
only.
(Ord. 1397.17.59, 2022)
17.56.070 Parking area design standards.
   A.   Backing into street right-of-way prohibited. Off-street parking spaces
and off-street loading berths shall be designed to be accessed from an internal
access drive that meets the requirements of Sections
17.56.080(C) and (D) of this Chapter and not directly into a public street.
   B.   Striping. All on-site parking spaces shall be marked with painted lines
not less than 4 inches wide.
   C.   Grade. The grade elevation of any parking area shall not exceed 3%.
   D.   Surfacing requirements. All areas intended to be used for parking,
internal site circulation, and/or drive aisles shall be paved and designed to a
specification appropriate to the type and volume of anticipated traffic. All
surfaced areas shall consist of one or more of the following hard materials:
   1.   Asphalt
   2.   Concrete
   3.   Other hard and dust-free surface approved by City Planning and
Development Director
   E.   Prohibited parking. Vehicle parking on private property shall only
occur on parking lots that are paved in accordance with this Article and zoned
for the intended use. Parking of vehicles in areas other than approved parking
lots, or areas of a lot that are specifically designated for parking or vehicle
display, shall be prohibited.
   F.   Curbing and parking setback requirements. All off-street parking areas,
driveways and internal circulation areas shall meet the following requirements:
   1.   All on-site parking stalls which abut property lines shall be designed
and constructed such that parked vehicles shall not protrude over property
lines. A 6-inch curb, pre-cast concrete curb stop, or an alternative perimeter
barrier approved by the Director, shall be installed a minimum of 3 feet away
from property lines to avoid protrusion over property lines.
   2.   A 6-inch curb shall be installed a minimum of 3 feet away from the edge
of all on-site parking stalls and any adjacent structure, wall, or fence to
limit vehicle damage to the adjacent building, wall or fence.
   G.   Lighting requirements. Any lighting installed to illuminate an off-
street parking area shall meet the following requirements:
   1.   Lighting across the site will be designed in compliance with
Chapter 15.48 of this code.
   2.   Lighting will reflect light away from adjacent properties and public
right-of-ways.
   3.   Lighting will utilize full cut-off fixtures to conform to City's
outdoor lighting standards.
   4.   Specific lighting designs will be determined in conjunction with the
review of the Major or Minor Site Plan to ensure that an adequate level of site
security is created.
   H.   Screening requirements. All developments with off-street parking lots
with greater than 10 spaces shall be screened from the view of adjacent public
streets through the use of a 3-foot wall adjacent to the parking area. Wall
design should be architecturally compatible with the building(s) located on the
site.
(Ord. 1397.17.59, 2022)
17.56.080 Drive access design requirements.
   A.   Access required. No development shall be approved unless the area to be
developed meets the following requirements:
   1.   Has access to an existing public or private street.
   2.   The street providing access to development has been deemed to be of
sufficient width and construction standard to accommodate anticipated traffic
load and trips.
   3.   Driveway access shall comply with the Access Management Standards.
   B.   Drive access location and spacing requirements. Drive accesses shall
meet the following requirements for access location and spacing found in the
Access Management Standards:
   1.   The number of access points provided shall be sufficient to handle
anticipated travel to and from the development and allow adequate emergency
access.
   2.   Access spacing shall meet the driveway spacing requirements.
   3.   Drive access points for Non-Residential Uses shall meet the minimum
corner and intersection clearance requirements.
   4.   The location of drive access points shall meet all requirements for
driveway coordination along roadways.
   C.   Drive access width. Access drives shall not have a width of less than
24 feet when 2-way traffic is allowed, and a width of no less than 12 feet in
width for 1-way traffic. Specific driveway widths shall be determined in
conjunction with a Traffic Impact Analysis where such an analysis is required.
   D.   Internal circulation requirements. Internal drives shall be designed to
provide access to all required parking spaces and to provide adequate
circulation between each access point on the site.
   E.   Adequacy confirmed by Traffic Impact Assessment. The adequacy of access
drive and internal circulation design shall be determined through the Traffic
Impact Analyses Procedures as detailed in the Access Management Standards.
   F.   Allowed alterations to access standards.
   1.   Exceptions. The standards in this section may be relaxed or altered by
the City Traffic Engineer if shown during the review of an access request and/
or applicable Traffic Impact Analysis that an alternative design can be used
without jeopardizing the public's health, safety, and welfare.
   2.   Appeals - The decision of the City Traffic Engineer on an exception
request can be appealed to the Planning Commission and City Council in
accordance with Section 6.7 of the Access Management Standards.
(Ord. 1397.17.59, 2022)
17.56.090 - Reserved.
17.56.100 - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS FOR SMALL RESIDENTIAL USES
17.56.110 Applicability.
   This Article shall only apply to Small Residential Uses as defined in
Section
17.56.020.
(Ord. 1397.17.59, 2022)
17.56.120 Small residential parking.
   A.   Parking structures and garage spaces. Off-street parking requirements
may be met with parking spaces located in a garage structure or on a surface
parking area. Garages used to meet minimum parking space requirements shall not
be converted into space which can no longer provide parking until adequate
provisions are made to comply with the parking requirements found in this
Chapter.
   B.   Tandem parking spaces allowed. Tandem parking spaces, defined as one
vehicle being parked fully behind another vehicle prohibiting free ingress and
egress of the vehicle may be counted to meet requirements of this Chapter.
(Ord. 1397.17.59, 2022)
17.56.130 Small residential parking area and driveway access standards.
   A.   Access required. No development shall be approved unless the proposed
site has frontage on and access to an existing public street or alley, or
access to the same via a recorded access easement of adequate width.
   B.   Drive access location and spacing requirements. Drive accesses shall
meet the requirements for access location and spacing found in the Access
Management Standards.
   1.   No more than one access point per dwelling unit, except for the
following exceptions:
   a.   Circular drives which meet requirements of Section
17.56.130(1).
   b.   Approval from the Director for secondary access.
   2.   Driveway spacing and corner clearances shall meet the requirements of
the Access Management Standards.
   C.   Backing into local street. Small Residential Uses may have driveways
that allow vehicles to back directly into local streets.
   D.   Driveway access width. Driveway access width shall be greater than 12
feet but not exceed 36 feet in width. Exceptions may be approved by the City
Traffic Engineer.
   E.   Driveway and parking area lot coverage. Driveways and paved areas
designed for parking may not exceed 50% of the area designated as the front
yard setback.
   F.   Surfacing requirements. Driveway pavement shall consist of one or more
of the following materials:
   1.   Asphalt
   2.   Concrete
   3.   Pavers
   4.   Crushed rock, or another dust-free aggregate surface, limited to 40% of
the parking area
   5.   Other hard and dust-free surface approved by the Director
   G.   Prohibited parking. Vehicle parking shall only occur on areas that are
surfaced in accordance with this Article.
   H.   Low volume driveway access. Low volume driveway access areas serving RV
gates or similar access points may be constructed of crushed rock or other
similar dust-free surfaces approved by the Director.
   I.   Driveway grade. The grade elevation of any parking area or driveway
shall not exceed three percent (3%).
   J.   Circular drives allowed. Single-Family Residential uses are allowed to
have two access points when used in a circular drive pursuant to the following
conditions:
   1.   Drive access points shall be separated by a minimum of 20 feet,
measured to closest points of each drive.
   2.   The width of each circular drive access shall not exceed 24 feet at the
property line.
   3.   Drive area for vehicle use exceeds no more than 50% of the front yard
setback of the property.
   4.   Parking space requirements are met with the design of the drive.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9c6687cea595659b466f012867481463058b4d09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6634.png]
 
(Ord. 1397.17.59, 2022)
ARTICLE III. SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS FOR LARGE RESIDENTIAL USES
17.56.140 Applicability.
   This Article shall only apply to Large Residential Uses as defined in
Section
17.56.020.
(Ord. 1397.17.59, 2022)
17.56.150 Parking structures and garage spaces.
   Up to a maximum of 80% of the required off-street parking spaces may be met
with parking spaces located in a garage structure.
(Ord. 1397.17.59, 2022)
17.56.160 Parking location.
   Each dwelling unit shall have parking spaces available within 300 feet
measured along a pedestrian route.
(Ord. 1397.17.59, 2022)
17.56.170 Parking area and access drive maintenance.
   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to maintain the parking
spaces, accessways, striping, landscaping, required fencing and buffering in
good repair and in compliance with the City approved plan.
(Ord. 1397.17.59, 2022)
ARTICLE IV. SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS FOR NON-RESIDENTIAL USES
17.56.180 Applicability.
   This Article shall only apply to Non-Residential Uses as defined in Section
17.56.020.
(Ord. 1397.17.59, 2022)
17.56.190 Parking area and drive access requirements.
   A.   Parking screening. All parking areas abutting residentially zoned, or
used, property shall be subject to the following screening requirements:
   1.   Parking areas shall be screened from the view of the abutting
residentially zoned, or used, property, using a decorative wall, view-obscuring
fence, or another material approved by the Director.
   2.   Said screening wall or fence shall be no less than 5 feet, nor more
than 6 feet, in height unless an alternative height has been found to be
appropriate and approved by the Director.
(Ord. 1397.17.59, 2022)
17.56.200 Parking area and drive maintenance standards.
   A.   Maintenance responsibility. It shall be the responsibility of the owner
of the property to maintain the following features in a manner that complies
with this code and/or in compliance with the approved Major/Minor Site Plan for
the development: the parking space, accessways, striping, landscaping and
required fencing and buffering.
   B.   Off-site parking maintenance responsibility. All off-site and/or shared
parking shall be subject to legal agreements which clearly identify the parties
which are responsible for maintaining the parking space, accessways, striping,
landscaping and required fencing and buffering in compliance with this code.
(Ord. 1397.17.59, 2022)
17.56.210 Off-street queueing requirements.
   A.   Minimum stall count and dimension requirements for drive-thru
facilities. Drive-thru facilities shall comply with the standards outlined in
Table 17.56.210. Drive-thru queue length shall be measured from the center of
the last service window. Queue length for car wash uses shall be measured from
the stop line prior to entrance to vehicle space inside car wash building.
Queue length for ATMs shall be measured from the actual ATM.
   B.   Interference with street or parking areas prohibited. The stall
dimensions and minimum stall requirements shall be met without interfering with
through streets, internal circulation drives or parking areas.
   C.   Queueing lane width requirements. All drive-thru lanes shall have a
minimum width of 10 feet. Drive aisles used for internal site circulation,
parking lot access or traffic distribution shall not be used as drive-thru
lanes nor be counted toward any requirement for drive-thru lane dimensions.
Table 17.56.210 - Queueing Space Requirements
Drive-Thru Facility Required vehicle storage per lane Required length per lane
Drive-Thru Facility       Required vehicle storage per Required length per lane
                          lane
Fast-Food Restaurants
Fast-Food - between order 5                            100'
board & pick up window
Fast-Food - behind order  4                            80'
board
Other Uses
Bank (drive up teller     7                            140'
window or ATM)
Car wash (self-service)   2                            40'
Car wash (automatic)      5                            100'
Dry Cleaner               2                            40'
Pharmacy                  2                            40'
Retail (with no           3                            60'
preparation)
Oil change facility       2                            40'
 
Figure D. Queueing Lane Design Requirements
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9c6687cea595659b466f012867481463058b4d09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6636.png]
(Ord. 1397.17.59, 2022)
17.56.220 Off-street loading berth requirements.
   A.   Number of berths required. All commercial, office and industrial uses
shall provide off-street truck loading/unloading berths in accordance with
Table 17.56.220.
Table 17.56.220 - Off-Street Loading Berth Requirements
Square Feet of Aggregate Gross Floor Area Devoted to Required Number of Berths
Qualifying Use
Square Feet of Aggregate Gross Floor Area Devoted to  Required Number of Berths
Qualifying Use
15,000 to 40,000 square feet                          1
40,001 to 100,000 square feet                         2
100,001 to 160,000 square feet                        3
160,001 to 240,000 square feet                        4
240,001 to 320,000 square feet                        5
320,001 to 400,000 square feet                        6
400,001 to 490,000 square feet                        7
For each 90,000 square feet above 490,000 square feet +1 berth
 
 
   B.   Off-street loading berth design requirements. Unless otherwise
specified in these zoning regulations, all off-street loading facilities shall
meet the following standards:
   1.   The first loading berth shall be at least 70 feet in length and
additional berths required shall be at least 45 feet in length.
   2.   All loading berths shall be at least twelve feet in width and provide
at least fourteen feet of overhead clearance, exclusive of aisle and
maneuvering space.
   C.   Loading berth allowed locations. All off-street loading facilities
shall meet the following requirements for placement on a site:
   1.   May occupy any part of interior side or rear setbacks and may not enter
front or exterior side setbacks.
   2.   Shall not be located closer than 50 feet to any residential zoned or
used property unless separated from that zone by a masonry wall not less than
eight feet in height.
   3.   Sufficient room for turning and maneuvering vehicles shall be provided
on the site so that vehicle cross property lines only by driving forward.
   D.   Backing into street right-of-way. No loading berth may be accessed by
backing in from street right-of-way or backing into street right-of-way.
Loading berths must be accessible with vehicle fully contained within site.
(Ord. 1397.17.59, 2022)
17.56.230 Short term parking spaces.
   Parking spaces designated for short term usage, such a food pick-up, shall
be counted as meeting minimum code requirements.
(Ord. 1397.17.59, 2022)
17.56.240 Parking location.
   Each parking spaces shall be located a maximum distance of 500 feet,
measured along a pedestrian route, from the building(s{'}'} they are intended
to serve.
(Ord. 1397.17.59, 2022)
ARTICLE V. APPROPRIATE ARRANGEMENTS FOR REDUCED PARKING REQUIREMENTS
17.56.250 Alternative parking arrangements allowed.
   Parking requirements for uses outlined in this section may be reduced or met
off-site via:
   1.   Off-site parking facilities
   2.   Joint use parking agreements
   3.   On-street parking
   4.   Payment of an in-lieu fee
(Ord. 1397.17.59, 2022)
17.56.260 Off-site parking requirements.
   A.   Off-site parking permitted. Off-site parking to meet the required
spaces outlined in this chapter is permitted under the following conditions:
   1.   Any off-site parking which is used to meet the requirements of this
section, other than off-site parking facilities in the Downtown General Plan
land use category or uses qualifying for Joint Use Parking in accordance with
17.56.270, shall require the approval of a Conditional Use Permit and shall be
subjected to all conditions listed in this section.
   2.   Reasonable pedestrian and vehicular access is required to be provided
from off-site parking facilities to the principal use being served.
   3.   Off-site parking facilities shall not be located more than 500 feet
from the site of the principal use being served.
   B.   Off-site parking agreements required. The site used for meeting the
off-street parking requirements of this chapter shall be under:
   1.   The same ownership as the principal use being served, or
   2.   Public ownership, or
   3.   An appropriate legally binding agreement or easement that ensures
parking is available for the duration of the use.
(Ord. 1397.17.59, 2022)
17.56.270 Joint use parking requirements.
   A.   Joint use parking permitted. Off-site parking to meet the required
spaces outlined in this chapter is permitted for the following uses:
   1.   Churches and auditoriums within 300 feet of approved commercial uses
   2.   Adjacent uses which are eligible to utilize shared parking factor table
   B.   Churches and auditoriums eligible for shared use. Up to 80% of the
parking spaces required by this section for a church or auditorium incidental
to a public or parochial school may be supplied by the off-street parking
facilities of general retail, office, and business service uses, other uses
which realize at least 80% of their parking demand during daytime hours, or
other uses as allowed by the Director.
   C.   Compatible adjacent uses eligible to utilize shared parking factor
table. Uses which typically have off-setting demands in parking use throughout
daily operation may complete joint use parking agreements using the shared
parking factors outlined in
Table 17.56.270. When 2 adjacent sites are eligible for such an agreement, each
site may divide its minimum required parking stalls by the factor identified in
Table 17.56.270. All agreements leveraging the parking factor tool must meet
all other relevant conditions for joint use in this section. This arrangement
is designed to promote shared parking between compatible uses in new
construction.
Table 17.56.270 Shared Parking Factors
 
                    Residential (multi-family) Lodging Business office Retail
Residential (multi- 1                          1.1     1.2             1.1
family)
Lodging             1.1                        1       1.4             1.2
Business office     1.2                        1.4     1.4             1.1
Retail              1.1                        1.2     1.1             1.4
 
   D.   Conditions required for joint use parking. All joint use parking
arrangements are subject to the following conditions:
   1.   The building or use for which the application is being made to utilize
the off-street parking facilities provided by another use shall be located
within 300 feet of the parking facilities.
   2.   The applicant shall demonstrate that there is no substantial conflict
in the hours of operation between the two buildings or uses which will impede
adequate parking provision for which the joint use parking arrangement is
proposed.
   3.   A properly drawn legal agreement executed by the parties concerned for
a joint use of off-street parking facilities, shall be approved by the Director
and recorded with the County Recorder.
   4.   Joint use parking arrangements shall be binding with both properties
for the duration of both original principal uses.
(Ord. 1397.17.59, 2022)
17.56.280 Use of on-street parking to meet parking requirements.
   A.   Replacement of off-street required spaces with on-street and public
spaces permitted. Uses may utilize on-street parking spaces and spaces in
public parking lots to meet minimum required number of off-street spaces if the
following conditions are met:
   1.   Use is located within the Downtown General Plan land use category.
   2.   All spaces are located within 1,000 feet of the principal use.
   3.   Reasonable access is provided for pedestrians from the on-street
parking space or public parking lot to the principal use.
   4.   The required number of accessible parking spaces are provided either
on-site or in adjacent street parking.
   5.   Parking arrangement is in accordance with parking plan approved by the
Director.
   B.   Total allowed replacement of required spaces with on-street parking. If
all conditions are met to allow off-street parking to be replaced with on-
street and public spaces, the following number of required spaces may be met by
on-street and public spaces:
   1.   Residential uses may utilize on-street and public spaces for up to 50%
of required parking spaces.
   2.   All Non-Residential Uses may utilize on-street and public spaces for up
to 100% of required parking spaces.
   C.   Exemptions for small existing non-residential structures. All non-
residential structures under 7,500 square feet in floor space, existing at the
time of adoption of this ordinance, may use on-street parking that complies
with this section to comply with the minimum parking standards outlined in this
chapter.
(Ord. 1397.17.59, 2022)
17.56.290 In-lieu fee structure for reduced parking minimums.
   A.   In-lieu fee structure for reduced parking minimums permitted. Parking
space minimum requirements may be reduced if an in-lieu fee is approved by the
City Traffic Engineer and the Director. An in-lieu fee must meet the following
conditions:
   1.   In-lieu fee shall be established by City Council.
   2.   The in-lieu fee paid for each space shall be dedicated to the future
provision of public parking in the Downtown General Plan land use category.
   3.   Agreement for in-lieu fee structure at a particular site must
demonstrate that reduced parking will not cause adverse impacts on surrounding
properties and parking areas, nor cause adverse impacts on the safety, health
or general welfare of surrounding community.
   4.   All in-lieu fees must be paid in-full before issuance of the building
permit for principal use.
(Ord. 1397.17.59, 2022)
Chapter 17.58
MISCELLANEOUS STORAGE STANDARDS AND HANDLING OF HAZARDOUS WASTE
Sections:
17.58.010   Glare and lighting facilities.
17.58.020   Surface-water ponding to be retained where possible.
17.58.030   Storage and exterior display requirements.
17.58.040   Exterior incineration or storage of trash prohibited.
17.58.050   Provision of refuse containers required.
17.58.060   Public-street frontage.
17.58.070   Emission of particulate matter to be in compliance.
17.58.080   Bulk storage to comply with certain requirements.
17.58.090   Discharge of hazardous waste to comply with certain requirements.
17.58.100   Emission of odors.
17.58.110   Emission of noise.
17.58.120   Electrical disturbance.
17.58.130   Liquid or solid waste.
17.58.140   Radioactivity.
17.58.010 Glare and lighting facilities.
   Any lighting used to illuminate an off-street parking area, sign or other
structure, shall be arranged so as to deflect light away from any adjoining
residential zone or from the public streets. In addition, all lighting
facilities shall comply with the city's Dark Sky Ordinance,
Chapter 15.48.
(Ord. 1178 § 6.12.1, 1987)
17.58.020 Surface-water ponding to be retained where possible.
   Natural ponding in areas shall be retained as much as possible or, if
necessary, enlarged or modified as directed by the city engineer to restrict
the off-site runoff; subject to city subdivision requirements for stormwater
runoff control, the city's Master Stormwater Drainage Study, or the Stormwater
Retention Ordinance.
(Ord. 1178 § 6.12.2, 1987)
17.58.030 Storage and exterior display requirements.
   All materials, supplies, merchandise or other similar matter not on display
for direct sale, rental or lease to the ultimate customer or user shall be
stored within the confines of a one hundred percent opaque wall or fence not
less than six feet tall. Merchandise which is offered for sale as described may
be displayed beyond the confines of a building in any general commercial
district, but the area occupied by the outdoor display shall not constitute a
greater number of square feet than ten percent of the ground floor area of the
building housing the principal use, unless such merchandise is a type
customarily displayed outdoors such as automobiles and garden supplies. No
storage of any type shall be permitted within the one-half of the required
front or side street setback nearest the street nor within any required
interior side or rear setback.
(Ord. 1178 § 6.12.3, 1987)
17.58.040 Exterior incineration or storage of trash prohibited.
   No exterior incineration of trash or garbage is permissible. No exterior
storage of trash or garbage is permissible except in an accessory building
enclosed by walls and a roof or in closed containers within a totally screened
area.
(Ord. 1178 § 6.12.4, 1987)
17.58.050 Provision of refuse containers required.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or developer of all new single-family
residential construction and development within the city, when such development
is not subject to the provisions of the city subdivision ordinance with respect
to refuse containers, to provide at his/her expense refuse containers which
shall become the property of the city. The type of such containers shall be
approved by the city engineer.
(Ord. 1178 § 6.12.5, 1987)
17.58.060 Public street frontage.
   Except as otherwise allowed or required by this title, no lot shall contain
any building unless such lot abuts for at least fifty feet on a public street
or private street approved as part of a city approved Planned Area Development.
(Ord. 1178 § 6.12.6, 1987)
17.58.070 Emission of particulate matter to be in compliance.
   The emission of smoke, dust and other particulate matter shall be in
compliance with the county bureau of air pollution standards as regulated by
the county health services department.
(Ord. 1178 § 6.12.7, 1987)
17.58.080 Bulk storage to comply with certain requirements.
   All uses associated with bulk storage of all gasoline, liquid fertilizer,
chemicals, flammable and similar liquids shall comply with Uniform Building and
Fire Code requirements and county regulations.
(Ord. 1178 § 6.12.8, 1987)
17.58.090 Discharge of hazardous waste to comply with certain requirements.
   Discharge of hazardous waste, chemicals or wastewater will be subject to
Arizona Department of Health Services, Division of Environmental Health
Standards.
(Ord. 1178 § 6.12.9, 1987)
17.58.100 Emission of odors.
   The emission of odors by any use shall be in compliance with city standards
and regulations.
(Ord. 1178 § 6.12.10, 1987)
17.58.110 Emission of noise.
   The emission of noise from any use shall be in compliance with city
standards and regulations.
(Ord. 1178 § 6.12.11, 1987)
17.58.120 Electrical disturbance.
   No activity shall be permitted which causes electrical disturbances
affecting the operation of any equipment located beyond the property line of
the activity.
(Ord. 1178 § 6.12.12, 1987)
17.58.130 Liquid or solid waste.
   No discharge at any point into any public or private disposal system or
stream, or into the ground, materials in such a way, nature or temperature as
can contaminate any water supply or otherwise cause the emission of dangerous
or objectionable elements, except in accordance with the standards approved by
the Arizona Health Department.
(Ord. 1178 § 6.12.13, 1987)
17.58.140 Radioactivity.
   The use shall conform to the regulations of the Arizona Atomic Energy
Commission with regard to sources of ionizing, radiation and radioactive
materials, and to any other applicable city, county and state regulations.
(Ord. 1178 § 6.12.14, 1987)
Chapter 17.60
HOME OCCUPATIONS
Sections:
17.60.010   In general.
17.60.020   Purpose of provisions.
17.60.030   Terms and conditions.
17.60.040   Examples of qualifying uses.
17.60.050   Prohibited uses.
17.60.010 In general.
   A home occupation is an accessory use of a dwelling unit, conducted entirely
within the dwelling unit, carried on by one or more persons, all of whom reside
within the dwelling unit, and where no persons are employed other than resident
and domestic help; anywhere the use is clearly incidental and secondary to the
use of the dwelling for residence purposes and does not change the character
thereof or adversely affect the uses permitted in the residential district of
which it is part. There shall be no outside storage of any kind; any indoor
storage, construction, alterations or electrical or mechanical equipment used
shall not change the fire rating of the structure or the fire district in which
it is located. The use may increase vehicular traffic flow and parking by no
more than one additional vehicle at a time. It shall not cause an increase in
the use of one or more utilities (water, sewer or garbage) so that the combined
total use for dwelling and home occupation purposes of one or more utilities
exceeds the average for residences in the neighborhood. A home occupation
permit may be approved for a local historic landmark to allow a use that does
not meet all of the conditions of Section
17.60.030, upon securing a conditional use permit, per the procedures as
outlined in
Chapter 17.68, Article II of this code. However, such use shall be reviewed and
favorably recommended by the historic preservation commission prior to
consideration of approval by the planning and zoning commission.
(Ord. 1397.17.10 § 2, 1993)
17.60.020 Purpose of provisions.
   It is the intent of this chapter to eliminate as home occupations all uses
except those that conform to the standards set forth in this chapter. In
general, a home occupation is an accessory use so located and conducted that
the average neighbor, under normal circumstances, would not be aware of its
existence. The standards for home occupations in this chapter are intended to
ensure compatibility with other permitted uses and with the residential
character of the neighborhood, and a clearly secondary or incidental status in
relation to the residential use of the main building as the criteria for
determining whether a proposed accessory use qualifies as a home occupation.
(Ord. 1178 § 6.13.2, 1987)
17.60.030 Terms and conditions.
   A.   Home occupations are permitted accessory uses in residential zones only
so long as all the following conditions are observed:
   1.   Such occupation shall be conducted solely by resident occupants in
their residence;
   2.   No more than one room or twenty-five percent of the gross area of one
floor of the residence, whichever is less, shall be used for such purpose. Use
of accessory buildings or garages for these purposes is prohibited;
   3.   No use shall require internal or external alterations or involve
construction features or the use of electrical or mechanical equipment that
would change the fire rating of the structure or the fire district in which the
structure is located;
   4.   No home occupation shall cause an increase in the use of any one or
more utilities (water, sewer, garbage, etc.) so that the combined total use for
dwelling and home occupation purposes exceeds the average for residences in the
neighborhood;
   5.   There shall be no outside storage of any kind related to the home
occupation;
   6.   The use may increase vehicular traffic flow and parking by no more than
one additional vehicle at a time;
   7.   No use shall create noise, dust, vibration, smell, smoke, glare,
electrical interference, fire hazard, or any other hazard or nuisance to any
greater or more frequent extent than that usually experienced in an average
residential occupancy in the district in question under normal circumstances
wherein no home occupation exists;
   8.   No home occupation shall be allowed to post any visible advertising or
sign on the premises.
   B.   Complaints by citizens or residents may be cause for termination of the
home occupation.
(Ord. 1178 § 6.13.3, 1987)
17.60.040 Examples of qualifying uses.
   The following are typical examples of uses which can be conducted within the
limits of the restrictions established in this section and thereby qualify as
home occupations. Uses which may qualify as “home occupations” are not limited
to those named in this section (nor does the listing of a use in this section
automatically qualify as a home occupation): accountant; architect; artist;
attorney-at-law; author; consultant; dressmaking; individual stringed-
instrument instruction; individual tutoring; insurance; millinery; preserving
and home cooking; realtor.
(Ord. 1178 § 6.13.4, 1987)
17.60.050 Prohibited uses.
   The following uses by the nature of the investment of operation have a
pronounced tendency, once started, to rapidly increase beyond the limits
permitted for home occupations and thereby impair the use and value of a
residentially zoned area for residential purposes. Therefore, the following
uses shall not be permitted as home occupations: automobile repair services,
minor or major; barber shop; carpentry work; dance instruction; dental offices;
medical offices; painting of vehicles, trailers or boats; photo developing;
photo studios; private schools with organized classes; radio repair; television
repair; upholstering.
(Ord. 1397.17.36 § 17, 2009: Ord. 1178 § 6.13.5, 1987)
Chapter 17.62
HISTORIC PRESERVATION
Sections:
17.62.010   Purpose.
17.62.020   Applicability.
17.62.030   Historic preservation commission.
17.62.040   Definitions.
17.62.050   Recommendation on designation of landmarks or historic districts by
the historic preservation commission.
17.62.060   Historic designation procedures.
17.62.070   Decision on landmarks or historic designation by city council.
17.62.080   De-listing of landmarks or elimination of historic district
designations.
17.62.090   Modification of contributing or non-contributing properties or
landmark designation.
17.62.100   Certificate of no effect or certificate of appropriateness
required.
17.62.110   Certificate of no effect application procedure.
17.62.120   Exterior modifications eligible for a certificate of no effect.
17.62.125   Review criteria for a certificate of no effect.
17.62.130   Certificate of appropriateness application procedure.
17.62.140   Criteria for approval of a certificate of appropriateness.
17.62.145   Naming/renaming of city facilities.
17.62.150   Appeal procedure.
17.62.160   Maintenance and repair required.
17.62.170   Adaptive reuse.
17.62.180   Effective date.
17.62.190   Penalty.
17.62.010 Purpose.
   In accordance with the city’s general plan and this title, the city council
may from time to time initiate the process to designate a historic district,
local landmarks, or initiate de-listing, all as defined in Section
17.62.040, within the municipality. The historic classification changes are for
the purpose of meeting the land use needs of the residents of the city in
conformance with the city’s general plan.
   A.   It is hereby declared as a matter of public policy that the protection,
enhancement and perpetuation of landmarks and historic districts is necessary
to promote the economic, cultural, educational and general welfare of the
public.
   B.   Inasmuch as the identity of a people is founded on its past, and
inasmuch as Casa Grande has many significant historic, architectural and
cultural resources that constitute its heritage, this act is intended to:
   1.   Protect and enhance the landmarks and historic districts that represent
distinctive elements of the city’s historic, architectural and cultural
heritage;
   2.   Foster civic pride in accomplishments of the past;
   3.   Protect and enhance the city’s attractiveness to visitors and the
support and stimulus to the economy thereby provided; and
   4.   Ensure the harmonious, orderly and efficient growth and development of
the city.
(Ord. 1397.17.47 § 3 (part), 2017; Ord. 1397.17.32 2 (part), 2004)
17.62.020 Applicability.
   This chapter applies to properties located within an area designated as a
historic district and properties designated as individual local landmarks. The
enforcement of, amendments to, and the administration of this chapter shall be
accomplished in accordance with the recommendations contained in the city's
general plan, as adopted from time to time.
(Ord. 1397.17.47 § 3 (part), 2017)
17.62.030 Historic preservation commission.
   There is hereby established a historic preservation commission with the
duties and responsibilities as set forth in Article IV of
Chapter 17.08 of this title.
(Ord. 1397.17.47 § 3 (part), 2017; Ord. 1397.17.32 § 2 (part), 2004)
17.62.040 Definitions.
   The following definitions shall apply specifically and exclusively to this
chapter.
   “Adaptive reuse” means the re-purposing of historic buildings to new
economically viable uses.
   “Alteration” means any construction or change of the exterior of a building,
object, site or structure designated a landmark, or located within a historic
district. For buildings, objects or structures, “alteration” shall include, but
is not limited to, the changing of roofing or siding materials; changing,
eliminating or adding doors, door frames, windows, window frames, shutters,
fences, railings, porches, balconies, swings or other ornamentation, and the
changing of paint color. “Alteration” shall not include “ordinary repair and
maintenance” as defined below.
   “Building” means a structure created to shelter any form of human activity,
such as a house, barn, church, hotel or similar structure. “Building” may refer
to a historically-related complex, such as a courthouse and jail or a house and
barn.
   “Cemetery” means any site that contains at least one burial, marked or
previously marked, considered a dedicated cemetery under Arizona State
Statutes, even though suffering neglect or abuse.
   “Construction” means the act of adding an addition to a structure or the
erection of a new principal or accessory structure on a lot or property.
   “Contributing” means a classification applied to a building. site, structure
or object signifying the individual contribution the resource brings to the
community in representation of the qualities that give the community cultural,
historic, architectural or archeological distinction. A contributing
classification can be applied to either a landmark or to those properties
within a historic district that are of individual importance.
   “De-listing” means removing a landmark status from a building, site, sign,
structure or object, or the elimination of a historic district.
   “Demolition” means any act or process that partially or totally destroys a
landmark or a structure within a historic district.
   “Department” means the planning and development department of the city of
Casa Grande.
   “Design guideline” means a specific type of design criteria approved by the
historic preservation commission, to be used to inform owners of landmark
buildings, and buildings located within a historic district of the construction
techniques that can be used in alteration, construction or demolition
activities to achieve compliance with required certificate of appropriateness
review criteria.
   “Director” means the director of the planning and development department, or
his or her designee.
   “Historic district” means an area with definable boundaries designated as a
“historic district” by the city council, and in which a substantial number of
the properties, sites, structures or objects have a high degree of cultural,
historic, architectural or archeological significance and integrity.
   “HPC” means the historic preservation commission.
   “Landmark” means a property, site, structure or object that is individually
designated by the city council to be worthy of rehabilitation, restoration and
preservation because of its exceptional cultural, historic, architectural or
archeological significance to the city.
   “New floor area” refers to any change in use to an existing eligible
building proposed for adaptive reuse, located within the confines of the
existing interior portion of the exterior walls and roof.
   “Non-contributing” means a designation applied to a site, structure or
object within a historic district, indicating that it is not a representation
of the qualities that give the historic district cultural, historic,
architectural or archeological significance as embodied in the criteria for
designating a historic district.
   “Ordinary maintenance and repair” means regular, customary or usual care,
reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing building, structure or
object, for the purposes of preserving the property and maintaining it in safe
and sanitary condition.
   “Owner” means the property owner of record or their designated
representative.
   “Property” means land and improvements identified as a separate lot for
purposes of city subdivision and zoning regulations.
   “Structure” means anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
a permanent or semi-permanent location on or in the ground, including, without
limitation, buildings, garages, fences, gazebos, advertising signs, billboards,
antennas, satellite-sending or -receiving dishes, and swimming pools.
(Ord. 1397.17.47 § 3 (part), 2017; Ord. 1397.17.32 § 2 (part), 2004)
17.62.050 Recommendation on designation of landmarks or historic districts by
the historic preservation commission.
   A.   The HPC may recommend to city council that an individual property,
site, sign, structure or object be designated as a landmark if it:
   1.   Possesses special character, historic or aesthetic interest or value as
part of the cultural, political, economic or social history of the locality,
region, state or nation; or
   2.   Is identified with historic personages; or
   3.   Embodies the distinguishing characteristics of an architectural style;
or
   4.   Is the work of a designer whose work has significantly influenced an
age; or
   5.   Because of a unique location or singular physical characteristic,
represents an established and familiar visual feature of a neighborhood; and
   6.   The owner of the property, site, sign, structure or object concurs with
the designation.
   B.   The HPC may recommend to the city council that a group of properties
has been designated as an historic district if it:
   1.   Contains several pieces of property that meet one or more of the
criteria for designation of a landmark; and
   2.   By reason of possessing such qualities, it constitutes a district
section of the city; and
   3.   The owners of more than 50% of the property within the boundary of the
proposed historic district concur with the designation.
(Ord. 1397.17.47 § 3 (part), 2017; Ord. 1397.17.32 § 2 (part), 2004)
17.62.060 Historic designation procedures.
   A.   The HPC shall hold a public hearing prior to designation of a landmark
or historic district.
   1.   Notice.
   a.   The HPC shall mail a notice of any proposed designation of a landmark
or historic district to the owner(s) of the proposed landmark, or owners of
real property within the proposed historic district, as well as all property
owners within 300 feet of the landmark or district boundary. The notice shall
describe the proposed designation and the date, time and location of the public
hearing to be held by the HPC.
   b.   Notice shall be published at least once in a newspaper of general
circulation at least 15 days prior to the date of public hearing.
   2.   The HPC shall hold a public hearing on the designation, at which time
an opportunity will be provided for interested persons to present their views.
The testimony or documentary evidence at the hearing will become part of a
record regarding the historic, architectural or cultural importance of the
proposed landmark or historic district. The public hearing record may also
contain staff reports, public comments, or other evidence offered during the
hearing.
   B.   The HPC shall recommend to city council that the designation be
approved, approved with conditions, or denied. The HPC may postpone taking
action on the designation; however, any postponement shall be limited to a
maximum of 75 calendar days. This period may be extended with the written
permission of the applicant. In the event it does not make a recommendation
within this timeline, the HPC will be deemed to have recommended denial to the
city council.
   C.   All decisions of the HPC shall specify how the designation complies or
does not comply with the applicable review criteria. This requirement may be
met by the minutes of the meeting if the recommendation is for approval, or may
be met by a letter by the chairman, vice-chairman, or staff liaison assigned to
the HPC, outlining the relevant criteria and applicability.
   D.   A copy of the decision shall be communicated in writing to the
applicant, if any.
(Ord. 1397.17.47 § 3 (part), 2017)
17.62.070 Decision on landmarks or historic designation by the city council.
   A.   After receipt of the report and recommendation of the HPC, the city
council shall consider the proposed designation of a landmark or historic
district.
   B.   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be given in the time
and manner as specified in Subsection
17.62.060(A)(1) of this chapter. During any public hearing on the matter, the
city council shall consider oral or written statements from the applicant, city
staff, the public, and its own members.
   C.   The city council may approve, approve with conditions, postpone or deny
the proposed designation. Any postponement shall be limited to a maximum of 75
days. This period may be extended with the written permission of the applicant.
In the event it does not take action within this timeline, the city council
will be deemed to have determined that the designation was not in the best
interest of the city, and the item or application will be denied.
   D.   If approved, the city council shall adopt an ordinance that results in
the revision of the historic district or landmark map, and the ordinance shall
be recorded with Pinal County recorder’s office.
   E.   Signs designated as landmarks shall not be considered in determining a
site’s allocation of permitted attached or detached signs pursuant to the
city’s sign code.
(Ord. 1397.17.47 § 3 (part), 2017)
17.62.080 De-listing of landmarks or elimination of historic district
designation.
   A.   Initiation Process.
   1.   De-listing of a Landmark. The HPC, the city council or the property
owner may initiate the de-listing process for an individual landmark property
when the property has ceased to meet the criteria for a “landmark.”
   2.   Elimination of a District. The HPC or the city council may initiate
elimination of an existing historic district. Property owners of more than 50%
of the area of an existing historic district may initiate the elimination of a
historic district with the submittal of a petition.
   B.   Application. An application shall be filed with the department for the
de-listing or district elimination, which will be forwarded to the HPC for
consideration.
   C.   Review Criteria. The HPC shall hold a public hearing on all properly
filed de-listing or district elimination applications, and make a
recommendation in accordance with the following review criteria.
   1.   District Elimination. The district has lost its special characteristics
or historic features so that it no longer contributes to the historic character
of the community.
   2.   Landmark De-listing.
   a.   The landmark has lost its special characteristics or historic features
to the extent that it no longer contributes to the historic character of the
community; or
   b.   The building, structure, object, sign or site has been substantially
damaged or destroyed by a catastrophic event such that it no longer meets the
criteria for designation as a local landmark or placement on the state or
national historic register.
   D.   HPC Public Hearing Notification Requirements and Recommendation.
   1.   Notification of the public hearing shall be in accordance with
Subsection
17.62.060(A)(1).
   2.   The HPC shall recommend to city council that the application be
approved, approved with conditions, or denied. The HPC may postpone taking
action on the application; however, any postponement shall be limited to a
maximum of 75 days. This period may be extended with the written permission of
the applicant. In the event it does not make a recommendation within this
timeline, the HPC will be deemed to have recommended denial to the city
council.
   3.   All decisions of the HPC shall specify how the designation complies or
does not comply with the applicable review criteria. This requirement may be
met by the minutes of the meeting if the recommendation is for approval, or may
be met by a letter by the chairman, vice-chairman, or staff liaison assigned to
the HPC, outlining the relevant criteria and applicability.
   4.   A copy of the decision shall be communicated in writing to the
applicant.
   E.   City Council Consideration. City council shall hold a public hearing
and make a decision on all requests to eliminate a historic district or de-list
a landmark in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section
17.62.070.
(Ord. 1397.17.47 § 3 (part), 2017)
17.62.090 Modification of contributing or non-contributing property or landmark
designation.
   A.   An owner of a contributing property, located within an historic
district, may request that their property be re-classified as a non-
contributing property. This reclassification shall be automatically approved by
the director upon receipt of a completed application requesting the re-
classification.
   B.   An owner of a non-contributing property, located within an historic
district, may request that their property be re-classified as a contributing
property in accordance with the following procedures.
   1.   If the property had previously been classified as contributing, but re-
classified at the owner’s request, the change back to the contributing status
shall be automatic if no additions were constructed to the property while
classified as non-contributing. The reclassification shall be automatically
approved by the director upon receipt of a completed application.
   2.   If the property had never been classified as contributing, or was a
prior contributing property that had building additions added while classified
as non-contributing, then the application form requesting reclassification
shall be accompanied by a historic survey prepared by a qualified historic
preservation consultant. The application shall require review and approval by
the HPC.
   C.   Upon complete destruction or demolition of a contributing property, it
shall be automatically reclassified as a non-contributing property, and any
landmark designation shall be automatically removed by administrative action of
the director.
(Ord. 1397.17.47 § 3 (part), 2017)
17.62.100 Certificate of no effect or certificate of appropriateness required.
   A.   No modifications to the exterior paint color may be made to a non-
contributing property until a certificate of no effect is approved.
   B.   No person shall carry out any exterior alteration, restoration,
reconstruction, demolition, new construction, or moving of a landmark, or a
contributing property within a historic district; nor shall any person make any
material change in the appearance of such a property, including windows, doors,
security doors, roofs, light fixtures, signs, sidewalks, fences, steps, paving
or other exterior elements visible from a public street, which affect the
appearance and cohesiveness of the historic landmark or historic district,
without first obtaining a certificate of no effect from the department or a
certificate of appropriateness from the HPC.
   C.   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the city from undertaking
any abatement activities pursuant to Title 8 of this code or from requiring the
city to obtain a certificate of no effect or a certificate of appropriateness
for any abatement undertaken pursuant to Title 8.
(Ord. 1397.17.47 § 3 (part), 2017; Ord. 1397.17.32 2 (part), 2004)
17.62.110 Certificate of no effect application procedure.
   A.   Prior to the commencement of any work requiring a certificate of no
effect, the owner shall file an application for such a certificate with the
department.
   B.   No permit shall be issued for such proposed work until a certificate of
no effect has first been issued by the department. The certificate of no effect
required by this act shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of, any permit
that may be required by any other city ordinance, rule or regulation.
   C.   The director shall approve, approve with modifications, request
additional information, or refer the certificate of no effect within ten
business days after submission of a complete application.
   1.   A copy of any decision shall be communicated in writing to the
applicant.
   2.   If the decision is to request additional information, modify the
application, or deny the application, a written explanation, setting for the
basis of the decision, shall be communicated in writing to the applicant.
   3.   If a certificate of no effect is referred, within 30 days the
application will be forwarded to the historic preservation commission for
consideration as a certificate of appropriateness.
(Ord. 1397.17.47 § 3 (part), 2017; Ord. 1397.17.32 § 2 (part), 2004)
17.62.120 Exterior modifications eligible for a certificate of no effect.
   A.   Changing of exterior paint colors on a non-contributing property.
   B.   The following exterior modifications to contributing or landmark
properties shall be considered minor work that is eligible for review under a
certificate of no effect.
   1.   Re-painting to a color like or similar to the existing exterior paint
color.
   2.   Re-roofing with materials that are similar in color and materials to
existing roofing.
   3.   Installing or replacing any of the following:
   a.   Exterior light fixtures;
   b.   Windows that are similar in design to existing windows;
   c.   Doors that are similar in design to existing doors;
   d.   Security screen doors;
   e.   Sun shades to windows;
   f.   Solar panels.
   4.   Other similar work of a minor nature.
(Ord. 1397.17.47 § 3 (part), 2017)
17.62.125 Review criteria for a certificate of no effect.
   The director shall issue a certificate of no effect if:
   A.   It is determined to be compatible with the historic character of the
subject property, as well as with the historic character of the surrounding
district, if applicable.
   B.   In any case the proposed work will not diminish, eliminate or adversely
affect the historic character of the landmark, subject property, or district.
   C.   Prior, unapproved exterior alterations shall not be used as a basis for
certificate of no effect approval.
(Ord. 1397.17.47 § 3 (part), 2017; Ord. 1397.17.32 2 (part), 2004)
17.62.130 Certificate of appropriateness application procedure.
   A.   Prior to the commencement of any work requiring a certificate of
appropriateness, the owner shall file an application for such a certificate
with the department. The application shall not be required in the case of a
certificate of no effect that is referred to the HPC. Certificate of
appropriateness applications for demolition of unsafe structures may be
initiated by the director or the property owner. Notices of proposed
certificate of appropriateness applications shall be mailed to surrounding
property owners within 300 feet of the subject property, informing them of the
opportunity to review and comment on the application.
   B.   No permit shall be issued for such proposed work until a certificate of
appropriateness has first been issued by the HPC. The certificate of
appropriateness shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of, any permit that
may be required by any other city ordinance, rule or regulation.
   C.   The HPC shall notice and hold a public hearing on the application in
accordance with the procedures set forth in Subsection
17.62.060(A).
   D.   The HPC shall approve, approve with conditions, postpone, request
additional information, or deny the certification of appropriateness. Any
postponement shall be limited to a maximum of 75 days. This period may be
extended with the written permission of the applicant. In the event the HPC
does not make a recommendation within this timeline, the HPC will be deemed to
have approved the application.
   E.   All decisions of the HPC shall be communicated to the applicant in
writing, and specify whether the application was found to be in compliance with
the relevant certificate of appropriateness review criteria. This requirement
may be met by the minutes of the meeting if the recommendation is for approval,
or may be met by a letter by the chairman, vice-chairman or staff liaison
assigned to the HPC, outlining the relevant criteria and applicability. All
decisions shall also be communicated by the director to the city council.
(Ord. 1397.17.47 § 3 (part), 2017; Ord. 1397.17.32 2 (part), 2004)
17.62.140 Criteria for approval of a certificate of appropriateness.
   A.   In its review of a certificate of appropriateness application, the HPC
decision shall be based upon the following principles of compatibility.
   1.   Properties that contribute to the character of the historic district
shall be retained, with their historic features altered as little as possible.
   2.   New exterior construction shall be compatible with the district in
which it is located.
   3.   Any exterior alteration of existing historic landmark properties shall
be compatible with their historic character.
   B.   In applying the principles of compatibility, the HPC shall consider the
following factors:
   1.   The general design, character and appropriateness of the proposed
alteration or new construction;
   2.   The scale of proposed alteration or new construction in relation to the
property itself, surrounding properties, and the neighborhood;
   3.   The texture, materials and color, and their relation to similar
features of other properties in the neighborhood;
   4.   Visual compatibility with surrounding properties, including proportion
of the property’s front facade, proportion and arrangement of windows and other
openings with the facade, roof shape, and the rhythm of spacing of properties
on streets, including setback;
   5.   The importance of historic, architectural or other features to the
significance of the property; and
   6.   As a guide to rehabilitation work, the commission shall utilize the
current edition of the Secretary of the Interior’s standards for
rehabilitation.
   C.   In considering an application for a certificate of appropriateness for
a contributing property, the HPC shall consider the following criteria and
economic conditions.
   1.   For applications involving alterations to the exterior of the building
or signs, the following shall apply:
   a.   The cost of the required modifications to the materials, product or
design proposed by the applicant. The cost shall include materials, labor,
maintenance, water and energy.
   b.   Historic landmark signs located on the premises do not count toward the
maximum total sign area.
   2.   For applications involving the demolition of a structure, the following
shall apply:
   a.   The property is incapable of earning a reasonable return, regardless of
whether that return represents the most profitable return possible;
   b.   The property cannot be adapted for any other use, whether by the
current owner or by a purchaser, that could result in a reasonable return;
   c.   Efforts have been made to find a purchaser interested in preserving the
property; and
   d.   The applicant has consulted in good faith with the department, local
preservation groups, and interested parties, in a diligent effort to seek an
alternative that will result in preservation of the property.
   D.   Prior, unapproved exterior alterations shall not be used as a basis for
certificate of appropriateness approval.
   E.   In reviewing an application for a certificate of appropriateness, the
HPC shall not consider changes to interior spaces, but shall encourage property
owner(s) to maintain any interior features that may have historical interest.
   F.   No member of the HPC shall advise or express an opinion about a
proposed certificate of appropriateness outside of a regular meeting.
(Ord. 1397.17.47 § 3 (part), 2017; Ord. 1397.17.32 § 2 (part), 2004)
17.62.145 Naming/re-naming of city facilities
   A.   The historic preservation commission shall conduct a public hearing in
regard to all naming and renaming proposals. The commission shall give notice
of public hearings in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section
17.62.060.
   B.   The historic preservation commission shall only accept proposals for
naming opportunities when council determines there is a naming opportunity
available, or the historic preservation commission may submit for council’s
approval a naming opportunity.
   C.   If the naming opportunity affects any other city board, i.e. naming of
a park, the historic preservation commission will refer the naming proposal to
the specific board that has jurisdiction for the facility for their
recommendation. This commission will consider this recommendation at the public
hearing held pursuant to subsection A above.
   D.   After holding the public hearing, and considering any recommendations
from other boards, the historic preservation commission shall use the criteria
as adopted by city council pursuant to Section
17.08.170(J) to make a recommendation to City Council concerning the naming/
renaming of the city facility.
(Ord. 1397.17.57 § 2, 2022
17.62.150 Appeal procedure.
   A.   The applicant may appeal a decision by the HPC to the city council. The
city council may review the record of proceedings before the HPC, but city
council review and decision will be de novo on all matters.
   B.   Any appeal application shall be filed within 30 days after the date of
the HPC decision and not thereafter.
   C.   No building permit or demolition permit shall be issued unless the city
council has made a final decision to approve the appeal.
   D.   The city council shall hold a public hearing on the appeal application
within 60 days of filing an appeal application that has been determined to be
administratively complete. The notice and procedures for the hearing shall be
in accordance with the provisions of Subsection
17.62.060(A)(1).
   1.   If the appeal is denied, the city council’s decision shall state the
reasons for the denial.
   2.   A copy of any decision shall be communicated in writing to the
applicant.
(Ord. 1397.17.47 § 3 (part), 2017; Ord. 1397.17.32 2 (part), 2004)
17.62.160 Maintenance and repair required.
   A.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the ordinary
maintenance and repair of any exterior architectural feature of a landmark or
property within a historic district, which does not involve a change in design,
material, color or outward appearance.
   B.   No owner or person with an interest in real property designated as a
landmark or included within a historic district shall permit the property to
fall into a serious state of disrepair so as to result in the deterioration of
any exterior architectural feature that would, in the judgment of the director,
produce a detrimental effect upon the character of the historic district as a
whole, or the life and character of the property itself. Examples of such
deterioration include:
   1.   Deterioration of exterior walls or other vertical supports;
   2.   Deterioration of roofs or other horizontal members;
   3.   Deterioration of exterior chimneys;
   4.   Deterioration or crumbling of exterior stucco or mortar;
   5.   Ineffective waterproofing of exterior walls, roofs or foundations,
including broken windows or doors;
   6.   Deterioration of any feature so as to create a hazardous condition that
could lead to the claim that demolition is necessary for the public safety.
   C.   Upon making a determination that a person has violated subsection B of
this section, the director shall order, in writing, the correction of any
violation. Such order shall state the nature of the violation, the provision
violated, and the time by which the violation must be corrected. A decision of
the director may be appealed to the board of adjustment in accordance with
Article VI of
Chapter 17.68 of this title.
(Ord. 1397.17.47 § 3 (part), 2017; Ord. 1397.17.32 2 (part), 2004)
17.62.170 Adaptive reuse.
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of adaptive reuse is to provide flexibility in the
development standards applicable to landmarks or commercially zoned properties
located within a historic district. This process is intended to provide
incentives that allow these types of buildings to be modified so that they can
remain as economically viable uses while preserving their historical integrity.
   B.   Adaptive reuse proposals shall either be considered a minor or major
adaptive reuse, as determined by the following.
      1.   Minor Adaptive Reuse. Adaptive reuse of a landmark or commercially
zoned properties shall be minor if the adaptive reuse proposal:
         a.   Is to convert a non-residential use to another use;
         b.   Proposes a structural modification that results in the addition
of net floor area not to exceed 25% of the square footage of the structure
existing as of the effective date established in Section
17.62.180; or
         c.   Proposes an increase in height beyond the maximum height
permitted in the zoning district by no more than 25% of the structure existing
as of the effective date established in Section
17.62.180.
      2.   Major Adaptive Reuse. Adaptive reuse of a landmark or commercially
zoned properties shall be major unless specifically designated as a minor
adaptive reuse.
   C.   Development Standards
      1.   Minor Adaptive Reuse.
         a.   Setbacks.
            i.   Structural additions shall be allowed to encroach into the
minimum setbacks of the zoning district in which they are located without the
need for a variance or administrative allowance, as long as the additions do
not encroach into the required setbacks more than the existing structure does
as of the effective date established in Section
17.62.180.
            ii.   Structural additions proposed to be located closer to the
property boundaries than the existing structure may encroach into the minimum
setbacks without the need for a variance, subject to approval of an
administrative allowance in accordance with Subsection
17.62.170(C)(3).
         b.   Height.
            i.   Structural additions shall be allowed to exceed the maximum
height of the zone district in which they are located without the need for a
variance or administrative allowance, as long as the additions do not exceed
the maximum building height more than the existing structure does as of the
effective date established in Section
17.62.180.
            ii.   Structural additions proposed to have a height exceeding the
height of the existing structure may exceed the maximum building height without
the need for a variance, subject to approval of an administrative allowance in
accordance with Subsection
17.62.170(C)(3).
         c.   Parking.
            i.   New parking spaces shall not be required, provided that the
number of all existing on-site spaces is maintained and not reduced.
            ii.   The location and construction of new parking areas must be
designed and located in accordance with the requirements of the zoning
ordinance, except that both tandem parking spaces and those that back directly
out into the street may be approved if the director finds them to be safe and
appropriate.
         d.   Access and Driveways. Existing access and driveways shall be
permitted to remain despite the adaptive reuse, unless the city engineer, or
his or her designee, determines that the existing access points or driveways
create an unsafe traffic condition.
         e.   Open Space and Landscaping. The amount of open space and
landscaping required may be reduced or an alternative compliance approach used,
which may be approved by the director when it is determined that all reasonable
attempts to fulfill the requirements have been exhausted, and the development
is not able to accommodate the landscape or open space requirements due to the
urban infill or historic characteristic of the development site.
         f.   Nonconforming Uses or Structures. Notwithstanding
Chapter 17.64, minor adaptive reuse buildings or structures classified as legal
nonconforming uses may be continued, expanded, modified or relocated in
accordance with Subsection
17.62.170(C)(1), without losing their status as legal nonconforming uses,
solely as a result of the minor adaptive reuse.
      2.   Major Adaptive Reuse.
         a.   Setbacks. May be granted up to 20% reduction in minimum required
setbacks, subject to approval of an administrative allowance in accordance with
Subsection
17.62.170(C)(3).
         b.   Height. May be granted up to 10% increase in maximum building
height, subject to approval of an administrative allowance in accordance with
Subsection
17.62.170(C)(3).
         c.   Parking. Parking requirements may be reduced by up to 20%,
subject to approval of an administrative allowance in accordance with
Subsection
17.62.170(C)(3).
         d.   Open Space and Landscaping. Open space and landscaping
requirements may be reduced or modified in accordance with Subsection
17.62.170(C)(1)(e).
      3.   Administrative Allowance Procedures. Relief from specific setback
and parking requirements, as well as limited height increases, may be granted
by the historic preservation commission in conjunction with the review of a
certificate of appropriateness associated with an adaptive reuse application,
upon finding the following criteria are met:
         a.   Relief from the requirements is necessary to make the adaptive
reuse project economically viable;
         b.   The modification can achieve compatibility with the surrounding
development;
         c.   The proposed relief will allow the new construction to complement
the historical character of the development; and
         d.   The allowance will not result in a material adverse impact to
surrounding properties.
   D.   Construction Standards. All structures proposed for adaptive reuse
require a building permit, and must comply with the city’s adopted building
codes in place at the time of the issuance of a building permit.
(Ord. 1397.17.47 § 3 (part), 2017)
17.62.180 Effective date. 
   The provisions of this chapter shall be effective on December 6, 2017.
(Ord. 1397.17.47 § 3 (part), 2017; Ord. 1397.17.32 3, 2004)
 17.62.190 Penalty.
   A.   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor, and shall be punished in accordance
with Section
1.08.010 of this code; provided, however, that prior to any prosecution for a
violation of this chapter, the city must have followed the procedures set forth
in Sections
17.72.020 and
17.72.030.
   B.   Any person who demolishes, alters, constructs or permits a designated
property to fall into a serious state of disrepair in violation of this chapter
shall be required to restore the property and its site to its appearance prior
to the violation.
   1.   Any action to enforce this subsection may be brought by the city
attorney.
   2.   This civil remedy shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of, any
criminal prosecution.
(Ord. 1397.17.47 § 3 (part), 2017; Ord. 1397.17.32 4, 2004)
Chapter 17.64
NONCONFORMING USES
Sections:
17.64.010   Nonconforming uses and structures in general.
17.64.020   Nonconforming parking lots
17.64.030   Nonconforming lot of record.
17.64.010 Nonconforming uses and structures in general.
   A.   Any structure or use lawfully existing upon the effective date of the
ordinance codified in this title may be continued at the size and in the manner
of operation existing upon such date except as hereinafter specified.
   B.   The right to operate and maintain a nonconforming use shall terminate
when the structure or structures housing such use are removed, razed or
remodeled to the extent of fifty percent of the structure's fair market value
as determined by the last equalized assessment roll of the county, unless such
condition was created as described in subsection D of this section.
   C.   When any lawful and nonconforming use of any structure or land in any
district has been changed to a conforming use, it shall not hereafter be
changed to any nonconforming use.
   D.   Whenever a lawful nonconforming use of a building or structure has been
damaged by fire, flood, explosion, earthquake, war, riot, or act of God, to an
extent greater than fifty percent of its originally appraised value, it shall
not be reconstructed, but such property shall revert to a conforming use.
   E.   Whenever a lawful nonconforming use of a building or structure or land
is discontinued for a period of ninety days, any future use of the building or
structure or land shall be in conformity with the provisions of this title.
   F.   Normal maintenance of a building or other structure containing or
related to a lawful nonconforming use is permitted, including necessary
structural repairs provided such structural repairs do not enlarge or intensify
the nonconforming use.
   G.   A lawful nonconforming use shall not be charged except in conformance
with the use requirements of the zone in which it is located.
   H.   Alterations may be made to a structure or building containing lawful
nonconforming residential units when they will improve the liveability thereof,
providing they will not increase the number of dwelling units.
(Ord. 1178 § 6.14.1—6.14.8, 1987)
17.64.020 Nonconforming parking lots.
   A.   Continuation. Legally existing parking areas which have become
nonconforming due to changes in code requirements may be continued, except as
provided in Subsection
17.64.020.B.
   B.   Proposals Which Require Conformance to Existing Standards.
   1.   Parking and maneuvering areas which conform with the requirements of
Chapter 17.56 of this code shall be provided for:
   a.   Construction of a new building.
   b.   Building additions which trigger the requirement to provide additional
on-site parking.
   c.   Building occupancy and/or tenant changes where the new use requires the
provision of more on-site parking than the previous legally permitted use.
   d.   Enlargement of an existing nonconforming parking lot.
(Ord. 1397.17.41 § 1, 2012)
17.64.030 Nonconforming lot of record.
   A.   A nonconforming lot of record may be used to construct residential
structures as follows:
   1.   In the RR, SH, UR, R-1, and R-1a Zones, a single-family residence and
an ADU meeting the requirements of
17.52.105 shall be permitted.
   2.   In the R-2 Zone, the following residential uses are permitted:
   a.   Single-family residence
   b.   A single-family residence with an ADU meeting the requirements of
Section
17.52.105 that is an accessory to the single-family residence.
   c.   A duplex.
   3.   In the R-3 Zone, up to four multi-family dwelling units shall be
permitted.
   4.   In the R-4 Zone, the following residential uses are permitted:
   a.   A single-family residence.
   b.    A manufactured home.
   c.   A single-family residence with an ADU meeting the requirements of
Section
17.52.105 that is an accessory to the single-family residence.
   d.   A manufactured home with ADU meeting the requirements of Section
17.52.105 that is an accessory to the manufactured home.
   B.   The required front, side, and rear yard zone district setbacks for a
nonconforming lot of record shall be administratively reduced by an amount
proportional to the amount by which the lot width and/or lot depth fall below
the zoning district requirements. The reduction in the front and rear setbacks
shall be proportional to the lot depth and the side and corner side shall be
proportional to the lot width. Setback reductions beyond this degree shall be
determined by the board of adjustment in conjunction with the consideration of
variance applications. (Ord. 1397.17.63 § 1 (part), 2024; Ord. 1178 § 6.14.9,
1987)
Chapter 17.68
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES
Sections:
Article I. Procedures for Site Plan Approval.
17.68.010   Requirements and procedures.
17.68.020   Applicability of procedures.
17.68.030   Application for major site plan approval—Requirements.
17.68.040   Application for minor site approval—Requirements.
17.68.050   Notice of major site plan review.
17.68.060   Notice of minor site plan review.
17.68.070   Major site plan review—Consideration process.
17.68.080   Duration of site plan approval.
17.68.090   Procedure for amendment to site plans.
Article II. Procedure for Conditional Use Permit
17.68.100   In general.
17.68.110   Application required.
17.68.120   Planning and zoning considerations and findings.
17.68.130   Notification of commission action.
17.68.140   Appeals.
17.68.150   City council authority.
17.68.160   Violation.
17.68.170   Modifications to approved structures.
Article III. Procedure for Operating a Home Occupation
17.68.180   Notice of intent to operate required.
17.68.190   Complaints cause for termination when.
17.68.200   Appeals.
Article IV. Procedure for Temporary Use Permit
17.68.210   In general.
17.68.215   Temporary agricultural activity in certain zones.
17.68.220   Application and filing fee.
17.68.230   Decision.
17.68.240   Approval made subject to conditions.
Article V. Procedure for Planned Area Development (P.A.D.) Approval
17.68.250   In general.
17.68.260   Application requirements.
17.68.270   Concept plan submittal requirements.
17.68.280   Preliminary development submittal requirements.
17.68.290   Planning commission review and hearing.
17.68.300   City council consideration and hearing—Review and approval.
17.68.310   Final development plan.
17.68.320   Withdrawal of application.
17.68.330   Amendments to approval.
17.68.340   Denial of application.
Article VI. Procedure for Appeals to Board of Adjustment
17.68.350   Appeal authority.
17.68.355   Appeal application.
17.68.360   Stay of proceedings when.
17.68.370   Notice of hearing required.
17.68.380   Board of adjustment action on appeals.
17.68.390   Notice of board decision.
17.68.395   Appeal of a decision of the board of adjustment.
Article VII. Procedure for Issuance of Building Permits and Certificate of
Occupancy
17.68.400    In general.
17.68.410   Building permit application.
17.68.420   Certification of occupancy required prior to certain actions.
Article VIII. Amendment Procedure
17.68.430   In general.
17.68.440   Application requirements.
17.68.450   Notice of hearing.
17.68.460   Hearing and recommendation by planning and zoning commission when.
17.68.470   Hearing and decision by city council.
Article IX. Zoning and Zoning Code Amendment Procedures
17.68.480   In general.
17.68.490   Application requirements.
17.68.500   Application processing.
17.68.510   Housing statement.
17.68.520   Reserved.
17.68.530   Reserved.
17.68.540   Public protest against rezoning application.
17.68.550   Right-of-way dedication as condition when.
Article X. Protected Development Rights Plans
17.68.1000   Definitions.
17.68.1001   Protected Development Right Plan approvals.
17.68.1002   Effective date; exceptions.
17.68.1003   Submission procedures and requirements.
17.68.1004   Revocation for non-compliance.
17.68.1005   Duration of Protected Development Right Plan.
17.68.1006   Limitation on extent of Protected Development Right.
17.68.1007   Subsequent changes prohibited; exceptions.
17.68.1008   Council designation of development plan.
17.68.1009   Waiver may not be a condition of approval.
17.68.1010   Protected Development Right; exercise; agreements.
17.68.1011   Resolution of conflict.
Article I. Procedures for Site Plan Approval
17.68.010 Requirements and procedures.
   A.   For the purposes of this chapter, site plans may be classified as major
or minor site plans. All developments within the city, except individual
single-family and duplex residential units, shall be subject to this article. A
major site plan involves one or more of the following:
   1.   Four or more dwelling units in a multiple structure or structures;
   2.   Fifteen thousand or more square feet of:
   a.   Office space,
   b.   Retail commercial space,
   c.   Service commercial space,
   d.   Industrial space;
   3.   One or more new buildings on one existing, vacant site for:
   a.   Office use,
   b.   Retail commercial use,
   c.   Service commercial use,
   d.   Industrial use;
   4.   Twenty thousand or more square feet of exterior storage of materials or
goods;
   5.   Parking for more than eighty vehicles.
   B.   Any other site plan (except for a Planned Area Development) is
considered a minor site plan. Any Planned Area Development shall be reviewed
according to the regulations of Article V of this chapter. Minor site plans
shall be reviewed through the building permit application process.
   C.   The planning and zoning commission has the right to review, and require
revisions to any proposed major site plan. The purpose of this review is to
relieve demonstrable adverse impacts of the development upon public safety,
health, or welfare; to protect public investments in roads, drainage
facilities, sewage facilities, etc.; to conserve the value of buildings; and to
ensure that the regulations of the city are upheld.
   D.   Any needed variances for major or minor site plans must be appealed to
the board of adjustment.
(Ord. 1178.30 § 2 (part), 1990)
17.68.020 Applicability of procedures.
   A.   The procedures set out in this chapter shall apply to all R-2, R-3, R-
4, B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, I-1 and I-2 rezoning and all non-single family and
duplex development within the city.
   B.   For those rezoning requests that may not comply with the city general
plan the site plan shall be submitted in conjunction with the rezoning
application.
   C.   For those rezoning requests that may comply with the general plan the
site plan shall be submitted prior to any construction or development and may
be submitted with the rezoning application.
   D.   For those areas with desired zoning, the site plan shall be submitted
prior to any construction or development.
(Ord. 1178.30 § 2 (part), 1990)
17.68.030 Application for major site plan approval—Requirements.
   Applications for major site plan approval shall be on a form provided by the
zoning administrator. Major site plans shall be submitted at least twenty-one
days prior to the planning and zoning commission at which they will be heard.
The application shall be accompanied by the appropriate fee and development
plans showing sufficient information for the planning and zoning commission and
city staff to determine whether the proposed development will meet the
development requirements of the city. In all cases the application shall
contain the following:
   A.   General:
   1.   Name of project/development;
   2.   Location of project/development by street address;
   3.   Location map, including area within one-half mile of site;
   4.   Name and mailing address of developer/owner;
   5.   Name and mailing address of engineer/architect;
   6.   Date of plan preparation;
   7.   North point indicator;
   8.   Scale of not less than one inch to one hundred feet; and
   9.   Names and addresses of property owners within two hundred feet of site;
   B.   Site Plan, including:
   1.   Boundary line of property with dimensions;
   2.   Location, identification and dimension of existing and proposed data,
to a distance of one hundred feet unless otherwise stated:
   a.   Topographic contours at a minimum interval of two feet,
   b.   Adjacent streets and street rights-of-way to a distance of one hundred
fifty feet, except for sites adjacent to major arterial streets where the
distances shall be two hundred feet,
   c.   On-site streets and rights-of-way,
   d.   Ingress and egress points,
   e.   Traffic flow on-site,
   f.   Traffic flow off-site,
   g.   Utilities and utility rights-of-way or easements:
   i.   Electric,
   ii.   Natural gas,
   iii.   Telephone, cable TV,
   iv.   Water,
   v.   Sewer (sanitary treated effluent and storm),
   h.   Buildings and structures,
   i.   Parking facilities, including bicycle racks,
   j.   Water bodies,
   k.   Surface water holding ponds and drainage ditches,
   l.   Surface water drainage arrows,
   m.   Significant rock outcroppings,
   n.   Sidewalks, walkways, driveways, loading areas and docks, bikeways,
   o.   Provision for handicapped accessibility, including but not limited to
wheelchair ramps, parking spaces, hand rails, and curb openings in accordance
with A.R.S. 34-404 through 34-439,
   p.   Fences and walls,
   q.   Exterior signs,
   r.   Exterior refuse collection areas,
   s.   Exterior lighting,
   t.   Landscaping (detailed plan showing plantings, equipment, etc.),
   i.   Botanical and common names of vegetation to be used,
   ii.   Size of plantings at time of planting and at maturity,
   iii.   Areas to be irrigated;
   3.   Number of employee and non-employee parking spaces, existing and
proposed, and total square footage of each; and
   4.   Site statistics including site square footage, percent of site coverage
(building and parking), dwelling unit density, percent park or open space;
   5.   A reproducible copy of the site plan with appropriate signatures shall
be submitted upon approval.
   C.   Building Information (on-site):
   1.   Height above mean sea level of the lowest floor when the structure is
proposed to be located in a floodway or floodplain area;
   2.   Gross square footage of existing and proposed structures; and
   3.   Front, rear and side elevations, with a description of exterior
materials to be used.
   D.   Permits:
   1.   A listing of all required federal, state and city permits and status of
applications;
   2.   Certificate of one-hundred-year assured water supply;
   3.   Certificate showing compliance with minimum county and state water
quality standards.
(Ord. 1178.30 § 2 (part), 1990)
17.68.040 Application for minor site approval—Requirements.
   Applications for minor site plan approval shall be submitted with the
building permit application. The application must include scaled plans and
drawings showing sufficient information for city staff to determine whether the
proposed development will meet the development requirements of the city.
(Ord. 1178.30 § 2 (part), 1990)
17.68.050 Notice of major site plan review.
   A notice of major site plan review shall be mailed at least ten days prior
to the planning and zoning commission meeting to each owner of property
situated wholly or partly within two hundred feet of the property to which the
site plan relates. The zoning administrator shall be responsible for mailing
such notices. For the purpose of giving mailed notice, the zoning administrator
shall require the owner of the property affected to furnish the names and
addresses of all property owners within two hundred feet of the property.
(Ord. 1178.30 § 2 (part), 1990)
17.68.060 Notice of minor site plan review.
   A.   If the city staff shall determine that the proposed site plan will not
be detrimental to the health, safety, or welfare of the community nor will
cause traffic congestion or seriously depreciate surrounding property values
and the same time is in harmony with the purposes and intent of this chapter,
the plan for the area, and the general plan, the staff may grant such site plan
approval, and such conditions and safeguards may be imposed as they deem
necessary. Staff shall notify the planning and zoning commission at its next
regular meeting of any site plan approvals made by staff.
   B.   Minor site plan approval applications may be denied by city staff upon
finding and determination by the staff that the conditions required for
approval do not exist.
   C.   When a minor site plan approval application is denied by city staff, an
appeal may be taken to the planning and zoning commission. If unusual or
significantly difficult conditions exist which affect the site plan, the zoning
administrator may determine and require that the site plan be reviewed and
acted upon by the planning and zoning commission.
(Ord. 1178.30 § 2 (part), 1990)
17.68.070 Major site plan review—Consideration process.
   A.   In considering applications for major site plan approval under this
chapter, the planning and zoning commission shall consider the following:
   1.   Relationship of the plan elements to conditions both on and off the
property;
   2.   Conformance to the city's zoning ordinance;
   3.   Conformance to the city's general plan;
   4.   The impact of the plan on the existing and anticipated traffic and
parking conditions;
   5.   The adequacy of the plan with respect to land use;
   6.   Pedestrian and vehicular ingress and egress;
   7.   Building location and height;
   8.   Landscaping;
   9.   Lighting;
   10.   Provisions for utilities;
   11.   Site drainage;
   12.   Open space;
   13.   Loading and unloading areas;
   14.   Grading;
   15.   Signage;
   16.   Screening;
   17.   Setbacks; and
   18.   Other related matters.
   B.   The planning and zoning commission shall consider oral or written
statements from the applicant, the public, city staff members, or its own
members. It may question the applicant and approve, deny, or table the
development proposal. The application may not be tabled for more than two
regular meetings of the commission.
   C.   If the commission shall determine by motion that the proposed site plan
will not be detrimental to the health, safety, or welfare of the community nor
will cause traffic congestion or seriously depreciate surrounding property
values at the same time is in harmony with the purposes and intent of this
chapter, the plan for the area, and the comprehensive plan, the commission may
grant such site plan approval and impose conditions and safeguards as they deem
necessary.
   D.   Site plan approval applications may be denied by motion of the
commission when such motion or consent shall constitute a finding and
determination by the commission or staff that the conditions required for
approval do not exist.
   E.   A site plan which has been denied by the commission shall not be
reviewed by the council except upon written request by the applicant to the
city council within ten days of the commission's decision, and placed on next
available city council agenda. At such meeting, the council shall consider oral
or written statements from the applicant, city staff, and public and its own
members.
   F.   The council, upon reviewing the applicant's request for site plan
approval may then approve, deny, or table the site plan request. The request
may not be tabled more than two meetings.
(Ord. 1178.30 § 2 (part), 1990)
17.68.080 Duration of site plan approval.
   Site plan approval shall be valid for one year from its date of approval, or
until the zoning on a particular site lapses, whichever occurs first.
(Ord. 1178.30 § 2 (part), 1990)
17.68.090 Procedure for amendment to site plans.
   A.   Any amendment or modification to an approved site plan shall be
submitted for approval. All amendments shall be shown on a revised site plan
drawing.
   B.   Amendments to minor site plans shall be submitted to city staff who may
approve such amendment(s) if they determine that such amendments meet the
development requirements of the city.
   C.   Amendments to major site plans previously approved by the planning and
zoning commission may be approved by the planning director and the chairperson
of the commission upon finding by the planning director and chairperson of the
commission that the amended site plan is in substantial compliance with the
originally approved site plan. If it is determined that the amended site plan
is not in substantial compliance with the originally approved site plan, the
application shall be resubmitted and shall be subject to Sections
17.68.030,
17.68.050 and
17.68.070 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1178.30 § 2 (part), 1990)
Article II. Procedure for Conditional Use Permit
17.68.100 In general.
   Certain uses, while generally not suitable in a particular zoning district,
may, under certain circumstances, be acceptable. When such circumstances exist,
a conditional use permit may be granted. Conditions may be applied to the
issuance of the permit and periodic review may be required. The permit shall be
granted for a particular use and not for a particular person or firm. No
conditional use permit shall be granted for a use which is not specifically
designed as such in this chapter.
(Ord. 1178 § 7.5.1, 1987)
17.68.110 Application required.
   The person applying for a conditional use permit shall fill out and submit
to the zoning administrator the appropriate form together with the required
fee. The request for a conditional use permit shall follow the procedures and
applicable requirements for major site plans of Article I of this chapter.
(Ord. 1178 § 7.5.2, 1987)
17.68.120 Planning and zoning considerations and findings.
   A.   Within thirty days after the conclusion of the public hearing, the
commission shall approve, conditionally approve, or deny the conditional use
permit application.
   B.   The commission, in approving a conditional use permit, shall by
resolution adopted by an affirmative vote of not less than the majority of all
its voting members, find as follows:
   1.   That the site for the proposed use is adequate in size and topography
to accommodate the use, and all yards, spaces, walls and fences, parking,
loading and landscaping are adequate to properly relate the use with the land
and uses in the vicinity;
   2.   That the site for the proposed use relates to streets and highways
adequate in width and pavement type to carry the quantity and kind of traffic
generated by the proposed use;
   3.   That the proposed use will have no adverse effect upon the abutting
property;
   4.   That the proposed use shall be in conformance with the general plan;
   5.   That the conditions stated in the approval are deemed necessary to
protect the public health, safety and general welfare. The conditions may
include but are not limited to:
   a.   Regulation of use,
   b.   Special yards, spaces and buffers,
   c.   Special fences, solid fences and walls,
   d.   Surfacing of parking areas,
   e.   Requiring street, service road or alley dedications and improvements or
appropriate bonds,
   f.   Regulations of points of vehicular ingress and egress,
   g.   Regulation of signs,
   h.   Requiring maintenance of the grounds,
   i.   Regulation of noise, vibrations, odors,
   j.   Regulation of hours for certain activities,
   k.   Time period within which the proposed use shall be developed,
   l.   Duration of use,
   m.   Requiring the dedication of access rights, and
   n.   Other conditions as will make possible the development of the city in
an orderly and efficient manner;
   6.   The commission shall, in addition to any other conditions, impose the
following general conditions upon every conditional use permit granted:
   a.   The right to a use and occupancy permit shall be contingent upon the
fulfillment of all general and special conditions imposed by the conditional
use permit procedure,
   b.   That all of the special conditions shall constitute restrictions
running with the land and shall be binding upon the owner of the land, his
successors or assigns,
   c.   That all conditions specifically stated under any conditional use
listed in this chapter shall apply and be adhered to by the owner of the land,
his successors or assigns,
   d.   That all of the special conditions shall be consented to in writing by
the applicant,
   e.   That the resolution granting the application, together with all consent
forms, shall be recorded by the county recorder;
   7.   The commission shall, in addition to any other conditions, impose the
following conditions upon every conditional use permit granted for wireless
telecommunication facilities:
   a.   The setback requirements shall be thirty-five feet from any property
line, plus an additional one foot for every foot of height above thirty-five
feet,
   b.   The structure is to be designed, constructed and/or colored in order to
correspond with the aesthetic, view-shed and other characteristics of the area
in which they are to be placed,
   c.   Appropriate landscaping and other screening shall be required along any
street frontage,
   d.   Appropriate measures shall be used to screen any exposed mechanical
equipment such as, but not limited to, cables, etc.,
   e.   Placement of the facility shall be in conformance with any applicable
requirements of the city planning, building, fire, and engineering departments,
   f.   Placement of the facility shall be in conformance with any applicable
requirements of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and/or the Federal
Aviation Administration (FAA),
   g.   Where possible, service providers will be encouraged to co-locate
(share) their facilities on existing towers;
   8.   The commission shall, in addition to any other conditions, impose the
following conditions upon every conditional use permit granted for bed and
breakfast establishments:
   a.   The bed and breakfast establishment must be operator-occupied;
   b.   The length of guests' stays is limited to fifteen days within any
thirty-day period;
   c.   On-site (off-street), dust-free surfaced parking is to be provided on
the lot in the ratio of one space per potential guest room, plus two spaces for
the resident operator;
   d.   Construction and operation of a bed and breakfast establishment shall
comply with all applicable city of Casa Grande building, planning, fire and
engineering department requirements, plus any requirements of the Pinal County
Health Department and state of Arizona;
   e.   Detached signs are limited to one per parcel, and shall be a wall-
mounted or a low-profile, monument-style sign, not to exceed three feet in
height above grade, and not to exceed six square feet in area, designed and
constructed to complement building's exterior.
   C.   Applications for conditional use permits may be approved or denied by
motion of the commission. If an application is denied, the denial shall
constitute a finding that the applicant has not shown that the conditions
required for approval do exist. No application for a conditional use permit
which has been denied wholly or in part shall be resubmitted for a period of
six months from the date of the order of denial, except on grounds of new
evidence or proof of change of conditions found to be valid by the commission.
(Ord. 1397.17.16 § IV, 1997: Ord. 1397.17.14 § IX, 1996: Ord. 1178 § 7.5.3,
1987)
17.68.130 Notification of commission action.
   The applicant shall be notified in writing of the action taken by the
commission within seven days of its action. If the application has been
granted, the permit shall be issued upon the signature of the chairman of the
planning and zoning commission and the zoning administrator, and any
conditions, automatic termination date, or period of review shall be stated on
the permit.
(Ord. 1178 § 7.5.4, 1987)
17.68.140 Appeals.
   A.   A written appeal shall be taken to the city council by the applicant or
any person, firm, corporation, group or association owning real property within
one hundred fifty feet of the conditional use applicant's property, aggrieved
or affected by the decision of the commission with respect to any conditional
use.
   B.   The appeal shall be filed in duplicate with the zoning administrator
within ten days from the date of action by the commission.
   C.   The appeal shall specifically state the grounds therefore and wherein
the commission failed to conform to the requirements of these regulations,
appellate has otherwise been aggrieved or affected by the actions of the
commission.
   D.   The zoning administrator shall immediately transmit one copy of the
appeal to the commission.
   E.   The zoning administrator shall inspect the appeal for defects, and
validate the appeal within forty-eight hours of receipt. If the appeal is
defective in any particular for noncompliance, the zoning administrator shall
immediately send notice to applicant   of the fact and the type and nature of
the defect or defects.
(Ord. 1178 § 7.5.5, 1987)
17.68.150 City council authority.
   The city council may by resolution reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or
may modify any decision, determination or requirement of the commission, but
before doing so, the city council must set the matter for hearing, give notice
of the hearing as is provided in Section
17.68.520 of this chapter and must make a written finding of fact setting forth
wherein the Commission's findings were in error. A majority vote of the
membership of the council shall be required to grant in whole or in part any
appealed application for conditional use permit acted upon by the commission.
(Ord. 1178 § 7.5.6, 1987)
17.68.160 Violation.
   Violations to the conditions of a conditional use permit shall constitute a
violation of this chapter and shall be subject to the regulations of Sections
17.72.010 through
17.72.060 of this title.
(Ord. 1178 § 7.5.7, 1987)
17.68.170 Modifications to approved structures.
   Any proposed additions, enlargements or modifications of the structures
approved in any conditional use permit or any proposed extension of the use
into areas not approved in any such permit, shall be subject to Sections
17.68.030,
17.68.040,
17.68.060 and Article II of this chapter.
(Ord. 1178 § 7.5.8, 1987)
Article III. Procedure for Operating a Home Occupation
17.68.180 Notice of intent to operate required.
   Any individual applying for a business license with the intent of operating
the business from his/her home, shall acknowledge by signature his/her
understanding of the requirements and conditions of
Chapter 17.60 of this title.
(Ord. 1178 § 7.6.1, 1987)
17.68.190 Complaints cause for termination when.
   As per Section
17.60.030 of this title, complaints by citizens or residents may be cause for
termination of the home occupation. Upon receipt of a complaint, a home
occupation may be ordered terminated by the zoning administrator upon a finding
that the home occupation is incompatible or disruptive to the neighborhood in
which it is located.
(Ord. 1178 § 7.6.2, 1987)
17.68.200 Appeals.
   Any person may appeal the zoning administrator's action to the board of
adjustment within fifteen days as per Article II of this chapter.
(Ord. 1178 § 7.6.3, 1987)
Article IV. Procedure for Temporary Use Permit
17.68.210 In general.
   Uses permitted subject to special temporary use permit are those temporary
uses which are required for the proper function of the community or are
temporarily required in the process of establishing a permitted use, or
constructing a public facility. Such uses shall be so conducted that they will
not be detrimental in any way to the surrounding properties or to the
community. Uses permitted subject to a special temporary use permit may
include:
   A.   Christmas tree sales;
   B.   Carnivals, circuses, special events of not over seventy-two consecutive
hours;
   C.   Garage sales (limited to sixty consecutive hours);
   D.   Parking and storage of earth moving or construction equipment;
   E.   Storage of materials incidental to the carrying on of a public works
project, subdivision or construction project;
   F.   Tent revival meetings;
   G.   Tract home or lot sales office;
   H.   Construction - garage or shed for subdivision construction;
   I.   Such other uses as the board may, by resolution, deem to be within the
intent and purpose of this section.
(Ord. 1178 § 7.7.1, 1987)
17.68.215 Temporary agricultural activity in certain zones.
   In addition to the temporary uses allowed in Section
17.68.210 above, the growing of field crops and raising of livestock shall be
an allowable temporary use for properties zoned I-1, I-2, or PAD, provided the
application meets all of the following requirements:
   A.   The property contains a minimum of 40 acres.
   B.   Subject property has not been residentially subdivided.
   C.   The permit may be granted for any period of time not to exceed five
years.
   D.   Application must address methods of dust mitigation, using best
management practices consistent with all local, state, and federal law or
regulations.
   E.   Application must be found to not have a significant adverse impact upon
surrounding properties.
   F.   Provision of irrigation water to subject property must not create
conflicts with, or increase the cost of, future public infrastructure,
including, but not limited to, street and sidewalk extensions.
   G.   Any application of pesticides or other regulated materials shall follow
all applicable local, state, and federal laws or regulations.
   H.   Any permit being requested under this section shall require a public
hearing. Public notice of the public hearing shall consist of the following:
   1.   A notice of time, date, place, and purpose of the hearing shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation that is published or circulated
within the city at least fifteen days prior to the date of the hearing; and
   2.   If the subject property is within five hundred feet of a residential
structure, as measured from property line to property line, a notice of time,
date, place, and purpose of the hearing shall be mailed to all property owners
within one thousand feet of the subject property. For all other subject
properties, the notice shall be mailed to all property owners within three
hundred feet of the subject property.
   I.   The permit may be revoked by the zoning administrator for violation of
any provision of this chapter or for any violation of the requirements of the
permit. If a permit is revoked by the zoning administrator, the applicant shall
have the right to appeal the zoning administrator's decision to the board of
adjustment per the process outlined in Section
17.68.350.
   J.   Application must be in compliance with and follow all other
requirements of Sections
17.68.220,
17.68.230, and
17.68.240 below.
(Ord. 1397.17.38 § 1, 2011)
17.68.220 Application and filing fee.
   Application for a special temporary use permit may be made by the property
owner or his authorized agent. The application shall be filed with the zoning
administrator who shall charge and collect a filing fee for each application,
as provided in Section
17.72.080 of this title, except that the filing fee may be waived by the zoning
administrator for charitable, religious, patriotic or philanthropic
organizations. The zoning administrator may also require any information deemed
necessary to support the approval of a special temporary use permit including
site plans as per Section
17.68.030 of this title.
(Ord. 1178.29 § 2, 1990)
17.68.230 Decision.
   Application for special temporary use permit shall be reviewed by the zoning
administrator, who shall approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove such
application, except when an application for a special temporary use permit
requires a public hearing pursuant to Section
17.68.215. Approval or conditional approval shall be given only when, in the
judgment of the zoning administrator, such approval is within the intent and
purposes of this section. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the zoning
administrator may file an appeal with the board of adjustment. If an
application for a special temporary use permit requires a public hearing
pursuant to Section
17.68.215, the zoning administrator shall place the application on a future
board of adjustment agenda for a public hearing. After said public hearing, the
board of adjustment shall approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove of such
application.
(Ord. 1397.17.38 § 2, 2011; Ord. 1178 § 7.7.3, 1987)
17.68.240 Approval made subject to conditions.
   In approving such permit, the approval shall be subject to a time limit and
other conditions deemed necessary to assure that there will be no adverse
effect upon adjacent properties. The conditions may include the following:
   A.   Regulation of hours;
   B.   Regulation of lights;
   C.   Requirement of bonds or other guarantees for cleanup or removal of
structure or equipment;
   D.   Such other conditions deemed necessary to carry out the intent and
purpose of this article.
(Ord. 1178 § 7.7.4, 1987)
Article V. Procedure for Planned Area Development (P.A.D.) Approval
17.68.250 In general.
   Any development proposal which meets the requirements of
Chapter 17.40 shall be reviewed according to the provisions of this article.
All P.A.D. applications shall be reviewed and approved by the planning and
zoning commission and city council prior to any physical development on the
subject property.
(Ord. 1178 § 7.8.1, 1987)
17.68.260 Application requirements.
   A.   The applicant is encouraged to meet with appropriate city staff prior
to making application for P.A.D. approval to discuss the development concept,
the review and approval process, and the submittal requirements.
   B.   The applicant shall obtain the necessary application forms from the
planning director. Application forms properly completed and accompanied by the
required fee shall be submitted to the planning director. Concept plan exhibits
shall accompany the application. The concept plan shall be submitted at least
seven days prior to meeting with city staff.
(Ord. 1178 § 7.8.2, 1987)
17.68.270 Concept plan submittal requirements.
   The concept plan shall indicate proposed land uses, general circulation
patterns, property boundaries, existing land uses on adjacent properties,
special site conditions or problems. A computation table showing proposed land
use allocations in acres and percent of total site area shall be included on
the concept plan.
(Ord. 1178 § 7.8.3, 1987)
17.68.280 Preliminary development submittal requirements.
   Based upon comments received regarding the concept plan, the applicant shall
prepare a preliminary development plan. A preliminary development plan shall be
submitted at least twenty-one days prior to the hearing by the planning and
zoning commission. The following information shall be submitted to the planning
director:
   A.   Legal description of property and indication of gross area;
   B.   Nature of the applicant's interest in the land to be developed;
   C.   A generalized location map showing surrounding land use and traffic
circulation patterns;
   D.   Site conditions - an analysis of the existing site conditions which
indicates at a minimum:
   1.   Topographic contours with intervals of no more than two feet, to a
distance of one hundred feet beyond the property boundary,
   2.   Location and extent of major vegetative cover (if any),
   3.   Location and extent of perennial or intermittent streams and water
ponding areas,
   4.   Existing drainage patterns,
   5.   Other information considered relevant by the applicant or city staff;
   E.   Proposed allocations of land use expressed as a percentage of the total
area, as well as in acres. Uses to be indicated include:
   1.   Arterial streets,
   2.   Open space (public),
   3.   Open space (private),
   4.   Residential (if appropriate),
   5.   A stratification of residential uses in terms of single-family detached
units, patio homes, townhouses, garden apartments, etc.
   6.   Commercial (if appropriate),
   7.   Industrial (if appropriate);
   F.   A land use plan at a scale not smaller than one inch equals one hundred
feet, indicating land uses, acres and development densities of each land use
and the most nearly equivalent zoning categories; all arterial and collector
street circulation elements, pedestrian and/or bicycle circulation elements,
exact perimeter locations of any/all arterial streets and major collector
streets; open spaces; and recreational areas;
   G.   Plans indicating the approximate alignment and sizing of water lines,
sanitary sewers, and storm sewers (if any), as well as easements for all
utilities, if necessary. Also indicated should be proposed surface drainage
patterns;
   H.   A final plat of the proposed development;
   I.   Conceptual architectural renderings indicating the elevations and
exterior wall finishes of proposed buildings types;
   J.   Conceptual landscaping plans, indicating landscaping theme character of
the development;
   K.   A traffic analysis report, if deemed necessary by the city;
   L.   Phasing plan, if development is to take more than one year.
(Ord. 1178 § 7.8.4(A), 1987)
17.68.290 Planning commission review and hearing.
   A.   Notice of Hearing. The commission shall hold a public hearing on the
preliminary development plan. A notice of the time, date, place and purpose of
the hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation, published
or circulated within the city at least fifteen days prior to the date of the
hearing. A similar notice shall be mailed at least fifteen days before the day
of the hearing to each owner of property situated wholly or partly within two
hundred feet of the property to which the P.A.D. relates. The planning director
shall be responsible for placing and mailing such notices. For purposes of
giving mailed notice, the planning director shall require the applicant to
furnish the names and addresses of all property owners within two hundred feet
of the property.
   B.   Review. In considering applications for P.A.D. approval, the commission
shall consider the following:
   1.   Interrelationship with the plan elements to conditions both on and off
the property;
   2.   Conformance to the general plan guide;
   3.   The impact of the plan on the existing and anticipated traffic and
parking conditions;
   4.   The adequacy of the plan with respect to land use;
   5.   Pedestrian and vehicular ingress and egress, including handicapped
accessibility;
   6.   Architectural design;
   7.   Landscaping;
   8.   Provisions for utilities;
   9.   Site drainage;
   10.   Open space and/or public land dedications;
   11.   Grading;
   12.   Other related matters.
   C.   The commission shall consider oral or written statements from the
applicant, the public, city staff, or its own members. It may question the
applicant and approve, disapprove, or table the preliminary development plan.
The application may not be tabled for more than two regular meetings of the
commission.
   D.   If the commission shall determine by motion that the proposed
preliminary development plan will not be detrimental to the health, safety, or
welfare of the community, will not cause traffic congestion or depreciate
surrounding property values and, at the same time, is in harmony with the
purposes and intent of this title, the plan for the area, and the general
planning guide, the commission may recommend granting preliminary development
plan approval, along with necessary conditions and safeguards, including
provisions, as applicable, for public land dedications.
   E.   The commission shall notify the council, in writing, of its
recommendation.
(Ord. 1178 § 7.8.4(B), 1987)
17.68.300 City council consideration and hearing—Review and approval.
   A.   Consideration and Hearing. The city council, after receipt of the
report and recommendation of the planning and zoning commission, may consider
the P.A.D. request. If requested in writing by any member of the public or the
city council, the council shall hold a public hearing on the request. A notice
of the time, date, place and purpose of the hearing shall be published in the
official newspaper of the city at least fifteen days prior to the date of the
hearing. A preliminary development plan which has been recommended for denial
by the commission shall not be reviewed by the council except upon written
request by the applicant and shall require a public hearing.
   B.   Review and Approval. In its deliberations on the preliminary
development plan, the council shall consider oral or written statements from
the applicant, city staff, the public, and its own members. The council's
review shall encompass the same spectrum of considerations as did the
Commission's. The city council may approve the preliminary development plan,
deny the request, or table the request. The application may not be tabled for
more than two meetings in succession. Conditions may be applied to the approval
and/or periodic review of the approval may be required. Approvals, if granted,
shall be for a particular development, not for a particular applicant.
   C.   Public Protests Against P.A.D. If there is a written protest against
the preliminary development plan signed by the owners of twenty percent or more
of the property within one hundred fifty feet of the proposed P.A.D., the
preliminary development plan shall not be approved except upon the affirmative
vote of three-fourths of all members of the city council. If the above protest
requirements are not met, approval may be by majority vote of the membership of
the city council.
   D.   Duration of P.A.D. Zoning. Approval of a P.A.D. rezoning request shall
be conditioned upon the recording of the final subdivision plat and any related
material within one year of the date of approval action taken by the city
council. If, at the expiration of this period, the final subdivision plat and
any related material have not been recorded, the property shall revert to its
former zoning classification without council or commission action.
   E.   The city may authorize extensions when deemed necessary.
(Ord. 1178 § 7.8.4(C), 1987)
17.68.310 Final development plan.
   A.   Approval. Final P.A.D. development plan approval and the issuance of a
development permit for any portion of a P.A.D. shall occur only when:
   1.   A reproducible copy of the approved preliminary development plan with
appropriate signatures is submitted;
   2.   The design and construction specifications for all utilities, property
and street improvements have been approved by the city engineer;
   3.   A site plan, subject to the requirements of Article I of this chapter,
for the specific portion of the P.A.D. in question has been submitted and has
been approved by the planning and zoning commission, as in conformance with the
preliminary development plan. Upon approval of the site plan, a reproducible
copy shall be submitted;
   4.   Architectural elevations of the buildings, with materials lists, are
submitted and approved by the planning and zoning commission;
   5.   A landscaping plan is submitted and approved by the planning and zoning
commission;
   6.   A performance bond, cash escrow agreement, or other acceptable
instrument has been deposited with the city in an amount as set by the city
council based upon the city engineer's recommendation. This financial guarantee
shall be used to ensure the full completion, as specified, of:
   a.   Public and private streets and utilities,
   b.   Landscaping, and
   c.   Privately-owned and maintained recreational facilities;
   7.   Any land dedication agreements made as part of the preliminary
development plan approval are fulfilled.
   B.   Platting Requirements. All applicants for a planned area development
permit shall be required to file with Pinal County a final plat of the Planned
Area Development complying with all of the requirements of Title 16 of this
code except to the extent that the council may give specific permission to the
effect that specific portions of Title 16 need not be complied with. Such
required plats shall contain on their face a cross-reference to the P.A.D.
development plan.
(Ord. 1178 § 7.8.5, 1987)
17.68.320 Withdrawal of application.
   Any application for a planned area development permit may be withdrawn by
the applicant at any time prior to filing the final plat upon written
notification to the planning director and/or city clerk. The P.A.D. shall be
null and void upon receipt of such notice by the city.
(Ord. 1178 § 7.8.6, 1987)
17.68.330 Amendments to approval.
   A.   Minor Changes. Minor changes in the location and placement of buildings
may be authorized by the planning director and city engineer where unforeseen
circumstances such as engineering requirements, dictate such change. When in
question, the planning director and the city engineer may determine whether the
changes shall be classified as a minor or major, or may refer the question to
the planning and zoning commission, if they deem it necessary.
   B.   Major Changes. All changes not considered Minor Changes as defined
under Section
17.68.330 A, shall be considered Major Changes. All Major Changes shall be
submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission for their review and approval
in accordance the procedure and requirements defined under Article V of this
Code, except that only Major Changes requesting a change of land use, changes
to the proposed arterial or collector roadway transportation circulation
system, loss of open space, increase in residential density, the addition of
cluster type development, or any request pertaining to a Large Single Retail
Use or Large Multiple Use Shopping Centers shall be required to be forwarded to
the City Council for final approval. All other Major Changes shall be decided
upon by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 1397.17.29 § 1 (part), 2001; Ord. 1178 § 7.8.7, 1987)
17.68.340 Denial of application.
   If an application for planned area development approval is denied at either
the preliminary development plan or final development plan stage, a new
application for a P.A.D. approval by the same applicant on the same site or
portion of the site cannot be filed prior to ninety days after the date of
denial.
(Ord. 1178 § 7.8.8, 1987)
Article VI. Procedure for Appeals to Board of Adjustment
17.68.350 Appeal authority.
   The board of adjustment shall have the authority to hear the following
appeals:
   A.   Appeals from any aggrieved person, property owner, or any officer or
department of the city affected by a decision of the planning director,
pertaining to this title.
   B.   Appeals from any person aggrieved by the city’s decision regarding
dedications or exactions.
   C.   Appeals of notices and orders issued for city code violations.
   D.   Appeals of code enforcement abatement actions and/or abatement
assessments in accordance with Section
8.12.360.
(Ord. 1397.17.48 § 2 (part), 2018; Ord. 1178.68 § 2 (part), 1995)
17.68.355 Appeal application.
   A perfected appeal application shall be submitted for any appeal within
thirty days of the decision being appealed. Appeals filed beyond this thirty-
day date shall not be accepted. The appeal application shall contain
information as may be required for the board to make a proper decision on the
matter. The planning director shall transmit to the board of adjustment the
complete record of the action for which the appeal is made.
(Ord. 1397.17.48 § 2 (part), 2018)
17.68.360 Stay of proceedings when.
   An appeal to the board of adjustment shall stay all proceedings of the
action appealed; unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to
the board that, by reason of facts stated in the certificate of stay, the stay
would, in his or her opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In such
cases, proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a restraining order
granted by the superior court on notice to the planning director, with due
cause shown.
(Ord. 1397.17.48 § 2 (part), 2018; Ord. 1178.68 § 2 (part), 1995)
17.68.370 Notice of hearing required.
   A.   No appeal may be granted by the board of adjustment until a public
hearing has been held on the application.
   B.   A notice of time, date, place and purpose of the hearing shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation, published or circulated within
the city at least fifteen days prior to the date of the hearing.
   C.   If the appeal relates to a decision on a specific site, a notice shall
be posted on, or close to, the site affected, in a location that allows for the
public to read the notice from the public right-of-way. The notice shall be in
the form required by the planning department and shall contain sufficient
information to inform the public of the nature of the variance.
   D.   If the appeal relates to a decision on a specific site, a notice shall
be mailed, at least fifteen days prior to the hearing, to each owner of the
property situated within two hundred feet of the property to which the variance
relates. The planning director shall be responsible for mailing the notice.
Failure to receive notice by individual property owners will not necessarily
invalidate the proceedings.
   E.   Notice of the time, date, place and purpose of the hearing shall be
sent to the applicant at least fifteen days prior to the hearing date.
(Ord. 1397.17.48 § 2 (part), 2018; Ord. 1178.68 § 2 (part), 1995)
17.68.380 Board of adjustment action on appeals.
   A.   Within forty-five days of the date of application, but no sooner than
fifteen days from the date of public notice, the board shall hear and decide
arguments relating to the appeal of the decision in question. The board shall
consider oral or written statements from city staff, the appellant, his/her
agent or attorney, and the public. The board shall also study the record of the
action from which the appeal is taken.
   B.   In determining appeals related to the administration of the
requirements of this title, code violations or abatement procedures, the board
of adjustment shall determine:
   1.   Whether there has been an error in the interpretation and/or
administration of the specific provision(s) of city code that are applicable to
the appeal; and
   2.   In the case of appeals of abatement actions, whether the costs being
assessed for the abatement are excessive.
   C.   In determining appeals related to required exactions and dedications,
the city will bear the burden of proving that the dedications or exactions to
be imposed on a property bear an essential nexus between the requirement and a
legitimate governmental interest, and that the proposed dedication or exaction
is roughly proportional to the impact of the use, improvement or development
proposed by the applicant.
   D.   The board may, by a vote of five members of the board, approve an
appeal. An appeal request that is not approved shall be deemed to be denied.
Appeal requests may be tabled by a simple majority of those board members
present. Any postponement shall be limited to a maximum of seventy-five days;
unless extended with the written permission of the applicant.
   E.   The board may impose such conditions and safeguards as it deems
necessary to satisfactorily correct the situation in question, but it shall not
attempt to infringe upon matters not specifically contained in the appeal.
   F.   The board of adjustment shall forward a report of its findings, and any
conditions imposed on approved variances, promptly to the planning and zoning
commission and the city council. Transmitted meeting minutes will satisfy this
requirement.
(Ord. 1397.17.48 § 2 (part), 2018; Ord. 1397.17.43 § 3, 2012; Ord. 1178.68 § 2
(part), 1995)
17.68.390 Notice of board decision.
   The board shall issue a written notice of its decision to the appellant. The
notice shall state the facts of the matter as determined by the board, the
reasons for its decision, and any conditions applied to the decision.
(Ord. 1397.17.48 § 2 (part), 2018; Ord. 1178.68 § 2 (part), 1995)
17.68.395 Appeal of a decision of the board of adjustment.
   If the applicant is dissatisfied with any decision of the board of
adjustment, the applicant may file a complaint for a trial de novo with the
superior court within thirty days of the board's decision.
(Ord. 1397.17.48 § 2 (part), 2018; Ord. 1178.68 § 2 (part), 1995)
Article VII. Procedure for Issuance of Building Permits and Certificate of
Occupancy
17.68.400 In general.
   No person, firm or corporation shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter,
repair, move, improve, remove, convert, or demolish any building or structure
in the city, or cause the same to be done, without first obtaining a separate
building permit for each building or structure from the building official as
set forth in the Uniform Building Code of the city. Such building official, for
the purposes of this title alone shall be considered to be acting on behalf of,
and at the direction of, the zoning administrator.
(Ord. 1178 § 7.10.1, 1987)
17.68.410 Building permit application.
   In order to facilitate the administration of the provisions of this title
and the Uniform Building Code of the city, each application for a building
permit shall comply with the requirements as set forth in the Uniform Building
Code at Section 301(b) as follows:
   A.   Identify and describe the work to be covered by the permit for which
application is made;
   B.   Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done, by lot,
block, tract, and house and street address, or similar description that will
readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or work;
   C.   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is intended;
   D.   Be accompanied by plans and specifications as required in Subsection
(c) of this Section;
   E.   State the valuation of the proposed work;
   F.   Be signed by the permittee, or his authorized agent, who may be
required to submit evidence to indicate such authority;
   G.   Give such other information as reasonably may be required by the
building official;
   H.   In addition thereto, said application shall contain the following:
   1.   A drawing or plat, in duplicate, drawn to scale and showing the lot,
the proposed buildings (to include projection) thereon, the dimensions of lot
and building,and the exact location of the proposed building on the lot;
   I.   The present use of any existing building on the same lot;
   J.   Such information on front yard depths and other yard sizes on other
lots, together with such other information as the zoning administrator shall
require for the proper enforcement of the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 1178 § 7.10.2, 1987)
17.68.420 Certification of occupancy required prior to certain actions.
   A.   A certificate of occupancy, stating that all of the provisions of this
title have been fully complied with, shall have been obtained from the zoning
administrator before:
   1.   Any structure for which a building permit is required is used or
occupied, including any conversion of any building to provide additional
dwelling units;
   2.   Any use of an existing structure is changed to a use of a different
classification;
   3.   Any use of a nonconforming use is changed.
   B.   In the case of a structure or use established, altered, enlarged, or
moved after conditional approval thereof by the planning and zoning commission,
such certificate shall be issued only if all the conditions thereof shall have
been satisfied.
   C.   Application for a certificate of occupancy shall be made and filed with
the zoning administrator when any structure or use for which a certificate is
required is ready for use or occupancy. Within three days after the filing
thereof the zoning administrator or his designee shall inspect such structure
or use, and if found to be in conformity with all provisions of this title,
shall sign and issue a certificate of occupancy.
   D.   No permit or license required by the city or other governmental agency
shall be issued by any department, officials or employees of the city or such
governmental agency, unless the application for such permit or license is
accompanied by a certificate of occupancy issued by the zoning administrator.
(Ord. 1178 § 7.10.3, 1987)
Article VIII. Amendment Procedure
17.68.430 In general.
   In accordance with the provisions of the Arizona State Statutes, the city
council may from time to time adopt amendments to the ordinance codified in
this title. An amendment to the ordinance codified in this title may involve
changes in its text or wording, including but not limited to changes in the
regulations regarding uses, setbacks, heights, lot areas, definitions,
administration, and/or procedures. Ordinance amendments do not, however,
include rezoning of property. Amendments may be initiated by the council, the
planning and zoning commission, or by petition of a person whose property would
be affected by the amendment.
(Ord. 1178 § 7.1.1, 1987)
17.68.440 Application requirements.
   If an individual or other party initiates a request for an amendment to the
ordinance codified in this title, the request must be made on a form provided
by the zoning administrator. The request must state the exact section of the
ordinance proposed for amendment, the proposed substitute wording, and the
reasons for requesting the amendment. Graphic material should also be submitted
if it will assist in understanding the benefits of the amendment. The submittal
must be made to the zoning administrator and the processing fee paid at least
thirty days prior to the date of public hearing by the planning and zoning
commission.
(Ord. 1178 § 7.1.2, 1987)
17.68.450 Notice of hearing.
   No amendment to the ordinance codified in this title shall be adopted until
public hearings have been held thereon by the planning and zoning commission
and the city council. A notice of the time, date, place and purpose of the
hearings shall be published at least once in a newspaper of general
circulation, published or circulated within the city at least fifteen days
prior to the date of the first hearing which shall be held by the planning and
zoning commission and at least fifteen days prior to a subsequent hearing by
the city council. The hearing date shall be set for not more than thirty days
after the application of amendment has been received by the zoning
administrator and all appropriate processing fees are paid in full.
(Ord. 1178 § 7.1.3, 1987)
17.68.460 Hearing and recommendation by planning and zoning commission when.
   An amendment not initiated by the planning and zoning commission shall be
referred to the commission for study and public hearing. In its deliberations
on the matter, the commission shall consider oral and written statements from
the petitioner, the public, city staff, and its own members. The commission may
approve, disapprove, or table an amendment application. The commission shall
notify the city council, in writing, of its recommendation within sixty days of
the public hearing.
(Ord. 1178 § 7.1.4, 1987)
17.68.470 Hearing and decision by city council.
   The city council, after receipt of the report and recommendation of the
planning and zoning commission, shall set a date within thirty days for a
public hearing on the amendment request. An amendment which has been
recommended for denial by the commission shall not be reviewed by the council
except upon the written request of the applicant. In its deliberations on the
matter, the council shall consider oral or written statements from the
petitioner, the public, city staff members, and its own members. The council
may approve the request by ordinance, deny the request, or table the request.
(Ord. 1178 § 7.1.5, 1987)
Article IX. Zoning and Zoning Code Amendment Procedures
17.68.480 In general.
   In accordance with the provisions of the Arizona Revised Statutes, the city
council may from time to time change the zoning of parcels of land within the
municipality and/or the zoning code regulations of general applicability. These
changes in zoning classification or zoning regulations are for the purpose of
meeting the land use needs of the residents of the city in conformance with the
city's general plan. Rezoning may be initiated by the city council, the
commission, the city manager or the owner of the property, or the owner's agent
as duly authorized in writing, proposed for rezoning.
(Ord. 1397.17.64 § 2 (part), 2024; Ord. 1178 § 7.2.1, 1987)
17.68.490 Application requirements.
   An application for rezoning shall be made on a form provided by the
director.(Ord. 1397.17.64 § 2 (part), 2024; Ord. 1178 § 7.2.2, 1987)
17.68.500 Application processing.
   A.   Completeness review.
   1.   Within ten business days of the submittal of a rezoning application,
city shall determine if said application is administratively complete. An
application will be determined to be administratively complete if it contains
all of the required submittal requirements set forth within the rezoning
application form.
   2.   Within ten business days of submittal, the applicant will be notified
in writing as to whether the application has been determined to be
administratively complete or determined not to be administratively complete. If
an application has been determined to not be administratively complete, the
applicant shall be notified in writing of the specific deficiencies of the
application that need to be addressed prior to passing completeness review and
upon re-submittal of the zoning application, the city shall, within ten
business days, determine whether the re-submittal is administratively complete.
   B.   Staff review. Upon a determination that a rezoning application is
administratively complete, it shall be reviewed by city staff for compliance
with the general plan and other relevant city codes. Once an application has
undergone staff review, it shall be scheduled for a public hearing and
consideration by the commission.
   C.   Hearing and recommendation by the commission. All rezoning applications
shall be referred to the commission for study and public hearing. In its
deliberations on the matter, the commission shall consider oral or written
statements from the applicant, the public, city staff, and its own members. The
commission may recommend approval or denial of, or it may table, the rezoning
application. If an application fails to receive a vote of recommendation of
approval from a majority of the members present at the meeting, it shall be
deemed a recommendation of denial. If the commission tables an application, it
may only do so for a maximum of 75 days unless more time is requested and
consented to, and the time limits in
17.68.500(E) are waived, by the applicant. The commission shall notify the city
council, in writing, which may include transmission of the commission meeting
minutes to city council, of its recommendation.
   D.   Hearing and decision by city council.
   1.   The city council shall, after receiving a recommendation of approval
from the commission, consider the rezoning request and hold a public hearing on
the request. A rezoning which has been recommended for denial by the commission
shall not be reviewed by city council except upon written request by the
applicant. Such written request must be made to the director within 30 days of
the commission's decision. Notice of the time and place of the public hearing
shall be given in the time and manner provided for giving notice of the hearing
by the commission as specified in Section
17.68.500(F) of this chapter. During any public hearing on the matter, the
council shall consider oral or written statements from the applicant, city
staff, the public and its own members.
   2.   The city council may approve any request for rezoning by ordinance,
deny the request, or table the request. If city council tables an application,
it may only do so for a maximum of 75 days unless more time is requested and
consented to, and the time limits in
17.68.500(E) are waived, by the applicant.
   3.   If approved, the director shall revise the official zoning map
accordingly. If the application is denied there may be no reapplication for the
same site for a period of 90 days.
   E.   Application processing timeframe.
   1.   Rezoning applications shall be approved or denied within 180 days from
the date of being determined to be administratively complete. The City may
extend the time frame to approve or deny the rezoning application beyond the
180-day time limit for either of the following reasons:
   a.   For extenuating circumstances, the city manager may grant a one-time
extension of not more than thirty days.
   b.   If an applicant requests an extension, the city manager may grant
extensions of thirty days for each extension granted.
   2.   The 180-day time limit does not apply to:
   a.   Property that is located within a designated historic district or is
classified as a historical landmark.
   b.   PAD zoning applications.
   F.   Hearing notice.
   1.   No rezoning may be adopted until a public hearing has been held on the
matter by the commission and by city council.
   2.   A notice of the time, date, place, and purpose of the hearings shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation, published or circulated in the
city at least fifteen days prior to the date of the first hearing and at least
fifteen days prior to the date of any subsequent hearing.
   3.   A similar notice shall be made at least fifteen days before the day of
the first hearing to each owner of property situated wholly or partly within
three hundred feet of the property to which the rezoning relates. The director
shall be responsible for mailing such notices and shall make a copy of the
notice and a list of the owners and addresses to which the notice was sent as a
part of the record of proceedings. The failure to receive notice by individual
property owners if notices were published and mailed fifteen days prior to the
hearing shall not necessarily invalidate the proceedings.
   4.   In proceedings involving rezoning of land which abuts other
municipalities or unincorporated areas of Pinal County, or a combination
thereof, copies of the notice of the public hearing shall be transmitted to the
planning agency of such governmental unit abutting such land.
(Ord. 1397.17.64 § 2 (part), 2024)
17.68.510 Housing statement.
   Before adopting any zoning, rezoning, or zoning ordinance text amendment of
general applicability, city council shall consider a housing impact statement
regarding the impact of the zoning, rezoning, or zoning ordinance text
amendment that shall include:
   A.   A general estimate of the probable impact of the average cost to
construct housing for sale or rent within the zoning districts to which the
zoning ordinance or text amendment applies.
   B.   A description of any data or reference material on which the proposed
zoning ordinance or text amendment is based.
   C.   A description of any less costly or less restrictive alternative
methods of achieving the proposed zoning ordinance or text amendment.
(Ord. 1397.17.64 § 2 (part), 2024)
17.68.520 Reserved.
17.68.530 Reserved.
17.68.540 Public protest against rezoning application.
   A.   If the owners of twenty percent or more of the property by area and
number of lots, tracts and condominium units within the zoning area of the
affected property, excluding government-owned property, file a protest in
writing against a proposed zone change or text amendment, the change shall not
become effective except by the favorable vote of three-fourths of all of the
members of the city council.
   B.   If any members of city council are unable to vote on such a question
because of conflict of interest, then the required number of votes for passage
of the question shall be three-fourths of the remaining membership of the city
council, if such required number of votes is not less than a majority of the
full membership of the city council.
   C.   A protest filed pursuant to this section shall be signed by the
property owners, excluding government-owned property, opposing the proposed
rezoning or text amendment and filed with the city clerk no later than five
business days before the date on which the city council is scheduled to hear
the proposed rezoning application.
   D.   For the purposes of this section, “zoning area” shall mean both of the
following:
   1.   The area within 150 feet, including all rights of way, of the affected
property subject to the rezoning request.
   2.    The area of the proposed rezoning request.
(Ord. 1397.17.64 § 2 (part), 2024; Ord. 1178 § 7.2.7, 1987)
17.68.550 Right-of-way dedication as condition when.
   The commission may require as a condition to the change of zone, the
dedication of right-of-way necessary for roadways as prescribed by the
circulation plan contained in the city general plan. The commission may also
require dedication of land for future roadway construction that is not included
in the circulation plan of the general plan if it is deemed to be in the best
interest of the city.
(Ord. 1397.17.64 § 2 (part), 2024; Ord. 1178 § 7.2.8, 1987)
Article X. Protected Development Rights Plans
17.68.1000 Definitions.
   In this Article, unless the context otherwise requires:
   A.   "Construction Permits" or "Building Permits" mean those permits issued
for the construction of the project, such as but not limited to, infrastructure
improvements, building foundations, buildings, paving of vehicular use areas,
or similar types of improvements related to the construction and implementation
of the project. Permits for (a) clearing, grubbing, and grading of a site; (b)
construction of a section of sidewalk; (c) installation of screening; (d)
paving of an access driveway but not the parking associated with use; or (e)
any similar type of work are not included in the definition of Construction
Permits or Building Permits for purposes of this Article, unless specifically
stated otherwise by this Article or the process requiring the applicability of
this Article.
   B.   "Development Plan" means a subdivision final plat in conformance with
Title 16 or a PAD plan in conformance with Title 17 of a project site submitted
by a Landowner that provides detailed information as to how a proposed project
will be developed in compliance with City ordinances and regulations.
   C.   "Landowner" means any owner of a legal or equitable interest in real
property, including the heirs, devisees, successors, assigns and personal
representative of the owner, or a representative authorized by a Landowner to
submit to a city or town a development application for a property for approval.
   D.   "Property" means all real property subject to zoning regulations and
restrictions by a city or town.
   E.   "Protected development right" means the right to undertake and complete
the development and use of property under the terms and conditions of a
Protected Development Right Plan and this Article, without compliance with
subsequent changes in zoning regulations and development standards during the
term of the Protected Development Right, except as provided by A.R.S. § 9-1204
and Section
17.67.1007.
   F.   "Protected Development Right Plan" means a Development Plan identified
as a Protected Development Right Plan at the time of the Landowner's
submission, that, if approved by the Council, grants to the Landowner a
Protected Development Right to undertake and complete the development and use
of the property as shown thereon for a specified period of time. A Protected
Development Right Plan, at a minimum, shall describe with a reasonable degree
of certainty all of the following:
   1.   The proposed uses of the site.
   2.   The boundaries of the site.
   3.   Significant topographical and other natural features affecting
development of the site.
   4.   The number of dwelling units or other structures, and
   5.   The location of all existing and proposed utilities and a provision for
other infrastructure on the site, including water, sewers, roads and pedestrian
walkways.
   G.   "Non-Phased Protected Development Right Plan" means Protected
Development Right Plan which, at a minimum, shall describe with a reasonable
degree of certainty all of the elements of a Protected Development Right Plan
as set forth in Subsection F, above, as well as all of the following:
   1.   The requirements for final site development approval and for issuance
of a building permit.
   2.   The general location on the site of the proposed buildings, structures
and other improvements.
   3.   The square footage and height of the proposed buildings and other
structures.
   A final subdivision plat that meets the requirements of
Chapter 16.12 of the Casa Grande Municipal Code and A.R.S. § 9-463.01 and was
identified and submitted by the Landowner for approval through the process
established in this Article shall be a Non-Phased Protected Development Right
Plan.
   H.   "Phased Protected Development Right Plan" means a Development Plan for
a master planned development in accordance with the requirements of a Planned
Area Development in Title 17, consisting of at least one hundred and sixty
(160) acres, and containing the elements articulated in Subsection F above.
(Ord. 1397.17.30 § 1 (part), 2002)
17.68.1001 Protected Development Right Plan approvals.
   A Protected Development Right shall be granted upon approval by the Council
of a Development Plan identified at the time it is submitted as a Protected
Development Right Plan.
(Ord. 1397.17.30 § 1 (part), 2002)
17.68.1002 Effective date; exceptions.
   A.   A Protected Development Right shall be deemed established with respect
to a property on the Effective Date of the Council's approval of the Protected
Development Right Plan.
   B.   A Protected Development Right Plan approved with a condition or
stipulation that a variance be obtained does not confer a Protected Development
Right until the necessary variance is obtained. Approval of a Protected
Development Right Plan does not guarantee approval of a variance.
(Ord. 1397.17.30 § 1 (part), 2002)
17.68.1003 Submission procedures and requirements.
   When a Development Plan is required to be processed in accordance with this
Article, preparation, application, and approval shall be as follows:
   A.   Phased Protected Development Right Plan. A Phased Protected Development
Right Plan shall be submitted to the City in accordance with the PAD plan
approval process described in
Chapter 17.68, Article V.
   B.   Non-Phased Protected Development Right Plan. A Non-Phased Protected
Development Right Plan shall be submitted to the City as described for
preliminary and final plat approval in Titles 16 and 17.
   C.   Council Consideration.
   1.   The Mayor and Council shall consider for approval Protected Development
Right Plan submitted in accordance with this Article and Arizona Revised
Statutes (A.R.S.) §§ 9-1201 through 1205, inclusive.
   2.   A Protected Development Right is subject to the terms and conditions
imposed by the Council on the Protected Development Right Plan approval and
nothing in this Article is intended to or shall preclude the Council from
establishing such terms and conditions.
   3.   Nothing in this Article is intended to or shall preclude the City's
other additional requirements for submittal or approval of Development Plans
for any land use category or district and such requirements may include, but
are not limited to, traffic reports or studies, drainage reports or studies,
master street plans, development phasing schedules and phased public
infrastructure schedules.
   D.   Subsequent Reviews and Approvals. After the approval of a Protected
Development Right Plan, the plan will be subject to subsequent reviews and
approvals by the Council, as set forth in the original resolution of approval,
to ensure compliance with the terms and conditions of the original approval.
   E.   Later Detailed Plan Submittals. The Landowner shall submit a more
detailed plan for each phase of a phased development in order to obtain final
site development approval to develop the property.
(Ord. 1397.17.30 § 1 (part), 2002)
17.68.1004 Revocation for non-compliance.
   The City may revoke, upon notice to the Landowner and public hearing, its
approval of the Protected Development Right Plan for failure to comply with
applicable terms and conditions imposed on the approval as well as Landowner's
failure to submit a more detailed plan for each phase of a Phased development
for final site development approval.
(Ord. 1397.17.30 § 1 (part), 2002)
17.68.1005 Duration of Protected Development Right Plan.
   A.   A Protected Development Right established under a Protected Development
Right Plan is valid for three years for a Non-Phased development or five years
for a Phased development.
   B.   A city or town may extend for a maximum of two additional years the
duration of a Protected Development Right obtained through approval of a
Protected Development Right Plan, if a longer time period is warranted by all
relevant circumstances, including the size, type and phasing of the development
on the property, the level of investment of the Landowner, economic cycles and
market conditions. The decision to extend the time period for a Protected
Development Right is in the discretion of the City. However, a Protected
Development Right shall not remain established for more than five years for a
Non-Phased development or seven years for a phased development.
   C.   A Protected Development Right terminates at the end of the applicable
period established under this section. If a building permit has been issued
before the date of termination of a Protected Development Right, the Protected
Development Right remains valid until the building permit expires, but in no
event for longer than one year. On expiration, only principal structures for
which footings or foundations have been completed may be finished under the
Protected Development Right. On the expiration of a Protected Development
Right, development may continue based on a valid building permit and according
to standards in effect at that time. An unexpired building permit issued for a
property with a Protected Development Right neither expires nor shall be
revoked merely because a Protected Development Right expires under the time
limitations specified in this section.
(Ord. 1397.17.30 § 1 (part), 2002)
17.68.1006 Limitation on extent of Protected Development Right.
   A Protected Development Right is established only for the specific elements
of the development or other specific matters shown on the approved Protected
Development Right Plan. A Protected Development Right is not established for
any elements or other matters, or portions of any elements of the development
or other matters not shown on the approved Protected Development Right Plan.
(Ord. 1397.17.30 § 1 (part), 2002)
17.68.1007 Subsequent changes prohibited; exceptions.
   A.   A Protected Development Right established under this section precludes
the enforcement against the property to which the Protected Development Right
applies of any legislative or administrative land use regulation by a city or
town or pursuant to an initiated measure that would change, alter, impair,
prevent, diminish, delay or otherwise impact the development or use of the
property as set forth in an approved Protected Development Right Plan, except
under any one or more of the following circumstances:
   1.   With the written consent of the affected Landowner.
   2.   On findings, by ordinance or resolution, and after notice and a public
hearing, that natural or man-made hazards on or in the immediate vicinity of
the property, if uncorrected, would pose a serious threat to the public health,
safety and welfare if the project were to proceed as approved in the Protected
Development Right Plan.
   3.   On findings, by ordinance or resolution, and after notice and a
hearing, that the Landowner or his representative intentionally supplied
inaccurate information or made material misrepresentations that made a
difference in the approval of the Protected Development Right Plan by the City.
   4.   On the enactment of a state or federal law or regulation that precludes
development as approved in the Protected Development Right Plan, in which case
the governing body of the City, after notice and a hearing, may modify the
affected provisions, on a finding that the change in state or federal law has a
fundamental effect on the Protected Development Right Plan.
   B.   A Protected Development Right does not preclude the enforcement of a
subsequently adopted overlay zoning classification that imposes additional
requirements and that does not affect the allowable type or density of use, or
ordinances or regulations that are general in nature and that are applicable to
all property subject to land use regulation by the City, such as building,
fire, plumbing, electrical and mechanical codes.
   C.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Article, the establishment
of a Protected Development Right does not preclude, change or impair the
authority of a city or town to adopt and enforce zoning ordinance provisions
governing nonconforming property or uses.
   D.   This Article does not alter or diminish the authority of a city or town
to exercise its eminent domain powers.
(Ord. 1397.17.30 § 1 (part), 2002)
17.68.1008 Council designation of Development Plan.
   The Council may designate, by ordinance or resolution, a Development Plan as
a Protected Development Right Plan even if not identified as a Protected
Development Right Plan at the time of Landowner submission. The Council must
make a finding on the record that its granting of a Protected Development Right
to undertake and complete the development shown on the Development Plan will
promote reasonable certainty, stability and fairness in the land use planning
and regulatory process and that it will secure the reasonable investment-backed
expectations of the Landowner.
(Ord. 1397.17.30 § 1 (part), 2002)
17.68.1009 Waiver may not be a condition of approval.
   A city or town shall not require a Landowner to waive a Protected
Development Right as a condition of development approval.
(Ord. 1397.17.30 § 1 (part), 2002)
17.68.1010 Protected Development Right; exercise; agreements.
   A.   A Protected Development Right obtained under this Article is not a
personal right but attaches to and runs with the applicable property. After
approval of a Protected Development Right Plan, all successors to the original
Landowner are entitled to exercise the Protected Development Rights.
   B.   Nothing in this Article precludes judicial determination, based on
common law principles or statutory provisions, that a vested right exists in a
particular case or that a compensable taking has occurred. Except as expressly
provided in this Article, nothing herein shall be construed to alter the
existing common law of vested rights.
   C.   Nothing in this Article shall preclude, change or limit the ability of
the City to enter into a development agreement as authorized in A.R.S. § 9-
500.05.
(Ord. 1397.17.30 § 1 (part), 2002)
17.68.1011 Resolution of conflict.
   In the event of a conflict between the provisions of this Article and A.R.S.
§§ 9-1201 through 9-1205, inclusive and as they may be amended, the statutory
provisions shall govern.
(Ord. 1397.17.30 § 1 (part), 2002)
Chapter 17.72
ENFORCEMENT
Sections:
17.72.010   Use of land in violation prohibited.
17.72.020   Order to correct violation.
17.72.030   Right of appeal.
17.72.040   Enforcement authority.
17.72.050   Violation—Penalty.
17.72.060   City held harmless.
17.72.010 Use of land in violation prohibited.
   No person shall locate, erect, construct, reconstruct, enlarge, change,
maintain, or use any building or structure, or use any land in violation of
this title.
(Ord. 1178 § 8.1.1, 1987)
17.72.020 Order to correct violation.
   The zoning administrator shall order, in writing, the correction of any
violation. Such order shall state the nature of the violation, the ordinance
provision violated, and the time by which the violation must be corrected.
After such order has been served, no work shall proceed on any structure or
tract of land covered by such an order except to correct such violation or to
comply with the order.
(Ord. 1178 § 8.1.2, 1987)
17.72.030 Right of appeal.
   Decisions of the zoning administrator may be appealed to the board of
adjustment in accordance with Article VI. of this chapter.
(Ord. 1178 § 8.1.3, 1987)
17.72.040 Enforcement authority.
   In addition to or in lieu of the procedures outlined above, this title shall
be enforceable in a court of proper jurisdiction, and any or all appropriate
remedies at law or in equity shall be available for the enforcement thereof.
(Ord. 1178 § 8.1.4, 1987)
17.72.050 Violation—Penalty.
   Any and all persons who shall violate any of the provisions of this title or
fail to comply therewith, or who shall fail to comply with any lawful order or
regulation made thereunder, shall severally for each and every violation and
noncompliance respectively, forfeit and pay a fine of not less than fifty
dollars, nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars, and/or be imprisoned not to
exceed the time of four months for each offense, the violation constituting a
Class 2 misdemeanor under the Criminal Code of the laws of the state of
Arizona. In addition, the costs of any such action may be imposed at the
discretion of the court. The imposition of one penalty for any violation of
this title shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all
such persons shall be required to correct or remedy the violations and defects
within a reasonable time; and each day that the prohibited condition is not
corrected or remedied shall constitute a separate offense; and the court shall
impose a fine on a per diem basis for each day that the violation is
maintained. Application of the above penalty shall not be held to preclude the
forced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Ord. 1178 § 8.1.5, 1987)
17.72.060 City held harmless.
   This title shall not be construed to hold the city, its planning director,
zoning administrator, city engineer or any other city official, responsible for
any damage to persons or property by reason of any inspection or reinspection
authorized herein or the failure to so inspect or reinspect or by reason of the
issuance to a building permit as herein required.
(Ord. 1178 § 8.1.6, 1987)
Title 18
STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION
Chapters:
18.04   Definitions
18.08   Illicit Discharge into the Storm Sewer System
18.12   Construction Stormwater Management
18.16   Post-construction Stormwater Management
Chapter 18.04
DEFINITIONS
Sections:
18.04.010   Rules of construction.
18.04.020   ADEQ.
18.04.030   Applicant.
18.04.040   Arizona pollutant discharge elimination system (AZPDES) storm water
discharge permit.
18.04.050   Best management practices (BMPs).
18.04.060   Building.
18.04.070   Channel.
18.04.080   City.
18.04.090   Clearing.
18.04.100   Construction activity.
18.04.110   Dedication.
18.04.120   Detention.
18.04.130   Developer.
18.04.140   Drainage way.
18.04.150   Erosion control.
18.04.160   Grading.
18.04.170   Hazardous materials.
18.04.180   Illegal discharge.
18.04.190   Illicit connection.
18.04.200   Impervious cover.
18.04.210   Industrial activity.
18.04.220   Infiltration.
18.04.230   Land disturbance activities.
18.04.240   Landowner.
18.04.250   Maintenance agreement.
18.04.260   MCFCD.
18.04.270   Nonpoint source pollution.
18.04.280   Non-stormwater discharge.
18.04.290   Perimeter control.
18.04.300   Person.
18.04.310   Pollutant.
18.04.320   Premises.
18.04.330   Phasing.
18.04.340   Public works director.
18.04.350   Redevelopment.
18.04.360   Sediment control.
18.04.370   Site.
18.04.380   Site development.
18.04.390   Stabilization.
18.04.400   Start of construction.
18.04.410   Stop work order.
18.04.420   Storm drainage system.
18.04.430   Stormwater.
18.04.440   Stormwater management.
18.04.450   Stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP).
18.04.460   Stormwater runoff.
18.04.470   Stormwater treatment practices (STPs).
18.04.480   Wastewater.
18.04.490   Watercourse.
18.04.500   Waterway.
18.04.010 Rules of construction.
   For the purposes of this title, the following terms shall have the meanings
set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.04.020 ADEQ.
   “ADEQ” means the Arizona Department of Environmental Quality. (Ord. 1397.18,
§ 1 (part), 2019)
18.04.030 Applicant.
   “Applicant” means a property owner or agent of a property owner who has
filed an application for a stormwater management permit. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1
(part), 2019)
18.04.040 Arizona pollutant discharge elimination system (AZPDES) storm water
discharge permit.
   “Arizona pollutant discharge elimination system (AZPDES) storm water
discharge permit” means a permit issued by ADEQ pursuant to 33 USC § 1342(b))
that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States,
whether the permit is applicable on an individual, group or general area-wide
basis. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.04.050 Best management practices (BMPs).
   “Best management practices (BMPs)” mean schedules of activities,
prohibitions of practices, general good house-keeping practices, pollution
prevention and educational practices, maintenance procedures and other
management practices to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly
or indirectly to stormwater, receiving waters, or stormwater conveyance
systems. “BMPs” also include treatment practices, operating procedures and
practices to control site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal,
or drainage from raw materials storage. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.04.060 Building.
   “Building” means any structure, either temporary or permanent, having walls
and a roof, designed for the shelter of any person, animal or property, and
occupying more than one hundred square feet of area. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part),
2019)
18.04.070 Channel.
   “Channel” means a natural or artificial watercourse with a definite bed and
banks that conducts continuously or periodically flowing water. (Ord. 1397.18,
§ 1 (part), 2019)
18.04.080 City.
   “City” means the City of Casa Grande, Arizona. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part),
2019)
18.04.090 Clearing.
   “Clearing” means any activity that removes the vegetative surface cover.
(Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.04.100 Construction activity.
   “Construction activity” means activities subject to AZPDES construction
permits. Currently these include construction projects resulting in land
disturbance of one or more acres of land, or which will disturb less than one
acre, but is part of a common plan of development or sale that will ultimately
disturb one acre or more. Such activities include, but are not limited to,
clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating and demolition. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1
(part), 2019)
18.04.110 Dedication.
   “Dedication” means the deliberate appropriation of property by its owner for
general public use. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.04.120 Detention.
   “Detention” means the temporary storage of storm runoff in a stormwater
management practice, with the goals of controlling peak discharge rates and
providing gravity settling of pollutants. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.04.130 Developer.
   “Developer” means a person who undertakes land disturbance activities. (Ord.
1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.04.140 Drainage way.
   “Drainage way” means any channel that conveys surface runoff throughout the
site. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.04.150 Erosion control.
   “Erosion control” means a measure that prevents erosion. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1
(part), 2019)
18.04.160 Grading.
   “Grading” means excavation or fill of material, including the resulting
conditions thereof. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.04.170 Hazardous materials.
   “Hazardous materials” means any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which, because of its quantity, concentration or physical,
chemical or infectious characteristics, may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety, property
or the environment, when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of,
or otherwise managed. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.04.180 Illegal discharge.
   “Illegal discharge” means any direct or indirect non-stormwater discharge to
the storm drain system, except as exempted in Chapter 18.08. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1
(part), 2019)
18.04.190 Illicit connection.
   “Illicit connection” means either of the following:
   1.   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, that
allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system, including, but not
limited to, any conveyances that allow any non-stormwater discharge, including
sewage, process wastewater and wash water, to enter the storm drain system, and
any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and sinks,
regardless of whether the drain or connection had been previously allowed,
permitted or approved by the public works director or his or her designee; or
   2.   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial land
use to the storm drain system that has not been documented in plans, maps or
equivalent records, and approved by an authorized enforcement agency. (Ord.
1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.04.200 Impervious cover.
   “Impervious cover” means those surfaces that cannot effectively infiltrate
rainfall (e.g., building rooftops, pavement, sidewalks, driveways). (Ord.
1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.04.210 Industrial activity.
   “Industrial activity” means activities subject to AZPDES industrial permits
as defined in 40 CFR §
122.26 (b) (14). (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.04.220 Infiltration.
   “Infiltration” means the process of percolating stormwater into the subsoil.
(Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.04.230 Land disturbance activities.
   “Land disturbance activities” mean activities that change the volume or peak
flow discharge rate of rainfall runoff from the land surface. This may include
the grading, digging, cutting, scraping or excavating of soil, placement of
fill materials, paving, construction, substantial removal of vegetation, or any
activity that bares soil or rock, or involves the diversion or piping of any
natural or man-made watercourse. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.04.240 Landowner.
   “Landowner” means the legal or beneficial owner of land, including those
holding the right to purchase or lease the land, or any other person holding
proprietary rights in the land. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.04.250 Maintenance agreement.
   “Maintenance agreement” means a legally recorded document that acts as a
property deed restriction, and that provides for long-term maintenance of
stormwater management practices. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.04.260 MCFCD.
   “MCFCD” means the Maricopa County Flood Control District. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1
(part), 2019)
18.04.270 Nonpoint source pollution.
   “Nonpoint source pollution” means pollution from any source other than from
any discernible, confined and discrete conveyances, and shall include, but not
be limited to, pollutants from agricultural, silvicultural, mining,
construction, subsurface disposal and urban runoff sources. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1
(part), 2019)
18.04.280 Non-stormwater discharge.
   “Non-stormwater discharge” means any discharge to the storm drain system
that is not composed entirely of stormwater. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.04.290 Perimeter control.
   “Perimeter control” means a barrier that prevents sediment from leaving a
site by filtering sediment-laden runoff or diverting it to a sediment trap or
basin. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.04.300 Person.
   “Person” means any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner or
as the owner’s agent. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.04.310 Pollutant.
   “Pollutant” means anything that causes or contributes to pollution.
“Pollutants” may include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes and
solvents; oil and other automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid and solid
wastes and yard wastes; refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or
abandoned objects, ordinances and accumulations, so that same may cause or
contribute to pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides and fertilizers;
hazardous materials and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved
and particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from
constructing a building or structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any
kind. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.04.320 Premises.
   “Premises” means any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land,
whether improved or unimproved, including adjacent sidewalks and parking
strips. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.04.330 Phasing.
   “Phasing” means clearing a parcel of land in distinct phases, with the
stabilization of each phase completed before the clearing of the next. (Ord.
1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.04.340 Public works director.
   “Public works director” means the public works director for the City of Casa
Grande, Arizona. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.04.350 Redevelopment.
   “Redevelopment” means any construction, alteration or improvement exceeding
one or more acres of land, or which will disturb less than one acre that is
part of a common plan of development, in areas where existing land use is high
density commercial, industrial, institutional or multi-family residential.
(Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.04.360 Sediment control.
   “Sediment control” means measures that prevent eroded sediment from leaving
the site. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.04.370 Site.
   “Site” means a parcel of land, or a contiguous combination thereof, where
grading work is performed as a single unified operation. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1
(part), 2019)
18.04.380 Site development.
   “Site development” means a permit issued by the municipality for the
construction or alteration of ground. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.04.390 Stabilization.
   “Stabilization” means the use of practices that prevent exposed soil from
eroding. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.04.400 Start of construction.
   “Start of construction” means the first land-disturbing activity associated
with a development, including land preparation, such as clearing, grading and
filling; installation of streets and walkways; excavation for basements,
footings, piers or foundations; erection of temporary forms; and the
installation of accessory buildings such as garages. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part),
2019)
18.04.410 Stop work order.
   “Stop work order” means an order issued that requires that all construction
activity on a site be stopped. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.04.420 Storm drainage system.
   “Storm drainage system” means publicly-owned facilities by which stormwater
is collected and/or conveyed, including, but not limited to, any roads with
drainage systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm
drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and man-
made or altered drainage channels, reservoirs and other drainage structures.
(Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.04.430 Stormwater.
   “Stormwater” means any surface flow, runoff and drainage consisting entirely
of water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such
precipitation. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.04.440 Stormwater management.
   “Stormwater management” means the use of structural or non-structural
practices designed to reduce stormwater runoff pollutant loads, discharge
volumes, peak flow discharge rates and detrimental changes in stream
temperature that affect water quality and habitat. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part),
2019)
18.04.450 Stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP).
   “Stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP)” means a document that
describes the best management practices and activities to be implemented by a
person or business to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site,
and the actions to eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to stormwater,
stormwater conveyance systems, and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent
practicable. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.04.460 Stormwater runoff.
   “Stormwater runoff” means flow on the surface of the ground, resulting from
precipitation. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.04.470 Stormwater treatment practices (STPs).
   “Stormwater treatment practices (STPs)” mean measures, either structural or
nonstructural, that are determined to be the most effective, practical means of
preventing or reducing point source or nonpoint source pollution inputs to
stormwater runoff and water bodies. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.04.480 Wastewater.
   “Wastewater” means any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated
stormwater, discharged from a facility. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.04.490 Watercourse.
   “Watercourse” means any body of water, including, but not limited to, lakes,
ponds, rivers, streams, and bodies of water delineated by the city. (Ord.
1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.04.500 Waterway.
   “Waterway” means a channel that directs surface runoff to a watercourse or
to the public storm drain. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
Chapter 18.08
ILLICIT DISCHARGE TO THE STORM SEWER SYSTEM
Sections:
18.08.010   Purpose; intent.
18.08.020   Applicability.
18.08.030   Responsibility for administration.
18.08.040   Severability.
18.08.050   Ultimate responsibility.
18.08.060   Discharge prohibitions.
18.08.070   Suspension of MS4 access.
18.08.080   Industrial or construction activity discharges.
18.08.090   Monitoring of discharges.
18.08.100   Requirement to prevent, control and reduce stormwater pollutants by
the use of best management practices.
18.08.110   Watercourse protection.
18.08.120   Notification of spills.
18.08.130   Enforcement.
18.08.140   Appeal of notice of violation.
18.08.150   Enforcement measures after appeal.
18.08.160   Cost of abatement of the violation.
18.08.170   Injunctive relief.
18.08.180   Compensatory action.
18.08.190   Violations deemed a public nuisance.
18.08.200   Criminal prosecution.
18.08.210   Recovery of fees.
18.08.220   Remedies not exclusive.
18.08.230   Severability.
18.08.010 Purpose; intent.
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety and
general welfare of the citizens of the city through the regulation of non-
stormwater discharges to the storm drainage system, to the maximum extent
practicable as required by federal and state law. This chapter establishes
methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
separate storm sewer system (MS4) in order to comply with requirements of the
(AZPDES) permit process.
   B.   The objectives of this chapter are:
      1.   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the municipal separate
storm sewer system (MS4) by stormwater discharges by any user;
      2.   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the municipal
separate storm sewer system; and
      3.   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection,
surveillance and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this
chapter. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.08.020 Applicability.
   This chapter shall apply to all water entering the storm drain system
generated on any developed and undeveloped lands, unless explicitly exempted by
the public works director, or his or her designee. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part),
2019)
18.08.030 Responsibility for administration.
   The public works director, or his or her designee, shall administer,
implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted or
duties imposed upon the public works director, or his or her designee, may be
delegated in writing by the public works director to persons or entities acting
in the beneficial interest or the employ of the agency. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1
(part), 2019)
18.08.040 Severability.
   The provisions of this chapter are hereby declared to be severable. If any
provision, clause, sentence or paragraph of this chapter, or the application
thereof to any person, establishment, or circumstances, shall beheld invalid,
such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions or application of this
chapter. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.08.050 Ultimate responsibility.
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this chapter are
minimum standards; therefore this chapter does not intend, nor does it imply,
that compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution or unauthorized discharge of pollutants. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part),
2019)
18.08.060 Discharge prohibitions.
   A.   Prohibition of Illegal Discharges. No person shall discharge or cause
to be discharged into the municipal storm drain system or watercourses any
materials, including, but not limited to, pollutants or waters containing any
pollutants that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality
standards.
   B.   Exceptions. Any illegal discharge to the storm drain system is
prohibited, except as described as follows:
      1.   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this chapter: water-line flushing or other potable water
sources, landscape irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising
groundwater, groundwater infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated, pumped
groundwater, foundation or footing drains (not including active groundwater
dewatering systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning condensation, springs,
non-commercial washing of vehicles, natural riparian habitat, firefighting
activities, and any other water source not containing pollutants;
      2.   Discharges specified in writing by ADEQ as being necessary to
protect public health and safety;
      3.   Any non-stormwater discharge permitted under an AZPDES permit,
waiver or waste discharge order issued to the discharger and administered under
the authority of ADEQ, provided that the discharger is in full compliance with
all requirements of the permit, waiver or order, and other applicable laws and
regulations, and provided that written approval has been granted for any
discharge to the storm drain system.
   C.   Prohibition of Illicit Connections.
      1.   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of illicit
connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
      2.   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.08.070 Suspension of MS4 access.
   A.   Suspension Due to Illicit Discharges in Emergency Situations.
      1.   The public works director, or his or her designee, may, without
prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge access to a person, when it is necessary to
stop an actual or threatened discharge that presents, or may present, imminent
and substantial danger to the environment, or to the health or welfare of
persons, or to the MS4 or waters of the United States.
      2.   If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order issued in an
emergency, the public works director, or his or her designee, may take such
steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or waters of
the United States, or to minimize danger to persons.
   B.   Termination due to the Detection of Illicit Discharge.
      1.   Any person discharging to the MS4 in violation of this chapter may
have their MS4 access terminated, if it would abate or reduce an illicit
discharge. The public works director, or his or her designee, will notify a
violator of the proposed termination of its MS4 access. The violator may
petition the public works director, or his or her designee, for a
reconsideration and hearing.
      2.   A person commits an offense if that person reinstates MS4 access to
premises terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior approval of the
public works director or his or her designee. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.08.080 Industrial or construction activity discharges.
   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity AZPDES
stormwater discharge permit shall comply with all of its provisions. Proof of
compliance with the permit may be required in a form acceptable to the public
works director, or his or her designee, prior to the allowing of discharges to
the MS4.
(Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.08.090 Monitoring of discharges.
   A.   Applicability. This section applies to all facilities that have
stormwater discharges associated with industrial activity, including
construction activity.
   B.   Access to Facilities.
      1.   The public works director, or his or her designee, shall be
permitted to enter and inspect facilities subject to regulation under this
chapter as often as may be necessary to determine compliance with this chapter.
If a discharger has security measures in force that require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the discharger
shall make the necessary arrangements to allow access to representatives of the
public works director or his or her designee.
      2.   Facility operators shall allow the public works director, or his or
her designee, ready access toall parts of the premises for the purposes of
inspection, sampling, examination and copying of records that must be kept
under the conditions of an AZPDES permit to discharge stormwater, and the
performance of any additional duties as defined by state and federal law.
      3.   The public works director, or his or her designee, shall have the
right to set up on any permitted facility such devices as are necessary, in the
opinion of the public works director, or his or her designee, to conduct
monitoring and/or sampling of the facility's stormwater discharge.
      4.   The public works director, or his or her designee, has the right to
require the discharger to install monitoring equipment as necessary. The
facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times
in a safe and proper operating condition by the discharger at its own expense.
All devices used to measure stormwater flow and quality shall be calibrated to
ensure their accuracy.
      5.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the public works director, or his or
her designee, and shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access
shall be borne by the operator.
      6.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the public works director, or his or
her designee, access to a permitted facility is a violation of a stormwater
discharge permit and of this chapter. A person who is the operator of a
facility with an AZPDES permit to discharge stormwater associated with
industrial activity commits an offense if the person denies the public works
director, or his or her designee, reasonable access to the permitted facility
for the purpose of conducting any activity authorized or required by this
chapter.
      7.   If the public works director, or his or her designee, has been
refused access to any part of the premises from which stormwater is discharged,
and he or she is able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may
be a violation of this chapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or
sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program designed to verify
compliance with this chapter, or any order issued hereunder, or to protect the
overall public health, safety and welfare of the community, then the public
works director, or his or her designee, may seek issuance of a search warrant
from any court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.08.100 Requirement to prevent, control and reduce stormwater pollutants by
the use of best management practices.
   The city will adopt requirements identifying best management practices
(BMPs) for any activity, operation or facility that may cause or contribute to
pollution or contamination of stormwater, the storm drain system, or waters of
the U.S. The owner or operator of a commercial or industrial establishment
shall provide, at their own expense, reasonable protection from accidental
discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes into the municipal storm
drain system or watercourses through the use of these structural and non-
structural BMPs. Further, any person responsible for a property or premise,
which is, or may be, the source of an illicit discharge, may be required to
implement, at that person’s expense, additional structural and non-structural
BMPs to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the municipal separate
storm sewer system. Compliance with all terms and conditions of a valid AZPDES
permit authorizing the discharge of stormwater associated with industrial
activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed compliance with the
provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be part of a SWPPP as necessary
for compliance with requirements of the AZPDES permit. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1
(part), 2019)
18.08.110 Watercourse protection.
   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or the
person’s lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that they will not become a hazard to the use, function or physical integrity
of the watercourse. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.08.120 Notification of spills.
   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a
facility or operation, has information of any known or suspected release of
materials resulting in, or that may result in, illegal discharges or pollutants
discharging into stormwater, the storm drain system, or water of the U.S., that
person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery, containment and
cleanup of the release. In the event of a release of hazardous materials, the
person shall immediately notify emergency response agencies of the occurrence
via emergency dispatch services. In the event of a release of non-hazardous
materials, the person shall notify the public works director, or his or her
designee, in person or by phone or facsimile, no later than the next business
day. Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written notice,
addressed and mailed to the city within three business days of the phone
notice. If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or
industrial establishment, the owner or operator of that establishment shall
also retain an on-site written record of the discharge, and the actions taken
to prevent its recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three
years. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.08.130 Enforcement.
   Notice of Violation. Whenever the city finds that a person has violated a
prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this chapter, the public works
director, or his or her designee, may order compliance by written notice of
violation to the responsible person.
   A.   The notice may require without limitation:
      1.   The performance of monitoring, analyses and reporting;
      2.   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
      3.   That violating discharges, practices or operations shall cease and
desist;
      4.   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or
contamination hazards, and the restoration of any affected property;
      5.   The payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs;
and
      6.   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
   B.   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property is
required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which the remediation or
restoration must be completed. The notice shall further advise that, should the
violator fail to remediate or restore within the established deadline, the work
will be done by a designated governmental agency or a contractor, and the
expense thereof shall be charged to the violator. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part),
2019)
18.08.140 Appeal of notice of violation.
   Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of
the public works director or his or her designee. The notice of appeal must be
received within fourteen days from the date of the notice of violation. Hearing
on the appeal before the appropriate authority, or his or her designee, shall
take place within fifteen days from the date of receipt of the notice of
appeal. The decision of the municipal authority, or his or her designee, shall
be final. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.08.150 Enforcement measures after appeal.
   If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set
forth in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within
fourteen calendar days of the decision of the municipal authority upholding the
decision of the authorized enforcement agency, then representatives of the
public works director, or his or her designee, shall enter upon the subject
private property, and are authorized to take any and all measures necessary to
abate the violation and/or restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any
person, owner, agent or person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow
the government agency or designated contractor to enter upon the premises for
the purposes set forth above. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.08.160 Cost of abatement of the violation.
   A.   Within fourteen calendar days after abatement of the violation, the
owner of the property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including
administrative costs. The property owner may file a written protest objecting
to the amount of the assessment within fourteen calendar days. If the amount
due is not paid within a timely manner, as determined by the decision of the
municipal authority or by the expiration of the time in which to file an
appeal, the charges shall become a special assessment against the property, and
shall constitute a lien on the property for the amount of the assessment.
   B.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall become
liable to the city by reason of the violation. The liability shall be paid in
not more than twelve equal payments. Interest at the rate of five percent per
annum shall be assessed on the balance, beginning on the first day following
discovery of the violation. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.08.170 Injunctive relief.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to
comply with any of the requirements of this chapter. If a person has violated
or continues to violate the provisions of this chapter, the public works
director, or his or her designee, may petition for a preliminary or permanent
injunction restraining the person from activities that would create further
violations or compelling the person to perform abatement or remediation of the
violation. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.08.180 Compensatory action.
   In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties and remedies authorized by
this chapter, the public works director, or his or her designee, may impose
upon a violator alternative compensatory actions, such as storm drain
stenciling, attendance at compliance workshops, wash cleanup, etc. (Ord.
1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.08.190 Violations deemed a public nuisance.
   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter is a threat to public health, safety and welfare, and is declared
and deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the
violator’s expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin or otherwise compel
the cessation of the nuisance may be taken. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.08.200 Criminal prosecution.
   Any person that has violated or continues to violate this chapter shall be
liable to criminal prosecution to the fullest extent of the law, and shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not
to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars for each violation and/or by
imprisonment for up to six months. Such person shall be guilty of a separate
offense for each day during which the violation occurs or continues. (Ord.
1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.08.210 Recovery of fees.
   The public works director, or his or her designee, may recover all
attorney’s fees, court costs and other expenses associated with enforcement of
this chapter, including sampling and monitoring expenses. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1
(part), 2019)
18.08.220 Remedies not exclusive.
   The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal state or local law, and it is within the
discretion of the public works director, or his or her designee, to seek
cumulative remedies. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.08.230 Severability.
   If the provisions of any article, section, subsection, paragraph,
subdivision or clause of this chapter shall be judged invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, the order of judgment shall not affect or invalidate
the remainder of any article, section, subsection, paragraph, subdivision or
clause of this chapter. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
Chapter 18.12
CONSTRUCTION STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Sections:
18.12.010   Introduction; purpose.
18.12.020   Permits.
18.12.030   Review and approval.
18.12.040   Erosion and sediment control plan.
18.12.050   Design requirements.
18.12.060   Inspection.
18.12.070   Enforcement.
18.12.080   Severability.
18.12.010 Introduction; purpose.
   A.   During the construction process, soil is highly vulnerable to erosion
by wind and water. Eroded soil endangers water resources by reducing water
quality, and causing the siltation of aquatic habitat for fish and other
desirable species. Eroded soil also necessitates repair of sewers, ditches and
washes. In addition, clearing and grading during construction cause the loss of
native vegetation necessary for terrestrial and aquatic habitat.
   B.   As a result, the purpose of this local regulation is to safeguard
persons, protect property, and prevent damage to the environment in the city.
This chapter will also promote the public welfare by guiding, regulating, and
controlling the design, construction, use and maintenance of any development or
other activity that disturbs or breaks the topsoil, or results in the movement
of earth on land within the city. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.12.020 Permits.
   A.   No person shall be granted a site development permit for land-
disturbing activity that would require the uncovering of one or more acres of
land, or which will disturb less than one acre that is part of a common plan of
development, without the approval of a SWPPP by the city.
   B.   Each application shall bear the name(s) and address(es) of the owner or
developer of the site, and of any consulting firm retained by the applicant,
together with the name of the applicant’s principal contact at that firm, and
shall be accompanied by a filing fee.
   C.   Each application shall include a statement that any land clearing,
construction or development involving the movement of earth shall be in
accordance with the SWPPP, and that a certified contractor shall be on site on
all days when construction or grading activity takes place. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1
(part), 2019)
18.12.030 Review and approval.
   A.   The public works director, or his or her designee, will review each
application for a site development permit to determine its conformance with the
provisions of this regulation. Within thirty days after receiving an
application the public works director, or his or her designee, shall, in
writing:
      1.   Approve the permit application;
      2.   Approve the permit application, subject to such reasonable
conditions as may be necessary to secure substantially the objectives of this
regulation, and issue the permit subject to these conditions; or
      3.   Disapprove the permit application, indicating the reason(s) for the
disapproval, and the procedure for submitting a revised application and/or
submission. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.12.040 Erosion and sediment control plan.
   A.   The erosion and sediment control plan shall include the following:
      1.   A sequence of construction of the development site, including
stripping and clearing; rough grading; construction of utilities,
infrastructure and buildings; and final grading and landscaping. Sequencing
shall identify the expected date on which clearing will begin, the estimated
duration of exposure of cleared areas, areas of clearing, installation of
temporary erosion and sediment control measures, and establishment of permanent
vegetation.
      2.   All erosion and sediment control measures necessary to meet the
objectives of this local regulation throughout all phases of construction and
after completion of development of the site. Depending upon the complexity of
the project, the drafting of intermediate plans may be required at the close of
each season.
   B.   Modifications to the plan, may be authorized by the public works
director, or his or her designee. by written authorization to the permittee,
and shall include:
      1.   Major amendments of the erosion and sediment control plan submitted
to public works director or his or her designee; and
      2.   Field modifications of a minor nature. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part),
2019)
18.12.050 Design requirements.
   A.   Grading, erosion control practices, sediment control practices and
waterway crossings shall meet the design criteria set forth in the most recent
version of the MCFCD Drainage Policies and Standards, and shall be adequate to
prevent transportation of sediment from the site to the satisfaction of the
public works director or his or her designee.
   B.   Clearing and grading of natural resources shall not be permitted,
except when in compliance with all other chapters of this code. Clearing
techniques that retain natural vegetation and drainage patterns, as described
in the MCFCD Drainage Policies and Standards, shall be used to the satisfaction
of the public works director or his or her designee.
   C.   Phasing shall be required on all sites disturbing greater than thirty
acres, with the size of each phase to be established at plan review, and as
approved by the public works director or his or her designee.
   D.   Erosion control requirements shall include the following:
      1.   Soil stabilization shall be completed within five days of clearing
or inactivity in construction;
      2.   If seeding or another vegetative erosion control method is used, it
shall become established within two weeks, or the public works director, or his
or her designee, may require the site to be reseeded, or a nonvegetative option
employed;
      3.   Special techniques that meet the design criteria outlined in the
MCFCD Drainage Policies and Standards on steep slopes or in drainage ways shall
be used to ensure stabilization;
      4.   Soil stockpiles must be stabilized or covered at the end of each
workday;
      5.   The entire site must be stabilized, using a heavy mulch layer or
another method that does not require germination to control erosion, at the
close of the construction season;
      6.   Techniques shall be employed to prevent the blowing of dust or
sediment from the site;
      7.   Techniques that divert upland runoff past disturbed slopes shall be
employed.
   E.   Sediment controls requirements shall include:
      1.   Settling basins, sediment traps, or tanks and perimeter controls;
      2.   Settling basins that are designed in a manner that allows adaptation
to provide long-term stormwater management, if required by the public works
director or his or her designee;
      3.   Protection for adjacent properties by the use of a vegetated buffer
strip in combination with perimeter controls.
   F.   Construction site access requirements shall include:
      1.   A temporary access road provided at all sites; and
      2.   Other measures required by the public works director, or his or her
designee, in order to ensure that sediment is not tracked onto public streets
by construction vehicles or washed into storm drains. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1
(part), 2019)
18.12.060 Inspection.
   A.   The public works director, or his or her designee, shall make
inspections, as hereinafter required, and either shall approve that portion of
the work completed, or shall notify the permittee wherein the work fails to
comply with the SWPPP as approved. Plans for grading, stripping, excavating and
filling work bearing the stamp of approval of the public works director, or his
or her designee, shall be maintained at the site during the progress of the
work. To obtain inspections, the permittee shall notify the public works
director, or his or her designee, at least two working days before the
following:
      1.   The start of construction;
      2.   The installation of sediment and erosion control measures;
      3.   The completion of final grading;
      4.   The close of the construction season;
      5.   The completion of final landscaping.
   B.   The permittee, or his or her agent, shall make regular inspections of
all control measures in accordance with the inspection schedule outlined on the
approved SWPPP. The purpose of the inspections will be to determine the overall
effectiveness of the SWPPP and the need for additional control measures. All
inspections shall be documented in written form and submitted to the public
works director, or his or her designee, at the time interval specified in the
approved permit.
   C.   The public works director, or his or her designee, shall enter the
property of the applicant as deemed necessary to make regular inspections to
ensure the validity of the reports. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.12.070 Enforcement.
   A.   Stop Work Order; Revocation of Permit. In the event that any person
holding a site development permit pursuant to this chapter violates the terms
of the permit or implements site development in such a manner as to materially
adversely affect the health, welfare or safety of persons residing or working
in the neighborhood or development site so as to be materially detrimental to
the public welfare or injurious to property or improvements in the
neighborhood, the public works director, or his or her designee, may suspend or
revoke the site development permit.
   B.   Violation and Penalties. No person shall construct, enlarge, alter,
repair or maintain any grading, excavation or fill, or cause the same to be
done, contrary to or in violation of any terms of this chapter. Any person
violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a
Class 1 misdemeanor, and each day during which any violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter is committed, continued or permitted, shall
constitute a separate offense. Upon conviction of any violation, the person,
partnership or corporation shall be punished by a fine of not more than two
thousand five hundred dollars for each offense, per day. In addition to any
other penalty authorized by this section, any person, partnership or
corporation convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be required to bear the expense of such restoration. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part),
2019)
18.12.080 Severability.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this
chapter, or any part of any code or amendment adopted herein by reference, is
for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any
court of competent jurisdiction, the decision shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portions thereof. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
Chapter 18.16
POST-CONSTRUCTION STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Sections:
18.16.010   Findings of fact.
18.16.020   Purpose.
18.16.030   Applicability.
18.16.040   Compatibility with other permit and ordinance requirements.
18.16.050   Severability.
18.16.060   Permit required.
18.16.070   Notice of construction commencement.
18.16.080   As-built plans.
18.16.090   Landscaping and stabilization requirements.
18.16.100   Maintenance easement.
18.16.110   Maintenance covenant.
18.16.120   Requirements for a maintenance covenant.
18.16.130   Inspection of stormwater facilities.
18.16.140   Right of entry for inspection.
18.16.150   Records of installation and maintenance activities.
18.16.160   Failure to maintain practices.
18.16.170   Violations.
18.16.180   Notice of violation.
18.16.190   Stop work orders.
18.16.200   Civil and criminal penalties.
18.16.210   Holds on occupation permits.
18.16.010 Findings of fact.
   A.   It is hereby determined that:
      1.   Land development projects and associated increases in impervious
cover alter the hydrologic response of local watersheds, and increase
stormwater runoff rates and volumes, flooding, channel erosion, and sediment
transport and deposition;
      2.   This stormwater runoff contributes to increased quantities of water-
borne pollutants; and
      3.   Stormwater runoff, soil erosion and nonpoint source pollution can be
controlled and minimized through the regulation of stormwater runoff from
development sites.
   B.   Therefore, the city establishes this set of water quality and quantity
policies applicable to all surface waters to provide reasonable guidance for
the regulation of stormwater runoff for the purpose of protecting local water
resources from degradation. It is determined that the regulation of stormwater
runoff discharges from land development projects and other construction
activities, in order to control and minimize increases in stormwater runoff
rates and volumes, soil erosion, stream channel erosion, and nonpoint source
pollution associated with stormwater runoff, is in the public interest and will
prevent threats to public health and safety. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.16.020 Purpose.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish minimum stormwater management
requirements and controls to protect and safeguard the general health, safety
and welfare of the public residing in watersheds within this jurisdiction. This
chapter seeks to meet that purpose through the following objectives:
   A.   Minimize increases in stormwater runoff from any development in order
to reduce flooding, sillation, streambank/wash erosion, and maintain the
integrity of channels;
   B.   Minimize increases in nonpoint source pollution caused by stormwater
runoff from development that would otherwise degrade local water quality;
   C.   Minimize the total annual volume of surface water runoff that flows
from any specific site during and following development to not exceed the pre-
development hydrologic regime to the maximum extent practicable;
   D.   Reduce stormwater runoff rates and volumes, soil erosion and nonpoint
source pollution, wherever possible, through stormwater management controls,
and to ensure that these management controls are properly maintained and pose
no threat to public safety. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.16.030 Applicability.
   A.   This chapter shall be applicable to all subdivision or site plan
applications. This chapter also applies to land development activities that are
smaller than the minimum applicability criteria, if such activities are part of
a larger common plan of development that meets the following applicability
criteria, even though multiple, separate and distinct land development
activities may take place at different times on different schedules. In
addition, all plans must also be reviewed by local environmental protection
officials to ensure that established water quality standards will be maintained
during and after development of the site, and that post-construction runoff
levels are consistent with any local and regional watershed plans.
   B.   To prevent the adverse impacts of stormwater runoff, the city has
developed a set of performance standards that must be met at new development
sites. These standards apply to any construction activity disturbing one or
more acres of land, or which will disturb less than one acre that is part of a
common plan of development or sale that will ultimately disturb one acre or
more. The following activities may be exempt from these stormwater performance
criteria:
      1.   Additions or modifications to existing single-family structures;
      2.   Developments that do not disturb one or more acres of land, or which
will disturb less than one acre that is part of a common plan of development or
sale that will ultimately disturb one acre or more;
      3.   Repairs to any STPs deemed necessary by the public works director or
his or her designee.
   C.   When a site development plan is submitted that qualifies as a
redevelopment project, decisions on permitting and on-site stormwater
requirements shall be governed by special stormwater sizing criteria found in
the current MCFCD stormwater design manual. These criteria are dependent on the
amount of impervious area created by the redevelopment and its impact on water
quality. Final authorization of all redevelopment projects will be determined
after a review by the public works director or his or her designee. (Ord.
1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.16.040 Compatibility with other permit and ordinance requirements.
   This chapter is not intended to interfere with, abrogate or annul any other
ordinance, rule or regulation, stature or other provision of law. The
requirements of this chapter should be considered minimum requirements, and
where any provision of this chapter imposes restrictions different from those
imposed by any other ordinance, rule or regulation or other provision of law,
whichever provisions are more restrictive or impose higher protective standards
for human health or the environment shall be considered to take precedence.
(Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.16.050 Severability.
   If the provisions of any article, section, subsection, paragraph,
subdivision or clause of this chapter shall be judged invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, the order of judgment shall not affect or invalidate
the remainder of any article, section, subsection, paragraph, subdivision or
clause of this chapter. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.16.060 Permit required.
   No land owner or land operator shall receive any of the building, grading or
other land development permits required for land disturbance activities without
first meeting the requirements of this chapter prior to commencing the proposed
activity. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.16.080 As-built plans.
   All applicants are required to submit actual “as-built” plans for any
stormwater management practices located on site after final construction is
completed. The plan must show the final design specifications for all
stormwater management facilities, and must be sealed by an Arizona-registered,
professional engineer. A final inspection by the public works director, or his
or her designee, is required before the release of any performance securities
can occur. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.16.090 Landscaping and stabilization requirements.
   A.   Any area of land from which the natural vegetative cover has been
either partially or wholly cleared or removed by development activities shall
be re vegetated within ten days from the substantial completion of the clearing
and construction.
   B.   A landscaping plan must be submitted with the final design, describing
the vegetative stabilization and management techniques to be used at a site
after construction is completed. This plan will explain not only how the site
will be stabilized after construction, but who will be responsible for the
maintenance of vegetation at the site, and what practices will be employed to
ensure that adequate vegetative cover is preserved. This plan must be prepared
by a registered landscape architect or by the soil conservation district, and
must be approved prior to receiving a permit. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.16.100 Maintenance easement.
   Prior to the issuance of any permit that has a stormwater management
facility as one of the requirements of the permit, the applicant or owner of
the site must execute a maintenance easement agreement that shall be binding on
all subsequent owners of land served by the stormwater management facility. The
agreement shall provide for access to the facility at reasonable times for
periodic inspection by the public works director, or his or her designee, or
his or her contractor or agent, and for regular or special assessments of
property owners, to ensure that the facility is maintained in proper working
condition to meet design standards and any other provisions established by this
chapter. The easement agreement shall be recorded by the public works director,
or his or her designee, in the land records. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.16.110 Maintenance covenant.
   Maintenance of all stormwater management facilities shall be ensured through
the creation of a formal maintenance covenant that must be approved by the
public works director, or his or her designee, and recorded into the land
record prior to final plan approval. As part of the covenant, a schedule shall
be developed for when and how often maintenance will occur to ensure proper
function of the stormwater management facility. The covenant shall also include
plans for periodic inspections to ensure proper performance of the facility
between scheduled cleanouts. The public works director, or his or her designee,
in lieu of a maintenance covenant, may accept dedication of any existing or
future stormwater management facility for maintenance, provided that facility
meets all the requirements of this chapter, and includes adequate and perpetual
access and sufficient area, by easement or otherwise, for inspection and
regular maintenance. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.16.120 Requirements for a maintenance covenant.
   All stormwater management facilities must undergo, at the minimum, an annual
inspection to document maintenance and repair needs, and ensure compliance with
the requirements of this chapter and accomplishment of its purposes. These
needs may include: removal of silt, litter and other debris from all catch
basins, inlets and drainage pipes, grass cutting and vegetation removal, and
necessary replacement of landscape vegetation. Any maintenance needs found must
be addressed in a timely manner, as determined by the public works director or
his or her designee. The inspection and maintenance requirement may be
increased as deemed necessary to ensure proper functioning of the stormwater
management facility. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.16.130 Inspection of stormwater facilities.
   Inspection programs may be established on any reasonable basis, including
but not limited to: routine inspections; random inspections; inspections based
upon complaints or other notice of possible violations; inspection of drainage
basins or areas identified as higher than typical sources of sediment or other
contaminants or pollutants; inspections of businesses or industries of a type
associated with higher than usual discharges of contaminants or pollutants, or
with discharges of a type that are more likely than the typical discharge to
cause violations of state or federal water or sediment quality standards or the
AZPDES stormwater permit; and joint inspections with other agencies inspecting
under environmental or safety laws. Inspections may include, but are not
limited to: reviewing maintenance and repair records; sampling discharges,
surface water, groundwater, and material or water in drainage control
facilities; and evaluating the condition of drainage control facilities and
other STPs. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.16.140 Right of entry for inspection.
   When any new drainage control facility is installed on private property, or
when any new connection is made between private property and a public drainage
control system, sanitary sewer or combined sewer, the property owner shall
grant to the public works director, or his or her designee, the right to enter
the property at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner for the purpose of
inspection. This includes the right to enter a property when the public works
director, or his or her designee, has a reasonable basis to believe that a
violation of this chapter is occurring or has occurred, and to enter when
necessary for abatement of a public nuisance or correction of a violation of
this chapter. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.16.150 Records of installation and maintenance activities.
   Parties responsible for the operation and maintenance of a stormwater
management facility shall make records of the installation and of all
maintenance and repairs, and shall retain the records for at least five years.
These records shall be made available to the public works director, or his or
her designee, during inspection of the facility and at other reasonable times
upon request. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.16.160 Failure to maintain practices.
   If a responsible party fails or refuses to meet the requirements of the
maintenance covenant, the public works director, or his or her designee, after
reasonable notice, may correct a violation of the design standards or
maintenance needs by performing all necessary work to place the facility in
proper working condition. In the event that the stormwater management facility
becomes a danger to public safety or public health, the public works director,
or his or her designee, shall notify the party responsible for maintenance of
the stormwater management facility in writing. Upon receipt of that notice, the
responsible person shall have ten calendar days to effect maintenance and
repair of the facility in an approved manner. After proper notice, the public
works director, or his or her designee, may assess the owner(s)ofthe facility
for the cost of repair work and any penalties; and the cost of the work shall
be a lien on the property, or prorated against the beneficial users of the
property, and may be placed on the tax bill and collected as ordinary city
taxes through the county. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.16.170 Violations.
   Any development activity that is commenced or is conducted contrary to this
chapter may be restrained by injunction or otherwise abated in a manner
provided by law. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
 18.16.180 Notice of violation.
   When the public works director, or his or her designee, determines that an
activity is not being carried out in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter, it shall issue a written notice of violation to the owner of the
property. The notice of violation shall contain:
   A.   The name and address of the owner or applicant;
   B.   The address, when available, or a description of the building,
structure or land upon which the violation is occurring;
   C.   A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
   D.   A description of the remedial measures necessary to bring the
development activity into compliance with this chapter, and a time schedule for
the completion of the remedial action;
   E.   A statement of the penalty or penalties that shall or may be assessed
against the person to whom the notice of violation is directed;
   F.   A statement that the determination of violation may be appealed to the
municipality by filing a written notice of appeal within fifteen days of
service of the notice of violation. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.16.190 Stop work orders.
   Persons receiving a notice of violation will be required to halt all
construction activities. This “stop work order” will be in effect until the
public works director, or his or her designee, confirms that the development
activity is in compliance and the violation has been satisfactorily addressed.
Failure to address a notice of violation in a timely manner can result in
civil, criminal or monetary penalties in accordance with the enforcement
measures authorized in this chapter. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
18.16.200 Civil and criminal penalties.
   In addition to or as an alternative to any penalty provided herein or by
law, any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to
exceed two thousand five hundred dollars for each violation, and/or by
imprisonment for up to six months. Such person shall be guilty of a separate
offense for each day during which the violation occurs or continues. (Ord.
1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019; Res. 5199 (part), 2019)
18.16.210 Holds on occupation permits.
   Occupation permits will not be granted until corrections to all stormwater
practices have been made and accepted by the public works director or his or
her designee. (Ord. 1397.18, § 1 (part), 2019)
STATUTORY REFERENCES
STATUTORY REFERENCES FOR
ARIZONA CITES AND TOWNS
   The statutory references direct the code user to those portions of the state
statutes that are applicable to the laws of the municipality. This reference
list is up-to-date through July, 1998.
General Provisions
Penalties
ARS § 9-240(28)(b)
Adoption of codes
ARS §§ 9-801—9-811
Elections
ARS §§ 9-821—9-825
General powers
ARS §§ 9-240, 9-276
Administration and Personnel
Mayor and council
ARS §§ 9-231—9-240
City or town manager
ARS § 9-303
Civil defense
ARS § 26-308
Police courts
ARS Title 22 Ch. 4
Police force
ARS § 9-240(R)
Public library
ARS §§ 9-411—9-420
Revenue and Finance
Claims against city or town
ARS §§ 9-247—9-250
Municipal improvement districts
ARS § 48-501 et seq.
Taxing power
ARS §§ 9-220 and 9-240(26)
Special assessments
ARS § 9-276(23)
Business Licenses and Regulation
Business license tax
ARS § 9-240(18)—(19)
Prohibition of certain businesses
ARS § 9-0276(18)
Animals
Dog regulation
ARS § 9-240(16)
Health and Safety
Health regulations
ARS §§ 9-240(20)—(22)
Local boards of health
ARS §§ 36-165 et seq. and 9-276(17)
Nuisances
ARS §§ 9-240(21)(a), 9-276(16)
Fire prevention
ARS § 9-240(7)
Litter and weed removal
ARS § 9-499
Food sales
AS § 9-276(11)
Public Peace, Morals and Welfare
Nuisances
ARS § 9-276(16)
Police powers
ARS §§ 9-240(12)—9-240(15), 9-240(17), 9-240(24), 9-240(28)
Prostitution
ARS § 9-240(17)
Vehicles and Traffic
State traffic code
ARS Title 28
Local traffic regulations
ARS §§ 28-626—28-627
Rules of the road
ARS §§ 28-601 et seq.
Civil traffic violations
ARS §§ 28-626(B), 28-1071—28-1080
Abandoned vehicles
ARS § 28-4801 et seq.
Streets and Sidewalks
Camping and use of public property
ARS § 13-717 and 36-881(3)
General power over streets
ARS §§ 9-240(3) and 9-276
Sidewalk construction
ARS § 9-243
Public parks
ARS § 9-494
Cemeteries
ARS § 9-240(9)
Public Services
Sanitary sewer districts
ARS § 9-276(21)
Waterworks
ARS § 9-240(6)
Buildings and Construction
Building code
ARS §§ 9-240(7), 9-276(14)
Gas utilities
ARS § 9-276(B)
Subdivisions
Subdivision regulations
ARS § 9-463 et seq.
Zoning
Municipal zoning
ARS § 9-462 et seq.
TABLES
PRIOR CODE CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE
   This table provides users with the legislative history and the current
disposition of the sections in the prior Casa Grande municipal code.
   Thus, prior code Section 8-2-2 was derived from Ordinance 617.6, and
currently appears in this code in Section
6.12.020.
   The legislative history information was derived from The Code of the City of
Casa Grande, published by authority of the Common Council, and effective
January 4, 1971.
Prior Code §Ordinance History Herein
Prior Code §  Ordinance History                 Herein
Art. 1-1                                        1.04.010
Art. 1-2                                        1.04.030 
1-3-1                                           1.04.040
1-3-2                                           1.04.050
1-3-3                                           1.04.060
1-3-4                                           1.04.060
1-3-5                                           1.04.060
1-3-6                                           1.04.060
1-3-7                                           1.04.060
1-3-8                                           1.04.060
1-3-9                                           1.04.040
1-3-10                                          1.04.060
1-3-11                                          1.04.070
1-3-12                                          1.04.060
1-3-13                                          1.04.060
1-3-14                                          1.04.060
1-3-15                                          1.04.060
1-3-16                                          1.04.060
1-3-17                                          1.04.060
1-3-18                                          1.04.060
1-3-19                                          1.04.060
1-3-20                                          1.04.060
1-3-21                                          1.04.060
1-3-22                                          1.04.060
1-3-23                                          1.04.060
1-3-24                                          1.04.060
1-3-25                                          1.04.040
1-3-26                                          1.04.080
1-3-27                                          1.04.090
1-3-28                                          1.04.060
1-3-29                                          1.04.060
1-3-30                                          1.04.060
1-4-1                                           1.04.100
1-4-2                                           1.04.110
1-4-3                                           1.04.120
1-4-4                                           1.04.130
Art. 1-5                                        1.04.140
Art. 1-6                                        1.04.150
Art. 1-7                                        1.04.160
Art. 1-8                                        1.08.010
1-9                                             Not codified
1-9-1                                           Not codified
1-9-2                                           Not codified
1-10                                            Not codified
1-11           Ord. 1086                         Repealed by 1086.1
1-12           Ord. 1086                         Repealed by 1086.2
1-12-1                                          3.12.020
1-12-2                                          Repealed by 1397.03.4
1-12-3                                          3.12.040
1-12-4                                          3.12.010
2-1-1                                           Repealed by 1368
2-1-2                                           Repealed by 1368
2-1-3                                           Repealed by 1368
2-1-4                                           Repealed by 1368
2-1-5                                           Repealed by 1368
2-1-6                                           Repealed by 1368
2-1-7                                           Repealed by 1368
Art. 2-2                                        Repealed by 1368
2-2-1                                           Not codified
2-2-2          Ord. 681, effective April 2, 1979 Not codified
2-2-3                                           Not codified
2-2-4                                           Not codified
2-2-5                                           Not codified
2-2-6                                           Not codified
2-3-1                                           Repealed by 1368
2-3-2                                           Repealed by 1368
2-3-3                                           Repealed by 1368
2-3-4                                           Repealed by 1368
2-4-1                                           2.04.010
2-4-2                                           Repealed by 1368
2-4-3                                           Repealed by 1368
2-4-4                                           Repealed by 1368
2-4-5                                           2.04.020
2-4-6                                           Repealed by 1397.02.08
2-4-7                                           Repealed by 1368
2-4-8                                           2.04.040
2-5-1                                           Repealed by 1368
2-5-2                                           Repealed by 1368
2-5-3                                           Repealed by 1368
2-5-4                                           Repealed by 1368
2-5-5                                           Repealed by 1368
2-5-6                                           Repealed by 1368
2-5-7                                           Repealed by 1368
2-5-8                                           Repealed by 1368
2-5-9                                           Repealed by 1368
3-1-1                                           2.36.010
3-1-2                                           2.36.020
3-1-3                                           2.36.030
3-1-4                                           2.36.040
3-2-1                                           2.36.050
3-2-2                                           2.36.060
3-2-3                                           2.36.070
3-2-4                                           2.36.080
3-2-5                                           2.36.090
4-1-1                                           Repealed by 1368
4-1-2                                           Repealed by 1368
4-1-3                                           Repealed by 1368
4-1-4                                           Repealed by 1368
4-1-5                                           Repealed by 1368
4-1-6                                           Repealed by 1368
4-2-1                                           Repealed by 1368
4-2-2                                           Repealed by 1368
4-2-3                                           Repealed by 1368
4-2-4                                           Repealed by 1368
4-2-5                                           Repealed by 1368
4-2-6                                           Repealed by 1368
4-2-7                                           Repealed by 1368
4-2-8                                           Repealed by 1368
4-2-9                                           Repealed by 1368
4-2-10                                          Repealed by 1368
4-3-1                                           Ch. 2.08
4-3-2                                           Ch. 2.12
4-4-1                                           2.40.010
4-4-2                                           2.40.020
4-4-3                                           2.40.030
4-4-4                                           2.40.040
5-1-1                                           2.16.010
5-1-2                                           2.16.020
5-1-3                                           2.16.030
5-1-4                                           2.16.040
5-1-5                                           2.16.050
5-1-6                                           2.16.060
5-1-7                                           2.16.070
5-1-8                                           2.16.080
5-1-9                                           2.16.090
5-1-10                                          2.16.100
5-1-11                                          2.16.110
5-1-12(A)                                       Repealed by 1397.08.19
5-1-12(B)                                       Repealed by 1397.08.19
5-1-12(C)                                       Repealed by 1397.08.19
5-1-12(D)                                       Repealed by 1397.08.19
5-1-12(E)                                       Repealed by 1397.08.19
5-1-12(F)                                       Repealed by 1397.08.19
5-1-12(G)                                       Repealed by 1397.08.19
5-1-12(H)                                       Repealed by 1397.08.19
5-1-12(I)                                       Repealed by 1397.08.19
5-1-12(J)                                       Repealed by 1397.08.19
5-1-12(K)                                       Repealed by 1397.08.19
5-1-12(L)                                       Repealed by 1397.08.19
5-1-12(M)                                       Repealed by 1397.08.19
5-1-12(N)                                       Not codified
5-1-12(O)                                       Repealed by 1397.08.19
5-1-12(P)                                       Repealed by 1397.08.19
5-2-1                                           2.20.010
5-2-2                                           2.20.020
5-2-3                                           2.20.030
5-2-4                                           2.20.050
5-2-5                                           2.20.060
5-2-6                                           2.20.070
5-2-7                                           2.20.080
5-2-8                                           2.20.090
5-2-9                                           2.20.100
5-2-10                                          2.20.040
5-2-11(A)                                       8.20.020
5-2-11(B)                                       8.20.010
5-2-11(C)                                       8.20.060
5-2-11(D)                                       8.20.070
5-2-11(E)                                       8.20.030
5-2-11(F)                                       8.20.040
5-3-1          Ord. 937                          Repealed and replaced by 1362
5-3-2          Ord. 937                          2.20.110
5-3-3          Ord. 937                          Repealed and replaced by 1362
5-3-4          Ord. 937                          Repealed and replaced by 1362
5-3-5          Ord. 937                          Repealed and replaced by 1362
5-3-6          Ord. 937                          Repealed and replaced by 1362
5-3-7          Ord. 937.1; Ord. 937              Repealed and replaced by 1362
5-3-8          Ord. 937                          Repealed and replaced by 1362
5-3-9          Ord. 937                          Repealed and replaced by 1362
5-3-10         Ord. 937                          Repealed and replaced by 1362
5-3-11         Ord. 937                          Not codified
6-1-1                                           2.24.010
6-1-2                                           2.24.020
Art. 6-2                                        2.24.030
6-3-1                                           2.24.040
6-3-2                                           2.24.060
6-3-3                                           2.24.070
Art. 6-4                                        2.24.050
6-5-1                                           2.24.080
6-5-2                                           2.24.090
7-1-1                                           2.32.020
7-1-2                                           2.32.010
7-2-1                                           2.32.030
7-2-2                                           2.32.040
7-3-1                                           2.32.050
7-3-2                                           2.32.060
Art. 7-4                                        2.32.070
Art. 7-5                                        2.32.080
7-6-1                                           2.32.090
7-6-2                                           2.32.100
Art. 7-7                                        2.32.110
Art. 7-8                                        2.32.120
Art. 7-9                                        2.32.130
7-10                                            2.32.140
8-1-1                                           6.08.090
8-1-2                                           6.08.100
8-1-3                                           6.08.060
8-1-4                                           6.08.050
8-1-5                                           6.08.040
8-1-6                                           6.08.070
8-1-7                                           6.08.080
8-2-1                                           6.12.010
8-2-2          Ord. 617.6                        6.12.020
8-2-3          Ord. 617.6                        6.12.030
8-2-4          Ord. 617.6                        6.12.040
8-2-5                                           6.12.050
8-2-6                                           6.12.060
8-2-7                                           6.12.070
8-2-8          Ord. 617.6                        6.12.080 —
                                                 6.12.090
8-2-9                                           6.12.100
8-2-10                                          6.12.110
8-3-1                                           6.04.010
8-3-2          Ord. 847                          6.04.020
8-3-3                                           6.04.030
8-3-4          Ord. 617.6                        6.04.040
8-3-5          Ord. 617.6                        6.04.050
8-3-6                                           6.04.060
8-3-7                                           6.08.020
8-3-8                                           6.08.010
8-3-9                                           6.08.030
8-3-10         Ord. 617.6                        6.08.110
8-3-11         Ord. 617.6                        6.04.070
8-3-12         Ord. 617.6                        6.04.080
9-1-1                                           Repealed by 1397.15.9
9-1-2                                           Repealed by 1397.15.9
9-1-3                                           Repealed by 936.14
9-1-3(A)                                        Repealed by 1397.15.9
9-1-3(B)                                        Repealed by 1397.15.9
9-1-3(C)                                        Repealed by 1397.15.9
9-1-3(D)                                        Repealed by 1397.15.9
9-1-3(E)                                        Repealed by 1397.15.9
9-1-3(F)                                        Repealed by 1397.15.9
9-1-3(G)                                        Repealed by 1397.15.9
9-1-3(H)                                        Repealed by 1397.15.9
9-1-3(I)                                        Repealed by 1397.15.9
9-1-3(J)                                        Repealed by 1397.15.9
9-1-3(K)                                        Repealed by 1397.15.9
9-1-3(L)                                        Repealed by 1397.15.9
9-1-4                                           Repealed by 1397.15.9
9-1-5                                           Repealed by 1397.15.8
9-2-1                                           Repealed by 1397.15.8
9-2-2                                           Repealed by 1397.15.8
9-2-3                                           Repealed by 1397.15.8
9-2-4                                           Repealed by 1397.15.8
9-2-5                                           Repealed by 1397.15.8
9-2-6(A)                                        Repealed by 1397.15.8
9-2-6(B)                                        Repealed by 1397.15.8
9-2-6(C)                                        Repealed by 1397.15.8
9-2-6(D)                                        Repealed by 1397.15.8
9-2-6(E)                                        Repealed by 1397.15.8
9-2-6(F)                                        Repealed by 1397.15.8
9-2-6(G)                                        Repealed by 1397.15.8
9-2-6(H)                                        Repealed by 1397.15.8
9-2-6(I)                                        Repealed by 1397.15.8
9-2-6(J)                                        Repealed by 1397.15.8
9-2-6(K)                                        Repealed by 1397.15.8
9-2-6(L)                                        Repealed by 1397.15.8
9-3-1                                           Repealed by 1397.15.12
9-3-2                                           Repealed by 1397.15.12
9-3-3                                           Repealed by 1397.15.12
9-3-4                                           Repealed by 1397.15.12
9-4-1                                           Repealed by 1397.15.16
9-4-2                                           Repealed by 1397.15.16
9-4-3                                           Repealed by 1397.15.16
9-4-4                                           Repealed by 1397.15.16
9-5-1                                           Repealed by 1397.15.15
9-5-2                                           Repealed by 1397.15.15
9-5-3                                           Repealed by 1397.15.15
9-5-4                                           Repealed by 1397.15.15
9-6-1          Ord. 936                          15.44.010
9-6-2          Ord. 936                          15.44.020
9-6-3          Ord. 936                          15.44.030
9-6-4          Ord. 936                          15.44.040
9-7-1          Ord. 936                          15.24.010
9-8            Ord. 936                          15.24
9-9-1          Ord. 936.1                        Repealed by 1397.15.13
9-9-2          Ord. 936.1                        Repealed by 1397.15.13
10-1                                            Repealed by 1309
10-1-1                                          Repealed by 1309
10-1-2                                          Repealed by 1309
10-1-3                                          Repealed by 1309
10-1-4                                          Repealed by 1309
10-1-5                                          Repealed by 1309
10-1-6                                          Repealed by 1309
10-1-7                                          Repealed by 1309
10-1-8                                          Repealed by 1309
10-1-9                                          Repealed by 1309
10A-1                                           Repealed by 1474
10A-100                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-110                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-115                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-120                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-200                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-210                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-220                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-230                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-240                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-250                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-260                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-270                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-280                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-285                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-290                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-300                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-305                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-310                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-315                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-320                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-330                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-350                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-360                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-370                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-400                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-405                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-407                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-410                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-415                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-416                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-417                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-418                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-420                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-425                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-430                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-435                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-440        (Reserved)                        Repealed by 1474
10A-445                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-446                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-450                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-455                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-460                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-465                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-470                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-475                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-480                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-500                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-510                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-520                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-530                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-540                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-545                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-550                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-555                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-560                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-565                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-567                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-570                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-571                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-575                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-577                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-580                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-590                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-595                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-600                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-601                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-602                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-610                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-620                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-630                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-640                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-650                                         Repealed by 1474
10A-660                                         Repealed by 1474
10-3-1         Ord. 536.3                        Repealed by 1397.05.3
10-3-2         Ord. 849; Ord. 536.3              Repealed by 1397.05.3
10-3-3                                          Repealed by 1397.05.3
10-3-4         Ord. 536.3                        Repealed by 1397.05.3
10-3-5                                          Repealed by 1397.05.3
10-3-6                                          Repealed by 1397.05.3
10-3-7                                          Repealed by 1397.05.3
10-3-8                                          Repealed by 1397.05.3
10-3-9                                          Repealed by 1397.05.3
10-3-10                                         Repealed by 1397.05.3
10-3-11                                         Deleted
10-3-12                                         Repealed by 1397.05.3
10-3-13                                         Repealed by 1397.05.3
10-3-14                                         Repealed by 1397.05.3
10-3-15                                         Repealed by 1397.05.3
10-3-16                                         Repealed by 1397.05.3
10-3-17                                         Repealed by 1397.05.3
10-4-1                                          5.08.010
10-4-2                                          5.08.020
10-4-3                                          5.08.030
10-4-4                                          5.08.040
10-4-5                                          5.08.050
10-5-1                                          Repealed by 1397.05.1
10-5-2                                          Repealed by 1307.05.1
10-5-3                                          Repealed by 1307.05.1
10-6-1                                          5.20.010
10-6-2                                          5.20.020
10-6-3                                          5.20.040
10-6-4                                          5.20.050
10-6-5                                          5.20.060
10-6-6                                          5.20.070
10-6-7                                          5.20.080
10-6-8                                          5.20.090
10-6-9                                          5.20.100
10-6-10                                         5.20.110
10-6-11                                         5.20.120
10-6-12                                         Repealed by 1368
10-6-13                                         5.20.130
10-6-14                                         5.20.030
10-6-15                                         5.20.140
10-6-16                                         5.20.150
11-1-1                                          8.08.010
11-1-2         Ord. 645.3                        8.08.020
11-1-3(A)                                       Repealed by 1397.08.2
11-1-3(B)                                       Repealed by 1397.08.2
11-1-3(C)                                       Repealed by 1397.08.2
11-1-3(D)                                       Repealed by 1397.08.2
11-1-4         Ord. 645.3                        8.08.070
11-1-5                                          8.08.180
11-1-6         Ord. 645.7                        8.08.190
11-1-7         Ord. 645.3; Ord. 645.7            8.08.080
11-1-8         Ord. 645.3                        8.08.090
               Ord. 645.12; Ord. 645.14; Ord.
11-1-9         645.10; Ord. 645.13; Ord. 645.7;  8.08.100
               Ord. 645.8
11-1-10        Ord. 645.7                        8.08.110
11-1-11                                         8.08.120
11-1-12                                         8.08.130
11-1-13                                         8.08.140
11-1-14                                         8.08.150
11-1-15        Ord. 645.10                       8.08.160
11-1-16        Ord. 645.6                        8.08.170
11-2-1                                          8.04.010
11-2-2                                          Repealed by 1397.08.07
11-3-1                                          Repealed by 1397.08.07
11-3-2                                          Repealed by 1397.08.07
11-3-3                                          Repealed by 1397.08.07
11-3-4                                          Repealed by 1397.08.07
11-3-5                                          Repealed by 1397.08.07
11-3-6                                          Repealed by 1397.08.07
11-3-7                                          Repealed by 1397.08.07
11-3-8                                          Repealed by 1397.08.07
11-3-9                                          Repealed by 1397.08.07
11-3-10                                         Repealed by 1397.08.07
11-3-11                                         Repealed by 1397.08.07
11-3-12                                         Repealed by 1397.08.07
11-3-13                                         Repealed by 1397.08.07
11-3-14                                         Repealed by 1397.08.07
11-3-15                                         Repealed by 645.19
11-3-16                                         Repealed by 1397.08.07
11-3-17                                         Repealed by 1397.08.07
11-3-18                                         Repealed by 1397.08.07
11-3-19                                         Repealed by 1397.08.07
Art. 11-4                                       13.16.010
11-4-1                                          13.16.020
11-4-2                                          13.16.030
11-4-3                                          13.16.040
11-5-1                                          Repealed by 1397.08.07
11-5-2                                          Repealed by 1397.08.07
11-5-3                                          Repealed by 1397.08.07
11-5-4                                          Repealed by 1397.08.07
11-5-5                                          Repealed by 1397.08.07
12-1-1                                          Repealed by 1368
12-1-2(A)                                       Repealed by 1397.09.1
12-1-2(B)                                       Repealed by 1397.09.1
12-1-2(C)                                       Repealed by 1397.09.1
12-1-2(D)                                       Repealed by 1397.09.1
12-1-2(E)                                       9.12.020
12-1-3                                          Repealed by 1368
12-1-4                                          Repealed by 1368
12-1-5                                          9.20.010
12-1-6                                          9.04.010
12-1-7                                          Repealed by 1397.09.1
12-1-8                                          Repealed by 1397.09.1
12-1-9                                          Repealed by 1356
12-1-10                                         Repealed by 1368
12-1-11                                         Repealed by 1368
12-1-12                                         Repealed by 1368
12-1-13                                         Repealed by 1397.09.1
12-1-14                                         Repealed by 1397.09.1
12-1-15                                         Repealed by 1368
12-1-16                                         9.12.050
12-1-17                                         Repealed by 1368
12-1-18                                         Repealed by 1368
12-1-19                                         Repealed by 1368
12-1-20                                         Repealed by 1368
12-1-21(A)                                      Repealed by 1397.09.1
12-1-21(B)                                      Repealed by 1397.09.1
12-1-21(C)                                      Repealed by 1397.09.1
12-1-21(D)                                      Repealed by 1397.09.1
12-1-21(E)                                      Repealed by 1397.09.1
12-1-21(F)                                      Repealed by 1397.09.1
12-1-21(G)                                      Repealed by 1397.09.1
12-1-21(H)                                      Repealed by 1397.09.1
12-1-21(I)                                      Repealed by 1397.09.1
12-1-22                                         9.12.060
12-1-23                                         9.12.070
12-1-24                                         Repealed by 1397.09.1
12-1-25                                         9.12.090
12-1-26(A)                                      9.20.020
12-1-26(B)                                      9.20.030
12-1-26(C)                                      Repealed by 1397.09.1
12-1-26(D)                                      9.20.050
12-1-26(E)                                      9.20.060
12-1-26(F)                                      9.20.070
12-1-26(G)                                      9.20.080
12-1-27        Ord. 624                          9.08.020
12-1-28(A)     Ord. 736                          9.16.010
12-1-28(B)                                      9.16.020
12-1-28(C)                                      9.16.020
12-1-28(D)                                      9.16.030
12-1-28(E)                                      9.16.040
12-1-28(F)                                      9.16.050
12-1-29                                         10.08.180
Art.13-1(part) Ord. 379.8                        13.08.010
Art. 13-1(A)                                    13.08.030
Art. 13-1(B)                                    13.08.090
Art. 13-1(C)                                    13.08.220
Art. 13-1(D)                                    13.08.290
Art. 13-1(E)                                    13.08.280
Art. 13-1(F)                                    13.08.130
Art. 13-1(G)                                    13.08.020
Art. 13-1(H)                                    13.08.140
Art. 13-1(I)                                    13.08.250
Art. 13-1(J)                                    13.08.210
Art. 13-1(K)                                    13.08.180
Art. 13-1(L)                                    13.08.060
Art. 13-1(M)                                    13.08.200
Art. 13-1(N)                                    13.08.240
Art. 13-1(O)                                    Repealed by 1397.08.26
Art. 13-1(P)                                    13.08.100
Art. 13-1(Q)                                    13.08.170
Art. 13-1(R)                                    13.08.150
Art. 13-1(S)                                    13.08.300
Art. 13-1(T)                                    Repealed by 1397.08.26
Art. 13-1(U)                                    Repealed by 1397.08.26
Art. 13-1(V)                                    13.08.230
Art. 13-1(W)                                    13.08.080
Art. 13-1(X)                                    13.08.110
Art. 13-1(Y)                                    13.08.260
Art. 13-1(Z)                                    13.08.270
Art. 13-1(AA)                                   13.08.050
Art. 13-1(BB)                                   13.08.070
Art. 13-1(CC)                                   Deleted by 1397.13.19
13-2-1                                          13.08.310
13-2-2         Ord. 379.8; Ord. 379.7; Ord.      13.08.320
               379.9; Ord. 379.5; Ord. 379.4
13-2-3                                          13.08.330
13-2-4                                          13.08.340
13-2-5                                          13.08.350
13-3-1                                          13.08.360
13-3-2                                          13.08.370
13-3-3                                          13.08.380
13-3-4                                          13.08.390
13-3-5                                          13.08.400
13-4-1                                          13.08.410
13-4-2                                          13.08.420
13-4-3                                          13.08.430
13-4-4                                          13.08.440
13-4-5                                          13.08.450
13-4-6                                          13.08.460
13-4-7                                          13.08.470
13-4-8                                          13.08.480
13-4-9                                          13.08.490
13-4-10                                         Repealed by 1397.08.26
13-5-1                                          13.08.510
13-5-2                                          13.08.520
13-5-3                                          13.08.530
13-5-4                                          13.08.540
13-5-5                                          13.08.550
13-5-6                                          13.08.560
13-5-7                                          13.08.570
14-1                                            Repealed by 1179
14-2                                            Repealed by 1179
14-3                                            Repealed by 1179
14-4                                            Repealed by 1179
14-5                                            Repealed by 1179
14-6                                            Repealed by 1179
14-7                                            Repealed by 1179
14-8                                            Repealed by 1179
14-9                                            Repealed by 1179
15-1-1                                          10.04.010
15-1-2                                          10.04.020
15-1-3                                          10.04.030
15-1-4                                          10.04.040
15-1-5                                          10.04.050
15-1-6                                          10.04.060
15-1-7                                          10.04.070
15-2-1                                          10.08.010
15-2-2                                          10.08.020
15-2-3                                          10.08.030
15-2-4                                          10.08.040
15-2-5                                          10.08.050
15-2-6                                          10.08.060
15-2-7                                          10.08.070
15-2-8                                          10.08.080
15-2-9                                          10.08.090
15-2-10                                         10.08.100
15-2-11                                         10.08.110
15-2-12                                         10.08.120
15-2-13                                         10.08.130
15-2-14                                         10.08.140
15-2-15                                         10.08.150
15-2-16                                         10.08.160
15-2-17        Ord. 526.3                        10.08.170
15-3-1                                          10.08.190
15-3-2                                          10.08.200
15-3-3                                          10.08.210
15-3-4                                          10.08.220
15-3-5                                          10.08.230
15-3-6                                          10.08.240
15-3-7                                          Not codified
15-3-8                                          10.12.010
15-3-9                                          10.12.020
15-3-10                                         10.12.030
15-4-1                                          Repealed by 1397.10.06
15-4-2                                          Repealed by 1397.10.06
15-4-3                                          Repealed by 1397.10.06
15-4-4                                          Repealed by 1397.10.06
15-4-5                                          Repealed by 1397.10.06
15-5-1                                          10.20.020
15-5-2                                          10.20.030
15-5-3                                          10.20.040
15-5-4                                          10.20.010
16-1-1                                          15.36.010
16-1-2                                          15.36.040
16-2-1                                          15.36.110
16-2-2                                          15.36.050
16-2-3                                          15.36.060
16-2-4                                          15.36.070
16-2-5                                          15.36.080
16-2-6                                          15.36.090
16-2-7                                          15.36.100
16-2-8                                          15.36.120
16-2-9                                          15.36.130
16-2-10                                         15.36.140
16-2-11                                         15.36.150
16-2-12                                         15.36.020
16-2-13                                         15.36.030
17-1-1                                          Repealed by 1397.15.22
17-1-2                                          Repealed by 1397.15.22
17-1-3                                          Repealed by 1397.15.22
                                                 15.40.010,
                                                 15.40.030,
                                                 15.40.040 —
                                                 15.40.060,
                                                 15.40.120,
                                                 15.40.130,
                                                 15.40.140,
                                                 15.40.160 —
                                                 15.40.250,
                                                 15.40.280 —
                                                 15.40.310,
                                                 15.40.330,
Art. 17-2                                       15.40.340,
                                                 15.40.360 —
                                                 15.40.380 
                                                 15.40.390,
                                                 15.40.410 
                                                 15.40.440,
                                                 15.40.450 —
                                                 15.40.470,
                                                 15.40.480,
                                                 15.40.500,
                                                 15.40.510,
                                                 15.40.520,
                                                 15.40.530,
                                                 15.40.535
17-3-1                                          15.40.560
17-3-2                                          15.40.580
17-3-3                                          Repealed by 1397.15.22
17-3-4                                          Repealed by 1397.15.22
17-3-5                                          15.40.590
17-3-6                                          15.40.600
17-3-7                                          15.40.610
17-3-8                                          15.40.700
17-3-9                                          Repealed by 1397.15.22
17-3-10                                         15.40.705
17-3-11                                         Repealed by 1397.15.22
17-3-12                                         Not codified
17-4-1                                          15.40.730
17-4-1(A)                                       Repealed by 1397.15.22
17-4-1(B)                                       Repealed by 1397.15.22
17-4-1(C)                                       Repealed by 1397.15.22
17-4-1(D)                                       Repealed by 1397.15.22
17-4-1(E)                                       Repealed by 1397.15.22
17-4-1(F)                                       Repealed by 1397.15.22
17-4-1(G)                                       Repealed by 1397.15.22
17-4-1(H)                                       15.40.740,
                                                 15.40.760
17-4-1(I)                                       Repealed by 1397.15.22
17-4-1(J)                                       Repealed by 1397.15.22
17-4-1(K)                                       Repealed by 1397.15.22
17-4-1(L)                                       15.40.770
17-4-1(M)                                       Repealed by 1397.15.22
17-4-2.1                                        15.40.620
17-4-2.2                                        15.40.630
17-4-2.3                                        15.40.640
17-4-2.4                                        15.40.650
17-4-2.5                                        15.40.660
17-4-2.6                                        15.40.670
17-4-2.7                                        15.40.710
17-4-2.8                                        15.40.680
17-5-1                                          Repealed by 1397.15.22
17-5-1.1                                        Repealed by 1397.15.22
17-5-1.2                                        Repealed by 1397.15.22
17-5-1.3                                        15.40.750
17-5-2.1                                        15.40.780
17-5-2.2                                        15.40.790
17-5-3.1                                        Repealed by 1397.15.22
17-5-3.2                                        Repealed by 1397.15.22
17-5-3.3                                        Repealed by 1397.15.22
17-5-4.1                                        15.40.850
17-5-4.2                                        15.40.860
17-5-4.3                                        15.40.870
17-5-4.4                                        15.40.880
17-5-5.1                                        Repealed by 1397.15.22
17-5-5.2                                        Repealed by 1397.15.22
17-5-5.3                                        Repealed by 1397.15.22
17-5-6                                          15.40.810
17-5-6.1                                        15.40.820
17-5-6.2                                        15.40.830
17-5-6.3                                        15.40.840
17-5-6.4                                        Repealed by 1397.15.22
17-5-6.5                                        Repealed by 1397.15.22
17-6-1.1                                        15.40.890
17-6-1.2                                        15.40.900
17-6-1.3                                        15.40.910
17-6-1.4                                        15.40.920
17-6-1.5                                        15.40.930
17-6-1.6                                        Repealed by 1397.15.22
17-6-1.7                                        15.40.950
17-6-2.1                                        15.40.960
17-6-2.2                                        15.40.970
17-6-2.3                                        15.40.980
17-6-2.4                                        15.40.990
17-6-2.5                                        15.40.1000
Art. 17-7                                       Repealed by 1397.15.5
17-7-1                                          Repealed by 1397.15.5
17-7-2                                          Repealed by 1397.15.5
17-7-3                                          Repealed by 1397.15.5
17-7-4(A)                                       Repealed by 1397.15.5
17-7-4(B)                                       Repealed by 1397.15.5
17-7-4(C)                                       Repealed by 1397.15.5
17-7-5                                          Repealed by 1397.15.5
17-7-6                                          Repealed by 1397.15.5
17-7-7                                          Repealed by 1397.15.5
17-7-8                                          Repealed by 1397.15.5
17-7-9                                          Repealed by 1397.15.5
17-7-10                                         Repealed by 1397.15.5
Art. 18-1                                       12.04.010
18-2                                            12.04
18-2-1                                          12.04.090
18-2-2                                          12.04.100
18-2-3                                          12.04.110
18-2-4                                          12.04.120
18-3-1                                          12.04.130
18-3-2                                          12.04.140
18-3-3                                          12.04.150
18-3-4                                          12.04.160
18-3-5                                          12.04.170
18-3-6                                          12.04.180
18-3-7                                          12.04.190
18-3-8                                          12.04.200
18-4-1                                          12.04.020
18-4-2                                          12.04.030
18-4-3                                          12.04.040
18-4-4                                          12.04.050
18-4-5                                          12.04.060
18-4-6                                          12.04.070
18-4-7                                          12.04.080
18-5-1                                          12.04.210
18-5-2                                          12.04.220
Art. 18-6      Ord. 854                          12.04.230
Art. 19-1                                       15.32.010
Art. 19-2                                       15.32.020
19-3(1)                                         15.32.040
19-3(2)                                         15.32.050
19-3(3)                                         15.32.060
19-3(4)                                         15.32.070
19-3(5)                                         15.32.080
Art. 19-4                                       15.32.090
Art. 19-5                                       15.32.100
Art. 19-5(1)                                    15.32.110
Art. 19-5(2)                                    15.32.120
Art. 19-5(3)                                    15.32.130
Art. 19-5(4)                                    15.32.140
Art. 19-5(5)                                    15.32.150
Art. 19-5(6)                                    15.32.160
Art. 19-5(7)                                    15.32.170
Art. 19-5(8)                                    15.32.180
Art. 19-5(9)                                    15.32.190
Art. 19-6                                       15.32.030
19-7                                            15.32.200
19-8                                            15.32.210
19-9                                            15.32.220
Chapter 20                                      Repealed by 1397.08.26
1.1                                             Repealed by 1397.08.26
1.2                                             13.12.020
1.3                                             Repealed by 1397.08.26
2.1                                             Repealed by 1397.08.26
2.2                                             Repealed by 1397.08.26
2.3                                             Repealed by 1397.08.26
2.4                                             Repealed by 1397.08.26
2.5                                             Repealed by 1397.08.26
2.6                                             Repealed by 1397.08.26
2.7                                             Repealed by 1397.08.26
2.8                                             Repealed by 1397.08.26
3.1                                             Repealed by 1397.08.26
3.2                                             Repealed by 1397.08.26
4.1                                             Repealed by 1397.08.26
4.2.1                                           Repealed by 1397.08.26
4.2.2                                           Repealed by 1397.08.26
4.2.3                                           Repealed by 1397.08.26
4.2.4                                           Repealed by 1397.08.26
4.2.5                                           Repealed by 1397.08.26
4.2.6                                           Repealed by 1397.08.26
4.2.7                                           Repealed by 1397.08.26
4.3.1                                           13.12.220
4.3.2                                           13.12.230
4.4                                             13.12.240
4.5                                             13.12.250
4.6                                             13.12.260
4.7                                             13.12.270
5.1                                             13.12.280
5.2                                             13.12.290
5.3                                             13.12.300
5.4.1                                           13.12.310
5.4.2                                           13.12.320
5.4.4                                           13.12.340
5.5                                             13.12.350
6.1                                             13.12.360
6.2                                             13.12.370
7                                               Not codified
8                                               13.12.380
9                                               13.12.390
10                                              13.12.400
21-1                                            Repealed by 1397.03.08
21-2                                            Repealed by 1397.03.08
21-3                                            Repealed by 1397.03.08
21-4                                            Repealed by 1397.03.08
21-5                                            Repealed by 1397.03.08
21-6                                            Repealed by 1397.03.08
21-7                                            Repealed by 1397.03.08
21-8                                            Repealed by 1397.03.08
21-9                                            Repealed by 1397.03.08
21-10                                           Repealed by 1397.03.08
21-11                                           Repealed by 1397.03.08
21-12                                           Repealed by 1397.03.08
21-13                                           Repealed by 1397.03.08
21-14                                           Repealed by 1397.03.08
21-15                                           Repealed by 1397.03.08
21-16                                           Repealed by 1397.03.08
21-17                                           Repealed by 1397.03.08
21-18                                           Repealed by 1397.03.08
21-19                                           Repealed by 1397.03.08
Art. 21-20                                      Repealed by 1397.03.08
21-21                                           Repealed by 1397.03.3
21-22                                           Repealed by 1397.03.08
22-1-1                                          13.04.010
22-1-2                                          13.04.020
22-2-1                                          Repealed by 1397.02.07
22-2-2                                          Repealed by 1397.02.07
22-2-3                                          Repealed by 1397.02.07
22-2-4                                          Repealed by 1397.02.07
22-2-5                                          Repealed by 1397.02.07
22-2-6                                          Repealed by 1397.02.07
22-2-7                                          Repealed by 1397.02.07
22-3-1                                          13.04.030
22-3-2                                          13.04.040
22-3-3                                          13.04.050
22-3-4                                          13.04.060
22-3-5                                          13.04.070
22-3-6                                          13.04.080
22-4-1                                          13.04.090
22-4-2                                          13.04.100
22-5-1                                          13.04.110
22-6-1                                          13.04.380
22-6-2                                          13.04.390
22-6-3                                          13.04.400
22-6-4                                          13.04.410
22-6-5                                          Not codified
22-6-6                                          13.04.420
22-7-1                                          13.04.120
22-7-2                                          13.04.130
22-8-1                                          13.04.140
22-8-2                                          13.04.150
22-8-3                                          13.04.160
22-8-4                                          13.04.170
22-8-5                                          13.04.180
22-8-6                                          13.04.190
22-8-7                                          13.04.200
22-8-8                                          13.04.210
22-8-9                                          13.04.220
22-8-10                                         13.04.230
22-9-1                                          13.04.240
22-9-2                                          13.04.250
22-9-3                                          13.04.260
22-9-4                                          13.04.270
22-9-5                                          13.04.280
22-10-1                                         13.04.300
22-10-2                                         13.04.310
22-10-3                                         13.04.290
22-10-4                                         13.04.310
22-10-5                                         13.04.320
22-10-6                                         13.04.330
22-10-9                                         13.04.360
Art. 22-11                                      13.04.370
Art. 22-12                                      13.04.450
22-13-1                                         13.04.430
22-13-2                                         13.04.440
22-13-3                                         13.04.460
22-13-4                                         Not codified
                                                
 
ORDINANCE LIST AND DISPOSITION TABLE
Ordinance Number
Ordinance
Number
379.10       Adds § 13-2-3 to prior code, sewer fees (
             13.08)
379.10.1     Amends Ord. 379.10, sewer fees (
             13.08)
379.10.2     Repeals and replaces § 13-2-3(4) of prior code, sewer fees (
             13.08)
379.11       Adds § 13-2-4 to prior code, sewer fees (
             13.08)
             Repeals and replaces Art. 13-1 (D) and (E) and § 13-2-2 (B)(1), (2), (3), (C),
379.12       (D), (F) and (G) of prior code, sewer fees (
             13.08)
             Repeals and replaces § 13-2-2(B)(1), (2), (3), (C) and (G) of prior code, sewer
379.13       fees (
             13.08)
379.14       Repeals and replaces § 13-2-2(B) (1), (2), (3) and (C) of prior code, sewer fees (
             13.08)
379.15       Repeals and replaces portion of § 13-2-2(C) of prior code, sewer fees (
             13.08)
379.16       Repeals and replaces § 13-2-2(C) of prior code, sewer fees (
             13.08)
379.17       Adds § 13-2-4 to prior code, sewer fees (
             13.08)
526.5        Adds §§ 15-3-8—15-3-10 to prior code, impounded vehicles (
             10.12)
536.4        Repeals and replaces § 10-3-15(19) of prior code, business licenses (Repealed by
             1397-.05.3)
536.5        Repeals and replaces prior code § 10-3-15(f)(34), business taxes (Repealed by
             1397.05.3)
             Replaces word “operator” with “therapist” in prior code § 10-6, massage
536.6        establishments; repeals § 10-6-4(D)(6) (
             5.20)
583.2        Amends prior code § 9-7-2, sign code (Not codified)
637.1        Adds Ch. 2.30, parks and recreation advisory board (Repealed by Ord. 1397.02.20) (
             2.30)
             Amends § 2.30.040, quorum for parks and recreation advisory board (Repealed by
637.1        Ord. 1397.02.20) (
             2.30)
             Adds § 11-1-1(H) and repeals and replaces §§ 11-1-3 and 11-1-11(B) of prior code,
645.17       refuse collection permits (
             8.08)
645.18       Adds § 11-1-9 to prior code, refuse collection fees (
             8.08)
             Adds §§ 11-5-1—11-5-5 to prior code, junk vehicles; repeals §§ 11-3-3(H) and 11-3-
645.19       15 (
             8.12) (Repealed by 1397.08.07)
681.3        Repeals and replaces § 2-4-6(F), (G) and (H) of prior code, mayor and council
             (Repealed by 1397.02.08)
854.1        Adds § 18-4-3(A)(5) to prior code, alcoholic beverages in parks (
             12.04)
854.2        Repeals and replaces § 18-4-1(B) of prior code, park hours (
             12.04)
854.3        Adds §§ 18-4-3(A)(5) to prior code, alcoholic beverages in parks (
             12.04)
854.4        Amends prior code § 18-4-3, park use regulations (
             12.04)
911          Sets out provisions for outdoor light control (
             15.48)
936.7        Repeals and replaces § 9-2-2(A) of prior code, building code amendments (Repealed
             by 936.9)
936.8        Repeals and replaces Art. 9-1 of prior code, administrative code (Repealed by
             1397.15.9)
936.9        Repeals and replaces Art. 9-2 of prior code, building code (Repealed by 1397.15.8)
936.10       Repeals and replaces Art. 9-3 of prior code, mechanical code (Repealed by
             1397.15.12)
936.11       Repeals and replaces Art. 9-4 of prior code, plumbing code (Repealed by
             1397.15.16)
936.12       Repeals and replaces Art. 9-5 of prior code, electrical code (Repealed by
             1397.15.15)
936.13       Adds language to § 9-1-3 of prior code, board of appeals (Repealed by 1397.15.9)
             Adds prior code § 9-1-4(17); repeals and replaces prior code §§ 9-1-3 and 9-1-4
936.14       (10), administrative provisions; repeals prior code § 9-1-4(1) (Repealed by
             1379.15.9)
936.15       Repeals § 1205(b) of prior code, building code (Repealer)
936.17       Adds Plumbing Code amendment 5 (Repealed by 1397.15.16)
1009.1       Adds Art. 21-21 to prior code, purchasing code (Repealed by 1397.03.3)
1009.2       Adds Art. 21-22 to prior code, purchasing code (
             3.04)
1086.1       Repeals and replaces Art. 1-11 of prior code, nonsufficient funds (
             3.12)
             Repeals and replaces Art. 1-12 and repeals §§ 11-1-9(G) and 13-2-2(G) of prior
             code, fee collections (
1086.2       3.12,
             8.08,
             13.08)
1086.3       Repeals and replaces prior code Art. 1-11, collection charges and penalties (
             3.12)
1098         Adds § 5-1-12 to prior code, alarm regulations (Repealed by 1397.08.19)
1099         Adds Art. 11-4 to prior code, irrigation fees and assessments (
             13.16)
1156.1       Adopts amendments to 1988 city tax code (Repealed by 1474)
1178         Zoning (
             17.04 through 17.72)
1178.29      Repeals and replaces § 7.7.2 of Ord. No. 1178, zoning (
             17.68)
1178.30      Repeals and replaces § 7.4 of Ord. No. 1178, zoning (
             17.68)
1178.31      Adds § 5.8.3(V) to Ord. 1178, zoning (
             17.24)
             Amends §§ 4.3.2, 5.7, 5.8, 5.9 and 5.10; repeals and replaces §§ 5.10.1 and 5.11.1
             of prior code, zoning (
1178.32      17.16,
             17.24,
             17.28,
             17.32)
1178.35      Repeals and replaces § 7.25 of Ord. 1178, zoning (
             17.68)
1178.37      Adds subsection E to § 6.10.1 of Ord. 1178, zoning (
             17.56)
1178.39      Repeals and replaces §§ 6.10.2(G) and (H) of Ord. 1178, zoning (
             17.56)
1178.40      Repeals and replaces § 6.10.5(A) of Ord. 1178, zoning (
             17.56)
1178.44      Amends Table 17.16.030, zoning; repeals § 17.24.120(K) (
             17.16)
1178.45.1    Adds new § 2 to Ord. 1178.45, operative date (Not codified)
1178.60      Amends § 17.32.030
1178.68      Adds § 17.68.395; repeals and replaces §§ 17.68.350— 17.68.390, zoning (
             17.68)
             Repeals and replaces Ch. 14 of prior code, subdivisions (
1179         16.04 through
             16.24)
1179.1       Repeals and replaces attachments A-2, A-3, A-7, A-8, A-9 and A-10 of Ord. 1179,
             subdivisions (Note to Title 16)
1179.2       Repeals and replaces definition of “subdivisions” in Ord. 1179, subdivisions (
             16.08)
1179.3       (Not codified)
1179.4       (Not codified)
1179.5       Repeals and replaces § 3.3(F) of Ord. 1179, subdivisions (
             16.12)
1252         Adds § 12-1-29 to prior code, jaywalking (
             10.08)
1309         Repeals and replaces Art. 10-1 of prior code, peddlers (
             5.12)
1356         Repeals § 12-1-9 of prior code, hypnotists (Repealer)
1362         Repeals and replaces § 5.3 of prior code, Uniform Fire Code
            (Repealed by 1397.08.5)
             Adds language to Ch. 2 of prior code and § 15-1-7; amends §§ 5-2-4 and 15-4-5 of
             prior code; repeals and replaces Article 1-8 and § 12-1-20; repeals Article 2-
             2 and §§ 2-2, 2-1-1, 2-1-2, 2-1-3, 2-1-4, 2-1-5, 2-1-6, 2-1-7, 2-4-2, 2-4-3, 2-4-
             4, 2-4-7, 4-1-1, 4-1-2, 4-1-3, 4-1-4, 4-1-5, 4-1-6, 4-2- 1, 4-2-2, 4-2-3, 4-2-4,
             4-2-5, 4-2-6, 4-2-7, 4-2-8, 4-2-9, 4-2-10, 4-3-1(G), 2-3-1, 2-3-2, 2-3-4, 2-5- 1,
1368         2-5-2, 2-5-3, 2-5-4, 2-5-5, 2-5-6, 2-5-7, 2-5-8, 2-5-9, 10-6-12(A), 12-1-1, 12-1-
             3, 12-1-4, 12-1- 10, 12-1-11, 12-1-12, 12-1-14(B), 12-1-15, 12-1-17, 12-1-18, 12-
             1-19, and 12-1-20 of prior code (
             1.08,
             2.08,
             2.14,
             2.20)
1397         Adopts Casa Grande Municipal Code (
             1.01)
             Adds § 1.04.170, general provisions; repeals and replaces §§ 6.12.090, impoundment
             and 17.04.020(A), zoning (
1397.01.1    1.04,
             6.12,
             17.14)
1397.01.2    Amends § 1.04.170, miscellaneous fees (
             1.04)
             Repeals § 1.01.011, violation penalty; amends § 1.04.060, definitions; amends §
1397.01.03   2.24.080, criminal proceedings; adds §§ 2.24.081—2.24.085, civil violation
             offenses.
1397.01.04   Amends § 1.04.060, definitions
1397.01.05   Amends § 1.04.170, user fees; adds Table 1.04.170A (
             1.04)
             Amends § 1.04.060, definitions; and § 1.04.170, City Consolidated Fee Schedule;
1397.01.06   deletes Table 1.04.170.A (
             1.04)
1397.01.07   Amends 1.04.060, definitions; and 1.04.170, City Consolidated Fee Schedule (
             1.04)
1397.01.08   Amends 1.04.170, City Consolidated Fee Schedule (
             1.04)
1397.01.09   Amends § 1.04.060, definitions, and 1.04.170, City Consolidated Fee Schedule (
             1.04)
1397.02.01   Adds § 2.20.111, fire department fees (
             2.20)
1397.02.02   Adds §§ 2.24.100—2.24.140, city court fees (
             2.24) (§ 2.24.120 repealed by 1397.02.17)
1397.02.03   Amends § 2.40.010
1397.02.04   Adds § 2.24.150, court monitoring and probation fee (
             2.24)
1397.02.05   Amends §§ 2.20.111, 8.12.190, and 13.04.020
1397.02.06   Amends § 2.24.150
             Repeals and replaces Ch. 2.28, airport advisory board; amends §§ 13.04.010,
1397.02.07   13.04.080, 13.04.090, 13.04.300 (
             2.28,
             13.04)
1397.02.08   Repeals § 2.04.030; adds 2.04.035, council meetings— order of business (
             2.04)
1397.02.09   Amends §§ 2.24.100—2.24.150, city court fees (
             2.24) (§ 2.24.120 repealed by 1397.02.17)
             Amends §§ 2.20.111, 5.04.050, 5.12.100, 6.12.080, 6.12.090, 13.04.370, 13.16.020,
             15.32.210, City Consolidated Fee Schedule; deletes Table 13.04.370A (
             2.20 
             5.04,
1397.02.10   5.12,
             6.12,
             13.04,
             13.16,
             15.32)
1397.02.11   Adds § 2.24.200, home detention and electronic monitoring program (
             2.24)
1397.02.12   Adds § 2.24.170, court security fee (
             2.24)
1397.02.13   Adds § 2.24.160, court compliance recover fee (
             2.24)
             Adds Ch. 2.42, self-funded insurance plan and trust (Repealed by Ord. 1397.02.19)
1397.02.14   (
             2.42)
1397.02.15   Adds §§ 2.08.020, 02.08.030, deputy city clerk (
             2.08)
1397.02.16   Amends § 2.24.170, court security fee (
             2.24)
1397.02.17   Repeals § 2.24.120, court default cost recovery fee (
             2.24)
1397.0222    Repeals § 2.24.110; Amends §§ 2.24.100, 2.24.110, 2.24.130 through 2.24.170,
             2.24.200
1397.03.3    Adds § 3.04.200(D); repeals and replaces § 3.04.220, purchasing system (Repealed
             by 1397.03.08)
1397.03.4    Repeals and replaces § 3.12.030, collection charges and penalties (
             3.12)
1397.03.5    Amends §§ 3.04.010 and 3.04.020; adds § 3.04.185, purchasing system (Repealed by
             1397.03.08)
1397.03.06   Amends § 3.12.050
1397.03.08   Repeals and replaces Ch. 3.04, procurement code (
             3.04)
1397.03.09   Amends § 3.04.040, purchases in general; bids (
             3.04)
1397.04.01   Adds §§ 4.01.010 through 4.01.040, development fee procedures and requirements
             (Repealed by 1397.04.34)
1397.04.02   Adds § 4.02.010, fire and emergency medical facility and equipment development fee
             (Repealed by 1397.04.34)
1397.04.03   Adds § 4.02.020, parks facilities development fee (Repealed by 1397.04.28)
1397.04.04   Adds § 4.02.030, general government facilities development fee (Repealed by
             1397.04.34)
1397.04.05   Adds § 4.02.040, library facilities development fee (Repealed by 1397.04.27)
1397.04.06   Adds § 4.02.050, police facilities and equipment development fee (Repealed by
             1397.04.34)
1397.04.07   Adds § 4.02.060, sewer treatment and collection facilities development fee
             (Repealed by 1397.04.34)
1397.04.08   Adds § 4.02.070, transportation facilities development fee (Repealed by
             1397.04.34)
1397.04.09   Amends § 4.02.010, fire and emergency medical facility and equipment development
             fee (Repealed by 1397.04.34)
1397.04.10   Amends § 4.02.030, general government facilities development fee (Repealed by
             1397.04.34)
1397.04.11   Amends § 4.02.040, library facilities development fee (Repealed by 1397.04.34)
1397.04.12   Amends § 4.02.020, park facilities development fee (Repealed by 1397.04.34)
1397.04.13   Amends § 4.02.050, police facilities and equipment development fee (Repealed by
             1397.04.34)
1397.04.14   Amends § 4.02.060, sewer treatment and collection facilities development fee
             (Repealed by 1397.04.34)
1397.04.15   Amends § 4.02.070, transportation facilities development fee (Repealed by
             1397.04.34)
             Adds Ch. 4.05, payback fees (§§
1397.04.16   4.05.010,
             4.05.020)
1397.04.17   Adds § 4.05.030, Peart Road main sewer line payback
1397.04.18   Amends § 4.02.060, sewer treatment and collection facilities development fee
             (Repealed by 1397.04.34)
1397.04.19   Amends § 4.02.030, general government facilities development fee (Repealed by
             1397.04.34)
1397.04.20   Amends § 4.02.020, parks facilities development fee (Repealed by 1397.04.34)
1397.04.21   Amends § 4.02.070, transportation facilities development fee (Repealed by
             1397.04.34)
1397.04.22   Amends 4.01.010, definitions (Repealed by 1397.04.34)
1397.04.23   Amends 4.02.010, fire and emergency medical facility and equipment development fee
             (Repealed by 1397.04.34)
1397.04.24   Amends 4.02.050, police facilities and equipment develop-ment fee (Repealed by
             1397.04.34)
1397.04.25   Adds 4.02.080, community services development fee (Repealed by 1397.04.34)
1397.04.26   Amends 4.02.030, general government facilities develop-ment fee (Repealed by
             1397.04.34)
1397.04.27   Repeals § 4.02.040, library facilities development fee (Repealer)
1397.04.28   Repeals § 4.02.020, parks facilities development fee (Repealer)
1397.04.29   Amends 4.02.060, sewer treat-ment and collection facilities development fee
             (Repealed by 1397.04.34)
             Amends 4.01.010, definitions; § 4.01.030, general provisions; applicability; §§
1397.04.30   4.02.010, 4.02.030, 4.02.050—4.02.080, development fees; adds § 4.02.090,
             sanitation and equip-ment development fee (Repealed by 1397.04.34)
1397.04.30.1 Amends § 4.02.070, transportation facilities development fee (Repealed by
             1397.04.34)
1397.04.32   Amends § 4.02.070, transporta-tion facilities development fee (Repealed by
             1397.04.34)
1397.04.33   Amends §§ 4.02.010, 4.02.030, 4.02.050—4.02.080, development fees (Repealed by
             1397.04.34)
1397.04.34   Repeals and replaces Ch. 4.01, development impact fees (4.01), repeals Ch. 4.02,
             development fees (repealer)
1397.04.35   Amends § 4.01.110, collection of development impact fees (
             4.01)
1397.05.1    Repeals Ch. 5.16, pool halls and billiard halls (Repealer)
1397.05.02   Adds Ch. 5.24, sexually oriented businesses (
             5.24)
1397.05.03   Repeals and replaces Ch. 5.04, business transaction tax (
             5.04)
1397.05.4    Repeals and replaces § 5.04.010, business transaction tax (
             5.04)
1397.05.05   Amends § 5.12.030; adds Ch. 5.16, mobile food vendors (5.12, 5.16)
1397.1       Adopts August 1991 errata, Ch. 8.12, Art. II, nuisances, litter, abandoned or junk
             vehicles (Not codified)
             Adds Ch. 6.05; repeals and replaces §§ 6.08.070 and 6.12.080, animals (
1397.06.2    6.05,
             6.08,
             6.12)
             Repeals and replaces language in §§ 6.04.010; 6.04.020(A), (B),(D), (E), (G) and
             adds (H); §§ 6.04.050(B), 6.04.070(B), 6.04.080, 6.08.090(A), 6.12.080(B) and
1397.06.3    6.12.090(B), animals (
             6.04,
             6.08,
             6.12)
1397.06.4    Adds Chapter 6.06, backyard fowl
1397.07.01   Adds §§ 7.01.001 through 7.01.007, economic development incentives
1397.7.2     Adds §§ 7.02.01, 7.02.02, Arizona Public Service franchise fee.
             Repeals and replaces § 8.08.100(c)(2), garbage and refuse collection and disposal
1397.08.1    (
             8.08)
             Amends § 8.08.100; repeals and replaces § 8.08.030, garbage and refuse collection;
1397.08.2    repeals § 8.08.040, 8.08.050, 8.08.060 and 8.08.100(C)(2) (
             8.08)
             Adds subdivision (c)(3) to § 8.08.100; repeals and replaces § 8.08.100(c)(2),
1397.08.3    garbage and refuse collection and disposal (
             8.08)
1397.08.5    Repeals and replaces §§ 8.16.010 and 8.16.020, fire code (Repealed by 1397.08.20)
1397.08.06   Amends § 8.08.100, garbage and refuse collection fees (
             8.08)
1397.08.07   Repeals and replaces Ch. 8.12, nuisances, litter, abandoned or junk vehicles (
             8.12)
1397.08.08   Amends § 8.08.100, garbage and refuse collection fees. (
             8.08)
             Amends § 8.08.100, garbage and refuse collection fees, and § 8.08.160, billing
1397.08.09   cycles (
             8.08)
1397.08.10   Amending § 8.12.010, definitions (
             8.08)
1397.08.11   Amends § 8.08.100, garbage and refuse collection fees (
             8.08)
1397.08.12   Amends § 8.08.100, garbage and refuse collection fees (
             8.08)
             Amends §§ 8.08.010, 8.08.070, 8.08.080, 8.08.100, 8.08.110, and 8.08.120, and adds
1397.08.13   §§ 8.08.200 through 8.08.220, garbage and refuse collection and disposal (
             8.08)
1397.08.14   Amends § 8.08.100, garbage and refuse collection fees (
             8.08)
             Amends 8.12.010, definitions, and adds 8.12.135 (deleted by 1397.08.24), graffiti
1397.08.15   removal (
             8.12)
1397.08.16   Amends Ch. 8.08, garbage and refuse collection and disposal (
             8.12)
1397.08.17   Adds § 8.12.205, smoking in and around hospital prohibited (
             8.12)
1397.08.18   Adds Ch. 8.28, sale of ephedrine and pseudoephedrine products (
             8.28)
1397.08.19   Repeals and replaces Ch. 8.24, alarm systems (
             8.24)
             Repeals and replaces §§ 8.16.010 and 8.16.020, fire code, §§ 15.06.010 and
             15.06.020, residential code, §§ 15.08.010 and 15.08.020, building code, §§
             15.12.010 and 15.12.020, mechanical code, §§ 15.16.010 and 15.16.020, plumbing
             code §§ 15.20.010 and 15.20.020, electrical code; repeals §§ 15.04.010 and
             15.04.020, administrative provisions; adds §§ 15.04.010 and 15.04.020, electrical
             code administrative provisions, §§ 15.10.010 and 15.10.020, fuel gas code (
1397.08.20   8.16,
             15.04,
             15.06,
             15.08,
             15.10,
             15.12,
             15.16,
             15.20)
1397.08.21   Amends § 8.16.010, fire code (
             8.16)
1397.08.22   Amends § 8.08.100, garbage and refuse collection and disposal (
             8.08)
1397.08.23   Amends §§ 8.08.010 and 8.08.030, garbage and refuse collection and disposal (
             8.08)
             Deletes § 8.12.135; adds §§ 8.32.010, 8.32.020, 8.32.030, 9.16.060, graffiti (
1397.08.24   8.32,
             9.16)
             Repeals and replaces §§ 8.16.010, fire code adopted, 15.04.010, building and
             technical administrative code, 15.06.010, residential code for one- and two-family
             dwellings, 15.08.010, building code, 15.10.010, fuel gas code, 15.12.010,
             mechanical code, 15.16.010, plumbing code, 15.20.010, electrical code; adds Ch.
             15.14, energy conservation code, Ch. 15.28, property maintenance code, and Ch.
             15.30, existing building code (
             8.16,
             15.04,
1397.08.25   15.06,
             15.08,
             15.10,
             15.12,
             15.14,
             15.16,
             15.20,
             15.28,
             15.30)
             Amends §§ 13.08.200, 13.08.240, 13.12.020,; repeals and replaces §§ 13.12.030
             through 13.12.060; repeals §§ 13.08.040, 13.08.120, 13.08.160, 13.08.500,
1397.08.26   13.12.010, 13.12.070 through 13.12.210, pretreatment standards for sewer service
             system (
             13.08,
             13.12)
             Amends § 8.12.360; deletes §§ 8.12.370 through 8.12.420, appeals of abatement
1397.08.27   actions (
             8.12)
             Amends §§ 8.16.010, fire code, 15.04.10, building and technical administrative
             code, 15.06.010, residential code for one- and two-family dwellings, 15.08.010,
             building code, 15.10.010, fuel gas code, 15.12.010, mechanical code, 15.14.010,
             energy conservation code, 15.16.010, plumbing code, 15.20.010, electrical code,
             15.28.010, property maintenance code, 15.30.010, existing building code; adds §§
             15.18.010, 15.18.020, swimming pool and spa code, (
             8.16,
             15.04,
1397.08.28   15.06,
             15.08,
             15.10,
             15.12,
             15.14, 
             15.16,
             15.18,
             15.20,
             15.28,
             15.30)
1397.08.29   Adds Ch. 8.30, responsible adult use of marijuana prohibitions (
             8.30)
1397.09.1    Repeals §§ 9.04.020, 9.08.010, 9.12.010, 9.12.030, 9.12.040, 9.12.080, 9.16.060,
             9.20.040 and Ch. 9.24, public peace, morals and welfare (Repealer)
1397.09.2    Adds § 9.20.090, weapons and explosives (
             9.20)
1397.09.03   Repeals and replaces Ch. 9.16 relating to a curfew for minors
1397.09.04   Adds Ch. 9.24, prohibitions against unreasonable or excessive noise (
             9.24)
             Adds § 9.08.10, unruly gatherings, and § 9.16.05, underage drinking (
1397.09.05   9.08,
             9.16)
1397.09.06   Adds §§ 9.22.010 through 9.22.060, fireworks (
             9.22)
1397.09.07   Amends §§ 9.22.010 through 9322.040; adds § 9.22.070, fireworks (9.22)
             Amends § 10.04.070; adds §§ 10.04.075, 10.04.080, and 10.12.025; deletes 10.12.030
1397.10.1    (
             10.04,
             10.12)
1397.10.02   Amends § 10.08.160 truck and trailer parking (
             10.08)
1397.10.3    Amends 10.04.010, police chief—enforcement authority (
             10.04)
1397.10.4    Adds § 10.12.100, stopping in a roadway or median (
             10.12)
             Amends § 10.08.160, truck and trailer parking; adds § 10.08.300, code enforcement
1397.10.05   officers—enforcement authority (
             10.08)
1397.13.1    Adds fee for use of RV dump station (
             13.12)
1397.13.2    Adds Mercado Outlet Mall trunk sewer fee to Ch. 13.08, sewer service system (
             13.08)
1397.13.3    Adds § 13.08.352, sewer service system (
             13.08)
1397.13.4    Adopts by reference Res. 1992, wastewater and pretreatment regulations; repeals
             Ord. 875, Ch. 13.12 and Art. V of Ch. 13.08 (Repealed by 1397.13.7)
             Amends Table 13.08.320, publicservices; repeals § 13.12.130(A)(5) of § 13.12.130,
1397.13.5    water discharge restrictions and treatment requirements (Table 13.08.320 repealed
             and replaced by 1397.13.6) (
             13.12)
1397.13.6    Repeals and replaces Table 13.08.320, sewer service system (deleted by 1397.13.20)
             Adopts Res. 1992.1; repeals Art. V of Ch. 13.08 and Ch. 13.12, wastewater
1397.13.7    pretreatment standards (
             13.12)
1397.13.8    Amends Table 13.08.320, sewer rental fees (deleted by 1397.13.20)
1397.13.9    Amends Table 13.08.320, sewer fees (deleted by 1397.13.20)
1397.13.10   Amends Table 13.08.320, sewer fees (deleted by 1397.13.20)
1397.13.11   Adopts Res. 2565; repeals and replaces § 13.12.020; reiterates §§ 13.12.180 -
             13.12.210
1397.13.12   Adds § 13.08.353, Coyote ranch truck sewer fee (
             13.08)
1397.13.13   Amending §§ 13.08.310 nad 13.08.320 sewer service application and charges, rates
             and payments
             Amends § 1.04.170, miscellaneous user fees, and § 13.04.370, rates and charges;
             adds Table 13.04.370A, airport user rates (Table 13.04.370A deleted by 1397.02.10)
1397.13.15   (
             1.04,
             13.04)
1397.13.16   Amends Table 13.08.320, sewer fees (deleted by 1397.13.20)
             Amends § 13.04.370, rates and charges, and Table 13.04.370A, airport user rates
1397.13.17   (Table 13.04.370A deleted by 1397.02.10) (
             13.04)
1397.13.18   Amends § 13.12.040, duty to comply, and adds Table 13.12.040, discharge limits (
             13.12)
             Amends § 13.08.310, application for service required, § 13.08.320, charges, rates
1397.13.19   and payments, and Table 13.08.320; deletes § 13.08.190, residential capacity
             charge (Table 13.08.320 deleted by 1397.13.20) (
             13.08)
             Amends 13.08.260, 13.08.270, 13.08.310, 13.08.320, 13.08.360 and 13.08.420;
1397.13.20   deletes Table 13.08.320; adds 13.08.510, sewer service system (
             13.08)
             Amends §§ 13.04.010, 13.04.090, 13.04.100, 13.04.110, 13.04.220, 13.04.270,
1397.13.21   13.04.290, 13.04.330, 13.04.370, 13.04.380, 13.04.420; reserves §§ 13.04.340,
             13.04.350, airport regulations
1397.15.1    Amends § 15.08.100, building code; repeals §§ 15.08.110 and 15.08.120 (Repealed by
             1397.15.8)
1397.15.2    Adds § 15.08.171, building code (Repealed by 1397.15.8)
1397.15.3    Adds § 15.08.125, building code adopted (Repealed by 1379.15.8)
             Repeals and replaces §§ 15.32.030(B), 15.32.090, 15.32.110 and 15.32.120(C) and
1397.15.4    (D), public improvement requirements for land developers (
             15.32)
1397.15.5    Repeals and replaces Art. XII of Ch. 15.40, drainage (
             15.40)
1397.15.6    Adds § 15.04.182, administrative code (Repealed by 1397.15.9)
1397.15.7    Repeals § 15.16.090, plumbing code (Repealer)
1397.15.8    Repeals and replaces Ch. 15.08, uniform building code (Repealed by 1397.08.20)
1397.15.9    Repeals and replaces Ch. 15.04, uniform administrative code (Repealed by
             1397.08.20)
1397.15.10   Adds provisions of Arizonans with Disabilities Act provisions to Ch. 15.08
             (Repealed by 1397.08.20)
             Amends § 15.32.180 and § 17.40.020(P), utilities (
1397.15.11   15.32,
             17.40)
1397.15.12   Repeals and replaces Ch. 15.12, uniform mechanical code (Repealed by 1397.08.20)
             Repeals and replaces Ch. 15.28, uniform code for abatement of dangerous buildings
1397.15.13   (
             15.28)
1397.15.14   Adds Ch. 15.30, uniform code for building conservation (
             15.30)
1397.15.15   Repeals and replaces Ch. 15.20, national electrical code (Repealed by 1397.08.20)
1397.15.16   Repeals and replaces Ch. 15.16, plumbing code (Repealed by 1397.08.20)
             Adds § 15.32.230 and § 16.16.400, both of which adopt multimodal transportation
1397.15.18   study by reference (
             15.32,
             16.16) (Repealed by 1397.15.25)
             Amends § 15.40.1240, retention and collection facility requirements for
1397.15.19   subdivisions (
             15.40)
             Amends § 15.32.210, notification and approval of work to be done on right-of-way
1397.15.20   required (
             15.32)
             Amends §§ 15.40.040 - 15.40.060, 15.40.120, 15.40.200, 15.40.210, 15.40.230,
             15.40.250, 15.40.260, 15.40.300, 15.40.390, 15.40.410, 15.40.460, 15.40.490,
             15.40.500, 15.40.520, 15.40.580, 15.40.600 - 15.40.660, 15.40.700, 15.40.750,
1397.15.21   15.40.780, 15.40.850, 15.40.860, 15.40.920, 15.40.950, 15.40.960, 15.40.990
             15.40.1000; adds §§ 15.40.020, 15.40.070, 15.40.090, 15.40.125, 15.40.128,
             15.40.325, 15.40.335, 15.40.385, 15.40.425, 15.40.445, 15.40.515, 15.40.540,
             15.40.545, 15.40.690, 15.40.800, flood hazard prevention (
             15.40)
             Amends §§ 15.40.010, 15.40.030, 15.40.040 - 15.40.070, 15.40.090, 15.40.120,
             15.40.125, 15.40.128, 15.40.130, 15.40.140, 15.40.160 - 15.40.250, 15.40.280 -
             15.40.310, 15.40.325 - 15.40.340, 15.40.360 - 15.40.390, 15.40.410, 15.40.425,
             15.40.440, 15.40.445, 15.40.450 - 15.40.470, 15.40.480, 15.40.490 - 15.40.520,
             15.40.530 - 15.40.545, 15.40.560, 15.40.590 - 15.40.710, 15.40.730 - 15.40.930,
1397.15.22   15.40.950 -15.40.1000; adds §§ 15.40.025, 15.40.035, 15.40.110, 15.40.115,
             15.40.121 - 15.40.124, 15.40.126, 15.40.260, 15.40.320, 15.40.400, 15.40.448,
             15.40.485, 15.40.525, 15.40.550, 15.40.570, 15.40.580, 15.40.720, flood hazard
             prevention, 15.42.010 - 15.42.310. stormwater management and drainage (
             15.40,
             15.42)
1397.15.23   Amends § 15.08.010, International Building Code (
             15.08)
             Adds §§ 17.12.1305 and 17.16.010(A)(15); amends Tables 17.16.030(B), 17.20.050,
             17.20.060, 17.20.140, 17.20.150, 17.20.230, 17.20.240, 17.20.320, 17.20.340,
             17.20.430, 17.20.450, 17.20.550, 17.20.560, 17.24.150, 17.24.240, 17.28.060,
             17.32.060, 17.36.060, 17.48.050 and 17.48.060; repeals and replaces §§ 16.16.310
             (B), 16.24.010, 17.12.950, 17.24.020, 17.24.040(B), 17.24.120(A)(2) and (T),
             17.28.030(F), 17.36.030(Q), 17.52.030, 17.52.040 and 17.52.500; repeals §§
             17.24.120(I) and 17.28.030(F), subdivisions and zoning (
             16.16,
1397.16.2    16.24,
             17.12,
             17.16,
             17.20,
             17.24,
             17.28,
             17.32,
             17.36,
             17.52)
1397.16.03   Amends § 16.20.010, financial guarantee required (
             16.20)
1397.17.1    Adopts Res No. 1976, zoning (
             17.52)
1397.17.2    Repeals and replaces § 17.56.170, zoning (
             17.56)
1397.17.3    Repeals and replaces § 17.56.190, zoning (
             17.56)
1397.17.4    Adds subsections (V) to § 17.24.120 and (Q) to 17.24.210, zoning (
             17.24)
1397.17.5    Repeals and replaces § 17.56.010(E), zoning (
             17.56)
1397.17.8    Adds to Table 17.16.030(B), zoning (
             17.16)
             Repeals and replaces §§ 17.24.160 and 17.28.070 and Tables 17.24.150, and
1397.17.9    17.28.060, zoning (
             17.24,
             17.28)
1397.17.10   Repeals and replaces § 17.60.010, zoning (
             17.60)
             Add new definitions and adds §§ 17.24.030(M), 17.24.120(W), 17.24.210(R),
             17.28.030(H), 17.32.030(B) and 17.36.030(T); amends Table 17.16.030, zoning (
             17.16,
1397.17.11   17.24,
             17.28,
             17.32,
             17.36)
1397.17.12   Amends § 17.16.030(B), zoning (
             17.16)
1397.17.13   Repeals and replaces § 17.52.110(B), zoning (
             17.52)
             Adds § 17.12.1645; amends §§ 17.16.030, 17.28.030, 17.32.030, 17.36.030, 17.52.250
             and 17.68.120, zoning (
             17.12,
             17.16,
1397.17.14   17.28,
             17.32,
             17.36,
             17.52,
             17.68)
             Adds Ch. 17.30 and amends § 17.16.010, zoning (
1397.17.15   17.16,
             17.30)
             Amends §§ 17.12.145, 17.16.030 and 17.68.120; repeals § 17.12.1490, zoning (
1397.17.16   17.12,
             17.16,
             17.68)
             Amends §§ 17.16.010, 17.24.120, 17.28.030, 17.32.030, 17.40.020; repeals and
             replaces Ch. 17.48, zoning (
             17.16,
1397.17.17   17.24,
             17.28,
             17.32,
             17.40,
             17.48)
1397.17.18   Adds § 17.24.040(E) and amends § 17.30.040(A)
1397.17.19   Adds § 17.12.125
1397.17.20   Amends Table 17.16.030B
1397.17.21   Amends Table 17.16.030A
1397.17.22   Adds § 17.40.015; amends § 17.040.020 F, I, L, R
1397.17.22.1 Amends § 17.40.015
1397.174.23  Amends § 17.12.1510
1397.17.24   Amends § 17.56.101, off street parking
1397.17.25   Amends Table 17.20.050
1397.17.27   Amends Table 17.56.020 (
             17.16)
1397.17.28   Amends Table 17.16.030A (
             17.16)
             Adds §§ 17.12.771 and 17.12.772; amends Table 17.16.030(B), § 17.40.020, and §
             17.68.330 (
1397.17.29   17.12,
             17.16,
             17.40,
             17.68)
1397.17.30   Adds §§ 17.68.1000 through 17.68.1011 (
             17.68)
1397.17.31   Amends Table 17.20.450 (
             17.20)
             Repeals and replaces historic preservation ordinance of the City of Casa Grande,
1397.17.32   Arizona, zoning (
             17.62)
             Amends Table 4 of Chapter 16, § 17.16.010 and Table 17.16.030A.; adds §§ 17.20.630
1397.17.33   through 17.20.710, Tables 17.20.670 and 17.20.680, design standards, zoning (16,
             17.16,
             17.20)
             Amends Table 4 of Chapter 16, § 17.16.010 and Table 17.16.030A.; adds §§ 17.20.720
1397.17.34   through 17.20.800, Tables 17.20.760 and 17.20.770, design standards, zoning (16,
             17.16,
             17.20)
             Adds § 17.12.415 and amends Table 17.16.30B, deferred presentment company (
1397.17.35   17.12,
             17.16)
             Adds §§ 17.12.092, 17.12.094, 17.12.365; deletes § 17.12.110; amends §§ 17.12.120,
             17.12.400, 17.12.410, 17.12.450, 17.12.1230, 17.24.030, 17.24.120, 17.24.210,
             17.28.030, 17.32.030, 17.52.080, 17.56.220, 17.60.050; Tables 17.16.030A,
             17.16.030B, 17.20.060, 17.20.150, 17.20.240, 17.20.340, 17.20.450, 17.20.560,
             17.20.680, 17.20.770; permissible and conditional uses, zoning (
             17.12,
             17.16,
1397.17.36   17.20,
             17.24,
             17.28,
             17.32,
             17.52,
             17.52,
             17.56,
             17.60)
             Adds §§ 17.12.941 through 17.12.947, 17.52.570 through 17.52.610; amends Tables
             17.16.030(A) and 17.16.030(B); §§ 17.30.020 and 17.40.020; marijuana uses (
             17.12,
1397.17.37   17.16,
             17.30,
             17.40,
             17.52)
1397.17.37.1 Amends § 17.52.580, marijuana dispensary hours of operation (
             17.52)
             Adds § 17.68.215 and amends § 17.68.230; temporary agricultural activity in
1397.17.38   certain zones (
             17.68)
             Amends § 17.52.100 and deletes § 17.52.240, detached accessory structures, uses
1397.17.39   and equipment (
             17.52)
             Amends § 17.56.130, parking, equipment storage, and display lot surfacing
1397.17.40   requirements (
             17.56)
             Renumbers § 17.64.020 as § 17.64.030; adds new § 17.64.020, nonconforming parking
1397.17.41   lots (
             17.64)
1397.17.42   Amends Table 17.56.220, off-street parking spaces required (
             17.56)
             Amends §§ 17.08.110, 17.54.050, 17.68.380, board of adjustment (
1397.17.43   17.08,
             17.54,
             17.68)
1397.17.44   Amends § 17.56.010.E.3., identification of accessible parking spaces (
             17.56)
             Adds §§ 17.12.122 and 17.12.123; amends Table 17.16.30B, zoning (
1397.17.45   17.12,
             17.16)
1397.17.46   Amends Table 17.56.220.B, off street parking (
             17.56)
             Amends § 17.08.010; adds §§ 17.08.140, 17.08.150, 17.08.160, 17.08.170; amends and
1397.17.47   restates Ch. 17.62, historic preservation (
             17.08,
             17.62)
             Amends §§ 17.54.010 through 17.54.080, 17.68.350, 17.68.360 through 17.68.395;
1397.17.48   adds § 17.68.355, variances, appeals to the board of adjustment (
             17.54,
             17.68)
1397.17.49   Amends Table 17.20.340, minimum setbacks in R-2 Zone (
             17.20)
             Amends Table 17.16.30B, Table 17.32.060, § 17.36.030, Table 17.36.060, maximum
             heights of wireless facilities, structures and buildings in industrial zones (
1397.17.50   17.16,
             17.32,
             17.36)
1397.17.51   Deletes § 17.20.580, required street and right-of-way widths (
             17.20)
1397.17.52   Amends § 17.52.250, height requirements (
             17.52)
             Amends §§ 17.12.941 through 17.12.943, § 17.12.946, Table 17.16.030(B), §
             17.30.020(E), §§ 17.52.570 through 17.52.610; deletes § 17.12.944, § 17.52.620;
1397.17.53   renumbers § 17.12.945 as § 17.12.944; adds § 17.12.945, marijuana uses (
             17.12,
             17.30,
             17.52)
1397.17.54   Amends § 17.40.015, planned area developments (
             17.40)
             Amends Tables 17.20.060, 17.20.150, 17.20.240, 17.20.340, 17.20.450, 17.20.560,
1397.17.55   17.20.680, and 17.20.770, regarding minimum setbacks in residential zones (
             17.20)
             Adopts Res. 5199, adding §§ 18.04.010 through 18.04.500, §§ 18.08.010 through
             18.08.230, §§ 18.12.010 through 18.12.080, §§ 18.16.010 through 18.016.210,
             stormwater pollution prevention (
1397.18      18.04,
             18.08,
             18.12,
             18.16)
1398         Adopts Res. 1940, historic preservation (Repealed by 1397.17.32)
1398.1       Amends the historic preservation ordinance of the city of Casa Grande, Arizona,
             zoning (Repealed by 1397.17.32)
1406         Authorizes rate adjustment for Evergreen irrigation district (
             13.16)
1474         Adopts city tax code by reference; repeals Ch. 3.08 (
             3.08)
             Amends Charter, Article II, §§ 2 - 4, 6 - 9, 11 - 14, 18, 20; Article III, §§ 1 -
2482         6; Article IV, §§ 2, 4, 6; Article V, § 2; Article VI, §§ 4, 6; Article VII, §§ 5,
             6, 13; Article VIII, §§ 2 - 4, 7; Article IX, §§ 3, 5; Article XI, §§ 2, 5, 7;
             Article XIV, §§ 2, 3
1397.08.30   Amends § 8.08.030 (
             8.08)
1397.02.18   Amends §§ 2.28.030, 2.28.040 (
             2.28)
1397.02.19   Repeals Ch. 2.42 (2.42)
1397.02.20   Repeals and replaces §§ 2.30.010 through 2.30.040 (
             2.30)
1397.02.21   Amends §§ 2.36.010 through 2.36.030, 2.36.050, 2.36.070, 2.36.090 (
             2.36)
1397.10.06   Repeals Ch. 10.16 (
             10.16)
1397.15.24   Amends § 15.04.010
             Amends §§ 15.32.020, 15.32.090, 15.32.110, 15.32.120 (
1397.15.25   15.32), 16.16.220, Tables 1, 2 and 4 of Ch. 16.16 (
             16.16); repeals §§ 15.32.230 (15.32) and 16.16.400 (16.16)
1397.17.56   Amends § 17.08.080 (
             17.08)
             Amends § 17.08.170; adds 17.62.145 (
1397.17.57   17.08,
             17.62)
1397.17.58   Amends § 17.40.015 (
             17.40)
1397.17.59   Amends Ch. 17.56 (
             17.56)
             Amends §§ 17.24.120, 17.24.170, 17.28.030, 17.28.080, 17.32.080, 17.36.080,
             17.56.030, Tables 17.16.030(B), 17.24.150, 17.28.060, 17.32.060, 17.36.060; adds
             §§ 17.12.1245; repeals § 17.12.1640 (
             17.12,
1397.17.60   17.16,
             17.24,
             17.28,
             17.32,
             17.36,
             17.56)
             Amends §§ 15.32.090, 15.32.120, Tables 1 and 2 of Ch. 16.16 (
3416         15.32,
             16.16)
1397.05.06   Adopts Chapter 5.28 Short-Term Rentals (
             5.28)
             Amends zoning §§ 17.12.020, 17.16.030A; adds §§17.12.495, 17.12.685, and 17.52.105
             (
1397.17.61   17.12,
             17.16,
             17.52)
             Amends zoning §§ 17.12.920, 17.12.1020, Tables A and B of 17.16.030A, 17.52.060,
             and 17.52.070; adds §§ 17.12.515, 17,12.516, 17.12.1105 and 17.52.075 (
1397.17.62   17.12,
             17.16,
             17.52)
1397.17.63   Amends § 17.64.030; adds § 17.12.835 (17.12, 17.64)
             Amends Chapter 17, Art. IX, §§ 17.68.480 - 17.68.550; adds §§ 17.12.325,
1397.17.64   17.12.435, and 17.12.455 (
             17.12,
             17.68)
             Amends Tables 17.20.060, 17.20.150, 17.20.240, 17.20.340, 17.20.680, and 17.20.770
1397.17.65   (
             17.20)
1397.19      Adopts Ch. 12.08 Camping and Use of Public Property (
             12.08)
1397.20      Amends 12.04.040; adds 12.04.125
3472         Amends 9.24.040
             
 
 
