CLIFTON, ARIZONA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2021 S-5 Supplement current through
Ordinance 01-2021, passed 3-4-2021
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street  *  Suite 310  *  Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588  www.amlegal.com
TOWN OFFICIALS OF
CLIFTON, ARIZONA
CITY COUNCIL
Mayor      Luis M. Montoya
Vice-Mayor Barbara Ahmann
Member     John Freida
Member     Laura Dorrell
Member     Raymond Lorenzo
Member     B. Waddell Reyes
Member     Ray West
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to chapters and sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; calculation of time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Conflicting provisions
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Acts by agents
   
10.19   Prohibited acts include causing or permitting
 
   
10.99   General penalty; civil sanctions
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall
constitute and be designated “The Code of the Town of Clifton, Arizona”, and
may be so cited. The code may also be cited as “The Clifton Town Code” or “this
code”.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The rules and the definitions set forth in this chapter shall be
observed in the construction of this code and the ordinances of the town unless
the construction would be inconsistent with either the manifest intent of the
Council or the context of this code or the ordinances of the town.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required,
the same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. All words and phrases shall be construed and understood
according to the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words
and phrases and others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning
in the law shall be construed and understood according to the peculiar and
appropriate meaning.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY or TOWN.  The Town of Clifton, Arizona.
      CODE,THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.  This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNCIL.  The Council of the Town of Clifton, Arizona.
      COUNTY.  Greenlee County, Arizona.
      DAY.  The period of time between any midnight and the midnight following.
      DAYTIME.  The period of time between sunrise and sunset.
      DEPARTMENT, BOARD, COMMISSION, OFFICE, OFFICER or EMPLOYEE.  Whenever any
department, board, commission, office, officer or employee is referred to, it
shall mean a department, board, commission, office, officer or employee of the
town unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
      EMERGENCY VEHICLE.  Vehicles of the Fire, Police and Public Service
Departments and legally authorized ambulances and emergency vehicles of the
state, county or any political subdivisions thereof, and vehicles of public
service corporations.
      EMERGENCY WORK.  Any work performed to prevent or alleviate physical
trauma or property damage threatened or caused by an emergency, which has or
may result in a disruption of service, and which is necessary to protect the
health, safety and welfare of persons or property.
      IN THE TOWN or WITHIN THE TOWN.  All territory over which the town now
has, or shall hereafter acquire, jurisdiction for the exercise of its police
powers or other regulatory powers.
      JOINT AUTHORITY.  All words purporting to give a JOINT AUTHORITY to three
or more town officers or other persons shall be construed as giving the
authority to a majority of the officers or other persons unless it shall be
otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority.
      LAW.  Applicable federal law, the Constitution and statutes of the state,
the ordinances of the town and, when appropriate, any and all rules and
regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
      MAJORITY.  When used in reference to the Town Council, means 51% of those
members in attendance; provided that, a quorum of the Council is also present.
      MAY.  The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH.  A calendar month.
      MOTOR VEHICLE.  Every self-propelled device in, upon or by which any
person or property is, or may be, transported upon a public highway, excepting
aircraft and devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
      MUST.  The act referred to is mandatory.
      NIGHTTIME.  The period of time between sunset and sunrise.
      OATH.  Includes affirmation or declaration.
      OWNER.  Applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, tenant by the entirety, of the whole or
a part of the building or land.
      PERSON.  Shall extend and be applied to firms, corporations or voluntary
associations, as well as to individuals, unless plainly inapplicable.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY.  Includes every species of property, except real
property as defined in this section.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING.  The words PRECEDING and FOLLOWING mean next
before and next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY.  Real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY.  Lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL.  The action referred to is mandatory.
      SHALL HAVE BEEN.  Includes past and future cases.
      SIDEWALK.  The portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION.  Includes a mark when the signer cannot write,
the signer’s or subscriber’s name being written near the mark by a witness who
writes his or her own name near the signer’s or subscriber’s name; but a
SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION by mark can be acknowledged or can serve as a
signature or subscription to a sworn statement only when two witnesses so sign
their own names thereto.
      STATE.  The State of Arizona.
      STREET.  Includes all streets, highways, avenues, lanes, alleys, courts,
places, squares, curbs or other public ways in the town which have been or may
hereafter be dedicated and open to public use or other public property so
designated in any law of the state.
      SUBCHAPTER.  A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a
heading in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the
chapter, setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the
heading. Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT.  When applied to a building or land shall include any
person holding a written or an oral lease or who occupies the whole or part of
the building or land, either alone or with others.
      VIOLATION OF THIS CODE.
         (a)   Shall mean any of the following:
            1.   Doing an act that is prohibited or declared unlawful, an
offense or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by
ordinance; or
            2.   Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by
ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance;
            3.   Failure to perform an act if the failure is declared a
misdemeanor or an offense or unlawful by ordinance or by rule or regulation
authorized by ordinance.
         (b)   VIOLATION OF THIS CODE does not include the failure of a town
officer or town employee to perform an official duty unless it is provided
herein that failure to perform the duty is punishable as provided in this
section.
      WRITTEN.  Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR.  A calendar year, except where otherwise provided.
(Ord. 01-2009, passed 5-14-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions and construction of statutes generally, see A.R.S. §§ 1-211
through 1-215
§ 10.06  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the town shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   And/or. “Or” may be read “and”, and “and” may be read “or”, if the
context requires it.
   (B)   Acts by agents. When this code or an ordinance requires an act to be
done which may by law as well be done by an agent as by the principal, the
requirement shall be construed to include all acts when done by an authorized
agent.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses.
      (1)   Words of the masculine gender include the feminine; words in the
singular number include the plural and words in the plural number include the
singular.
      (2)   The present tense includes the past and future tenses and the
future includes the present.
   (D)   General terms. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Council that the titles,
chapters, subchapters, sections, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code
shall be severable and, if any provision of this code is held unconstitutional
for any reason by a court of competent jurisdiction, the unconstitutionality
shall not affect any of the remaining provisions of the code.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO CHAPTERS AND SECTIONS.
   (A)   All references to chapters or sections are to the chapters and
sections of this code unless otherwise specified.
   (B)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within the town for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.12  REASONABLE TIME; CALCULATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done as provided in this code or
in any order issued pursuant to any ordinance, when expressed in days, shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last; except that, if the
last day is a Saturday, Sunday or holiday, it shall be excluded; and when the
time is expressed in hours, the whole of Saturday, Sunday or a holiday, from
midnight to midnight, shall be excluded.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code, except
as otherwise provided in §
10.14; however, all rights, duties and obligations created or imposed by the
repealed ordinances shall continue and exist in all respects as if this code
had not been adopted and enacted.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   The adoption and enactment of this code shall not be construed to repeal or,
in any way, to modify or affect:
   (A)   Any special ordinance or ordinances regarding franchises, annexations,
dedications or zoning;
   (B)   Any ordinance making an appropriation;
   (C)   Any ordinance affecting any bond issue or by which any bond issue may
have been authorized;
   (D)   The running of the statute of limitations in force at the time this
code becomes effective;
   (E)   The continued existence and operation of any department, agency,
commission or office heretofore legally established or held;
   (F)   Any bond of any public officer;
   (G)   Any taxes, fees, assessments or other charges incurred or imposed;
and/or
   (H)   Any ordinances authorizing, ratifying, confirming, approving or
accepting any compact or contract with any other town, the state or any county
or subdivision thereof, or with the United States or any agency or
instrumentality thereof.
§ 10.15  EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their passage,
unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16  CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If any provision of this code conflicts with any other provision of this
code, any other local legislation, or any state or federal law, the provision
which is more stringent or restrictive in nature shall apply unless the context
clearly requires or indicates otherwise.
§ 10.17  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new chapter or
section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this code, the
proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to the indication thereof
as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title shall
be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18  ACTS BY AGENTS.
   When an act is required by an ordinance, the same being such that it may be
done as well by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be
construed to include all acts performed by an authorized agent.
§ 10.19  PROHIBITED ACTS INCLUDE CAUSING OR PERMITTING.
   Whenever in the ordinances of the town any act or omission is made unlawful,
it shall include causing, allowing, permitting, aiding, abetting, suffering or
concealing the fact of the act or omission.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY; CIVIL SANCTIONS.
   (A)   Generally; continuing violations.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided, a person convicted of a violation of
this code shall be guilty of a class one misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not
to exceed $2,500 or incarceration for a term not to exceed six months, or both
such fine and incarceration.
      (2)    For violations of this code that are continuous with respect to
time, each day the violation continues is a separate offense.
   (B)   Civil sanctions.
      (1)   Violations of this code for which a civil sanction is imposed shall
be treated as a civil offense and hearings and appeals shall be conducted in
accordance with the rules of procedure in civil traffic violation cases as set
forth in the Arizona Revised Statutes, rules of procedure in civil traffic
cases.
      (2)   A person who commits a violation of this code after previously
having been found responsible for committing three or more civil violations of
this code within an 18-month period, whether by admission, by payment of the
sanction, by default or by judgment after hearing, shall be guilty of a class
one misdemeanor. For purposes of calculating the 18-month period under this
subsection, the dates of the commission of the offenses are the determining
factor.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this code which are
designated as subject to civil sanction or penalty shall be punished by
imposition of a civil sanction not to exceed $500, unless another penalty is
specified.
         (a)   Any person who fails to comply with payment of a civil sanction
shall be guilty of violating A.R.S. § 13-2810, interference with judicial
proceedings. Such conviction shall not preclude the imposition of the
assessment of a default fee and/or other fees as set forth below.
         (b)   In addition to any civil sanction imposed, the municipal court
shall assess a default fee of not less than $75 for a failure to pay any civil
sanction imposed by the court.
         (c)   A judge or hearing officer may waive all or part of the default
fee if the payment of the fee would cause a financial hardship to the
defendant.
         (d)   If the court refers any delinquent fine, fee, sanction, penalty
or restitution for collection, any collection or attorney costs are recoverable
from the defendant and may be added to any balance due from the defendant to
the court.
         (e)   The imposition of a penalty does not prevent revocation or
suspension of a license, permit or franchise.
         (f)   Violations of this code that are continuous with respect to time
may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of a
penalty does not prevent equitable relief.
(Ord. 01-2009, passed 5-14-2009; Ord. 01-2017, passed 4-13-2017)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND COUNCIL
      
31.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
33.   PURCHASING
      
34.   MUNICIPAL COURT
      
35.   POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
      
36.   TAX CODE
CHAPTER 30:  MAYOR AND COUNCIL
Section
Council
   
30.001   Elected officers
   
30.002   Corporate powers
   
30.003   Duties of office
   
30.004   Vacancies in Council
   
30.005   Compensation
   
30.006   Oath of office
   
30.007   Bond
   
30.008   Financial disclosure statement
Mayor
   
30.020   Selection of Mayor
   
30.021   Vice Mayor
   
30.022   Acting Mayor
   
30.023   Powers and duties of the Mayor
   
30.024   Absence of Mayor
   
30.025   Vacancy in office of Mayor
   
30.026   Failure to sign documents
   
30.027   Disruption of meeting; penalty
   
30.028   Addressing the Council
Election
   
30.040   Primary election
   
30.041   Non-political ballot
   
30.042   General election
   
30.043   Election to office
   
30.044   Candidate financial disclosure
   
30.045   Initiative and referendum
Council Procedure
   
30.060   Regular meetings
   
30.061   Special meetings
   
30.062   Meetings to be public
   
30.063   Quorum
   
30.064   Agenda
   
30.065   Order of business
   
30.066   Committees and commissions
   
30.067   Voting
   
30.068   Suspension of rules
Ordinances, Resolutions and Contracts
   
30.080   Prior approval
   
30.081   Introduction
   
30.082   Reading of proposed ordinance
   
30.083   Requirements for an ordinance
   
30.084   Effective date of ordinances
   
30.085   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
30.085   Publishing required
   
30.086   Posting required
COUNCIL
§ 30.001  ELECTED OFFICERS.
   (A)   The elected officers of the town shall be seven Council members, one
of whom shall be designated as Mayor in accordance with §
30.020. The Mayor and Council members shall constitute the Council and shall
continue in office until assumption of duties of office by their duly elected
successors.
   (B)   The regular term of office for Council members shall be two years.
(1990 Code, § 2-1-1)
§ 30.002  CORPORATE POWERS.
   (A)   The corporate powers of the town shall be vested in the Council and
shall be exercised only as directed or authorized by law.
   (B)   All powers of the Council shall be exercised by ordinance, resolution,
order or motion.
(1990 Code, § 2-1-2)
§ 30.003  DUTIES OF OFFICE.
   The Council members shall assume the duties of office at the regularly
scheduled Council meeting next following the date of the general election at
which, or effective as of the date of which, the Council members were elected.
(1990 Code, § 2-1-3)
§ 30.004  VACANCIES IN COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Council shall fill a vacancy that may occur for whatever reason by
appointment until the next regularly scheduled Council election if the vacancy
occurs more than 30 days before the nomination petition deadline.
   (B)   If the vacancy occurs 30 days or less before the nomination petition
deadline, the vacancy shall be filled by appointment for the unexpired term.
(1990 Code, § 2-1-4)  (Ord. 03-2011, passed 1-12-2012)
§ 30.005  COMPENSATION.
   The compensation of elective officers of the town shall be fixed from time
to time by ordinance or resolution of the Council; provided, that said
compensation of any officer may not be increased or decreased except in
conformance with the provisions of the Arizona Constitution, Article IV, Part
2, § 17.
(1990 Code, § 2-1-5)
§ 30.006  OATH OF OFFICE.
   Immediately prior to assumption of the duties of office, each Council member
shall, in public, take and subscribe to the oath of office.
(1990 Code, § 2-1-6)
§ 30.007  BOND.
   Prior to taking office, the each Council member shall execute and file an
official bond, enforceable against the principal and his or her sureties,
conditioned on the due and faithful performance of his or her official duties,
payable to the state and to and for the use and benefit of the town or any
person who may be injured or aggrieved by the wrongful act or default of such
officer in his or her official capacity. A person so injured or aggrieved may
bring suit on such bond under provisions identical to those contained in A.R.S.
§ 38-260. Bonds shall be in such sum as shall be provided by resolution, and
the premium for such bonds shall be paid by the town.
(1990 Code, § 2-1-7)
§ 30.008  FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE STATEMENT.
   Each Council member shall file a financial disclosure statement in a form
and with such information as provided by resolution of the Council and pursuant
to state law.
(1990 Code, § 2-1-8)
MAYOR
§ 30.020  SELECTION OF MAYOR.
   The Council members shall, at the first regular meeting after their
election, choose a Mayor from among their number.
(1990 Code, § 2-2-1)
§ 30.021  VICE MAYOR.
   At the same meeting at which the Mayor is selected, the Council shall
designate one of its members as Vice Mayor, who shall serve at the pleasure of
the Council. The Vice Mayor shall perform the duties of the Mayor during his or
her absence or disability.
(1990 Code, § 2-2-2)
§ 30.022  ACTING MAYOR.
   In the absence or disability of both the Mayor and Vice Mayor, the Council
may designate another of its members to serve as acting Mayor who shall have
all the powers, duties and responsibilities of the Mayor during such absence or
disability.
(1990 Code, § 2-2-3)
§ 30.023  POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE MAYOR.
   The powers and duties of the Mayor shall include the following.
   (A)   He or she shall be the chief executive officer of the town.
   (B)   He or she shall be the Chairperson of the Council and preside over its
meetings.
   (C)   He or she shall enforce the provisions of this code.
   (D)   He or she shall execute and authenticate by his or her signature such
instruments as the Council or any statutes, ordinances or this code shall
require.
   (E)   He or she shall make such recommendations and suggestions to the
Council as he or she may consider proper.
   (F)   He or she may, by proclamation, declare a local emergency to exist due
to fire, conflagration, flood, earthquake, explosion, war, bombing or any other
natural or human-made calamity or disaster or in the event of the threat or
occurrence of riot, rout or affray or other acts of civil disobedience which
endanger life or property within the town; after declaration of such emergency,
the Mayor shall govern by proclamation and impose all necessary regulations to
preserve the peace and order of the town, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Imposition of a curfew in all or any portion of the town;
      (2)   Ordering the closing of any business;
      (3)   Closing to public access any public building, street or other
public place; and
      (4)   Calling upon regular or auxiliary law enforcement agencies and
organizations within or without the political subdivision for assistance.
   (G)   He or she is authorized and empowered to sign his or her name
officially for and in behalf of the town on all contracts, documents and papers
to which the town is a party, and to require that the conditions in any
instrument are faithfully performed.
   (H)   He or she shall perform such other duties required by state statute
and this code as well as those duties required as chief executive officer of
the town.
(1990 Code, § 2-2-4)
§ 30.024  ABSENCE OF MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall not absent himself or herself from the town for a greater
period than 15 consecutive days without the consent of the Council.
(1990 Code, § 2-2-5)
§ 30.025  VACANCY IN OFFICE OF MAYOR.
   In case of death, disability or resignation of the Mayor, the Council shall
elect a Mayor, by a majority vote, to fill the vacancy.
(1990 Code, § 2-2-6)
§ 30.026  FAILURE TO SIGN DOCUMENTS.
   If the Mayor is absent or refuses or fails to sign any ordinance,
resolution, contract, warrant, demand or other document his or her signature
for five consecutive days, the Vice Mayor or, in his or her absence, a duly
appointed acting Mayor is authorized to sign such ordinance or resolution,
contract, warrant, demand or other document which, when so signed, shall have
the same force and effect as if signed by the Mayor.
(1990 Code, § 2-2-7)
§ 30.027  DISRUPTION OF MEETING; PENALTY.
   It is unlawful to disturb or interrupt any regular or special meeting of the
Town Council; any person violating this section, in addition to being subject
to punishment as placed in § 10.99, shall be summarily ejected from said
meeting.
(1990 Code, § 2-2-8) (Ord. 01-2017, passed 4-13-2017)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 30.028  ADDRESSING THE COUNCIL.
   The public, in accord with other provisions of this code, shall have the
right to address the Council during public hearings and to petition the Council
at the call to the public, the time for which to be prescribed by Council.
Otherwise, any person wishing to address any regular or special meeting of the
Council shall obtain consent of the Mayor or consent of a majority of the
Council members present. The Mayor may limit repetitive comments made during
the course of a public hearing or meeting.
(1990 Code, § 2-2-9)
ELECTION
§ 30.040  PRIMARY ELECTION.
   (A)   Date of primary election. The primary election shall be held on the
date of the primary election of the state.
   (B)   Candidate at the primary election.
      (1)   Any candidate who receives at the primary election a majority of
all the votes cast at that election for that office shall be declared elected
to the office for which that person is a candidate effective as of the date of
the general election, and no further election shall be held as to said
candidate; provided that if more candidates receive a majority of votes cast
than there are seats to be filled for that office, then those candidates who
receive the highest number of votes equal to the number of seats to be filled
for the office shall be declared elected to that office.
      (2)   The majority of votes cast shall be determined pursuant to state
law.
(1990 Code, § 2-3-1)  (Ord. 03-2013, passed 11-14-2013; Ord. 01-2016, passed 5-
12-2016)
§ 30.041  NON-POLITICAL BALLOT.
   Nothing on the ballot in any election shall be indicative of the source of
the candidacy or of the support of the candidate.
(1990 Code, § 2-3-2)
§ 30.042  GENERAL ELECTION.
   (A)   Date of general election. The general election shall be held on the
date of the general election of the state.
   (B)   Candidates at the general election.
      (1)   If at any primary election there is any office for which no
candidate is elected, then as to such office, said election shall be considered
to be a primary election for nomination of candidates for such office, and the
second or general municipal election shall be held to vote for candidates to
fill such office.
      (2)   Candidates to be placed on the ballot at such second or general
municipal election:
         (a)   Shall be those not elected at such first election;
         (b)   Shall be equal in number to twice the number to be elected to
any given office or less than that number if there is less than that number
named on the primary election ballot; and
         (c)   Persons who receive the highest number of votes for the
respective offices at such first election shall be the only candidates at such
second election.
      (3)   If there is any person who, under the provisions of this chapter,
would have been entitled to become a candidate for any office except for the
fact that some other candidate received an equal number of votes therefor, then
all such persons receiving an equal number of votes shall likewise become
candidates for such office.
(1990 Code, § 2-3-3)  (Ord. 03-2013, passed 11-14-2013)
§ 30.043  ELECTION TO OFFICE.
   The candidates equal in number to the persons to be elected who receive the
highest number of votes shall be declared elected.
(1990 Code, § 2-3-4)
§ 30.044  CANDIDATE FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
   Each candidate for the office of Council member shall file a financial
disclosure statement when such candidate files a nomination paper. The
statement shall contain such information as required by resolution of the
Council pursuant to state law.
(1990 Code, § 2-3-5)
§ 30.045  INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM.
   (A)   Power reserved; time of election.
      (1)   There is reserved to the qualified electors of the town the power
of the initiative and the referendum as prescribed by the State Constitution.
      (2)   When a referendum or initiative election is required to be placed
on the ballot, the Council shall do so at the next regularly scheduled state
primary or general election. Alternatively, the Council may, at its discretion,
call a special election to be held on any date authorized by A.R.S. § 16-204 to
place a referendum or initiative election on the ballot.
   (B)   Number of signatures.
      (1)   The total number of registered voters qualified to vote at the last
municipal election, whether primary, general or special, immediately preceding
the date upon which any initiative petition is filed shall be the basis upon
which the number of qualified electors of the town required to file an
initiative petition shall be computed.
      (2)   The basis upon which the number of qualified electors of the town
required to file a referendum petition shall be as determined by state law.
   (C)   Time of filing.
      (1)   Initiative petitions shall be filed at least 120 days prior to the
date of the election at which the proposed measures are to be voted upon.
      (2)   Referendum petitions shall be filed within 30 days of the adoption
of the ordinance or resolution to be referred. If the Town Clerk is unable to
provide the petitioner with a full and correct copy of the ordinance or
resolution signed by the Mayor at the time of application for an official
number or on the same business day the application is submitted, the 30-day
period shall be calculated from the date such ordinance or resolution is
available.
   (D)   Sample ballots and publicity pamphlets. The procedures relating to
sample ballots and publicity pamphlets shall be as set forth in state law.
   (E)   Circulators. In addition to other requirements set forth in state law,
only qualified electors of the town, persons who are both qualified to register
to vote in the town and who are properly registered to vote in the town, may
circulate municipal initiative and referendum petitions.
(Ord. 01-93, passed 2-11-1993; Ord. 03-2013, passed 11-14-2013)
COUNCIL PROCEDURE
§ 30.060  REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The Council shall establish by resolution the date and time for all regular
meetings of the Council and an order of business for the agenda. All regular
meetings of the Council shall be held at the location specified in the notice
of meeting.
(1990 Code, § 2-4-1) (Ord. 04-2018, passed 11-15-2018)
§ 30.061  SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   The Mayor, or the Clerk upon the approval of four members of the Council,
may convene the Council at any time by notifying the members of the date, hour,
place and purpose of such special meeting. Notice of such meeting shall be made
pursuant to state law.
(1990 Code, § 2-4-2)
§ 30.062  MEETINGS TO BE PUBLIC.
   All proceedings of the Council shall be open to the public, except that upon
approval by a majority vote of the Council, the Council may meet in a closed
executive session in the manner provided by state law.
(1990 Code, § 2-4-3)
§ 30.063  QUORUM.
   Four Council members shall constitute a quorum for transacting business, but
a lesser number may adjourn from time to time and compel the attendance of
absent members in such manner and under such penalty as the Council may
prescribe. No such adjournment shall be to a day beyond the next stated meeting
of the Council.
(1990 Code, § 2-4-4)
§ 30.064  AGENDA.
   Prior to each Council meeting, or on or before a time fixed by the Council
for preparation and distribution of an agenda, whichever is earlier, the
Manager shall collect all written reports, communications, ordinances,
resolutions, contracts and other documents to be submitted to the Council,
prepare an agenda according to the order of business and furnish each Council
member, the Mayor and the Attorney with a copy.
(1990 Code, § 2-4-5)
§ 30.065  ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The business of the Council shall be taken up for consideration and
disposition in the following order.
   (A)   Call to order. The Mayor shall take the chair at the hour appointed
for the meeting and shall call the Council to order. In the absence of the
Mayor, the Vice Mayor shall call the Council to order. In the absence of both
the Mayor and Vice Mayor, the Clerk shall call the Council to order and an
acting Mayor shall be selected to chair the meeting. Upon the arrival of the
Mayor or the Vice Mayor, the Vice Mayor or the acting Mayor shall immediately
relinquish the chair upon the conclusion of the business immediately before the
Council. The Mayor shall preserve order and decorum, decide all questions of
order and conduct the proceedings of the meetings in accordance with the
parliamentary rules contained in Robert’s Rules of Order.
   (B)   Pledge of allegiance. Immediately following the call to order, the
Council shall recite the pledge of allegiance.
   (C)   Roll call. Before proceeding with the business of the Council, the
Clerk or his or her deputy shall call the roll of the members, and the names of
those members present shall be entered in the minutes. If a quorum is not
present, the members present may adjourn pursuant to §
30.063.
   (D)   Consent agenda. When any item of business requires action by the
Council, but is of a routine and noncontroversial nature, such item may be
presented as part of a consent agenda.
      (1)   There shall be no debate or discussion by any member of the Council
regarding any item on the consent agenda, beyond asking questions for simple
clarification.
      (2)   Upon objection by any member of the Council to inclusion of any
item on the consent agenda, that item shall be removed from the consent agenda
forthwith. Such objections may be recorded at any time prior to the taking of a
vote on the motion to approve the consent agenda. All such items shall be
considered individually, in the order in which they were objected to,
immediately following consideration of the consent agenda.
      (3)   Approval of the motion to approve the consent agenda shall be fully
equivalent to approval, adoption or enactment of each motion, resolution
ordinance or other item of business thereon, exactly as if each had been acted
upon individually.
   (E)   Minutes. The Clerk or his or her deputy shall read or present the
minutes of the preceding Council meeting, which shall be approved if correct.
Any errors noted shall be corrected.
   (F)   Committee reports and demands. Any reports of committees or demands
against the town shall be presented. The demands shall be approved or
disapproved by the Council.
   (G)   Call to the public. Petitions, remonstrances, communications and
comment or suggestions from citizens present shall be heard by the Council. All
such remarks shall be addressed to the Council as a whole, and not to any
member thereof. Such remarks shall be limited to five minutes, unless
additional time is granted by the Council. No person other than the individual
speaking shall enter into the discussion without the permission of the
presiding officer. No question shall be asked a Council member, except through
the presiding officer. Members of the Council may not discuss, consider or make
decisions on matters other than to direct staff to investigate and respond to
the petition or request the matter be scheduled for consideration at a future
meeting.
   (H)   Unfinished business. The Council shall consider any business that has
been previously considered and which is still unfinished.
   (I)   New business. The Council shall consider any business not heretofore
considered, including the introduction of ordinances and resolutions.
   (J)   Adjournment. The Council may, by a majority vote of those present,
adjourn from time to time to a specific date and hour. A motion to adjourn
shall always be in order and decided without debate.
(1990 Code, § 2-4-6)
§ 30.066  COMMITTEES AND COMMISSIONS.
   The Council may create such boards, committees and commissions, standing or
special, as it deems necessary. They shall consist of as many members and shall
perform such duties as the Council may require and shall exist at the pleasure
of the Council.
(1990 Code, § 2-4-7)
§ 30.067  VOTING.
   (A)   The Mayor may make and second motions and shall have a voice and vote
in all Council proceedings.
   (B)   Upon the request of any member, the ayes and nays upon any question
shall be taken and entered in the minutes.
(1990 Code, § 2-4-8)  (Ord. 01-2012, passed 5-3-2012)
§ 30.068  SUSPENSION OF RULES.
   Any of the provisions of this subchapter may be temporarily suspended in
connection with any matter under consideration by a recorded vote of three-
fourths of the members present, except that this section shall not be construed
to permit any action that is contrary to state statutes.
(1990 Code, § 2-4-9)
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND CONTRACTS
§ 30.080  PRIOR APPROVAL.
   (A)   All ordinances, resolutions and contract documents shall, before
presentation to the Council, have been reviewed as to form by the Attorney and
shall, when there are substantive matters of administration involved, be
referred to the person who is charged with the administration of the matters.
   (B)   Such person shall have an opportunity to present his or her
objections, if any, prior to the passage of the ordinance, resolution or
acceptance of the contract.
(1990 Code, § 2-5-1)
§ 30.081  INTRODUCTION.
   Ordinances, resolutions and other matters or subjects requiring action by
the Council shall be introduced and sponsored by a member of the Council,
except that the Attorney or the Manager may present ordinances, resolutions and
other matters or subjects to the Council, and any member of the Council may
assume sponsorship thereof by moving that such ordinance, resolution, matter or
subject be adopted; otherwise, they shall not be considered.
(1990 Code, § 2-5-2)
§ 30.082  READING OF PROPOSED ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Ordinances shall be read, prior to adoption, but may be read by title
only, if the Council, in possession of printed copies of said ordinance,
unanimously allow reading the title only.
   (B)   No ordinance, except an emergency ordinance, shall be put on its final
passage on the same day on which it was introduced.
(1990 Code, § 2-5-3)
§ 30.083  REQUIREMENTS FOR AN ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Each ordinance should have but one subject, the nature of which is
clearly expressed in the title.
   (B)   Whenever possible, each ordinance shall be introduced as an amendment
to this code or to an existing ordinance, and, in such case, the title of the
sections to be amended shall be included in the ordinance.
(1990 Code, § 2-5-4)
§ 30.084  EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   No ordinance, resolution or franchise shall become operative until 30 days
after its passage by the Council and approval by the Mayor, except measures
necessary for the immediate preservation of the peace, health or safety of the
town, but such an emergency measure shall not become immediately operative
unless it states in a separate section the reason why it is necessary that it
should become immediately operative, and unless it is approved by the
affirmative vote of three-fourths of all the members elected to the Council,
taken by ayes and nays.
(1990 Code, § 2-5-5)
§ 30.085  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision unless it shall be expressly so provided.
   (B)   The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty
incurred before the repeal took effect nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding
pending at the time of the repeal for any offense committed under the ordinance
repealed.
§ 30.085  PUBLISHING REQUIRED.
   Only such orders, ordinances, resolutions, motions, regulations or
proceedings of the Council shall be published as may be required by state
statutes or expressly ordered by the Council.
(1990 Code, § 2-5-7)
§ 30.086  POSTING REQUIRED.
   Every ordinance imposing any penalty, fine, forfeiture or other punishment
shall, after passage, be posted by the Clerk in three or more public places
within the town and an affidavit of the person who posted the ordinance shall
be filed in the office of the Clerk as proof of posting.
(1990 Code, § 2-5-8)
CHAPTER 31:  TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
31.01 through 31.19 Reserved
Planning and Zoning Commission
   
31.20   Established
   
31.21   Schedule of fees
§§ 31.01 through 31.19  RESERVED.
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
§ 31.20  ESTABLISHED.
   Pursuant to A.R.S. § 9-461(3), the Town Council is hereby designated as the
“Planning Agency”.
(1990 Code, § 2-7-1)
§ 31.21  SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   The Council shall be authorized to establish a uniform schedule of fees for
services with all receipts to be paid into the General Fund of the town. Such
fee schedule shall become effective upon approval by the Council.
(1990 Code, § 2-7-2)
CHAPTER 32:  OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
Officers in General
   
32.01   Officers
   
32.02   Additional officers
   
32.03   Bond
   
32.04   Vacancies; holding more than one office
   
32.05   Additional powers and duties
Officers
   
32.20   Town Manager
   
32.21   Town Clerk
   
32.22   Police Chief
   
32.23   Town Engineer
   
32.24   Town Attorney
   
32.25   Town Magistrate
   
32.26   Public Works Director
Personnel System
   
32.40   Creation and scope
   
32.41   Conditions of employment
   
32.42   Rules and regulations
   
32.43   Political contributions
Indemnification
   
32.55   Definitions
   
32.56   Persons to be indemnified or defended
   
32.57   Prerequesite; notification of Town Manager
   
32.58   Proceeding not initiated by the town
   
32.59   Criminal proceedings
   
32.60   No presumption created
   
32.61   Proceeding initiated by the town
   
32.62   Success on the merits
   
32.63   Determination by legal counsel
   
32.64   Indemnification not deemed exclusive remedy
OFFICERS IN GENERAL
§ 32.01  OFFICERS.
   There is hereby created the office of Town Manager, who shall be appointed
by and serve at the pleasure of the Council. There are further hereby created
the offices of Town Clerk, Town Attorney, Chief of Police, Fire Chief, Town
Engineer, Public Works Director and Librarian, who shall be appointed by and
serve at the pleasure of the Town Manager. There us further created the office
of Town Magistrate, who shall be appointed by and may be removed by the town in
the manner provided in §
34.15.
(1990 Code, § 3-1-1)
§ 32.02  ADDITIONAL OFFICERS.
   The Town Manager may appoint and remove from time to time such other
officers as he or she may deem necessary and that are not provided for in this
code or state statute, provided such positions are authorized by the Council or
in the annual budget.
(1990 Code, § 3-1-2)
§ 32.03  BOND.
   The Council may require each officer of the town to give bond for the due
discharge of his or her duties in such sums and with such security as it may
direct and approve as determined by resolution. The town shall pay the costs of
such bond.
(1990 Code, § 3-1-3)
§ 32.04  VACANCIES; HOLDING MORE THAN ONE OFFICE.
   Any vacancy that shall occur in any town office, except the Town Council and
Town Manager, shall be filled by appointment by the Town Manager, provided that
one person may hold more than one office and that at the discretion of the Town
Manager, the functions of a town official may be validly performed and
discharged by a deputy or another town officer, or an otherwise qualified
employee of the town.
(1990 Code, § 3-1-4)
§ 32.05  ADDITIONAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   In addition to any powers and duties prescribed in this code, each officer
shall have such further powers, perform such further duties and hold such other
office as may be directed by the Town Manager or Town Council through
ordinance, resolution or order.
(1990 Code, § 3-1-5)
OFFICERS
§ 32.20  TOWN MANAGER.
   (A)   Office created. The office of the Town Manager is hereby created and
established. The Town Manager shall be appointed by the Council wholly on the
basis of administrative and executive ability and qualifications and shall hold
office for and at the pleasure of the Council.
   (B)   Bond. The Town Manager shall furnish a corporate surety bond to be
approved by the Council in such sum as may be determined by the Council and
shall be conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties imposed upon
the Town Manager as herein prescribed. Any premium for such bond shall be a
proper charge against the town.
   (C)   Compensation. The Town Manager shall receive such compensation as the
Council shall fix from time to time and shall accrue a vacation privilege at
the rate of one day per full calendar month of service.
   (D)   Removal procedure. The Town Manager may be removed from office by a
majority vote of the Council, with or without cause.
   (E)   Powers and duties. The Town Manager shall be the administrative head
of the town government under the direction and control of the Council, except
as otherwise provided in this chapter.
      (1)   The Town Manager shall be responsible to the Council for the proper
administration of all affairs of the town.
      (2)   In addition to the Town Manager’s general powers as administrative
head and not as a limitation thereof, it shall be the duty of the Town Manager
and he or she shall have the powers set forth in the following divisions:
         (a)   Appoint and, when necessary for the good of the town, suspend or
remove all officers and employees of the town not appointed by the Council. He
or she may authorize the head of a Department or office to appoint, suspend or
remove subordinates in such office or Department;
         (b)   Prepare the budget annually and submit it to the Council
together with a message describing the important features and be responsible
for its administration after adoption;
         (c)   Prepare and submit to the Council at the end of each fiscal year
a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the town
during the preceding year;
         (d)   Keep the Council advised of the financial condition and future
needs of the town and make such recommendations as he may deem desirable;
         (e)   Recommend to the Council a standard schedule of pay for each
position in the town service, including minimum and maximum rates, and
determine employee compensation according to such standard schedule of pay.
Authorize the payment of overtime pay for such non-exempt employees as may work
in excess of a normal work period. Such rates of pay and periods of work shall
be in conformity with wages and salaries enacted by the Council;
         (f)   Recommend to the Council from time to time adoption of such
measures which he or she may deem necessary or expedient for the health, safety
or welfare of the community or for the improvement of administrative services;
         (g)   Have supervisory authority over all departments and shall
therefore have authority to direct the activities of and to hire and terminate
all employees including department heads except those officers appointed by the
Council;
         (h)   Attend all meetings of the Council unless excused therefrom and
take part in the discussion of all matters coming before the Council. He or she
shall be entitled to notice of all regular and special meetings of the Council;
         (i)   See that all laws and ordinances are duly enforced;
         (j)   Investigate the affairs of the town and any Department or
division thereof. Investigate all complaints in relation to matters concerning
the administration of the town government and in regard to service maintained
by the public utilities in the town, and see that all franchises, permits and
privileges granted by the town are faithfully observed; and
         (k)   Perform such other duties as may be required by the Council, not
inconsistent with state law or town ordinances.
   (F)   Council not to interfere with appointments or removals. With regard to
officers and employees appointed by the Town Manager, neither the Council nor
any of its members shall direct or request the appointment of any person to, or
his or her removal or suspension from such office by the Town Manager or any of
his or her subordinates, or in any manner take part in the appointment or
removal of such officers and employees in the administrative services of the
town. Except for the purpose of inquiry, the Council and its members shall deal
with the administrative service solely through the Town Manager.
(1990 Code, § 3-2-1)
§ 32.21  TOWN CLERK.
   (A)   Records.
      (1)   The Clerk shall keep a true and correct record of all business
transacted by the Council and any other records that either pertain to the
business of the town or that the Council directs.
      (2)   The Clerk shall number, plainly label and file separately in a
suitable cabinet all resolutions, ordinances, notices, deeds, surveys, leases,
paid and unpaid vouchers, inventories, letters, orders and other documents of
whatever nature.
   (B)   Public inspection of records. The Clerk shall keep convenient for
public inspection all public records and public documents under his or her
control, as provided by state statute.
   (C)   Monthly reports. The Clerk shall prepare and collect from town
officers and employees such monthly reports prepared in such manner and to
include such information as may be directed by the Council.
   (D)   Minutes. The Clerk shall prepare or cause to be prepared all minutes
of Council proceedings and ensure their correctness and accuracy.
   (E)   Ordinances, resolutions, budgets and notices. The Clerk shall process,
record, file, publish and, if required by state statute, post all ordinances,
resolutions, budgets and notices that may be passed by the Council.
   (F)   Duties as Treasurer.
      (1)   The Clerk shall hold the office of Town Treasurer and receive and
safely keep all monies that shall come to the town and pay out the same when
authorized by the Council. He or she shall keep a separate record and account
of each different fund provided by the Council, apportion the monies received
among the different funds as prescribed by the Council, and keep a complete set
of books showing: every money transaction of the town, the state of each fund,
from what source the money in each fund was derived and for what purpose
expended, and he or she shall make monthly reports to the Council of all
receipts and disbursements and the balance in each fund.
      (2)   At the end of the fiscal year, he or she shall make a full and
detailed statement of the receipts and expenditures of the town during the
year, specifying the different sources of revenue and the amount received from
each, all appropriations made by the Mayor and Council, and the object for
which they were made, and the amount of money expended under each, the
evidences of indebtedness issued, and what portion remains thereof outstanding,
with the rate and amount of interest due thereon, and the amount of cash on
hand.
   (G)   Term expirations. The Clerk shall notify the appointing authority of
the impending expiration of the term of office of a member of any board or
commission at least 30 days before the expiration of the term.
   (H)   Election official. The Clerk shall be the town election official and
perform those duties required by state statute.
   (I)   Business licenses. The Clerk shall issue or cause to be issued all
business licenses that may be prescribed by state statute or this code.
   (J)   Warrants. The Clerk shall countersign all warrants and keep a “Warrant
Register and Abstract of Expenditures” showing the number and amount of
warrants issued and the person to whom issued, the date redeemed, the interest
paid and the several funds against which each of said warrants is drawn.
   (K)   Claims. All claims against the town must be filed in writing with the
Clerk. Claims must present a full account of the items and must contain a
verification under oath by the claimant to the effect that the claim is
correct, reasonable and just and that no part of said claim has been paid. All
such claims must be approved by the Council before payment can be made.
   (L)   Damages. All claims for damages against the town must be filed with
the Town Clerk pursuant to A.R.S. § 12-821.
   (M)   Administrative duties. The Clerk shall perform those administrative
responsibilities and duties that are conferred upon him or her by the Council
in addition to those specified in this code.
(1990 Code, § 3-2-2)
§ 32.22  POLICE CHIEF.
   The Chief of Police shall perform duties as may be required of him or her by
§§
35.01 through
35.07 and the laws of the state.
(1990 Code, § 3-2-3)
§ 32.23  TOWN ENGINEER.
   The Engineer shall have charge of the town streets, sewers and waterworks
and shall perform such duties as may be required of him or her by law and such
other duties as the Town Manager may direct.
(1990 Code, § 3-2-4)
§ 32.24  TOWN ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Attorney shall act as the legal counselor and advisor of the
Council and other officers and, as such, shall give his or her opinion in
writing when requested.
   (B)   He or she shall draft all deeds, contracts, conveyances, ordinances,
resolutions and other legal instruments when required by the Town Manager.
   (C)   He or she shall approve as to form, in writing, all drafts of
contracts and all officer or other bonds before final approval or acceptance
thereof by the Council.
   (D)   He or she shall return, within ten days, all ordinances and
resolutions submitted to him or her for consideration by the Town Manager, with
his or her approval or disapproval as to form noted thereon, together with his
or her reasons therefor.
   (E)   He or she, or a designee retained with the approval of the Town
Manager, shall prosecute and defend all suits, actions or causes where the town
is a party, and shall report to the Council, when required, the condition of
any suit or action to which the town is a party.
(1990 Code, § 3-2-5)
§ 32.25  TOWN MAGISTRATE.
   The Town Magistrate shall be the presiding officer of the Municipal Court,
and the Magistrate and such additional Magistrates as deemed necessary shall be
appointed by the Town Manager and shall perform those functions necessary to
the maintenance of the Municipal Court, as provided by state statute Chapter
34.
(1990 Code, § 3-2-6)
§ 32.26  PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Public Works Director shall:
      (1)   Supervise the grading, surfacing, repair and maintenance of all
streets and alleys;
      (2)   Have charge of and supervise the repair and upkeep of all public
works equipment;
      (3)   Have supervisory authority over all individuals employed by the
town to carry on the appropriate public works of the town including but not
limited to streets, parks, cemetery and sewer;
      (4)   Be responsible for the accomplishment of such other work of the
town including health and sanitation which the Town Manager may from time to
time assign to him or her; and
      (5)   Present to the Town Manager each month a written report of the
public work accomplished the preceding month, and also, as far as can be
foreseen, public work planned for the current month.
   (B)   The Public Works Director may supervise the installation and
maintenance of all water mains and water services, except the installation of
water mains which are accomplished by contract.
(1990 Code, § 3-2-7)
PERSONNEL SYSTEM
§ 32.40  CREATION AND SCOPE.
   There is hereby adopted a merit system for the employees of the town, the
provisions of which shall apply to all employees of the town, except elected
officials, officers of the town appointed by the Council, persons engaged under
contract to supply expert, professional or technical services, temporary
employees, volunteer firefighters and volunteer personnel who receive no
regular compensation from the town.
(1990 Code, § 3-3-1)
§ 32.41  CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   The appointment, promotion and tenure of every employee shall be
conditioned solely on merit and fitness and the satisfactory performance of the
duties and responsibilities assigned.
   (B)   No employee or applicant for employment shall be discriminated against
on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, age, political affiliation or
handicapped status.
(1990 Code, § 3-3-2)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.42  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Council may adopt by resolution rules and regulations to give effect to
this subchapter, which may be modified or changed from time to time, but such
rules and regulations shall follow the generally accepted principles of good
personnel administration.
(1990 Code, § 3-3-3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.43  POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS.
   No officer, official or employee of the town shall use any influence or
pressure upon any employee to obtain any assessment or contribution of money or
time, either direct or indirect, for any political campaign or personal gain.
(1990 Code, § 3-3-4)  Penalty, see §
10.99
INDEMNIFICATION
§ 32.55  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEFEND.  To provide legal counsel to represent the person in a proceeding.
   INDEMNIFY.  To reimburse an officer or employee for actual expenses incurred
related to a proceeding.
   PERSON.
      (1)   Current and former officers, employees, Town Council members and
members of committees, commissions and boards of the town; and
      (2)   The spouse of a current or former officer, employee, Town Council
member or member of a committee, commission or board of the town to the extent
such spouse in named in a proceeding solely because of the spouse's marital
relationship to such officer, employee, Town Council member or member of a
committee, commission or board of the town who is named in a proceeding.
   PROCEEDING.  Any threatened, pending or completed action or suit, whether
civil, criminal, or administrative.
§ 32.56  PERSONS TO BE INDEMNIFIED OR DEFENDED.
   (A)   Any person made a party or threatened to be made a party to any
proceeding because such person is an officer, employee, council member or
member of a committee, commission or board of the town shall be indemnified and
defended in accordance with this section.
   (B)   The indemnification and defense obligations set forth in this section
do not apply to acts of an officer, employee, council member or member of a
committee, commission or board for any conduct that exceeds the authority
granted to the person by virtue of his or her position.
   (C)   The indemnification and defense obligations set forth in this
subchapter do not apply to acts of an officer, employee, council member, or
member of a committee, commission or board of the town being civilly or
criminally prosecuted for acts constituting a violation of the town code.
   (D)   The town reserves the right not to indemnify any person with respect
to an award of damages where such person is adjudged by a court as negligent or
committing misconduct in the performance of his or her duty to the town.
§ 32.57  PREREQUISITE; NOTIFICATION OF TOWN MANAGER.
   As a prerequisite to indemnification of defense under this subchapter, a
person shall notify the Town Manager as soon as he has knowledge that he or she
is made a party or threatened to be made a party to any proceeding. If there is
no Town Manager, the interim Town Manager or Town Clerk shall be notified.
§ 32.58  PROCEEDING NOT INITIATED BY THE TOWN.
   Except as provided in §
32.56, if the proceeding is one not initiated by the town:
   (A)   The person shall be indemnified against his or her expenses, including
attorney's fees, costs, judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement
actually and reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with the
proceeding.
   (B)   The town, either directly or through its insurance carrier, shall
defend the person in connection with the proceeding.
§ 32.59  CRIMINAL PROCEEDINGS.
   Except as provided in §
32.56 , if the proceeding is a criminal proceeding, the person shall be
indemnified and defended if he or she had no reasonable cause to believe his or
her conduct was unlawful.
§ 32.60  NO PRESUMPTION CREATED.
   With respect to the indemnification and defense obligations under §§
32.58 or
32.59, a termination of the proceeding by judgment, order, settlement,
conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not by
itself create a presumption that the person acted, or failed to act, other that
in good faith and in a manner which he reasonably believed to be in or not
opposed to the best interest of the town, and with respect to any criminal
proceeding, shall not by itself create a presumption that the person had
reasonable cause to believe that his or her conduct was unlawful.
§ 32.61  PROCEEDING INITIATED BY THE TOWN.
   The indemnification and defense obligations set forth in this section shall
not apply to proceedings initiated by the town to procure a judgment against
any person in the town's favor unless a determination is made pursuant to §
32.63 that the requirements of this section have been met. Notwithstanding
anything else set forth in this section, if a court enters a judgment that the
person's actions exceeded his or her authority, such person shall reimburse the
town for all costs incurred by it in providing the indemnification and/or
defense of the proceeding.
§ 32.62  SUCCESS ON THE MERITS.
   To the extent that a person covered by this subchapter has been successful
on the merits or otherwise in defense of any proceeding covered by this
subchapter or in the defense of any claim, issue, or matter therein, he or she
shall be indemnified against expenses, including attorney's fees and costs,
actually and reasonably incurred by him or her in connection therewith.
§ 32.63  DETERMINATION BY LEGAL COUNSEL.
   Any indemnification made pursuant to this section and any defense authorized
by this section shall be provided by the town only as authorized in the
specific case upon a determination that indemnification or defense of the
person is proper in the circumstances because he or her has met the
requirements set forth in this section. Indemnification and defense shall be
made unless the Town Attorney or independent legal counsel engaged by the town
determines that the requirements of this section have not been met.
§ 32.64  INDEMNIFICATION NOT DEEMED EXCLUSIVE REMEDY.
   The indemnification provided by this section shall not be deemed exclusive
of any other rights to which those indemnified may be entitled. The
indemnification provided by this subchapter shall be supplemental to and excess
to any valid and collectible insurance coverage.
CHAPTER 33:  PURCHASING
Section
   
33.01   In general
   
33.02   Exclusive service
   
33.03   Bidding
   
33.04   Determination of lowest responsible bidder
   
33.05   Performance bond
   
33.06   Emergency purchases
   
33.07   Forms
   
33.08   Professional services
   
33.09   Cooperative purchasing
   
33.10   Purchases from Mayor or Council members
§ 33.01  IN GENERAL.
   (A)   The Town Manager shall be the purchasing agent for the town.
   (B)   No purchase or contract for services of any kind or description,
payment for which is to be made from funds of the town, shall be made by the
purchasing agent, or any officer, employee or agent of the town, except in the
manner set forth in this chapter, and unless said purchase is in accordance
with the adopted town budget.
      (1)   Under $1,000. Whenever any contemplated purchase or contract for
services is for the sum of less than $1,000, the purchasing agent may order the
item as needed without further formality.
      (2)   $1,000 to $2,499 inclusive. Whenever any contemplated purchase or
contract for services is for the sum of at least $1,000 but not more than
$2,499, the purchasing agent shall solicit at least three bids for the item or
service. Said solicitation may be orally obtained by him or her, and he or she
may then award the purchase or contract of service to the lowest responsible
bidder.
      (3)   $2,500 to $9,999 inclusive. Whenever any contemplated purchase or
contract for services is for the sum of more than $2,500 but less than $9,999,
the purchasing agent shall solicit at least three written bids for the item or
service on bid forms and award the purchase or contract of services to the
lowest responsible bidder.
      (4)   $10,000 and over. Whenever any contemplated purchase or contract
for services, except for professional services as defined in §
33.08, is for the sum of $10,000 or more, the purchasing agent shall cause to
be published in two issues of a newspaper of general circulation, notice
inviting bids, which notice shall be published at least five days prior to the
date set for the receipt of the bids. The notice herein required shall include
a general description of the articles to be purchased or services to be
performed and the time and place for opening bids. In addition, the purchasing
agent shall post a notice inviting bids in the Town Hall, and may also mail to
responsible prospective suppliers a copy of the notice in the newspaper.
      (5)   No contract of $10,000 or more; exceptions. No contract of $10,000
or more shall be let except by the Council. Whenever any contemplated purchase
or contract for services is for the sum of $10,000 or more, the purchasing
agent shall present the bids to the Council for approval, and advise the
Council of the advantages or disadvantages of contract and bid proposals.
      (6)   Construction contracts; contracts, technical requirements.
Construction contracts and contracts with technical requirements shall be
procured in accordance with A.R.S. Title 34, except if a construction contract
is exempt from the bidding requirements under A.R.S. Title 34, the provisions
of this chapter shall apply
(1990 Code, § 3-4-1)  (Ord. 04-12, passed 1-10-2013)
§ 33.02  EXCLUSIVE SERVICE.
   In the event that there is only one firm or company or individual capable of
providing a particular service or commodity and such services or commodities
cannot be secured from other persons or companies, §
33.01 shall not be applicable, and such services or commodities can be secured
without bidding.
(1990 Code, § 3-4-2)
§ 33.03  BIDDING.
   The purchasing agent and all parties contracting with the town, except those
parties contracting for professional services as defined in §
33.08, shall follow the procedure set forth in this section in relation to all
bids required under §
33.01(B)(4).
   (A)   All notices and solicitation of bids shall state the time and place
for opening.
   (B)   All bids shall be submitted sealed to the purchasing agent and shall
be identified as bids on the envelope.
   (C)   All bids shall be opened in public at the time and place stated in the
public notice.
   (D)   A tabulation of all bids received shall be posted in the Town Hall for
public inspection.
   (E)   The purchasing agent under §
33.01(B)(1), (B)(2) and (B)(3) and the Council under §
33.01(B)(4) shall have the authority to reject any and all bids and parts of
all bids and re-advertise or re-solicit bids.
(1990 Code, § 3-4-3)
§ 33.04  DETERMINATION OF LOWEST RESPONSIBLE BIDDER.
   (A)   Unless the Council or purchasing agent shall exercise the right of
rejection as provided by §
33.03, the purchase or contract shall be made from and with the lowest
responsible bidder for the entire purchase or contract or for any part thereof.
   (B)   In determining the lowest responsible bidder, the Council and
purchasing agent shall consider:
      (1)   The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract or provide the service required;
      (2)   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the services
promptly or within the specified time, without delay or interference;
      (3)   The quality of performance of previous contracts;
      (4)   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances of the town;
      (5)   The financial resources and ability of the bidder to perform the
contract; and
      (6)   The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies or
services.
(1990 Code, § 3-4-4)
§ 33.05  PERFORMANCE BOND.
   The purchasing agent shall have the authority to require a performance bond,
in cash or otherwise, for such amount as he or she may deem sufficient to
secure the execution of the contract for the best interest of the town.
(1990 Code, § 3-4-5)
§ 33.06  EMERGENCY PURCHASES.
   (A)   In case of an emergency which requires immediate purchases of supplies
or services and when time is of the essence, the Mayor shall be empowered to
authorize the purchasing agent to purchase or secure services without complying
with the procedures of this chapter.
   (B)   A full report in writing of the circumstances of any emergency
purchase shall be filed by the purchasing agent with the Town Council at its
next meeting.
(1990 Code, § 3-4-6)
§ 33.07  FORMS.
   The purchasing agent shall prescribe and maintain such forms as he or she
shall find necessary for the operation of the provisions of this chapter.
(1990 Code, § 3-4-7)
§ 33.08  PROFESSIONAL SERVICES.
   Unless required by the Council, the provisions of this chapter shall not
apply to professional services. Such services shall include, but not be limited
to, the following: physicians, attorneys, engineers and similar professions.
(1990 Code, § 3-4-8)
§ 33.09  COOPERATIVE PURCHASING.
   This chapter shall not apply to purchases made by, through or with the state
or its political subdivisions. The town may make purchases or award contracts
for services without a formal bidding process whenever either another
governmental unit or a purchasing cooperative have done so for the same item or
service if, in the opinion of the purchasing agent, a separate bidding process
is not likely to result in a lower price for such items or services.
(1990 Code, § 3-4-9)  (Am. Ord. 03-2019, passed 9-12-2019)
§ 33.10  PURCHASES FROM MAYOR OR COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   Pursuant to A.R.S. § 38-503(C), the town, through its Common Council, may
purchase supplies, materials and equipment not to exceed $300 in costs in any
single transaction or a total of $1,000 annually, from the Mayor or any member
of the Common Council without using competitive public bidding procedures
according to an annually adopted town policy.
(1990 Code, § 3-4-10)
CHAPTER 34:  MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Municipal Court established; jurisdiction
   
34.02   Proceedings of Court
   
34.03   Court user charge; City Court Enhancement Fund
Presiding Officer
   
34.15   Appointment; compensation
   
34.16   Powers and duties
   
34.17   Hearing Officers
 
   
34.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01  MUNICIPAL COURT ESTABLISHED; JURISDICTION.
   There is hereby established in the town a Municipal Court, which shall have
jurisdiction of all violations of this code, and jurisdiction concurrently with
justices of the peace of precincts in which the town is located, for state law
violations committed within the limits of the town.
(1990 Code, § 5-1-1)
§ 34.02  PROCEEDINGS OF COURT.
   The proceedings of the Municipal Court, shall be conducted in accordance
with the State Constitution, the applicable state statutes including A.R.S. §§ 
22-421 et seq., and rules of the State Supreme Court pertaining to police
courts.
(1990 Code, § 5-3-1)
§ 34.03  COURT USER CHARGE; CITY COURT ENHANCEMENT FUND.
   (A)   A City Court user charge of $10 shall be imposed by the City Court on
all offenses processed by the court which result in an order or agreement to
pay any fine, sanction, penalty or assessment or participate in any Court
authorized diversion program. The user charge shall not be imposed on civil
parking violations. The court user charge shall be collected by the Court for
deposit into the City Court Enhancement Fund.
   (B)   A City Court Enhancement Fund is hereby established for the exclusive
purpose of enhancing technology, operation and facilities of the City Court.
The Fund shall be administered by the presiding Judge. Monies in the Fund shall
supplement funds provided to the City Court through the city budget process and
shall be used for city court technology, operation and facilities. Interest
earned on monies in this Fund shall be credited to the Court Enhancement Fund.
(Ord. 02-98, passed 5-14-1998)
PRESIDING OFFICER
§ 34.15  APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The presiding officer of the Municipal Court shall be the Town
Magistrate. The Town Council shall appoint and may remove for cause the Town
Magistrate and such Assistant Town Magistrates as are necessary. The Magistrate
and all assistant Magistrates shall be appointed for a period of two years. The
Town Council may appoint full-time, part-time or pro tempore Town Magistrate
(s).
   (B)   In the event of a vacancy in the office of the Town Magistrate, the
Council may appoint an interim town magistrate, who may either be a current
Municipal Judge or a Judge from another county. The selection of the Town
Magistrate shall serve until a presiding officer is appointed in accordance
with this section. In no event shall the interim presiding officer serve in
that position more than six months.
(1990 Code, § 5-2-1)  (Ord. 02-2012, passed 5-3-2012)
§ 34.16  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Magistrate shall exercise powers, duties and responsibilities
as provided by the Constitution and laws of the state, this code and the town
ordinances.
   (B)   The powers and duties of the Town Magistrate shall include, but are
not necessarily limited to, the following:
      (1)   The keeping of a docket in which shall be entered each action and
the proceedings of the Court therein;
      (2)   The responsibility for fixing and receiving all bonds, bails,
fines, penalties, fees and other monies as provided by law and in accordance
with town financial procedures;
      (3)   The delivery of the payment of all fines, penalties, fees and other
monies collected by the Court to the Town Treasurer in accordance with state
law and the town’s accounting procedure;
      (4)   Submitting a monthly report to the Town Manager summarizing Court
activities for that month, including an itemized statement showing the amount
of money collected, the purpose for such collection, the name of the person
from whom the collections were received and the date such funds were paid to
the Magistrate;
      (5)   Preparation of a schedule of traffic and criminal violations as
provided by law, listing specific bail for each violation or offense; and
      (6)   Supervise and administer a work offender program upon adoption by
the Town Council.
(1990 Code, § 5-2-2)
§ 34.17  HEARING OFFICERS.
   The Town Manager may appoint one or more Hearing Officers to preside over
civil traffic violation cases when the appointment of such hearing officers is
necessary to assure prompt disposition of civil traffic violation cases.
Hearing Officers may hear and dispose of civil traffic violation cases which
are appealable to the Superior Court pursuant to A.R.S. Title 22, Chapter 2,
Article 4 under the supervision of the presiding officer of the Municipal
Court.
(1990 Code, § 5-2-3)
§ 34.99  PENALTY.
   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this code which is
classified as a Class 1 misdemeanor, upon conviction thereof, may be punished
by a fine not to exceed $2,500, by imprisonment for a period not to exceed six
months, by a term of probation not to exceed three years, or by any combination
of the fine, imprisonment and probation.
(Ord. 01-2017, passed 4-13-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Misdemeanor penalty authorized, see A.R.S. § 9-240(B)(28)(b)
CHAPTER 35:  POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
Section
Police Department
   
35.01   Created; composition
   
35.02   Rewards
   
35.03   Witness fees
   
35.04   Departmental rules and regulations
   
35.05   Duties of Police Department
   
35.06   Answering calls outside of town
   
35.07   Reserve police officers appointment; pre-assignment training; official
status and compensation
Fire Department
   
35.20   Created; composition
   
35.21   Departmental rules and regulations
   
35.22   Reimbursement
   
35.23   Appointment; powers and duties of Chief
   
35.24   Appointment and dismissal of firefighters
   
35.25   Entry upon adjacent property
   
35.26   Equipment
   
35.27   Providing fire protection outside the town
   
35.28   Acknowledgment of right-of-way
   
35.29   Fire alarms
   
35.30   Orders of Fire Chief
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.01  CREATED; COMPOSITION.
   There is hereby created a Police Department for the town, which shall
consist of a Chief of Police and as many police officers and reserve police
officers as may from time to time be deemed necessary by the Council for the
safety and good order of the town.
(Ord. 03-2002, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 35.02  REWARDS.
   The Chief of Police, for meritorious service rendered by any member of the
police force in due discharge of his or her duty, may permit such member to
retain for his or her benefit, so far as he or she may be permitted by law, any
reward or present tendered him or her therefor, and it shall be cause for
removal for any member of the force to receive any such reward without notice
thereof to the Chief of Police and without his or her permission.
(Ord. 03-2002, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 35.03  WITNESS FEES.
   (A)   Every member of the Police Department shall appear as a witness
whenever necessary in a prosecution for a violation of any local, state or
federal law.
   (B)   No such member shall retain any witness fee for service as a witness
in any action or suit to which the town is a party.
   (C)   Any fees paid for such services shall be turned over to the town.
(Ord. 03-2002, passed 11-14-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.04  DEPARTMENTAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police may make or prescribe such Departmental rules and
regulations, as he or she shall deem advisable.
   (B)   Such rules and regulations, when approved by the Council, shall be
binding on members of the Police Department. Such rules and regulations may
cover the conduct of the members, uniforms and equipment to be worn or carried,
hours of service, vacations and all other similar matters necessary or
desirable for the better efficiency of the Department.
(Ord. 03-2002, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 35.05  DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It is the duty of the Police Department, under the direction of the Chief of
Police, to:
   (A)   Enforce this code and the statutes of the state within jurisdictional
limits as conferred by law and to arrest and charge the violators thereof;
   (B)   Deliver any persons who may be confined in the jail upon conviction of
a crime committed under the jurisdiction of the Municipal Court to the Police
Chief or any officer of the town authorized by him or her who shall at any time
demand such prisoners. Any such authorized person receiving such prisoners
shall work such prisoners on the streets or alleys of the town or on any and
all authorized work as may be determined by the Town Manager;
   (C)   Render such account of the Police Department, its duties and receipts
as maybe required by the Town Manager;
   (D)   Enforce the traffic regulations of the town as specified in Title VII,
and enforce the traffic laws of the state within the town; and
   (E)   Inspect and ascertain the condition of traffic control devices of
every description, which have been erected within the town on the authority of
the Council and to notify the Town Manager of any defects found therein.
(Ord. 03-2002, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 35.06  ANSWERING CALLS OUTSIDE THE TOWN.
   The members of the Police Department of the town are duly authorized to
answer calls for aid and assistance beyond the corporate limits of the town
pursuant to mutual aid agreements and state statutes.
(Ord. 03-2002, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 35.07  RESERVE POLICE OFFICERS APPOINTMENT; PRE-ASSIGNMENT TRAINING; OFFICIAL
STATUS AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall appoint, with approval of the Town Manager,
persons to be known as reserve police officers. Persons employed by the town in
any kind of security, safety or law enforcement function are not eligible for
appointment as reserve police officers.
   (B)   The Chief of Police may, at no cost to the Police Department or the
town, conduct a period of pre-assignment formal training of reserve police
officers as the Chief of Police shall find necessary for the performance of the
required duties.
   (C)   Reserve police officers shall exercise such limited police powers as
maybe delegated to them according to established rules and regulations adopted
by the Council. Reserve police officers shall not be subject to, or acquire any
rights under, the merit system rules, the police pension funds or any other
employee benefits of the state or of the town.
   (D)   Reserve police officers shall receive no compensation from the town or
the Police Department of the town for duties performed.
(Ord. 03-2002, passed 11-14-2002)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.20  CREATED; COMPOSITION.
   There is hereby created a Volunteer Fire Department for the town, which
shall consist of a Fire Chief, and as many firefighters as may be deemed
necessary by the Fire Chief, with the approval of the Town Manager.
(1990 Code, § 4-3-1)
§ 35.21  DEPARTMENTAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Fire Department shall be operated and managed in accordance with such
Departmental rules and regulations as may from time to time be established by
the Fire Chief with the approval of the Council.
(1990 Code, § 4-3-2)
§ 35.22  REIMBURSEMENT.
   Volunteer firefighters shall be reimbursed for expenses incurred in
performing their duties as may be determined by the Fire Chief with the
approval of the Town Manager.
(1990 Code, § 4-3-3)
§ 35.23  APPOINTMENT, POWERS AND DUTIES OF CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief of the Fire Department shall be appointed by the Town
Manager, and it shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to:
   (A)   Be responsible for the personnel, morale and general efficiency of the
Fire Department;
   (B)   Direct the operations of the Fire Department, subject to the rules and
regulations thereof;
   (C)   Be present at all fires, if possible, and plan and direct the
extinguishment thereof. During the progress of a fire, the authority of the
Fire Chief shall be absolute in all matters directly concerning the
extinguishment of the fire and disposition of property endangered by it;
   (D)   Conduct suitable drills or instruction in the operation and handling
of equipment, first aid and rescue work, salvage, a study of buildings in the
town, water supplies and all other matters generally considered essential to
good firemanship and safety of life and property from fire;
   (E)   Assist the proper authorities in suppressing the crime of arson by
investigating or causing to be investigated the cause, origin and circumstances
of all fires;
   (F)   In accordance with the Uniform Fire Code and Uniform Fire Code
Standards provided in §§
35.20 through
35.30, inspect buildings and premises and serve written notice upon the owner
or occupant to abate, within a specified time, any and all fire hazards that
may be found. Any person served with such written notice shall comply and
notify the Fire Chief of his or her compliance within a reasonable time;
   (G)   Designate members of the Fire Department as inspectors;
   (H)   Recommend to the Town Manager the employment of qualified independent
inspectors with a specific technical expertise;
   (I)   Keep complete records of all fires, inspections, apparatus and
equipment, personnel and other information about the work of the Department
open to Council inspection and furnish to the Council such information upon
request;
   (J)   Make a complete annual report, in writing, to the Council at such time
as may be specified by the Council. Such report shall include the information
specified in division (I) above, together with comparative data for previous
years and recommendations for improving the effectiveness of the Department;
   (K)   Enforce or cause to be enforced all ordinances, laws and regulations
of the town and state, insofar as they pertain to fire and safety; and
   (L)   Demote, dismiss or expel any officer or member of the Department for
neglect or refusal to perform Departmental duties, subject to the right of any
members so demoted, dismissed or expelled to appeal to the Council.
(1990 Code, § 4-3-4)
§ 35.24  APPOINTMENT AND DISMISSAL OF FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   Firefighters shall be appointed by the Fire Chief with the approval of
the Town Manager. Such appointees shall be residents whose business activities
are normally within the confines of the town and who have telephones in their
homes. Firefighters shall be subject to supervision by the Fire Chief or his or
her authorized representative.
   (B)   Volunteer firefighters may be dismissed by the Fire Chief, with the
approval of the Town Manager, or by the Town Manager alone, with or without
cause.
(1990 Code, § 4-3-5)
§ 35.25  ENTRY UPON ADJACENT PROPERTY.
   It is lawful for any firefighter acting under the direction of the Fire
Chief, or another member of the Fire Department in command, to enter upon the
premises adjacent to or in the vicinity of any building or other property that
is on fire for the purpose of extinguishing such fire, and no person shall
hinder, resist or obstruct any firefighter in the discharge of his or her duty
as provided in this subchapter.
(1990 Code, § 4-3-6)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.26  EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall be equipped with such apparatus and other
equipment as may be required from time to time to maintain its efficiency and
properly protect life and property from fire.
   (B)   Recommendations concerning apparatus and equipment needed shall be
made by the Fire Chief, and after approval by the Town Manager, such apparatus
and equipment shall be purchased in accordance with town purchasing procedures.
   (C)   All equipment of the Department shall be safely and conveniently
housed in such place or places as may be designated by the Fire Chief.
   (D)   No person shall use any fire apparatus, or equipment for any private
purpose, nor shall any person willfully take away or conceal any article used
in any way by the Fire Department.
   (E)   No person shall enter any place where the fire apparatus is housed or
handle any apparatus or equipment belonging to the Department unless
accompanied by or having special permission of the Fire Chief or authorized
member of the Fire Department.
   (F)   No fire apparatus and equipment shall be hired out or permitted to
leave the fire station except in response to a call for aid at a fire within
the corporate limits of the town, or in response to a call for aid at a fire in
an area authorized for fire protection service or mutual aid under the
provisions of §
35.27.
(1990 Code, § 4-3-7)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.27  PROVIDING FIRE PROTECTION OUTSIDE THE TOWN.
   (A)   The Council may enter into agreements or contracts to furnish fire
protection outside the town or enter into mutual aid agreements, and the Fire
Department is authorized to render firefighting service pursuant to the terms
of such agreements or contracts.
   (B)   Whenever the Fire Chief, or in his or her absence his or her
authorized representative, shall deem it necessary to protect property within
the corporate limits of the town, the Fire Department is authorized to answer
fire alarms and fight fires outside the corporate limits of the town; provided
that nothing in this division (B) shall be construed to require the Fire
Department to do so.
(1990 Code, § 4-3-8)
§ 35.28  ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   In accordance with the provisions of state law, all motor equipment of
the Fire Department shall have right-of-way over all other traffic when
responding to an alarm.
   (B)   No unauthorized vehicle shall follow within 500 feet of any apparatus
belonging to the Fire Department.
   (C)   No unauthorized person shall park any vehicle or otherwise cause any
obstruction to be placed within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire
station or other place where fire apparatus is stored and on the side of a
street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet of the entrance
or within 15 feet of any fire hydrant.
   (D)   No person shall drive any vehicle over a fire hose, except upon
specific orders from the Fire Chief or other member of the Fire Department
where the hose is used.
(1990 Code, § 4-3-9)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.29  FIRE ALARMS.
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly to turn in or cause to be turned in
a false fire alarm.
(1990 Code, § 4-3-10)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.30  ORDERS OF FIRE CHIEF.
   It is unlawful for any firefighter or citizen to refuse to obey an order
issued by the Fire Chief pursuant to his or her authority.
(1990 Code, § 4-3-11)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 36:  TAX CODE
Section
   
36.01   Adoption
§ 36.01  ADOPTION.
   The model tax code, and all amending ordinances, are hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated into this code as if set out at length herein,
including the amendments set forth in that certain document entitled "The 2012-
2014 Amendments to the Tax Code of the Town of Clifton.
(Ord. 02-93, passed 4-8-1993; Ord. 02-94, passed 1-12-1995; Ord. 02-96, passed
12-12-1996; Ord. 04-98, passed 6-11-1998; Ord. 01-99, passed 12-9-1999; Ord.
02-2001, passed 11-8-2001; Ord. 01-2003, passed 5-8-2003; Ord. 02-2005, passed
11-10-2005; Ord. 01-2006, passed 4-13-2006; Ord. 02-2006, passed 7-13-2006;
Ord. 03-2006, passed 1-11-2007; Ord. 01-2008, passed 5-8-2008; Ord. 04-2009,
passed 11-12-2009; Ord. 02-2011, passed 9-8-2011; Ord. 01-2020, passed 5-14-
2020)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
      
51.   WASTEWATER
CHAPTER 50:  GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Refuse collection system established
   
50.03   Town as collection agency
   
50.04   Service charges
   
50.05   Disposal of garbage
   
50.06   Containers
   
50.07   Authority of Public Works Director; authority of town to make
inspections; access to premises
   
50.08   Prohibited acts
   
50.09   Special refuse and hazardous waste
   
50.10   Enforcement
§ 50.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COLLECTOR.  The town or its authorized representatives, agents or
contractors.
   COMMERCIAL.  Any person who generates more than 200 gallons of garbage or
rubbish per collection event.
   CONTAINERS.  The receptacles provided to owners by the town or its
authorized representative, agent or contractor for disposal of refuse.
   DIRECTOR.  Director of Public Works of the Town of Clifton.
   GARBAGE.  All putrescible waste, except sewage, body and medical waste,
including waste accumulated of animal, food or vegetable matter, and including
waste that attends preparing, using, cooking, dealing in or storing meat, fish,
fowl, fruit or vegetable matter, and shall include all of the wastes,
accumulations or vegetable matter of residences, restaurants, hotels and places
where food is prepared for human consumption. The term GARBAGE shall not
include recognized industrial byproducts or hazardous waste in any amount.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE.  All wastes that are hazardous by reason of their
pathological, explosive, flammable, radiological or toxic nature. The terms
shall mean any refuse that can cause damage or injury to property or persons,
including HAZARDOUS WASTE as defined by applicable state and federal law and
household products or items such as paint, pesticides, poisons, cleaning
solvents, tanks, automotive batteries, tainted gasoline, used oil and other
automobile fluids considered to be household hazardous waste.
   INSPECTOR.  The authorized employee or employees of the town having the duty
of enforcing this chapter.
   OWNER.  Every owner, operator, tenant, occupant or person in possession,
charge or in control of any building, structure, residence, dwelling, premises,
eating place, shop, place of business, or manufacturing or commercial
establishment where refuse is created or accumulated.
   PERSON.  Any individual, company, business entity, firm, corporation,
partnership, consortium, joint venture, commercial entity or any federal,
state, county or municipal governmental body or entity.
   REFUSE.  Solid garbage and rubbish.
   RESIDENTIAL.  Any person who generates less than 200 gallons of garbage or
rubbish per collection event.
   RUBBISH.  Refuse other than garbage. RUBBISH includes, but is not limited
to, tin cans, bottles, ashes, paper, pasteboard, cardboard, wood, brush,
leaves, weeds and cuttings from trees, lawns, shrubs and gardens, or other
waste produced in normal course of everyday living. RUBBISH may not include
hazardous waste as defined elsewhere in this chapter.
   SERVICE.  A system for refuse collection, transportation and disposal
provided by the town or its authorized representatives, agents or contractors
to an owner for a fee.
   WASTE.  Unwanted solid or liquid materials.
(Ord. 01-2004, passed 4-8-2004; Ord. 02-2006, passed 12-14-2006)
§ 50.02  REFUSE COLLECTION SYSTEM ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   A residential owner may enter into an agreement with the town for
service. Refuse generated by that owner shall be collected, removed,
transported and disposed of by officers or employees of the town, or by
authorized representatives, agents or contractors as otherwise provided in this
chapter. Residential owners shall be billed directly by and pay all fees and
service charges to the town as provided in §
50.04. Commercial owners may be billed directly by and pay all fees and service
charges to the town as provided in §
50.04 or may be billed directly by and pay all fees and service charges charged
in accordance with §
50.04 to the town or to the town’s authorized representative, agent or
contractor. The town shall notify the commercial owner of the service provider
and the related billing and payment procedures used by such service provider
when the commercial owner applies for service in accordance with §
50.04.
   (B)   Every person performing any construction, demolition or similar debris
or material removal work shall be responsible for collecting and disposing of,
at his or her sole cost and expense, all bricks, stone, scrap lumber, building
materials, earth, sand, gravel and all other debris or similar material from
the work in an authorized disposal site.
   (C)   All owners receiving service are responsible for lawfully disposing of
any refuse that will not fit into containers.
(Ord. 01-2004, passed 4-8-2004; Ord. 02-2006, passed 12-14-2006)  Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 50.03  TOWN AS COLLECTION AGENCY.
   (A)   The town may enter into a contract for providing service as set forth
in this chapter. This contract shall be renewed on a yearly basis. It is
unlawful for any person, other than the collector or the owner, to accumulate,
collect, haul, transport or dispose of any refuse or waste from any property
within the town, except as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Any person engaging in the business of accumulating, collecting,
hauling, transporting or disposing of garbage, rubbish or waste, other than by
contract with the town, shall have first obtained a permit issued by the
Director to engage in such business and shall conduct such business in a lawful
manner. A permittee will be considered the agent of the owner for the purposes
of accumulating, collecting, hauling, transporting or disposing of the same.
(Ord. 01-2004, passed 4-8-2004; Ord. 02-2006, passed 12-14-2006)  Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 50.04  SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   Commencement of service. An owner applying for service shall pay an
application processing fee at the following times: prior to the town providing
service to any residential owner; prior to the town or its authorized
representative, agent or contractor providing service to a commercial owner;
and when an owner to whom service has been terminated for delinquent payment
reapplies for service.
   (B)   Fees. The Town Council shall, by resolution, establish the monthly
charge for service and a deposit the application processing fee amount. For
residential owners, such charges may also include the cost of street sweeping,
alley maintenance, labor and equipment. For commercial users, a separate charge
for street sweeping and alley maintenance may also be assessed. Late fees
penalties, delinquent termination fees and delinquent collection charges shall
be set from time to time by the Town Council by resolution.
   (C)   Late fee. All service charges and fees are due and payable when
service is rendered. The account is considered delinquent for non-payment by
the due date. The town shall add a late fee penalty as by the Town Council by
resolution if the town does not receive payment by the due date printed on the
bill. If the payment is not received by the due date, the next monthly billing
will indicate the past due amount and the current due amount.
   (D)   Termination and notice. If the total amount of such bill is not paid
within 60 days of the due date, a notice will be mailed to the owner indicating
the date on which service will be terminated. If the total amount of such bill
is not paid prior to the scheduled termination of service date, service may be
terminated to the premises, and a delinquent termination fee as determined by
the Town Council charged to the owner’s account. The town or the town’s
authorized representative, agent or contractor need give no further notice to
the owner prior to terminating service. All past due fees and charges may then
be deducted from owner’s deposit.
   (E)   Restoring service. The termination fee, the total amount of the bill
due and a commencement of service fee shall be collected by the town or the
town’s authorized representative, agent or contractor before restoring service
after service was previously terminated for non-payment.
   (F)   Insufficient funds. For any residential or commercial owner served by
the town; a charge, the amount of which will be determined by as the Town
Council from time to time by resolution, will be added to the monthly bill of
any owner whose check for payment is returned from the bank for insufficient
funds. For any commercial owner served by the town’s authorized representative,
agent or contractor, a reasonable charge, as determined by the town’s
authorized representative, agent or contractor will be added to the monthly
bill of any commercial owner whose check for payment is returned from the bank
for insufficient funds. Tendering a check which is dishonored for insufficient
funds does not relieve the owner of his or her or its obligation to make timely
payment on the original billing, nor relieve the owner from any late penalty
and/or effect the town or its authorized representative, agent or contractor’s
right to terminate service as provided in this chapter.
   (G)   Temporary discontinuance of service. A residential owner may
temporarily discontinue service upon notice to the town if the premises
receiving the service will be vacant for greater than 60 days and if the
residential owner’s account is paid in full at the time of discontinuance.
Service will automatically resume upon the date requested by the residential
owner, unless such resumption is technically impracticable or impossible, in
which case such resumption shall occur as soon as possible.
(Ord. 01-2004, passed 4-8-2004; Ord. 02-2006, passed 12-14-2006)  Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 50.05  DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any owner to fail to provide for removal and proper
disposal of his or her or its refuse, as provided for by this chapter.
   (B)   No person shall place or cause to be placed the following in any
container: a dead animal, any human or animal excrement, septic tank contents
or similar liquid wastes, hazardous waste or things designated as “special
waste” by the State Department of Environmental Quality pursuant to A.R.S. §§
49-851(5), 49-852 or pursuant to any applicable rule-making.
(Ord. 01-2004, passed 4-8-2004; Ord. 02-2006, passed 12-14-2006)  Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 50.06  CONTAINERS.
   (A)   All residential and commercial owners shall keep all refuse in a
closed receptacle. All such receptacles shall be kept on private property.
   (B)   The town will provide each residential owner with one 100-gallon
refuse container. All owners shall ensure that: the maximum weight of each
container when full shall not exceed 50 pounds; all containers shall be kept on
private property; and containers shall not be placed at the edge of the public
right-of-way before sundown on the day before the scheduled day of pickup and
shall be returned to private property by 7:00 p.m. on the day of pickup.
   (C)   The town will provide any residential owner a second 100-gallon refuse
container for no additional cost to the residential owner. The residential
owner will thereafter pay a monthly service charge for refuse collection for
each container.
      (1)   The town or the town’s authorized representative, agent or
contractor shall provide all commercial owners with refuse containers
appropriate for the volume and/or size of the refuse generated by such owner.
Monthly service charges for commercial owners shall be charged based on the
number and size of the refuse containers provided and the volume of refuse
collected by the town or its authorized representative, agent or contractor.
      (2)   No person shall use or remove refuse from any containers or from
any vessel or receptacle containing the refuse of persons not receiving service
from the town or its authorized representative agent or contractor in
accordance with this chapter or uncover or remove refuse, without the
permission or consent of the owner thereof, unless such person is actually
engaged in the work of accumulating, collecting, hauling, transporting or
disposing of the refuse and is permitted to do so in accordance with §
50.03.
(Ord. 01-2004, passed 4-8-2004; Ord. 02-2006, passed 12-14-2006; Ord. 01-2014,
passed 5-8-2014)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.07  AUTHORITY OF PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR; AUTHORITY OF TOWN TO MAKE
INSPECTIONS; ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   (A)   The Director, or his or her authorized representative, or any other
person specifically appointed for fee such purpose by the Town Manager is
authorized and directed to implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter
against any person, including any residential owner or commercial owner, in
order to protect the health, safety and welfare of town residents.
   (B)   The Director is hereby granted authority to deny or decline to collect
refuse when, in the Director’s discretion, such collection is impracticable
based upon the amount, type or kind of refuse, or collection is deemed to be
outside the scope of ordinary and reasonable refuse pickup collection service.
   (C)   No person, residential owner or commercial owner shall deny the
inspection officers the right of access to any premises for the purpose of
inspecting all places and containers where refuse is accumulated, stored,
handled or collected. The town shall also have the right to enter any premises
for the purpose of repossessing or otherwise retrieving any containers provided
to any owner in accordance with §
50.06 or to enforce any other term, section, division or provision of this
chapter of the code.
   (D)   Collection equipment and persons collecting the refuse shall, at all
times, have unrestricted and unobstructed access to containers. Drives,
driveways and container enclosures shall be maintained as not to cause harm or
be damaging to collector or equipment. Such access shall include trimming of
vegetation so as not to obscure the vision of the collector or damage the
truck. Areas services from and on dirt and unpaved roads or driveways shall be
served only if weather permits and shall be served at the discretion of the
collector.
(Ord. 01-2004, passed 4-8-2004; Ord. 02-2006, passed 12-14-2006)  Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 50.08  PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to allow the accumulation of refuse
upon their property or to allow the collection or disposal thereof in any
manner inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, association or corporation
to collect, transport, haul or convey any refuse over the streets or alleys of
the town in any manner inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, occupant, person, firm,
association or corporation to dispose of any refuse within the town, except at
locations designated by the town.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump, deposit or place, or
cause to be dumped, deposited or placed, any refuse of any character in any
container not owned, maintained or otherwise provided for the particular use of
the person.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to engage in the business of collecting,
transporting, hauling or conveying any refuse generated within the town for
compensation, except as follows:
      (1)   Under valid contract with the town to provide collection services;
      (2)   Under valid permit issued by the town for the purpose of hauling
construction waste from construction projects; or
      (3)   Under valid permit issued pursuant to §
50.03.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or to suffer to
accumulate in or about any yard, lot, place or premises, or upon any street,
alley or sidewalk adjacent to the lot, yard, place or premises, owned or
occupied by the person, any garbage or refuse so as to cause such yard, lot,
premises or the street, alley or sidewalk adjacent thereto, to be or remain in
the condition as to cause or create a nuisance or offensive odor or atmosphere,
or thereby to be or become or cause or create a public nuisance.
   (G)   No person shall burn, incinerate, bury, dump, collect, remove or in
any other manner dispose of rubbish or garbage within the limits of the town.
No person shall throw, discard or deposit any rubbish, garbage or refuse in or
upon any street, alley, sidewalk or vacant ground, or in or upon any canal,
irrigation ditch, drainage ditch or other watercourse.
   (H)   In addition to any fine which may be imposed for violation of any
provision of this section, such person shall be liable for all costs which may
be assessed pursuant to this chapter for the removal of rubbish, trash, filth
or debris.
(Ord. 01-2004, passed 4-8-2004)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.09  SPECIAL REFUSE AND HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   (A)   Town reserves right to deny service. The town reserves the right to
deny refuse collection service for refuse which the Director determines to be
hazardous and to require the owner to properly dispose of it by other means. No
person shall deposit or cause to be deposited in any refuse container which is
serviced by the town, anything which will be dangerous or hazardous to the
town’s collection equipment or a threat to the health, safety and welfare of
the town employees or general public.
   (B)   Placement in properly marked container. Hazardous wastes shall be
placed in a proper container and plainly and properly marked. The Director
shall be notified and shall instruct the owner as to the proper disposition of
such waste.
   (C)   Explosives. Explosives such as arms ammunition, war souvenirs or
explosive items or power of any kind and highly inflammable materials shall not
be placed in any refuse container. Residents shall dispose of these items by
calling the Town Department of Public Safety for special direction or pickups.
   (D)   Acids, caustics and rapid oxidizers. Acids, caustics and rapid
oxidizers, including chemicals used in swimming pools, shall not be disposed of
in refuse containers. Residents shall dispose of such chemicals by calling the
Director for containment instructions and special pickup.
(Ord. 01-2004, passed 4-8-2004)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.10  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   In addition to the violation and penalty provisions set forth in §
10.99, the Town Manager may compel the removal of refuse by the procedures
outlined in §§
93.05 through
93.08, which procedures are hereby incorporated and made a part hereof by this
reference.
   (B)   In addition to any penalty which may be imposed for violations of any
provision of this chapter, such person shall be liable for all costs which may
be assessed for the removal of refuse.
(Ord. 01-2004, passed 4-8-2004)  (Ord. 03-2012, passed 11-15-2012; Ord. 01-
2017, passed 4-13-2017)
CHAPTER 51:  WASTEWATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Plumbing may be condemned
   
51.03   Regulations part of contract
Service
   
51.15   Application for service
   
51.16   Connection fees
   
51.17   Determining the total annual cost of operation and maintenance
   
51.18   Determining each user’s contribution percentage
   
51.19   Determining each user’s service charge
   
51.20   Payment of the user’s service charge and penalties
   
51.21   Review of each user’s service charge
   
51.22   Accounts
   
51.23   Hazardous waste
   
51.24   Enforcement
   
51.25   Re-establishment of service
Department and Consumer Responsibilities
   
51.40   Public Works Department responsibilities and liabilities
   
51.41   Consumer responsibility
   
51.42   Interference with Public Works Department or Building Official; digging
up streets without permit
   
51.43   Unsanitary disposal of excrement prohibited
   
51.44   Private sewage systems
   
51.45   Tampering with equipment prohibited
   
51.46   Permit required
   
51.47   Application
   
51.48   Inspection and approval by town
   
51.49   Records to be kept of building connections
Use of Public Sewers
   
51.60   Prohibited substances
   
51.61   Interceptors required
   
51.62   Authority for review and approval of certain discharges
   
51.63   Preliminary treatment
   
51.64   Manholes
   
51.65   Tests and analyses
   
51.66   Special agreements with industrial concerns
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   B.O.D. or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND.  The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING SEWER.  The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal.
   NORMAL WASTEWATER.  Wastewater that contains not more than 300 mg/l B.O.D.,
or 300 mg/l suspended solids, is within a pH range of 6.5 to 8.0 or does not
contain excessive amounts of other materials as may reasonably be determined by
the town.
   pH.  The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   POLLUTANT.  Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage
sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive
materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt and
industrial, municipal and agricultural wastes.
   POTW.  Publicly owned treatment works and connecting sewer collection system
which are owned and/or operated, in whole or in part, by the town and which
provide the town with wastewater collection and disposal services.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY.  The Town of Clifton, Arizona.
   PUBLIC SEWER.  A sewer main, branch or trunk controlled and maintained by
the public authority.
   REPLACEMENT.  Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed.
   SANITARY SEWER.  A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface
and groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE.  A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE WORKS.  All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and
disposing of sewage, and, as used in this chapter, shall have the same meaning
as SEWER SYSTEM or SEWERAGE WORKS.
   SEWER.  A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SUPERINTENDENT.  The Superintendent of the utilities of the town or his or
her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS.  Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, wastewater, sewage or other liquids and which are largely
removable by laboratory filtering.
   USER.  Any person, lot, parcel of land, building, premises, municipal
corporation or other political subdivision that discharges, causes or permits
the discharge of wastewater into the sewage system, and, for purposes of this
chapter, shall also mean CONSUMER.
   WASTEWATER.  Any liquid or water-carried pollutant which is introduced into
the POTW from any source.
   WATERCOURSE.  A channel in which a flow of water occurs either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. 03-92, passed 9-28-1992)
§ 51.02  PLUMBING MAY BE CONDEMNED.
   Whenever any plumbing, drainage or steam-fitting work done prior to the
effective date of this chapter or hereinafter installed shall, in the opinion
of the Building Inspector, be a nuisance or a detriment to public health, or
the occupants of any building, the Inspector shall give notice to the owner,
agent or occupants of such building to appear before the Mayor and Council at a
time to be stated in said notice. At that time, it will be necessary to show
cause why said plumbing, steam fitting or drainage should not be changed to
conform to the provisions of this chapter or so as to abate such nuisance. If
the Mayor and Council shall so direct, such plumbing or drainage shall be
changed in accordance with such direction.
(Ord. 03-92, passed 9-28-1992)
§ 51.03  REGULATIONS PART OF CONTRACT.
   (A)   All regulations contained in this chapter shall be considered a part
of the contract of every resident of the town taking sewer service from the
town, and such resident taking sewer service shall be considered as having
expressly consented to be bound thereby.
   (B)   Consumers outside the town limits shall, upon application for sewer
service, be required to sign a statement agreeing to the regulations set forth
in this chapter.
(Ord. 03-92, passed 9-28-1992)
SERVICE
§ 51.15  APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   No sewer connection connecting the town sanitary sewer system to any
consumer shall be made or used by any person, except upon written application
furnished to the town by the owner, or his or her authorized agent, of the
premises to which sanitary sewer service is to be furnished.
   (B)   An initial sewer billing fee shall be required to initiate a new
service or to re-connect service to the same premises. A sewer tap charge shall
also be required prior to furnishing sewer service or to re-connect service to
any premises. The initial sewer billing and tap fees are non-refundable.
   (C)   The owner of the premises to which sanitary sewer service is provided
shall be responsible for all fees and charges unless the owner otherwise
presents written notice to the town that sewer service is being discontinued or
that the owner’s authorized agent is responsible for all fees and charges.
(Ord. 03-92, passed 9-28-1992)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.16  CONNECTION FEES.
   The initial wastewater connection fee, disconnection fee and reconnection
fee shall be as determined from time to time by the Council by resolution.
(Ord. 03-92, passed 9-28-1992; Ord. 01-2013, passed 7-11-2013)
§ 51.17  DETERMINING THE TOTAL ANNUAL COST OF OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The town shall determine the total annual cost of operation and
maintenance of the wastewater system. The total annual cost of operation and
maintenance shall include but need not be limited to labor, repairs, equipment,
replacement, necessary modifications, power, sampling, laboratory tests and a
reasonable contingency fund.
   (B)   The town will establish an “operation and maintenance account” and
“equipment replacement account” in accordance with §
51.22. Fiscal year end balances in each account will be carried over to the
same account in subsequent years.
   (C)   The total annual cost of the wastewater system will be the sum of the
above-mentioned operation and maintenance cost and debt retirement, if any.
(Ord. 03-92, passed 9-28-1992)
§ 51.18  DETERMINING EACH USER’S CONTRIBUTION PERCENTAGE.
   (A)   Due to the nature of the town’s existing residential and commercial
users, the B.O.D., suspended solids and other pollutant concentrations
discharged by all the users are approximately equal. Therefore, the user
charges developed by this section are done so on a volume basis.
   (B)   The town shall reasonably estimate the average daily volume of
wastewater which each user discharges to the wastewater system. This average
volume shall then be divided by the total average daily volume of wastewater
discharged to the wastewater system to determine each user’s volume
contribution percentage.
   (C)   The volume contribution percentage will be calculated by using
multipliers for the various types of users. Residential users will be
considered to be the class of user with a multiplier of 1.0. Commercial users
will be assigned multipliers according to the ratio of their estimated
wastewater volume contribution to the estimated volume contribution of an
average residential user. In the case of the following commercial
establishments, multipliers are provided as approximate ratios of commercial
volume to average residential volume.
Commercial Establishment Multiplier
Commercial Establishment      Multiplier
Apartment building            1.0/apartment
Car wash                      1.75/2 bays
Grocery store                 1.0
Laundromat                    2.0/10 washers
Motel or hotel                2.5/10 units
Other                         **
Restaurant, café or tavern   1.0
Service station               1.0
Service station with car wash 2.5
School                        5.0/100 students
Small, dry business*          1.0/20 employees
*A small, dry business is defined as being a business with 20 employees or
less and whose wastewater discharge is limited to sanitary facilities for
employees only.
**Rate shall be as reasonably determined by the town based on this subchapter.
The multipliers are used to calculate each user’s contribution percentage by
dividing the sum of the multipliers into each user’s multiplier. This will
yield the estimated percentage of volume contributed by each user.
 
   (D)   Industrial users, for the purposes of this subchapter, are defined as
follows.
      (1)   Any non-governmental, nonresidential user of a publicly owned
treatment works which discharges more than the equivalent of 25,000 gallons per
day (gpd) of sanitary wastes and which is identified in the Standard Industrial
Classification Manual, 1972, Office of Management and Budget, as amended and
supplemented under one of the following divisions:
         (a)   Division A, Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing;
         (b)   Division B, Mining;
         (c)   Division D, Manufacturing;
         (d)   Division E, Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and
Sanitary Services; and
         (e)   Division I, Services.
      (2)   A user in the divisions listed may be classified commercial if it
is determined that it will introduce primarily segregated domestic wastes or
wastes from sanitary conveniences. Future establishment of any industry which
will introduce other than the above-mentioned types of wastes into the town’s
system shall necessitate revision of this subchapter.
(Ord. 03-92, passed 9-28-1992)
§ 51.19  DETERMINING EACH USER’S SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   Each user’s volume contribution percentage, as determined in §
51.18, shall be multiplied by the total operation and maintenance cost, as
determined in §
51.17, to determine each user’s share of the debt retirement, each user’s
volume contribution percentage shall be multiplied by the then-existing average
annual debt service if any.
   (B)   The town may assess a surcharge on any establishments which fall below
the 25,000 gpd industrial level, but discharge wastewater concentrations
greater than concentrations from an average residential user. Future operation
of such an establishment or of any industry in the town shall necessitate
revision of this subchapter.
(Ord. 03-92, passed 9-28-1992)
§ 51.20  PAYMENT OF THE USER’S SERVICE CHARGE AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Payment.
      (1)   All rates and service charges are due and payable when rendered.
The account is considered delinquent for non-payment by the due date. The town
shall submit a monthly statement to the user for the user’s wastewater sendee
charge.
      (2)   The town shall add a late fee penalty as determined by the Town
Council by resolution if the town does not receive the payment by the due date
printed on the bill. If payment is not received by the due date, the next
monthly billing will indicate the past due amount and the current amount due.
The total amount shown on the next month’s billing is due and payable within 20
days.
   (B)   Payment in advance. Any residential user or class of user with a 1.0
multiplier as set forth in §
51.18 may pay one year’s charges in advance by paying for 11 months of service
charges at one time. Such a user’s account shall not be subject to, and the
town shall not impose, a late fee penalty or other delinquent charges.
   (C)   Payment with insufficient funds. A charge as the town council
determines from time to time by resolution will be added to any user’s next
monthly bill if a check for payment is returned from the bank for insufficient
funds. Tendering a check covered by insufficient funds does not relieve the
user of his or her obligation to make timely payment on the original billing,
nor relieve the user from any late fee penalty as provided in this chapter.
   (D)   Temporary discontinuance of service and charges. A user may request
that the town discontinue charges to his or her account if the premises
receiving the service will be vacant for a continuous period of greater than 90
days and if the user’s account is paid in full at the time of the request. To
receive the temporary discontinuance of charges, the user must notify the town
of the term of the vacancy and provide a copy of written confirmation from the
premises’ water provider that water service will be turned off to the same
premises for the same period of time as requested by the user. Charges to the
user’s account will automatically resume upon the date stated to the town by
the user.
(Ord. 03-92, passed 9-28-1992; Ord. 02-2004, passed 4-8-2004; Ord. 01-2017,
passed 4-13-2017)
§ 51.21  REVIEW OF EACH USER’S SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   (1)   The town shall review and revise the total annual cost of
operation and maintenance as well as each user’s contribution percentages on an
annual basics to assure equity of the service charge system established in this
subchapter.
      (2)   The user charges will be reviewed to accomplish the following:
         (a)   Maintain the proportionate distribution of operation and
maintenance costs among users, and user classes as required in this subchapter;
         (b)   Generate sufficient revenue to pay the total operation and
maintenance costs for the wastewater system; and
         (c)   Apply excess revenue collected from a class of users to the cost
of operation and maintenance attributable to that class for the next year and
adjust the rate accordingly.
   (B)   The town shall notify each user annually, in conjunction with a
regular bill, of the user charge rate and that portion of the user charges or
ad valorem taxes which are attributable to wastewater treatment services.
   (C)   If a major user, such as an industry as defined above, changes the
user’s contribution percentages by discharging into the town’s wastewater
system, the user can present at a regularly scheduled meeting of the Council
factual information concerning his or her discharges to the system. The town
shall then determine any necessary changes in contribution percentages. The
town shall notify the users of its findings as soon as possible. The town shall
provide, on an annual basis, a breakdown of sewer revenues and costs, and
information as to how the individual user charges were computed.
   (D)   Monies transferred from other revenue sources to meet temporary
shortages in the operation and maintenance account will be repaid following
appropriate adjustments in the user charges identified for the operation and
maintenance account.
(Ord. 03-92, passed 9-28-1992)
§ 51.22  ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   A separate, non-lapsing account, the equipment replacement account,
shall be maintained by the town for that portion of the user charges collected
for equipment replacement. Eight hundred dollars shall be set aside each year
for this purpose. Fiscal year-end balances in this account will be carried over
to the same account in the subsequent fiscal year.
   (B)   A separate, non-lapsing account, the “operation and maintenance
account”, shall be maintained by the town for the remaining portion of the user
charges collected.
(Ord. 03-92, passed 9-28-1992)
§ 51.23  HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   The town shall assess a surcharge to any discharges which exhibit
characteristics of hazardous wastes pursuant to 40 C.F.R. part 261. The Town
Utilities Superintendent shall determine the surcharge rate according to the
additional operation and maintenance costs attributable to the hazardous waste.
(Ord. 03-92, passed 9-28-1992)
§ 51.24  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Collections. Any account that carries a late fee charge for greater
than 20 days from the billing date may be assigned to a bona fide collection
agency and assessed a delinquent collection charge, all as designated and
determined by the Town Manager.
   (B)   Termination of service.
      (1)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills.  The town's form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
         (a)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set
forth on the bill; and
         (b)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second
bill will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid
within ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued
for nonpayment; and
         (c)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town
official in charge of utility billing.  This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer's service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer's complaint.
      (2)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained;
only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered.  In the
absence of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure
provided herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no
event until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
      (3)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on
charge in an amount set by resolution of the Town Council and amended from time
to time.
   (C)   Civil action. The town reserves the right to enforce the collection of
any unpaid and delinquent accounts by civil action.
   (D)   Liens.
      (1)   The town may file a lien on the user’s property for the nonpayment
of charges due on the user’s account for services provided to the property if
the payment of the charges is delinquent for more than 90 days.
      (2)   Before filing the lien, the town shall provide written notice to
the owner of the property. The notice shall be given at least 30 days before
filing the lien and shall include an opportunity for a hearing with the Town
Manager. The notice shall be either personally served or mailed to the property
owner at the last known address by certified mail, or to the address to which
the tax bill for the property was last mailed. If the owner does not reside on
the property, the notice shall be sent to the last known address.
      (3)   The unpaid user fees, from the date of recording in the office of
the County Recorder, are a lien on the property until the fees are paid. The
lien is subject and inferior to the lien for general taxes and to all prior
recorded mortgages and encumbrances of record. A sale of the property to
satisfy a lien obtained under this section shall be made on judgment of
foreclosure and order of sale. The town may bring an action to enforce the lien
in the County Superior Court at any time after the recording, but failure to
enforce the lien by this action does not affect its validity. The recorded
unpaid user fees are prima facie evidence of the truth of all matters recited
in the recording and of the regularity of all proceedings before the recording.
      (4)   Unpaid user fees pursuant to this subchapter accrue interest at the
rate prescribed by A.R.S. § 44-1201.
      (5)   A prior assessment of unpaid user fees for the purposes provided in
this subchapter does not bar a subsequent assessment for these purposes and any
number of liens on the same lot or tract of land may be enforced in the same
action.
      (6)   The lien provisions of this section do not apply to residential
property occupied by a lessee where the lessee is responsible for payment of
the user fees. The town shall determine the status of leased residential
property prior to filing the lien.
(Ord. 02-2004, passed 4-8-2004; Ord. 01-2013, passed 7-11-2013; Ord. 05-2017,
passed 8-10-2017)
§ 51.25  RE-ESTABLISHMENT OF SERVICE.
   (A)   A wastewater service account which has been terminated may not be
reestablished and reconnected to the town’s wastewater system except upon
payment of all outstanding amounts owed to the town related to wastewater
service, including all past due fees, service charges and additional deposits
required to establish wastewater service, disconnection and reconnection fees
set forth in this chapter, and any other incidental costs or expenses
occasioned by the service termination.
   (B)   The Town Manager may establish procedures by which a delinquent bill
may be brought current within a reasonable amount of time, but not more than
six months. Failure to comply with the terms and conditions so established
shall be grounds for immediate termination of wastewater service with or
without notice.
   (C)   The Town Manager, or his or her designee, is authorized to provide a
waiver of any fee if it is determined that the customer has a wastewater bill
history without delinquency for the prior year; provided however, that the
outstanding wastewater bill is brought current.
(Ord. 01-2013, passed 7-11-2013)
DEPARTMENT AND CONSUMER RESPONSIBILITIES
§ 51.40  PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT RESPONSIBILITIES AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   The Public Works Department shall not be responsible for the
installation, maintenance or inspection of the consumer’s service line, piping
and apparatus or for any defects therein.
   (B)   The Public Works Department shall have the right to refuse service,
unless the consumer’s lines or piping are installed in such manner as to
prevent cross connections or backflow.
   (C)   Under normal conditions, the consumer shall be notified of any
anticipated interruption of service.
   (D)   The Public Works Department shall not be responsible for the
negligence of third persons or forces beyond the control of the Public Works
Department resulting in any interruption of service or damage to the property
of the consumer.
   (E)   The Public Works Department may refuse service to any prospective
consumer when the capacity of the sewer system will not permit additional loads
being placed thereon.
(Ord. 03-92, passed 9-28-1992)
§ 51.41  CONSUMER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Building or house sewer connections on the consumer’s premises shall
be so arranged as to provide service to one lot. If additional service is
required, it will be considered as a separate and individual account.
   (B)   The consumer’s house or building service line, sewer connection and
apparatus shall be installed and maintained by the consumer, at the consumer’s
expense, in a safe and efficient manner and in accordance with the Public Works
Department’s rules and regulations and in full compliance with the regulations
of the State Department of Health Services, Department of Environmental Quality
or other state or local authority with jurisdiction.
   (C)   The consumer shall safeguard the town’s property placed on the
consumer’s premises and shall permit access to it only by the authorized
representatives of the Public Works Department.
   (D)   In the event that any loss or damage to the property of the town or
any accident or injury to persons or property is caused by or results from the
negligence or wrongful act of the consumer, his or her agents or employees, the
cost of necessary repairs or replacements shall be paid by the consumer to the
Public Works Department and any liability otherwise resulting shall be assumed
by the consumer. The amount of such loss or damage or the cost of repairs may
be added to the consumer’s bill, and, if not paid, service may be discontinued
by the Public Works Department.
   (E)   The Public Works Department may discontinue sewer service for the
following additional reasons:
      (1)   To prevent fraud or abuse; and/or
      (2)   Failure of consumer to comply with this chapter.
   (F)   When service to a consumer shall require the laying of any town sewer
lines or the installation of any other town property on, under, across or over
the consumer’s property, the consumer will grant to the town an easement,
right-of-way or license for such installation.
(Ord. 03-92, passed 9-28-1992)
§ 51.42  INTERFERENCE WITH PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT OR BUILDING OFFICIAL;
DIGGING UP STREETS WITHOUT PERMIT.
   It is unlawful for any person:
   (A)   To interfere in any way with the officers of the Public Works
Department or the Building Official in the discharge of any of their duties,
either in the tapping of any sewer pipe, main or lateral belonging to the town
or in the laying or connecting of such pipe, main or lateral;
   (B)   To dig up or cause to be dug up any street or alley in the town for
the purpose of connection with the sewer system of the town without first
obtaining a permit from the Public Works Department; and
   (C)   Who, having a permit, to dig up any portion of any street or alley of
the town for the purpose of connecting with the sewer system of the town to
fail or neglect to place the street or alley in its original condition under
the supervision of the Public Works Department and as required by the town or
to fail or neglect to comply with the terms and conditions of any such permit.
(Ord. 03-92, passed 9-28-1992)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.43  UNSANITARY DISPOSAL OF EXCREMENT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall deposit or store any human excreta other than in a
water closet, an approved type privy or by other methods or devices
satisfactory to and approved by the Department of Environmental Quality. No
system or method for the collection, storage, transportation and disposal of
human excreta shall be installed, maintained or operated except as approved by
the Town Public Works Department, Department of Environmental Quality or other
authority with jurisdiction.
   (B)   The owner of each device, method or system used for the storage,
collection, transportation and disposal of human excreta shall be responsible
for the proper construction, maintenance and operation of the facilities.
(Ord. 03-92, passed 9-28-1992)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.44  PRIVATE SEWAGE SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Compliance with chapter. Except as provided in this subchapter, it is
unlawful to construct or maintain within the town any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the disposal of
sewage.
   (B)   When permitted; sanitation.
      (1)   Where a pubic sanitary sewer is not available within the town or in
any area under the jurisdiction of the town, the building sewer shall be
connected to a private sewage disposal system, which complies with the
regulations of the State Department of Health Services, the Department of
Environmental Quality or other authority with jurisdiction.
      (2)   Such private sewage disposal system shall be constructed,
maintained and operated at all times in a sanitary manner.
   (C)   Discontinuance. After a public sewer becomes available within 150 feet
of any property served by a private sewage disposal system, a direct connection
shall be made to the public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage facilities
shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (D)   The Town Manager, on a case by case basis, may approve the pumping or
other disposal of sewage from cesspools, septic tanks or other private sewage
systems, if he or she determines that private assistance is not reasonably
available and the condition is such that it constitutes an emergency situation
involving public health and safety.
      (1)   If the Town Manager in his or her discretion makes the
determination set forth above, and town employees render such service, then the
town shall be paid a fee for said service based on prevailing market rates and
the cost of the town in rendering such service.
      (2)   This division (D) does not relieve any person of his or her duty to
maintain such private sewage systems in a legal manner, nor does it authorize
the existence of illegal private sewage systems.
(Ord. 03-92, passed 9-28-1992)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.45  TAMPERING WITH EQUIPMENT PROHIBITED.
   No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the municipal public sewer.
(Ord. 03-92, passed 9-28-1992)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.46  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Public Works Department.
(Ord. 03-92, passed 9-28-1992)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.47  APPLICATION.
   Upon issuance of a required permit to any person, each and every permit
issued shall be presented by the person to the Public Works Department and
application made for the building connection.
(Ord. 03-92, passed 9-28-1992)
§ 51.48  INSPECTION AND APPROVAL BY TOWN.
   No building sewer will be connected to the building connection until it has
been inspected and approved by the Public Works Department or Building
Official. Fees for such inspections shall be determined from time to time by
the Council.
(Ord. 03-92, passed 9-28-1992)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.49  RECORDS TO BE KEPT OF BUILDING CONNECTIONS.
   The Public Works Department shall keep a record of all building connections
made, the purpose for which they are to be used, together with the name of the
owner of the property, his or her agent or representative.
(Ord. 03-92, passed 9-28-1992)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 51.60  PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
swimming pool water, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary
sewer.
   (B)   Except as provided in this chapter, no person shall discharge or cause
to be discharged any of the following into the public sewer:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F;
      (2)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 50 parts per million
by weight of fat, oil or grease;
      (3)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (5)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass,
rages, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure, grits such as brick,
cement, onyx, carbide or any other solid or viscous substance capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the proper
operation of the sewer works;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than five and one half or
higher than nine or having any other corrosive property capable of causing
damage or hazard to structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works;
      (7)   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic, radioactive or poisonous
substance in sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage
treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals or create any
hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character
and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such
materials at the sewage treatment plant; or
      (9)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance.
   (C)   Table A lists the maximum allowable values for certain materials in,
or characteristics of, wastewater entering the town’s public sewer.
      (1)   The town reserves the right to establish standards for substances
not contained in this list. In setting additional standards, the town will
generally follow the standards of the Water Pollution Control Federation.
      (2)   In defining and interpreting the values in Table A, reference shall
be made to 40 C.F.R. part 136 and amendments thereto.
Table A
Material or Characteristic Maximum Allowable Value
Table A
Material or Characteristic Maximum Allowable Value
Arsenic                    0.1 mg/l
Boron                      1.0 mg/l
Barium                     10.0 mg/l
Chromium, total            10.0 mg/l
Copper                     10.0 mg/l
Cyanides                   2.0 mg/l
Cadmium                    2.0 mg/l
Iron                       25.0 mg/l
Lead                       0.1 mg/l
Manganese                  0.5 mg/l
Mercury                    0.05 mg/l
Nickel                     10.0 mg/l
Phenols                    0.5 mg/l
Selenium                   0.1 mg/l
Silver                     0.5 mg/l
Zinc                       10.0 mg/l
 
      (3)   The above limitations are intended to apply generally to all
industrial users within the town’s public sewer. If and when state or federal
regulatory agency regulations require a specific pretreatment concentration for
a specific industry, whichever is the more stringent concentration level
between these restrictions and such regulations shall apply.
(Ord. 03-92, passed 9-28-1992)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.61  INTERCEPTORS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Public Works Department, they are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts or any
flammable wastes, sand and other harmful ingredients, except that such
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units.
   (B)   Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious
material capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature.
They shall be of substantial construction, water-tight and equipped with easily
removable covers which, when bolted in place, shall be gas-tight and water-
tight.
   (C)   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times.
(Ord. 03-92, passed 9-28-1992)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.62  AUTHORITY FOR REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF CERTAIN DISCHARGES.
   The introduction into the public sewers of any waters or wastes having any
of the following characteristics shall be subject to the review and approval of
the Public Works Department:
   (A)   A five-day biochemical oxygen demand (B.O.D.) greater than 300 parts
per million by weight;
   (B)   Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of suspended
solids;
   (C)   Containing any quantity of substance having the characteristics
described in §
51.60; and
   (D)   Having an average daily flow of greater than 2% of the average daily
sewage flow of the town.
(Ord. 03-92, passed 9-28-1992)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.63  PRELIMINARY TREATMENT.
   (A)   Required. Where necessary in the opinion of the Public Works
Department, the owner shall provide, at his or her expense, such preliminary
treatment as may be necessary to:
      (1)   Reduce the B.O.D. to 300 parts per million and the suspended solids
to 350 parts per million by weight;
      (2)   Reduce objectionable characteristics or constituents to within the
maximum limits provided for in §
51.60; and
      (3)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes.
   (B)   Approval. Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information
relating to proposed pre-liminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for
approval of the Public Works Department and the State Department of Health
Services, Department of Environmental Quality or other authority with
jurisdiction. No construction of such facilities shall be commended until such
approvals are obtained in writing.
   (C)   Maintenance of facilities. Where preliminary treatment facilities are
provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(Ord. 03-92, passed 9-28-1992)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.64  MANHOLES.
   (A)   When required by the Public Works Department, the owner of any
property served by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation and
sampling of wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessible and safely
located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Public Works Department.
   (B)   The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense and
shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Ord. 03-92, passed 9-28-1992)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.65  TESTS AND ANALYSES.
   All tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and wastes, to which
reference is made in §§
51.60,
51.62 and
51.63, shall be determined in accordance with Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Sewage, and shall be determined at the control manhole
provided for in this subchapter or upon suitable samples taken at such control
manhole.
(Ord. 03-92, passed 9-28-1992)
§ 51.66  SPECIAL AGREEMENTS WITH INDUSTRIAL CONCERNS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the town for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the
industrial concern.
(Ord. 03-92, passed 9-28-1992)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   ADMINISTRATION
      
71.   TRAFFIC CONTROL
      
72.   PARKING
      
73.   COMPRESSION BRAKES
      
74.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70:  ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
70.01   Duty of Police Department
   
70.02   Records of traffic violations
   
70.03   Accident investigation
   
70.04   Detention of persons to serve traffic complaint
   
70.05   Traffic accident studies
   
70.06   Traffic accident reports
 
   
70.99   Civil traffic violations
§ 70.01  DUTY OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department, under the direction of the
Police Chief, to provide for the enforcement of the street traffic regulations
of the town and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in
the town, to make arrests for traffic violations, to investigate accidents and
to assist in developing ways and means to improve traffic conditions and to
carry out all duties specially imposed upon the Police Chief by this chapter.
(1990 Code, § 12-1-1)
§ 70.02  RECORDS OF TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Police Chief shall keep a record of all violations of the traffic
laws of the town or of the state vehicle laws of which any person has been
charged, together with a record of the final disposition of all such alleged
offenses. Such record shall accumulate during at least a five-year period and
from that time on the record shall be maintained complete for at least the most
recent five-year period.
   (B)   All forms for records of violations and notices shall be serially
numbered.
(1990 Code, § 12-1-2)
§ 70.03  ACCIDENT INVESTIGATION.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department, under the direction of the
Police Chief, to investigate traffic accidents and to arrest and assist in the
prosecution of those persons charged with violations of law causing or
contributing to such accidents.
(1990 Code, § 12-1-3)
§ 70.04  DETENTION OF PERSONS TO SERVE TRAFFIC COMPLAINT.
   Any police officer or duly authorized agent of the town may stop and detain
a person as is reasonably necessary to investigate an actual or suspected
violation of this chapter and to serve a copy of the traffic complaint for any
alleged civil or criminal violations of this chapter.
(1990 Code, § 12-1-4)
§ 70.05  TRAFFIC ACCIDENT STUDIES.
   Whenever the accidents at any particular location become numerous, the
Police Chief shall conduct studies of such accidents and determine remedial
measures.
(1990 Code, § 12-1-5)
§ 70.06  TRAFFIC ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   The Police Chief shall maintain a suitable system of filing traffic accident
reports. All such accident reports made by drivers shall be for the
confidential use of the town, and no such report shall be admissible in any
civil or criminal proceeding other than upon request of any person making such
report or upon request of the court having jurisdiction to prove compliance
with the laws requiring the making of any such report.
(1990 Code, § 12-1-6)
§ 70.99  CIVIL TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS
   Any violation of or failure to do or perform any act required by this title
constitutes a civil traffic violation. Civil traffic violations are subject to
the provisions of A.R.S. Title 28, Chapter 5, Articles 3 and 4 (A.R.S. §§ 28-
1551 et seq., and §§ 28-1591 et seq.).
(Ord. 01-2009, passed 5-14-2009; Ord. 01-2017, passed 4-13-2017)
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC CONTROL
Section
   
71.01   Directing traffic
   
71.02   Obedience to traffic regulations
   
71.03   Use of coasters, roller skates and similar devices restricted
   
71.04   Traffic control devices
   
71.05   Authority to designate crosswalks, establish safety zones and mark
traffic lanes
   
71.06   Authority to place and obedience to turning markers
   
71.07   Authority to place and obedience to restricted turn signs
   
71.08   Limitations on turning around
   
71.09   One-way streets and alleys
   
71.10   Regulation of traffic at intersections
   
71.11   Drivers to obey signs
   
71.12   Processions
   
71.13   Unattended motor vehicles
   
71.14   Distracted driving
§ 71.01  DIRECTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   The Police Chief is hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice,
hand or signal.
   (B)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the Police Chief in directing traffic thereat or in the
immediate vicinity.
(1990 Code, § 12-2-1)
§ 71.02  OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to do any act prohibited by this chapter
or fail to perform any act required by this chapter or to willfully fail or
refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of a Police Department
official or any Fire Department official.
   (B)   (1)   No provision of this chapter for which a sign is specifically
required to be posted shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the
time and place of the alleged violation, an official sign is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
      (2)   When a particular section does not state that a sign is required,
that section shall be effective even though no sign is erected or in place.
(1990 Code, § 12-2-2)  (Ord. 02-2009, passed 5-14-2009  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03  USE OF COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES AND SIMILAR DEVICES RESTRICTED.
   No person upon roller skates or riding any coaster, toy vehicle or similar
device may enter upon any roadway except while crossing a street on a
crosswalk, and when crossing, such person shall be granted all of the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians.
(1990 Code, § 12-2-3)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04  TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The Police Chief, with the approval of the Council, shall place and
maintain traffic control devices, signs and signals when and as required under
the traffic regulations of the town to make effective the provisions of said
regulations, and may place and maintain such additional traffic control devices
as he or she may deem necessary to regulate traffic under the traffic laws of
the town or under state law or to guide or warn traffic.
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the traffic
regulations of the town unless otherwise directed by the Police Chief, subject
to the exceptions granted in this chapter or by state law.
(1990 Code, § 12-2-4)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.05  AUTHORITY TO DESIGNATE CROSSWALKS, ESTABLISH SAFETY ZONES AND MARK
TRAFFIC LANES.
   The Police Chief is hereby authorized, on approval by the Council:
   (A)   To designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon
the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where in his or her
opinion there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and at
such other places as he or she may deem necessary;
   (B)   To establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such
places as he or she may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians; and
   (C)   To mark lanes for traffic on street pavement at such places as he or
she may deem advisable, consistent with the traffic laws of the town.
(1990 Code, § 12-2-5)
§ 71.06  AUTHORITY TO PLACE AND OBEDIENCE TO TURNING MARKERS.
   (A)   The Police Chief is authorized to place markers, buttons or signs
within or adjacent to intersections indicating the course to be traveled by
vehicles turning at such intersections, and such course to be traveled as so
indicated may conform to or be other than as prescribed by law.
   (B)   When authorized markers, buttons or other indications are placed
within an intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning
thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of such
indications.
(1990 Code, § 12-2-6)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.07  AUTHORITY TO PLACE AND OBEDIENCE TO RESTRICTED TURN SIGNS.
   (A)   The Police Chief, on approval by the Council, is hereby authorized to
determine those intersections at which drivers of vehicles shall not make a
right, left or U-turn and shall place proper signs at such intersections. The
making of such turns may be prohibited between certain hours of any day and
permitted at other hours, in which event the same shall be plainly indicated on
the signs, or such signs may be removed when such turns are permitted.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right, left
or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of
any such sign.
(1990 Code, § 12-2-7)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.08  LIMITATIONS ON TURNING AROUND.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction upon any street in a business district and shall not so
turn a vehicle upon any other street unless such movement can be made in safety
and without interfering with other traffic.
(1990 Code, § 12-2-8)
§ 71.09  ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   The Council may designate any streets or alleys which are to be
limited to one-way traffic.
   (B)   Whenever the Council designates any one-way street or alley, the
Police Chief shall place and maintain signs giving notice thereof, and no such
regulation shall be effective unless such signs are in place. Signs indicating
the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every intersection
where movement of traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(1990 Code, § 12-2-9)
§ 71.10  REGULATION OF TRAFFIC AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The Council shall designate through streets, intersections where stops
are required, and intersections where vehicles shall yield the right-of-way.
   (B)   Whenever the Council shall designate any through street or
intersection where vehicles are to stop or yield the right-of-way, the Police
Chief shall erect and maintain the appropriate signs at every location where a
vehicle must stop or yield the right-of-way.
(1990 Code, § 12-2-10)
§ 71.11  DRIVERS TO OBEY SIGNS.
   Whenever traffic signs are erected as provided in this chapter, every driver
of a vehicle shall obey such signs unless otherwise directed to proceed by the
Police Chief or a traffic control signal. No driver shall drive upon or through
any private property such as an oil station, vacant lot or similar property to
avoid obedience to any regulation included in this chapter.
(1990 Code, § 12-2-11)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.12  PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   No procession or parade, except funeral processions, shall be held
without first securing a permit from the Police Chief, and all such requests
for permits shall state the time, place of formation, proposed line of march,
destination and such other information as the Police Chief may require therein.
   (B)   A funeral procession composed of a procession of vehicles shall be
identified by such methods as may be determined and designated by the Police
Chief.
   (C)   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the conspicuously
designated vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized procession while
such vehicles are in motion. This provision shall not apply at intersections
where traffic is controlled by traffic control signals or the Police Chief.
   (D)   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to
the right-hand edge of the roadway as practical and shall follow the vehicle
ahead as close as is practical and safe.
(1990 Code, § 12-2-12)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.13  UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to
stand unattended on public property, or on a used or new car lot, without first
stopping the engine, locking the ignition, removing the ignition key from the
vehicle, effectively setting the brake thereon, and, when standing upon a
grade, turning the front wheels to the curb or side of the highway or street.
   (B)   If a police officer finds a motor vehicle standing unattended on any
public property, or on any used or new car lot in violation of this section,
such police officer is authorized to remove the key from the vehicle and
deliver the key to the Police Department.
   (C)   In a prosecution charging a violation of this section, the person in
whose name the subject vehicle is registered shall be prima facie responsible
for the violation and subject to any and all penalties imposed by the court. If
more than one person is listed as the registered owner, those persons shall be
jointly and severally prima facie responsible for the violation and subject to
penalties therefor.
(Ord. 02-2009, passed 5-14-2009)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.14  DISTRACTED DRIVING.
   (A)   Prohibition. No person shall, except as otherwise provided in this
section, use a hand-held mobile telephone or portable electronic device while
operating a motor vehicle upon a street or highway in the town, unless that
device is specifically designed or configured to allow hands-free listening and
talking and is actually used hands-free while operating the motor vehicle.
   (B)   Definitions.
      HAND-HELD MOBILE TELEPHONE or PORTABLE ELECTRONIC DEVICE.  A wireless
communication device that is designed to engage in calls, receive and transmit
text messages, image messages, and data, and which requires being held in one
hand.
      HANDS-FREE.  The use of a mobile telephone or portable electronic device
without the use of either hand by employing an internal feature of, or an
attachment to, the device.
      OPERATING.  Being in actual physical control of a motor vehicle on a
highway or street and includes being temporarily stopped because of a traffic
light, stop sign, traffic, or otherwise temporarily immobilized, but excludes
operating a motor vehicle when the vehicle has pulled over to the side of the
road or off an active roadway and has stopped at a location in which it can
safely remain stationary.
   (C)   Exemptions. This section shall not apply to:
      (1)   The use of a hand-held mobile telephone or portable electronic
device for the sole purpose of communicating with any of the following
regarding an immediate emergency situation:
         (a)   An emergency response operator;
         (b)   An ambulance company;
         (c)   Fire department and rescue service personnel;
         (d)   Law enforcement personnel;
         (e)   A hospital; or
         (f)   A physician's office or health clinic.
      (2)   The activation or deactivation of a hands-free use, so long as the
hand-held mobile telephone or portable electronic device is securely configured
and attached to the vehicle or integrated into the vehicle.
      (3)   Emergency service or law enforcement personnel using a hand-held
mobile telephone or portable electronic device while acting in the course and
scope of his or her duties.
   (D)   Penalty. A violation of this section is a civil traffic violation
under §
70.99 of this title.
      (1)   A person who violates this section and is not involved in a motor
vehicle collision is subject to a civil penalty of $50 for the first violation,
$100 for the second violation, and $200 for the third violation.
      (3)   A person who violates this section and is involved in a motor
vehicle collision is subject to a civil penalty of a minimum amount of $250.
(Ord. 02-2017, passed 4-13-2017)
CHAPTER 72:  PARKING
Section
   
72.01   Method of parking
   
72.02   Blocking traffic
   
72.03   Parking adjacent to schools
   
72.04   Authority to erect signs restricting parking
   
72.05   Parking vehicles on sidewalks
   
72.06   Parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
72.07   Restricted parking areas for the physically disabled
   
72.08   Restricted parking color codes
   
72.09   General provisions
   
72.10   Vehicle overhaul; repair
   
72.11   Parking prohibited
   
72.12   Failure to comply with regulations; liability noncompliance
   
72.13   Authority of Chief of Police
§ 72.01  METHOD OF PARKING.
   Except as otherwise posted, every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway
where there are adjacent curbs shall be so stopped or parked with the passenger
side wheels of such vehicle parallel to and within 18 inches of the passenger
side curb.
(1990 Code, § 12-3-1)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02  BLOCKING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park any motor vehicle, or other
vehicle, upon a street in such a manner as to leave available less than ten
feet of the width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic,
except that a person may stop temporarily, in the actual loading or unloading
of passengers, or as required by traffic signs or signals of a police officer.
   (B)   No person shall park a motor vehicle, or other vehicle, within an
alley or entrance to a private driveway except for the loading or unloading of
materials, and not then unless such loading or unloading can be accomplished
without blocking the alley to the free movement of vehicular traffic.
   (C)   No person shall permit a vehicle to be parked upon a street or
designated public parking area in such a manner as to constitute a nuisance or
to obstruct or impede the flow of traffic or emergency vehicle access.
   (D)   No vehicle shall be parked within 15 feet of an intersection of two or
more streets.
(1990 Code, § 12-3-2)  (Ord. 02-2009, passed 5-14-2009)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.03  PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS.
   When signs are erected indicating no parking on that side of the street
adjacent to any school property, no person shall park a vehicle in any such
designated place for one hour before school opens until one hour after school
closes on any school day.
(1990 Code, § 12-3-3)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.04  AUTHORITY TO ERECT SIGNS RESTRICTING PARKING.
   The Police Chief, upon approval of the Council, may erect signs requiring
parking at an angle to the curb, allowing parking on the left-hand curb on one-
way streets, notifying drivers that parking is prohibited and restricting
parking in any way that may be necessary. When such signs have been erected, no
person shall stop or stand a vehicle in disobedience to such parking
restrictions.
(1990 Code, § 12-3-4)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.05  PARKING VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall park any vehicle, whether in usable condition or not, nor
shall an owner permit his or her vehicle to be parked upon any sidewalk in the
town.
(1990 Code, § 12-3-5)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.06  PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal
purpose of:
      (1)   Displaying such vehicle for sale; or
      (2)   Repairing such vehicle, except repairs necessitated by an
emergency.
   (B)   No person shall park a motor vehicle upon public right-of-way for the
purpose of storing such vehicle or for the purpose of salvaging parts of such
vehicle.
(1990 Code, § 12-3-6)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.07  RESTRICTED PARKING AREAS FOR THE PHYSICALLY DISABLED.
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle in a parking space set aside and
identified for use only by persons with physical disabilities, unless the
vehicle has displayed thereon a distinguishing insignia or numbered plates
bearing the international wheelchair symbol as provided in A.R.S. § 28-881.
   (B)   Division (A) above shall apply only to those parking spaces identified
with standard signs or other markers, as approved by the Police Department.
(1990 Code, § 12-3-7)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.08  RESTRICTED PARKING COLOR CODES.
   (A)   All areas and parking places which are marked in the color red shall
be designated no parking zones and no person shall park a vehicle in such a
designated area.
   (B)   All areas and parking places which are marked in the color yellow
shall be designated loading zones, and no person shall park a vehicle in such a
designated area, except for the express purpose of loading or unloading a
vehicle and for no greater time than is necessary to load or unload such
vehicle.
(Ord. 02-2009, passed 5-14-2009)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.09  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   Vehicles may be parked on all streets and in public parking spaces located
within the corporate limits of the town, except where parking is restricted,
regulated, limited or prohibited by this code or as set forth in A.R.S. § 28-
873.
(Ord. 02-2009, passed 5-14-2009)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.10  VEHICLE OVERHAUL; REPAIR.
   (A)   No person shall use any public parking lot, street, highway or alley
for the purpose of servicing, overhauling, repairing any motor vehicle, except
to make actual emergency repairs necessary to move the vehicle from the parking
lot, street, highway or alley.
   (B)   In addition to a traffic citation, a violation of this section may, at
the discretion of the Police Department, result in the vehicle being towed away
by a towing service employed by the town to a location designated by the Police
Department, where it shall be stored until the owner of said vehicle retrieves
it. If the owner of the vehicle so requests, in lieu of towing to a town-
designated storage facility, the owner of the vehicle may designate a repair
facility to which the vehicle may be towed. The owner of the vehicle shall be
responsible for all costs of towing and storage.
(Ord. 02-2009, passed 5-14-2009)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.11  PARKING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle at any time that is prohibited by official
signs, where there are red curb markings or by order of a police officer.
(Ord. 02-2009, passed 5-14-2009)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.12  FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH REGULATIONS; LIABILITY NONCOMPLIANCE.
   Failure to comply with any town ordinance or provision of the town code
which regulates the time, place or method of parking is a civil infraction,
punishable as a civil traffic violation.
(Ord. 02-2009, passed 5-14-2009; Ord. 01-2017, passed 4-13-2017)  Penalty, see
§
70.99
§ 72.13  AUTHORITY OF CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, with approval by the Town Council, is authorized
to change parking signs, color codes, marks, stripes or other parking
indicators to regulate the parking of vehicles on the streets and in public
parking areas within the town.
   (B)   The Chief of Police, with approval by the Town Council, is authorized
to post signs or other parking indicators on any areas, curbs, walls or other
places reasonably designed to provide adequate public notice of restrictions
and regulations related to parking of vehicles on the streets and public
parking areas located within the town.
(Ord. 02-2009, passed 5-14-2009)  Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73:  COMPRESSION BRAKES
Section
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Use of unmuffled compression brakes prohibited
§ 73.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BRAKE.  Any device used for slowing, halting or stopping the movement of any
vehicle.
   ENGINE COMPRESSION BRAKE.  Any motor vehicle brake that is operated by the
compression of the engine of the motor vehicle or any unit or part thereof. An
ENGINE COMPRESSION BRAKE is also referred to as a JAKE BRAKE.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  Includes automobiles, tractors, trucks, trailers and
transportation equipment of all kinds and sizes, or any combinations of the
foregoing.
   MUFFLED.  Fitted with a device that absorbs noise and, therefore, reduces
the sound made by the engine compression brake.
(Res. 2004-07, passed 12-9-2004)
§ 73.02  USE OF UNMUFFLED COMPRESSION BRAKES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall use motor vehicle brakes which are in any way activated or
operated by the compression of the engine of such motor vehicle or any unit or
part thereof, unless such braking system is equipped with a functional muffler.
Such prohibition shall not apply if an emergency situation exists, and the use
of unmuffled engine compression brakes is necessary for the protection of
persons or property.
(Res. 2004-07, passed 12-9-2004)  Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 74:  RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
74.01   Motorized play vehicles
§ 74.01  MOTORIZED PLAY VEHICLES.
   (A)   In this section, unless the context otherwise requires, MOTORIZED PLAY
VEHICLE means a coaster, scooter, pocket bike, motorized skateboard or any
other alternatively fueled device, or other motorized vehicle that is self-
propelled by a motor or engine, gas or electric, and which is not otherwise
defined in A.R.S. Title 28, as a “motor vehicle”, “motorcycle”, “motor-driven
cycle”, “motorized wheelchair” or “electric personal assistive mobility
device”.
   (B)   It is unlawful to operate a motorized play vehicle on any public
sidewalk, roadway or any other part of a highway or on any bikeway, bicycle
path or trail, equestrian trail or shared-use path.
   (C)   It is unlawful to operate a motorized play vehicle on any private
property of another without the written permission of the property owner, the
person entitled to immediate possession of the property, or the authorized
agent of either.
   (D)   It is unlawful to operate a motorized play vehicle on any private
property in a manner causing excessive, unnecessary or offensive noise which
disturbs the peace and quiet of any neighborhood or which causes discomfort or
annoyance to a reasonable person of normal sensitivity.
   (E)   The parent, guardian or legal custodian of any minor shall not
authorize or knowingly permit such minor to violate any of the provisions of
this section. If a fine is imposed upon a minor who is found to be in violation
of this section, the parents, or legal guardian having custody or control of
the minor shall be jointly and severally liable with the minor for payment of
the fine, whether or not the parents or guardian knew of, or anticipated, a
violation of this section.
   (F)   This section is adopted pursuant to and is governed by the provisions
of A.R.S. Title 28 et seq., as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 01-2005, passed 3-10-2005)  Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE CODE
      
92.   RESERVED
      
93.   NUISANCES AND NUISANCE ABATEMENT
      
94.   TREES AND SHRUBBERY
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Definitions
   
90.002   Enforcement of chapter
   
90.003   Cruelty
   
90.004   Public nuisance
   
90.005   Livestock and poultry; within town limits
   
90.006   Animal waste
   
90.007   Killing of dangerous or vicious animals
   
90.008   Destruction of injured animals
   
90.009   Diseased animals
   
90.010   Restraint
   
90.011   Housing
Impoundment of Animals
   
90.025   Impounding of animals at large
   
90.026   Notice to owners of impoundment
   
90.027   Reclamation by owner
   
90.028   Report of impounded animals
   
90.029   Conditions and duration of impoundment
   
90.030   Confinement of wild animals
   
90.031   Sale of un-reclaimed animals
   
90.032   Impeding Animal Control Officer
   
90.033   Impoundment fees
Rabies Control
   
90.045   Vaccination required
   
90.046   Handling and reporting of biting animals
   
90.047   Town-wide quarantine
   
90.048   Responsibilities of veterinarians
Licenses
   
90.060   License required
   
90.061   Kennels
   
90.062   License fees
   
90.063   Expiration and transferability
   
90.064   Revocation
Records, Reports and Investigations by Animal Control Officer
   
90.075   Records to be kept
   
90.076   Reports by Animal Control Officer
   
90.077   Investigations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL.  Any animal of a species that is susceptible to rabies, except man.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY.  The Animal Control Officer, Chief of Police, Town
Manager or delegate.
   ANIMAL SHELTER.  Any establishment authorized by the town for the
confinement, maintenance, safekeeping and control of animals that come into the
custody of the Animal Control Authority in performance of its duties.
   AT LARGE.  Neither confined by an enclosure nor physically restrained by a
leash.
   COLLAR.  A band, chain, harness or suitable device worn around the neck of a
dog to which a license may be affixed.
   DOG.  A member of the canis familiaris family.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES.  An animal if it has been bitten by or exposed to any
animal known to have been infected with rabies.
   FOWL.  Chicken, cock, hen, duck, goose, peafowl or other generally accepted
domesticated commercial bird.
   IMPOUND.  The act of taking or receiving into custody by the Animal Control
Authority any dog or other animal for the purpose of confinement in an animal
shelter in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   KENNEL.  An enclosed, controlled area, inaccessible to other animals in
which a person keeps, harbors or maintains five or more dogs under controlled
conditions.
   LIVESTOCK.  Horses, mules, asses, cattle, oxen, swine, sheep and goats.
   NEUTERED MALE.  Any dog or male cat which has been operated upon to prevent
conception.
   OWNER. Any person, partnership or corporation owning, keeping, possessing,
harboring or maintaining one or more animals for more than six consecutive
days.  An animal shall be deemed to be “harbored” if it is fed or sheltered for
three consecutive days or more.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal which:
      (1)   Molests passers-by or passing vehicles;
      (2)   Attacks other animals;
      (3)   Trespasses on public property;
      (4)   Is repeatedly at large;
      (5)   Damages private or public property; or
      (6)   Disturbs the peace, comfort or health of any person residing in the
town by excessive or continuous noise.
   RESTRAINT.  An animal is controlled by a leash or lead, at “heel” beside a
competent person and obedient to that person's commands, on or within a vehicle
being driven or parked on the streets or within the property limits of its
owner.
   SPAYED FEMALE.  Any bitch or female cat which has been operated upon to
prevent conception.
   STRAY CAT.  Any cat four months of age or older running at large.
   STRAY DOG.  Any dog three months of age or older running at large or that is
not wearing a valid license tag.
   VACCINATION.  The administration of an anti-rabies vaccine to animals by a
veterinarian.
   VETERINARIAN.  Unless otherwise indicated, means any veterinarian licensed
to practice in this state or any veterinarian employed by the town.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL.  Any animal of the order carnivore that has a propensity to
attack, to cause injury to or to otherwise endanger the safety of human beings
without provocation, or that has been so declared after a hearing before a
justice of the peace or a town magistrate.
§ 90.002  ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the Animal Control
Authority. The Animal Control Authority is hereby given authority to file
complaints in the name of the town for any violation of this chapter.
§ 90.003  CRUELTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Maliciously kill, maim, poison or wound an animal which is the
property of another, or who, having charge or custody of an animal as owner or
otherwise, overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, overworks, torments,
tortures, deprives of necessary sustenance, drink or  shelter, cruelly beats,
mutilates or cruelly kills an animal, or subjects an animal to needless
suffering, or inflicts unnecessary cruelty upon the animal, or in any manner
abuses an animal, or who cruelly drives, rides or otherwise uses the animal
when unfit for labor; or
   (B)   Abandon an animal, or drop or leave an animal on a street, road or
highway, in a public place or on private property with intent to abandon.  An
animal shall be deemed abandoned when the owner fails to claim it from a
boarding facility or veterinarian within ten days of the date a certified
letter is mailed to such person from the boarding facility or veterinarian
requesting that the owner reclaim the animal.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.004  PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   It is unlawful for any person to harbor or keep any animal that is a public
nuisance or poses a serious health or sanitation threat as determined by the
animal control authority or appropriate Health Department Official.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.005  LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY; WITHIN TOWN LIMITS.
   (A)   It is unlawful to keep or harbor livestock or poultry within the
corporate limits of the town, except in a corral or other suitable enclosure.
   (B)   It is unlawful to keep or harbor any horse within the corporate limits
of the town, except in a corral in existence prior to the passage of this
section.
   (C)   It is unlawful to permit livestock and poultry to run at large within
the corporate limits of the town, and such animals running at large in the town
shall be impounded as provided in this chapter.
   (D)   It is unlawful to picket or tie any animal in the streets of the town
for the purpose of grazing and feeding.
   (E)   It is unlawful for any person to herd or drive livestock or any other
animals within the corporate limits of the town.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.006  ANIMAL WASTE.
   The owner of every animal shall be responsible for the removal and sanitary
disposal of any excreta deposited by the animal on public or private property.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.007  KILLING OF DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   The members of the Police Department, the Animal Control Authority
authorized to kill any dangerous animal of any kind when it is necessary for
the immediate protection of any person or property.
   (B)   The Animal Control Authority shall destroy a vicious animal upon an
order of the Town Magistrate. The Town Magistrate may issue an order after
notice to the owner, if any, and a hearing.
§ 90.008  DESTRUCTION OF INJURED ANIMALS.
   Any animal, whether licensed or unlicensed, which apparently is suffering
from serious injuries and is in great pain arid probably would not recover,  or
which is a danger to other animals or to humans, may be destroyed  by the
Animal Control  Authority  in as humane  a manner as possible after reasonable
efforts to notify the owner have failed.
§ 90.009  DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   It is unlawful to allow any domestic animal afflicted with a
contagious or infectious disease to run at large or to be exposed in any public
place whereby the health of humans or beast may be affected.  It is unlawful
for such diseased animal to be shipped or moved from the premises of the owner
thereof, except under the supervision of the Animal Control Authority.
   (B)   It is hereby made the duty of the Animal Control Authority to secure
the disposition of any  diseased animal and the treatment of affected premises
to prevent the communication and spread of the contagion or infection, except
in cases when the State Department of Health Services, the State Livestock
Board or the State Veterinarian are empowered to act.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.010  RESTRAINT.
   (A)   The owner shall keep his or her animal under restraint at all times or
confined within an enclosure on the owner's property secured so that the animal
is confined entirely on the owner's property, or on a leash not to exceed six
feet in length and directly under the owner's control when not on the owner's
property and shall not permit such animal to be at large.
   (B)   The owner shall exercise proper care and control of his or her animal
to prevent them from becoming a public nuisance.
   (C)   Every female dog or cat in heat shall be confined in a building or
secure enclosure in such a manner that such female dog or cat cannot come into
contact with a male animal of the same species, except for planned breeding.
   (D)   The owner shall confine within a building or secure enclosure every
vicious animal and not take such animal out of such building or secure
enclosure unless such animal is securely muzzled or otherwise prevented from
posing a physical threat to humans or other animals.  A sign must be posted in
a conspicuous place at the entrance to the premises advising the public of the
nature of the animal maintained therein.
   (E)   Any dog over the age of three months running at large shall wear a
collar or harness to which is attached a valid license tag.  Dogs that are used
for control of livestock, being used or trained for hunting or dogs, being
exhibited or trained at a kennel club event or engaged in races approved by the
Arizona Racing Commission, and while the dos are being transported to and from
such events, need not wear a collar or harness with a valid license attached
provided that they are properly restrained, licensed and controlled.
   (F)   No person in charge of any dog shall permit such dog in a public park
or upon any public school property unless the dog is physically restrained by a
leash, enclosed in a car, cage or similar enclosure or being exhibited or
trained at a recognized kennel club event, public school or park sponsored
event.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.011  HOUSING.
   (A)   It is unlawful to cause or allow any stable or place where any animal
is to be kept to become unclean or unwholesome.
   (B)   The premises upon which the animals are kept shall be sanitary and
subject to inspection and regulations by the Animal Control Authority or other
public agencies empowered to act.
Penalty, see §
10.99
IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS
§ 90.025  IMPOUNDING OF ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, unlicensed, at large or
nuisance animals shall be impounded by the Animal Control Authority in the
shelter designated as the town animal shelter, and there confined in a humane
manner.  Except as provided in §
90.026, if said animal is not claimed before the expiration of three days, it
shall become the property of the animal control authority and may be disposed
of in a humane manner or sold at the discretion of the said authority.  The
Animal Control Authority may destroy impounded sick or injured dogs or cats if
destruction is necessary to prevent the dog or cat from suffering or to prevent
the spread of disease.
   (B)   When dogs or cats are found running at large and their ownership is
known to the Animal Control Authority, such dogs or cats may be returned to
their owner, but the office will cite the owners of such dogs or cats to appear
in court to answer to charges of violations of this chapter. 
   (C)   No person may remove or attempt to remove an animal which has been
impounded or which is in the possession of the Animal Control Authority except
in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter and the regulations
promulgated thereunder.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.026  NOTICE TO OWNERS OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Immediately upon impounding animals, the Animal Control Authority
shall make every reasonable effort to identify the owners of such animals so
impounded, and inform such owners of the conditions whereby they may regain
custody of such animals.
   (B)   If the owner of any impounded animal shall be known to the Animal
Control Authority and shall reside or have a known place of business in the
town, the Animal Control Authority shall notify the owner, in writing,
personally or by certified mail within 24 hours after such animal has been
impounded.  The notice shall contain a description of the animal and shall
state that, unless reclaimed within 72 hours of the date of the notice, such
animal shall be disposed of in accordance with this chapter.  Copies of the
notice shall be posted at the place of impoundment and at the Town Hall.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.027  RECLAMATION BY OWNER.
   (A)   The owner shall be entitled to reclaim any impounded dog or cat upon
compliance with the license provisions of §§
90.060 through
90.064, the payment of impoundment fees as set forth in this subchapter.
   (B)   Any other animal impounded under the provisions of this chapter may be
reclaimed by the owner upon the payment of impoundment fees set forth in this
subchapter.
   (C)   Any animal impounded under the provisions of this chapter and not
reclaimed by its owner within three days may be humanely destroyed by
veterinarian, Animal Control Office or the Animal Control Authority, sold, or
placed in the custody of some person deemed to be a responsible and suitable
owner.
   (D)   The owner of an animal impounded and not reclaimed shall be
responsible for all fees incurred provided the owner has been notified pursuant
to §
90.026.
   (E)   When in the judgment of a licensed veterinarian and the Animal Control
Authority an animal should be destroyed for humane reasons, such animal may not
be reclaimed.
§ 90.028  REPORT OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   The Animal Control Authority shall, within 24 hours after taking up and
impounding any animal make a report to the Chief of Police and other
appropriate officials as required by law stating the kind of animal and
describing it by color or otherwise or by any marks or brands that may be on
it, and when it was impounded.
§ 90.029  CONDITIONS AND DURATION OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   The Animal Control Officer shall provide for the keeping of all animals
impounded by a safe convenient and comfortable place within or conveniently
near the town limits and shall feed such animals at least once every 24 hours
and treat them in a humane manner during the time they are impounded.
§ 90.030  CONFINEMENT OF WILD ANIMALS.
   (A)   No wild animal may be kept within the town limits, except under such
conditions as shall be fixed by the town or the Animal Control Authority;
provided, however, that wild animals may be kept for exhibition purposes by
circuses, zoos and educational institutions, in accordance with such
regulations as shall be established by the town or the Animal Control
Authority.
   (B)   Notwithstanding §
90.027, any animal, described in division (A) above, found at large shall be
impounded by the Animal Control Officer or the Animal Control Authority and may
be reclaimed by the owner, unless such reclamation is authorized by any court
having jurisdiction.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.031  SALE OF UN-RECLAIMED ANIMALS.
   The Animal Control Officer may, at the time provided in a notice of sale,
sell at public auction animals impounded under the provisions of this chapter,
which have not been reclaimed by the owner.  The animal shall be sold to the
highest cash bidder and the Animal Control Officer shall immediately pay to the
Clerk the proceeds of the sale of any such animal.  In no instance shall the
Animal Control Officer be or become interested, either directly or indirectly,
n the purchase of any animal sold by him or her.
§ 90.032  IMPEDING ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person to in any manner intervene, impede, prevent,
obstruct or intimidate any member of the Animal Control Authority or delegate
in the discharge by his or her duties in taking up or attempting to take up and
impound any and all animals which it shall be his or her duty to impound under
the provisions of this chapter, or who shall rescue or attempt to rescue any
animal so taken up or to release any animal so impounded.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.033  IMPOUNDMENT FEES.
   (A)   Fees.  Each animal impounded may be reclaimed as provided in this
chapter upon payment to the Animal Control Officer of all outstanding
applicable fees, said fees to be set by resolution adopted by the Town Council
and amended from time to time.
   (B)   Reoccurrence fine.  For each animal impounded within 12 months of a
pervious impoundment, the owner shall pay twice the fee set forth in division
(A) above before reclaiming the animal.
((Ord. 03-2017, passed 4-13-2017) 01-2017, passed 4-13-2017)
RABIES CONTROL
§ 90.045  VACCINATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Before a license is issued for any dog or cat the owner or
veterinarian must present an anti-rabies vaccination certificate signed by a
veterinarian stating the owner's name and address, and giving the dog or cat's
description, date of vaccination and type, manufacturer and serial number of
the vaccine and date re-vaccination is due.  No dog or cat shall be licensed
unless it is vaccinated in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter
and the regulation promulgated hereunder.
   (B)   If a dog or cat is impounded and found to be unvaccinated, the Animal
Control Authority is hereby authorized to cause such animal to be vaccinated at
a cost to be borne by the owner.  The vaccination shall be performed by a
veterinarian, who shall issue a certificate of vaccination.
§ 90.046  HANDLING AND REPORTING OF BITING ANIMALS.
   (A)   Every animal which bites a person shall be promptly reported to the
Animal Control Officer or the Animal Control Authority, and the animal shall
thereupon be securely quarantined at the direction of the Animal Control
Authority for a period of ten days, and shall not be released from such
quarantine except by written permission of the Animal Control Authority.  At
the direction of the Animal Control Authority, such quarantine may be on the
premises of the owner, if the animal is properly vaccinated, at the shelter
designated as the town animal shelter or, at the owner's option and expense, in
a veterinary hospital of the owner's choice.  In the case of stray animals or
in the case of animals whose ownership is not known, such quarantine shall be
at the shelter designated as the town animal shelter.  The quarantine period
shall start on the day of the bite incident.
   (B)   Upon demand made by the Animal Control Authority, the owner shall
surrender any animal which has bitten a human, or which is suspected of having
been exposed to rabies, for supervised quarantine which expense shall be borne
by the owner.  The animal may be reclaimed by the owner, if adjudged free of
rabies, upon payment of fees set forth in §
90.033, and upon compliance with licensing provisions as set forth in §§
90.060 through
90.064.
   (C)   When an animal under quarantine has been diagnosed as being rabid or
suspected by a licensed veterinarian of being rabid and dies while under
observation, the Animal Control Officer, Animal Control Authority or licensed
veterinarian shall immediately send the head of such animal to the State
Department of Health Services, laboratory for rabies determination by
pathological examination, and shall notify the proper public Health Officer of
reports of human contacts and the diagnosis made of the suspected animal.
   (D)   No person shall kill or cause to be killed any rabid animal, any
animal suspected of having been exposed to rabies or any animal biting a human,
except as herein provided, nor shall such person remove same from the town
limits without written permission from the Animal Control Authority.
   (E)   The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies shall upon demand be
surrendered to the Animal Control Authority.
   (F)   The Animal Control Authority shall direct the disposition of any
animal found to be infected with rabies.
   (G)   It shall be the duty of every physician or other practitioner to
report to the Animal Control Authority the names and addresses of persons
treated for bites inflicted by animals, together with such other information as
will be helpful in rabies control.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.047  TOWN-WIDE QUARANTINE.
   (A)   When a laboratory report, either preliminary or final, gives a
positive diagnosis of rabies, the local Town or County Health Officer or the
Animal Control Authority ma declare a town-wide quarantine for a period of 90
days and, upon the invoking of such a quarantine, no animal shall be permitted
to be at large except on a leash (the maximum length to be no more than six
feet) and accompanied by a responsible person.
   (B)   During such quarantine:
      (1)   No animal may be taken or shipped from the town without written
permission of the Animal Control Authority;
      (2)   The local town or county Health Officer shall require all dogs,
four months of age and older, to be vaccinated against rabies with a canine
rabies vaccine approved by the Biologies Control Section of the U.S. Department
of Agriculture.  The local Health Officer may extend this requirement beyond
the quarantine period if he or she deems it necessary;
      (3)   All vaccinated dogs shall be restricted (leashing or confinement on
enclosed premises) for 30 days after vaccination.  During the quarantine
period, the local Health Officer shall be empowered to provide for a program of
mass immunization by the establishment of temporary emergency canine rabies
vaccination clinics strategically located throughout the area of jurisdiction;
      (4)   No dog which has been impounded by reason of its being a stray,
which is unclaimed by its owner, is allowed to be adopted from the animal
shelter, except by special authorization of the public health officer or the
Animal Control Authority;
      (5)   Every animal bitten by an animal adjudged to be rabid shall be
destroyed or, at the owner's expense and option, shall be treated for rabies
infection by a licensed veterinarian, or held under ten days quarantine by the
owner in the same manner as other animals are quarantined; and
      (6)   In the event there are additional positive cases of rabies
occurring, such period of quarantine may be extended for an additional six
months.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.048  RESPONSIBILITIES OF VETERINARIANS.
   It shall be the duty of every licensed veterinarian to report to the Animal
Control Authority his or her diagnosis of any animal observed by him or her as
a rabies suspect.
Penalty, see §
10.99
LICENSES
§ 90.060  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep or harbor any dog or cat four months of age
or older within the town limits unless such dog or cat is licensed as provided
in this subchapter.
   (B)   Written application for such license shall be made to the Animal
Control Officer shall state the name and address of the owner, the name, breed,
color, age and sex of the dog or cat.
      (1)   The owner shall present a valid anti-rabies certificate at the time
of application.
      (2)   The license fee shall be paid at the time of making application, a
numbered receipt given to the applicant, and a numbered tag shall be issued to
the owner.
   (C)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to any person
visiting in the town for a period not exceeding 30 days and owning or
possessing a dog or cat currently licensed and bearing a license issued by
another municipality or other licensing authority, except the owner may be
required to present a valid anti-rabies certificate to the Animal Control
Authority.
   (D)   Each dog or cat license under the terms of this subchapter shall
receive, at the time of licensing, a tag on which shall be inscribed the name
of the town, the number of the license, and the year in which it expires.
      (1)   The tag shall be attached to a color or harness which shall be worn
by the dog or cat at all times except as other provided in this subchapter.
      (2)   Whenever a dog or cat tag is lost, a duplicate tag shall be issued
upon application by the owner and payment of a fee as established by resolution
of the Council.
   (E)   Any person who knowingly fails within 15 days after written notice by
the Animal Control Authority to obtain a license for a dog or cat required to
be licensed or who falsifies information on the application, who counterfeits
or attempts to counterfeit an official dog or cat tag, who removes such tag
from any dog or cat for the purpose of willful and malicious mischief, or who
places a dog or cat tag upon a dog or cat unless the tag was issued to that dog
or cat is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (F)   The Animal Control Authority shall impound any dog or cat found
without a current valid license tag.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.061  KENNELS.
   (A)   Every person, group of persons or corporations engage in the
commercial business of buying, selling, breeding, or boarding, and who owns,
harbors, or keeps five or more dogs or cats, four months of age or older, in a
kennel shall make application for a license, and upon issuance of the license
pay an annual license fee as set by resolution by the Town Council and amended
from time to time.  All local, county, and state laws or ordinances concerning
the licensing, vaccinating, excreta removal, sanitation inspection, restraint
and other applicable ordinance will apply to kennels.
   (B)   It shall be a condition of the issuance of any license that the Animal
Control Authority shall be permitted to inspect all animals and the premises
where animals are kept at any time and shall, if permission for such
inspections is refused, revoke the license of the refusing owner.
   (C)   If the applicant has withheld or falsified any information on the
application, the Animal Control Authority shall revoke or refuse to issue a
license.
   (D)   No person who has been convicted of cruelty to animals or who has
violated A.R.S. §§ 13-2910 or 13-2910.01 or any other state, county, or
municipal animal welfare law, except violations of license and leash laws,
shall be issued a license under this section.
   (E)   Any person having been denied a license may not apply for a period of
30 days.  Each re-application shall be accompanied by a fee established by
resolution of the Council.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.062  LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The yearly license fees for dogs and cats shall be as set by
resolution of the Town Council and amended from time to time.
   (B)   A guide dog belonging to a blind person who is a resident of the state
or any bona fide nonprofit organization which is in the business of breeding,
raising, or training dogs that are to be placed for guiding the blind shall,
upon application by the owner or organization to the town, and on presentation
of paper proof, be vaccinated, and licensed pursuant to this subchapter without
payment of a fee.
§ 90.063  EXPIRATION AND TRANSFERABILITY.
   (A)   All dog or cat licenses and kennel licenses shall be issued for one
year beginning with January 1.  Application for licenses may be made three
months after the state of the licensing year without penalty, but when
application is made after three months of licensing year have elapsed, the
application shall be assess a penalty of 50% of the license fee, which amount
shall be added and collected with the regular license fee, except if the dog,
cat or kennel did not become subject to licensing until after the state of the
licensing year, then no penalty shall be assessed.
   (B)   If there is a change in ownership of a dog, cat, or kennel during the
license year, the new owner may have the current license transferred to his or
her name upon the payment of a transfer fee established by resolution of the
Council.
(Ord. 01-2017, passed 4-13-2017)
§ 90.064  REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Animal Control Authority may revoke any license if the person
holding the license refuses or fails to comply with this chapter, the
regulations promulgated by the Animal Control Authority or any law governing
the protection and keeping of animals.
   (B)   Any person whose license is revoked shall, within ten days thereafter,
humanely dispose of all animals owned, kept or harbored by such person, and no
part of the permit or license fee shall be refunded.
RECORDS, REPORTS AND INVESTIGATIONS BY ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER
§ 90.075  RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   (A)   The Animal Control Officer shall keep in a suitable book an account of
all monies received, when and from whom received, and the amount paid to the
Clerk.  Also included shall be the date of payment, a complete description of
all animals impounded showing the time when impounded and by whom redeemed or
when sold and to whom sold, and if destroyed, when and by whom.  The book or
record shall be the property of the town and be open to the inspection of the
public at all reasonable times.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Authority to keep, or cause
to be kept, accurate and detailed records of all bite cases reported to him or
her and his or her investigation of same.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.076  REPORTS BY ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   The Animal Control Authority shall, within two working days after the
collection of any monies whatsoever, pay of the Clerk all money received and
take the Clerk's receipt therefor.  Said money shall be credited to the General
Fund.
§ 90.077  INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of discharging the duties imposed by this chapter and
to enforce its provisions the Animal Control Authority with any police officer
is empowered to enter upon any premises with a search warrant upon which an
animal is kept or harbored and to demand the exhibition by the owner of such
animals, or the license, if required, for such animals.
   (B)   It is further provided that the Animal Control Authority may enter the
premises with a police officer and search warrant where any animal is kept in a
reportedly cruel or inhumane manner, and demand to examine such animal and to
take possession of such animal when, in his or her opinion, it requires humane
treatment.
CHAPTER 91:  FIRE CODE
Section
   
91.01   Town Fire Code
§ 91.01  TOWN FIRE CODE.
   That certain document, entitled International Fire Code, 2009 Edition,
together with all appendices and standards thereto, published by the
International Code Council, Inc., is hereby adopted as the Town Fire Code for
regulating and governing the safeguarding of life and property from fire and
explosion hazards arising from the storage, handling and use of hazardous
substances, materials and devices, and from conditions hazardous to life and
property in the occupancy of buildings and premises, and the same is made part
of this chapter as though set forth in full herein. At least three copies of
said code shall be filed in the office of the Town Clerk and kept available for
use and inspection.
(Ord. 01-2010, passed 4-8-2010)
CHAPTER 92:  RESERVED
CHAPTER 93:  NUISANCES AND NUISANCE ABATEMENT
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Duty to maintain premises; declaration of public nuisance
   
93.03   Authority to inspect
   
93.04   Interference with inspection; false information; failure to provide
evidence of identity
   
93.05   Emergency abatement
   
93.06   Abatement in lieu of or addition to civil or criminal complaint
   
93.07   Abatement procedures
   
93.08   Appeal of abatement
   
93.09   Abatement by town; cost
   
93.10   Assessment; notice of assessment
   
93.11   Appeal of assessment
   
93.12   Hearing on appeal of assessment
   
93.13   Assessment lien; recordation; foreclosure
   
93.14   Annual installments of assessment liens
   
93.15   Subsequent assessments
§ 93.01  DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter shall
have the meanings set forth below, unless the context clearly indicates a
different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.  A vehicle or trailer, other than one falling within the
categories enumerated by A.R.S. § 28-4832 (i.e., horseless carriages, classic
cars, historic vehicles, or street rod vehicles), which is without current
license plates or tags, is inoperable, stripped, unclaimed, junked or
discarded. This shall also mean vehicles, other than those categories listed
above, being repaired when such repairs take 90 days or more. For purposes of
this subchapter, the term ABANDONED VEHICLE may also refer to dismantled and
partially dismantled motor vehicles which, by reason of dismantling, disrepair
or other causes, are incapable of being propelled under their own power, in
addition to the definition herein, except for those categories of motor
vehicles specifically exempted herein.
   BLIGHT, BLIGHTED OR BLIGHTING.  Any unsightly, deteriorated, dilapidated,
withered or decayed condition of a building, structure, fence, landscaping, or
property characterized by neglect, lack of maintenance, damage, or similar
condition.  Examples include, but are not limited to, accumulation of debris,
wood, scrap iron or other metal, boxes, paper, vehicle parts, tires, abandoned
or inoperable equipment or vehicles; discarded appliances; or any items that
may harbor insect or vermin infestation or create a fire hazard; landscaping
that is overgrown, dead or damaged; fences that are broken, rotted, damaged or
leaning.
   BUILDING.  Any real property structure, movable or immovable, permanent or
temporary, vacant or occupied, used (or of a type customarily used) for human
occupancy or business purposes, or where livestock, produce, or personal or
business property is located, stored or used.
   DILAPIDATED BUILDING.  Any building in such disrepair, or damaged to such an
extent, that its strength or stability is substantially compromised rendering
it unsafe or likely to burn or collapse, and the condition of which endangers
the life, health, safety, or property of the public as determined by the town.
   LESSEE.  A person who has the right to possess real property pursuant to a
lease, rental agreement, or similar instrument.
   LITTER.  Any rubbish, trash, weeks, filth or debris which constitute a
hazard to public health and safety and shall include all putrescible and
nonputrescible solid waste including garbage, trash, ashes, street cleanings,
dead animals, abandoned automobiles and solid market and industrial waste; any
deposit, accumulation, pile or heap of brush, grass, debris, weeks, cans,
cloth, paper, wood, rubbish or other unsightly or unsanitary matter of any kind
whatsoever; and any growth of weeds, brush or grass to a height of over six
inches.
   LOT.  A plot or quantity or land, vacant or improved, private or public, as
surveyed, platted or apportioned for sale or any other purpose.
   OWNER.  A person or legal entity who is shown as owner of real property in
the official records of the Greenlee County recorder, and includes a person
holding equitable title under a recorded installments sales contract, contract
for deed or similar instrument.
   PERSON IN CONTROL.  A person who has responsibility for the care and
maintenance of the private property, whether or not the person has possession
or the use and enjoyment of said property.  PERSON IN CONTROL includes, but is
not limited to, the owner, occupant, property manager, or designated agent of
the owner.
   PREMISES.  Any real property and buildings and structures thereon.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE.  A condition that interferes with the public's use and
enjoyment presenting a potential or real hazard or threat to the public health,
safety, or welfare.  Examples include, but are not limited to, dilapidated
buildings, blighted conditions, abandoned vehicles, and accumulations of
litter.
   PUBLIC PLACE.  Streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or public ways, and
public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and buildings.
   STRUCTURES.  Improvements and other facilities that are constructed or
placed on land.
(Ord. 03-2017, passed 4-13-2017)
§ 93.02  PLACEMENT OF LITTER; DUTY TO MAINTAIN PREMISES; DECLARATION OF PUBLIC
NUISANCE.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any public place or
occupied or unoccupied private property within the town, whether owned by such
person or not, except that the owner or person in control of private property
may maintain authorized containers for collection in such manner that litter
will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any
public or private place.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and a public nuisance for any person in control
to maintain any public nuisance on property located in the town.
   (C)   A building shall be considered unsafe if any one of the following
conditions is present:
      (1)   Inadequate means of egress facilities;
      (2)   Constitutes a fire hazard or is otherwise dangerous to human life
or the public welfare;
      (3)   Is vacant for an extended period of time and is not secured to
prevent entry.
   (D)   In addition to and separate from actions for civil or criminal
offenses, violations of this chapter may be abated by injunctive or other
equitable relief, pursuant to state and common law and the procedures set forth
in this chapter.  Imposition of a penalty or civil sanction does not prevent
abatement or other equitable relief.
(Ord. 03-2017, passed 4-13-2017)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.03  AUTHORITY TO INSPECT.
   (A)   Town enforcement agents are hereby authorized to inspect property for
violations of this chapter in the normal course of job duties, in response to a
citizen complaint that an alleged violation of this chapter may exist; or when
the enforcement agent has a reasonable belief that a violation has been or is
being committed.
   (B)   In order to determine compliance with this chapter, private property
may be entered with the consent of the person in control or as authorized by a
court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   This section shall not be construed to require regular inspections of
private premises by the town, nor shall the town have an obligation to abate
any public nuisance, reported or unreported within a specific time period. 
Neither the town nor any of its officers or officials shall be liable in any
manner for injuries or damages which result or are alleged to have resulted
from any delay or failure to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 03-2017, passed 4-13-2017)
§ 93.04  INTERFERENCE WITH INSPECTION; FALSE INFORMATION; FAILURE TO PROVIDE
EVIDENCE OF IDENTITY.
   (A)   Any person who interferes, prevents, or attempts to interfere or
prevent an individual employed or contracted for by the town from investigating
an alleged violation of this chapter, or from correcting or abating a violation
of this chapter is guilty of a class one misdemeanor.
   (B)   Any person who knowingly makes a false or fraudulent statement, or
knowingly misrepresents a fact, or misleads an individual employed or
contracted for by the town when that individual is investigating, correcting or
abating a violation of this chapter is guilty of a class one misdemeanor.
   (C)   Any person who fails or refuses to provide evidence of his identity to
an individual employed or contracted for by the town when that individual is
investigating an alleged violation of this chapter and has reasonable cause to
believe that person has committed a violation of this chapter, is guilty of a
class one misdemeanor.  Evidence of identity under this section shall consist
of a person's full name, residence address and date of birth.
(Ord. 03-2017, passed 4-13-2017)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05  EMERGENCY ABATEMENT.
   (A)   If a situation presents an imminent hazard to life or public safety,
the town may do one or more of the following:
      (1)   Issue a notice to abate the nuisance, directing the person in
control to immediately take such action as is appropriate to correct or abate
the emergency upon notice by the enforcement official to the person in control.
      (2)   Act to correct or abate the emergency, whether or not the town is
able to contact the owner, occupant, or person in control.
   (B)   The person in control may appeal an order to abate to the Town
Council.  Upon notice and request by the owner, occupant or person in control,
a hearing before the Town Council shall be scheduled as soon as practicable. 
Such appeal shall in no case stay the abatement or correction of such
emergency.
   (C)   The town may recover its costs incurred in abating an imminent hazard
under this section in the same manner as provided for in this chapter to the
extent practicable under the circumstances.
(Ord. 03-2017, passed 4-13-2017)
§ 93.06  ABATEMENT IN LIEU OF OR IN ADDITION TO CIVIL OR CRIMINAL COMPLAINT.
   In addition to or in lieu of filing a civil or criminal complaint, the town
may file notice to abate any nuisance as defined in this Code.  Such abatement
shall proceed independently of any civil or criminal violation filed.  The town
enforcement officer, town prosecutor and town attorney are authorized to file
civil or criminal complaints to abate a public nuisance.
(Ord. 03-2017, passed 4-13-2017)
§ 93.07  ABATEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Notice to abate.
      (1)   If, after an inspection, the town finds one or more violations of
this chapter, and the town elects to use the abatement process, the town shall,
in writing, notify the person in control of the property. 
      (2)   The notice to abate shall set forth the following information:
         (a)   The street address, legal description, or location by book, map
and parcel number if street address is unknown, sufficient for identification
of the property on which the alleged violation occurred;
         (b)   A statement that the town has determined that there is a
reasonable belief that a violation of this chapter has occurred on the property
identified in the notice to abate;
         (c)   Notice that the person in control has 30 days from the date of
mailing or personal service of the notice to abate or correct the violation;
         (d)   A statement of the violation(s) in sufficient detail to allow a
reasonable person to identify and correct the violation(s);
         (e)   A statement that all materials removed from the premises must be
disposed of at an approved waste collection facility or by other appropriate
legal means and that a tipping fee receipt or other evidence of legal disposal
is to be submitted to the town prior to a determination of compliance with the
notice to abate;
         (f)   A warning statement that if the violation is not corrected
within 30 days of the date of the Notice, the town may abate the nuisance and
assess the owner, occupant, or person in control the cost of such abatement and
record a lien against the property for payment of the assessment;
         (g)   An estimate of the cost of removal or abatement by the town,
plus 10% for the incidental costs associated with abating the nuisance;
         (h)   Re-inspection date and time.
         (i)   Name, address, telephone number, and email address of the town
enforcement officer who sent the notice to abate;
         (j)   A statement that the person in control may appeal the abatement
order in writing to the Town Council within 15 days from the date of the notice
and that failure to appeal will constitute waiver of all rights to an
administrative hearing and determination of the matter.
         (k)   The 15-calendar day notice set forth in this section shall not
apply to emergency abatements.
      (3)   The Town Manager may extend the time limits set forth in this
section if the person in control demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Town
Manager that complying with the notice of violation or notice to abate is a
hardship and if the person in control agrees in writing to a schedule for
correcting the violation bringing the property into compliance with the
requirements of this title and complies with the schedule.
      (4)   The notice requirements set forth in this subsection do not apply
in an emergency abatement situation.
   (B)   Service of notices.
      (1)   Any notice required to be given for any purpose under this section
shall be accomplished by an enforcement agent of the town delivering the notice
to the person in control of the property, or by mailing the notice to the
person in control by certified mail, return receipt requested.  If the property
owner is not the occupant or person in control, a duplicate notice shall be
mailed to him by certified return receipt requested mail at his last known
address.
      (2)   Notice is deemed effective on the date it is hand-delivered or
deposited in the United States mail.
      (3)   Nothing herein shall preclude the town from giving additional oral
or written notice at its discretion.  If the town does elect to give additional
notice in any instance, it shall not thereby become obligated to give such
additional notice thereafter in the same or other situation.
   (C)   The notice to abate shall run with the land.  The town, at its sole
option, may record a notice to abate with the Greenlee County recorder and
thereby cause compliance by an entity thereafter acquiring such property.  The
non-filing of a notice to abate shall in no way affect the validity of such
notice as to entities so notified. If the notice to abate is recorded and
compliance with the notice to abate is subsequently satisfied, the town shall
record a satisfaction and release of the notice to abate with the County
Recorder.
(Ord. 03-2017, passed 4-13-2017)
§ 93.08  APPEAL OF ABATEMENT.
   Any person receiving a notice to abate may appeal to the Town Council as
follows:
   (A)   Notice of appeal. A written notice of appeal shall be filed with the
Town Clerk within 15 days after the notice to abate was mailed or personally
served.  The date of receipt by the Town Clerk shall be the date of filing.
   (B)   Contents of notice of appeal.  The notice of appeal shall state in
reasonable detail why the appellant should not be required to comply with the
notice to abate.
   (C)   Hearing on appeal. Upon receipt of the notice of appeal, the Town
Council shall place the matter on the agenda for its next available regular
meeting. The town shall appear and present evidence of the existence of the
public nuisance. The person in control may present evidence controverting the
existence of the public nuisance. The hearing shall be informal and without
regard to the rules of procedure or evidence governing court proceedings. The
Town Council shall decide the appeal, and its decision shall be final.
   (D)   Extension for compliance. If the Town Council's decision is adverse to
the appellant, the date for compliance set forth in the notice to abate shall
be extended by the number of days elapsing between the filing of the notice of
appeal and the rendering of the Town Council's decision.
(Ord. 03-2017, passed 4-13-2017)
§ 93.09  ABATEMENT BY TOWN; COST.
   (A)   Abatement time limitation.  If the person in control fails to remove
or otherwise abate the public nuisance within 30 calendar days of mailing or
personal service of the notice to abate (or such extension thereof as may be
granted in writing by the Town Council), the Town Council may, at the expense
of the person in control, remove or abate the public nuisance or cause it to be
removed or abated; provided, however, that if such removal or abatement is not
undertaken within 180 days after the right to do so first accrues to the town,
a new notice of abatement shall be served as provided in §
93.07.
   (B)   Determination of cost of removal. The costs assessed for removal or
abatement shall not exceed the actual costs plus 10% for the incidental costs
associated therewith, including associated legal costs. Before undertaking the
actual removal or abatement, the town shall attempt to obtain at least three
written estimates from qualified contractors (if available locally) and shall
accept the lowest such estimate that is otherwise satisfactory to the town. In
the alternative, the removal or abatement may be performed by Town personnel,
and the cost shall be deemed to be the same as the lowest estimate obtained
from a qualified contractor as determined by the town.
   (C)   Removal from tax rolls. Upon removing or demolishing a dilapidated
building, the town shall give notice to the county assessor to adjust the
valuation of the real property on the property assessment tax roll from the
date of removal.
(Ord. 03-2017, passed 4-13-2017)
§ 93.10  ASSESSMENT; NOTICE OF ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   Assessment. Upon the removal or abatement of public nuisances, as
provided in §
93.06, the actual cost of removal or abatement, together with the actual costs
of any additional inspections and other incidental costs, including any legal
fees, determined as set forth in §
93.09(B), shall be an assessment against the real property on which the public
nuisance was located.
   (B)   Notice of assessment. A written notice of assessment shall be served
in the same manner as the notice to abate. The notice of assessment shall
provide the following information:
      (1)   The street address, legal description, location by book, map, or
tax parcel number of the property;
      (2)   The facts supporting the assessment;
      (3)   An itemized listing of the actual cost of removal or abatement;
      (4)   The actual costs of any additional inspections and other incidental
costs, including legal fees;
      (5)   State that the entire cost is due and payable in full no later than
30 days from the date of issuance of the notice of assessment and that the
assessment will become delinquent as of that date;
      (6)   Be signed by the town official authorized to issue such notices;
      (7)   Contain the following statement in bold face print:
         NOTICE: PURSUANT TO A.R.S. § 9-499, THIS NOTICE OF ASSESSMENT SHALL
CONSTITUTE A LIEN UPON THE PROPERTY DESCRIBED IN THIS NOTICE OF ASSESSMENT IN
FAVOR OF THE TOWN OF CLIFTON. THE TOWN MAY TAKE LEGAL ACTION TO FORECLOSE THE
LIEN AND SELL THE PROPERTY DESCRIBED TO RECOVER THE COSTS STATED IN THIS NOTICE
OF ASSESSMENT.
      (8)   State that the person in control shall have 15 days from the date
of the mailing or personal service of the notice of assessment to appeal the
amount of the assessment imposed by the town.
(Ord. 03-2017, passed 4-13-2017)
§ 93.11  APPEAL OF ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   Appeal of assessment. A party wishing to appeal an assessment shall
file a written notice of appeal with the Town Clerk within 15 days after the
date of the notice of assessment was mailed or personally served.  The appeal
shall clearly specify the grounds for the appeal. The date of receipt of the
notice of appeal by the Town Clerk shall be the date of filing.  No appeals of
violations shall be heard at the hearing on an appeal of an assessment.
   (B)   Grounds for appeal.  The following shall constitute reasonable grounds
for appeal of an assessment:
      (1)   A claim that the true intent of the section or standards described
in the section have been incorrectly interpreted; or
      (2)   A claim that the statement of costs for correcting or abating the
violation is excessive.
   (C)   Report of assessment. If an appeal of the assessment is not timely
filed, the town shall prepare a report of assessment for consideration by the
Town Council.  The report shall list the address, legal description and/or tax
parcel number of the property.  The report of assessment shall set forth the
facts supporting the assessment and an itemized list of the actual cost of
removal or abatement, the actual costs of any additional inspections and other
incidental costs, including legal fees. Upon acceptance of the report by the
Council, it shall be signed by the Mayor.
(Ord. 03-2017, passed 4-13-2017)
§ 93.12  HEARING ON APPEAL OF ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   Hearing on appeal.  Upon receipt of the notice of appeal, the Town
Council shall place the matter on the agenda for its next available regular
meeting.  Written notice of the hearing shall be provided to all appropriate
Town departments and to the appellant.  The appropriate representative of the
town shall appear and present the facts supporting the assessment and an
itemized listing of the actual cost of removal or abatement, the costs of any
additional inspections and other incidental costs, including legal fees. The
appellant may present evidence controverting the imposition of the assessment.
The Town Council shall determine whether the assessment was made in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter and applicable state statutes and whether
the amount of the assessment is sufficient to cover the actual costs of
abatement and related activities. The Town Council shall issue its findings in
writing, upholding or modifying the amount of the assessment, or overturning
the assessment. The decision of the Town Council shall be final.
   (B)   Extension of compliance. If the Town Council's decision is adverse to
the appellant, the date for compliance set forth in the notice of assessment
shall be extended by the number of days elapsing between the filing of the
notice of appeal and the rendering of the Town Council's decision.
(Ord. 03-2017, passed 4-13-2017)
§ 93.13  ASSESSMENT LIEN; RECORDATION; FORECLOSURE.
   (A)   Recordation. If the person in control fails to pay the assessment
within 30 calendar days after receipt of the notice of assessment (or any
extension as may be granted in writing by the Town Council), the assessment
shall be delinquent and may be recorded in the office of the Greenlee County
recorder as a lien. The assessment lien shall include the date, amount of
assessment, legal description, tax parcel number and name of town.
   (B)   Assessment lien. The assessment shall be a lien against the real
property from and after the date of recordation and shall accrue interest at
the statutory judgment rate, pursuant to A.R.S. § 44-1201, until paid. The
assessment lien is prior and superior to all other liens, obligations,
mortgages or other encumbrances, except liens for general taxes.
   (C)   Foreclosure. The Town Council may, but shall not be obligated to,
bring an action to enforce the assessment lien in the Greenlee County Superior
Court through a judgment of foreclosure and order of sale, at any time after
the recordation of the assessment.  Failure to enforce the assessment lien by
such an action shall not affect its validity.  The recorded assessment is prima
facie evidence of the truth of all matters recited therein and of the
regularity of all proceedings before the recordation thereof.
(Ord. 03-2017, passed 4-13-2017)
§ 93.14  ANNUAL INSTALLMENTS OF ASSESSMENT LIENS.
   Assessments that are imposed pursuant to §
93.10 shall run against the property until paid and are due and payable in
equal annual installments as follows:
   (A)   Assessments of less than $500 shall be paid within one year after the
assessment is recorded.
   (B)   Assessments of $500 or more but less than $1,000 shall be paid within
two years after the assessment is recorded.
   (C)   Assessment of $1,000 or more but less than $5,000 shall be paid within
three years after the assessment is recorded.
   (D)   Assessment of $5,000 or more but less than $10,000 shall be paid
within six years after the assessment is recorded.
   (E)   Assessments of $10,000 or more shall be paid within ten years after
the assessment is recorded.
(Ord. 03-2017, passed 4-13-2017)
§ 93.15  SUBSEQUENT ASSESSMENTS.
   A prior assessment shall not constitute a bar to a subsequent assessment or
assessments for violations of this chapter and any number of liens on the same
lot, tract of land or premises and may be recorded and enforced in the same or
separate actions by the town.
(Ord. 03-2017, passed 4-13-2017)
CHAPTER 94:  TREES AND SHRUBBERY
Section
   
94.01   Trees to be trimmed
   
94.02   Hedges and shrubbery
   
94.03   Injury to trees or shrubbery
   
94.04   Trees outside of property line
§ 94.01  TREES TO BE TRIMMED.
   Any owner or occupant of any real property shall trim all trees, on property
owned or occupied by him or her, overhanging any public thoroughfare, so that
the branches thereon will not interfere with pedestrians or public travel.
(1990 Code, § 10-3-1)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.02  HEDGES AND SHRUBBERY.
   Any owner or occupant of any real property shall maintain all hedges and
shrubbery adjacent to public sidewalks, so that no part of said hedges or
shrubbery shall extend over any part of a public sidewalk in the town.
(1990 Code, § 10-3-2)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.03  INJURY TO TREES OR SHRUBBERY.
   It is unlawful for any person, other than the owner or person with lawful
authority, to willfully injure, deface, disfigure or destroy any tree or shrub,
or to injure, destroy, cut or pick any flower or plant, located either on
private ground or on any public place or thoroughfare.
(1990 Code, § 10-3-3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.04  TREES OUTSIDE OF PROPERTY LINE.
   The Council is hereby provided full and complete control over all trees
which are outside the property lines of privately owned real property.
(1990 Code, § 10-3-4)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSING
      
111.   PEDDLERS
      
112.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS
      
113.   WIRELESS FACILITIES IN THE RIGHT-OF-WAY; MICROCELL EQUIPMENT ON STRANDS
IN THE TOWN
      
114.   AUTOMATED KIOSKS
CHAPTER 110:  BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
   
110.01   License required
   
110.02   Issuance of license
   
110.03   Payment
   
110.04   Posting of license
   
110.05   Exhibition of license required
   
110.06   License not transferable
   
110.07   Exemption
   
110.08   Fees
   
110.09   Revocation
   
110.10   Notice of hearing and appeal
§ 110.01  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to carry on any trade, calling,
profession, occupation or business, specified in this chapter, without first
having procured a license from the town to do so and without complying with any
and all regulations of such trade, calling, profession, occupation or business
as specified in this chapter.
   (B)   Every applicant for a license shall submit a written application,
under oath, which shall state:
      (1)   The character of the business;
      (2)   The name, address and phone number of the principal place of
business and any branch office;
      (3)   The name, address and phone number of the principal residence of
the owner;
      (4)   Date business began operation in town; and
      (5)   Number of employees.
(1990 Code, § 8-2-1)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02  ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk, upon the applicant’s compliance
with this chapter and payment of all applicable fees, fines and penalties, to
prepare and issue a license under this chapter for every person,  firm, company
or corporation liable to pay a license fee hereunder, and to state in each
license the amount charged, the period of time covered, the name of the person,
firm or corporation for whom issued, the trade, calling, profession, occupation
or business licensed and the location or place of business where the trade,
calling, profession, occupation or business is to be conducted.
   (B)   In no case shall any mistake of the Clerk, in stating the amount of a
license, prevent or prejudice the collection for the town of what shall be
actually due from anyone carrying on a trade, calling, profession, occupation
or business, subject to license under this chapter.
(1990 Code, § 8-2-2)  (Ord. 03-93, passed 6-10-1993)
§ 110.03  PAYMENT.
   (A)   (1)   All business license fees shall be paid at the office of the
Clerk of the town or in such manner as may be specified by the Clerk. Payment
of license fees shall be made for the fiscal year, July 1 to June 30. Fees
shall be due and payable on July 1 of each year unless specified otherwise.
Notices shall be sent to each place of business or person at least 30 days
before July 1. Unpaid fees shall become delinquent August 1, and the Police
Chief shall be empowered and authorized to collect all delinquent fees,
together with a $10 penalty.
      (2)   Any trade, calling, profession, occupation or business, specified
in this chapter, which shall begin its operation after July 1 of any year,
shall procure a license from the town and shall pay the full annual license fee
to the town prior to beginning any operations.
   (B)   A separate license must be obtained for each branch establishment or
separate place of business in which any trade, calling, profession, occupation
or business is conducted. Each license shall authorize the person obtaining
such license to carry on, pursue or conduct only that trade, calling,
profession, occupation or business described in such license and only at the
location or place of business which is indicated; provided, however, in the
event a person, firm, company or corporation conducts more than one business
activity within the same structure or building, only one license may be
required.
(1990 Code, § 8-2-3)  (Ord. 03-93, passed 6-10-1993; Ord. 01-2017, passed 4-13-
2017)
§ 110.04  POSTING OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Every person, firm, company or corporation having a license under the
provisions of this chapter, and carrying on a trade, calling, profession,
occupation or business at a fixed place of business shall keep such license
posted and exhibited, while in force, in some conspicuous part of the place of
business.
   (B)   Every person having such a license, and not having a fixed place of
business, shall carry such license with him or her at all times while carrying
on that trade, calling, profession, occupation or business for which the same
was granted.
   (C)   Every person, firm, company or corporation having a license under the
provisions of this chapter shall produce and exhibit the same, when applying
for a renewal thereof, and whenever requested to do so by any police officer or
by any other officer authorized to issue, inspect or collect licenses.
(1990 Code, § 8-2-4)
§ 110.05  EXHIBITION OF LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall have and exercise the power to make arrests
and to cause complaints to be filed against all persons violating the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   The Chief of Police or any duly authorized official shall have
the power to enter free of charge at any time any place of business for which a
license is required by this chapter, and to demand the exhibition of such
license for the current term, from any person engaged or employed in the
transaction of any such business.
      (2)   It is unlawful for such person to fail to exhibit such license when
requested to do so.
(1990 Code, § 8-2-5)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.06  LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   No license granted or issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be
in any manner assignable or transferable to any other person, firm, company or
corporation other than is therein mentioned or named without first obtaining
permission from the Council.
(1990 Code, § 8-2-6)
§ 110.07  EXEMPTION.
   (A)   Any person wishing to sell any form of agricultural products produced
by himself or herself shall be exempt from any license tax imposed hereunder
for the privilege of selling such products only.
   (B)   Before receiving the exemption, an affidavit of the facts entitling
the seller to an exemption must be filed with the Clerk.
(1990 Code, § 8-2-7)
§ 110.08  FEES.
   All businesses, occupations, professions, trades or callings listed
hereunder shall pay a license fee as set forth in the following schedule
annually, unless otherwise specified.
Business, Trade or Occupation Amount of Fee per Annum
                                                                                     Amount
Business, Trade or Occupation                                                        of Fee
                                                                                     per
                                                                                     Annum
Advertising agencies                                                                 $20
Any pursuit, trade or business not listed                                            $20
Auction houses                                                                       $20
Auctioneers                                                                          $20
Auto courts                                                                          $20
Auto dealers (new and used)                                                          $20
Auto parts and auto accessories stores                                               $20
Bankrupt sales                                                                       $20
Bakers retail and wholesale                                                          $20
Bars, taverns with all types of                                                      $20
Liquor licenses                                                                      $20
Barbershops                                                                          $20
Beauty shops                                                                         $20
Billiard halls                                                                       $20
Boarding houses, 4 to 15 persons                                                     $20
Bowling alleys                                                                       $20
Cafés and restaurants                                                               $20
Cafés and restaurants with liquor license                                           $20
                                                                                     $20
Carnivals and circuses and traveling shows                                           (per
                                                                                     day)
Cleaners                                                                             $20
Clothing stores                                                                      $20
Collection agencies                                                                  $20
Contractors, builders (all kinds)                                                    $20
Craftsmen, carpenters                                                                $20
Craftsmen, electricians                                                              $20
Craftsmen, plumbers                                                                  $20
Craftsmen, painters                                                                  $20
Dance halls                                                                          $20
Exterminators or pest control                                                        $20
Finance and loan company                                                             $20
Freight carriers                                                                     $20
Furniture stores                                                                     $20
Gasoline stations                                                                    $20
Groceries and meats only                                                             $20
Groceries, meats and sundries                                                        $20
Groceries, wholesale                                                                 $20
Groceries with liquor license (all types)                                            $20
Hotel                                                                                $20
Insurance agencies (all types)                                                       $20
Jewelers                                                                             $20
Junk dealers                                                                         $20
Laundries                                                                            $20
Laundromat                                                                           $20
Liquor sales                                                                         $20
   Bars and establishments
      Drinks sold in individual portions                                       $20
      Package sales only                                                       $20
   Liquor store, number 6 license
      On-sales retailers license to sales all spirituous liquors by individual $20
portions and in the original containers
   Liquor store, number 7 license
      On-sale retailers license to sale wine or beer by individual portions and$20
the original containers
   Liquor store, number 9 license
      Off-sale retailers license to sale                                       $20
      All spirituous liquors                                                   $20
Massage parlors                                                                      $20
Motels                                                                               $20
Nursery (child care) nursing homes                                                   $20
Oil and gas, wholesale and terminal                                                  $20
Pawnbrokers                                                                          $20
Peddlers                                                                             $100
Photographers, studios                                                               $20
Photographers, transient                                                             $20
Pool, billiard halls and card rooms                                                  $20
All professions, including, but not limited to:
   Professions, accountants                                                       $40
   Professions, attorneys                                                         $40
   Professions, chiropractors and chiropodists                                    $40
   Professions, dentists                                                          $40
   Professions, doctors                                                           $40
   Professions, optometrists                                                      $40
   Professions, veterinarians                                                     $40
Publishers and printers                                                              $20
Radio stations                                                                       $20
Real estate agents                                                                   $20
Secondhand stores (all types)                                                        $20
Shoe repair shops                                                                    $20
Sporting goods                                                                       $20
Televisions repair shops                                                             $20
Television stations or outlets (cable)                                               $20
Theater, motion picture                                                              $20
Trailer courts, 1 to 5 places for trailers                                           $20
Trailer courts, over 5 places for trailers                                           $20
Undertakers                                                                          $20
Utilities, water and electric combination*                                           $20
Utilities, gas*                                                                      $20
Utilities, telephone*                                                                $20
Variety or notion store                                                              $20
Video arcade (coin- or token-operated machine establishment)                         $20
*Not otherwise operating pursuant to a valid municipal franchise
 
(1990 Code, § 8-2-8)  (Ord. 03-2006, passed 7-13-2006)
§ 110.09  REVOCATION.
   Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter may be suspended or
revoked by the Town Clerk, or the Town Clerk may refuse to renew a license,
after notice of hearing, for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for license;
   (B)   Any violation of this chapter or the Town Tax Code adopted by
Chapter 36, or any other statute, ordinance regulation or other requirement
affecting the public peace, health or safety of the citizens of the town; or
   (C)   Conducting a trade, business, game or amusement, calling, profession
or occupation in violation of the state statutes.
(1990 Code, § 8-2-9)  (Ord. 01-94, passed 9-8-1994)
§ 110.10  NOTICE OF HEARING AND APPEAL.
   (A)   Notice of the hearing for suspension, refusal to renew or revocation
of license shall be given, in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds
of the complaint and the time and place of hearing. Such notice shall be
mailed, postage prepaid, certified mail to the licensee at the address shown on
the application for license at least ten days prior to the date set for
hearing.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the denial of an application for license as
provided herein or the decision with reference to the suspension, refusal to
renew or revocation of a license shall have the right of appeal to the Council.
Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the Council, within 14 days after
notice of the action complained of has been mailed to such person’s address as
shown on the application for license, a written statement setting forth fully
the grounds for the appeal. The Council shall set a time and place for a
hearing on such appeal, and notice of such hearing shall be given to the
applicant in the same manner as provided for notice of hearing set forth in
division (A) above. The decision and order of the Council in such appeal shall
be final and conclusive, except any person aggrieved may pursue any proper
judicial proceedings.
   (C)   After the town issues a final decision to refuse to issue a license,
to suspend, to refuse to renew or to revoke a license, the person aggrieved by
the decision shall not be issued a license or re-licensed until all fees,
taxes, interest and penalties due have been paid and the person aggrieved is in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(1990 Code, § 8-2-10)  (Ord. 01-94, passed 9-8-1994)
CHAPTER 111:  PEDDLERS
Section
   
111.01   Permission required for selling on streets or sidewalks
   
111.02   Signs to be observed
§ 111.01  PERMISSION REQUIRED FOR SELLING ON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any booth, stand or
counter on any sidewalk in the town for the purpose of barter, sale or trade,
or keep or maintain upon the streets or alleys any wagon, cart, wheel, vehicle,
movable booth or stand for the purpose of barter or trade without obtaining
permission of the Council.
(1990 Code, § 8-1-1)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.02  SIGNS TO BE OBSERVED.
   It is unlawful for any peddler, solicitor or canvasser in the course of his
or her business to ring the doorbell or knock at any building whereon a sign
bearing the words “no peddlers, solicitors or canvassers” or a similar message
is exposed to public view.
(1990 Code, § 8-1-2)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112:  TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   License proposal
§ 112.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CABLE SERVICES and CABLE SYSTEM.  Any facility that, in whole or in part,
receives directly, or indirectly over the air, and amplifies or otherwise
modifies the signals transmitting programs broadcast by one or more television
or radio stations and distributes such signals together with such other signals
as authorized by the Federal Communications Commission and the licensing
authority, by wire or cable to subscribing members of the public who pay for
such sendee.
   COMMERCIAL MOBILE RADIO SERVICE.  Two-way voice commercial mobile radio
service as defined by the federal communications commission in 47 U.S.C. § 157.
   FACILITIES.  The plant, equipment, and property, including, but not limited
to, poles, wires, pipe, conduits, pedestals, antenna, and other appurtenances
placed in, on or under highways and not owned by the town and used in the
provision of telecommunication services. The term does not include wireless
facilities as that term is defined in §
113.03.
   LICENSE.  The ordinance or resolution which contains the right, authority or
grant, given by the town enabling the license holder to provide
telecommunications services.
   PUBLIC HIGHWAY or HIGHWAY.  All roads, streets and alleys and all other
dedicated public rights-of-way and public utility easements of the town.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS.  The transmission, between or among points specified by
the user, of information of the user’s choosing, without change in the form or
content of the information as sent and received. The term does not include
commercial mobile radio services, pay phone services, interstate services,
wireless services as that term is defined in §
113.03, or cable services.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION.  Any public service corporation to the
extent that it provides telecommunications services in this state.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES.  The offering of telecommunications for a fee
directly to the public, or to such users as to be effectively available
directly to the public, regardless of the facilities used.
(Ord. 03-2003, passed 1-8-2004; Ord. 01-2018, passed 2-8-2018)
§ 112.02  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No telecommunications corporation shall install, maintain, construct
or operate telecommunications facilities in any public highway in the town, or
provide telecommunications service by means of such facilities unless a license
to provide telecommunications services has first been granted by the Town
Council under this chapter, provided however that this chapter does not apply
to the installation, maintenance, construction and operation of wireless
facilities as that term is defined in §
113.03 , which activities shall be governed by
Chapter 113.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, any telecommunications corporation
that was providing telecommunications service within the state as of October
31, 1997 pursuant to a grant made to it or its lawful predecessors prior to the
effective date of the Arizona Constitution, may continue to provide
telecommunications services pursuant to that state grant, until the state grant
is lawfully repealed, revoked or amended, and need not obtain any further
authorization from the town to provide telecommunication services; provided,
however, that such entity must in all other respects comply with the
requirements applicable to telecommunications corporations, as provided in
A.R.S. Title 9, Chapter 5, Article 7.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to affect the terms or
conditions of any franchise, license or permit issued by the town prior to
October 31, 1997, or to release any party from its obligations thereunder.
Those franchises, licenses or permits shall remain fully enforceable in
accordance with their terms. The Town Manager, with the consent of the Town
Council, may enter into agreements with franchise holders, licensees or
permittees to modify or terminate an existing franchise, license or agreement.
   (D)   A license to any telecommunications corporation to use the highways to
install, maintain, construct or operate telecommunications facilities or to
provide telecommunications services under this chapter shall not authorize the
use of the highways to provide any other service, nor shall the issuance of the
same invalidate any franchise, license or permit that authorizes the use of the
highways for such other service, nor shall the fact that an entity holds a
franchise, license or permit to make any other use of the highway or to provide
any other service authorize installation, maintenance, construction or
operation of telecommunications facilities in any highway in the town, or
permit such entity to provide telecommunications services by means of such
facilities without obtaining a license hereunder.
   (E)   Any license granted shall not be exclusive.
(Ord. 03-2003, passed 1-8-2004; Ord. 01-2018, passed 2-8-2018)
§ 112.03  LICENSE PROPOSAL.
   (A)   A telecommunications corporation desiring a license to occupy the
streets and other highways of the town to provide telecommunications service
shall file a proposal with the Town Clerk, in the form prescribed by the town,
and shall pay a fee determined by the Town Council. The amount of the fee shall
be reasonably related to the cost directly incurred by the town relating to the
granting or administration of the license.
   (B)   Each application shall, at a minimum: show where the facilities the
applicant will use will be located, or contain such other information as the
town may deem necessary in order to ensure that the applicant will comply with
requirements for use of the highways; identify the applicant, its name, address
and telephone number; contain a description of the services to be provided; and
set out a description of any agreement with any other entity that would permit
such entity to use the facilities.
   (C)   Upon receiving an application for a license that satisfies the
conditions of division (B) above, the town shall promptly proffer a
telecommunications license to the applicant for its review, and may inquire
into matters relevant to the issuance of the license. If the applicant agrees
to the terms and conditions of the license, the request shall be approved.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the town need not issue or renew a license if
the applicant has previously had a license or permit revoked, or for any other
reason permitted under state law.
   (D)   As a condition of issuing or renewing a license to use the public
highways to provide telecommunications services, the town may require that:
      (1)   The applicant shows that it has received a certificate of public
convenience and necessity from the State Corporation Commission;
      (2)   The applicant agrees to comply with the highway use requirements
that the town may establish from time to time;
      (3)   The applicant agrees to provide and maintain accurate maps showing
the location of all the facilities it will use in the highways within the town,
and to comply with such other mapping requirements as the town may establish
from time to time;
      (4)   The applicant obtains the insurance, and provide proof of insurance
as required by the town; posts the performance bonds and security fund required
by the town; agrees to fully indemnify the town, its officers, agents, boards
and commissions, in a form satisfactory to the town; and agrees that it shall
have no recourse against the town for monetary damages as a result of any
damage that may result from the town’s exercise of its rights under the
license, or applicable provisions of law; and
      (5)   The applicant agrees to comply with and be bound by the
administrative and enforcement provisions as may be prescribed from time to
time by the town, which may include:
         (a)   Provisions covering assignment;
         (b)   The right to inspect records to determine compliance by the
licensee;
         (c)   Provisions for renewal; and
         (d)   Fees and charges contemplated by A.R.S. § 9-582(C) may be
charged by the town.
   (E)   Any license granted by the town pursuant to this chapter shall
commence upon adoption of the license and acceptance of the license by the
provider.
      (1)   The license shall be for a term of five years, and subject to the
conditions and restrictions provided in the instrument and this chapter.
      (2)   Licenses or franchises issued pursuant to this section shall be
renewed if:
         (a)   The telecommunications corporation satisfies the conditions of
the renewal license or franchise; and
         (b)   The renewal applicant has complied with the material terms of
its prior license or franchise and applicable law; however, renewal shall not
be denied for failure to comply with license or franchise terms unless the
licensee or franchisee has had written notice and a reasonable opportunity to
cure the defect in past performance.
   (F)   Every licensee shall be subject to the town’s exercise of such police,
regulatory and other powers as the town now has or may later obtain, and a
license may not waive the application of the same, and must be exercised in
strict conformity therewith. Every license shall be subject to revocation if
the licensee fails to comply with the terms and conditions of the license or
applicable law; provided, however, that a license shall not be revoked unless
the licensee is given written notice of the defect in performance and fails to
cure the defect within 60 days of the notice, except where the town finds that
the defect in performance is due to intentional misconduct, is a violation of
criminal law, or is part of a pattern of violations where the licensee has
already had notice and opportunity to cure. A hearing shall be held before a
license is revoked or not renewed if the licensee requests a hearing.
   (G)   The issuance of a license by the town is not a representation or
warranty that such license is a legally sufficient substitute for a franchise
and is not a representation or warranty that a franchise is not required.
(Ord. 03-2003, passed 1-8-2004)
CHAPTER 113:  WIRELESS FACILITIES IN THE RIGHT-OF-WAY;
MICROCELL EQUIPMENT ON STRANDS IN THE TOWN
Section
   
113.01   Purposes
   
113.02   Applicability
   
113.03   Definitions
   
113.04   General provisions
   
113.05   Small wireless facilities
   
113.06   Other wireless facilities
   
113.07   Microcell equipment mounted on strands
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01  PURPOSES.
   The purpose of this chapter is to manage the public right-of-way use by
wireless providers to enable the town to:
   (A)   Issue licenses on a competitively neutral and nondiscriminatory basis.
   (B)   Manage the public rights-of-way in compliance with Arizona Revised
Statutes, Title 9, Chapter 5, Articles 1.1 and 8.
   (C)   Minimize congestion, inconvenience, visual impact and other adverse
effects from the use of the public rights-of-way by wireless providers.
   (D)   Protect the town's investment in its public rights-of-way and
facilities in its public rights-of-way, including protecting the safety of the
traveling public, promoting aesthetic values of the town in its rights-of-way
and protecting town facilities in the rights-of-way.
(Ord. 01-2018, passed 2-8-2018)
§ 113.02  APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter applies to the use of the public rights-of-way by wireless
providers. It applies to telecommunications corporations as that term is
defined in A.R.S. § 9-581 only if and to the extent a telecommunications
corporation has or intends to locate wireless facilities in the public rights-
of-way and is a wireless provider.
(Ord. 01-2018, passed 2-8-2018)
§ 113.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTENNA.  Communications equipment that transmits or receives
electromagnetic radio frequency signals and that is used in providing wireless
services.
   APPLICABLE CODES.  The technical codes adopted pursuant to Town Code and to
the extent not inconsistent with Arizona Revised Statutes, Title 9, Chapter 5,
Articles 1.1 and 8.
   APPLICANT.  Any person that submits an application and that is a wireless
provider.
   APPLICATION.  A request that is submitted by an applicant to the town for
either a permit to collocate small wireless facilities or to approve the
installation, modification or replacement of a utility pole or wireless support
structure.
   A.R.S.  Arizona Revised Statutes.
   CABLE OPERATOR.  Has the same meaning prescribed in A.R.S. § 9-505. CABLE
OPERATOR does not include a special taxing district.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION.  To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate or
replace wireless facilities on, within or adjacent to a wireless support
structure or utility pole.
   COMMERCIAL MOBILE RADIO SERVICE.  Two-way voice commercial mobile radio
service as defined by the Federal Communications Commission in 47 U.S.C. § 157.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE.
      (1)   Cable service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6);
      (2)   Information service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(24);
      (3)   Telecommunications service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(53) to the
extent it provides wireless service; or
      (4)   Wireless service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER.   A  cable operator, a provider of
information service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(24). A telecommunications
carrier as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(51) to the extent it provides wireless
service or a wireless services provider.
   COUNCIL.  The Common Council of the Town of Clifton, Arizona.
   DESIGN STANDARDS.  The design standards adopted by the council for the
design of wireless facilities in the right-of-way.
   LAW.  Any federal, state or local law, statute, common law, code, rule,
regulation, order or ordinance.
   MASTER LICENSE or LICENSE.  A written agreement between the town and a
wireless provider that authorizes the use of the right-of-way for the
installation of wireless facilities and incorporates the standard terms and
conditions and the design standards.
   MICROCELL EQUIPMENT.  Devices that are connected to aerial facilities and
that are used solely for transmitting, processing and receiving voice and data
wireless telecommunications services. Microcell equipment does not include any
ground-based equipment.
   MICROCELL POLES.  A pole or similar structure and attached appurtenances,
including strand, that is designed for telecommunications, cable, data or
electric functions.
   MONOPOLE.  A wireless support structure that is not more than forty inches
in diameter at the ground level and that has all of the wireless facilities
mounted on the pole or contained inside of the pole.
   PERMIT.  Written permission required by the town to install, mount,
maintain, modify, operate or replace a utility pole, to collocate a small
wireless facility on a utility pole or wireless support structure or to
collocate wireless facilities.
   PRIVATE EASEMENT.  An easement or other real property right that is only for
the benefit of the grantor and grantee and the grantor's or grantee's
successors and assigns.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  The area on, below or above a public roadway, highway,
street, sidewalk, alley or utility easement. RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include a
federal interstate highway, a state highway or state route under the
jurisdiction of the Arizona Department of Transportation, a private easement,
property that is owned by a special taxing district formed pursuant to Title
48, Chapters 11, 12, 17, 18, 19, 20 and 22 or a utility easement that does not
authorize the deployment sought by the wireless provider.
   SHOT CLOCK.The period of time within which the city must approve or deny an
application. For colocation of a small wireless facility on an existing
structure, the shot clock is sixty days from the date of submittal of a
complete application. If the application is to locate a small wireless facility
using a new structure, the shot clock is 75 days from the date of submittal of
a complete application. The shot clock for all other applications shall be as
required by state or federal law, whichever is the most restrictive.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY.   A  wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   All antennas are located inside an enclosure of not more than six
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all of the antenna's exposed elements could fit within an
imaginary enclosure of not more than six cubic feet in volume; and
      (2)   All other wireless equipment associated with the facility is
cumulatively not more than twenty-eight cubic feet in volume, or fifty cubic
feet in volume if the equipment was ground mounted before August 9, 2017. The
following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the
calculation of equipment volume pursuant to this subsection:
         (a)   An electric meter.
         (b)   Concealment elements.
         (c)   A telecommunications demarcation box.
         (d)   Grounding equipment.
         (e)   A power transfer switch.
         (f)   A cutoff switch.
         (g)   Vertical cable runs for the connection of power and other
services.
   STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS.  The standard terms and conditions adopted by
the council as conditions for the construction, maintenance and collocation of
wireless facilities in the right-of-way, as amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION.  Any public service corporation to the
extent that it provides telecommunications services in this state.
   TOWN UTILITY POLE.  A utility pole that is owned or operated by the town and
that is in a right-of-way. Town utility poles does not include a utility pole
for electric distribution.
   UTILITY POLE.  A pole or similar structure in the right-of-way that is used
in whole or in part for communications services, electric distribution,
lighting or traffic signals. UTILITY POLE does not include a monopole.
   WIRELESS FACILITY.
      (1)   Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless communications
between user equipment and a communications network, including both of the
following:
         (a)   Equipment associated with wireless communications.
         (b)   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cables,
regular and backup power supplies and comparable equipment, regardless of
technological configuration.
      (2)   Includes small wireless facilities.
      (3)   Does not include the structure or improvements on, under or within
which the equipment is collocated, wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or
fiber-optic cable that is between wireless support structures or utility poles
or coaxial or fiber-optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to,
or directly associated with, an antenna.
      (4)   Does not include Wi-Fi radio equipment described in A.R.S. § 9-506,
subsection I or microcell equipment described in A.R.S. § 9-584, 22 subsection
E.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER.  Any person that is authorized to provide
telecommunications service in this state and that builds or installs wireless
communications transmission equipment, wireless facilities, utility poles or
monopoles but that is not a wireless services provider. WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE
PROVIDER does not include a special taxing district.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER.  A cable operator, wireless infrastructure provider or
wireless services provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES.  Any services that are provided to the public and that
use licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER.  A person that provides wireless services.
WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER does not include a special taxing district.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE.
      (1)   A freestanding structure.
      (2)   A tower, either guyed or self-supporting.
      (3)   A sign or billboard.
      (4)   Any other existing or proposed structure designed to support or
capable of supporting small wireless facilities.
      (5)   Does not include a utility pole.
(Ord. 01-2018, passed 2-8-2018; Am. Ord. 06-2019, passed 1-9-2020)
§ 113.04  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Requirements for wireless facilities in the right-of-way.
      (1)   The construction, maintenance, location and collocation of wireless
facilities in the rights-of-way shall comply with this chapter, applicable
codes, applicable law, the standard terms and conditions and design standards.
      (2)   Those documents entitled “Town of Clifton Wireless Facilities in
the Right-of-Way Standard Terms and Conditions” and “Town of Clifton Design
Standards, Concepts and Requirements - Wireless facilities in the right-of-
way,” and the document entitled wireless facilities in the right-of-way
standard terms and conditions amendment No. I, three copies of which are on
file in the office of the Town Clerk, are adopted herein by this reference.
   (B)   No obstruction or interference. Wireless facilities shall be
constructed, maintained and located as to not obstruct, endanger or hinder the
usual travel or public safety on the right-of-way, damage or interfere with any
utility facilities in the right-of-way or interfere with a utility's use of the
utility's facilities in the right-of-way. Construction and maintenance by the
wireless provider shall comply with the National Electrical Safety Code and all
applicable laws and regulations for the protection of underground and overhead
utility facilities.
   (C)   Relocation. If the town determines that a utility pole, monopole or
wireless support structure of a wireless provider will be relocated to
accommodate a public project, all such wireless facilities deployed on such
utility pole, monopole or wireless support structure on the wireless facility
shall be relocated by the wireless provider at no cost to the town.
   (D)   Repair of damages. A wireless provider shall repair all damage to the
town's property and the right-of-way that is caused by the activities of the
wireless provider or the wireless provider's contractor arising out of work in
the right-of-way related to small wireless facilities, wireless support
structures or utility poles. A wireless provider shall return the damaged
property to the same condition as before the damage pursuant to the standard
terms and conditions. If the wireless provider fails to make the repairs
required within the time set forth in the notice from the town to do so, the
town may make the repairs and charge the wireless provider the reasonable,
documented cost of the repairs.
   (E)   Fees and rates. Fees and rates for applications, construction,
installation, maintenance, modification, operation and replacement of a
wireless facilities shall be adopted by resolution of the council.
   (F)   Completion of authorized work. The construction, installation,
mounting, maintenance, modification, operation or replacement for which a
permit is granted shall be completed in accordance with applicable codes,
applicable law and the design standards within one hundred eighty days after
the permit issuance date, unless such time is extended by the town.
   (G)   Use of town support structures. Nothing in this chapter prohibits or
limits the town from denying, regulating and/or charging for the collocation of
a wireless facility on a wireless support structure owned by the town outside
the right-of-way.
(Ord. 01-2018, passed 2-8-2018; Am. Ord. 06-2019, passed 1-9-2020)
§ 113.05  SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Applicability. This section applies to small wireless facilities in
the right-of-way and requirements for wireless providers to construct,
maintain, locate and collocate small wireless facilities in the right-of-way.
   (B)   Permitted use.
      (1)   Small wireless facilities are permitted uses in the right-of-way
and are not subject to zoning review and approval if the utility pole does not
exceed the greater of either:
         (a)   Ten feet in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on August 9, 2017, that is located within five hundred feet of the new,
replacement or modified utility pole and that is in the same right-of-way
within the jurisdictional boundary of the town, but not more than 50 feet above
ground level.
         (b)   Forty (40) feet above ground level.
      (2)   The existing utility pole referred to in Paragraph a above as the
basis for utility pole height must be in the same right-of-way and be located
within the jurisdictional boundaries of town.
      (3)   Unless authorized or required by applicable codes, applicable law
or the design standards, the town shall not require the placement of small
wireless facilities on any specific utility pole or category of poles or
require multiple antenna systems on a single utility pole.
      (4)   Unless authorized or required by applicable codes, applicable law
or the design standards, the town shall not limit the placement of small
wireless facilities by minimum separation distances.
   (C)   Application.
      (1)   Applications shall be submitted in compliance with the standard
terms and conditions.
      (2)   Consolidated applications for the collocation of up to 25 small
wireless facilities may be submitted by an applicant only if all small wireless
facilities included are substantially the same type and involve substantially
the same type of structure. Small wireless facilities collocations may be
removed from the application and considered separately if incomplete
information was provided, the small wireless facilities does not qualify for
consolidated treatment or the small wireless facilities is subject to a denial.
      (3)   Within ten days after receiving an application, the Building
Department shall determine and notify the applicant whether the application is
complete or the application will be deemed complete. Small wireless facilities
collocations may be removed from the application and considered separately if
incomplete information was provided, the small wireless facilities does not
qualify for consolidated treatment or the small wireless facilities is denied.
If an application is incomplete, the town shall describe the information that
is missing. If the Building Department fails to approve or deny the application
within the applicable shot clock, the application will be deemed approved. If
the application is denied, the denial shall describe the specific code
provisions, regulation or requirements on which the denial was based and
provide that with the notice of denial. The town shall approve or deny the
revised application within applicable shot clock.
      (4)   Applications shall be approved unless they do not meet the
requirements of this chapter, applicable codes, town codes and regulations
concerning public safety, the standard terms and conditions or the design
standards.
      (5)   No application shall be required for routine maintenance or the
replacement of small wireless facilities with small wireless facilities that ae
substantially similar or the same size or smaller.
   (D)   Delegation of Authority.
      (1)   The Town Manager is authorized to approve applications for small
wireless facilities that comply with the design standards, applicable codes and
other provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   All other applications for small wireless facilities require the
approval of the council.
   (E)   Other requirements.
      (1)   No work shall be commenced until a master license and permit have
been approved pursuant to the standard terms and conditions.
      (2)   The placement of small wireless facilities shall not interfere with
the town's public safety communications.
(Ord. 01-2018, passed 2-8-2018; Am. Ord. 06-2019, passed 1-9-2020)
§ 113.06  OTHER WIRELESS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Applicability. This section applies to small wireless facilities that
exceed height limitations set forth in §
113.05(B)(1).
   (B)   Zoning review and approval.
      (1)   Small wireless facilities that exceed height limitations set forth
in §
113.05(B)(1) are subject to all town codes and regulations, including its
zoning codes and other regulatory processes governing use of the rights-of-way.
Monopoles are not permitted in the right-of-way.
      (2)   Within ten days after receiving an application, the Building
Department shall determine and notify the applicant whether the application is
complete. An application that requires zoning approval is not complete until
the zoning approval is effective. If the application is incomplete, the
Building Department will specifically identify the information that is missing.
The Building Department shall approve or deny the within the applicable shot
clock. The time period for approval may be tolled to accommodate timely
requests for information required to complete the application or may be
extended by mutual agreement. If a complete application is denied, the Building
Department shall notify the applicant in writing and provide substantial
supporting evidence of the reason for denial in the written record.
(Ord. 01-2018, passed 2-8-2018; Am. Ord. 06-2019, passed 1-9-2020)
§ 113.07  MICROCELL EQUIPMENT MOUNTED ON STRANDS.
   (A)   Applicability. Notwithstanding any provisions of this chapter to the
contrary, the provisions of this §
113.07 shall apply to the installation, operation and maintenance of microcell
equipment in the town by telecommunications corporations and cable operators.
An entity that has all applicable authorizations required to provide commercial
mobile radio service using microcell equipment may use microcell equipment to
provide commercial mobile radio service.
   (B)   Applications. Applications for the installation, operation and
maintenance of microcell equipment in the public highways within the town shall
comply with the requirements of this section.
   (C)   Fees. The council shall establish fees for microcell equipment mounted
on strands by resolution.
   (D)   Limitations. At each site where microcell equipment is installed, such
installation is limited to:
      (1)   Not more than two strand-mounted antennas and radio pairs that are
owned by a entity described in division (A) of this section.
      (2)   Related devices owned by the applicant that are mounted on strand
between the microcell poles on which the strands are mounted, including power
supplies, housings, cables and similar supporting furnishings and improvements.
(Ord. 01-2018, passed 2-8-2018)
§ 113.99  PENALTY.
   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a class one misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punishable by a fine not to exceed $2,500 or by imprisonment for a period not
to exceed six months, or both such fine and imprisonment. Each day that a
violation continues shall be a separate offense punishable as herein described.
(Ord. 01-2018, passed 2-8-2018)
CHAPTER 114:  AUTOMATED KIOSKS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Licensing and operation
   
114.03   Reports to law enforcement
   
114.04   Storage, retention and retrieval
   
114.05   Fees
   
114.06   Fines; penalties
   
114.07   Appeals
§ 114.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT.   T he person who applies for a license pursuant to this chapter.
   AUTOMATED KIOSK.   A n interactive device that is installed within a retail
space at which used consumer electronic devices are sold, traded, recycled, or
otherwise received by a person.
   AUTOMATED KIOSK LICENSE.  A license issued pursuant to this chapter
authorizing a person to operate one or more automated kiosk(s) within the
boundaries of town.
   CONSUMER ELECTRONIC DEVICE.  Any portable electronic or digital device
designed to be purchased and used by end users or consumers for daily, non-
commercial purposes; examples of consumer electronic devices include, but are
not limited to, cellular telephones, touch screen tablets, laptop computers,
smart watches, and digital media players.
   CONTROLLING PERSON.  A person who either (A) has a 10% or greater interest
in the ownership or earnings of the business, or (B) is any of the following:
      (1)   An officer, director, or any stockholder who owns 10% or more, of a
corporation licensee/applicant;
      (2)   A general partner of a limited partnership licensee/applicant or
partner of a non-limited partnership licensee/applicant;
      (3)   An officer, president, or secretary of a limited liability company/
corporation licensee/applicant; or
      (4)   The sole proprietor of a sole proprietorship licensee/applicant.
   DESIGNATED AGENT.  The person designated by the applicant or licensee to
receive notices from the town pursuant to this chapter.
   ESN.  A unique number assigned by the manufacturer to identify a mobile
phone or device, commonly referred to as an electronic serial number.
   IMEI.  A unique number used by wireless carriers and cell phone
manufacturers to identify mobile phones and devices, commonly referred to as an
international mobile equipment identity.
   LICENSEE.  The person who applied for a license pursuant to this chapter and
in whose name such license was issued by the town pursuant to this chapter.
   MEID.  A unique identifier used by wireless carriers and cell phone
manufacturers to identify a mobile phone, commonly referred to as a mobile
equipment identifier.
   PERSON.  An individual, partnership, corporation, association or any other
entity of whatever kind or nature.
(Ord. 02-2018, passed 3-8-2018)
§ 114.02  LICENSING AND OPERATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person to operate an automated kiosk at any
location within town without obtaining a license pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   A license issued pursuant to this chapter is valid for a period of one
year from the date of issuance.
   (C)   The kiosk(s) shall operate only at the location(s) designated on the
license. The license shall designate all locations where property belonging to
the licensee is processed and stored. Property of the licensee may be processed
and stored at locations not designated on the license only with the written and
signed consent of the town.
   (D)   Application requirements; procedure. Any person desiring to obtain a
new or renewal license must apply to the town by presenting a complete
application, the applicable fee, and fingerprint records to the Town Clerk.
      (1)   The application shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
         (a)   The names, addresses, and contact information for all
controlling persons and designated agents of the applicant.
         (b)   All locations within the town at which the applicant intends to
operate a kiosk and the number of kiosks that will be at each such location.
         (c)   The location(s) where property obtained at the kiosk may be
processed and stored.
      (2)   Fingerprint records are required:
         (a)   On all new applications, for all applicants and controlling
persons; and
         (b)   For renewal applicants, for any new controlling person(s) for
the licensee.
      (3)   Fingerprints shall be submitted in a form approved by the town. The
fingerprints shall be submitted to the Arizona Department of Public Safety to
be used to obtain a state and federal criminal records check in accordance with
A.R.S. § 41-1750 and Public Law 92-544. The Arizona Department of Public Safety
is authorized to exchange this fingerprint data with the United States Federal
Bureau of Investigation.
   (E)   (1)   Following receipt of the required documents and fees, all new
applications shall be submitted to the Town Police Department for investigation
and criminal record review in accordance with this chapter.
      (2)   The Police Department, on behalf of the Town of Clifton, shall
receive and review the criminal history record information resulting from the
criminal records check set forth above, including conviction and non-conviction
data, of license applicants and controlling persons for the purpose of
evaluating the fitness of licensees and controlling persons in connection with
the issuance, renewal, suspension or revocation of a license. Such information
shall be used only for the purpose of such evaluation or for the purpose of
supporting and defending a denial, non-renewal, suspension, or revocation of a
license.
   (F)   Complete renewal applications must be submitted to the Town Clerk no
later than 30 calendar days prior to the expiration of a license, otherwise the
license shall be deemed expired and non-renewable. If the renewal application
is not received as stated above, the licensee shall submit an application for a
new license and provide all information and fees required for a new license
application.
   (G)   A new or renewal license shall be issued to an applicant pursuant to
this chapter unless:
      (1)   The applicant failed to provide a completed application, the
required fee, or the fingerprint records;
      (2)   The applicant or a controlling person has been convicted during the
ten year period prior to submission of the application of a felony involving
trafficking in stolen property, fraud, forgery, theft, burglary, robbery,
extortion, conspiracy to defraud, any preparatory offenses of the
aforementioned crimes, a felony involving fraudulent or dishonest act, or a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
      (3)   The applicant fails to pay the applicable license and reporting fee
for a new license when the license is submitted for approval;
      (4)   The applicant or a controlling person is currently in violation of
this chapter, or other code violations such as failure to pay transaction
privilege taxes or zoning code violations;
      (5)   The application contains false or misleading information; or
      (6)   The applicant has a current debt related to any open or closed
account maintained or formerly maintained with the town.
   (H)   A licensee may operate an automated kiosk in the town if the automated
kiosk performs all of the functions set forth in this subsection:
      (1)   Uses a live representative to remotely monitor the automated kiosk
during all hours of operation;
      (2)   Verifies a seller's identity via a valid motor vehicle operator's
license, valid motor vehicle non-operating identification license, valid armed
forces identification card or other valid photo identification, including the
serial or identification number of such valid document sufficient to verify the
information required to be reported in §
114.03(A).
      (3)   Secures storage of consumer electronic devices accepted by the
automated kiosk and adheres to the storage and retention requirements pursuant
to §
114.04;
      (4)   Captures and stores images during each transaction of i) the
seller, ii) the identification required in §
114.02(H)(2), and iii) the consumer electronic device;
      (5)   Electronically reports all transactions to law enforcement pursuant
to §
114.03;
      (6)   Reads and records ESN, IMEI, or MEID, subject to §
114.03(B)(7); and
      (7)   Only buys consumer electronic devices.
   (I)   The town shall give written notice of a violation to the licensee or
designated agent that may result in the suspension or revocation of the
license. The notice shall include a description of the violation, the statutory
or code reference, how the licensee can comply with the requirements, a
description of the process whereby a hearing may be requested, the time limit
for requesting a hearing, and a warning that failure to timely request a
hearing may result in suspension or revocation of the license. The notice shall
be personally served on the licensee or mailed to the licensee's last known
address. Service of the notice shall be deemed complete upon mailing or
personal service on the licensee.
   (J)   The licensee or designated agent receiving a notice under this section
may request, in writing, a hearing before the Town Council pursuant to §
110.10 of this Code. If the licensee fails to comply with the requirements of
this chapter by the date provided in the notice, the town may suspend or revoke
the license as provided in this section.
   (K)   The town may suspend a license for a period of time not to exceed 30
calendar days if the town determines that the licensee or the designated agent
or a controlling person of the licensee has violated or is not in compliance
with any provision of this chapter. During the suspension period, the licensee
shall not transact any business through the automated kiosk(s) associated with
the suspended licenses. If a fine is associated with the violation that is the
basis for the suspension, the suspension may continue beyond the period set
forth in this subsection until such time as the licensee pays the fine.
   (L)   The town may revoke a license issued pursuant to this chapter if the
town determines that:
      (1)   A licensee or designated agent operated the business during a
period of time when the license was suspended;
      (2)   A licensee, designated agent or controlling person is convicted of
a felony involving trafficking in stolen property, fraud, forgery, theft,
burglary, robbery, extortion, conspiracy to defraud, any preparatory offenses
of the aforementioned crimes, a felony involving fraudulent or dishonest act or
a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
      (3)   The licensee or designated agent has operated, or has attempted to
operate an automated kiosk at a location that is unlicensed;
      (4)   The town previously issued three or more notices of suspension
within a six month period;
      (5)   The licensee or designated agent has not complied with a provision
of this chapter or has failed to provide information as required by this
chapter;
      (6)   The application fee, license fee, reporting fee, or any transaction
privilege tax has not been paid; or
      (7)   The licensee fails to pay outstanding fines or resolve any
violations.
   (M)   It is a violation of this chapter for any person to provide false
information on any license application.
   (N)   It is a violation of this chapter for a person to operate an automated
kiosk that either fails to meet all of the requirements in this chapter or when
the person does not have a license issued pursuant to this chapter.
   (O)   If a license is revoked pursuant to this section, the licensee and its
controlling person(s) may not apply for a license under this chapter for a
period of one year from the date of revocation.
(Ord. 02-2018, passed 3-8-2018)  Penalty, see §
114.06
§ 114.03  REPORTS TO LAW ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   At the time of each transaction whereby a consumer electronic device
is received at a kiosk, a licensee shall prepare a true, complete, legible and
accurate report of the transaction including a description of the consumer
electronic device received. The report shall be submitted to the town within 24
hours after receipt of the consumer electronic device. The report shall be in a
form designated by the Town Police Department. Submission of the report to the
town is deemed accepted when the report is delivered in person to the address
designated by the Town Police Department, or when the report is sent
electronically to the police department utilizing software approved by the Town
Police Department. The reporting party shall retain a copy of the report for a
minimum of two years from the date of the transaction.
   (B)   Each report shall, at a minimum, contain for each consumer electronic
device received the following information:
      (1)   The name, current address and date of birth of the seller as shown
on the identification requirements pursuant to §
114.02(H)(2);
      (2)   A legible color copy of the photo identification used to verify the
seller's identity in §
114.02(H)(2);
      (3)   A digital color photograph of the consumer electronic device
purchased by the licensee;
      (4)   A digital color photograph of the seller;
      (5)   An electronic signature and fingerprint of the seller;
      (6)   An accurate and legible description of each consumer electronic
device item purchased or received, including, as applicable, the manufacturer's
name, model number and serial number.
      (7)   The ESN, IMEI or the MEID of the consumer electronic device
purchased. If the ESN, IMEI or MEID is not available at the time of purchase or
receipt, the report filed pursuant to this subsection must be updated with the
ESN, IMEI or MEID as soon as known by the licensee, but no later than 15
calendar days after the transaction. The hold requirement outlined in §
114.04(A) shall not begin until all required contents of the report are
complete and submitted to the Town Police Department;
      (8)   The amount paid for the consumer electronic device;
      (9)   The date and time when the consumer electronic device was received;
and
      (10)   The location of the automated kiosk where the consumer electronic
device was sold or collected.
   (C)   It is a violation for of this chapter any person to provide false
information on reports required by this section.
(Ord. 02-2018, passed 3-8-2018)  Penalty, see §
114.06
§ 114.04  STORAGE, RETENTION AND RETRIEVAL.
   (A)   A licensee shall retain consumer electronic devices received at an
automated kiosk at a secure location designated on the license for at least 30
calendar days after submitting the complete report to the town required under §
113.03. Any consumer electronic device held in custody pursuant to this section
shall not be altered or transformed in any way but shall be held in the same
condition in which it was received by the automated kiosk.
   (B)   Consumer electronic devices retained at a designated location(s) under
this section are subject to return and inspection by the Town during regular
business hours of the location or, at a minimum, during the hours of 9:00 a.m.
to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday.
   (C)   Within 24 hours of a request by the Town Police Department or law
enforcement agency, the licensee shall comply with a request to open the
automated kiosk to allow the law enforcement agency the opportunity to inspect
the accessory bin and review any data that records transactions.
   (D)   Upon being advised by a representative of the Town Police Department
that there is probable cause to believe a consumer electronic device in the
possession of the licensee is stolen or was used in the perpetration of a
crime, the licensee operating the automated kiosk shall, upon request by the
Town Police Department or other law enforcement agency:
      (1)   Within three calendar days, surrender such consumer electronic
device to the law enforcement agency and the law enforcement agency shall
provide a seized property receipt for the consumer electronic device; or
      (2)   At the sole discretion of the requesting law enforcement agency,
the consumer electronic device may be retained within the place of business on
an investigative hold for a period not to exceed 90 calendar days; during that
time period, law enforcement may seize the consumer electronic device upon
providing the licensee appropriate notification of the seizure and making
arrangements to take physical custody of the consumer electronic device. The
licensee shall produce the consumer electronic device at reasonable times and
places, or may deliver the consumer electronic device to a representative of
the law enforcement agency.
   (E)   The investigative hold shall be effective immediately upon oral or
written notice to the licensee. If the hold is placed orally, it shall be
followed by a written notice mailed to the licensee operating the automated
kiosk within five calendar days.
   (F)   A licensee shall not sell, transfer, exchange or otherwise dispose of
any consumer electronic devices in violation of this section.
(Ord. 02-2018, passed 3-8-2018)  Penalty, see §
114.06
§ 114.05  FEES.
   Licensing and reporting fees adopted by the Town Council by separate
resolution shall be paid for each automated kiosk that is designated on the
license.
(Ord. 02-2018, passed 3-8-2018)
§ 114.06  FINES; PENALTIES.
   (A)   Each day any violation of any provision of this chapter shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense, except when the violation is from a bona
fide error that occurred provided that the licensee maintains procedures
reasonable adopted to avoid the occurrence of bona fide errors.
   (B)   A violation of this chapter that is not a bona fide error, whether or
not specifically designated as being unlawful, shall be a Class One Misdemeanor
and upon conviction shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of the Clifton Town Code.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, "bona fide error" includes clerical,
calculation, computer malfunction, programming, and printing errors and other
similar errors.
   (D)   A licensee or designated agent who does not comply with a request by a
law enforcement agency to inspect an automated kiosk pursuant to §
114.04(C), or refuses to return a consumer electronic device to law enforcement
that is identified as stolen or involved in the perpetration of a crime
pursuant to §
114.04(D) shall be issued a notice stating that the licensee or designated
agent shall comply with the request by the law enforcement agency within five
calendar days of receipt of the notice.
   (E)   The notice shall include a description of the violation, the statutory
or code reference, how the licensee can comply with the requirements, a
description of how a hearing may be requested, the time limit for requesting a
hearing, and a warning that failure to timely request a hearing may result in
revocation of the license.
   (F)   A licensee or designated agent receiving a notice under this section
may request a hearing before the Town Council pursuant to §
110.10 of this Code. If the licensee fails to comply with the requirements
under subsection (A) of this section by the date provided in the notice, the
Town Police Department may (1) disable the automated kiosks by removing the
automated kiosks from the power source and placing a notice on the machines
that the kiosk is not operational; and (2) revoke the license pursuant to §
114.02(L). The licensee is responsible for the cost incurred by law enforcement
to disable the automated kiosks in accordance with this subsection and any
fines or fees assessed by the court.
   (G)   Once an automated kiosk is disabled, the town shall issue a notice to
the licensee or its designated agent by certified mail that describes the
action taken pursuant to this section. The notice shall include a description
of the violation, the statutory or code reference, a description of how a
hearing may be requested, and the time limit for requesting a hearing. A person
receiving the notice under this subsection may request a hearing before the
Town Council pursuant to §
110.10 of this code. If a licensee or designated agent fails to request a
hearing, the automated kiosks shall remain disabled.
   (H)   The Town Police Department shall take every reasonable precaution in
the event the town finds it necessary to disable the automated kiosks and the
town shall incur no liability by such action.
(Ord. 02-2018, passed 3-8-2018)
§ 114.07  APPEALS.
   Any suspension, refusal to renew, or revocation of a license may be appealed
to the Town Council pursuant to §
110.10 of the Town Code.
(Ord. 02-2018, passed 3-8-2018)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130:  MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Dangerous constructions
   
130.02   Excavations
   
130.03   Explosives
   
130.04   Fences; barbed wire or electric
   
130.05   Fireworks
   
130.06   Minors
   
130.07   Noise
   
130.08   Nuisance
   
130.09   Obstruction of view
   
130.10   Offensive business
   
130.11   Offensive premises
   
130.12   Playing ball on the street
   
130.13   Prostitution
   
130.14   Removal of snow and ice
   
130.15   Searchlights
   
130.16   Signs and banners
   
130.17   Spitting
   
130.18   Storage of automobiles and automobile parts
   
130.19   Town parks; hours and permits
   
130.20   Water; flow upon streets prohibited
   
130.21   Window sills to be kept clear
   
130.22   Trailer courts and trailer coaches
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned and inoperable vehicles, see
Chapter 92
   Litter, see
Chapter 93
§ 130.01  DANGEROUS CONSTRUCTIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to situate, construct or maintain any signs,
billboards, awnings and other similar structures over or near streets,
sidewalks, public grounds or places frequented by the public, in such a manner
as to endanger the public safety.
(1990 Code, § 11-1-1)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02  EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to excavate, dig or produce in any
manner or cause to be made any opening, displacement, depression or impairment
of the surface of any public place or public thoroughfare without first making
application for a permit from the Public Works Director.
   (B)   The work of excavating shall be under the supervision and direction of
the Public Works Director or an employee appointed by the Town Manager.
   (C)   The applicant shall be liable for all damages to persons or property
caused by such excavating and shall hold the town harmless for any damages
incurred in performance of the work specified.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person to make any excavation or dig any hole,
drain or ditch in any highway or thoroughfare in the town without providing a
sufficient light at night and a temporary fence or suitable obstruction around
such excavation to protect the public during the day.
   (E)   It is unlawful for any person to maintain a well, cellar, pit or other
excavation of more than two feet in depth on any unenclosed lot, without
substantial curbing, covering or protection.
   (F)   Any person authorized to excavate in any public place, public road,
street, alley, right-of-way or public thoroughfare shall, as soon as is
practicable, but in no event later than 30 days after completion of such
excavation, restore said public place, public road, street, alley, right-of-way
or public thoroughfare to at least the same condition as existed prior to such
excavation; provided, however, in the event necessary for the public safety,
the town may, by written notice, require that the public place, public road,
street, alley, right-of-way or public thoroughfare be restored in less than 30
days.
   (G)   In the event the person making the excavation has made a good faith
attempt to restore the public place, public road, street, alley, right-of-way
or public thoroughfare to at least the condition as existed prior to such
excavation, but has done so in a manner unsatisfactory to the town, the town
shall, be certified mail, notify the grantee, licensee or other responsible
party of its failure to properly restore said public place, public road,
street, alley, right-of-way or public thoroughfare setting forth what actions
must be taken to properly restore said public place, public road, street,
alley, right-of-way or public thoroughfare to its previous condition and the
time in which said actions must be taken.
   (H)   If the restoration required by divisions (F) or (G) above is not
timely performed, the town may perform the work necessary to restore the public
place, public road, street, alley, right-of-way or public thoroughfare to its
previous condition and charge the expense of such restoration to the
responsible grantee, licensee or other responsible party.
   (I)   For the purpose of this section, unless the context otherwise
requires, EXCAVATION means any operation in which earth, rock or other material
in the ground is moved, removed or otherwise displaced by means or use of any
tools, equipment or explosives and includes, without limitation, grading,
trenching, digging, ditching, drilling, auguring, tunneling, scraping, cable or
pipe plowing and driving.
(1990 Code, § 11-1-2)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03  EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person within the limits of the town to keep or
use a highly explosive substance without a written permit from the Police
Chief.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to make, or transport any highly
explosive substance within the corporate limits of the town, without a permit
from the Council.
   (C)   Permits issued pursuant to division (B) above, shall specify the exact
route to be used by said vehicle and may permit the vehicle to be parked at a
certain specified place for a specified time. Each such permit shall be valid
for the time period specified.
   (D)   Persons who keep, use or transport their own ammunition, solely for
sporting purposes, shall be exempt from these provisions.
(1990 Code, § 11-1-3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04  FENCES; BARBED WIRE OR ELECTRIC.
   Unless permitted by zoning, it is unlawful for any person to erect or
maintain within the town any electric fence or any fence constructed in whole
or in part of barbed wire. Any such fence is hereby declared a public nuisance
and subject to abatement by order of the Town Court.
(1990 Code, § 11-1-4)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05  FIREWORKS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession any
fireworks or combustible or explosive material combined in such a manner as to
produce lights or flashes of light or explosive noises for display or
amusement.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be held to apply to the possession or
use of signaling devices for current daily use by railroads, trucks and others
requiring them.
   (C)   The Chief of the Fire Department or the Clerk may, upon application,
issue a permit to a properly qualified person for giving a pyrotechnic display
in the public parks or other open spaces.
(1990 Code, § 11-1-5)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.06  MINORS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person under 18 years of age to visit any
public place or be on the streets, alleys or public grounds within the town
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m., unless such person is
accompanied by a parent, guardian or some person of lawful age having legal
custody of such person. It is unlawful for any parent, guardian or other adult
person having the care and custody of such person to permit, allow or abet such
person to violate this section.
   (B)   This section does not apply to a minor who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department  about the minor's presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the town, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the town, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
(1990 Code, § 11-1-6)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.07  NOISE.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and it is unlawful for
any person, firm or corporation owning or operating or in control of any
restaurant, hotel, dance hall, show, store or any place of public amusement,
entertainment or accommodation, to play or permit to be played any music or
musical instrument whether played by individuals, orchestra, radio, phonograph,
music box or other mechanical device or means in such a loud or unusual manner
as to be offensive to the senses, or so as to disturb the slumber, peace and
quiet, or otherwise interfere with or annoy the comfortable enjoyment of life
or property of any person and is no less a nuisance because the extent of the
annoyance inflicted is unequal.
   (B)   It is unlawful to play, operate or use any device known as a sound
truck, loud speaker or sound amplifier, radio or phonograph with loud speaker
or sound amplifier or any instrument of any kind or character which emits loud
and raucous noises and is attached to and upon any vehicle unless such person
in charge of such vehicle shall have first applied to and received permission
from the Chief of Police to operate any such vehicle so equipped.
(1990 Code, § 11-1-7)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.08  NUISANCE.
   (A)   Anything which is injurious to health, or is indecent, or offensive to
the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere
with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property by an entire community or
neighborhood, or which unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the
customary manner, of any public park, square, alley, sidewalk, street or
highway, is a public nuisance, and is no less a nuisance because the extent of
the annoyance or damage inflicted is unequal.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to maintain or commit a public nuisance,
or to willfully omit to perform any legal duty relating to the removal of a
public nuisance.
   (C)   A public nuisance may be abated by order of the Town Court.
(1990 Code, § 11-1-8)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.09  OBSTRUCTION OF VIEW.
   It is unlawful for any person to maintain or allow any tree, hedge,
billboard or other obstruction which prevents persons driving vehicles on
public streets, alleys or highways from obtaining a clear view of traffic when
approaching an intersection or pedestrian crosswalk.
(1990 Code, § 11-1-9)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.10  OFFENSIVE BUSINESS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person maintaining any slaughterhouse,
rendering works, depository of dead animals, glue works, tannery, wool washing
establishment, paper mill, by-product coke oven, oil refinery, dairy, creamery,
cheese factory, milk station or similar establishment; or engaging in the
manufacture of gas, chemicals, explosives, fertilizers or similar products; or
in the business of soap making, fish oil extraction, bone boiling or similar
occupation; to allow any noxious exhalation, odors or gases that are
deleterious or detrimental to public health to escape into the air, or to
accumulate any substance that is deleterious or detrimental to public health
upon the premises or to throw or discharge the same into any stream or other
waters of the state.
   (B)   All slaughterhouses, rendering works, bone boiling establishments,
depositories for dead animals, garbage disposal works, piggeries and similar
establishments handling organic matter shall have an adequate water supply for
the purpose of keeping the place clean and sanitary. All floors shall be
constructed of concrete or other impervious material and shall have adequate
provision for drainage to a sewer or treatment works approved by the State
Department of Health Services.
(1990 Code, § 11-1-10)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.11  OFFENSIVE PREMISES.
   It is unlawful for any person to suffer, or permit any premises belonging to
or occupied by him or her, or any cellar, privy, vault, pool, sewer, septic
tank or private drain therein to become nauseous, foul or offensive to the
senses or prejudicial to the public health or comfort.
(1990 Code, § 11-1-11)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.12  PLAYING BALL ON THE STREET.
   It is unlawful for any person to play ball or throw any ball to and upon any
public thoroughfare in the town.
(1990 Code, § 11-1-12)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.13  PROSTITUTION.
   It is unlawful for any person to practice prostitution, to patronize a
prostitute or to solicit any person to visit or patronize a prostitute or place
of prostitution.
(1990 Code, § 11-1-13)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.14  REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner or tenant of any premises abutting
or adjoining any public sidewalk to remove all snow or ice from such sidewalk.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the town to give notice to any owner or tenant
of any property to remove snow or ice. Such notice shall be sent by registered
mail to the last known address of such owner, tenant or occupant. The owner or
occupant shall have not more than 24 hours from and after receipt of such
notice, within which to remove the snow or ice as set forth in said notice.
   (C)   Upon failure of an owner or tenant to comply with the provisions of
this section, the town shall have the right to remove such snow or ice and
assess the cost thereof against the premises abutting the sidewalk.
(1990 Code, § 11-1-14)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.15  SEARCHLIGHTS.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate within the town any incandescent or
arc-type searchlight, beacon light or similar lighting device designed to and
capable of projecting a beam of light into the sky for a distance in excess of
one-half mile unless permission is obtained from the Council. The provisions of
this section shall not apply to emergency searchlights or beacons operated
pursuant to public authority.
(1990 Code, § 11-1-15)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.16  SIGNS AND BANNERS.
   It is unlawful for any person to place any banner or sign upon any
streetlight pole, traffic signal pole or utility pole within the town without
first obtaining authorization from the Council.
(1990 Code, § 11-1-16)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.17  SPITTING.
   It is unlawful for any person to spit upon any of the public sidewalks or
crosswalks in the town or upon any public path, by-way or highway, or in or on
any public ground or park in the town or upon the floor or interior of any
public building in the town.
(1990 Code, § 11-1-17)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.18  STORAGE OF AUTOMOBILES AND AUTOMOBILE PARTS.
   It is unlawful for any person to keep, wreck, store or allow to remain, in
such a manner as to be exposed to view from without the property, any motor
vehicle or any part or parts thereof, no longer licensed for operation as a
motor vehicle upon any property in the town.
(1990 Code, § 11-1-18)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.19  TOWN PARKS; HOURS AND PERMITS.
   (A)   For the months of April to September, it shall be unlawful to remain,
enter or be in a town park between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m.
Mountain Standard Time, except as may be approved by permit. For the months of
October to May, it shall be unlawful to remain, enter or be in a town park
between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. Mountain Standard Time, except as
may be approved by permit.
   (B)   The town may issue permits providing for the exclusive use of a park
by a group making application for said use, and the Town Manager may issue a
permit providing for such use a charge to be determined from time to time by
resolution of the Council. As to the persons or group described in the permit
only, and no other person, the permit may by its terms extend the time in which
it is lawful to remain, enter or be in the park.
   (C)   The Police Department and other town employees and officials are
hereby authorized to erect signs giving notice of the above prohibition.
   (D)   Any person found in violation of this section shall be fined an amount
not to exceed $500 and may be sentenced to a term of not to exceed 30 days in
jail.
(1990 Code, § 11-1-19)  (Ord. 02-2003, passed 11-13-2003; Ord. 01-2017, passed
4-13-2017)
§ 130.20  WATER; FLOW UPON STREETS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to willfully or negligently permit or
cause the escape or flow of water in such quantity as to cause flooding, or to
impede vehicular or pedestrian traffic, to create a hazardous condition to such
traffic or to cause damage to the public streets of the town.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to willfully or negligently permit or
cause the escape or flow of irrigation water in such quantity as to cause
flooding, to impede vehicular or pedestrian traffic, to create a hazardous
condition to such traffic or to cause damage to the public streets of the town
through the failure or neglect to properly operate or maintain any irrigation
structure, delivery ditch or waste ditch in which said person has a vested
right or interest or through the willful or negligent failure of said person to
accept irrigation water after it has been ordered by him or her.
(1990 Code, § 11-1-20)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.21  WINDOW SILLS TO BE KEPT CLEAR.
   It is unlawful for any person to place or keep on any window sill, porch or
other projection above the first story of any building abutting on any sidewalk
any article which might do injury by falling upon any person on the sidewalk in
front of such building, unless said article be securely fastened or protected
by screens.
(1990 Code, § 11-1-21)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.22  TRAILER COURTS AND TRAILER COACHES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person or persons to use for dwelling purposes
within the town any house trailer, semitrailer or similar vehicle, except on
ground approved by the town for such purposes or upon a duly licensed trailer
camp ground as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any owner, lessee or proprietor of land situated
within the corporate limits to permit or allow the use of said land for the
parking of trailers without first securing a license from the Clerk. No license
shall be issued except upon the appropriate town officer’s certificate that
said premises are provided with proper and adequate facilities for garbage and
sewage disposal.
   (C)   Application for license shall be made in writing and accompanied by
the certificate provided by the Clerk. The license fee for the operation of any
such camp or court shall be $10 per year, payable in advance.
(1990 Code, § 11-1-22)  Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   ADDRESS POSTING
      
151.   BUILDING PROVISIONS
      
152.   HISTORIC PRESERVATION
      
153.   RV PARK
      
154.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
155.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
156.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150:  ADDRESS POSTING
Section
   
150.01   Property owner to post address
§ 150.01  PROPERTY OWNER TO POST ADDRESS.
   Every property within the town boundaries that includes any type of
structure on the property, as determined by the town, shall have posted on the
property that property’s address, consistent with the town address list and on
the town-supplied address plaques. Said posting shall be visible from the
street fronting the property with the naked eye, as determined by the town. It
shall be the property owner’s responsibility to obtain the town supplied
address plaque and to maintain such posting.
(Ord. 02-2010, passed 5-13-2010)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 151:  BUILDING PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Adoption of International Building Code
   
151.02   Conformance to zoning ordinance
   
151.03   Building permit fees
   
151.04   Building Official
   
151.05   Plumbing Code
   
151.06   Arizonans with Disabilities Act
   
151.07   Mechanical Code
   
151.08   Uniform Code for Abatement of Dangerous Buildings
   
151.09   International Residential Code
   
151.10   International Existing Building Code
   
151.11   Adoption of Uniform Technical Standards
Street Improvements for Non-Subdivisions
   
151.25   Definitions
   
151.26   Street improvements required
   
151.27   Approval of street improvement plans
   
151.28   Street improvements constructed prior to development; assessment
policy
   
151.29   Assessment procedure
   
151.30   Collecting unpaid assessments
   
151.31   Exemptions
   
151.32   Fees
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01  ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE.
   That certain code entitled “International Building Code, 2009 Edition”,
together with all appendices thereto, published by the International Code
Council, Inc., is hereby adopted as the Building Code of the town, for
regulating the erection, construction, enlargement, replacement, alteration,
repair, moving, removal, demolition, conversion, occupancy, equipment, use,
height, area and maintenance of all buildings and structures in the town, and
said code made a part of this chapter the same as though said code was
specifically set forth in full herein. At least three copies of said code and
appendices shall be filed in the office of the Town Clerk and kept available
for use and inspection.
(Ord. 04-2010, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 151.02  CONFORMANCE TO ZONING ORDINANCE.
   Whenever a building permit is issued and a building inspection performed,
such building must conform to the provisions of the zoning ordinance in
addition to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 04-2010, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 151.03  BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   Building permit fees, as provided for in the codes of the town, adopted by
this chapter shall be set from time to time by resolution of the Council.
(Ord. 04-2010, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 151.04  BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   The Building Official and administrative authority, as such may be
referenced in any section of this chapter for all matters pertaining to any
building, plumbing, electrical or any other inspections, shall be vested in the
office of the Building Inspector or such other person as the Town Manager may
appoint.
(1990 Code, § 7-7)
§ 151.05  PLUMBING CODE.
   That certain code entitled “International Plumbing Code, 2009 Edition”,
together with all appendices thereto, published by the International Code
Council, Inc., is hereby adopted as the Plumbing Code of the town, for
regulating the installation, alteration and maintenance of plumbing systems in
the town, and made a part of this chapter the same as though said code was
specifically set forth in full herein. At least three copies of said code and
appendices shall be filed in the office of the Town Clerk and kept available
for use and inspection.
(Ord. 04-2010, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 151.06  ARIZONANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT.
   That certain document entitled “Arizonans with Disabilities Act”, as set
forth in A.R.S. Title 41, Chapter 9, Article 3, and its implementing rules,
including the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101
et seq., accessibility guidelines for buildings and facilities, is hereby
adopted as the Arizonans with Disabilities Act and implementing rules of the
town for regulating disabled persons’ accessibility requirements in the town,
and said document made a part of this chapter the same as though said document
was set forth in full herein. At least three copies of said document shall be
filed in the office of the Town Clerk and kept available for use and
inspection.
(Ord. 04-2010, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 151.07  MECHANICAL CODE.
   That certain code entitled “International Mechanical Code, 2009 Edition”,
together with all appendices thereto, published by the International Code
Council, Inc., is hereby adopted as the Mechanical Code of the town, for
regulating and controlling the design, construction, installation, qualities of
materials, location, operation and maintenance or use of heating, ventilating,
cooling, refrigeration systems, incinerators and other miscellaneous heat-
producing appliances within the town’s jurisdiction, and made a part of this
chapter the same as though said code was specifically set forth in full herein.
At least three copies of said code and appendices shall be filed in the office
of the Town Clerk and kept available for use and inspection.
(Ord. 04-2010, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 151.08  UNIFORM CODE FOR ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS.
   That certain code entitled “Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous
Buildings, 1997 Edition”, together with all appendices thereto, published by
the International Conference of Building Officials, is hereby adopted as the
Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings of the town for regulating
buildings or structures which from any cause endanger the life, limb, health,
morals, property, safety or welfare of the general public or their occupants,
and made a part of this chapter the same as though said code was set forth in
full herein. At least three copies of said code and appendices shall be filed
in the office of the Town Clerk and kept available for public use and
inspection.
(Ord. 04-2010, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 151.09  INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE.
   That certain code entitled “International Residential Code, 2009 Edition”,
together with all appendices thereto, published by the International Code
Council, Inc., is hereby adopted as the Residential Code of the town, for
regulating erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, moving,
removal, demolition, conversion, occupancy, equipment, use, height, area and
maintenance of all R-3 occupancies in the town, and made a part of this chapter
the same as though said code was specifically set forth in full herein. At
least three copies of said code and appendices shall be filed in the office of
the Town Clerk and kept available for use and inspection.
(Ord. 04-2010, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 151.10  INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE.
   That certain code entitled “International Existing Building Code, 2009
Edition”, together with all appendices thereto, published by the International
Code Council, Inc., is hereby adopted as the existing Building Code of the
town, for regulating and governing the repair, alteration, change of occupancy,
addition and relocation of all existing buildings, including historic buildings
in the town, providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefor; and made a part of this chapter the same as though said code was
specifically set forth in full herein. At least three copies of said code and
appendices shall be filed in the office of the Town Clerk and kept available
for use and inspection.
(Ord. 04-2010, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 151.11  ADOPTION OF UNIFORM TECHNICAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Maricopa Association of Governments Uniform Standard Specifications
and Details for Public Works Construction. That certain document entitled the
Maricopa Association of Governments Uniform Standard Specifications and Details
for Public Works Construction, 2018 Revision to the 2015 Edition, is hereby
adopted as “The Maricopa Association of Governments Uniform Standard
Specifications and Details for Public Works Construction of the Town of
Clifton” And made a part of this chapter as though said standards were
specifically set forth in full herein.  At least three copies of said standards
shall be on file in the Office of the Town Clerk, and shall be kept available
for public use and inspection.
   (B)   The Arizona Department of Water Resources Flood Mitigation Section
State Standard for Stormwater Detention/Retention. That certain document
entitled the Arizona Department of Water Resources Flood Mitigation Section
State Standard for Stormwater Detention/Retention, together with appendices
thereto, is hereby adopted as “The Arizona Department of Water Resources Flood
Mitigation Section State Standard for Stormwater Detention/Retention of the
Town of Clifton” and made a part of this chapter as though said standards were
specifically set forth in full herein.  At least three copies of said standards
shall be on file in the Office of the Town Clerk, and shall be kept available
for public use and inspection.
   (C)   The Pima County Wastewater Reclamation Engineering Design Standards.
That certain document entitled the Pima County Wastewater Reclamation
Engineering Design Standards, 2016 Edition, together with appendices thereto,
is hereby adopted as “The Pima County Wastewater Reclamation Engineering Design
Standards of the Town of Clifton” and made a part of this chapter as though
said standards were specifically set forth in full herein. At least three
copies of said standards shall be on file in the Office of the Town Clerk, and
shall be kept available for public use and inspection.
   (D)   The Pima County Wastewater Reclamation Standard Specifications and
Details for Construction. That certain document entitled the Pima County
Wastewater Reclamation Standard Specifications and Details for Construction,
2016 Edition, is hereby adopted as “The Pima County Wastewater Reclamation
Standard Specifications and Details for Construction of the Town of Clifton”
and made a part of this chapter as though said standards were specifically set
forth in full herein. At least three copies of said standards shall be on file
in the Office of the Town Clerk, and shall be kept available for public use and
inspection.
   (E)   The Tucson Water Standard Specifications and Details. That certain
document entitled the Tucson Water Standard Specifications and Details, 2017
Edition, together with appendices thereto, is hereby adopted as “The Tucson
Water Standard Specifications and Details of the Town of Clifton” and made a
part of this chapter as though said standards were specifically set forth in
full herein. At least three copies of said standards shall be on file in the
Office of the Town Clerk, and shall be kept available for public use and
inspection.
   (F)   Deviations from uniform technical standards. Deviations from the
uniform technical standards may be approved by the Town Engineer if the Town
Engineer finds the deviation:
      (1)   Will exceed the technical standards;
      (2)   Is substantially equivalent to the technical standards; or
      (3)   Is consistent with the purpose of the technical standards and will
result in safe construction under the circumstances.
(Ord. 01-2019, passed 2-14-2018)
STREET IMPROVEMENTS FOR NON-SUBDIVISIONS
§ 151.25  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COST.  The actual cost of:
      (1)   Construction of the public street improvements as determined by the
construction contract price;
      (2)   Inspection and permit fees;
      (3)   Engineering fees required for the preparation of plans and
specifications; and
      (4)   Other incidental fees required to complete the improvements.
   DEVELOPMENT.  The construction of non-subdivision residential, commercial or
industrial buildings or structures or major additions or alterations to
existing buildings or structures and includes new buildings or structures on
property having existing buildings or structures situated on such property.
   MAJOR ADDITION OR ALTERATION.  Any addition or alteration to an existing
building hereafter made where the addition or alteration or subtotal of all
additions or alterations combined increases total floor area of the building by
25%.
   OWNER.  The individual, corporation, partnership, trust or other legal
entity that owns property adjacent to the street right-of-way.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  Land which by deed, conveyance, agreement, easement,
dedication, usage or process of law is reserved or dedicated to the general
public for street, highway, alley, public utility, pedestrian walkway, bikeway
or drainage purposes.
   STREET IMPROVEMENT.  Includes, but is not limited to, asphaltic concrete
surfacing, aggregate base, curb and gutters, valley gutters, concrete
sidewalks, storm drainage facilities, irrigation tiling, street lights, traffic
control devices and landscaping.
   STREETS.  The full width of the right-of-way of any road, street, highway,
alley, land or pedestrian walkway whether or not said road, street, highway,
alley, land or pedestrian walkway has been improved or accepted for maintenance
by the town.
(1990 Code, § 7-6-1)
§ 151.26  STREET IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   At the time of development of property within the town, the owner of
the property shall construct street improvements within and adjacent to such
property.
   (B)   The costs of all street improvements shall be the full responsibility
of the owner of the property.
   (C)   If, in the opinion of the Town Engineer, the installation of street
improvements would be a hardship on the town or would not be feasible from an
engineering standpoint, the installation of improvements may be temporarily
deferred provided a cash bond, irrevocable letter of credit or similar
instrument approved by the Town Attorney is filed with the town for the cost of
the improvements. Estimated costs of the improvements shall be established by
the owner’s engineer and reviewed and approved by the Town Engineer.
   (D)   If the Council determines that street improvements within or adjacent
to the property are necessary before the development of the property, the
Council may order street improvements to be constructed by the town as provided
in §
151.28.
(1990 Code, § 7-6-2)
§ 151.27  APPROVAL OF STREET IMPROVEMENT PLANS.
   (A)   The owner of property intended to be developed shall submit the street
improvement plans to the town for approval.
   (B)   No building permit shall be issued until the street improvement plans
have been approved by the Town Engineer.
   (C)   Street improvements shall be constructed in accordance with the plans
approved by the Town Engineer.
   (D)   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued until street improvements
are constructed in accordance with the approved plan.
(1990 Code, § 7-6-3)
§ 151.28  STREET IMPROVEMENTS CONSTRUCTED PRIOR TO DEVELOPMENT; ASSESSMENT
POLICY.
   When the Council has determined that streets within the town are necessary
before development of the property, the Council may order street improvements
to be constructed by the town at the town’s expense; such expense shall be
assessed against the adjacent property subject to the following:
   (A)   The assessment of property, if adjacent arterial streets are involved,
shall not exceed the cost of improving more than one-half of the width or more
than one thousand lineal feet of such adjacent arterial street, except that if
at the time of assessment any parcel of land is being used for single-family
residential use and the width of such does not exceed 200 lineal feet, such
property shall not be assessed greater than one-half the cost of the average
residential street within the town;
   (B)   The assessment of property shall not exceed the actual cost incurred
by the town at the time of construction; and
   (C)   When it is necessary to improve a full street and sufficient right-of-
way is not available, the Town Engineer may obtain the right-of-way upon terms
that are just to the property owner and the town, including assumption by the
town of all or part of the cost of street improvements.
(1990 Code, § 7-6-4)
§ 151.29  ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Council, at a public hearing, shall determine the necessity of
street improvements if the cost thereof is to be assessed against the adjacent
property.
   (B)   Notice of said hearing shall be given to the owners, and other
affected persons who would be assessed for the cost improvements by regular
mail no less than ten days prior to the date of the hearing.
   (C)   Notice of hearing shall contain:
      (1)   A description of the proposed street improvement;
      (2)   The estimated cost of assessment for each affected parcel; and
      (3)   The date, time and place that the Council intends to consider the
necessity of street improvements and adoption of the resolution of intention.
Notice shall also be published in accordance with the provisions of A.R.S. §
39-204 and shall also be conspicuously posted along the line of the proposed
improvement at least ten days prior to the hearing on necessity of the
improvements.
   (D)   The property owners and any other persons directly interested in the
proposed street improvements or the assessment may prior to the time fixed for
the hearing, file in the office of the Town Clerk, a written objection briefly
specifying the grounds for objection.
   (E)   At the time of public hearing, the Council shall hear and pass upon
any objections to the proposed improvements, and its decision shall be final
and conclusive. It may modify the extent of the proposed improvements and
proceed without the necessity for republishing, reposting and remailing new
notices.
   (F)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Council may pass its resolution
of intention directing that plans, specification and estimates of the cost and
expenses of the proposed improvements be prepared by the Town Engineer and
filed with the Town Clerk in order that a call for sealed bids be made.
   (G)   Upon completion of the improvements, the Council shall by resolution,
at a public hearing, determine the cost of the improvements and assess against
the properties adjacent to the street improvement, the total amount of the
costs and expenses of the work in accordance with §
151.28.
      (1)   Notice of this public hearing shall be given to the property owner,
and other affected persons who would be assessed for the cost of improvements,
by regular mail at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing.
      (2)   This notice shall contain:
         (a)   A description of the street improvement; and
         (b)   The amount of the proposed assessment for each affected parcel
of property.
   (H)   The property owners and any other persons, directly interested in the
street improvements or in the assessment, who have any objection to the
legality of the assessment or to any of the previous proceedings connected
therewith or who claim that the work has not been performed according to the
contract, may, prior to the time fixed for the hearing, file in the office of
the Town Clerk, a written notice briefly specifying the grounds for objection.
At the time fixed for hearing, the Council shall hear and rule upon the
objections. The decision of the Council shall be final and conclusive as to all
errors, informalities and irregularities which the Council might have remedied
or avoided at any time during the progress of the proceedings.
   (I)   The Council’s resolution shall provide that any assessments remaining
unpaid shall be paid prior to or at the time of the development of the assessed
property. When, at the time of the assessment, a property is zoned for
agricultural or single family use “development” of the assessed property shall
not be considered to occur unless the property has a change in use or purpose.
   (J)   A resolution declaring the assessment and describing the properties
against which the assessments are imposed shall be recorded in the office of
the County Recorder. When so recorded, the amount so assessed shall be a lien
upon the properties assessed.
   (K)   Any assessments made under this section shall abate if the property
has not been developed within ten years of the assessment.
(1990 Code, § 7-6-5)
§ 151.30  COLLECTING UNPAID ASSESSMENTS.
   At the time of development of property previously assessed, if amounts to be
repaid remain unpaid the Council shall collect the amounts of such improvements
as county taxes are collected. All statutes providing for the collection of
state and county taxes, including collection of delinquent taxes and sale of
property for non-payment of taxes, are applicable to the assessments provided
for in this subchapter.
(1990 Code, § 7-6-6)
§ 151.31  EXEMPTIONS.
   Street improvements otherwise required by this subchapter shall not be
required as follows.
   (A)   Street improvements shall not be required where the construction,
alteration or addition consists solely of installation or replacement of
mechanical equipment.
   (B)   Street improvements shall not be required where additions or
alterations to a building do not increase the floor area of the building by
more than 25% of the original building before the addition or alteration is
started. Whenever the subtotal of all alterations and additions exceeds 25% of
the determined original floor area, street improvements shall be required. Each
and every addition or alteration shall be added to the other to determine the
applicable percentage.
(1990 Code, § 7-6-7)
§ 151.32  FEES.
   (A)   There shall be a plan review fee adopted by resolution of the Council
for review of plans submitted by an owner for street improvements under this
subchapter.
   (B)   All street improvements shall be inspected. The owner shall pay the
actual costs of all inspections required by the town.
      (1)   Prior to issuance of a building permit, the owner shall deposit
with the town an amount of money, as determined by the Public Works Director
equal to the estimated cost of making the inspections.
      (2)   If the actual cost of making the inspections is less than the
amount deposited by the owner, the balance shall be returned to the owner. If
the actual cost of making the inspections is greater than the estimated cost of
making the inspections, the owner shall pay the difference to the town.
(1990 Code, § 7-6-8)
CHAPTER 152:  HISTORIC PRESERVATION
Section
   
152.01   Purpose and nature of chapter
   
152.02   Relation to the Town General Plan
   
152.03   Definitions
   
152.04   Historic Preservation Commission
   
152.05   Designation of landmarks or Historic Districts
   
152.06   Certificate of appropriateness for alteration, demolition or new
construction affecting landmarks or Historic Districts
   
152.07   Criteria for approval of a certificate of appropriateness
   
152.08   Certificate of appropriateness application procedure
   
152.09   Hardship criteria
   
152.10   Hardship application procedure
   
152.11   Maintenance and repair required
   
152.12   Appeals
   
152.13   Fees
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01  PURPOSE AND NATURE OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   It is hereby declared as a matter of public policy that the
protection, enhancement and perpetuation of landmarks and Historic Districts is
necessary to promote the economic, cultural, educational and general welfare of
the public.
   (B)   Inasmuch as the identity of a people is founded on its past, and
inasmuch as the town has many significant historic, architectural and cultural
resources which constitute its heritage, this chapter is intended to:
      (1)   Protect and enhance the landmarks and Historic Districts which
represent distinctive elements of the town’s historic, architectural and
cultural heritage;
      (2)   Foster civic pride in accomplishments of the past;
      (3)   Protect and enhance the town’s attractiveness to visitors and the
support and stimulus to the economy thereby provided; and
      (4)   Ensure the harmonious, orderly and efficient growth and development
of the town.
(Ord. 01-96, passed 3-14-1996)
§ 152.02  RELATION TO THE TOWN GENERAL PLAN.
   The enforcement of, amendments to, and the administration of this chapter
shall be accomplished in accordance with the recommendations contained in the
Town General Plan as developed and amended on a regular basis by the Planning
and Zoning Commission and the Town Council.
(Ord. 01-96, passed 3-14-1996)
§ 152.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERATION.  Any construction or change of the exterior of a building,
object, site or structure or of an interior space designated a landmark. For
buildings, objects or structures, ALTERATION shall include but is not limited
to, the changing of roofing or siding materials; changing, eliminating or
adding doors, door frames, windows, window frames, shutters, fences, railings,
porches, balconies, swings or other ornamentation and the changing of paint
color. ALTERATION shall not include ordinary repair and maintenance as defined
below.
   BUILDING.  A structure created to shelter any form of human activity, such
as a house, barn, church, hotel or similar structure. BUILDING may refer to an
historically related complex, such as a courthouse and jail or a house and
barn.
   CEMETERY.  Any site which contains at least one burial, marked or previously
marked, considered a dedicated cemetery under the state statutes, even though
suffering neglect or abuse.
   CONSTRUCTION.  The act of adding an addition to a structure or the erection
of a new principal or accessory structure on a lot or property, that requires a
building permit.
   CONTRIBUTING SIGNIFICANCE.  A classification applied to a building, site,
structure or object within a Historic District signifying that it contributes
generally to the qualities that give the community cultural, historic,
architectural or archeological distinction, but without having exceptional
significance as defined below.
   DEMOLITION.  Any act or process that partially or totally destroys a
landmark or a structure within a Historic District.
   DESIGN GUIDELINE.  A specific type of design criteria approved by the
Commission at the time of designation of a landmark, Historic District,
Historic Landscape District or Urban Conservation District and to be used in
conjunction with other design criteria in the ordinance in reviewing
alteration, construction, removal or demolition.
   EXCEPTIONAL SIGNIFICANCE.  A classification applied to a building, site,
structure or object signifying the individual contribution the resource brings
to the community in representation of the qualities that give the community
cultural, historic, architectural or archeological distinction. EXCEPTIONAL
SIGNIFICANCE can be applied to either a “Landmark” or to those resources within
a “Historic District” which are of individual importance.
   EXTERIOR ARCHITECTURAL APPEARANCE.  The architectural character and general
composition of the exterior of a structure, including, but not limited to, the
kind, color, and texture of the building material and the type, design and
character of all architectural details and elements, including, but not limited
to, windows, doors, walls, roofs, overhangs, signs and yards and/or open
spaces.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT.  An area with definable boundaries designated as a
“Historic District” by the Town Council and in which a substantial number of
properties, sites, structures or objects have a high degree of cultural,
historic, architectural or archaeological significance and integrity, many of
which may qualify as landmarks, and which may also have within its boundaries
other properties, sites, structures or objects which, while not of such
cultural, historic, architectural or archaeological significance to qualify as
landmarks, nevertheless contribute to the overall visual characteristics or the
significant properties, sites, structures or objects located within it.
   INTERIOR ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN.  The architectural character and general
composition of the interior of a structure, including, but not limited to, room
design and configuration, materials and the type, pattern and character of all
architectural details and elements, including, but not limited to staircases,
doors, hardware, moldings, trim, plaster work, light fixtures and wall
coverings.
   LANDMARK.  A property, site, structure or object that is individually
designated by the Town Council that is worthy of rehabilitation, restoration
and preservation because of its historic, cultural, architectural or
archaeological exceptional significance to the town.
   NON-CONTRIBUTING.  A designation applied to a site, structure or object
within a Historic District indicating that it is not a representation of the
qualities that give the Historic District cultural, historic, architectural or
archaeological significance as embodies in the criteria for designating a
Historic District.
   ORDINARY MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR.  Regular, customary or usual care,
reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing building, structure or
object, for the purposes of preserving said property and maintaining it in safe
and sanitary condition.
   PROPERTY.  Land and improvements identified as a separate lot for purposes
of the subdivision and zoning regulations of the Town of Clifton.
   REPAIR.  Any change that is not alteration, construction removal or
demolition.
   STRUCTURE.  Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires a
permanent or semi-permanent location on or in the ground, including, without
limitation, buildings, garages, fences, gazebos, advertising signs, billboards,
antennas, satellite sending or receiving dishes, and swimming pools.
(Ord. 01-96, passed 3-14-1996)
§ 152.04  HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION.
   There is hereby created a commission to be known as the Town of Clifton
Historic Preservation Commission.
   (A)   It is intended that the Commission shall consist of five members to be
appointed by the Town Council.
      (1)   All members of the Commission shall have a demonstrated interest,
experience or knowledge in at least one of the following: history,
architectural history, architecture, historic interiors, historic architecture,
planning, archeology/historic archeology, real estate/historic preservation
law, or other preservation-related field. The Council may appoint the most
qualified individual if not able to otherwise fulfill this requirement.
      (2)   To the extent available in the community, at least two members
shall be professionals from the disciplines of architecture, history,
architectural history, planning, archeology or related historic preservation
disciplines such as cultural, geography or cultural anthropology.
      (3)   Ex officio member: Planning Director or his or her designee.
      (4)   If a field described in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) above are not
represented by a Commission member, the Commission must obtain expertise in the
field when considering national register nominations and other actions that
will impact properties that are normally evaluated by a professional in that
field.
   (B)   Commission members shall serve for a term of three years, with the
exception of the initial term of two of the five members which shall be one
year, two of which shall be two years, and one which shall be three years.
Commission members may be reappointed to serve consecutive terms following the
initial term. Vacancies shall be filled by appointment by the Commission.
Vacancies shall be filled within 60 days.
   (C)   The Chairperson and Vice Chairperson of the Commission shall be
elected by and from the members of the Commission.
   (D)   The responsibilities of the Commission shall include:
      (1)   Promulgation of rules and regulations as necessary for the conduct
of its business;
      (2)   Review of criteria for the identification of significant historic,
architectural and cultural landmarks and for the delineation of Historic
Districts;
      (3)   Review existing surveys of significant historic/architectural, and
cultural landmarks and Historic Districts within the town and periodically
update the survey;
      (4)   Recommendation to the Town Council the designation of identified
structures or resources as landmarks and Historic Districts;
      (5)   Acceptance on behalf of the town government of the donation of
facade easements and development rights; the making of recommendations to the
Town Council concerning the acquisition of facade easements or other interests
in real property as necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter;
      (6)   Increasing public awareness of the value of historic, cultural and
architectural preservation by developing and participating in public education
programs;
      (7)   Making recommendations to the Town Council concerning the
utilization of state, federal or private funds to promote the preservation of
landmarks and Historic Districts within the town;
      (8)   Recommending acquisition of a landmark structure by the town where
its preservation is essential to the purposes of this chapter and where private
preservation is not feasible;
      (9)   Approval or disapproval of applications for certificates of
appropriateness pursuant to this chapter;
      (10)   Cooperate with and assist the State Preservation Officer in his or
her activities which relate to the town; and
      (11)   Such other responsibilities are required by state and federal laws
or regulations.
   (E)   The Commission shall meet four times per year, but meetings may be
held at any time on the written request of any two of the Commission members or
on the call of the Chairperson or the Mayor. All meetings shall comply with the
Open Meeting Law of the state.
   (F)   A quorum for the transaction of business shall consist of three of the
Commission’s members. Final decisions may be made by a majority of the members
present.
(Ord. 01-96, passed 3-14-1996)
§ 152.05  DESIGNATION OF LANDMARKS OR HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The Commission may recommend to the Town Council that an individual
property be designated as a landmark, if it:
      (1)   Possesses special character or historic or aesthetic interest or
value as part of the cultural, political, economic or social history of the
locality, region, state or nation;
      (2)   Is identified with historic personages;
      (3)   Embodies the distinguishing characteristics of an architectural
style;
      (4)   Is the work of a designer whose work has significantly influenced
an age; or
      (5)   Because of a unique location or singular physical characteristic,
represents an established and familiar visual feature of the neighborhood.
   (B)   (1)   The Commission may recommend to the Town Council that a group of
properties be designated as a Historic District if it:
         (a)   Contains several properties which meet one or more of the
criteria for designation of a landmark;
         (b)   By reason of possessing such qualities, it constitutes a
district section of the town; and
         (c)   The majority owner(s) of the properties concur with the
designation.
      (2)   The boundaries of each Historic District designated henceforth
shall be specified in detail and shall be filed, in writing, in the Town
Clerk’s office for public inspection.
   (C)   Notice of a proposed designation shall be sent by registered mail to
the owner(s) of the property proposed for designation, either by the Commission
or by the owner, describing the property proposed and announcing a public
hearing by the Commission to consider the designation. Where the proposed
designation involves so many owners that individual notice is infeasible,
notice may instead be published at least once in a newspaper of general
circulation at least 15 days prior to the date of public hearing. Once the
Commission has issued notice of a proposed designation, no building permits
shall be issued by the Building Inspector until the Commission has made its
decision.
   (D)   The Commission shall hold a public hearing prior to designate on of
any landmark or Historic District. The testimony or documentary evidence at the
hearing will become part of a record regarding the historic, architectural or
cultural importance of the proposed landmark or Historic District. The record
may also contain staff reports, public comments or other evidence offered
outside of the hearing.
   (E)   The Commission shall forward notice of each proposed property
designated as a landmark and of the boundaries of each designated Historic
District to the Town Council for final designation, and subsequently to the
office of the County Clerk for recordation, as appropriate.
(Ord. 01-96, passed 3-14-1996)
§ 152.06  CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR ALTERATION, DEMOLITION OR NEW
CONSTRUCTION AFFECTING LANDMARKS OR HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
   No person shall carry out any exterior alteration, restoration,
reconstruction, demolition, new construction or moving of a landmark, or
property within a Historic District, nor shall any person make any material
change in the appearance of such a property, its light fixtures, signs,
sidewalks, fences, steps, paving or other exterior elements visible from a
public street or alley which affect the appearance and cohesiveness of the
historic landmark or Historic District, without first obtaining a certificate
of appropriateness from the Historic Preservation Commission.
(Ord. 01-96, passed 3-14-1996)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.07  CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL OF A CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   (1)   In passing upon an application for a certificate of
appropriateness, the Historic Preservation Commission shall not consider
changes to interior spaces, unless they are open to the public, or to
architectural features that are not visible from a public street or alley.
      (2)   The Commission’s decision shall be based upon the following
principles.
         (a)   Properties which contribute to the character of the Historic
District shall be retained, with their historic features altered as little as
possible.
         (b)   Any alteration of existing historic landmark properties shall be
compatible with its historic character. Any alteration of existing properties
within a Historic District shall be compatible with its historic character as
well as with the surrounding district.
         (c)   New construction shall be compatible with the district in which
it is located.
   (B)   In applying the principle of compatibility, the Commission shall
consider the following factors:
      (1)   The general design character and appropriateness to the property of
the proposed alteration or new construction;
      (2)   The scale of proposed alteration or new construction in relation to
the property itself, surrounding properties and the neighborhood;
      (3)   Texture, materials and color and their relation to similar features
of other properties in the neighborhood;
      (4)   Visual compatibility with surrounding properties, including
proportion of the property’s front facade, proportion and arrangement of
windows and other openings with the facade, roof shape and the rhythm of
spacing of properties on streets, including setback; and
      (5)   The importance of historic, architectural or other features to the
significance of the property.
   (C)   As a guide to rehabilitation work, the Commission shall utilize the
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation (1990 Edition).
(Ord. 01-96, passed 3-14-1996)
§ 152.08  CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Prior to the commencement of any work requiring a certificate of
appropriateness, the owner shall file an application for such a certificate
with the Historic Preservation Commission.
   (B)   The application shall contain:
      (1)   Name, address and telephone number of applicant;
      (2)   Location and photographs of property;
      (3)   Elevation drawings of proposed changes, if available;
      (4)   Perspective drawings, including relationship to adjacent
properties, if available;
      (5)   Where the proposal includes signs of lettering, a scale drawing
showing the type of lettering to be used, all dimensions and colors, a
description of materials to be used, method of illumination and a plan showing
the sign’s location on the property; and
      (6)   Any other information which the Commission may deem necessary in
order to visualize the proposed work.
   (C)   No building permit shall be issued for such proposed work until a
certificate of appropriateness has first been issued by the Historic
Preservation Commission. The certificate of appropriateness required by this
chapter shall be in addition to and not in lieu of any building permit that may
be required by any other ordinance or the town. The Commission shall approve,
deny or approve the permit with modifications within 21 days from receipt of
the completed application. The Commission may hold a public hearing on the
application at which an opportunity will be provided for proponents and
opponents of the application to present their views.
   (D)   All decisions of the Commission shall be in writing. A copy shall be
sent to the applicant by registered mail and copy filed with the Town Clerk’s
Office for public inspection. The Commission’s decision shall state the reasons
for denying or modifying any application.
(Ord. 01-96, passed 3-14-1996)
§ 152.09  HARDSHIP CRITERIA.
   (A)   An applicant whose certificate of appropriateness for a proposed
demolition has been denied may apply for relief on the grounds of hardship. In
order to prove the existence of hardship, the applicant shall establish that:
      (1)   The property is incapable of earning a reasonable return,
regardless of whether that return represents the most profitable return
possible;
      (2)   The property cannot be adapted for any other use, whether by the
current owner or by a purchase, which could result in a reasonable return; and
      (3)   Efforts to find a purchaser interested in acquiring the property
and preserving it have failed.
   (B)   An applicant whose certificate of appropriateness for a proposed
alteration has been denied may apply for relief on the grounds of hardship. In
order to prove the existence of hardship, the applicant shall establish that
the property is incapable of earning a reasonable return, regardless of whether
that return represents the most profitable return possible.
(Ord. 01-96, passed 3-14-1996)
§ 152.10  HARDSHIP APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   After receiving written notification from the Commission of the denial
of a certificate of appropriateness, an applicant may commence the hardship
process. No building permit or demolition permit shall be issued unless the
Commission makes a finding that a hardship exists.
   (B)   The Commission may hold a public hearing on the hardship application
at which an opportunity will be provided for proponents and opponents of the
application to present their views.
   (C)   The applicant shall consult in good faith with the Commission, local
preservation groups and interested parties in a diligent effort to seek an
alternative that will result in preservation of the property.
   (D)   All decisions of the Commission shall be in writing. A copy shall be
sent to the applicant by registered mail and a copy filed with the Town Clerk’s
office for public inspection. The Commission’s decision shall state the reasons
for granting or denying the hardship application.
(Ord. 01-96, passed 3-14-1996)
§ 152.11  MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR REQUIRED.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the ordinary
maintenance and repair of any exterior architectural feature of a landmark or
property within a Historic District which does not involve a change in design,
material, color or outward appearance.
   (B)   No owner or person with an interest in real property designated as a
landmark or included within a Historic District shall permit the property to
fall into a serious state of disrepair so as to result in the deterioration of
any exterior architectural feature which would, in the judgment of the Historic
Preservation Commission, produce a detrimental effect upon the character of the
Historic District as a whole or the life and character of the property itself.
   (C)   Examples of such deterioration include:
      (1)   Deterioration of exterior walls or other vertical supports;
      (2)   Deterioration of roofs or other horizontal members;
      (3)   Deterioration of exterior chimneys;
      (4)   Deterioration or crumbling of exterior stucco or mortar;
      (5)   Ineffective waterproofing of exterior walls, roofs or foundations,
including broken windows or doors; and
      (6)   Deterioration of any feature so as to create a hazardous condition
which could be lead to the claim that demolition is necessary for the public
safety.
(Ord. 01-96, passed 3-14-1996)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.12  APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Historic Preservation Commission
relating to hardship or a certificate of appropriateness may, within 15 days of
the decision, file a written application with the Town Council for review of
the decision.
(Ord. 01-96, passed 3-14-1996)
§ 152.13  FEES.
   No fees required.
(Ord. 01-96, passed 3-14-1996)
§ 152.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable in accordance with Chapter 1.96 of
the Town Zoning Code.
   (B)   Any person who demolishes, alters, constructs or permits a designated
property to fall into a serious state of disrepair in violation of this chapter
shall be required to restore the property and its site to its appearance prior
to the violation. Any action to enforce this division (B) shall be brought by
the Town Attorney. This civil remedy shall be in addition to and not in lieu of
any criminal prosecution and penalty.
(Ord. 01-96, passed 3-14-1996; Ord. 01-2017, passed 4-13-2017)
CHAPTER 153:  RV PARK
Section
North Clifton RV Park
   
153.01   Park administration and program
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Fees; rules and regulations
   
153.04   Permits
   
153.05   General rules for use, prohibited activities
   
153.06   Dogs to be kept on leash
   
153.07   Adult supervision; time for closing
   
153.08   Unauthorized apparatus, furniture and equipment
   
153.09   Concessions; alcoholic beverages
   
153.10   Signs; advertising; decorative material; solicitation prohibited
   
153.11   Non-pedestrian traffic
   
153.12   Security
   
153.13   Major event insurance; indemnification
   
153.14   Appeal from denial or revocation of permit
NORTH CLIFTON RV PARK
§ 153.01  PARK ADMINISTRATION AND PROGRAM.
   (A)   The town has established public open space, parks, recreational
facilities for the use and enjoyment of its citizens, believing that providing
leisure and human services is necessary to meet significant social, physical,
informational and mental health needs of the community.
   (B)   To the extent possible, the town has provided these areas, facilities
and programs without directly imposing fees for these social and recreational
amenities. In order to continue providing facilities and programs for the use
and enjoyment of the community at a high level of quality, however, it may be
necessary to charge fees to those persons who most directly benefit from
certain recreational facilities, equipment and programs.
   (C)   This chapter, together with other portions of this chapter, as
applicable, establishes the general procedures and guidelines which are to be
used in determining the necessity of fees and charges, setting the amounts of
fees and charges, and administering the recreational facilities, equipment and
programs offered by the town.
   (D)   Insofar as possible, any fees and charges imposed for the use of
facilities or equipment, or for participation in any programs offered by the
town, shall be established at levels that will permit the town to recover its
direct costs in respect to town recreation and human services facilities,
equipment and programs.
   (E)   Refer to appropriate resolutions for schedule of fees and charges.
(Ord. 02-2002, passed 8-8-2002)
§ 153.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.  Any beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation,
infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops, or other ingredients not
drinkable, or any combination of them, including distilled spirits, includes
alcohol, brandy, whiskey, rum, tequila, mescal, gin, absinthe, a compound or
mixture of any of them or of any of them with any vegetable or other substance,
alcohol bitters, bitters containing alcohol, fruits preserved in ardent
spirits, and any alcoholic mixture or preparation, whether patented or
otherwise, which may in sufficient quantities produce intoxication.
   MAJOR EVENT.  Any permitted event or activity determined by the Town Manager
to create potential risks to persons or property which make insurance
reasonably necessary to protect the town against loss.
   NORTH CLIFTON RV PARK or THE RV PARK.  The town facilities located at Frisco
Avenue, Clifton, Arizona, developed for recreational vehicle (“RV”) use.
   NORTH CLIFTON RV PARK RECREATIONAL AREA or the RECREATION AREA.  The town
facilities located at Frisco Avenue, Clifton, Arizona, immediately adjacent to
the RV park and developed for recreation use, including, but not limited to, a
baseball field, children’s play apparatus and area and ramada.
   PARK.  The North Clifton RV park and the North Clifton RV Park Recreation
Area, collectively.
   PERMITTEE.  Any person, or group of persons, as appropriate, to whom a
permit for use of the park facilities has been issued by the town.
   PERSON.  Includes a corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization and any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
   THE TOWN.  The Town of Clifton, Arizona.
   TOWN MANAGER.  The Town of Clifton Town Manager or his or her designee.
(Ord. 02-2002, passed 8-8-2002)
§ 153.03  FEES; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Town Council shall, by resolution and as deemed necessary, set all
park fees and establish usage priorities, including usage priorities between
types and classes of users when such priorities are lawful and, in the judgment
of the Council, promote usage that is beneficial to the town.
   (B)   In the event that the Town Manager determines that the prevailing
schedule of fees and charges or the park permit form is not in the best
interests of the town because of the nature, scope, uniqueness, public benefit
or significance of a particular proposed event, the Town Manager may negotiate
the terms of an agreement between the town and the permittee. All such
negotiated agreements shall be at the direction of the Town Council and subject
to its approval.
   (C)   The Town Manager or Public Works Director may make such reasonable
rules and regulations as are necessary to manage, use, preserve and govern the
park and the activities which are the subject of this chapter.
   (D)   All resolutions passed under this section and copies of all rules and
regulations promulgated by the Town Manager or Public Works Department, shall
be on file at the Town Clerk’s office for public inspection. Copies of such
resolutions and rules and regulations shall also be maintained on file in the
office of the Town Manager, Public Works or recreation facility to which the
resolutions and rules and regulations apply.
(Ord. 02-2002, passed 8-8-2002)
§ 153.04  PERMITS.
   (A)   A permit shall be obtained from the town to reserve the use of any
park facilities and said permit shall give the permittee priority usage of the
reserved facility over any other user.
   (B)   An application for a permit to reserve any part of the park shall be
filed with the town at least one week preceding the requested use date. No
permit shall be valid for dates in excess of six months from the date of the
permit application unless approved by the Town Council. Permits may be renewed
by the town at the Town Manager’s discretion and upon permittee request. When a
permit is approved, the town shall immediately notify the Chief of Police of
the dates of use, type of activity and the number in the group.
   (C)   A permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall allow the permittee to
use the premises only as authorized by the terms of the permit.
   (D)   RV park:
      (1)   Use of all RV park facilities requires a valid permit;
      (2)   No RV park permit exceeding three continuous days shall be issued
to any person, unless otherwise authorized;
      (3)   All persons using the RV park shall register with the designated
town representative upon arrival at the RV park; and
      (4)   Subleasing RV park spaces is prohibited.
   (E)   Notice of cancelled permits must be received by the town 48 hours
prior to the reserved date. The permittee shall be responsible for all charges
established under the permit for failing to provide such notice.
   (F)   A permit shall be revocable by the town for a permittee’s violation of
any park rule, town ordinance or state statute applicable to the use of the
park.
   (G)   The permittee shall accept the premises as is and shall restore the
premises used to the same condition at the expiration of the permit. The
permittee shall make no changes or alterations of the premises without the
prior written approval of the Town Manager. The permittee shall be responsible
for removing litter and trash from the area to suitable trash containers or off
the premises.
   (H)   The permit fee includes the right of the permittee to use electricity
from one electrical outlet 110 volts, 15 amps) in the area specified in the
permit. The fee does not include any special services, equipment, clean-up,
indoor facilities or staff personnel.
   (I)   (1)   The permittee shall agree, in writing, to indemnify the town for
any and all damage to park facilities and property and against all liability
and damage to any person for injuries, including death, whether or not the
damage was caused by the permittee, or by his or her patrons, guests or
invitees.
      (2)   The permittee shall assume full responsibility for damage to the
facility, plants and equipment and shall immediately report any loss or damage
of park property to the town.
   (J)   Organized activities sponsored by the town shall have priority for use
of park facilities. All other organized activities may be permitted at the Town
Manager’s discretion.
   (K)   The Town Manager shall have the authority to make minor additions and
modifications to the permit agreement as may be reasonably necessary to
accommodate particular uses.
(Ord. 02-2002, passed 8-8-2002)
§ 153.05  GENERAL RULES FOR USE; PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   All persons shall comply with all relevant federal, state, county and
town laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
   (B)   The permittee is responsible for obtaining any and all additional
permits required to conduct the event for which the permit provided for in this
chapter is obtained, or for related activities, whether such licenses or
permits are required by town ordinances, regulations or state laws. The
permittee will allow appropriate town, county or state representatives to
conduct any inspections which may be required or deemed necessary in this
regard or to insure the public’s health, safety or general welfare.
   (C)   No person shall erect or place upon the grounds or building any
structure, machine or device upon the grounds or building without the prior
written approval of the Town Manager, who shall consult with other town offices
as deemed necessary. The permittee shall be responsible for obtaining any
permits required in respect to such activity.
   (D)   No person shall erect any engine, motor or other machinery on the
grounds, or use any gasoline, electricity, flammable liquid or charcoal,
without first obtaining approval from the Town Fire Department, except gas,
flammable liquid or charcoal used in designated grills or fire pits for
preparing food.
   (E)   No persons shall bring, exhibit or set off any fireworks or explosives
on the park grounds.
   (F)   No fires shall be allowed except in grills or pits as provided.
   (G)   Camping is prohibited in unauthorized areas.
   (H)   No smoking shall be allowed unless proper containers are provided
therefor.
   (I)   Special equipment and vehicles may be used in the park by town
employees or persons specifically authorized by permit issued by the town.
   (J)   Sale of food, beverage or other items are prohibited unless
specifically authorized by permit issued by the town.
   (K)   Fishing and hunting will be in accordance with applicable laws of the
state and the federal government.
   (L)   (1)   Unlicensed motor vehicles and unlicensed operators thereof shall
not be allowed on park property, and all motor vehicles, except maintenance
vehicles shall use surfaced roadways.
      (2)   This provision shall not apply to:
         (a)   Town employees or others authorized by the town to perform
inspection, repair or maintenance work;
         (b)   Persons providing emergency, search and rescue, medical or
veterinary services; and
         (c)   The use and operation of a motorized wheelchair by a person who
ordinarily uses such equipment.
   (M)   A maximum speed of five mph shall be in effect at all times for motor
vehicles.
   (N)   Parking shall be allowed only in areas specifically reserved for
parking. Overnight parking or camping is prohibited in all recreation area
parking lots.
   (O)   No person shall use any park facility which has been declared “closed”
and which has been so posted by the town.
   (P)   Horses are not allowed on any grass or landscaped areas.
   (Q)   Weapons, including handguns, rifles, shotguns and knives with blades
longer than three and one-half inches are prohibited. This division (Q) does
not apply during special public events when weapons are used for show and
demonstration purposes or during instructional classes.
   (R)   Golfing is not permitted in the park, except in authorized golfing
classes conducted by the recreation program.
   (S)   Model airplanes and boats may be operated only in areas designated for
that purpose by the town.
   (T)   No person shall remove plants, wild animals or natural materials found
in the park.
   (U)   The total number of persons using a park facility shall not exceed the
maximum capacity specified in the permit.
   (V)   No material or object shall be attached to any park facility unless
authorized by permit.
   (W)   Traffic control personnel shall be supplied by the permittee upon
recommendation of the town.
   (X)   Concession rights are prohibited unless specifically authorized by
permit.
   (Y)   A rental charge may be required for use of certain park facilities.
   (Z)   Unlicensed motor vehicles and unlicensed operators shall not be
allowed on park property, and all motor vehicles except maintenance vehicles
shall use surface roadways.
   (AA)   No person shall throw, deposit or place any commercial or non-
commercial handbill in or upon any unattended vehicle parked or located in a
town park.
   (BB)   No littering shall be permitted on park premises.
   (CC)   No amplified music shall be permitted on park premises.
(Ord. 02-2002, passed 8-8-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.06  DOGS TO BE KEPT ON LEASH.
   (A)   The owner or custodian of a dog is responsible for the acts and
conduct of the dog at all times when the dog is in the park. All dogs in or
upon the premises of the park must be currently licensed and shall wear a
collar and license tag.
   (B)   The owner or custodian of a dog must restrain and control the dog at
all times when in the park by securing it with a leash of not more than six
feet in length, except:
      (1)   While the dog is actually participating in a dog show, exhibition
or obedience class, which has been authorized or approved by the town by the
issuance of a written permit; or
      (2)   When the dog is in an enclosed area in the park, which has been
designated by the town as a dog exercise area.
   (C)   LEASH, as used in this chapter, means a chain, rope or strap, made of
leather, fabric or other material, that is: not more than six feet in length;
capable of being fastened to a collar or harness of a dog and used to lead,
restrain and control the dog; and of sufficient strength for those purposes.
   (D)   At all times when a dog is off leash and participating in a dog show,
exhibition or obedience class, as provided in division (B)(1) above:
      (1)   The dog must be accompanied by and under the control of its owner,
trainer or handler, as applicable, who must at all such times have a leash in
his or her possession; and
      (2)   The owner, trainer, handler or the authorized representative of a
club or organization to whom a permit has been issued shall have the permit on
their person at all times and shall present the permit for inspection, upon
request, to any police officer, Town Animal Control Officer, authorized member
of the town staff or a County Animal Control Officer.
   (E)   At all times when a dog is off leash in a designated dog exercise
area, as provided in division (B)(2) above, the dog must be accompanied by and
under the control of its owner or custodian. The owner or custodian must at all
such times have a leash in his or her possession.
   (F)   The owner or person in custody of a dog shall immediately pick up all
dog droppings and deposit them in a park trash receptacle or remove them from
the park.
   (G)   This section shall not apply to dogs assigned to or assisting a law
enforcement agency, or to dogs whose purpose is to aid handicapped persons.
   (H)   A violation of any of the provisions of this section shall be
punishable as Class 3 misdemeanors are punishable under state law.
(Ord. 02-2002, passed 8-8-2002; Ord. 01-2017, passed 4-13-2017)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.07  ADULT SUPERVISION; TIME FOR CLOSING.
   (A)   All children on the park premises by reason of a permit shall be
supervised by an adult.
   (B)   Facilities shall be vacated by 10:00 p.m. unless otherwise authorized
by the permit.
(Ord. 02-2002, passed 8-8-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.08  UNAUTHORIZED APPARATUS, FURNITURE AND EQUIPMENT.
   No apparatus, furniture or equipment shall be placed on a park facility
except by permit. Such items shall be removed from the park before 8:30 a.m. of
the morning following expiration of the permit. Noncompliance shall be grounds
for subsequent rejection of a permit application for use of park facilities.
(Ord. 02-2002, passed 8-8-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.09  CONCESSIONS; ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   The issuing agency shall have the first-right-of-refusal to provide
for the sale or dispensing of any food and beverages, including alcohol if
pursuant to a valid state license, in the park, except when the event is
sponsored by the town.
   (B)   In order to preserve and maintain a quality level of presentation and
service to the community, the service of food, operation of concessions or the
use of a caterer in connection with any permitted use is subject to the prior
written approval of the Town Manager. The permittee shall ensure that any area
used for these activities is restored to the condition it was in at the time
when the permittee took possession.
   (C)   The permittee shall be responsible for insuring that any and all
persons furnishing food in connection with an event for which a permit has been
obtained have complied with all state and local laws and regulations in respect
to such activity. The permittee shall furnish proof of compliance as a
condition of the issuance of a permit.
   (D)   The sale or dispensing of alcoholic beverages shall be prohibited,
unless such activity is permitted under state law.
   (E)   Groups of nine or more persons must obtain a permit to consume
alcoholic beverages prior to its consumption within the RV park.
(Ord. 02-2002, passed 8-8-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.10  SIGNS; ADVERTISING; DECORATIVE MATERIAL; SOLICITATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Advertising matter or programs circulated upon the premises at a
permitted event must relate solely to that event and are subject to the prior
approval of the Town Manager.
   (B)   All decorative or other materials shall be of a noncombustible type or
be suitably treated with a flame retardant approved by the Fire Department.
   (C)   Promotion, publicity or event advertising shall be solely at the
permittee’s expense. References in such materials to the town or to the park
shall only be for the purpose of identifying the location of the event being
promoted. No other use of these references may be made without the prior
written approval of the Town Manager.
   (D)   No collections or donations, whether charitable or otherwise, shall be
made, solicited, attempted or announced on the premises without the prior
approval of the Town Manager. This provision shall not apply to the offer for
sale, or sale of merchandise at retail, incidental to a permitted event.
(Ord. 02-2002, passed 8-8-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.11  NON-PEDESTRIAN TRAFFIC.
   Use of the park is restricted to pedestrians, horses, motor vehicles,
bicycles, recreational vehicles and other vehicles which are properly
registered and insured and are authorized for use on a public highway. Horse-
drawn carriages, carts, skateboards and similar devices are prohibited, unless
approved by the Town Manager in writing for use in a specific event or
attraction.
(Ord. 02-2002, passed 8-8-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.12  SECURITY.
   The permittee shall be responsible for security at any event for which a
permit is issued. Upon request, applicants shall provide the Town Manager with
documentary proof of any and all arrangements made for security. The Town
Manager, with the assistance of the Town Police Department, shall determine
whether the proposed security provisions are adequate for the event. Approved
security provisions shall become conditions of the permit. No permit shall be
issued if, in the judgment of the Town Manager, the proposed security
provisions are inadequate to ensure the health and safety of the participants
and the general public, or if there is insufficient evidence to show that
adequate provisions have been made for security staffing.
(Ord. 02-2002, passed 8-8-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.13  MAJOR EVENT INSURANCE; INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   As a condition of issuing a permit for a major event, the applicant
shall furnish evidence of commercial general liability insurance, issued by a
company and upon forms acceptable to the Town Manager, with minimum limits of
liability of $2,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 annual aggregate. If any
vehicles are used in connection with permit, applicant shall also provide
vehicle liability insurance with limits of liability of $1,000,000 per
occurrence. If any alcoholic beverages are served, applicant must secure and
maintain liquor liability insurance with minimum liability limits of $2,000,000
per occurrence and $2,000,000 annual aggregate. The town and the issuing
agency, if other than the town, shall be named as additional insureds on all
policies and all policies shall be designated as primary. The applicant shall
also provide workers’ compensation insurance, as applicable, in no less than
the statutory minimum amount. All insurance shall be in effect for the entire
period of the event, and any necessary preparation or close down period.
   (B)   If food or beverages are to be served or dispensed at the event,
product liability coverage must be included in the coverage afforded by the
general commercial insurance required by this section.
   (C)   The Town Manager may increase or decrease the amount of insurance
required by this section as a condition of the permit when in the Town
Manager’s professional judgment it is necessary because of the size, type and
character of the proposed event. Certificates of insurance, evidencing
compliance with the requirements of this section, must be filed with the Town
Manager no less than 15 days prior to event for which the permit is issued.
These certificates shall be subject to the approval of the Town Manager, the
Town Attorney and the issuing agency, if other than the town. Failure to comply
with this division (C) constitutes grounds for revocation of the permit. The
permit shall be revoked if, at any time, the Town Manager has reasonable
grounds to believe that a permittee is not in compliance with this section.
   (D)   The insurance requirements of this section shall not apply to weddings
where no food or beverages are to be served, unless the Town Manager, after
consulting with the Town Attorney, determines that the number of persons
attending, the nature of the ceremony, or the use of specific property, things
or devices constitutes a major event.
   (E)   Should any of the insurance required by this section be written on a
claims-made basis, the reporting period for such claims shall extend to two
years following the expiration of the policy.
   (F)   The issuance of a permit under this chapter is conditioned on the
applicant agreeing, in writing, in a form satisfactory to the Town Manager, to
the maximum extent permitted by law, to indemnify, hold harmless and defend the
town, its public officials, volunteers and assigns, and any of its departments,
agencies, officers or employees from any and all damages, claims, demands or
judgments arising out of the event for which the permit is to be issued.
   (G)   Any indemnification and insurance requirement contained in this
section, §
153.03(B) and any general provision developed by the Town Manager may be
modified, eliminated, decreased, increased or added to if after consultation
with, and with the concurrence of the Town Attorney, it is deemed to be
necessary to protect or is deemed to be in the best interest of the town.
(Ord. 02-2002, passed 8-8-2002)
§ 153.14  APPEAL FROM DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   When a permit is denied or revoked, the town shall notify the
applicant or permittee, as appropriate, in writing by giving the written notice
personally to the applicant or permittee, or by certified or registered mail,
return receipt requested, mailed to the applicant or permittee at the address
given in the application. The notice shall state the reasons for the denial or
revocation.
   (B)   An applicant or permittee who has been denied a permit or whose permit
has been revoked may appeal the action to the Town Manager. Notice of appeal
must be given in writing, and served personally on the Town Manager. Notice of
appeal as provided in this division (B) must be given within 15 working days of
the either personal notice of the denial or revocation, or within 15 working
days of the mailing of notice, as provided in this section.
   (C)   The Town Manager will set an appeal hearing as soon as is practicable,
but not later than 30 days from the receipt of the notice of the appeal. At the
hearing, the Town Manager shall hear evidence as to the grounds for the denial
or revocation and shall hear evidence from the applicant or permittee, as
applicable. Within five days of the conclusion of the hearing, the Town Manager
will rule on the appeal, giving notice to the aggrieved party in the manner
provided in division (B) above.
(Ord. 02-2002, passed 8-8-2002)
CHAPTER 154:  FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
Purpose, Definitions
   
154.001   Findings of fact
   
154.002   Statement of purpose
   
154.003   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
154.004   Definitions
General Provisions
   
154.015   Application of chapter
   
154.016   Establishment of special flood hazard areas
   
154.017   Compliance
   
154.018   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
154.019   Interpretation
   
154.020   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
154.021   Statutory exemptions
   
154.022   Declaration of public nuisance
   
154.023   Abatement of violations
   
154.024   Unlawful acts
Administration
   
154.035   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
   
154.036   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
154.037   Establishment of development permit
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
154.050   Standards for construction
   
154.051   Standards for storage of materials and equipment
   
154.052   Standards for water supply and waste disposal systems
   
154.053   Additional development standards, including subdivisions
   
154.054   Standards for manufactured homes
   
154.055   Floodways
Variance Procedure
   
154.070   Nature of variances
   
154.071   Floodplain Board
   
154.072   Conditions for variances
PURPOSE, DEFINITIONS
§ 154.001  FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   In A.R.S. § 48-3610, the Arizona State Legislature enabled the Town of
Clifton to assume the powers and duties for floodplain management and adopt
regulations in conformance with A.R.S. § 48-3609 designed to promote the public
health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the Town
Council of Clifton, Arizona, does ordain as follows;
   (B)   The floodplains of the Town of Clifton are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (C)   These flood losses may be caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which increase flood heights and velocities and,
when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas. Uses that are
inadequately flood-proofed, elevated or otherwise protected from flood damage
also contribute to the flood loss.
(Ord. 01-2007, passed 9-13-2007; Am. Ord. 02-2019, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 154.002  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this ordinance to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flooding by
provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
Special Flood Hazard Areas;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of special flood hazard areas so as to minimize blight areas caused
by flooding;
   (G)   Notify potential buyers that the property is in a Special Flood Hazard
Area;
   (H)   Notify those who occupy special flood hazard areas that they assume
responsibility for their actions; and
   (I)   Participate in and maintain eligibility for flood insurance and
disaster relief.
(Ord. 01-2007, passed 9-13-2007; Am. Ord. 02-2019, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 154.003  METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods and
provisions to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
properly due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights, or velocities.
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction.
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel floodwaters.
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage.
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas.
(Ord. 01-2007, passed 9-13-2007; Am. Ord. 02-2019, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 154.004  DEFINITIONS.
   In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure that is on the same parcel of property as a
principal structure, the use of which is incidental to the use of the principal
structure.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated Zone AO, AH, AR/AO or AR/AH on the
town's firm with a one percent or greater annual chance of flooding to an
average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel does not
exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable, and where velocity flow may
be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The computed elevation to which floodwater is
anticipated to rise during the base flood.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor sub-grade; i.e., below
ground level on all sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building support or foundation system.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. Any state, area or political subdivision thereof, or any Indian
tribe or authorized tribal organization, or authorized native organization,
which has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations for
the areas within its jurisdiction.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. An administrative tool of the National Flood
Insurance Program (NFIP) that is used to provide elevation information
necessary to ensure compliance with community floodplain management ordinances,
to determine the proper insurance premium rate, and to support a request for a
Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) or Letter of Map Revision based on fill (LOMR-
F).
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance of infringement of uses, plant growth, fill,
excavation, buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain,
which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EROSION. The process of the gradual wearing a way of land masses. This peril
is not, per se, covered under the National Flood Insurance Program.
   FLOOD OR FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of flood waters;
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source, and/or
      (3)   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or
other body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a
severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding as defined in this definition.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the Special Flood
Hazard Areas (SFHAs) and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report provided by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency that includes flood profiles, the FIRM, and the
water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source (See definition of "Flood or Flooding").
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The Town Manager is hereby authorized by the
Floodplain Board to administer and enforce the provisions of this ordinance.
   FLOODPLAIN BOARD. The Town Council of the Town of Clifton at such times as
they are engaged in the enforcement of this chapter.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to emergency preparedness plans, flood control work, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivisions
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control ordinance)
and other applications of police power, which control development in flood-
prone areas. The term describes federal, state or local regulations in any
combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing flood
loss and damage.
   FLOOD PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to nonresidential structures which reduce or eliminate
flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary
facilities, structures, and their contents by means other than elevation.
   FLOOD-RELATED EROSION. The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of
a lake or other body of water as a result of undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a
severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as a flash flood or
an abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height. Also referred to as “Regulatory Floodway.”
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers and ship building and ship repair
facilities but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Town Council of the Town of Clifton.
   HARDSHIP. As related to §§
154.070 and
154.071, meaning the exceptional hardship that would result from a failure to
grant the requested variance. The requested variance must be exceptional,
unusual, and peculiar to the property involved. Mere economic or financial
hardship alone is not exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations,
physical handicaps, personal preferences, or the disapproval of one's neighbors
likewise cannot, as a rule, qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these
problems can be resolved through other means without granting a variance, even
if the alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LEVEE. A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water in order to reduce the risk from temporary
flooding.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area including the
basement. See Basement. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable
solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other
than a basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided,
that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of
the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For floodplain
management purposes, the term “manufactured home” also includes mobile homes as
defined in the town's zoning ordinance, park trailers, travel trailers, and
other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than 180 consecutive days.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. Replacement cost of a structure less depreciation since
construction.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, North American Vertical Datum
(NAVD) of 1988 or other datum, to which Base Flood Elevations shown on the
town's Floor Insurance Rate Map are referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining insurance rates,
structures for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the
effective date of an initial Flood Insurance Rate Map or after December 31,
1974, whichever is later, and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures. For floodplain management purposes, “new construction” means
structures for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the
effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by the town and
includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   OBSTRUCTION. Including, but not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation,
channelization, bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel,
refuse, fill, structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or
projecting into any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the
direction and/or velocity of the flow of water, or due to its location, its
propensity to snare or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its
likelihood of being earned downstream.
   ONE-HUNDRED-YEAR FLOOD OR 100-YEAR FLOOD. The common name for the flood
having a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. See
BASE FLOOD.
   PERSON. Any individual or their agent, a firm, partnership, association,
corporation or an agent of the aforementioned groups, or this state or its
agencies or political subdivisions.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION (RFE). An elevation one foot above the Base Flood
Elevation.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
   SHEETFLOW AREA. See AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). An area in the floodplain subject to a one
percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year. It is shown on an FIRM
as Zone A, AO, AE, AH or A99.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement was within 180 days from the date of permit.
The actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, that is principally above ground,
this includes a gas or liquid storage tank or a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement to a structure, the total cost of which equals or exceeds 50%
of the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred “substantial
damage,” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include, either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a “historic structure” provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structures continued designation as a
“historic structure.”
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this ordinance which
permits construction or such other uses of property in a manner that would
otherwise be prohibited by this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the town's floodplain management regulations. A structure or
other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications, or
other evidence of compliance required in this ordinance is presumed to be in
violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, North American Vertical Datum (NAVO) of 1988, or
other datum, of floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains
of coastal or riverine areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, arroyo, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
Watercourse includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   ZONE A. No Base Flood Elevations determined.
   ZONE AE. Base Flood Elevations determined.
   ZONE AH. Flood depths of one to three feet (usually areas of ponding); Base
Flood Elevations determined.
   ZONE AO. Flood depths of one to three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping
terrain); average depths determined. For areas of alluvial fan flooding,
velocities also determined.
   ZONE AR. Special Flood Hazard Area formerly protected from the 1% annual
chance flood by a flood control system that was subsequently decertified. Zone
AR indicates that the former flood control system is being restored to provide
protection from the 1% annual chance or greater flood.
   ZONE A99. Area to be protected from of 1% annual chance flood by a Federal
flood protection system under construction; no Base Flood Elevations
determined.
   ZONED. Areas in which flood hazards are undetermined, but possible.
   ZONE X (unshaded). Areas determined to be outside the 0.2% annual chance
floodplain.
   ZONE X (shaded). Areas of 0.2% annual chance flood; areas of 1% annual
chance flood with average depths of less than one foot or with drainage areas
less than one square mile; and areas protected by levees from 1% annual chance
flood.
(Ord. 01-2007, passed 9-13-2007; Am. Ord. 02-2019, passed 3-14-2019)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.015  APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall apply to all Special Flood Hazard Areas within the
corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. 01-2007, passed 9-13-2007; Am. Ord. 02-2019, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 154.016  ESTABLISHMENT OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   The special flood hazard areas identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) in a scientific and engineering report entitled “The
Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Greenlee County and Incorporated Areas, dated
September 28, 2007” and FIRMS dated September 28, 2007, and all subsequent
amendments and/or revisions, are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be
a part of this chapter. This FIS and attendant mapping is the minimum area of
applicability of this chapter and may be supplemented by studies for other
areas which allow implementation of this chapter and which are recommended to
the Floodplain Board by the Floodplain Administrator. The Floodplain Board,
within its area of jurisdiction, shall delineate (or may, by rule, require
developers of land to delineate) for areas where development is ongoing or
imminent, and thereafter as development becomes imminent, floodplains
consistent with the criteria developed by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and the Director of the Arizona Department of Water Resources.
   (B)   The Flood Insurance Study is on file at Town Hall.
(Ord. 01-2007, passed 9-13-2007; Am. Ord. 02-2019, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 154.017  COMPLIANCE.
   All development of land, construction of residential, commercial, or
industrial structures, or future development within delineated floodplain areas
is subject to the terms of this ordinance and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 01-2007, passed 9-13-2007; Am. Ord. 02-2019, passed 3-14-2019)  Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 154.018  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this ordinance and
another provision of this code, or another ordinance, easement, covenant or
deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 01-2007, passed 9-13-2007; Am. Ord. 02-2019, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 154.019  INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 01-2007, passed 9-13-2007; Am. Ord. 02-2019, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 154.020  WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this ordinance is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the special flood hazard areas or uses permitted within
such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not
create liability on the part of the Town, any officer or employee thereof, the
State of Arizona, or the Federal Emergency Management Agency, for any flood
damages that result from reliance on this ordinance or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 01-2007, passed 9-13-2007; Am. Ord. 02-2019, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 154.021  STATUTORY EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   In accordance with A.R.S. § 48-3609(1), unless expressly provided,
this and any regulation adopted pursuant to this section do not affect:
      (1)   Existing legal uses of property or the right to continuation of
legal use. However, if a nonconforming use of land or a building or structure
is discontinued for 12 months, or destroyed to the extent of 50% of its market
value as determined by a competent appraiser, any further use shall comply with
this section and regulations of the town;
      (2)   Reasonable repair or alteration of property for the purposes for
which the property was legally used on August 3, 1984 or on the date any
regulations affecting such property takes effect; except that any alteration,
addition or repair to a nonconforming building or structure which would result
in increasing its flood damage potential by 50% or more shall be either
floodproofed or elevated to or above the regulatory flood elevation;
      (3)   Facilities constructed or installed pursuant to a Certificate of
Environmental Compatibility issued pursuant to A.R.S. Title 40 Chapter 2,
Article 6.2; and
      (4)   Reasonable repair of structures constructed with the written
authorization required by A.R.S. § 48-3613;
      (5)   In accordance with A.R.S. § 48-3613(D), in addition to other
penalties or remedies otherwise provided by law, this state, a political
subdivision or a person who may be damaged or has been damaged as a result of
the unauthorized diversion, retardation or obstruction of a watercourse has the
right to commence, maintain and prosecute any appropriate action or pursue any
remedy to enjoin, abate or otherwise prevent any person from violating or
continuing to violate this section or regulations adopted pursuant to A.R.S.
Title 48, Chapter 21, Article 1. If a person is found to be in violation of
this Section, the court shall require the violator to either comply with this
Section if authorized by the Floodplain Board or remove the obstruction and
restore the watercourse to its original state. The court may also award such
monetary damages as are appropriate to the injured parties resulting from the
violation including reasonable costs and attorney fees.
   (B)   Before the following types of construction authorized by A.R.S. § 48-
3613(B) begin, the responsible person must submit plans for the construction to
the Floodplain Board for review and comment pursuant to A.R.S. § 48-3613(C):
      (1)   The construction of bridges, culverts, dikes and other structures
necessary for the construction of public highways, roads and streets
intersecting or crossing a watercourse;
      (2)   The construction of storage dams for watering livestock or
wildlife, and structures on banks of a watercourse to prevent erosion of or
damage to adjoining land if the structure will not divert, retard or obstruct
the natural channel of the watercourse or dams for the conservation of
floodwaters as permitted by A.R.S. Title 45, Chapter 6;
      (3)   Construction of tailing dams and waste disposal areas for use in
connection with mining and metallurgical operations. This paragraph does not
exempt those sand and gravel operations which will divert, retard or obstruct
the flow of waters in a watercourse from complying with and acquiring
authorization from the Floodplain Board pursuant to regulations adopted by the
Floodplain Board under this section;
      (4)   Other construction upon determination by the Floodplain Board that
written authorization is unnecessary;
      (5)   Any flood control district, county, city, town or other political
subdivision, from exercising powers granted to it under A.R.S. Title 48,
Chapter 21 Article l;
      (6)   The construction of streams, waterways, lakes and other auxiliary
facilities in conjunction with development of public parks and recreation
facilities by a public agency or political subdivision; and
      (7)   The construction and erection of poles, towers, foundations,
support structures, guy wires and other facilities related to power
transmission as constructed by any utility whether a public service corporation
or a political subdivision.
(Ord. 01-2007, passed 9-13-2007; Am. Ord. 02-2019, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 154.022  DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   All development located or maintained within any special flood hazard area
after August 8, 1973 in violation of this chapter, is a public nuisance per se
and may be abated, prevented, or restrained by action of the town.
(Ord. 01-2007, passed 9-13-2007; Am. Ord. 02-2019, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 154.023  ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Within 30 days of discovery of a violation of this chapter, the
Floodplain Administrator shall submit a report to the Floodplain Board which
shall include all information available to the Floodplain Administrator which
is pertinent to said violation.
   (B)   Within 30 days of receipt of this report, the Floodplain Board shall
either:
      (1)   Take any necessary action to affect the abatement of such
violation;
      (2)   Issue a variance to this chapter in accordance with the provisions
of §§
154.070 and
154.071; or
      (3)   Order the owner of the property upon which the violation exists to
provide whatever additional information may be required for their
determination. Such information must be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator within 30 days of such order, and the Floodplain Administrator
shall submit an amended report to the Floodplain Board within 20 days. At the
next regularly scheduled public meeting, the Floodplain Board shall either
order the abatement of said violation or they shall grant a variance in
accordance with the provisions of §§
154.070 and
154.071.
      (4)   If necessary, submit to Federal Emergency Management Agency a
declaration for denial of insurance, stating that the property is in violation
of a cited state or local law, regulation or ordinance, pursuant to Section
1316 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended.
(Ord. 01-2007, passed 9-13-2007; Am. Ord. 02-2019, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 154.024  UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to engage in any development or to
divert, retard or obstruct the flow of waters in any watercourse if it creates
a hazard to life or property without securing the written authorization
required by A.R.S. § 48-3613. Where the watercourse is a delineated floodplain,
it is unlawful to engage in any development affecting the flow of waters
without securing written authorization required by A.R.S. § 48-3613.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of this ordinance
shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor. Each day that a violation continues
shall be a separate offense punishable as hereinabove described.
(Ord. 01-2007, passed 9-13-2007; Am. Ord. 02-2019, passed 3-14-2019)  Penalty,
see §
10.99
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.030  DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Manager is hereby appointed to administer, implement and enforce
this chapter by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its
provisions.
(Ord. 02-2019, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 154.035    DUTIES    AND    RESPONSIBILITIES    OF    THE FLOODPLAIN
ADMINISTRATOR.
   Duties of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be limited to:
   (A)   Permit Review.
      (1)   Review all development permits to determine that:
         (a)   The permit requirements of this ordinance have been satisfied;
         (b)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained;
         (c)   The site is reasonably safe from flooding; and
         (d)   In areas where a floodway has not been designated, the proposed
development does not adversely affect the carrying capacity of areas where Base
Flood Elevations have been determined.
      (2)   For purposes of this chapter, ADVERSELY AFFECTS means that the
cumulative effect of the proposed development when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
   (B)   Substantial improvement and substantial damage assessments. Review all
development permits for improvements and/or damages to existing structures to
determine if the application of the substantial improvement rules apply,
including establishing a definition of market value determination and verifying
that the estimated improvement and/or repair costs are less than 50% of the
market value of the structure.
   (C)   Use of other base flood data. When Base Flood Elevation Data has not
been provided in accordance with §
154.016, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any Base Flood Elevation Data available from a Federal, state or other
source, in order to administer §§
154.050 through
154.055. Any such information shall be consistent with the requirements of the
Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Director of the Arizona Department
of Water Resources and may be submitted to the Floodplain Board for adoption.
   (D)   Information to be obtained and maintained. Obtain and maintain for
public inspection in accordance with the town's records retention schedule and
make available as needed.
      (1)   The certified elevation required in §§
154.050(C)(1) and
154.054;
      (2)   The certification required in §
154.050(C)(2);
      (3)   The flood proofing certification required in §
154.050(C)(3);
      (4)   The certified elevation required in §
154.053(A)(2);
      (5)   The Floodway Encroachment Certification required in §
154.055(A);
      (6)   Maintain a record of all variance actions, including justification
for their issuance; and
      (7)   Obtain and maintain improvement and damage calculations required in
§
154.035(B).
   (E)   Alteration of watercourses.
      (1)   Whenever a watercourse is to be altered or relocated:
         (a)   Notify adjacent communities and the Arizona Department of Water
Resources prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit
evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency
through appropriate notification means; and
         (b)   Require that the flood carrying capacity of the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse is maintained.
      (2)   Base Flood Elevation and rate of flow due to physical altercations.
         (a)   Base Flood Elevations may increase or decrease resulting from
physical changes affecting flooding conditions. As soon as practicable, but not
later than six months after the date such information becomes available, the
Floodplain Administrator shall notify the Federal Emergency Management Agency
of the changes by submitting technical or scientific data in accordance with
Volume 44 C.F.R. § 65.3. Such a submission is necessary so that upon
confirmation of those physical changes affecting flooding conditions, risk
premium rates and floodplain management requirements will be based upon current
data.
         (b)   Within 120 days after completion of construction of any flood
control protective works which changes the rate of flow during the base flood
or the configuration of the floodplain upstream or downstream from or adjacent
to the project, the person or agency responsible for installation for the
project shall provide to the governing bodies of all jurisdictions affected by
the project a new delineation of all floodplains affected by the project. The
new delineation shall be done according to the criteria adopted by the Director
of the Arizona Department of Water Recourses.
      (3)   Corporate Boundary Changes. Notify the Federal Emergency Management
Agency of acquisition by means of annexation, incorporation or otherwise, of
additional areas of jurisdiction.
   (F)   Interpretation of FIRM boundaries. Make interpretations where needed,
as to the exact location of the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas
(for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary
and actual field conditions). The person contesting the location of the
boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation
as provided in §
154.070(B).
   (G)   Actions on violations. Take actions on violations of this ordinance as
required in §
154.023.
(Ord. 02-2019, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 154.037  ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be obtained before construction or
development begins, including placement of manufactured homes, within any
special flood hazard area. Application for a development permit shall be made
on forms furnished by the floodplain administrator and may include, but not be
limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location,
dimensions and elevation of the area in question, existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities and the location of
the foregoing.
   (B)   Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest
floor (including basement) of all structures. In Zone AO, elevation of existing
highest adjacent grade and proposed elevation of lowest floor of all
structures;
      (2)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure will be floodproofed;
      (3)   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the flood-proofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet the
floodproofing criteria in §
154.050(C);
      (4)   Base flood elevation data for subdivision proposals or other
development greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is the lesser; and
      (5)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
(Ord. 01-2007, passed 9-13-2007; Am. Ord. 02-2019, passed 3-14-2019)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 154.050  STANDARDS FOR CONSTRUCTION.
   In all Special Flood Hazard Areas the following standards are required:
   (A)   Anchoring.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy; and
      (2)   All manufactured homes shall meet the anchoring standards of §
154.054.
   (B)   Construction materials and methods.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      (3)   All new construction, substantial improvement, and other proposed
new development shall be constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are
designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components during conditions of flooding.
      (4)   Within Zones AH or AO, adequate drainage paths shall be constructed
around structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
   (C)   Elevation and floodprooflng.
      (1)   (a)   Residential construction, new or substantial improvement,
shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above the
Regulatory Flood Elevation.
            1.   In a Zone AO, the Base Flood Elevation is determined from the
FIRM panel. If unspecified, the required elevation is at minimum two feet above
highest adjacent grade.
            2.   In a Zone A where the Base Flood Elevation has not been
determined, the Base Flood Elevation is determined locally by the criteria set
out in §
154.030(C).
            3.   In Zones AE and AH, the Base Flood Elevation is determined
from the FIS and/or FIRM.
            4.   A garage attached to a residential structure, constructed with
the garage floor slab below the Regulatory Flood Elevation, must be designed to
allow for the automatic entry and exit of flood waters. See §
154.050(C)(3).
         (b)   Upon completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest
floor, including basement, shall be certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor, and verified by the town's building inspector to be
properly elevated. Pursuant to this section, such certification and
verification shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
      (2)   (a)   Nonresidential construction; new or substantial improvement
shall either be elevated in conformance with division (1) of this section or
together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities:
            1.   Be floodproofed so that below the regulatory flood elevation
the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage
of water;
            2.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic
and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
            3.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect that the standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such
certifications shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
         (b)   Require, for all new construction and substantial improvements,
with fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements) that are
usable solely for parking of vehicles, access, or storage and which are subject
to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood
forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters.
Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
            1.   A minimum of two openings, on different sides of each enclosed
area, having a total net area of not less than one square inch for every square
foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade;
            3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters; or
         (c)   Alternatively, a registered engineer or architect may design and
certify engineered openings.
         (d)   Machinery and service equipment. All new construction,
substantial improvement and other proposed new development shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
         (e)   Garages and accessory structures.
            1.   Attached garages.
               A.   A garage attached to a residential structure, constructed
with the garage floor slab below the regulatory flood elevation, must be
designed to allow for the automatic entry of flood waters. See §
154.050(C)(3). Areas of the garage below the regulatory flood elevation must be
constructed with flood resistant materials. See §
154.050(B).
               B.   A garage attached to a nonresidential structure must meet
the above requirements or be dry flood-proofed.
            2.   Detached garages and accessory structures.
               A.   "Accessory structure" used solely for parking, may be
constructed such that its floor is below the Regulatory Flood Elevation,
provided the structure is designed and constructed in accordance with the
following requirements:
                  i.   Use of the accessory structure must be limited to
parking of vehicles storage;
                  ii.   The portions of the accessory structure located below
the regulatory flood elevation must be built using flood-resistant materials;
                  iii.   The accessory structure must be adequately anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse and lateral movement;
                  iv.   Any mechanical and utility equipment in the accessory
structure must be elevated or flood-proofed to or above the regulatory flood
elevation;
                  v.   The accessory structure must comply with floodway
encroachment provisions in §
154.055; and
                  vi.   The accessory structure must be designed to allow for
the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters in accordance with §
154.050(C)(3).
               B.   Detached garages and accessory structures not meeting the
above standards must be constructed in accordance with all applicable standards
in §
154.050.
         (f)   Recreational vehicles. All recreational vehicles placed on site
shall:
            1.   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days,
            2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. a recreational
vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is
attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security
devices, and has no permanently attached additions; or
            3.   Meet the permit requirements of §§
154.035 and
154.036 of this chapter and the elevation and anchoring requirements for
manufactured homes in §
154.054.
(Ord. 01-2007, passed 9-13-2007; Ord. 02-2014, passed 6-12-2014; Am. Ord. 02-
2019, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 154.051  STANDARDS FOR STORAGE OF MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The storage or processing of materials that could be injurious to
human, animal or plant life if released due to damage from flooding is
prohibited in special flood hazard areas.
   (B)   Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not subject
to damage by floods and if firmly anchored to prevent flotation or, if readily
removable from the area within the time available after flood warning.
(Ord. 01-2007, passed 9-13-2007; Am. Ord. 02-2019, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 154.052  STANDARDS FOR WATER SUPPLY AND WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   All new and replacement water supply and sanitary sewage systems shall
be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the
system and discharge from systems into flood waters.
   (B)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (C)   Waste disposal systems shall not be installed wholly or partially in a
regulatory floodway.
(Ord. 02-2019, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 154.053  ADDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS, INCLUDING SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   All new subdivision proposals and other proposed development
(including proposals for Mobile Home Parks or subdivisions) greater than 50
lots or five acres, whichever is the lesser, shall:
      (1)   Identify the flood hazard area and the elevation of the base flood;
and
      (2)   Identify on final plans the elevation(s) of proposed structure(s)
and pads. If the site is filled above the Base Flood Elevation, the final
lowest floor and grade shall be certified by a registered professional engineer
or surveyor and provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals and other proposed new development shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals and other proposed development shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (D)   All subdivisions and other proposed development shall provide adequate
drainage to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
(Ord. 02-2019, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 154.054  STANDARDS FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   All new and replacement manufactured homes and substantial improved
manufactured homes shall:
   (A)   Be elevated so that the bottom of the structural frame or the lowest
point of any attached appliance, whichever is lower, is at the Regulatory Flood
Elevation; and
   (B)   Be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to
resist floatation, collapse or lateral movement. Upon completion of
installation of the manufactured home, certification by a registered
professional engineer or surveyor that the elevation requirements of this
section have been satisfied shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator
for verification.
(Ord. 01-2007, passed 9-13-2007; Am. Ord. 02-2019, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 154.055  FLOODWAYS.
   Located within special flood hazard area established in §
154.016 are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters which carry debris, potential
projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions apply:
   (A)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other development unless certification by a registered
professional engineer or architect is provided demonstrating that encroachments
shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the
base flood discharge.
   (B)   If §
154.055(A) above is satisfied, all new construction and substantial
improvements shall comply with all other applicable flood hazard reduction
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 01-2007, passed 9-13-2007; Am. Ord. 02-2019, passed 3-14-2019)
VARIANCE PROCEDURE
§ 154.070  NATURE OF VARIANCES.
   (A)   The variance criteria set forth in this section are based on the
general principle of zoning law that variances pertain to a piece of property
and are not personal in nature. A variance may be granted for a parcel of
property with physical characteristics so unusual that complying with the
requirements of this chapter would create an exceptional hardship to the
applicant or the surrounding property owners. The characteristics must be
unique to the property and not be shared by adjacent parcels. The unique
characteristic must pertain to the land itself, not to the structure, its
inhabitants or the property owners.
   (B)   It is the duty of the Town of Clifton to help protect its citizens
from flooding. This need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of
insuring a structure built below the Regulatory Flood Elevation are so serious
that variances from the flood elevation or from other requirements in the flood
ordinance are quite rare. The long-term goal of preventing and reducing flood
loss and damage can only be met if variances are strictly limited. Therefore,
the variance guidelines provided in this ordinance are more detailed and
contain multiple provisions that must be met before a variance can be properly
granted. The criteria are designed to screen out those situations in which
alternatives other than a variance are more appropriate.
(Ord. 02-2019, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 154.071  FLOODPLAIN REVIEW BOARD.
   (A)   The Floodplain Review Board shall hear and decide appeals and requests
for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Floodplain Review Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination made by
the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this
chapter.
   (C)   In considering such applications, the Floodplain Review Board shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified
in other sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters expected at the site; and,
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water system, and streets and
bridges.
   (D)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the Regulatory Flood Elevation, providing the procedures of §§
154.030 through
154.055 have been fully considered. As the lot size increase beyond one-half
acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (E)   Upon consideration of the factors of this division (C) of this section
and the purposes of this chapter, the Floodplain Board may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this chapter.
   (F)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
Regulatory Flood Elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood
insurance up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Such construction below the regulatory flood elevation increases
risks to life and property; and
      (3)   The land upon which the variance is granted shall be ineligible for
exchange of state land pursuant to the flood relocation and land exchange
program provided by A.R.S. § 37-610. A copy of the notice shall be recorded in
the office of the Greenlee County Recorder and shall be recorded in a manner so
that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
   (G)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
variance actions including justification for their issuance.
   (H)   A person aggrieved in any manner by an action of the Floodplain Review
Board may within thirty days appeal to the Floodplain Board.
(Ord. 02-2019, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 154.072  CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued:
      (1)   Upon a determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances;
      (2)   For the repair, rehabilitation or restoration of structures listed
on the National Register of Historic Places or the State Inventory of Historic
Places, upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
      (3)   Upon a determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief;
      (4)   Upon a showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (5)   Upon a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant;
      (6)   Upon a showing that the use cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. This includes
only facilities defined in §
154.004 in the definition of “Functionally Dependent Use.”
   (B)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
(Ord. 01-2007, passed 9-13-2007; Am. Ord. 02-2019, passed 3-14-2019)
CHAPTER 155:  SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Purpose; subdivision administration
   
155.002   Definitions
   
155.003   Land splits
   
155.004   Procedures of the town on appeals of required dedications or
exactions
Platting Procedures and Requirements
   
155.015   Plat required
   
155.016   Outline of procedures
   
155.017   Pre-application stage
   
155.018   Preliminary plat stage
   
155.019   Final plat stage
Subdivision Design Principles and Standards
   
155.030   Conform to requirements
   
155.031   Public sites
   
155.032   Land unsuitable for proposed use
   
155.033   Street location and arrangement
   
155.034   Street design
   
155.035   Construction standards and specifications
   
155.036   Lot planning
   
155.037   Easement planning
   
155.038   Street names
Street and Utility Improvement Requirements
   
155.050   Purpose
   
155.051   Responsibility for improvements
   
155.052   Engineering plans
   
155.053   Construction and inspection
   
155.054   Required improvements
   
155.055   Submittal, review and approval of engineering plans
   
155.056   Assurance of construction of improvements
Modification
   
155.070   Extraordinary conditions
   
155.071   Appeal and hearing
   
155.072   Additional requirements
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001  PURPOSE; SUBDIVISION ADMINISTRATION.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the orderly growth and
harmonious development of the town; to secure adequate traffic circulation
through coordinated street systems with relation to major thoroughfares,
adjoining subdivisions, and public facilities; to achieve individual property
lots having optimum utility and livability; to secure adequate provisions for
water supply and distribution, drainage and flood control, sanitary sewerage
and other health requirements; to ensure and facilitate provision of sites for
schools, recreation and other public purposes; to promote conveyance of land by
accurate legal description; and to establish logical procedures for the
achievement of this purpose. The Town Planning and Zoning Advisory Commission
and Town Council are hereby designated and authorised to receive and process
and otherwise act upon preliminary and final subdivision plats in accordance
with these regulations. The Subdivision Committee is hereby designated as
advisory agent to the Commission and Council. Where this chapter imposes a
greater restriction upon land, land improvement or development, and land use
than is imposed or required by existing provisions of law, ordinance, contract
or deed, this chapter shall control.
(Ord. 01-95, passed 9-21-1995)
§ 155.002  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY.  A public way providing secondary vehicular access and service to
properties which also abut upon a street.
   BLOCK.  A piece or parcel of land or group of lots entirely surrounded by
public streets, water course, railroads or parks or a combination thereof.
   COMMISSION.  The Planning and Zoning Advisory Commission of the Town of
Clifton.
   CONDITIONAL APPROVAL.  An affirmative action by the Planning Commission and
the Council indicating that approval of a preliminary plat will be forthcoming
upon satisfaction of certain specified stipulations.
   EASEMENT.  A grant by the owner for the use of a strip of land by the
public, a corporation or persons for specific and designated uses and purposes.
   ENGINEERING PLANS.  Plans, profiles, cross-sections, specifications and
other details of construction of public improvements, prepared by an Arizona
Registered Engineer in accordance with the approved preliminary plat and in
compliance with public improvement standards.
   EXCEPTION.  Any parcel of land located within the boundaries of a
subdivision which is not included in the plat.
   FINAL APPROVAL.  The unconditional approval of a final plat by the Council
as evidenced by certification thereon by the Town Clerk.
   GENERAL PLAN.  The Clifton Master Plan.
   LOT.  A piece or parcel of land shown on a plat of record or recorded by
metes and bounds that is occupied or intended for occupancy by a use permitted
in these regulations and having its principal frontage upon a street.
      (1)   CORNER LOT.  A lot abutting on two or more intersecting streets
having an interior angle of intersection not exceeding 135 degrees.
      (2)   DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT.  A lot abutting on two non-intersecting
streets.
      (3)   KEY LOT.  An interior lot, one side of which is contiguous with the
rear line of a corner lot.
   LOT DEPTH.  The distance, measured on a line parallel to the axis of the
lot, between a point on the front lot line and a point on the rear lot line
which is closest to the proposed or existing dwelling or principal building or
any part thereof.
   LOT LINE.  A line bounding a lot.
      (1)   FRONT LOT LINE.  The lot line coinciding with the street line; or,
in the case of a corner lot, the shortest of two lot lines coinciding with
street lines; or, in the case of a double frontage lot, both lot lines
coinciding with street lines.
      (2)   REAR LOT LINE.  The lot line opposite and farthest from the front
lot line; for a pointed or irregular lot, the rear lot line shall be an
imaginary line, parallel to and farthest from the front lot line, not less than
ten feet long and wholly within the lot.
      (3)   SIDE LOT LINE.  Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line;
in the case of a corner lot, the lot line abutting the side street is termed an
EXTERIOR SIDE LOT LINE; all other side lot lines are termed INTERIOR SIDE LOT
LINES.
   LOT WIDTH.
      (1)   In the case of a rectangular lot or a lot abutting on the outside
of a street curve, the distance between side lot lines, measured at the minimum
front setback line parallel to the street or street chord.
      (2)   In the case of lot abutting on the inside of a street curve, the
distance between side lot lines measured at the rear line of the dwelling, or
when there is no dwelling, 30 feet behind the minimum front setback line,
parallel to the street or street chord.
   MAJOR STREETS AND THOROUGHFARES PLAN.  The part of the general plan which
provides for development of the major streets and highways system of the town.
   OWNER.  The person, corporation or other legal entity, holding title to land
by deed, or as vendees under land contract, or holding other title of record.
   PLAT.  A map of a subdivision.
      (1)   PRELIMINARY PLAT.  A map, including supporting data, of a proposed
subdivision prepared in accordance with §
155.018(E).
      (2)   FINAL PLAT.  A map of a subdivision prepared in accordance with §
155.019(E).
   PRELIMINARY APPROVAL.  Unconditional approval of a preliminary plat by the
subdivision committee, as evidenced by meeting minutes and noted upon copies of
the plan.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS.  A set of regulations establishing
specifications and instructions to be followed in planning, design and
construction of certain public improvements, formulated and enforced by the
Town Engineer and duly approved by the Council.
   PUBLIC UTILITY.  Underground, above ground or overhead facilities furnishing
to the public under state or municipal regulations, electricity, gas, steam,
communications, water, drainage, flood control, irrigation, garbage or trash
disposal and sewage disposal; also, such person, firm, corporation or municipal
department or board, as the context indicates.
   RESUBDIVISION.  The redesign or recombination of a group of lots of record,
or of an entire recorded subdivision, not involving a new street and not
creating any additional lots; or, the division into more than two parts of any
lot, tract or parcel of land, the boundaries of which have been fixed by a
recorded plat, whether or not a new street is involved; provided, however, that
the transfer of ownership of parcels or strips of land to or between adjoining
property owners where such transfer does not create additional lots, shall not
be deemed RESUBDIVISION.
   STREET.  Any street, avenue, boulevard, road, lane, parkway, place, drive or
right-of-way which is an existing state, county or municipal roadway; or, a
vehicular access way shown in a  plat which has been approved by the Town
Council and duly recorded in the office of the County Recorder. A STREET
includes all land within the right-of-way whether improved or unimproved,
pavement, shoulders, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, parking space, bridges,
viaducts, lawns and trees.
      (1)   ARTERIAL ROUTE.  A general term including freeways, expressways,
major arterial streets and interstate, state or county highways and usually
section line roads.
      (2)   COLLECTOR STREET.  A street with limited continuity serving the
primary function of carrying traffic from local streets to arterial routes, and
the secondary function of providing access to abutting properties.
      (3)   CUL-DE-SAC STREET.  A short local street having one end permanently
terminating in and including a vehicular turning area.
      (4)   LOCAL STREET.  A street serving the primary function of providing
access to abutting property.
   STREET LINE.  A line describing the boundaries of a street right-of-way.
   SUBDIVIDER.  The person, firm, corporation, partnership, association,
syndicate, trust or other legal entity that makes application and initiates
proceedings for the subdivision of land in accordance with these regulations;
provided, that an individual serving as agent for such legal entity shall not
be deemed the SUBDIVIDER.
   SUBDIVISION.  The division for lease, transfer of ownership, or building
development of a tract or parcel of land into five or more lots, tracts or
parcels; or, if a new street is involved, any division of a parcel of land; or,
resubdivision of land heretofore divided or platted into lots, tracts or
parcels; provided, that the partitioning of land, in accordance with state
statutes regulating partitioning of land held in common ownership, shall not be
deemed a SUBDIVISION. The term SUBDIVISION is not limited to division of land
for single-family residential uses and shall include, within the limitations of
the foregoing definition, commercial and industrial subdivisions and certain
types of divisions of multi-family residential properties. Condominiums,
cooperatives, townhouses or similar projects containing five or more parcels,
in which an undivided interest in the land is coupled with the right of
exclusive occupancy of any unit located thereon, are SUBDIVISIONS within the
foregoing definition.
   SUBDIVISION COMMITTEE.  The committee established pursuant to §
155.017(A), and shall consist of the Town Engineer, the Director of Public
Works and the Director of the Planning Department.
   USEABLE LOT AREA.  The portion of a lot useable for or reasonably adaptable
to the normal use for which the lot is intended, and not including area which
is covered by water, is excessively steep, or has its normal use restricted by
certain types of easements.
(Ord. 01-95, passed 9-21-1995)
§ 155.003  LAND SPLITS.
   (A)   LAND SPLITS means the division of improved or unimproved land, the
area of which is two and one-half acres or less, into two or three tracts or
parcels of land for the purpose of sale or lease.
   (B)   Prior to the division of any land by a land split as defined in
division (A) above, the person proposing such a land split shall submit to the
Council a plat showing such land split. The plat shall indicate the reservation
of all necessary street and utility easements for the tract or parcel created
by such land split.
(Ord. 01-95, passed 9-21-1995)
§ 155.004  PROCEDURES OF THE TOWN ON APPEALS OF REQUIRED DEDICATIONS OR
EXACTIONS.
   (A)   Rights of property owner. In addition to other rights granted to you
by the United States and Arizona Constitution, federal and state law and town
ordinances or regulations, you are hereby notified of your right to appeal any
dedication or exaction which is required of vou by an administrative agency or
official of the town as a condition of granting approval of your request to
use, improve or develop your property.
   (B)   Appeal procedure. If you wish to appeal, the following procedures will
apply to your appeal.
      (1)   It must be in writing and filed with or mailed to the Hearing
Officer designated by the town within 30 days after the administrative agency
or official has made his or her determination requiring the dedication or
exaction.
      (2)   No fee will be charged for filing your appeal.
      (3)   Your hearing will be scheduled within 30 days of receipt by the
Hearing Officer of your request. The town will bear the burden of proving that
the dedication or exaction to be imposed on your property has an essential
nexus to a legitimate governmental interest and that the proposed dedication or
exaction is roughly proportional to the impact of the use, improvement or
development proposed by you.
      (4)   Ten-days’ notice will be given to you of the date, time and place
of the hearing unless you indicate to the Hearing Officer in your request that
less notice is acceptable to you.
      (5)   The Hearing Officer must render his or her decision within five
working days after the hearing.
      (6)   The Hearing Officer can affirm the dedication or exaction, modify
it or delete the requirement.
      (7)   If you are dissatisfied with the decision of the Hearing Officer,
you may file a complaint for a trial de novo with the Superior Court within 30
days of the Hearing Officer’s decision.
   (C)   Questions. If you have questions about this appeal process, you may
wish to contact an attorney. This appeal procedure is governed by A.R.S. §§ 9-
500.12, 9-500.13 and 11-811.
   (D)   Certification. I hereby certify that I have received a copy of this
Procedures of the Town of Clifton on Appeals of Required Dedications or
Exaction, and have read this document.
_______________________                  ________________________________
Date                           Signature
(Ord. 01-95, passed 9-21-1995)
PLATTING PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 155.015  PLAT REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, corporation or other legal entity shall, for the purpose of
circumventing this chapter, hereafter sell, offer to sell or divide any lot,
piece or parcel of land which constitutes a subdivision or part thereof, as
defined herein, without first having recorded a plat in accordance with this
chapter.
(Ord. 01-95, passed 9-21-1995)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.016  OUTLINE OF PROCEDURES.
   The preparation, submission, review and official action concerning all
subdivision plats located within the town shall proceed through the following
progressive stages:
   (A)   Pre-application stage;
   (B)   Preliminary plat stage; and
   (C)   Final plat stage.
(Ord. 01-95, passed 9-21-1995)
§ 155.017  PRE-APPLICATION STAGE.
   (A)   This stage of subdivision planning comprises an investigatory period
preceding preparation of the preliminary plat.
   (B)   If, during this stage, it is determined that a change in zoning will
be proposed for all or part of the tract, the subdivider should prepare to
initiate an application for zoning amendment simultaneously with submission of
a preliminary plat.
      (1)   A Subdivision Committee composed of the Town Engineer, Director of
Public Works and Director of Planning is hereby established and shall review
all applications for preliminary plat approval in the town. The Director of
Planning shall serve as Chairperson of the Subdivision Committee.
      (2)   The subdivider shall confer with the Subdivision Committee and
present informally a general outline of his or her proposal, including, but not
limited to:
         (a)   Sketch plans and ideas regarding land use, street and lot
arrangement and tentative lot sizes; and
         (b)   Tentative proposals regarding utility and street improvements.
      (3)   The Subdivision Committee shall advise the subdivider of
procedures, design and improvement standards and platting requirements. The
Committee shall investigate the following aspects of the proposal and report
its recommendations to the subdivider:
         (a)   Existing zoning or proposed zoning amendment;
         (b)   Adequacy of existing and proposed school, recreation and other
public sites; and
         (c)   Sufficiency of existing and proposed street and utility systems,
existing and proposed uses of adjoining lands, and any special problems such as
topography, drainage and flooding.
(Ord. 01-95, passed 9-21-1995)
§ 155.018  PRELIMINARY PLAT STAGE.
   (A)   This stage includes preparation, submission, review and approval of
the preliminary plat.
   (B)   Processing will be expedited by submission of all information
essential to determining the intended character and general acceptability of
the proposal.
      (1)   Preliminary plat submission.
         (a)   Filing and meeting dates. An application for plat approval,
together with 15 copies of the preliminary plat and required supporting data,
prepared in accordance with division (B)(5) below, shall be filed with the
Director of Planning at least 14 days prior to his or her initial meeting with
the Subdivision Committee.
         (b)   Zoning amendment. The preliminary plat shall be designed to meet
all requirements of the zoning district in which it is located; however, in the
event that an amendment of zoning is deemed necessary, such application shall
accompany submission of the preliminary plat.
         (c)   Filing fees. Application for plat approval shall include payment
to the Town Clerk of a filing fee in an amount established by resolution of the
Council.
         (d)   Case number. If it meets all requirements of division (B)(5)
below, the application shall be assigned a case number; otherwise, it shall be
rejected and the subdivider notified as to the deficiencies.
      (2)   Preliminary plat review.
         (a)   It shall be the duty of the Subdivision Committee to review the
preliminary plat for technical and engineering compliance with this chapter and
to review the plat for compliance with good planning principles.
         (b)   On receipt of the preliminary plat, the Director of Planning
shall distribute copies to:
            1.   The Subdivision Committee to determine compliance with
provisions of this chapter;
            2.   The Town Engineer for the review of street plans, compliance
with town road standards, for tentative determination of street and drainage
improvement requirements and review of water and sewage disposal;
            3.   The Director of Public Works for review of water and sewage
disposal;
            4.   The Superintendent of the Clifton School District for his or
her information;
            5.   Where the land abuts a state highway, to the State Department
of Transportation for recommendations regarding rights-of-way and intersection
design;
            6.   Affected electric and telephone utilities; and
            7.   The Fire Chief for the review of the adequacy of fire
protection facilities proposed.
         (c)   The reviewing offices shall transmit their recommendations in
writing to the Director of Planning.
         (d)   The Director of Planning shall review the preliminary plat for
compliance with public objectives, giving special attention to design
principles and standards as set forth in §§
155.030 through
155.038, to utility methods and systems, to existing and proposed zoning and
land use of the tract and environs, and to land required for schools, parks and
other public facilities.
      (3)   Subdivision Committee meeting and actions.
         (a)   If all requirements of-this chapter have been met, the
Subdivision Committee shall meet with the subdivider and review the plan.
         (b)   If it appears to the Subdivision Committee that the requirements
of this chapter have been met, the Subdivision Committee shall submit its
recommendations to the Planning Commission for preliminary plat approval.
         (c)   If satisfied that all objectives of these regulations have been
met, the Planning Commission shall recommend approval of the preliminary plat
to the Council.
         (d)   If the plat is generally acceptable but requires minor revision
before preparation of the final plat, the Planning Commission shall recommend
conditional approval and specify the recommended revisions in its meeting
minutes.
         (e)   If the Planning Commission determines that the plat contains
major deficiencies, and if the subdivider agrees to correct such deficiencies,
the case may be held over pending revision, re-submission and reprocessing;
otherwise, the Planning Commission shall recommend rejection. If the Planning
Commission recommends rejection of plat, reasons for the recommendation shall
be recorded in the minutes. Thereafter, any new filing of a plat for the same
tract, or any part thereof, shall follow normal procedures and be subject to a
new filing fee.
         (f)   The preliminary plat and the Planning Commission’s
recommendation shall be forwarded to the Council for final action. If the
Council rejects the plat, the reasons for rejection shall be recorded in the
minutes. Any new filing of the plat for the same tract, or any part thereof,
shall follow normal procedures and be subject to a new filing fee. If the plat
is generally acceptable but requires minor revision before preparation of the
final plat, the Council shall find conditional approval and specify the
required revision in its minutes. The Council may empower the Director of
Planning to review and approve the plat when so revised.
         (g)   Any zoning change required may be heard by the Planning
Commission at the same time as preliminary plat approval, but shall be acted on
separately.
      (4)   Significance of approval.
         (a)   Approval of a preliminary plat constitutes authorization for the
subdivider to proceed with the preparation of the final plat and engineering
plans. Preliminary approval is valid for a period of 12 months from date, and
may be extended once for six months at the discretion of the Council. The
subdivider may submit the final plat, or any part thereof, on or before the
expiration date. If approval expires prior to filing of final plat, the
preliminary plat shall be resubmitted for approval as a new case, and a few fee
paid.
         (b)   If the Director of Planning’s review of a resubmitted plat
reveals no substantial change from the previously approved preliminary plat and
that conditions under which previous approval was granted have not changed, the
filing fee shall be refunded and the resubmitted plat rescheduled for hearing
by the Planning Commission.
      (5)   Information required for preliminary plat submission.
         (a)   Form and scale. Preliminary plat information shall be presented
on one or more 24 inches  by 36 inches plan sheets with written data entered
directly thereon or contained in letters attached thereto. All mapped data for
the same plat shall be drawn at the same standard engineering scale, said scale
being not more than 100 feet to the inch.
         (b)   Identification data.
            1.   Proposed subdivision name; location by section, township and
range; reference by dimension and bearing to a section corner or one-quarter
section corner;
            2.   Name, address and phone number of subdivider;
            3.   Name, address and phone number of person preparing plat; and
            4.   Scale, north point and date of preparation including any
revision dates.
         (c)   Existing conditions data.
            1.   Topography by contours, related to USGS survey datum or other
datum approved by the Town Engineer, shown on same sheet as the subdivision
layout. Contour interval shall usually be: two feet for grades up to 5%; five
feet for grades of 5% to 10%, and ten feet for grades over 10%;
            2.   Precise location of water wells; washes and drainage ditches,
including direction of flow; location and extent of areas subject to inundation
and data regarding frequency of inundation;
            3.   Location, widths and names of all platted streets, alleys,
utility rights-of-way of public record; public areas and permanent structures
to be retained within or adjacent to tract;
            4.   Name, book and page numbers of recorded plats abutting the
tract or across a boundary street; and
            5.   Dimensions of tract boundaries and acreage of tract.
         (d)   Proposed conditions data.
            1.   Street layout, including location and width of all streets,
alleys and easements and proposed names of streets; both on and off-site;
            2.   Lot layout, including scaled dimensions of typical lots;
minimum and maximum size of lots; number of lots; width and depth of all corner
lots and lots on street curves; each lot numbered consecutively, and total
number of lots; total acreage; proposed density;
            3.   Location, width and proposed use of easements;
            4.   Location, extent and proposed use of all land to be dedicated
or reserved for public use;
            5.   Location and boundary of all existing and proposed zoning
classifications; and
            6.   Draft of proposed deed restrictions.
         (e)   Proposed utilities. The preliminary plat shall include the
layout of all proposed utilities. Preliminary drainage calculations and layout
of proposed storm drainage system shall be submitted, including location of
outlets.
(Ord. 01-95, passed 9-21-1995)
§ 155.019  FINAL PLAT STAGE.
   (A)   This stage includes final design of the subdivision, final engineering
of public improvements, submittal of plat and plans by the subdivider, plat
review by the Director of Planning and Planning Commission and final hearing by
the Council.
   (B)   No plat shall be submitted for final approval by the Council until
plans for all off-site improvements have been approved by the Town Engineer.
      (1)   Pre-submission requirements.
         (a)   Zoning. The final plat shall meet all requirements of the zoning
district in which it is located; and necessary zoning amendments shall have
been adopted by the Council prior to filing of the final plat.
         (b)   Preparation of final plat. The final plat shall be in
substantial conformance to the approved preliminary plat, and be prepared in
accordance with §
155.018(B)(5).
         (c)   Easements. Final plat submission shall include letters
signifying approval of utility easements by the public utilities.
      (2)   Final plat submission. The final plat and four true copies thereof,
together with the recordation fee, shall be filed with the Town Clerk at least
twenty-one days prior to the Council meeting at which the case is to be heard.
The Clerk shall record the date of filing and immediately transmit the
submittal to the Director of Planning. At the time of submission for final plat
approval, a filing fee of $1,000, plus $10 per lot shall be paid.
      (3)   Final plat review.
         (a)   The Director of Planning shall check the submittal for
completeness; if incomplete, it shall be returned to the Clerk, the filing date
shall be voided and the subdivider so notified. If complete and if the final
plat substantially conforms to the approved preliminary plat, the Director of
Planning shall summarize his or her recommendations for presentation to the
Planning Commission.
         (b)   If, in the opinion of the Director of Planning, the final plat
does not substantially conform to the approved preliminary plat, the plat shall
be presented to the Subdivision Committee for its recommendation to the
Planning Commission.
      (4)   Final plat approval and recordation.
         (a)   Upon notification from the Director of Planning that the plat is
in order, the Town Clerk shall enter the case on the agenda of the next regular
meeting of the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall submit its
recommendation to the Council.
         (b)   The case shall then be placed on the agenda for the next regular
Council meeting, whereupon the Council shall approve or reject the plat.
            1.   If the Council rejects the plat for any reason whatever, the
reasons therefor shall be recorded in the minutes.
            2.   If the Council approves the plat, the Town Clerk shall
transcribe a certificate of approval upon the plat, first making sure that the
other certificates required in §
155.018(B)(5) have been duly executed.
         (c)   If the plat is approved, the Town Clerk shall then record the
plat in the County Recorder’s office. The recordation fees shall be paid by the
subdivider. Two copies of the recorded plat shall be retained in the
Subdivision Committee’s file.
      (5)   Information required for final plat submission.
         (a)   Medium of presentation.
            1.   The final plat shall be drawn in permanent non-smearing ink on
linen, plastic or other non-shrinking, translucent, reproducible archive
quality material on a sheet or sheets of 24- by 36-inch proportions. Plats
containing adhesive applications will not be accepted;
            2.   The plat shall be drawn to an accurate engineering scale of
not more than 100 feet to an inch; and
            3.   Copies of the final plat shall be reproduced in the form of
blueline or black ink prints on a white background.
         (b)   Identification data.
            1.   Name of subdivision and location by section, township, range
and county;
            2.   Name, address, registration number and seal of the registered
professional engineer or registered land surveyor preparing the plat; and
            3.   Scale, north point and date of plat preparation.
         (c)   Survey data.
            1.   Boundaries of the tract fully balanced and closed, showing all
bearings and distances, determined by an accurate survey in the field; all
dimensions expressed in feet and decimals thereof;
            2.   Any exceptions within the plat boundaries located by bearings
and distances expressed in feet and decimals thereof, determined by an accurate
survey in the field;
            3.   Location and description of cardinal points to which all
dimensions, angles, bearings and similar data on the plat are referenced; two
corners of the subdivision traverse shall be tied by course and distance to
separate section corners or quarter section corners; and
            4.   Location and description of all physical encroachments upon
the boundaries of the tract.
         (d)   Descriptive data.
            1.   Name, right-of-way lines, courses, lengths, width of all
public streets, alleys, crosswalks and utility easements; radii, points of
tangency and central angles of all curvilinear streets and alleys and radii of
all rounded street intersections;
            2.   All drainageways, designated as such and dedicated to the
public;
            3.   All utility and public service easements, including any
limitations of easements; construction within such easements shall be limited
to utilities, landscaping and wood, wire or removable section type fences;
            4.   Location and all dimensions of all lots;
            5.   All lots numbered consecutively throughout the plat;
exceptions and tracts shall be dimensioned and identified by letter or number;
            6.   Location, dimensions, bearings, radii, arcs and central angles
of all sites to be dedicated to the public and the use specified;
            7.   Location of all adjoining subdivisions with date, book and
page number of recordation noted, or if unrecorded, so marked; and
            8.   Any private deed restrictions to be imposed upon the plat or
any part thereof, typewritten and attached to the plan and to each copy
thereof.
         (e)   Dedication and acknowledgment. Statement of dedication of all
streets, alleys, crosswalks, drainageways and easements for public purposes by
the owners and spouses of the owners; if lands to be dedicated are mortgaged,
the mortgagee shall also sign the plat.
            1.   Dedication shall include a written description by section,
township and range of the tract.
            2.   If the plat contains private streets, public utilities shall
be reserved the right to install and maintain utilities in the street rights-
of-way.
         (f)   Certifications.
            1.   Certification by the registered professional engineer or
registered land surveyor making the plat that it is correct and accurate, and
that the monuments described in it have been located as described;
            2.   Certificates of approval by the Planning Commission;
            3.   Certificate of approval of the Council by the Town Clerk; and
            4.   Certification of recordation by the County Recorder.
(Ord. 01-95, passed 9-21-1995)
SUBDIVISION DESIGN PRINCIPLES AND STANDARDS
§ 155.030  CONFORM TO REQUIREMENTS.
   Every subdivision shall conform to requirements and objectives of the
general plan, or any parts thereof, as adopted by the Council, to the Town
Zoning Code, to other ordinances and regulations of the town, and to the state
statutes, as amended.
(Ord. 01-95, passed 9-21-1995)
§ 155.031  PUBLIC SITES.
   Where the tract contains all or any part of the site of a school, park or
other public site, as shown on the general plan or as recommended by the
Council, such site shall either be dedicated to the public or reserved for
acquisition by the public within a specified period of time. An agreement shall
be reached between the subdivider and the appropriate public commission
regarding time, method and cost of such acquisition. In the event of failure to
reach such agreement within a reasonable period of time for reasons
satisfactory to the Council, the Council may determine that requirements of
this section have been met.
(Ord. 01-95, passed 9-21-1995)
§ 155.032  LAND UNSUITABLE FOR PROPOSED USE.
   (A)   Land subject to periodic flooding or land which cannot be properly
drained or other land which, in the opinion of the Subdivision Committee, is
unsuitable for the proposed use, shall not be subdivided; however, upon
recommendation of the Subdivision Committee, the Council may approve
subdivision of such land upon receipt of evidence from a registered civil
engineer, that the construction of specific improvements can be expected to
render the land useable, in which event construction upon such land shall be
prohibited until the specified improvements have been planned in an acceptable
manner and construction has been guaranteed. All requirements of the town’s
floodplain provisions (Chapter 154) shall be met.
   (B)   The developer shall include within his or her drainage study; proof of
compliance with the floodplain provisions (§
154.053), as well as a statement and supporting calculations to identify the
effects of the proposed development on the quantity and rate of storm water
runoff. The developer shall also prove that the proposed development will have
no detrimental impact on down stream neighbors (both public and private) due to
increased runoff. This may be accomplished through provision of facilities for
on-site retention and/or detention of runoff and/or proper on and off-site
channelization of the base flood storm runoff to an extent necessary, as
determined by the Town Engineer, to ensure safe and complete conveyance. It
shall be the developer’s responsibility to obtain all easements and/or rights-
of-way for these purposes, and to assume responsibility for maintenance of same
unless ownership and maintenance by the town or some other legal entity is
specifically accepted.
(Ord. 01-95, passed 9-21-1995)
§ 155.033  STREET LOCATION AND ARRANGEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever the tract embraces any part of a street designated in the
adopted major streets and thoroughfares plan, such street shall be platted in
conformity therewith.
   (B)   Street layout shall provide for the construction of existing collector
streets in adjacent areas and such other streets as the Subdivision Committee
may designate.
   (C)   Whenever the tract is located within an area for which a neighborhood
plan has been approved by the Planning Commission, the street arrangement shall
conform substantially to that plan.
   (D)   Certain proposed streets, as designated by the Subdivision Committee,
shall be extended to the tract boundary to provide future connections with
adjoining unplatted lands. In general, these extensions should not be farther
apart than the maximum permitted length of a block. See §
155.034(E).
   (E)   Local streets shall be so arranged as to discourage their use by
traffic originating outside the immediate area.
   (F)   When a proposed subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed
arterial route, the Subdivision Committee may require marginal access streets
or reverse frontage with non-access easements along the arterial route or such
other treatment as may be justified for protection of properties from the
nuisance and hazard of high volume traffic and for preservation of the traffic
function of the arterial route.
   (G)   When a residential subdivision abuts the right-of-way of a railroad or
limited access highway or abuts a commercial or industrial land use, the
Subdivision Committee may recommend location of a street approximately parallel
to such right-of-way or use at a distance suitable for appropriate use of
intervening land, such distance being determined with due regard for approach
grades, drainage, bridges or future grade separations.
   (H)   Streets shall be so arranged in relation to existing topography as to
produce desirable lots of maximum utility and streets of reasonable gradient,
and to facilitate adequate drainage.
   (I)   Except when alleys are justified by special conditions, they are not
considered appropriate in residential subdivisions; however, continuation to a
logical outlet of an existing dead end alley in an adjoining subdivision and
the extension of an existing alley pattern where underground utilities are
located in alleys shall be considered justifying conditions. When alleys are
platted, the alley alignment and arrangement shall be such as to provide
optimum convenience for truck service circulation and to avoid alley openings
opposite fronts of residential lots. Alleys shall be required at the rear of
multi-family residential, commercial or industrial developments; except where,
in the opinion of the Subdivision Committee, other provision is made for
adequate permanent access for purposes of fire protection, parking and loading.
   (J)   Half streets are discouraged except where necessary to provide rights-
of-way required by the major streets and thoroughfares plan, to complete a
street pattern already begun or to ensure reasonable development of an
adjoining unplatted parcel. Where a half street exists abutting the tract and
said half street furnishes the sole access to residential lots, the remaining
half street shall be platted within the tract.
   (K)   All street dedications must be accepted by the Council.
(Ord. 01-95, passed 9-21-1995)
§ 155.034  STREET DESIGN.
   (A)   Minimum required right-of-way widths.
      (1)   Principal and major arterial right-of-way widths shall be
determined by the Town Engineer prior to submittal of a preliminary plat. The
right-of-way requirement shall be based on the standards set forth in the
general plan as mitigated by existing conditions of topography, traffic volume
and traffic flow.
      (2)   Collector streets: 60 feet.
      (3)   Local streets:
         (a)   Local streets serving single-family residences only: 50 feet.
         (b)   Local streets serving multi-family, commercial or industrial
frontages: 60 feet.
         (c)   Cul-de-sac streets shall terminate in a circular 50-foot radius
right-of-way, with an improved traffic turning circle at least 40 feet in
radius, or the Council may approve an alternate, yet equally convenient turn
around configuration justified by unique or extraordinary conditions. Under no
circumstances will a paved radius of deficient dimension for the access and
maneuvering of emergency vehicles be allowed.
      (4)   Maximum length of cul-de-sac street: 600 feet measured along the
street centerline from the intersection of right-of-way lines to the radius
point of the turning circle.
      (5)   Alleys: 16 feet when there is residential property on both sides or
20 feet when abutting commercial or industrial districts.
         (a)   Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall be
avoided, but, where necessary, corners shall be cut off ten feet on each side
to permit safe vehicular movement.
         (b)   Dead end alleys shall be prohibited.
         (c)   All “half” alleys shall have a minimum width of 12 feet.
      (6)   Dead-end streets shall not be approved except in locations
designated by the Planning Commission as necessary for connection to adjacent
unplatted lands. In any case, a dead-end street serving more than four lots
shall provide, by easement, a temporary turning circle with a 40-foot radius or
other acceptable design to accomplish the same purpose.
      (7)   Street widths:
 
Type of Streets Graded Section Pavement Width With Curbs Type of Curbs
Collector       50 feet        50 feet                   Standard/roll
Cul-de-sac      32 feet        36 feet                   Roll
Frontage        32 feet        40 feet                   Roll
Hillside        32 feet        40 feet                   Roll
Local           32 feet        40 feet                   Roll
 
      (8)   Pavement structural section design: all pavements constructed
within rights-of-way which are to be dedicated to the town shall be as per the
recommendations and design of an Arizona Registered Geotechnical or Civil
Engineer.
         (a)   The subdivider shall submit to the Town Engineer a full report
of the soils sampling and testing program conducted by the registrant, along
with the registrants’ design recommendations and supporting calculations.
         (b)   The pavement subgrade preparation, base course and surfacing
design recommendations must be approved by the Town Engineer as a part of the
subdivision improvement plan review and approval process.
      (9)   Concrete curb and gutter and sidewalks required: all streets shall
be constructed with Portland cement concrete curb and gutter along the pavement
edge, with sidewalks located behind the back of curb. All curb and gutter and
sidewalk design and construction shall conform with the requirements of the
current M.A.G. Standard Details and Specifications for Public Works
Construction.
   (B)   Grades.
      (1)   Maximum grades.
         (a)   Collector streets: 7%; and
         (b)   Local streets: 10%.
      (2)   Minimum grades. Concrete or asphalt streets with concrete gutters:
0.5%.
   (C)   Vertical curves. Collector and local streets minimum length: 100 feet.
   (D)   Horizontal alignment.
      (1)   When tangent centerlines deflect from each other more than ten
degrees and less than 90 degrees, they shall be connected by a curve with a
minimum centerline radius of 500 feet for collector streets, or 150 feet for
local streets.
      (2)   Between reverse curves there shall be a tangent section of
centerline not less than 100 feet long.
      (3)   Streets intersecting an arterial route shall do so at a 90-degree
angle; local streets shall typically intersect at right angles, but in no case
at less than 75 degrees.
      (4)   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 125 feet shall be
avoided, except where unique or extraordinary conditions may justify
modification as approved by the Planning Commission.
      (5)   Local streets intersecting a collector street or arterial route
shall have a tangent section of the centerline at least 150 feet in length
measured from the right-of-way line of the major street; except that no such
tangent is required when the local street curve has a centerline radius greater
than 400 feet measured from a center located in the major street right-of-way
line.
      (6)   Street intersections with more than four legs and Y-type
intersection with legs meeting at acute angles shall be prohibited.
      (7)   Street line intersections shall be rounded by a circular arc having
a minimum tangent length of 12 feet.
   (E)   Maximum block length. Fifteen hundred feet measured along the
centerline of the street and between intersecting street centerlines; except
that in subdivisions where lot areas average one-half acre or more, this
maximum may be exceeded by 500 feet.
(Ord. 01-95, passed 9-21-1995)
§ 155.035  CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   All construction within the public right-of-way shall conform to the latest
edition of the Uniform Standard Details for Public Works Construction and the
Uniform Standard Specifications for Public Works Construction, published by the
Maricopa Association of Governments (MAG).
(Ord. 01-95, passed 9-21-1995)
§ 155.036  LOT PLANNING.
   (A)   (1)   Lot width, depth and area shall comply with the minimum
requirements of the zoning code; however, where drainage problems exist or
prevail, the subdivision committee may require special lot width, depth and
area exceeding minimum requirements of the zoning district.
      (2)   Depth to width ratio of the useable area of a lot shall usually be
not greater than three to one.
   (B)   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles or radial to
street lines, except where other treatment can be justified.
   (C)   Every lot shall abut upon a public street furnishing satisfactory
access to another existing public street; except that where special
circumstances justify, private streets may be permitted, provided that they are
constructed to standards acceptable to the Subdivision Committee, are contained
in a permanent private easement and responsibility for continued maintenance is
vested in a corporation of lot owners.
   (D)   Single-family residential lots extending through the block and having
frontage on two non-intersecting streets shall be prohibited. Reverse frontage
along any street shall be prohibited except where expressly permitted in
accordance with §
155.033(F), or where otherwise justified in the opinion of the Subdivision
Committee.
(Ord. 01-95, passed 9-21-1995)
§ 155.037  EASEMENT PLANNING.
   (A)   Easements for utilities shall be provided as follows.
      (1)   Where alleys are provided: four feet for aerial overhang on each
side of alley, provided for by dedication but not delineated on plat.
      (2)   Where no alley is provided: six feet on each side of rear lot
lines.
      (3)   Along side lot lines: six feet on each side of lot line and
approximately 35 feet in length measured from the rear lot line in locations
designated by the public utility.
   (B)   For lots facing on curvilinear streets, utility easements or alleys
shall usually consist of a series of straight lines with points of deflection
not less than 120 feet apart, said points of deflection always occurring at the
junction of side and rear lot lines on the side of the exterior angle; however,
curvilinear easements or alleys may be employed, providing that the minimum
radii of centerlines are not less than 800 feet.
   (C)   Where an important surface drainage course abuts or crosses the tract,
dedication of a public drainageway of a width sufficient to permit widening,
deepening, relocating or protecting such drainage course shall be required.
   (D)   Land within a public street or drainageway, or land within an easement
for major power transmission (tower) lines or pipelines shall not be considered
a part of the useable lot area except where lots exceed one-half acre in area;
provided that this shall not be applicable to land included in utility
easements for distribution or service purposes.
   (E)   Lots arranged to back to major streets, railroads or commercial or
industrial districts, as provided in §
155.033(F), shall have a recorded non-access private easement one foot wide
along the rear lot line.
(Ord. 01-95, passed 9-21-1995)
§ 155.038  STREET NAMES.
   Street names shall be consistent with natural alignment and extension of
existing named streets; new street names shall not duplicate or be closely
similar to any existing street name.
(Ord. 01-95, passed 9-21-1995)
STREET AND UTILITY IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS
§ 155.050  PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to establish in outline the minimum
acceptable standards for improvement of public streets and utilities, to define
the responsibility of the subdivider in the planning, construction, and
financing of public improvements, and to establish procedures for review and
approval of engineering plans.
(Ord. 01-95, passed 9-21-1995)
§ 155.051  RESPONSIBILITY FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The planning, construction and financing of all required sidewalks,
curbs, gutters, pavement, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, water mains, fire
hydrants, drainage structures and street lights shall be the responsibility of
the subdivider and shall comply with public improvement standards approved by
the town. The town will not consider allowing a subdivider to meet the
requirements of this section by participation in a town improvement district.
   (B)   Schedule of required improvements: improvements required by this
section shall be set forth according to the following schedule.
   (C)   Ribbon curbs shall be allowed in subdivisions having a minimum lot
size of 21,500 square feet when, in the opinion of the Subdivision Committee,
they are the preferable curb system in terms of drainage and the use of ribbon
curbs will not compromise the function of structural integrity of the roadway,
nor unnecessarily create additional maintenance costs for the town. The
subdivider shall be responsible for providing the necessary engineering
documentation to support the use of ribbon curbs.
(Ord. 01-95, passed 9-21-1995)
§ 155.052  ENGINEERING PLANS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall be responsible for having a registered engineer
prepare a complete set of engineering plans, satisfactory to the Town Engineer,
for construction of required improvements. Such plans shall be based on the
approved preliminary plat and be prepared in conjunction with the final plat.
The Engineer shall not be the Town Engineer nor any engineer retained by or
operating as an independent contractor on behalf of the town. Engineering plans
shall have been approved by the Town Engineer prior to approval of the final
plat and shall be within specifications of the town and in accordance with good
engineering practices.
   (B)   The subdivider shall pay a plan review fee in an amount established by
resolution of the Council for plans submitted pursuant to this chapter. Said
fee shall be paid upon submittal of the plans.
(Ord. 01-95, passed 9-21-1995)
§ 155.053  CONSTRUCTION AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   All improvements in the public right-of-way shall be constructed under
inspection and approval of the Town Engineer. Construction shall not be
commenced until a permit has been issued for such construction, and if work has
been discontinued for any reason, it shall not be resumed until after notifying
the Town Engineer in advance.
   (B)   All underground utilities to be installed in streets shall be
constructed prior to the surfacing of such streets. Service stubs to platted
lots within the subdivision for underground utilities shall be placed the
right-of-way line as to avoid disturbance of street improvements when service
connections are made.
(Ord. 01-95, passed 9-21-1995)
§ 155.054  REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   Street and utility improvements shall be designed and constructed in
compliance with adopted public improvement standards in accordance with the
adopted schedule of improvement requirements.
(Ord. 01-95, passed 9-21-1995)
§ 155.055  SUBMITTAL, REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF ENGINEERING PLANS.
   Two sets of engineering plans and specifications for the installation of
required streets, sewer, electric and water utilities; drainage; street lights;
flood control; adequacy of water and improvements shall be filed with the Town
Engineer simultaneously with filing of the final plat. Plans shall be reviewed
by the Town Engineer and a certificate of approval filed with the Town Clerk
prior to recordation of the plat. If engineering plans have not been approved
within 90 days after approval of the final plat, the Council may require that
the final plat be resubmitted.
(Ord. 01-95, passed 9-21-1995)
§ 155.056  ASSURANCE OF CONSTRUCTION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   To ensure the construction of the required improvements, the
subdivider shall deposit with the Town Engineer an amount in cash or a surety
bond equal to the amount of the cost of the work of each recorded increment (as
determined by the Town Engineer) guaranteeing that the work will be completed
in accordance with town details and specifications. The Town Engineer shall
give the applicant his or her receipt for each deposit.
   (B)   The surety bond shall be executed by the subdivider, as principal,
with a corporation duly authorized to transact surety business in the state, as
surety. The bond shall be in favor of the town, shall be continuous in form,
and shall be conditioned that the total aggregate liability of the surety for
all claims shall be limited to the face amount of the bond, irrespective of the
number of years the bond is in force. The bond or cash shall be released upon
satisfactory performance and acceptance of the work by the Town Engineer, or
the bond may be cancelled or the cash withdrawn by the subdivider; provided,
that other security satisfactory to the town has been deposited which will
cover the obligations of the subdivider which remain to be performed.
   (C)   In lieu of providing assurance of construction in the manner provided
above, the subdivider may provide assurance of construction of subdivision
improvements of the recorded plat by delivering to the Town Engineer prior to
the recording of said plat an appropriate agreement between an approved lending
institution and the subdivider, stating that funds sufficient to cover the
entire cost of installing the subdivision improvements, including engineering
and inspection costs, and the cost of replacement or repairs of any existing
streets or improvements damaged by the subdivider in the course of development
of the subdivision, in an amount approved by the Town Engineer, have been
deposited with such approved lending institution, or have been committed to be
loaned by such lending institution to the subdivider. Such agreement shall
provide that such funds in the stated amount are specifically allocated, and
will be used by the subdivider or on his or her behalf, only for the purpose of
installing the subdivision improvements. The town shall be the beneficiary of
such agreement, or the subdivider’s rights thereunder shall be assigned to the
town and the Town Engineer shall approve each disbursement of any such funds.
The agreement may also contain terms, conditions and provisions normally
included by such lending institutions in loan commitments for construction
funds, or as may be necessary to comply with statutes and regulations
applicable to such lending institutions.
(Ord. 01-95, passed 9-21-1995)
MODIFICATION
§ 155.070  EXTRAORDINARY CONDITIONS.
   Where there exist extraordinary conditions of topography, land ownership,
adjacent development or other similar circumstances not provided for in this
chapter, the Subdivision Committee may, upon request of the subdivider,
recommend modification of the enforcement of this chapter in such manner and to
such extent as it deems appropriate to the public interest. Recommendation for
modification of the provisions of this chapter shall be clearly noted in the
Subdivision Committee’s report regarding both the preliminary plat and final
plat.
(Ord. 01-95, passed 9-21-1995)
§ 155.071  APPEAL AND HEARING.
   In the event that an appeal for modification of enforcement of this chapter
does not receive affirmative action by the Subdivision Committee, the
subdivider may file such appeal with the Town Clerk and, upon hearing, the
Council may make such modifications as it deems proper. The Subdivision
Committee shall be represented at such hearing and make known to the Council
its recommendations and reasons for denial of the appeal.
(Ord. 01-95, passed 9-21-1995)
§ 155.072  ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   In modifying the standards or requirements set forth in this chapter, as
provided above, the Subdivision Committee, the Planning Commission and the
Council may make such additional requirements as are deemed necessary to secure
substantially the objectives of the standards or requirements so modified.
(Ord. 01-95, passed 9-21-1995)
CHAPTER 156:  ZONING CODE
Section
   
156.01   Adoption by reference; contact Clerk to view copy
§ 156.01  ADOPTION BY REFERENCE; CONTACT CLERK TO VIEW COPY.
   The Zoning Code of the town is published separately, and is hereby adopted
by reference and incorporated into this code as fully as if set out at length
herein. A copy is available for public view in the office of the Town Clerk.
(Ord. 03-2018, passed 4-12-2018; Ord. 01-2021, passed 3-4-2021)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I:  FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
03-2000  5-11-2000   Grants to Cable One, Inc., a cable television system
                     franchise
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Arizona Revised Statutes
References to 1990 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ARIZONA REVISED STATUTES
A.R.S. Reference Code Section
A.R.S. Reference                                 Code Section
1-211—1-215                                    10.05
9-240(B)(28)(b)                                  34.99
9-461(3)                                         31.20
9-499                                            93.10
9-500.12                                         155.004
9-500.13                                         155.004
9-505                                            113.03
9-506, Subsection I                              113.03
9-581                                            113.02
9-582 (C)                                        112.03
9-584, 22 subsection E                           113.03
Title 9, Chapter 5, Articles 1.1 and 8           113.01,
                                                 113.03
Title 9, Chapter 5, Article 7                    112.02
11-811                                           155.004
12-821                                           32.21
13-2810                                          10.99
13-2910                                          90.061
13-2910.01                                       90.061
16-204                                           30.045
Title 22, Chapter 2, Article 4                   34.17
22-421 et seq.                                   34.02
Title 28                                         74.01
Title 28 et seq.                                 74.01
28-873                                           72.09
28-881                                           72.07
Title 28, Chapter 5, Article 3                   70.99
28-1551 et seq.                                  70.99
Title 28, Chapter 5, Article 4                   70.99
28-1591 et seq.                                  70.99
28-4832                                          93.01
37-610                                           154.071
38-260                                           30.007
38-503(C)                                        33.10
Title 34                                         33.01
39-204                                           151.29
Title 40, Chapter 2, Article 6.2                 154.021
Title 41, Chapter 9, Article 3                   151.06
41-1750                                          114.02
44-1201                                          51.24
Title 45, Chapter 6                              154.021
Title 48, Chapters 11, 12, 17, 18, 19, 20 and 22 113.03
Title 48, Chapter 21, Article 1                  154.021
48-3609                                          154.001
48-3609(I)                                       154.021
48-3610                                          154.001
48-3613                                          154.021,
                                                 154.024
48-3613(B)                                       154.021
48-3613(C)                                       154.021
48-3613(D)                                       154.021
49-852                                           50.05
49-851(5)                                        50.05
                                                 
 
REFERENCES TO 1990 CODE
1990 Code 2017 Code
1990 Code 2017 Code
2-1-1     30.001
2-1-2     30.002
2-1-3     30.003
2-1-4     30.004
2-1-5     30.005
2-1-6     30.006
2-1-7     30.007
2-1-8     30.008
2-2-1     30.020
2-2-2     30.021
2-2-3     30.022
2-2-4     30.023
2-2-5     30.024
2-2-6     30.025
2-2-7     30.026
2-2-8     30.027
2-2-9     30.028
2-3-1     30.040
2-3-2     30.041
2-3-3     30.042
2-3-4     30.043
2-3-5     30.044
2-4-1     30.060
2-4-2     30.061
2-4-3     30.062
2-4-4     30.063
2-4-5     30.064
2-4-6     30.065
2-4-7     30.066
2-4-8     30.067
2-4-9     30.068
2-5-1     30.080
2-5-2     30.081
2-5-3     30.082
2-5-4     30.083
2-5-5     30.084
2-5-7     30.085
2-5-8     30.086
2-7-1     31.20
2-7-2     31.21
3-1-1     32.01
3-1-2     32.02
3-1-3     32.03
3-1-4     32.04
3-1-5     32.05
3-2-1     32.20
3-2-2     32.21
3-2-3     32.22
3-2-4     32.23
3-2-5     32.24
3-2-6     32.25
3-2-7     32.26
3-3-1     32.40
3-3-2     32.41
3-3-3     32.42
3-3-4     32.43
3-4-1     33.01
3-4-2     33.02
3-4-3     33.03
3-4-4     33.04
3-4-5     33.05
3-4-6     33.06
3-4-7     33.07
3-4-8     33.08
3-4-9     33.09
3-4-10    33.10
4-1-1     35.01
4-1-2     35.02
4-1-3     35.03
4-1-4     35.04
4-1-5     35.05
4-1-6     35.06
4-1-7     35.07
4-3-1     35.20
4-3-2     35.21
4-3-3     35.22
4-3-4     35.23
4-3-5     35.24
4-3-6     35.25
4-3-7     35.26
4-3-8     35.27
4-3-9     35.28
4-3-10    35.29
4-3-11    35.30
5-1-1     34.01
5-2-1     34.15
5-2-2     34.16
5-2-3     34.17
5-3-1     34.02
7-6-1     151.25
7-6-2     151.26
7-6-3     151.27
7-6-4     151.28
7-6-5     151.29
7-6-6     151.30
7-6-7     151.31
7-6-8     151.32
7-7       151.04
8-1-1     111.01
8-1-2     111.02
8-2-1     110.01
8-2-2     110.02
8-2-3     110.03
8-2-4     110.04
8-2-5     110.05
8-2-6     110.06
8-2-7     110.07
8-2-8     110.08
8-2-9     110.09
8-2-10    110.10
10-3-1    94.01
10-3-2    94.02
10-3-3    94.03
10-3-4    94.04
11-1-1    130.01
11-1-2    130.02
11-1-3    130.03
11-1-4    130.04
11-1-5    130.05
11-1-6    130.06
11-1-7    130.07
11-1-8    130.08
11-1-9    130.09
11-1-10   130.10
11-1-11   130.11
11-1-12   130.12
11-1-13   130.13
11-1-14   130.14
11-1-15   130.15
11-1-16   130.16
11-1-17   130.17
11-1-18   130.18
11-1-19   130.19
11-1-20   130.20
11-1-21   130.21
11-1-22   130.22
12-1-1    70.01
12-1-2    70.02
12-1-3    70.03
12-1-4    70.04
12-1-5    70.05
12-1-6    70.06
12-2-1    71.01
12-2-2    71.02
12-2-3    71.03
12-2-4    71.04
12-2-5    71.05
12-2-6    71.06
12-2-7    71.07
12-2-8    71.08
12-2-9    71.09
12-2-10   71.10
12-2-11   71.11
12-2-12   71.12
12-3-1    72.01
12-3-2    72.02
12-3-3    72.03
12-3-4    72.04
12-3-5    72.05
12-3-6    72.06
12-3-7    72.07
16-1-1    153.01
16-1-2    153.02
16-1-3    153.03
16-1-4    153.04
16-1-5    153.05
16-1-6    153.06
16-1-7    153.07
16-1-8    153.08
16-1-9    153.09
16-1-10   153.10
16-1-11   153.11
16-1-12   153.12
16-1-13   153.13
16-1-14   153.14
          
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
2004-07  12-9-2004   73.01,
                     73.02
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     51.01—
                     51.03,
                     51.15—
03-92    9-28-1992   51.23,
                     51.40—
                     51.49,
                     51.60—
                     51.66
01-93    2-11-1993   30.045
02-93    4-8-1993    36.01
03-93    6-10-1993   110.02,
                     110.03
01-94    9-8-1994    110.09,
                     110.10
02-94    1-12-1995   36.01
                     155.001—
                     155.004,
                     155.015—
                     155.019,
01-95    9-21-1995   155.030—
                     155.038,
                     155.050—
                     155.056,
                     155.070—
                     155.072
                     152.01—
01-96    3-14-1996   152.13,
                     152.99
02-96    12-12-1996  36.01
02-98    5-14-1998   34.03
04-98    6-11-1998   36.01
01-99    12-9-1999   36.01
03-2000  5-11-2000   TSO, Table I
02-2001  11-8-2001   36.01
02-2002  8-8-2002    153.01—
                     153.14
03-2002  11-14-2002  35.01—
                     35.07
01-2003  5-8-2003    36.01
02-2003  11-13-2003  130.19
03-2003  1-8-2004    112.01—
                     112.03
01-2004  4-8-2004    50.01—
                     50.10
02-2004  4-8-2004    51.20,
                     51.24
01-2005  3-10-2005   74.01
02-2005  11-10-2005  36.01
01-2006  4-13-2006   36.01
02-2006  7-13-2006   36.01
03-2006  7-13-2006   110.08
02-2006  12-14-2006  50.01—
                     50.07
03-2006  1-11-2007   36.01
                     154.001—
                     154.004,
                     154.015—
                     154.024,
01-2007  9-13-2007   154.037,
                     154.050,
                     154.051,
                     154.054,
                     154.055,
                     154.071
01-2008  5-8-2008    36.01
                     10.05,
01-2009  5-14-2009   10.99,
                     70.99
                     71.13,
02-2009  5-14-2009   72.02,
                     72.08—
                     72.13
04-2009  11-12-2009  36.01
01-2010  4-8-2010    91.01
02-2010  5-13-2010   150.01
                     151.01—
04-2010  7-8-2010    151.03,
                     151.05—
                     151.10
02-2011  9-8-2011    36.01
03-2011  1-12-2012   30.004
01-2012  5-3-2012    30.067
02-2012  5-3-2012    34.15
03-2012  11-15-2012  50.10
04-12    1-10-2013   33.01
                     51.16,
01-2013  7-11-2013   51.24,
                     51.25
                     30.040,
03-2013  11-14-2013  30.042,
                     30.045
01-2014  5-8-2014    50.06
02-2014  6-12-2014   154.050
01-2016  5-12-2016   30.040
                     10.99,
                     30.027,
                     34.99,
                     50.10,
                     51.20,
                     70.99,
01-2017  4-13-2017   72.12,
                     90.033,
                     90.063,
                     110.03,
                     130.19,
                     152.99,
                     153.06
02-2017  4-13-2017   71.14
03-2017  4-13-2017   93.01—
                     93.15
05-2017  8-10-2017   51.24
                     112.01,
                     112.02,
01-2018  2-8-2018    113.01—
                     113.07 ,
                     113.99
02-2018  3-8-2018    114.01—
                     114.07
03-2018  4-12-2018   156.01
04-2018  11-15-2018  30.060
01-2019  2-14-2018   151.11
                     154.001—
                     154.004,
                     154.015—
                     154.024,
02-2019  3-14-2019   154.035—
                     154.037,
                     154.050—
                     154.055,
                     154.070—
                     154.072
03-2019  9-12-2019   33.09
06-2019  1-9-2020    113.03 -
                     113.06
01-2020  5-14-2020   36.01
01-2021  3-4-2021    156.01
                    
 
