COOLIDGE, ARIZONA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation through Ord. 23-13, passed 12-11-2023
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   CIVIL CODE ENFORCEMENT FOR VIOLATION OF CITY CODE
CHAPTER 10: CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   How code designated and cited
   
10.02   Construction of ordinances
   
10.03   Interpretation and definitions
   
10.04   Additional rules of construction
   
10.05   References to this code
   
10.06   Conflicting provisions
   
10.07   Section headings
   
10.08   Effect of repeal
   
10.09   Severability of parts of code
   
10.10   Repeal of existing ordinances; effective date of repeal
   
10.11   Ordinances exempt from repeal
   
10.12   Effective date of code
   
10.13   City seal
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall
constitute and be designated as the “Code of the City of Coolidge, Arizona”,
and may be so cited. Such code may also be cited as the “Coolidge City Code”.
(Prior Code, § 1-1)
§ 10.02 CONSTRUCTION OF ORDINANCES.
   The rules and the definitions set forth in this chapter shall be observed in
the construction of this code and the ordinances of the City unless such
construction would be inconsistent with either the manifest intent of the
Council or the context of this code or the ordinances of the City.
(Prior Code, § 1-2)
§ 10.03 INTERPRETATION AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Interpretation.
      (1)   The present tense includes the past and future tenses, and the
future includes the present.
      (2)   OR may be read AND, AND may be read OR, if the sense requires it.
      (3)   Whenever the words HE or SHE is used, it shall be construed to
include both sexes.
      (4)   Whenever any “department, board commission, office, officer or
employee” is referred to, it shall mean a department, board, commission,
office, officer, or employee of the City, unless the context clearly indicates
otherwise.
   (B)   Definitions. All words and phrases shall be constructed and understood
according to the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar
and appropriate meaning.
      ACTS BY AGENTS. When an ordinance requires an act to be done which may by
law as well be done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be
construed to include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
      CITY. The City of Coolidge, Arizona.
      CODE, THE CODE, or THIS CODE. The Code of the City of Coolidge, Arizona
unless the text indicates otherwise.
      COUNCIL. The Common Council of the City of Coolidge, Arizona.
      COUNTY. The County of Pinal, Arizona.
      OATH. Includes affirmation or declaration.
      PERSON. Extend to and shall be applied to firm, corporations, or
voluntary associations, as well as to individuals, unless plainly inapplicable.
      PRECEDING, FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION BY MARK. Includes a mark when the signer cannot
write, such signer’s or subscriber’s name being written near the mark by a
witness who writes his or her own name near the signer’s or subscriber’s name;
but a SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION BY MARK can be acknowledged or can serve as a
signature or subscription to a sworn statement only when two witnesses so sign
their names thereto.
      STATE. The State of Arizona.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to a building or land, shall include any
person holding a written or an oral lease or who occupies the whole or part of
such building or land, either alone or with others.
      TIME (COMPUTATION). The time within which an act is to be done as
provided in this code or in any order issued pursuant to any ordinance, when
expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including
the last, except that if the last day is Sunday or a holiday, it shall be
excluded; and when such time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday or a
holiday, from 12:00 midnight to 12:00 midnight, shall be excluded.
      TIME (REASONABLE). In all cases where any section of this code shall
require any act to be done in a reasonable time or reasonable notice to be
given, such REASONABLE TIME OR NOTICE shall be deemed to mean such time only as
may be necessary for the prompt performance of such duty, or compliance with
such notice.
      WEEK. A week consists of seven consecutive days.
      YEAR. A calendar year, except where otherwise provided.
(Prior Code, § 1-3)
Statutory reference:
   For definition and construction of statutes generally, see A.R.S. §§ 1-211
to 1-215
§ 10.04 ADDITIONAL RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   In addition to the rules of construction specified in §
10.03, the rules set forth in §§
10.05 and
10.06 shall be observed in the construction of this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-1)
§ 10.05 REFERENCES TO THIS CODE.
   All references to chapters, subchapters, or sections are to the chapters,
subchapters, and sections of this code unless otherwise specified.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-2)
§ 10.06 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Conflicting provisions; different chapters. If the provisions of
different chapters of this code conflict with or contravene each other, the
provisions of each chapter shall prevail as to all matters and questions
growing out of the subject matter of such chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-3)
   (B)   Conflicting provisions; same chapter. If conflicting provisions are
found in different sections of the same chapters, the provisions of the section
which is the last in numerical order shall prevail unless such construction is
inconsistent with the meaning of such chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-4)
§ 10.07 SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings of the several sections of this code are intended as a convenience
to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be
titles of such section, nor as any part of the section, nor unless expressly so
provided shall they be so deemed when any of such section, including the
headings, is amended or reenacted.
(Prior Code, § 1-5)
§ 10.08 EFFECT OF REPEAL.
   (A)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to revive such
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it shall be expressly so
provided.
   (B)   The repeal of any ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty
incurred before the repeal took effect nor any suit, prosecution, or proceeding
pending at the time of the repeal, for any offense committed under the
ordinance repealed.
(Prior Code, § 1-6)
§ 10.09 SEVERABILITY OF PARTS OF CODE.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Council that the sections,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this code shall be severable,
and if any provision of this code is held unconstitutional or invalid for any
reason by a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not
affect any of the remaining provisions of the code.
(Prior Code, § 1-7)
§ 10.10 REPEAL OF EXISTING ORDINANCES; EFFECTIVE DATE OF REPEAL.
   All ordinances of the City, except those specifically exempted in this
chapter, now in force and effect are hereby repealed immediately upon adoption,
but all rights, duties, and obligations created by said ordinances shall
continue and exist in all respects as if this code had not been adopted and
enacted.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-1)
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES EXEMPT FROM REPEAL.
   The adoption and enactment of this code shall not be construed to repeal or
in any way to affect or modify:
   (A)   Any special ordinance or ordinances regarding franchises, annexations,
dedications, or zoning;
   (B)   Any ordinances making an appropriation;
   (C)   Any ordinances affecting any bond issue or by which any bond issue may
have been authorized;
   (D)   The running of the statutes of limitations in force at the time this
code becomes effective;
   (E)   The continued existence and operation of any department, agency,
commission, or office heretofore legally established or held;
   (F)   Any bond of any public officer;
   (G)   Any taxes, fees, assessments, or other charges incurred or imposed; or
   (H)   Any ordinances authorizing, ratifying, confirming, approving, or
accepting any compact or contract with any other municipality, the state, or
any county or subdivision thereof, or with the United States or any agency or
instrumentality thereof.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-2)
§ 10.12 EFFECTIVE DATE OF CODE.
   Each and every section of this code as herein contained and hereby enacted
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon adoption, except that where
a later effective date is provided, it shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 1-10)
§ 10.13 CITY SEAL.
   The official seal of the City shall be in the common form, not less than one
and one-half inches in diameter with the words “Coolidge Incorporated,
September 24th, 1945” inscribed thereon and with the design as adopted by the
Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-11)
§ 10.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, whenever in this code or in
any ordinance of the City any act is prohibited or is made or is declared to be
unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in such code or ordinance
the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared
unlawful, any person violating any such provisions of this code or any
ordinance of a Class 1 misdemeanor punishable by a fine not exceeding $1,000 or
imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or both such fine and
imprisonment, in the discretion of the City Magistrate. Each day any violation
of any provision of this code or of any ordinance shall continue shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   In addition to the penalties hereinabove provided, any condition
caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this code
or any ordinance shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be, by the City,
abated as provided by law, and each day that such condition continues shall be
regarded as a new and separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 1-8)
Cross-reference:
   Civil code enforcement for violation of City code, see
Ch. 11
CHAPTER 11: CIVIL CODE ENFORCEMENT FOR VIOLATION OF CITY CODE
Section
   
11.01   Purpose
   
11.02   Designation of civil offense
   
11.03   Hearing Officer
   
11.04   Filing a complaint
   
11.05   Hearing procedures
   
11.06   Appeals
§ 11.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for, as an alternative to other
enforcement means, an informal, timely, and efficient process for adjudication
of civil code violations.
(Prior Code, § 20-1)
§ 11.02 DESIGNATION OF CIVIL OFFENSE.
   Violations of the zoning, subdivision, and code ordinances of the City may
be filed under the civil enforcement procedures herein and are declared to be
civil offenses. A person shall not be charged both as a civil and criminal
offense for the same violation on the same date, but a subsequent violation
against the same property or person may be charged as criminal rather than
civil. The City may file a criminal charge against a violator that does not
comply with a civil enforcement action pursuant hereto.
(Prior Code, § 20-2)
§ 11.03 HEARING OFFICER.
   The City Council shall appoint a Hearing Officer to hear and determine
zoning, subdivision, and code violations under the civil violation procedure.
(Prior Code, § 20-3)
§ 11.04 FILING A COMPLAINT.
   (A)   Civil complaints shall be filed using either the Uniform Arizona
Traffic Ticket and Complaint Form, or one substantially similar as approved by
the state’s Supreme Court, which shall cite to this code as well as the
particular division of the zoning, subdivision, or code ordinance applicable to
the alleged violation. Each section of the code cited in the complaint shall be
deemed a separate offense. Complaints may be sworn to by any building inspector
or zoning officer for the City. The citation shall contain the date and time
for the alleged violation, and direct the defendant to appear before the
hearing officer at the specified time to enter a plea either admitting or
denying the complaint.
   (B)   Citations will be served by personal delivery upon the defendant by
the responsible inspector or code enforcement officer, or by registered mail
together with a summons, in the manner set forth in Rule 3.4, Arizona Rules of
Criminal Procedure.
   (C)   The citation will state that if the defendant wishes to admit
responsibility, he or she must correct the violation (if applicable) and pay
$75 within ten days from the date of receipt of the citation or by the date
specified on the citation either in person or by mail to the civil hearing
office. The citation will state that if the defendant fails to correct the
violation (if applicable) and pay the civil penalty on or before the date
specified above or fails to appear at the date specified on the citation, the
hearing officer will enter a default judgment against him or her and impose a
sanction of not less than $75 nor more than $2,500 for each alleged violation.
   (D)   Subpoenas for witnesses shall be prepared and signed at the request of
either the defendant or the City and served by personal service, certified mail
or first class mail, pursuant to A.R.S. § 13-4072, as may be amended.
(Prior Code, § 20-4)
§ 11.05 HEARING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise modified herein, civil enforcement procedures herein
shall follow the state’s Rules of Court for Civil Traffic Violations. Evidence
of the charges in the complaint may be presented by the City Attorney, a code
enforcement officer, or a building inspector. The defendant may present
evidence pro per or through counsel. If the defendant is represented by an
attorney, the attorney shall file a notice of appearance with the City Court at
least five business days prior to the hearing. The defendant will not have a
right to a jury trial.
   (B)   If the Hearing Officer finds that the charges are proven by a
preponderance of the evidence, judgment shall be entered against the defendant
and sanctions imposed in an amount not to exceed $2,500 per violation for each
day a violation exists beyond the initial notice constituting a separate
offense. If the Hearing Officer finds the charges not proven, the case shall be
dismissed.
   (C)   Any sanction shall be imposed immediately, without setting a
sentencing date or probationary period, except that the hearing officer may
allow the defendant a time to pay the sanction not more than 30 days from the
hearing date. If a defendant cannot pay within 30 days from the hearing date,
then the defendant shall enter into an acceptable payment plan to pay the
sanction.
   (D)   Any judgment entered against a defendant may be collected as any other
civil judgment as provided in the Arizona Revised Statutes. In addition, any
judgment entered against a defendant shall constitute a lien against the
defendant’s real property until paid and a copy of the judgment will be filed
with the County Recorder’s office.
(Prior Code, § 20-5)
§ 11.06 APPEALS.
   The defendant may appeal the decision of the Hearing Officer to the Superior
Court, either pursuant to the civil traffic rules or through state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 20-6)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND COUNCIL
      
31.   ADMINISTRATION
      
32.   BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
33.   PUBLIC SAFETY DEPARTMENT
      
34.   MAGISTRATE
      
35.   CITY POLICIES
      
36.   PROCUREMENT CODE
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND COUNCIL
Section
Council Generally
   
30.001   Elected officers
   
30.002   Corporate powers
   
30.003   Duties of office
   
30.004   Vacancies in Council
   
30.005   Compensation
   
30.006   Oath of office
   
30.007   Bond
Mayor
   
30.020   Selection of Vice Mayor
   
30.021   Acting Mayor
   
30.022   Powers and duties of Mayor
   
30.023   Absence of Mayor
   
30.024   Failure to sign documents
Council Elections
   
30.035   Primary election
   
30.036   Non-political ballot
   
30.037   General election nomination
   
30.038   Election to office
   
30.039   Dates of elections
   
30.040   Optional procedure
   
30.041   Non-candidate election dates
Council Procedure
   
30.055   Regular meetings
   
30.056   Special meetings
   
30.057   Meetings to be public
   
30.058   Quorum
   
30.059   Agenda
   
30.060   Order of business
   
30.061   Voting
   
30.062   Suspension of rules
   
30.063   Committees of Council
Ordinances, Resolutions, and Contracts
   
30.075   Prior approval
   
30.076   Introduction
   
30.077   Presentation and passage
   
30.078   Requirements of an ordinance
   
30.079   Effective date of ordinance
   
30.080   Signatures required
   
30.081   Publishing required
   
30.082   Posting required
Financial Disclosure
   
30.095   Definitions
   
30.096   Duty to file financial disclosure statement; exceptions
   
30.097   Duty to file final financial disclosure statement by candidate for
Council
 
   
30.999   Penalty
COUNCIL GENERALLY
§ 30.001 ELECTED OFFICERS.
   The elected officers of the City shall be six Council members and a Mayor.
The Mayor, Vice Mayor, and the Council members shall constitute the Council and
shall continue in office until assumption of office by their duly elected
successors. The six Council members shall serve four-year overlapping terms in
the manner provided by state statute. The Mayor shall serve a two-year term in
the manner provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1) (Ord. 14-09, passed 10-27-2014)
§ 30.002 CORPORATE POWERS.
   The corporate powers of the City shall be vested in the Council and shall be
exercised only as directed or authorized by law. All powers of the Council
shall be exercised by ordinance, resolution, order, or motion.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-2) (Ord. 14-09, passed 10-27-2014)
§ 30.003 DUTIES OF OFFICE.
   Council members and the Mayor shall assume the duties of their respective
offices at the next regularly scheduled Council meeting in the month following
the date of the general election.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-3) (Ord. 14-09, passed 10-27-2014)
§ 30.004 VACANCIES IN COUNCIL.
   Any vacancies that may occur on the Council for whatever reason shall be
filled in accordance with A.R.S. § 9-235, as may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-4) (Ord. 14-09, passed 10-27-2014)
§ 30.005 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Beginning January 1, 2015, the Mayor shall be paid a total annual
salary of $7,200, payable in quarterly installments at the end of each quarter.
The Mayor shall also be issued a City cell phone.
   (B)   Beginning January 1, 2015, Council members, other than the Mayor,
shall be paid a total annual salary of $4,800, payable in quarterly
installments at the end of each quarter.
   (C)   In addition, as part of their compensation, the City Council members
shall be allowed to participate in the City’s health insurance program. Any
City Council member who elects to participate in the City’s health insurance
program shall be solely responsible for all premiums and co-pays related to
their participation.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-5) (Ord. 14-09, passed 10-27-2014)
§ 30.006 OATH OF OFFICE.
   Immediately prior to assumption of duties of office, each Council member and
the Mayor shall, in public, take and subscribe to the oath of office.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-6) (Ord. 14-09, passed 10-27-2014)
§ 30.007 BOND.
   (A)   Prior to taking office, every Council member and the Mayor shall
execute and file an official bond, enforceable against the principal and his or
her sureties, conditioned on the due and faithful performance of his or her
official duties, payable to the state and to and for the use and benefit of the
City or any person who may be injured or aggrieved by the wrongful act or
default of such officer in his or her official capacity.
   (B)   A person so injured or aggrieved may bring suit on such bond under
provisions identical to those contained in A.R.S. § 38-260.
   (C)   Bonds shall be in such sum as shall be provided by resolution and the
premium for such bonds shall be paid by the City.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-7) (Ord. 14-09, passed 10-27-2014)
MAYOR
§ 30.020 SELECTION OF VICE MAYOR.
   The Council members shall, at the first regular meeting in the month
following the general election, choose a Vice Mayor from among their number to
serve a two-year term.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-1) (Ord. 98-04, passed 4-13-1998)
§ 30.021 ACTING MAYOR.
   (A)   In the absence or disability of both the Mayor and the Vice Mayor, the
Council may designate another of its members to serve as acting Mayor, who
shall have the powers, duties, and responsibilities of the Mayor during such
absence or disability.
   (B)   In the event that the office of Mayor becomes vacant for any reason,
then the Vice Mayor shall assume the office of Mayor to fill the unexpired term
of Mayor, and the Council shall elect a Vice Mayor from among their number to
fill the unexpired term of Vice Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-2)
§ 30.022 POWERS AND DUTIES OF MAYOR.
   The powers and duties of the Mayor shall include the following:
   (A)   He or she shall be the chief executive officer of the City;
   (B)   He or she shall be the Chairperson of the Council and preside over its
meetings. He or she may make and second motions and shall have a voice and vote
in all proceedings;
   (C)   He or she shall enforce the provisions of this code;
   (D)   He or she shall execute and authenticate by his or her signature such
instruments as the Council, or any statutes, ordinances, or this code shall
require;
   (E)   He or she shall make such recommendations and suggestions to the
Council as he or she may consider proper;
   (F)   He or she shall take command of the police force of the City and
govern by proclamation in the event of the threat of or occurrence of acts of
riot, rout, or affray sufficient to constitute great danger to the City and its
residents:
      (1)   In such areas of the City as shall be designated by the Mayor by
proclamation under the condition set forth in this section, and within the area
within all or any part of the City so designated by the Mayor, a curfew shall
be in effect the hours of each designated in the proclamation, and all persons
living or residing within any such designated area shall go immediately to
their homes, and remain there until the curfew has been lifted by the order of
the Mayor, and all other persons not residing within the designated area shall
immediately leave; and
      (2)   During the imposition of any curfew set forth in this section, all
business establishments in the designated curfew area, having on their premises
intoxicating beverages, shall be closed during the state of emergency and until
the curfew is lifted.
   (G)   He or she shall perform such other duties required by state statute
and this code as well as those duties required as chief executive officer of
the City.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-3)
§ 30.023 ABSENCE OF MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall not be absent from the City for a greater period than 15
days without the consent of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-4)
§ 30.024 FAILURE TO SIGN DOCUMENTS.
   If the Mayor refuses or fails to sign any ordinance, resolution, contract,
warrant, demand, or other document or instrument requiring his or her signature
for five days consecutively, then a majority of the members of the Council may,
at any regular or special meeting, authorize the Vice Mayor, or in his or her
absence, an acting Mayor to sign such ordinance, resolution, contract, warrant,
demand, or other document or instrument which when so signed shall have the
same force and effect as if signed by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-5)
COUNCIL ELECTIONS
§ 30.035 PRIMARY ELECTION.
   (A)   Any candidate who shall receive at the primary election a majority of
all votes cast shall be declared to be elected to the office for which he or
she is a candidate, effective as of the date of the general election, and no
further election shall be held as to said candidate.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the majority of votes cast is determined
by:
      (1)   Calculating the total number of actual votes cast for all
candidates for an office whose names were lawfully on the ballot for that
office;
      (2)   Dividing the sum reached pursuant to section (B)(1) above by the
number of seats to be filled for the office; and
      (3)   Dividing the number reached pursuant to section (B)(2) above by two
and rounding that number to the highest whole number.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-1) (Ord. 13-14, passed 10-14-2013; Ord. 16-13, passed 12-12-
2016)
§ 30.036 NON-POLITICAL BALLOT.
   Nothing on the ballot of any election shall be indicative of the support of
any candidate.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2)
§ 30.037 GENERAL ELECTION NOMINATION.
   (A)   If at any primary election held as above provided there be any office
or offices for which no candidate is elected, then as to such office or
offices, said election shall be considered a primary election for nomination of
candidates for such office or offices, and the second or general municipal
election shall be held to vote for candidates to fill such office or offices.
   (B)   Candidates to be placed on the ballot at such second or general
municipal election shall be those not elected at such first election, shall be
equal in number to twice the number to be elected to any given office or less
than that number if there be less than that number named on the primary
election ballot, and persons who receive the highest number of votes for the
respective offices at such first election shall be the only candidates at such
second election, provided that if there be any person who, under the provisions
of this subchapter, would have been entitled to become a candidate for any
office except for the fact that some other candidate received an equal number
of votes therefor, then all such persons receiving an equal number of votes
shall likewise become candidates for such office.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-3)
§ 30.038 ELECTION TO OFFICE.
   The candidates equal in number to the persons to be elected who receive the
highest number of votes shall be declared elected.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-4)
§ 30.039 DATES OF ELECTIONS.
   The primary election for the offices of Mayor and Council member shall be
held in even- numbered years on the tenth Tuesday before the first Tuesday
after the first Monday in November, and the general election shall be held on
the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-5) (Ord. 13-13, passed 10-14-2013)
§ 30.040 OPTIONAL PROCEDURE.
   The City Council may, by majority vote, authorize any City election, whether
for the election of Mayor or Council members or for other issues of general
concern to the voters of the City, to be conducted by mail ballot pursuant to
the provisions of state law governing mail ballot elections. The City shall
specify in any notice of any election whether it is to be conducted by mail
ballot.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-6)
§ 30.041 NON-CANDIDATE ELECTION DATES.
   A non-candidate election, including a special election to fill a vacancy or
a recall election, shall only be held on the second Tuesday in March, the third
Tuesday in May, the tenth Tuesday before the first Tuesday after the first
Monday in November; or the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November. An
election for the approval of an obligation or other authorization requiring or
authorizing the assessment of secondary property taxes shall be held on the
first Tuesday after the first Monday in November.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-7) (Ord. 13-13, passed 10-14-2013)
COUNCIL PROCEDURE
§ 30.055 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The Council shall hold regular meetings at 7:00 p.m. on the second and
fourth Mondays of each month except in December when the only meeting shall be
on the second Monday thereof, provided, however, that when the day fixed for
any regular meeting of the Council falls upon a designated legal holiday, such
meeting shall be held at the same hour on the next succeeding day that is not a
holiday. All regular meetings shall be held in the Council Chambers of the City
or other places designated by motion and passed by Council at the preceding
regular Council meeting. The Council may also change the date of a regular
meeting, provided the same is done by motion at the preceding regular meeting.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-1)
§ 30.056 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   The Mayor, or Vice Mayor in the absence of the Mayor, may, or at the request
of three members of the Council, shall convene the Council in a special meeting
at any time by notifying the members of the date, hour, and purpose of such
special meeting. Notice may be given personally or by telephone, however, if
time permits, written notice shall be given to the members at their usual place
of business or residence.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-2)
§ 30.057 MEETINGS TO BE PUBLIC.
   All proceedings of the Council shall be open to the public except that upon
the approval by a majority vote of the Council, the Council may meet in a
closed executive session for a discussion of matters of a confident nature,
provided that no ordinance, rule, resolution, regulation, contract,
appointment, or other official action shall be finally approved in any such
executive session.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-3)
§ 30.058 QUORUM.
   A majority of the Council members shall constitute a quorum for transacting
business but lesser number may adjourn from time to time and compel the
attendance of absent members.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-4)
§ 30.059 AGENDA.
   Prior to each Council meeting, or on or before a time fixed by the Council
for preparation and distribution of an agenda, whichever is earlier, the Clerk
shall collect all written reports, communications, ordinances, resolutions,
contracts, and other documents to be submitted to the Council, and prepare an
agenda according to the order of business and shall furnish each Council
member, the Mayor, Manager, and Attorney with a copy.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-5)
§ 30.060 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The business of the Council shall be set by agenda and order of the Mayor,
or in his or her absence, the Vice Mayor, in consultation with the City Manager
pursuant to law.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-6)
§ 30.061 VOTING.
   (A)   The Mayor shall vote as a member of the Council.
   (B)   The vote of each Council member present shall be included in the
minutes on all ordinances and resolutions and on all other issues where request
is made by a Council member. No member of the Council present at a meeting
shall be excused from voting except upon matters involving the consideration of
his or her own official conduct or matters involving a conflict interest. In
all other cases, failure to vote by a Council member present at a meeting shall
be entered in the minutes as an affirmative vote, except for election or
appointment of officers or officials.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-7)
§ 30.062 SUSPENSION OF RULES.
   Any of the provisions of this subchapter may be temporarily suspended in
connection with any matter under consideration by a record vote of three-
fourths of the members present, except that this section shall not be construed
to permit any action that is contrary to state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-8)
§ 30.063 COMMITTEES OF COUNCIL.
   There shall be no standing committees of the Council, however, special
committees may be appointed by the Mayor to perform such duties as designated
and to exist during the pleasure of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-9)
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, AND CONTRACTS
§ 30.075 PRIOR APPROVAL.
   All ordinances, resolutions, and contract documents shall, before
presentation to the Council, have been reviewed as to form by the City
Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-1)
§ 30.076 INTRODUCTION.
   Ordinances, resolutions, and other matters or subjects requiring action by
the Council shall be introduced and sponsored by a member of the Council,
except that the City Attorney or the Manager may present ordinances,
resolutions, and other matters or subjects to the Council, and any Council
member may assume sponsorship thereof by moving that such ordinance,
resolution, matter, or subject be adopted; otherwise they shall not be
considered.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-2)
§ 30.077 PRESENTATION AND PASSAGE.
   Ordinances, resolutions, and other matters or subjects requiring action by
the Council may be considered for consideration by the Mayor or any member of
the Council, except that the City Attorney or the City Manager may recommend
ordinances and resolutions or other matters or subjects to be considered. All
purposed ordinances and resolutions shall be read aloud to the Council at least
once if, and only if, requested by a Council member.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-3)
§ 30.078 REQUIREMENTS OF AN ORDINANCE.
   Each ordinance should have but one subject, the nature of which is clearly
expressed in the title. Whenever possible, each ordinance shall be introduced
as an amendment to this code or to an existing ordinance, and in such case, the
title of the sections to be amended shall be included in the ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-4)
§ 30.079 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCE.
   No ordinance, resolution, or franchise shall become operative until 30 days
after its passage by the Council and approval by the Mayor, except measures
necessary for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, or safety of the
City, but such an emergency measure shall not become immediately operative
unless it states in a separate section the reason why it is necessary that it
should become immediately operative, and unless it is approved by the
affirmative vote of three-fourths of all members elected to the Council, taken
by ayes and nays.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-5)
§ 30.080 SIGNATURES REQUIRED.
   Every ordinance passed by the Council shall, before it becomes effective, be
signed by the Mayor and attested by the Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-6)
§ 30.081 PUBLISHING REQUIRED.
   Only such orders, resolutions, motions, regulations, or proceedings of the
Council shall be published as may be required by state statutes or expressly
ordered by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-7)
§ 30.082 POSTING REQUIRED.
   Every ordinance imposing any penalty, fine, forfeiture, or other punishment
shall, after passage, be posted by the Clerk in three or more public places
within the City and an affidavit of the person who posted the ordinances shall
be filed in the office of the Clerk as proof of posting.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-8)
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 30.095 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Includes any enterprise, organization, trade, occupation, or
profession, whether or not operated as a legal entity or for profit, including
any business trust, corporation, partnership, joint venture, or sole
proprietorship.
   COMPENSATION. Anything of value or advantage, present or prospective,
including the forgiveness of debt.
   CONTROLLED BUSINESS. Any business in which the local public officer or any
member of his or her household has an ownership or beneficial interest,
individually or combined, amounting to more than a 50% interest.
   DEPENDENT BUSINESS. Any business in which the local public officer or any
member of his or her household has an ownership or beneficial interest,
individually or combined, amounting to more than a 10% interest, and during the
preceding calendar year the business received from a single source more than
$10,000 and more than 50% of its gross income.
   GIFT. Includes any gratuity, special discount, favor, hospitality, service,
economic opportunity, loan, or other benefit received without equivalent
consideration and not provided to members of the public at large. GIFT does not
include travel-related expenses that are publicly reported as required by law
or political campaign contributions that are publicly reported pursuant to
A.R.S. Title 16, Chapter 6.
   LOCAL PUBLIC OFFICER. A person holding an elective office of the City.
   MEMBER OF HOUSEHOLD. A local public officer’s spouse and any minor child of
whom the local public officer has legal custody.
   TRAVEL-RELATED EXPENSES. Any costs associated with transportation, food,
lodging, and registration fees and other expenses directly related to travel
to, or from, a meeting, conference, or other event where the local public
officer is participating in the local public officer’s official capacity.
(Prior Code, § 2-6-1) (Ord. 16-12, passed 12-12-2016)
§ 30.096 DUTY TO FILE FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE STATEMENT; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   In addition to other statements and reports required by law, every
local public officer, as a matter of public record, shall file with the City
Clerk on a form prescribed by the City Clerk a verified financial disclosure
statement covering the preceding calendar year ending December 31. The
statement shall disclose:
      (1)   The name and home or work address of the local public officer,
whether the local public officer’s spouse is a member of the local public
officer’s household, the number of minor children who are members of the local
public officer’s household and all names and addresses under which each does
business. If disclosure of the identity of the local public officer’s spouse or
minor children otherwise be required, a local public officer may comply with
the identification requirement by using the term “spouse” or “minor child”, as
applicable;
      (2)   The name and address of each employer and of each other source of
compensation other than gifts amounting to more than $1,000 received during the
preceding calendar year by the local public officer and members of his or her
household in their own names, or by any other person for the use or benefit of
the local public officer or members of his or her household, a description of
the services for which the compensation was received, and the nature of the
employer’s business. This section (A)(2) shall not be construed to require the
disclosure of individual items of compensation that constituted a portion of
the gross income of the business from which the local public officer or members
of his or her household derived compensation;
      (3)   For a controlled business, a description of the goods or services
provided by the business, and if any single source of compensation to the
business during the preceding calendar year amounts to more than $10,000 and is
more than 25% of the gross income of the business, the disclosure shall also
include a description of the goods or services provided to the source of
compensation. For a dependent business, the statement shall disclose a
description of the goods or services provided by the business and a description
of the goods or services provided to the source of compensation from which the
dependent business derived the amount of gross income described in section (A)
(4) below. If the source of compensation for a controlled or dependent business
is a business, the statement shall disclose a description of the business
activities engaged in by the source of compensation;
      (4)   The names and addresses of all businesses and trusts in which the
local public officer or members of his or her household, or any other person
for the use or benefit of the local public officer or members of his or her
household, had an ownership or beneficial interest of over $1,000 at any time
during the preceding calendar year, and the name and addresses of all
businesses and trusts in which the local public officer or any member of his or
her household held any office or had a fiduciary relationship at any time
during the preceding calendar year, together with the amount or value of the
interest and a description of the interest, office, or relationship;
      (5)   All real property interests and real property improvements,
including specific location and approximate size, located in the City, in which
the local public officer, any member of his or her household or a controlled or
dependent business held legal title or a beneficial interest at any time during
the preceding calendar year, and the value of any such interest, except that
this section (A)(5) does not apply to a real property interest and improvements
thereon used as the primary personal residence or for the personal recreational
use of the local public officer. If a local public officer, any member of his
or her household or a controlled or dependent business acquired or divested any
such interest during the preceding calendar year, he or she shall also disclose
that the transaction was made and the date it occurred. If the controlled or
dependent business is in the business of dealing in real property interests or
improvements, disclosure need not include individual parcels or transactions as
long as the aggregate value of all parcels of such property is reported;
      (6)   The names and addresses of all creditors to whom the local public
officer or members of his or her household, in their own names or in the name
of any other person, owed a debt of more than $1,000 or to whom a controlled
business or dependent business owed a debt of more than $10,000 which was also
more than 30% of the total business indebtedness at any time during the
preceding calendar year, listing each such creditor. This section (A)(6) shall
not be construed to require the disclosure of debts owed by the local public
officer or any member of his or her household resulting from the ordinary
conduct of a business other than a controlled or dependent business. Nor shall
disclosure be required of credit card transactions, retail installment
contracts, debts on residences or recreational property exempt from disclosure
under section (A)(5) above, debts on motor vehicles not used for commercial
purposes, debts secured by cash values on life insurance, or debts owed to
relatives. It is sufficient disclosure of a creditor if the name and address or
a person to whom payments are made is disclosed. If the local public officer,
and any member of his or her household or a controlled or dependent business
incurred or discharged a debt which is reportable under this section (A)(6)
during the preceding calendar year, the report shall disclose that the
transaction was made and the date it occurred;
      (7)   The identification and amount of each debt exceeding $1,000 owed at
any time during the preceding calendar year to the local public officer and
member of his or her household in their own names, or to any other person for
the use or benefit of the local public officer or any member of his or her
household. The disclosure shall include the identification and amount of each
debt exceeding $10,000 to a controlled business or dependent business which was
also more than 30% of the total indebtedness to the business at any time during
the preceding calendar year. This section (A)(7) shall not be construed to
require the disclosure of debts from the ordinary conduct of a business other
than a controlled or dependent business. If the local public officer, any
member of his or her household, or a controlled or dependent business incurred
or discharged a debt which is reportable under this section (A)(7) during the
preceding year, the report shall disclose that the transaction was made and the
date it occurred;
      (8)   The name of each source of any gift, or accumulated gifts from a
single source, of more than $500 received by the local public officer and
members of his or her household in their own names during the preceding
calendar year, or by any other person for the use or benefit of the local
public officer or any member of his or her household except gifts received by
will or by virtue of intestate succession, or received by way of distribution
from any intervivos or testamentary trust established by a spouse or by an
ancestor, or gifts received from any other member of the household or relatives
to the second degree of consanguinity. Travel-related expenses and political
campaign contributions shall not be construed as gifts if otherwise publicly
reported as required by law;
      (9)   A list of all business licenses issued, by the City, or by any
other governmental agency which requires for its issuance the consideration of
the application for such license by the City Council, to, held by, or in which
the local public officer or any member of his or her household had an interest
at any time during the preceding calendar year, including the name in which the
license was issued, the type of business, and its location;
      (10)   A list of all bonds, together with their value, issued by the
City, any industrial development authority of the City, or any nonprofit
corporation organized or authorized by the City held at any time during the
preceding calendar year by the local public officer or any member of his or her
household, which bonds issued by a single entity had a value in excess of
$1,000. If the local public officer or any member of his or her household
acquired or divested any bonds during the preceding calendar year which are
reportable under this section (A)(10), the fact that the transaction occurred
and the date shall also be shown; and
      (11)   The name of each meeting, conference, or other event where the
local public officer is participating in the public officer’s official capacity
if travel-related expenses of $1,000 or more were incurred on behalf of the
local public officer and the travel-related expenses are not paid by the local
public officer.
   (B)   If an amount or value is required to be reported pursuant to this
section, it is sufficient to report whether the amount or value of the equity
interest falls within:
      (1)   Category 1: $1,000 to $25,000;
      (2)   Category 2: more than $25,000 to $100,000; or
      (3)   Category 3: more than $100,000.
   (C)   This section does not require the disclosure of any information that
is privileged by law.
   (D)   The statement required to be filed pursuant to section (A) above shall
be filed by all persons who qualified as local public officers at any time
during the preceding calendar year on or before January 31 of each year, with
the exceptions that a local public officer appointed to fill a vacancy shall,
within 60 days following his or her taking of such office, file a financial
disclosure statement covering as his or her annual period the 12-month period
ending with the last full month prior to the date of his or her taking office,
and a local public officer whose final term expired less than 31 days into the
immediately following calendar year may file the local public officer’s final
financial disclosure at the same time as the disclosure for the last
immediately preceding year.
   (E)   The City Clerk shall prepare written guidelines, forms, and samples
for completing the financial disclosure statement required by this section. A
copy of the guidelines, forms, and samples shall be distributed to each local
public officer and shall be made available to each candidate required to file a
financial disclosure statement pursuant to §
30.097.
   (F)   Any statements that are required to be filed by a local public officer
pursuant to this subchapter adopted pursuant to A.R.S. § 38-545 may be filed in
an electronic format as prescribed by the Secretary of State.
(Prior Code, § 2-6-2) (Ord. 16-12, passed 12-12-2016)
§ 30.097 DUTY TO FILE FINAL FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE STATEMENT BY CANDIDATE FOR
COUNCIL.
   A candidate for local public office, as defined in §
30.095, shall file a financial disclosure statement covering the preceding 12-
month period and containing the information described in §
30.096 on a form prescribed by the City Clerk at the time of filing nomination
papers.
(Prior Code, § 2-6-3) (Ord. 16-12, passed 12-12-2016)
§ 30.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §§
30.095 through
30.097 shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor and subject to a civil penalty
as set forth in A.R.S. § 38-544, as may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 2-6-4) (Ord. 16-12, passed 12-12-2016)
CHAPTER 31: ADMINISTRATION
Section
Officers in General
   
31.01   City officers
   
31.02   Other employees
   
31.03   Additional offices
   
31.04   Bond
   
31.05   Vacancies; holding more than one office
   
31.06   Additional powers and duties
Officers: Powers and Duties, Bonding
   
31.20   City Manager
   
31.21   City Clerk
   
31.22   Chief of Police
   
31.23   Fire Chief
   
31.24   City Attorney
   
31.25   City Magistrate
   
31.26   Finance Director
   
31.27   City Engineer
OFFICERS IN GENERAL
§ 31.01 CITY OFFICERS.
   In accordance with state law, the following offices are hereby created: City
Clerk and Ex-Officio Treasurer, City Attorney, Chief of Police, City Physician,
City Engineer, and City Magistrate. The office of the City Manager is hereby
created and established. The City Manager, Ex-Officio Treasurer (Fiscal
Officer), City Magistrate, and City Attorney shall be appointed by the Council.
The City Manager shall appoint persons to serve in the remaining offices hereby
created above, hereinafter designated in the chapter or as hereinafter created.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-1) (Ord. 99-08, passed 6-28-1999; Ord. 03-05, passed 4-28-
2003)
§ 31.02 OTHER EMPLOYEES.
   The City Council, by resolution, and the City Manager, by administrative
order, may create such other forms of employment as deemed necessary to execute
the duties of the offices created in §
31.01 as required by statute.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2)
§ 31.03 ADDITIONAL OFFICES.
   The Council may create such other offices as it may deem necessary and that
are not provided for in this code or state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-3)
§ 31.04 BOND.
   The Council shall require each officer of the City to give bond for the due
discharge of his or her duties in such sums and with such security as it may
direct and approve as determined by resolution and the City shall pay the costs
of such bond.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-4)
§ 31.05 VACANCIES; HOLDING MORE THAN ONE OFFICE.
   Any vacancy that shall occur in any City office enumerated in §
31.01 shall be filled by appointment of the City Manager, provided that one
person shall not hold more than one office and that the discretion of the City
Manager or City Council the functions of a City of a City official may be
validly performed and discharged by a deputy or other City official, or any
otherwise qualified individual not holding office but employed at the pleasure
of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-5)
§ 31.06 ADDITIONAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   In addition to any powers and duties prescribed in this code, each officer
shall have such further powers, perform such further duties, and hold such
other offices as any be provided by the Council through ordinance, resolution,
or order.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-6)
OFFICERS: POWERS AND DUTIES, BONDING
§ 31.20 CITY MANAGER.
   (A)   Appointment. The City Manager shall be appointed by the Council on the
basis of his or her administrative and executive ability and qualifications and
shall hold office for and at the pleasure of the Council. At the time of his or
her appointment, the City Manager need not be a resident of the City but within
a reasonable time after his or her appointment he or she shall become a
resident of the City.
   (B)   Employment agreement. The City may enter into an employment agreement
with the City Manager defining the terms and conditions of his or her
employment. Said employment agreement may include the hours of work, salaries,
length of term employment, method of termination, vacation and sick leave,
insurance coverage, retirement benefits, fringe benefits, and such other
matters as may be deemed appropriate by the Mayor and the Council and City
Manager. In the absence of such an agreement defining the length or term of
employment, the City Manager shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor and
Council and may be removed by a majority vote of the Council at any regular
Council meeting at which such removal has been placed on the Council agenda as
a specific agenda item for that meeting.
   (C)   Compensation. The City Manager shall receive such compensation as the
Council shall fix from time to time.
   (D)   Powers and duties. The City Manager shall be the administrative head
of the government of the City under the direction and control of the Council
except as otherwise provided in this chapter. He or she shall be responsible to
the Council for the proper administration of all affairs of the City. In
addition to his or her general powers as administrative head and not as a
limitation thereon, it shall be his or her duty and he or she shall have the
powers set forth in the following sections:
      (1)   Execute, on behalf of the Council, general administrative
supervision and control of the affairs of the City;
      (2)   Attend meetings of the Council with the duty of reporting on or
discussing any matter concerning the affairs of the departments, boards,
services, or activities under his or her supervision, upon which, in his or her
judgement, the Council should be informed;
      (3)   Coordinate the administrative functions and operations of the
various departments, boards, divisions, and services of the City government,
and on its behalf to carry out the policies, rules, regulations, and ordinances
adopted by it, relating to the administration of the affairs of such
departments, boards, divisions, or services;
      (4)   Cause to be prepared and submitted to him or her by each
department, board, division, or service of the City government, itemized annual
estimates of expenditures required by them for capital outlay, salaries, wages,
and miscellaneous operating costs; to tabulate the same into a preliminary
consolidated municipal budget and submit the same to the Council annually on
the date specified by them, with his or her recommendations as to any
increases, decreases, cancellations, transfers, or changes in any of the items
included in said preliminary budget;
      (5)   Supervise the expenditures of all departments, divisions, or
services of the City government and to act as purchasing agent for the purchase
of all supplies, goods, wares, merchandise, equipment, and material which may
be required for any of such departments, divisions, or services;
      (6)   Analyze and supervise the functions, duties, and activities of the
various departments, boards, and services of the City government and all
employees thereof, and to make such recommendations to the Council with
reference thereto, as in his or her judgement, will result, if made effective,
in the highest degree of efficiency in the overall operation of the City
government;
      (7)   Develop and organize necessary improvement projects and programs
and to aid and assist the Council and the various departments and boards in
carrying the same through to a successful conclusion;
      (8)   Serve as public relations officer of the City government, and to
follow through and endeavor to adjust all complaints filed against any
employee, department, or service thereof to the end that every effort may be
made to satisfy all citizens that their City government is being operated in
their behalf with the highest degree of efficiency;
      (9)   Cooperate with all community organizations whose aims and purposes
it is to advance the spiritual and material interests of the City and its
residences and to provide them with reasonable assistance obtainable through
the City government within the limitations of the law;
      (10)   Make and keep up-to-date inventory of all personal property owned
by the City and to recommend to the Council the purchase of new machinery,
equipment, and supplies whenever, in his or her judgement, the same can be
obtained at the best advantage, taking into consideration trade- in value of
machinery or equipment in use;
      (11)   Make, or cause to be made, studies and surveys of the duties,
responsibilities, and work of the personnel in the various departments and
services of the City government and to recommend to the City Council abolition
or consolidation of positions or transfers or removals of personnel in such
studies and surveys, whenever, in his or her judgment, such action would
increase efficiency in the administration of the City government;
      (12)   See that all laws and ordinances of the City are duly enforced;
      (13)   Devote his or her entire time to the discharge of his or her
official duties;
      (14)   Perform such other duties as may be required of him or her by
Council, not inconsistent with the laws of the state or ordinances of the City;
      (15)   Appoint and, when necessary, suspend and remove all employees of
the City except appointed officials pursuant to the City’s personnel rules and
regulations, this code, and ordinances of the City. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the City Manager shall obtain City Council approval before
implementing layoffs; and
      (16)   Advise and consult with the City Council with respect to the
appointment of all appointive officers of the City, and recommend the removal
or suspension of any such officers when such removal or suspension shall be
consistent with the best interest of the City.
   (E)   Council not to interfere with appointments or removals. All officers
and employees, except the City Attorney and the City Magistrate, shall be
appointed by the Manager, and neither the Council nor any of its members shall
direct or request the appointment of any person to, or his or her removal or
suspension from, such office by the Manager or his or her subordinates, or in
any manner take part in the appointment or removal of such officers and
employees in the administration services of the City. Except for the purpose of
inquiry, the Council and its members shall deal with the administrative service
solely through the Manager. The City Attorney and the City Magistrate shall be
appointed or removed at the direction of the Council.
   (F)   Public relations. In the discharge of his or her duties as Manager,
the person holding such position shall endeavor at all times to exercise the
highest degree of tact, patience, and courtesy in his or her contacts with the
public and with all City boards, departments, and employees and shall use the
best of his or her efforts to establish and maintain a harmonious relationship
between all personnel employed in the government of the City to the end that
the highest possible standards of public service shall be continuously
maintained.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-1) (Ord. 09-06, passed 1-26-2009)
§ 31.21 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   Records. The Clerk shall attest to and keep a true and correct record
of all business transacted by the Council and any other records that either
pertain to the business of the City or that the Council directs. The Clerk
shall number, plainly label, and file separately in a suitable cabinet all
resolutions, notices, deeds, surveys, leases, paid and unpaid vouchers,
inventories, letters, orders, and other documents of whatever nature.
   (B)   Public inspection of records. The Clerk shall keep convenient for
public inspection all public records and public documents under his or her
control, as provided by state statutes.
   (C)   Minutes. The Clerk shall prepare or cause to be prepared all minutes
of Council proceedings and ensure their correctness and accuracy.
   (D)   Ordinances, resolutions, budgets, and notices. The Clerk shall attest
to, process, record, file, publish, and if required by state statute, post all
ordinances, resolutions, budgets, and notices that may be passed by the
Council.
   (E)   Duties as Ex-Officio Treasurer. The Clerk may hold the office of City
Treasurer. In said capacity, he or she shall receive and safely keep all monies
that shall come to the City and pay out the same when authorized by the
Council. He or she shall keep a separate record and account for each different
fund provided by the Council, apportion the monies received among the different
funds as prescribed by the Council, and keep a complete set of books showing
every money transaction of the City, the state of each fund, from what source
the money in each fund was derived and for what purpose expended, and shall
make monthly reports to the Council of all receipts and disbursements and the
balance of each fund. At the end of the fiscal year, he or she shall make a
full and detailed statement of the receipts and expenditures of the City during
the year, specifying the different sources of revenue and the amount received
for each, all appropriations made by the Mayor and Council, and the object for
which they were made, and the amount of money expended under each, the
evidences of indebtedness issued, and what portion remains thereof outstanding,
with the rate and amount of interest due thereon, and the amount of cash on
hand. The City Manager may, however, appoint a Finance Director who shall
perform these duties and those set forth in §
31.26.
   (F)   Election Official. The Clerk shall be the City’s Election Official and
perform those duties required by state statute.
   (G)   Licenses. The Clerk shall issue or cause to be issued all licenses
that may be prescribed by state statute or this code.
   (H)   Administrative duties. The Clerk shall perform those administrative
responsibilities and duties that are conferred upon him or her by the Manager
in addition to those specified in this code.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-2)
§ 31.22 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police shall perform such duties as may be required of him or
her by law and as the Manager may deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-3)
§ 31.23 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall direct the operations of the Fire Department of the
City and personally be present, if possible, at all fires occurring within the
City and direct the firefighting operations; conduct training instruction in
the firefighting techniques; and perform all other duties as may be assigned
him or her by the City Manager and the ordinances of the City and the laws of
the state and the United States.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-4)
§ 31.24 CITY ATTORNEY.
   The City Attorney shall act as the legal counselor and advisor of the
Council and other City officials, and as such, shall give his or her opinion in
writing when requested. He or she shall draft all deeds, contracts,
conveyances, ordinances, resolutions, and other legal instruments when required
by the Council. He or she shall approve as to form of writing, all drafts of
contracts, and all bonds before final approval or acceptance thereof by the
Council. He or she shall return, within ten days, all ordinances and
resolutions submitted to him or her for consideration by the Council with his
or her approval or disapproval as to form noted thereon, together with his or
her reasons therefor. He or she shall prosecute and defend all suits, actions,
or causes where the City is a party, and shall report to the Council, when
required, the condition of any suit or action to which the City is a party.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-5)
§ 31.25 CITY MAGISTRATE.
   The City Magistrate shall be presiding officer of the Magistrate’s court,
shall be selected by the Council, and shall perform those functions necessary
to the maintenance of a Magistrate’s court as provided by state statute. The
City Magistrate shall serve a one-year term of office, at which time his or her
term shall expire. The City Council may, in its sole discretion, choose to
reappoint the person to serve another one-year term by providing written notice
of its election to do so, or appoint a new person to serve as City Magistrate.
The City Magistrate may be removed for cause during his or her term of office
after hearing before the City Council, providing due process.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-6) (Ord. 03-05, passed 4-28-2003)
§ 31.26 FINANCE DIRECTOR.
   The Finance Director shall receive and safely keep all monies that shall be
due to the City. He or she shall keep a separate record and account of each
different fund provided by the Council, or otherwise, keep a record of warrants
paid and of warrants presented but not paid for want of funds, apportion the
monies received among the different funds as prescribed by the Council, and
keep a complete set of books showing every money transaction of the City and
the state of each fund, from what source of money each fund was derived and for
what purpose was expended, and he or she shall make monthly reports to the
Council of all receipts and disbursements and the balance in each fund. At the
end of the fiscal year, he or she shall make a full and detailed statement of
the receipts and expenditures of the City during the year. He or she shall
perform such other duties as are vested in him or her by the statutes of the
state, the ordinances of the City, and assigned to him or her by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-7)
§ 31.27 CITY ENGINEER.
   The City Engineer shall perform professional civil engineering work relating
to the planning, limited design, construction, and inspection of a variety of
public works projects; furnish technical engineering advice to the City Manager
and other City officials; act in a project manager capacity for various City-
funded projects; confer with engineers, architects, developers, and a variety
of agencies and the general public in acquiring information and coordinating
engineering matters. The position of City Engineer may be filled by the Public
Works Director, another member of the City staff, or a contract consulting
engineer (firm), if professional engineering requirements are met.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-8)
CHAPTER 32: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Powers of Council
   
32.02   Membership
   
32.03   Appointment
   
32.04   Term in office
   
32.05   Removal from office
   
32.06   Duties
Rules of Procedure
   
32.20   Officers, terms of office
   
32.21   Meetings
   
32.22   Regulations
   
32.23   Conflicts of interest
   
32.24   Resignations
   
32.25   Applicability
Special Boards and Commissions; Exceptions
   
32.40   Exceptions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 POWERS OF COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Council may create such boards and commissions, standing or
special, as it deems necessary. In addition, the Council may provide such aid
and assistance from the administrative staff of the City to any such board or
commission as may be necessary.
   (B)   Any such boards and commissions created by the Council shall be
responsible to the Council and shall function in an advisory capacity to the
Council.
   (C)   Any such boards and commissions created by Council shall be subject to
all criteria in this subchapter and §§
32.20 through
32.25 unless otherwise noted in §
32.40.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-1) (Ord. 99-19, passed 12-13-1999)
§ 32.02 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   All boards and commissions of the City shall have a minimum of three
members and a maximum of seven members unless otherwise required by law.
   (B)   Each board or commission shall as nearly possible have an integrated
or balanced membership with representatives of each race, sex, and geographical
area of the City.
   (C)   The Council shall, in making such appointment, take into consideration
each person’s knowledge, background, interest, experience, and availability of
time to perform the work and duties of such board or commission. The
applicant’s political affiliation shall not be considered in making such
appointment.
   (D)   No member of any board or commission may concurrently serve on any
other board or commission of the City, except for the Personnel Advisory Board.
   (E)   All members shall be bona fide residents of the City.
   (F)   All members shall serve without pay or compensation, except that a
member shall be reimbursed for his or her actual and necessary expenses
incurred in the performance of his or her official duties, provided that such
expenses are approved by the Council prior to being incurred.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-2) (Ord. 99-02, passed 3-22-1999; Ord. 13-06, passed 4-22-
2013)
§ 32.03 APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   All members of such boards and commissions shall be appointed by the
Council.
   (B)   Upon vacancy occurring on any board or commission for any reason, a
new member shall be appointed by the Council of the City to fill only the un-
expired term.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-3)
§ 32.04 TERM IN OFFICE.
   (A)   Appointment to any board or commission of the City shall be for a term
of two years. Any member of a board or commission may be removed at any time
before the expiration of his or her term upon the majority vote of the Council
of the City at any regular meeting at which the quorum is present and such
removal was placed upon the agenda as a regular item for consideration and
voted upon at such meeting. This section shall apply to new members or members
reappointed after the effective date hereof, and shall have no applications to
those members presently on boards or commissions of the City whose terms have
not expired on the effective date of this code.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of section (A) above, the Council shall
initially appoint members to each board or commission of the City so that
members shall have overlapping terms, that is, three members’ terms shall
expire on January 1 in the odd-numbered years and four members’ terms shall
expire on January 1 in the even-numbered years.
   (C)   Each member shall serve until his or her successor is duly appointed
and qualified.
   (D)   Before the Council shall appoint any new member to any board or
commission, such board or commission shall recommend to the Council for its
consideration at least one qualified person for each vacant office. Such
recommendations shall be advisory only and shall not bind the Council to make
such appointment. Each board or commission shall make recommendations in
writing prior to 30 days before the expiration of a regular member’s term or
within 30 days after a vacancy otherwise occurs, and in the event that the
board or commission should fail or neglect to make such recommendation within
said periods, then the Council shall be free to appoint any qualified person to
fill the vacancy on such board or commission.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-4)
§ 32.05 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   Any one of the following shall constitute the resignation of a member and
authorize the appointment of a new member to fill the un-expired portion of the
term so vacated:
   (A)   Absence from three consecutive regular meetings of said board or
commission;
   (B)   Ceasing to be a qualified member as stated in §
32.02;
   (C)   Insanity when judicially determined; or
   (D)   Conviction of a felony or an offense involving a violation of his or
her official duties.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-5) (Ord. 99-02, passed 3-22-1999)
§ 32.06 DUTIES.
   (A)   Each board or commission shall have such powers or duties as
prescribed by the statutes and laws of the state pertaining to such board or
commission, this chapter, and as prescribed by the Council.
   (B)   Any matters within the jurisdiction of any board or commission shall
be presented to such board or commission for its consideration. Said board or
commission shall make a written report and recommendation on such matters to
the Council within 15 days after completing its hearing, provided that in the
event the Council requests the report, then said board or commission shall make
its report within seven days after such request. The Council shall not take any
action on any matter within the jurisdiction of any board or commission of its
report and recommendations, provided such recommendations are not binding upon
the Council and are advisory only.
   (C)   The Mayor, Council, or City Manager of the City shall have the right
to refer matters within the jurisdiction of the board or commission for
consideration, report, and recommendation.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-6)
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.20 OFFICERS, TERMS OF OFFICE.
   Each board or commission shall select from its members a Chairperson, Vice
Chairperson, and Secretary. Said officers shall serve a term of one year and no
such officer shall be eligible to succeed himself or herself in that office. If
a vacancy should occur, then a new Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, or Secretary
shall be selected at the next regular meeting after the occurrence of such
vacancy to fill the unexpired term. The term of office for the Chairperson,
Vice Chairperson, and Secretary shall expire on January 1 of each year and
their replacement shall be at the first regular meeting of the board or
commission following the said expiration date. The Chairperson shall be the
executive officer of the board or commission and shall preside over the
meetings and hearings of the commission or board. The Secretary shall cause
minutes of the meetings and hearings to be kept, showing the vote of the
members on each question and other official actions of the commission or board.
Said minutes shall be a public record and shall be filed in the office of the
City Clerk. In the absence of the Chairperson, the Vice Chairperson shall
preside and have all the powers of the Chairperson.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-1)
§ 32.21 MEETINGS.
   All members of the boards and commissions of the City shall be open to the
public and all persons desiring shall be permitted to attend and listen to the
deliberations and proceedings, provided that executive sessions may be held as
provided by the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-2)
§ 32.22 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Each board or commission shall adopt rules and regulations governing
its hearings and procedures. Said rules and regulations shall be approved by
the City Manager of the City before becoming effective. A copy of said rules
shall be filled with the City Clerk and shall be available to the public.
   (B)   No official action shall be taken at any such meeting unless a quorum
of the membership is present. A quorum is a majority of the members of the
boards or commissions.
   (C)   An agenda of the matters coming before each regular meeting shall be
prepared prior to the meeting and a copy thereof mailed or delivered to each
member of the board or commission in sufficient time so that it will be
received at least one day prior to the meeting.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-3)
§ 32.23 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   Any member of a board or commission who has a conflict of interest, as
defined in A.R.S. §§ 38-501 et seq., shall make known such conflict in the
official records of such board or commission and refrain from voting upon or
otherwise participating in any manner in such contract, sale purchase, or
decision.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-4)
§ 32.24 RESIGNATIONS.
   Except as provided in §
32.05, any member may resign from his or her office, provided that such
resignation shall be in writing and be directed to the Mayor of the City. No
resignation shall be effective until accepted by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-5)
§ 32.25 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall be applicable to all boards and commissions of the
City now existing or hereafter created or established, except where provisions
would conflict with any statutes of the state, then said statutes shall govern.
This subchapter shall also be applicable to the Library Board of Trustees for
the City, except any conflict between this subchapter and A.R.S. §§ 9-411
through 9-419 shall be governed by said statutes.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-6)
SPECIAL BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS; EXCEPTIONS
§ 32.40 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Special boards and commissions must follow all of the criteria under
§§
32.01 through
32.06 and §§
32.20 through
32.25 with the following exceptions.
   (B)   The Strategic Planning and Economic Development Commission.
      (1)   The purpose of the Commission is to guide the implementation of the
Coolidge Focused Future Strategic Plan, to supplement the Plan and keep it up
to date, to advise the City Council on economic development activities, and to
recommend to the City Council needed ordinance and rule changes and courses of
action.
      (2)   Membership shall consist of nine members.
      (3)   No more than two members of this Commission may serve concurrently
on another City commission or board appointed by Council, or serve concurrently
on the City Council, so long as no more than one such person from any other one
commission, board, or Council serves on this Commission at any time.
      (4)   Five members of this Commission shall be bona fide residents of the
City; and four members may be bona fide residents of the City; or own a
legitimate and operational business within the City; or have a profession and/
or interest in the City that would have a positive impact on the Commission’s
goals and objectives.
      (5)   Appointment to the Strategic Planning and Economic Development
Commission shall be for terms as follows:
         (a)   Four members for three years; and
         (b)   Five members for two years.
      (6)   The Commission may create sub-committees of three members, standing
or special, as it deems necessary to advise on certain issues.
      (7)   Any such committees created by the Strategic Planning and Economic
Development Commission shall be responsible to the Commission and shall
function in an advisory capacity to the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-1) (Ord. 99-19, passed 12-13-1999; Ord. 01-04, passed 2-12-
2001; Ord. 03-02, passed 1-27-2003)
CHAPTER 33: PUBLIC SAFETY DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Department established
   
33.02   Fingerprinting and criminal history record information
   
33.03   Adoption of International Fire Code
   
33.04   Creation of Emergency Medical Services Unit
Police Department
   
33.15   Created; composition
   
33.16   Appointment of officers
   
33.17   Departmental rules and regulations
   
33.18   Duties of Police Department
   
33.19   Answering calls outside the City
Police Reserve Corps
   
33.30   Creation
   
33.31   Qualification of members
   
33.32   Oath required
   
33.33   Duties
   
33.34   Termination of membership
   
33.35   Badges and insignia
   
33.36   Uniforms
   
33.37   Honorary appointment prohibited
   
33.38   Impersonations
   
33.39   Carrying firearms
Fire Department
   
33.50   Created; composition
   
33.51   Departmental rules and regulations
   
33.52   Compensation
   
33.53   Appointment, powers, and duties of the Chief
   
33.54   Suspension, demotion, or discharge; appeal
   
33.55   Entry upon adjacent property
   
33.56   Equipment
   
33.57   Fire protection agreements
   
33.58   Fire protection outside of the City
   
33.59   Acknowledgment of right-of-way
   
33.60   Fire alarms
   
33.61   Orders of Fire Chief
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby created the Public Safety Department, which may encompass
all activities provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-1)
§ 33.02 FINGERPRINTING AND CRIMINAL HISTORY RECORD INFORMATION.
   This section, relating to fingerprints and criminal history record
information, is hereby established to read as follows.
   (A)   The City Manager, or designee, is authorized to request and receive
criminal history record information from the state’s Department of Public
Safety, as provided in A.R.S. § 41-1750, for the purpose of evaluating the
fitness of any and all prospective and current employees, contract employees,
and volunteers.
   (B)   Each candidate for any paid City position, prospective or current City
employee, contract employee, or volunteer who works at on-site City locations
and/or will have duties that include working with youths or a potentially
vulnerable population, or who may have access to confidential information or
City assets, shall submit a full set of fingerprints to the City for the
purpose of obtaining a state and federal criminal records check, pursuant to
A.R.S. § 41-1750 and Pub. Law No. § 92-544. The state’s Department of Public
Safety is authorized to exchange this fingerprint data with the Federal Bureau
of Investigation.
   (C)   The City Manager, or designee, shall submit the fingerprints of the
individuals for whom criminal history record information is sought to the
state’s Department of Public Safety, along with any and all prescribed fees.
The City’s Police Department shall assist, as necessary, in obtaining the
fingerprints.
   (D)   The City will comply with any relevant state and federal laws, rules,
and regulations that may relate to the dissemination of the criminal history
information.
(Prior Code, § 5-7)
§ 33.03 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE.
   As set forth in §
150.022 of this code, the International Fire Code, 2006 edition is adopted.
(Prior code, § 5-5)
§ 33.04 CREATION OF EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES UNIT.
   That Article 5-6 of “The Code of the City of Coolidge, Arizona”, be hereby
amended and the following language as set forth be deleted and said such
Article be declared to be invalid and no longer appropriate to serve the needs
of the City and its citizens. The following language therefore is declared to
be invalid and inappropriate: “There shall be an Emergency Medical Services
Unit who shall operate a City-owned ambulance service and have as its immediate
supervisor, a Medical Services Coordinator.”
(Prior Code, § 5-6)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.15 CREATED; COMPOSITION.
   There is hereby created a Police Department, which shall consist of a Chief
of Police and as many police officers as may from time to time be deemed
necessary by the Manager for the safety and good of the City.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-1)
§ 33.16 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   The Chief of Police shall be appointed by the Manager with the advice and
consent of the Council. The Chief of Police, with the approval of the Manager,
shall appoint as many police officers as may from time to time be deemed
necessary for the safety and good order of the City.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-2)
§ 33.17 DEPARTMENTAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Police Department shall be operated and managed in accordance with such
departmental rules and regulations as may from time to time be adopted by the
Chief of Police, the City Manager, or the Council.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-3)
§ 33.18 DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It is the duty of the Police Department, under the direction of the Chief of
Police, to:
   (A)   Enforce this code and statutes of the state within jurisdictional
limits as conferred by law and to arrest and charge the violators thereof;
   (B)   Take charge of the City jail and all prisoners confined therein;
   (C)   Render such account of the Police Department, its duties and receipts
as may be required by the Manager or Council, and keep records of the office
open to inspection by the Manager or Council at any time;
   (D)   Direct traffic and ensure the orderly flow thereof and investigate and
make reports of traffic accidents;
   (E)   Inspect and ascertain the condition of traffic control devices of
every description which have been erected within the City on the authority of
the Council and to notify the Manager of any defects found therein; and
   (F)   Perform such additional duties as may be required by the Manager or
Council.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-4)
§ 33.19 ANSWERING CALLS OUTSIDE THE CITY.
   The members of the Police Department of the City are duly authorized to
answer calls for aid and assistance beyond the corporate limits of the City
pursuant to mutual aid agreements and statutes.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-5)
POLICE RESERVE CORPS
§ 33.30 CREATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created a police reserve corps. The members of the
reserve corps shall serve without compensation and be composed of male or
female persons appointed by the Manager.
   (B)   Membership in such corps shall not exceed that amount of persons as
determined by the Council by written resolution, except in the event of an
emergency or disaster where additional members may be appointed.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-1)
§ 33.31 QUALIFICATION OF MEMBERS.
   To be eligible for consideration for the appointment as a police reserve
officer, the person shall not be less than 21 years of age, a resident of the
City, be of good moral character, and in good health.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-2)
§ 33.32 OATH REQUIRED.
   Each appointee, before entering upon his or her duties, shall sign an
appropriate oath that he or she will faithfully perform the duties of a police
reserve officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-3)
§ 33.33 DUTIES.
   The duties of the corps, subject at all times to the direction, supervision,
and control of the Chief of Police, shall be to aid and assist the regular
members of the Police Department of the City in the enforcement of the law,
direction of traffic, and maintenance of peace and order whenever and wherever
its services are required. The Chief of Police shall establish rules and
regulations consistent with this subchapter for the purpose of governing the
corps, including the fixing of specific duties of its members and providing for
the fixing of discipline among the members. The Chief of Police may change such
rules and regulations from time to time as he or she sees fit.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-4)
§ 33.34 TERMINATION OF MEMBERSHIP.
   The membership of any person in the corps may be terminated without the
necessity of assigning any reason therefor. Any member may resign from the
corps at any time upon submitting written notification to the Chief.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-5)
§ 33.35 BADGES AND INSIGNIA.
   The Chief of Police shall issue to each member of the corps an
identification card and a badge of authority to be used only while on duty and
with the proper shoulder insignia. The badge shall be in such a design as
determined by the Chief of Police, but shall bear the word “reserve” across the
face thereof. All property so issued shall remain the property of the City and
shall at no time become the personal property of the individual. Upon discharge
or resignation from the corps, the identification card and badge shall
immediately be returned to the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-6)
§ 33.36 UNIFORMS.
   The uniforms for members of the corps shall be similar to the uniforms worn
by the members of the regular Police Department of the City and shall be
purchased and maintained by the members of the corps at their own expense and
at no expense to the City or Police Department of the City.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-7)
§ 33.37 HONORARY APPOINTMENT PROHIBITED.
   No person shall be appointed as police reserve officer who does not or will
not serve as an active reserve officer as specified by the rules and
regulations of the police reserve corps.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-8)
§ 33.38 IMPERSONATIONS.
   No person shall impersonate a police reserve officer, nor shall any person
undertake the duties of a police reserve officer without first being appointed
by the Manager.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-9)
§ 33.39 CARRYING FIREARMS.
   No member of the corps shall carry any firearms until he or she has
qualified for and received evidence of such qualification from the Chief of
Police. Such authorized member shall carry firearms in such a manner and at
such times as may be prescribed by the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-10)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.50 CREATED; COMPOSITION.
   There is hereby created a Volunteer Fire Department for the City, which
shall consist of a Chief, two Assistant Chiefs, and as many firefighters as may
be deemed necessary from time to time by the Fire Chief with approval of the
Manager.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-1)
§ 33.51 DEPARTMENTAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Fire Department shall be operated and managed in accordance with such
departmental rules and regulations as may from time to time be adopted by the
Fire Chief with the approval of the Manager.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-2)
§ 33.52 COMPENSATION.
   The Fire Chief, Assistant Fire Chiefs, and volunteer firefighters shall be
compensated as may be determined by Council.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-3)
§ 33.53 APPOINTMENT, POWERS, AND DUTIES OF THE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief, Assistant Fire Chiefs, and Volunteer Department shall be
appointed by the Manager. It shall be the duty of the Chief to:
   (A)   Be accountable to the Manager for the personnel, morale, and general
efficiency of the Fire Department;
   (B)   Direct the operations of the Fire Department, subject to the rules and
regulations thereof;
   (C)   Be present at all fires, if possible, and plan and direct the
extinguishment thereof. During the progress of a fire, the authority of the
Fire Chief shall be absolute in all matters directly concerning the
extinguishment of the fire and the disposition of property endangered by it;
   (D)   Conduct suitable drills or instruction in operation or handling of
equipment, first aid and rescue work, salvage, a study of buildings in the
City, water supplies, and all other matters generally considered essential to
good firemanship and safety of life and property from fire;
   (E)   Assist the proper authorities in suppressing the crime of arson by
investigating or causing to be investigated the cause, origin, and
circumstances of all fires;
   (F)   Inspect buildings and premises and serve written notice upon the owner
or occupant to abate, within a specific time, any and all fire hazards that may
be found. For the purpose of conducting such inspection, the Chief is hereby
empowered to enter any and all buildings and premises within the City at any
reasonable hour. Any person served with such written notice shall comply and
notify the Chief of his or her compliance within a reasonable time;
   (G)   Keep complete records of all fires, inspections, apparatus and
equipment, personnel, and other information about the work of the Department
open to inspection by the Manager or Council and furnish to the Manager such
information upon request;
   (H)   Make a complete annual report, in writing, to the Manager at such time
as may be specified by the Council, and such report shall include the
information specified in section (G) above, together with comparative data for
previous years and recommendations for improving the effectiveness of the
Department;
   (I)   Enforce or cause to be enforced all ordinances, laws, and regulations
of the City and state, insofar as they pertain to fire and safety; and
   (J)   Appoint Assistant Fire Chiefs, subject to the approval of the Manager
and define their duties and the order of their superiority in the absence of
the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-4)
§ 33.54 SUSPENSION, DEMOTION, OR DISCHARGE; APPEAL.
   Subject to the approval of the Manager, the Fire Chief may suspend, demote,
or discharge from the Department any volunteer firefighter at any time he or
she shall deem such action necessary or appropriate for the good of the
Department.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-5)
§ 33.55 ENTRY UPON ADJACENT PROPERTY.
   It is lawful for any firefighter acting under the direction of the Chief or
another officer in command to enter upon the premises adjacent to or in the
vicinity of any building or other property that is on fire for the purpose of
extinguishing such fire, and no person shall hinder, resist, or obstruct any
firefighter in the discharge of his or her duty as herein before provided.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-6)
§ 33.56 EQUIPMENT.
   The Department shall be equipped with such apparatus or other equipment as
may be required from time to time to maintain its efficiency and properly
protect life and property from fire. Recommendations concerning apparatus and
equipment needed shall be made by the Chief to the Manager, and after approval
by the Council, such apparatus and equipment shall be purchased in such manner
as may be designated by the Council. All equipment of the Department shall be
safely and conveniently housed in such place or places as may be designated by
the Fire Chief with approval of the Manager. No persons shall use any fire
apparatus or equipment for any private purpose, nor shall any person willfully
take away or conceal any article used in any way by the Department. No person
shall enter any place where the fire apparatus is housed or handle any
apparatus or equipment belonging to the Department unless accompanied by, or
having special permission of, an officer or authorized member of the
Department. No fire apparatus or equipment shall be hired out or permitted to
leave the fire station except in response to a call for aid at a fire within
the corporate limits of the City or in response to a call for aid at a fire in
an area authorized for fire protection service or mutual aid under provisions
of §
33.57.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-7)
§ 33.57 FIRE PROTECTION AGREEMENTS.
   The Manager is authorized, with the consent and approval of the Council, to
enter fire protection agreements to furnish fire protection to premises located
outside the corporate limits of the City upon payment of a stipulated monthly
annual fee, and to enter into mutual aid agreements with other municipalities,
school districts, or governmental agencies of the United States, the state, and
the county. The City shall, subject to the provisions of this section, render
firefighting assistance to the premises covered by said fire protection
agreements, without payment of an extra fee as provided in §
33.58.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-8)
§ 33.58 FIRE PROTECTION OUTSIDE OF THE CITY.
   (A)   The Fire Department may, upon the approval of the Fire Chief, or in
his or her absence the Assistant Fire Chief, render firefighting services
outside the corporate limits of the City. Only such firefighters and
firefighting equipment as shall be designated by the Fire Chief may leave the
City in response to such calls. The Fire Chief, in making such designations
shall, in his or her absolute discretion, determine that such personnel and
firefighting equipment will not, upon leaving the City, jeopardize the fire
protection for this municipality. The Fire Chief, within 72 hours after
responding to a fire call outside of the City, shall file a written report with
the Manager setting forth the circumstances authorizing the response to such
fire call, the firefighters and equipment responding to the fire call, the
location of the fire, damage, duration of the fire, and such other information
as the Fire Chief or Manager shall deem pertinent.
   (B)   A fee of $300 shall be charged when the Fire Department responds to
any fire call to premises located outside the City if the owner or occupant of
the premises does not have a fire protection agreement then in effect for said
premises with the City. This fee shall be charged against the owner or occupant
of the premises to whom the firefighting services are rendered.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-9)
§ 33.59 ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Each member of the Department who drives a private motor vehicle shall be
issued suitable insignia which may be attached to such motor vehicle. All motor
equipment of the Department and all motor vehicles of the Department members
shall have right-of-way over all other traffic when responding to an alarm. No
unauthorized vehicle shall follow within 600 feet of any apparatus belonging to
the Department nor park any vehicle or otherwise cause any obstruction to be
placed within ten feet of the entrance to any fire station or other place where
fire apparatus is stored or within 15 feet of any fire hydrant. No person shall
drive any vehicle over fire hose except upon specific orders from the Chief or
other officer in charge where the hose is used.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.60 FIRE ALARMS.
   Suitable arrangements or equipment shall be provided for citizens to turn in
an alarm and for notifying all members of the Department so that they may
promptly respond. It is unlawful for any person knowingly to turn in or cause
to be turned in a false alarm.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.61 ORDERS OF FIRE CHIEF.
   It is unlawful for any firefighter or citizen to refuse to obey an order
issued by the Fire Chief pursuant to his or her authority.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 34: MAGISTRATE
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Magistrate Court established; jurisdiction
   
34.02   City Magistrate and Assistant City Magistrate
   
34.03   Powers and duties of City Magistrate
   
34.04   Judges pro tempore
Establishment of Fees for Services Provided by the Magistrate Court
   
34.15   Establishment of fees
   
34.16   Case processing fee
   
34.17   Warrant issuance; administrative fee
   
34.18   Defense appointment fee
   
34.19   License reinstatement fee
   
34.20   Deferred prosecution and probation fee
   
34.21   Order to show cause fee
   
34.22   Civil traffic default/suspension and abstract fees
   
34.23   Jail cost recovery fee
Assessment, Collection, Penalties, and Waiver of Court Fees
   
34.40   Assessment and collection of fees
   
34.41   Fees required by the state
   
34.42   Authority to waive fees
Home Detention and Electronic Monitoring Program
   
34.55   Authorization to use alternative sentencing options
   
34.56   Definitions
   
34.57   Persons not eligible for participation in the program
   
34.58   Provider required
   
34.59   Requirements for persons selected for the program
   
34.60   Requirements for persons sentenced for DUI offenses
   
34.61   Permission by court to leave premises
   
34.62   Community Restitution Work Committee
   
34.63   Termination of participation in the program
   
34.64   Administrative fee for participation in the program
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 MAGISTRATE COURT ESTABLISHED; JURISDICTION.
   There is hereby established in the City a Magistrate’s Court, which shall
have jurisdiction of all violations of this code and jurisdiction concurrently
with justices of the peace in precincts in which the City is located of
violation of laws of the state committed within the limits of the City.
(Prior Code, § 6-1) (Ord. 21-16, passed 8-23-2021)
§ 34.02 CITY MAGISTRATE AND ASSISTANT CITY MAGISTRATE.
   The presiding officer of the Magistrate’s Court shall be the City Magistrate
and shall be appointed by Council. The Manager may appoint an Assistant City
Magistrate to perform the duties of the City Magistrate in the City
Magistrate’s absence.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-1) (Ord. 21-16, passed 8-23-2021)
§ 34.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF CITY MAGISTRATE.
   The powers and duties of Magistrate shall include:
   (A)   The powers and duties set forth and conferred upon him or her under
the provisions of the state constitution and statutes, this code, and the
ordinances and resolutions of the City;
   (B)   The keeping of a docket in which shall be entered each action and the
proceedings of the court therein;
   (C)   The responsibility for fixing and receiving all bonds and bails and
receiving all fines, penalties, fees, and other monies as provided by law;
   (D)   Payment of all fees, fines, penalties, and other monies collected by
the court to the Treasurer;
   (E)   Preparation of a schedule of traffic violations not involving the
death of a person, listing specific bail for each violation; and
   (F)   Designation of deputy other than a law enforcement officer and a
specific location, at which the deputy shall, during hours when the court is
not open, set the amount of bail in accordance with the foregoing schedule and
collect such bail, or accept proper bail bonds in lieu thereof, for and on
behalf of the court.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-2) (Ord. 21-16, passed 8-23-2021)
§ 34.04 JUDGES PRO TEMPORE.
   The City Magistrate may appoint a number of judges pro tempore necessary to
fulfill the needs of the court.
(Ord. 21-16, passed 8-23-2021)
ESTABLISHMENT OF FEES FOR SERVICES PROVIDED BY THE MAGISTRATE COURT
§ 34.15 ESTABLISHMENT OF FEES.
   In order to defray the costs of various Magistrate Court services, the fees
set forth in this subchapter shall be assessed and collected from certain
persons using Magistrate Court services. The fees assessed are and shall at all
times be reasonably calculated to recover, on average, all or part of the costs
and expenses associated with each service provided or undertaken on behalf of
the person assessed fees.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-1) (Ord. 04-03, passed 1-26-2004; Ord. 21-16. passed 8-23-
2021)
§ 34.16 CASE PROCESSING FEE.
   For each case involving a criminal, criminal traffic, or civil traffic
offense, the Magistrate Court shall assess each person a case processing fee of
not less than $20 for each case in which there is an adjudication adverse to
the person in that matter. For purposes of this section, adverse adjudication
shall include any and all determinations of guilt or responsibility, including
“no contest” pleas in criminal matters, irrespective of the punishment or
penalty imposed by the Magistrate.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-2) (Ord. 04-03, passed 1-26-2004; Ord. 21-16. passed 8-23-
2021)
§ 34.17 WARRANT ISSUANCE; ADMINISTRATIVE FEE.
   When the Magistrate Court issues a warrant for failure to appear, non-
compliance with any court order, failure to pay a fine, failure to pay
restitution, or failure to pay any other fees or penalties, the Magistrate
shall impose an administrative fee of at least $50 upon the person for whom the
warrant is issued. This fee shall be added to the sum or sums set forth in the
warrant.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-3) (Ord. 04-03, passed 1-26-2004; Ord. 21-16. passed 8-23-
2021)
§ 34.18 DEFENSE APPOINTMENT FEE.
   The Magistrate Court shall assess each person who receives the services of a
court-appointed defense attorney and against whom an adjudication of guilt,
including pleas of “no contest”, is entered, a defense appointment fee. The
amount of the fee shall be at the discretion of the Magistrate, who shall
consider the nature, complexity, and seriousness of the charges and services
provided by the court- appointed defender, as well as the financial condition
of the person. Said fee shall not, however, be charged to any person determined
to be indigent or otherwise entitled to a waiver pursuant to this subchapter or
state or federal law.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-5) (Ord. 04-03, passed 1-26-2004; Ord. 21-16. passed 8-23-
2021)
§ 34.19 LICENSE REINSTATEMENT FEE.
   The Magistrate shall assess a license reinstatement fee of not less than $50
for processing requests for license reinstatement for those persons whose
licenses were suspended, revoked, or cancelled due to failure to comply with a
lawful order of the Magistrate Court, including, but not limited to, the
payment of fines, failing to complete counseling, alcohol or drug-screening, or
failing to appear in the Magistrate Court pursuant to civil traffic violations.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-6) (Ord. 04-03, passed 1-26-2004; Ord. 21-16. passed 8-23-
2021)
§ 34.20 DEFERRED PROSECUTION AND PROBATION FEE.
   A deferred prosecution and probation fee of not less than $25 shall be
imposed on each criminal charge for which the court defers prosecution of an
offense pursuant to Rule 38 of the state’s Rules of Criminal Procedure, or
places an offender on probation for a criminal offense. In addition to the
waivers provided in §
34.18 of this chapter, this fee shall also, upon request of the City
Prosecutor, be waived or held in abeyance during the period of deferred
prosecution or probation.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-7) (Ord. 04-03, passed 1-26-2004)
§ 34.21 ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE FEE.
   The Magistrate Court shall assess an order to show cause fee of not less
than $50 upon the person of whom an order to show cause is issued for failure
to comply with the terms of probation, payment schedule, or to other court
order.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-10) (Ord. 04-03, passed 1-26-2004; Ord. 12-04, passed 6-11-
2012; Ord. 21-16. passed 8-23-2021)
§ 34.22 CIVIL TRAFFIC DEFAULT/SUSPENSION AND ABSTRACT FEES.
   The Magistrate Court shall assess a default/suspension fee in the amount of
$50 for each default judgment entered in a civil traffic violation case based
upon such person’s failure to appear or failure to pay a civil sanction. The
Magistrate Court shall assess an abstract fee in the amount of $20. The default
fee will not be assessed if the default judgment is set aside under the Rules
of Procedure in civil traffic violation cases.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-11) (Ord. 04-03, passed 1-26-2004; Ord. 12-04, passed 6-11-
2012; Ord. 21-16. passed 8-23-2021)
§ 34.23 JAIL COST RECOVERY FEE.
   The Magistrate Court shall order a person who is convicted of a misdemeanor
offense and who is sentenced to a term of incarceration to reimburse the City
for the incarceration costs. The court may determine the amount of
incarceration costs to be paid based on the following factors:
   (A)   The per diem per person cost of incarceration incurred by the
political subdivision that incarcerates the person; and
   (B)   The person’s ability to pay part or all of the incarceration costs.
(Ord. 21-16. passed 8-23-2021)
ASSESSMENT, COLLECTION, PENALTIES, AND WAIVER OF COURT FEES
§ 34.40 ASSESSMENT AND COLLECTION OF FEES.
   The Magistrate Court shall assess and collect fees as provided for in this
subchapter. All fees assessed against a person constitute a debt of the person
and may be collected by the City. In addition to any other remedies which may
be allowed by law, the City Attorney is authorized to institute any appropriate
civil suit in a court of competent jurisdiction for recovery of the fees
referred to in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-1) (Ord. 21-16. passed 8-23-2021)
§ 34.41 FEES REQUIRED BY THE STATE.
   In each case where required by state law, there shall be imposed on the fees
imposed in this chapter a penalty or other assessment in an amount equal to the
amounts required to be collected pursuant to A.R.S. §§ 12-114.01, 12-116, 12-
116.01, 12-116.02, and 16-954(C), as may each be amended or superceded from
time to time, as well as any other statutes, ordinances, or other laws which
may be added or revised by the State Legislature, the county, or any other
governing body relating to the imposition of such surcharges.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-2) (Ord. 21-16. passed 8-23-2021)
§ 34.42 AUTHORITY TO WAIVE FEES.
   The Magistrate may waive all or a portion of the fees established by this
subchapter when, in the Magistrate’s opinion, such waiver would be in the
interest of justice. A finding that the person is indigent and has no
anticipated future source of funds from which the fee(s) may be paid would
support waiver of all or part of the fees in the interest of justice.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-3) (Ord. 21-16. passed 8-23-2021)
HOME DETENTION AND ELECTRONIC MONITORING PROGRAM
§ 34.55 AUTHORIZATION TO USE ALTERNATIVE SENTENCING OPTIONS.
   If a person is sentenced to jail confinement by the Magistrate Court, the
Magistrate may substitute home detention and monitoring for a portion or all of
the jail term, as provided in §§
34.40 through
34.42. The Magistrate Court may also sentence a person to provide community
restitution work, either as a condition of entering the home detention and
monitoring program, or as a separate term of any sentence by the Magistrate
Court.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-1) (Ord. 21-16. passed 8-23-2021)
§ 34.56 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMUNITY RESTITUTION WORK. Work, traditionally referred to as community
service, and performed by a person without compensation for the City or an
organization designated by the City, in order to provide partial restitution to
the community for the commission of the offense.
   ELECTRIC MONITORING DEVICE. Equipment that is able to continuously confirm
the location of the person to whom it is issued.
   HOME DETENTION AND ELECTRONIC MONITORING PROGRAM. A sentence that allows a
person to be released from or not serve time in jail, but requires that the
person wear an electronic monitoring device and comply with all other court
orders and requirements.
   PROVIDER. A person or entity that has entered into an agreement with the
City to provide for the issuance of electronic monitoring devices, the
continual monitoring of electronic monitoring devices, and the furnishing of
alcohol and/or drug testing as requested by the City.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-2) (Ord. 21-16. passed 8-23-2021)
§ 34.57 PERSONS NOT ELIGIBLE FOR PARTICIPATION IN THE PROGRAM.
   A person is not eligible for the home detention and electronic monitoring
program if any of the following apply:
   (A)   The person is found to constitute a risk to himself or herself or
other members of the community;
   (B)   The person has a past history of violent behavior;
   (C)   The sentencing judge states at the time of the sentence that the
person may not be eligible for the home detention and electronic monitoring
program; or
   (D)   The person has previously been a participant in the home detention and
electronic monitoring program and such participation was terminated as a result
of the violation of such person of any condition set by the court, including,
but not limited to, failure to complete a court ordered treatment program, use
of alcohol or drugs, or failure to remain within the designated premises during
the home detention.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-3) (Ord. 21-16. passed 8-23-2021)
§ 34.58 PROVIDER REQUIRED.
   Before any person may participate in the home detention and electronic
monitoring program, the City shall have entered into an agreement with one or
more providers to implement the home detention and electronic monitoring
program, requiring the provider to provide for the issuance of electronic
monitoring devices, continually monitoring those devices, and providing such
other services as the City may require.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-4) (Ord. 21-16. passed 8-23-2021)
§ 34.59 REQUIREMENTS FOR PERSONS SELECTED FOR THE PROGRAM.
   If a person is sentenced to a term of confinement by the court for an
offense other than driving under the influence:
   (A)   Except as permitted by the court pursuant to §
34.61, the person shall remain at the premises designated by the court;
   (B)   The court may order that the person be affixed with an electronic
monitoring device and be required, except as permitted by the court pursuant to
§
34.61, to remain at the premises designated by the court;
   (C)   The person shall be employed and in a job that the court determines is
suitable in both type and location of work for the home detention program. The
court may, alternatively or in addition thereto, assign the person to a
community restitution work assignment. The court may waive the requirement of
employment or community restitution in cases where the court finds the person
is incapable of employment or performing community restitution work;
   (D)   The court may place other restrictions on a person in the program,
including, but not limited to: prohibiting the use of and testing the person
for consumption of alcoholic beverages or drugs; requiring that the person
participate in a screening, education, or treatment program for alcohol,
substance abuse, or anger management purposes; requiring that the person
maintain employment without absence therefrom during the term of home
detention; participation in a community restitution work program, including
participation on weekends even if the person is also employed during the week;
and prohibiting the association of the person with individuals who are
determined to be detrimental to the person’s successful participation in the
program; and
   (E)   The person shall bear the expense and be responsible for the full
payment of all costs of home detention, testing, electronic monitoring,
counseling, treatment, or other costs related to the person’s participation in
the home detention and electronic monitoring program unless, after determining
the inability of the person to pay the cost, the court assesses a lesser
amount.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-5) (Ord. 21-16. passed 8-23-2021)
§ 34.60 REQUIREMENTS FOR PERSONS SENTENCED FOR DUI OFFENSES.
   In addition to any requirements set forth in §
34.59, if a person is sentenced to a term of confinement by the court as a
result of any driving under the influence charge:
   (A)   If the person is sentenced pursuant to A.R.S. § 28-1381(I), as amended
from time to time, the person must first serve a minimum of 24 consecutive
hours in jail;
   (B)   If the person is sentenced pursuant to A.R.S. § 28-1381(K), as amended
from time to time, or A.R.S. § 28-1382(D) or (E), as amended from time to time,
the person must first serve a minimum of 15 consecutive days in jail before
being eligible to be placed in home detention;
   (C)   The person shall have an electronic monitoring device affixed to them
throughout the term in jail confinement ordered by the court;
   (D)   The person shall bear the full cost of all testing, monitoring, and
enrollment in the home detention and electronic monitoring program, as well as
all alcohol or substance abuse programs unless, after determining the inability
of the person to pay the cost, the court assesses a lesser amount;
   (E)   The person shall be employed and in a job that the court determines is
suitable in both type and location of work for the home detention program. The
court may, alternatively or in addition thereto, assign the person to a
community restitution work assignment. The court may waive the requirement of
employment or community restitution to cases where the court finds the person
is incapable of employment or performing community restitution work;
   (F)   The person shall be subject to testing at least once a day for the use
of alcoholic beverages or drugs by a scientific method that is not limited to
urinalysis or a breath or intoxication test in the person’s home or the office
of a person designated by the court to conduct these tests;
   (G)   The person shall participate in an alcohol or drug program, or both as
determined by the court. These programs must be accredited by the Department of
Health Services or a County Probation Department;
   (H)   The person shall be prohibited from associating with any individual
determined to be detrimental to the person’s successful participation in the
program;
   (I)   The person shall, if consecutive hours of jail time are ordered,
remain at home during the consecutive hours ordered;
   (J)   The person shall fully comply with any additional conditions or terms
set forth by the court in any order establishing the person’s sentence or
eligibility for the home detention and electronic monitoring program; and
   (K)   The person shall, except as set forth in §
34.61, remain at the premises designated by the court.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-6) (Ord. 21-16. passed 8-23-2021)
§ 34.61 PERMISSION BY COURT TO LEAVE PREMISES.
   The court may permit a person in the home detention and electronic
monitoring program, who has first secured the written permission of the court,
to leave the designated premises to:
   (A)   Be employed outside the home;
   (B)   Conduct community restitution work;
   (C)   Attend classes at accredited education institutions;
   (D)   Attend funerals and religious services;
   (E)   Attend medical appointments; and
   (F)   Travel to a provider’s location as required by the provider to ensure
payment of fees or proper operation of the electronic monitoring device.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-7) (Ord. 21-16. passed 8-23-2021)
§ 34.62 COMMUNITY RESTITUTION WORK COMMITTEE.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Community Restitution Work Committee for the
City. The Committee shall consist of no fewer than five members and no more
than seven members and shall be appointed by the City Manager or his or her
designee.
   (B)   All members shall serve without compensation.
   (C)   The Committee shall recommend to the court appropriate community
restitution work projects for persons in the home detention and electronic
monitoring program. All such projects shall be either public works projects
operated and supervised by the City or other public agencies of the state, or
be projects sponsored and supervised by public or private community oriented
organizations and agencies.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-8) (Ord. 21-16. passed 8-23-2021)
§ 34.63 TERMINATION OF PARTICIPATION IN THE PROGRAM.
   (A)   The court shall terminate a person’s participation in the home
detention and electronic monitoring program and require the person to complete
the remaining term of any jail sentence by jail confinement if the person fails
to successfully complete a court ordered alcohol or drug screening, counseling,
education and treatment program, or the court finds that the person left the
premises without permission of the court or supervising authority during a time
that the person was ordered to be on the premises.
   (B)   The court may terminate a person’s participation in the home detention
and electronic monitoring program at any other time for any reason and, if
terminated, may require the person to complete the remaining term of any jail
sentence.
   (C)   If the City Council, by a majority vote of its full membership,
terminates the home detention and electronic monitoring program, then a
person’s participation in the home detention and electronic monitoring program
shall terminate on the effective date of the home detention and electronic
monitoring program’s termination.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-9) (Ord. 21-16. passed 8-23-2021)
§ 34.64 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE FOR PARTICIPATION IN THE PROGRAM.
   In addition to paying for the full cost of participating in the home
detention and electronic monitoring program as set forth elsewhere in this
subchapter, a person subject to electronic monitoring shall pay an
administrative fee of $30 per month to the City while on electronic monitoring,
unless, after determining the inability of the person to pay these fees, the
court assesses a lesser fee.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-10) (Ord. 21-16. passed 8-23-2021)
CHAPTER 35: CITY POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Adoption of the City Tax Code
   
35.02   No smoking policy for City buildings and vehicles
Economic Development Incentives
   
35.15   Definitions
   
35.16   Authorization to rebate fees, City sales tax revenues, and expend
public funds in furtherance of economic development in the City
   
35.17   Criteria
   
35.18   Agreement required
   
35.19   Owner/developer obligations
   
35.20   Reports to the Council
 
   
35.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 ADOPTION OF THE CITY TAX CODE.
   The document known as “The City Tax Code of the City of Coolidge, Arizona”,
made a public record by Resolution 97-33, is hereby adopted as the City Tax
Code and made a part of this chapter the same as though said Code was
specifically set forth herein; and at least three copies of said Code shall be
filed in the office of the City Clerk and kept available for public use and
inspection.
(Prior Code, § 9-1)
§ 35.02 NO SMOKING POLICY FOR CITY BUILDINGS AND VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BUILDING. Any building owned, leased, or occupied by the City and used
for City services. This definition shall not apply to buildings that are leased
by the City to private companies or agencies.
      CITY VEHICLE. Any vehicle or motorized piece of equipment owned or leased
by the City and used for City services.
      SMOKING. Burning or carrying any lighted cigarette, lighted tobacco, or
any other lighted weed or plant or placing any burning tobacco, weed, or plant
in an ashtray or other receptacle and allowing smoke to diffuse into the air.
This definition shall not include the burning of incense.
(Prior Code, § 10-8-1)
   (B)   Smoking prohibited. Smoking shall be prohibited in all buildings and
vehicles owned, leased, or occupied by the City. This section shall not apply
to buildings that are leased by the City to private companies or agencies.
(Prior Code, § 10-8-2) Penalty, see §
35.99
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INCENTIVES
§ 35.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPLIANCE PERIOD. The time period specified in the agreement between the
owner/developer and the City during which the owner/developer shall comply with
§
35.17 criteria on which it supported its eligibility for the incentives or
enhancements in §
35.16. The COMPLIANCE PERIOD may be longer than the time period for payment of
the incentives or enhancements to the owner/developer.
   EXPANSION OF AN EXISTING INDUSTRIAL OR COMMERCIAL PROJECT. An increase in
the land, buildings, equipment, or machinery of an enterprise which is the same
in function as the existing land use or enterprise in the location being
considered for incentives or enhancements.
   NEW INDUSTRIAL OR COMMERCIAL PROJECT. An enterprise which is different in
function from the land use or enterprise in the location being considered for
incentives or enhancements.
   RETAIL. A commercial enterprise which sells tangible goods to a buyer who is
the end user or consumer.
(Prior Code, § 23-1)
§ 35.16 AUTHORIZATION TO REBATE FEES, CITY SALES TAX REVENUES, AND EXPEND
PUBLIC FUNDS IN FURTHERANCE OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT IN THE CITY.
   (A)   The City may encourage economic development and authorize the rebate
of certain fees, except development fees enacted pursuant to the authority of
A.R.S. § 9-463.05, taxes, or provide construction of off-site public
improvements including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Any or all fees required to be paid in connection with the
construction or expansion of a commercial or industrial project, including, but
not limited to, plan checking fees, inspection fees, and sewer connection fees;
      (2)   General funds to pay the costs of construction of off-site public
improvements which the City determines are required to be constructed in
connection with an industrial or commercial project;
      (3)   All or a portion of the sales tax revenues levied, generated, and
received by the City as a result of the construction of a new industrial or
commercial project or the expansion of an existing industrial or commercial
project, unless such sales tax revenues are subject to a prior senior pledge;
and
      (4)   All or a portion of the property tax revenues levied, generated,
and received by the City as a result of the construction of a new industrial or
commercial project or the expansion of an existing industrial or commercial
project, unless such tax revenues are subject to a prior senior pledge.
   (B)   Commercial projects which are eligible for the incentives or
enhancement established in this section do not include retail projects.
(Prior Code, § 23-2)
§ 35.17 CRITERIA.
   (A)   The City shall not grant the incentives authorized in §
35.16 without finding the potential owner/developer meets the following:
      (1)   The rebating of the fees, expenditure of the funds, or rebate of
City sales tax revenues will assist in the creation or retention of a
significant number of jobs in the City with the hourly average wage for non-
exempt positions (pursuant to the FSLA) of at least 75% higher than the federal
minimum hourly wage and wherein the owner/developer pays at least 25% of its
average hourly wage for non-exempt positions in benefits; and
      (2)   New eligible industrial and commercial projects must expend a
minimum of $1,500,000 in equipment, machinery, land, and building improvements
as its initial investment at a single location; or expansions of existing
eligible industrial and commercial projects must expend a minimum of $750,000
in equipment, machinery, land, and building improvements as its expansion
investment at a single location.
   (B)   The City may also consider the following factors in determining
whether the potential owner/developer should be granted incentives:
      (1)   Economic development will be furthered by rebating the fees,
expenditure of funds, or rebate of City sales tax revenues;
      (2)   The owner/developer’s operation will otherwise improve or enhance
the economic welfare of the citizens of the City;
      (3)   The owner/developer’s operation will not disproportionately expend
natural resources or public infrastructure and services, such as transportation
infrastructure or public safety services;
      (4)   The benefits the City will receive from the industrial or
commercial project outweigh the economic costs to the City, as demonstrated
through the City’s fiscal impact analysis model; and
      (5)   The owner/developer’s use of and availability of other funds and
rebates from the City or other sources, including other governmental entities.
(Prior Code, § 23-3)
§ 35.18 AGREEMENT REQUIRED.
   In order to utilize the incentives provided in §
35.16, the owner/developer and the City must enter into an enforceable
agreement, including a development agreement pursuant to A.R.S. § 9-500.05, as
to the terms and conditions of the development and such other provisions as may
be requested by the City. The agreement must be consistent with requirements of
this chapter and shall further identify the rights and obligations of the
parties. The City may request that the agreement be secured or collateralized
such that the owner/developer’s obligations are reasonably assured.
(Prior Code, § 23-4)
§ 35.19 OWNER/DEVELOPER OBLIGATIONS.
   The owner/developer, in order to receive, or continue receiving, incentives
or enhancements, shall:
   (A)   Provide information, including capital investment and employment
projections, to enable the City to prepare a fiscal impact analysis;
   (B)   Begin construction of the improvements within 12 months from the
effective date of the agreement required pursuant to §
35.18;
   (C)   Complete construction, remodeling, or improvement within 24 months of
the date of the offer or effective date of the agreement required pursuant to §
35.18 with the City, unless otherwise provided in such agreement;
   (D)   Upon purchase of the parcel or parcels for the economic development
project, commence construction of the improvements no later than 90 days after
issuance by City of a building permit;
   (E)   Comply with such zoning, building, and planning requirements as are
applicable to construction of said improvements, including cooperating with the
City in connection with site plan approvals and the obtaining of such other
permits as are required in connection with the development of the land and
construction and occupancy of the improvements;
   (F)   Provide the City with information necessary for the City to complete
its fiscal impact analysis model. Such information shall not include
proprietary or certain financial information that, in the reasonable opinion of
the owner/developer, could be used to the owner/developer’s competitive
disadvantage by market competitors;
   (G)   Be wholly responsible for paying City impact fees, development fees,
plan check fees, permit fees, expedited review fees, and fees required by the
City for studies, reports, and other project- related analyses;
   (H)   Make every reasonable effort to have improvements satisfactorily
completed, to obtain a certificate of occupancy, and to have the economic
development project open for business on or before the date certain which shall
be identified in the agreement required pursuant to §
35.18; and
   (I)   On each anniversary date of the issuance of the certificate of
occupancy through the compliance period, provide to the City Manager an
informational update, including capital investment and employment projections,
which demonstrates the developer’s compliance with its obligations under its
agreement with the City.
(Prior Code, § 23-5)
§ 35.20 REPORTS TO THE COUNCIL.
   The City Manager shall, within 30 days of his or her receipt, submit to the
City Council the reports received from the owner/developer in compliance with §
35.19(I).
(Prior Code, § 23-6)
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who smokes in violation of §
35.02 shall be cited for a civil offense, punishable by a fine not to exceed
$100 for the first offense, $200 for the second offense, and $300 for the third
offense.
(Prior Code, § 10-8-2)
CHAPTER 36: PROCUREMENT CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   General authority to expend funds
   
36.02   Purchase orders required
   
36.03   Emergency expenditures
   
36.04   Expenditures; signatures on checks and ratification
   
36.05   Quotation or bid requirements
   
36.06   Sealed bid procedures
   
36.07   Selection of supplier
   
36.08   Application to employees and professional services
   
36.09   Utilization of bids from other governmental agencies
   
36.10   Sole/preferred vendors
   
36.11   Right to waive regulations
   
36.12   Imposition of additional requirements
   
36.13   Federally funded purchases
   
36.14   Enforcement
   
36.15   Audit of records
Right to Protest; Appeals and Remedies
   
36.30   Right to protest
   
36.31   Authority to resolve protests
   
36.32   Filing of a protest
   
36.33   Time for filing protests
   
36.34   Notice of protest
   
36.35   Notice of decision
   
36.36   Finality of decision
   
36.37   Stay of procurement during protests
Authority to Resolve Contract Disputes
   
36.50   Applicability
   
36.51   Authority
   
36.52   Decision
   
36.53   Notice of decision
   
36.54   Finality of decision
   
36.55   Failure to render timely decision
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 GENERAL AUTHORITY TO EXPEND FUNDS.
   Council approval of the annual municipal budget shall be construed to
include authority for the making of municipal expenditures as set forth in said
budget except as may be otherwise provided by the Council by resolution. City
Council approval shall be required for any purchase that exceeds $25,000
(except for emergency purchases made in accordance with § 36.03).
(Prior Code, § 22-1) (Ord. 15-17, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 36.02 PURCHASE ORDERS REQUIRED.
   All municipal purchases shall be by written purchase order or written
request with authorization.
(Prior Code, § 22-2) (Ord. 15-17, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 36.03 EMERGENCY EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, the City Manager
or designee may make or authorize others to make emergency procurements of
materials, goods, or services when there exists a threat or severe impairment
to the quality of public health, welfare, or safety, or if a situation exists
which makes compliance with established procurement processes impracticable,
unnecessary, or contrary to the public interest; provided, that such emergency
procurements shall be made with such competition as is practicable under the
circumstances.
   (B)   An emergency procurement shall be limited to those materials, goods,
or services necessary to satisfy the emergency need. A written determination of
the basis for the emergency and for the selection of the particular contractor
shall be submitted to Council and included in the purchase file. Any emergency
procurement exceeding the dollar limit for Council approval shall be scheduled
for review at the next available Council meeting. Nothing in §§
36.05 through
36.07 shall be construed to pertain to emergency purchases.
(Prior Code, § 22-3) (Ord. 15-17, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 36.04 EXPENDITURES; SIGNATURES ON CHECKS AND RATIFICATION.
   All checks for expenditures of City monies shall bear two signatures:
   (A)   A signature of the Court Administrator, City Clerk, or City Manager;
and
   (B)   A signature of one City Council member as designated by Council
action.
(Prior Code, § 22-4) (Ord. 15-17, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 36.05 QUOTATION OR BID REQUIREMENTS.
   Except as otherwise provided under federal and state laws and in §§
36.03 and
36.06 through
36.12, prior to purchase of goods and services, quotations or bids shall be
solicited according to the following schedule.
 
Dollar Range       
$0.00 – $5,000  Whether quotations or bids are solicited shall be at the
                  discretion of the City Manager.
$5,001 – $10,000A minimum of three verbal quotations shall be solicited.
$10,001 – $25,00A minimum of three written quotations shall be solicited.
                  Newspaper advertised sealed bids shall be solicited from a
                  minimum of three sources. The City Council may waive the
$25,001 and over  sealed bid and/or advertisement requirement(s) if it
                  determines that such a waiver is in the best interest of the
                  City.
 
(Prior Code, § 22-5) (Ord. 15-17, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 36.06 SEALED BID PROCEDURES.
   (A)   A request for sealed bids may include the requirement that each bidder
furnish a performance bond, in cash or otherwise, sufficient to secure the
performance sought.
   (B)   Sealed bids shall be submitted to the City Manager or designee prior
to the deadline. A time/date stamp shall be affixed to the sealed bid. Bids
shall be opened in public at the time and location designated in the
advertisement for bids by the City Manager or designee. A tabulation of all
bids received shall be delivered to the Council at the next regular meeting or
special meeting. The City Manager or designee shall report to the City Council
as to whether each bid meets the City’s requirements, and shall further advise
the Council regarding the award of the contract. A tabulation of all bids
received shall be retained on file and shall be open to public inspection as
required under state law.
   (C)   Awarding of contracts based upon sealed bids shall be by Council
action, and the Council shall retain the right to reject any or all bids.
Notice of the provisions of this section shall be included in the call for
bids. In the event of the rejection of all bids received by the Council, or of
partial rejection of any bid, the City Council reserves the right to direct the
City Manager to negotiate the terms of a contract when such negotiation is in
the best interests of the City. Final approval of any said contract shall be by
City Council action.
   (D)   Contracts shall be awarded by the City Council to the lowest bidder,
except as otherwise provided under federal law, state law, or this chapter.
   (E)   If two or more bids received are for the same total amount or unit
price on purchases exceeding $25,000 (quality and service being equal and if
the public interest will not permit the delay of re-advertising for bids), the
Council may take one or more of the following actions:
      (1)   Except as provided in section (E)(3) below, Council may give
preference to local firms as set forth in §
36.07(B). When two or more local firms are otherwise equal in their bids,
Council shall determine the successful bidder by lot between the local firms;
      (2)   In cases where there are no bids received from local firms, Council
shall determine the successful bidder by lot; or
      (3)   Local preference shall not apply where state or federal laws
prohibit the granting of such preference or require another method for
competitive bidding.
(Prior Code, § 22-6) (Ord. 15-17, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 36.07 SELECTION OF SUPPLIER.
   (A)   Purchases shall be from suppliers offering the lowest price, except
that the City may purchase at other than the lowest price for reasons including
quality, ability of supplier to promptly furnish and deliver goods and services
quoted or bid, or compatibility with existing equipment, structures, or ongoing
service requirements.
   (B)   Locally licensed businesses with a business location within the City
corporate limits shall be accorded a 5% preference for all purchases. This
preference shall not be used where state law or any applicable federal statute
or regulation forbids the granting of such preference, or requires another
method for competitive bidding.
(Prior Code, § 22-7) (Ord. 15-17, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 36.08 APPLICATION TO EMPLOYEES AND PROFESSIONAL SERVICES.
   (A)   Nothing in §§
36.05 through
36.07 shall be construed to pertain to the hiring of municipal employees.
   (B)   The requirements of §§
36.05 through
36.07 do not apply to the procurement of professional or technical services,
but the purchasing director shall determine the scope of the services required
and shall have the option to require the submission of proposals prior to
engaging such services. For purposes of this section, PROFESSIONAL OR TECHNICAL
SERVICES means those services requiring specialized knowledge, education,
skill, or expertise and where the qualifications of the person(s) rendering the
services are of primary importance. Professional and technical services shall
include, but not be limited to, services provided by architects, attorneys,
accountants, construction and project managers, dentists, design professionals,
engineers, geologists, physicians, nurses, psychologists, teachers,
veterinarians, and health care providers, which provide a combination of
professional and paraprofessional services or any other professional and
technical service as defined under state law.
   (C)   No contractor practicing in a professional or technical field for
which a license is required by state law shall be engaged by the City unless
the contractor possesses a current license in good standing.
   (D)   Upon engagement, the City shall enter into a written agreement for the
performance of the services for which engaged, setting forth the scope of
services and the unit or total price therefor.
   (E)   Professional and technical services shall be procured in accordance
with federal and state law whenever applicable.
(Prior Code, § 22-8) (Ord. 15-17, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 36.09 UTILIZATION OF BIDS FROM OTHER GOVERNMENTAL AGENCIES.
   The City may accept federal, state, county, and City contract prices
acquired through like procedures as outlined in §§
36.05 through
36.07. Purchases over $25,000 require Council action.
(Prior Code, § 22-9) (Ord. 15-17, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 36.10 SOLE/PREFERRED VENDORS.
   A sole/preferred vendor list for the purchasing of services or products when
there is only one vendor that provides the specific service or product, or
where it is in the best interest of the City not to seek bids, shall be
approved by Council action and kept on file in the Finance Department.
(Prior Code, § 22-10) (Ord. 15-17, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 36.11 RIGHT TO WAIVE REGULATIONS.
   The City Council, by a majority vote, may waive any of the rules or
regulations herein stated when it is determined that a waiver is in the best
interest of the City, unless prohibited by federal or state laws.
(Prior Code, § 22-11) (Ord. 15-17, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 36.12 IMPOSITION OF ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The City Manager may, at his or her discretion, in matters involving
purchases made under his or her authority, impose requirements for the seeking
of quotations or bids according to standards more stringent than those provided
in §
36.05, unless prohibited by federal or state laws.
(Prior Code, § 22-12) (Ord. 15-17, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 36.13 FEDERALLY FUNDED PURCHASES.
   Purchases using funding from the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) shall
comply with all applicable FTA procurement requirements, including, but not
limited to, the following:
   (A)   Required FTA clauses shall be included in all procurement and contract
documents, excluding micro-purchases;
   (B)   FTA funded contracts shall only be awarded to responsible contractors
possessing the ability, willingness, and integrity to perform successfully
under the terms and conditions of the contract. When awarding a contract, the
procedures used to determine a contractor’s responsibility shall be documented
and shall include compliance with City rules and regulations and state laws;
   (C)   FTA funded contracts shall not exceed five years in length;
   (D)   For purchases greater than $25,000, a system for award management
(SAM) search shall be performed to determine if a vendor is debarred or
suspended and the results of the SAM search shall be documented; and
   (E)   Quotes and sealed bid requirements shall follow FTA procurement
threshold requirements which the City shall not waive at its discretion.
(Prior Code, § 22-13) (Ord. 15-17, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 36.14 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the City Manager to enforce the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   The City Manager shall prepare such reports as may be necessary for
the Council to act in keeping with the provisions of this chapter, and maintain
such records as may be necessary to demonstrate that the provisions of this
chapter have been met.
   (C)   The records of payments for goods or services shall include written
verification that the provisions of this chapter have been met.
(Prior Code, § 22-14) (Ord. 15-17, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 36.15 AUDIT OF RECORDS.
   The annual audit of municipal records shall include an examination of
records necessary under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 22-17) (Ord. 15-17, passed 12-14-2015)
RIGHT TO PROTEST; APPEALS AND REMEDIES
§ 36.30 RIGHT TO PROTEST.
   Any actual or prospective bidder, offeror, or contractor who is aggrieved in
connection with the solicitation or award of a contract pursuant to this
chapter may protest to the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 22-15-1)
§ 36.31 AUTHORITY TO RESOLVE PROTESTS.
   The City Manager or designee shall have the authority, prior to the
commencement of any court action regarding the controversy, to settle and
resolve a protest of an aggrieved bidder, offeror, or contractor, actual or
prospective, concerning the solicitation or award of a contract.
(Prior Code, § 22-15-2)
§ 36.32 FILING OF A PROTEST.
   Any protest shall be in writing and shall include the following information:
   (A)   The name, current address, and telephone number of the protester;
   (B)   The signature of the protester or its representative;
   (C)   Identification of the solicitation or contract number; and
   (D)   A detailed statement of the legal and factual grounds of the protest,
including:
      (1)   Copies of relevant documents; and
      (2)   The form of relief requested.
(Prior Code, § 22-15-3)
§ 36.33 TIME FOR FILING PROTESTS.
   The time for filing protests shall be as follows.
   (A)   If a protest is based upon any alleged improprieties occurring in a
solicitation prior to the deadline date of a solicitation response, such a
protest must be filed prior to the deadline date. Otherwise, any protests based
on any alleged improprieties in a solicitation during this time frame will be
deemed waived.
   (B)   If a protest is based upon any alleged improprieties occurring upon or
after the deadline date for a solicitation response, such protest must be filed
prior to the award of the contract. Otherwise, any protests based on any
alleged improprieties during this time frame will be deemed waived.
   (C)   Protests concerning alleged improprieties that do not exist in the
initial solicitation but that allegedly exist in the subsequently incorporated
addendum to the solicitation shall be filed by the next deadline date for
receipt of addendum responses.
   (D)   Protests concerning awards shall be filed within ten business days
after the contract has been awarded.
   (E)   The City Manager may grant a written request for an extension of time
to file a protest, up no more than 30 days, but only if all of the following
apply:
      (1)   The request is submitted prior to the deadline to file the original
protest;
      (2)   The request sets forth good cause as to why the extension is
necessary; and
      (3)   The request sets forth good cause as to why the protest could not
be filed within the deadline.
   (F)   Failure to file a written request for an extension of time prior to
the deadline shall waive any right to request an extension and shall waive any
right to protest.
   (G)   The City Manager shall issue a written decision regarding a timely
request for an extension, which sets forth the grounds for denying or granting
said request. If an extension request is granted, the written decision shall
also set forth the deadline to file a protest.
(Prior Code, § 22-15-4)
§ 36.34 NOTICE OF PROTEST.
   The City Manager or designee shall immediately give notice of a protest to
all relevant parties.
(Prior Code, § 22-15-5)
§ 36.35 NOTICE OF DECISION.
   A copy of the decision under §
36.33 shall be mailed or otherwise furnished immediately to the protester.
(Prior Code, § 22-15-6)
§ 36.36 FINALITY OF DECISION.
   A decision under §
36.33 shall be final and conclusive unless fraudulent.
(Prior Code, § 22-15-7)
§ 36.37 STAY OF PROCUREMENT DURING PROTESTS.
   In the event of a timely protest under this subchapter, the City shall not
proceed further with the solicitation or with the award of the contract until
the City Manager makes a written determination that the award of the contract
without delay is necessary to protect the interests of the City.
(Prior Code, § 22-15-8)
AUTHORITY TO RESOLVE CONTRACT DISPUTES
§ 36.50 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter applies to controversies between the City and a contractor
that arise under, or by virtue of, a contract between the parties.
(Prior Code, § 22-16-1)
§ 36.51 AUTHORITY.
   The City Manager or designee is authorized, prior to commencement of an
action in a court concerning the controversy, to settle and resolve a
controversy described in §
36.50.
(Prior Code, § 22-16-2)
§ 36.52 DECISION.
   If such a controversy is not resolved by mutual agreement, the City Manager
or designee of either officer shall promptly issue a decision in writing. The
decision shall state the reasons for the action taken and inform the contractor
of its right to judicial review.
(Prior Code, § 22-16-3)
§ 36.53 NOTICE OF DECISION.
   A copy of the decision under §
36.52 shall be mailed or otherwise furnished immediately to the contractor.
(Prior Code, § 22-16-4)
§ 36.54 FINALITY OF DECISION.
   The decision under §
36.52 shall be final and conclusive unless fraudulent.
(Prior Code, § 22-16-5)
§ 36.55 FAILURE TO RENDER TIMELY DECISION.
   If the City Manager or designee fails to issue a written decision required
under §
36.52 within 120 days after a written request for a final decision by the
contractor, or within such longer period as may be agreed upon by the parties,
then the contractor may proceed as though an adverse decision was issued.
(Prior Code, § 22-16-6)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   SEWER
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
Solid Waste Services and Charges
   
50.001   Definitions
   
50.002   General requirements
   
50.003   Solid waste by City; fees and charges
   
50.004   Solid waste collection for commercial premises
Preparation of Solid Waste for Collection
   
50.015   Preparation of solid waste
   
50.016   Collection schedule and hours
   
50.017   Location for pick-up
   
50.018   Covers
   
50.019   Use of containers
   
50.020   Time of placement
Other Methods of Solid Waste Removal
   
50.035   Hauling solid waste
   
50.036   Vehicles and receptacles to be spill-proof
   
50.037   Spilled solid waste
   
50.038   Dumping solid waste
Sanitary Landfill
   
50.050   Dumping
   
50.051   Fees
   
50.052   Manner of dumping
   
50.053   Prohibited dumping
   
50.054   Dumping agreements
   
50.055   Solid waste becomes City property
Administration and Enforcement
   
50.070   Administration and enforcement
   
50.071   City right to inspect; notice of violation
Solid Waste Fee Schedule
   
50.085   Solid waste collection by City; fees and charges
   
50.086   Commercial haulers; fees and charges
 
   
50.999   Penalty
SOLID WASTE SERVICES AND CHARGES
§ 50.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Public Works Director or designee.
   BUILDING MATERIALS. All materials used in the construction of a building or
structure including, but not limited to, concrete, wood, building blocks or
brick, plumbing and electrical materials, dry wall, insulation, roofing, and
the like and parts thereof.
   BULK TRASH. Materials accumulating or resulting from the use or occupation
of any buildings, dwelling place, or premises including, but not limited to,
building materials, tree and bush trimmings, furniture, appliances, boxes, and
crates.
   CITY CONTAINER. A container used for the placement of refuse for collection
by either the City or its authorized representative.
   COMMERCIAL CONTAINER. A container used for the placement of refuse for
collection by a permittee pursuant to this chapter.
   COMMERCIAL HAULER. Any person engaged in collecting, removing, transporting,
or hauling solid waste on or along any public street, avenue, or alley within
the City.
   COMMERCIAL HAULER PERMIT or PERMIT. The permit issued by the City for the
collection of solid waste by a permittee.
   COMMERCIAL PREMISES. All places of business, commercial, professional, or
industrial establishments, all schools, motels, or hotels, all mobile homes or
RV parks with centralized collection locations, and all multi-family
residential housing as defined under A.R.S. § 49-746.
   CUSTOMER. The property owner, person, renter, lessee, occupant, government
agency, and/or entity responsible for the payment of City services.
   DANGEROUS OR HAZARDOUS WASTE. Has the meaning set forth in A.R.S. § 49-921
(5), and HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTE shall have the meaning set forth in A.R.S. §
49-701(13).
   DWELLING UNIT. A residential, single-family dwelling, and each separate
apartment dwelling of a duplex, triplex, or fourplex, up to and including four
apartments, and including upstairs, basement, garage, or detached apartment or
housing units.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible wastes, except sewage and body wastes, including
all organic wastes that have been prepared for, or intended to be used as, food
or have resulted from the preparation of food, including, but not limited to,
all such substances from all public and private establishments and residences.
   GENERATOR. The person who produces or generates the solid waste to which the
provisions of this chapter apply.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. A place predominately renting living quarters to travelers
on a daily rental basis.
   NON-COMMERCIAL ACCOUNT. A non-commercial premises that receives solid waste
collection services from the City or from its authorized representative.
   NON-COMMERCIAL PREMISES. A fraternal, charitable, or civic organization, or
church.
   PERMITTEE. A commercial hauler with a valid hauler permit issued by the
City.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, company, corporation, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents, or
assigns.
   PREMISES. Land, building, or other structures, or parts thereof.
   REFUSE. Waste material other than garbage and bulk trash, such as, but not
limited to, papers, paper wrappers, plastic cups, cans, bottles, food boxes,
and the like.
   RESIDENTIAL ACCOUNT. A residential premises that receives solid waste
collection services from the City or from its authorized representative using
City containers.
   RESIDENTIAL PREMISES. A dwelling unit as defined under A.R.S. § 33-1310.
   SECONDARY HAULER. Any person engaged in a business that generates, collects,
removes, or hauls solid waste as a by-product of its primary business. Examples
of SECONDARY HAULERS include carpet installers, roofing companies, and
landscape contractors.
   SOLID WASTE. Has the meaning set forth in A.R.S. § 49-701.01(A), without the
exclusions set forth in A.R.S. § 49-701.01(B).
   SOLID WASTE COLLECTION SERVICES or CITY SERVICES. The collection and
disposal of solid waste by the City.
   UNACCEPTABLE WASTE. The following types of solid wastes that may not be
placed in a City-provided roll-off or refuse container: liquid waste; septic
tank pumpings; hazardous waste; household hazardous waste; special waste as
defined in A.R.S. § 49-851(A); sludge; vehicle bodies; vehicle tires or
equipment tires; livestock or dead domestic animals; batteries, other than
small alkaline batteries; ammunition; medical waste as defined in A.R.S. § 49-
701(19); radioactive waste; scrap metal; household construction and demolition
debris; concrete; and dirt and rocks.
(Prior Code, § 21-1-1) (Ord. 15-18, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 50.002 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Generator responsibilities. Generators shall be responsible for
compliance with all applicable federal, state, and local laws relating to the
solid waste generated, including compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   Property owner and tenant responsibilities. Property owners and
tenants shall be responsible for compliance with all applicable federal, state,
and local laws relating to the solid waste generated, accumulated, stored, or
otherwise deposited on their property, including compliance with this chapter.
   (C)   Residential and non-commercial premises. Except as otherwise provided
in this chapter, all residential and non-commercial premises shall pay for
solid waste collection by the City, regardless of whether said premises take
advantage of the services.
   (D)   Commercial premises. All commercial premises shall be required to
contract with a commercial hauler that is permitted to provide such collection
activities in the City pursuant to §
50.004 to dispose of all solid waste produced onsite. In special circumstances,
a commercial premises may utilize City services for the collection of solid
waste and be charged the City’s rate for non-commercial services based on the
location of the commercial premises and the volume of solid waste produced
onsite, as determined by the Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 21-1-2) (Ord. 15-18, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 50.003 SOLID WASTE BY CITY; FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Collection by City.
      (1)   There is established a system of solid waste collection services
for residential and noncommercial premises. It is unlawful for anyone other
than the City or its authorized representative to engage in the business of
collecting, transporting, hauling, or conveying of any solid waste from
residential and non-commercial premises within the City, or to dump or dispose
of the same.
      (2)   The monthly charges for all residential accounts and non-commercial
accounts shall be as set by Council and set forth in §§
50.085 and
50.086.
      (3)   Fourplexes with a single owner and non-commercial premises may
request a 300- gallon City container in place of a 96-gallon City container.
The Director of Public Works shall have the discretion to approve or deny such
a request.
      (4)   Residential premises located in rural or outlying areas may request
a 300-gallon City container with once a week pickup in place of the 96-gallon
City container. The Director of Public Works shall have the discretion to
approve or deny such a request.
   (B)   Management of solid waste collection services. The City Council shall
have the power to prescribe such other and further rates, rules, and
regulations as it may deem necessary in connection with the control and
management of solid waste collection services.
   (C)   Application for service.
      (1)   Any new property owner (or his or her agent) or occupant of a
residential or non-commercial premises shall submit to the Finance Department
ownership or other information as required by the Finance Director or designee
and pay all outstanding amounts owed by the customer for solid waste collection
services provided to any other premises.
      (2)   The City may refuse to provide solid waste collection services for
any good and sufficient reason, including, but not limited to, the following:
service not available under a standard rate; service which involves excessive
service expense; service which may affect the service to other customers; the
applicant is delinquent in payment of any monies due to the City; and any other
reasons that in the judgment of the Finance Director or his or her designee
makes it impractical for the City to provide solid waste collection services.
   (D)   Deposit. The City may require deposits for any solid waste collection
services provided by the City before such service is provided. The total amount
of the deposit shall be determined by taking into consideration the anticipated
amounts which will be billed for services provided, the past payment record, if
any, of the customer, and any other information the City may deem necessary in
order to provide an adequate deposit. The deposit will not be less than the
amount established by resolution. Deposits shall be non-interest bearing and
shall be refunded to the customer upon discontinuance of service and payment of
charges, provided that charges may be deducted from said security deposit
before the refund is made.
   (E)   Set-up fee. The City Council may determine a pre-paid set-up fee for
solid waste collection services provided by the City. The set-up fee shall be
applied to new service and/or each time service is discontinued or suspended
and then reestablished.
   (F)   Bulk trash special non-compliance fee. The City may charge a fee, in
an amount to be determined by City Council, for the collection and/or disposal
of bulk trash that exceeds the allowed set out size limit or approved location
as provided in this chapter when such collection and/or disposal is made by the
City after a customer fails to timely comply with a notice of inspection issued
pursuant to §
50.071(B).
   (G)   Payment responsibility. Customer shall be responsible for the payment
of all bills related to solid waste collection services.
   (H)   Discontinuance of service. Any customer who desires to discontinue
solid waste collection services shall make a formal request to the Finance
Department at least three business days in advance of the requested termination
of service. Until a request to discontinue service is received and the City
container returned to the City, such premises shall be deemed occupied and the
customer’s payment responsibility for solid waste collection services provided
to the premises will continue.
      (1)   The City may discontinue solid waste collection services under any
of the following conditions:
         (a)   To prevent fraud or abuse;
         (b)   Disregard of the City rules pertaining to solid waste collection
services;
         (c)   Emergency repairs;
         (d)   Insufficient supply caused by factors outside the control of the
City;
         (e)   Legal process;
         (f)   Direction of public authorities;
         (g)   Local emergency requiring emergency measures; and
         (h)   Non-payment of any monies due to the City for any services,
fines, or assessments billed to the customer.
      (2)   If any residential accounts and non-commercial account is destroyed
by fire or by an act of God or damaged to the extent that it is uninhabitable,
or is demolished and removed from the property, then upon written notice by the
property owner and the inspection and verification thereof by an authorized
agent of the City, the Clerk shall discontinue solid waste collection services
for said account.
   (I)   Suspension of service.
      (1)   Suspension by the City under certain conditions. Solid waste
collection services may be suspended by the City under any of the following
conditions:
         (a)   Premises not occupied; or
         (b)   Seasonal customers.
      (2)   Suspension by customer. Any customer who desires to suspend solid
waste collection services shall do so on a calendar quarter basis (January 1 –
March 31; April 1 – June 30; July 1 – September 30; October 1 – December 31)
and shall complete and file an application to suspend service with the Finance
Department at least three business days in advance of the requested suspension
of service. Until an application to suspend service is received by the Finance
Department and the City container is returned to the City, the premises shall
be deemed to be occupied and the customer’s payment responsibility for solid
waste collection services will continue.
      (3)   Discontinuance of services for vacant premises. If the customer, in
its application to suspend services, certifies that the premises owned or
controlled by him or her has been or will be completely vacant and unoccupied
continuously and that no solid waste has or shall accumulate on said premises,
then the Finance Director shall, upon verification thereof, discontinue
services during the quarter(s) said premises remain vacant or unoccupied; it
being expressly provided, however, that if any premises was vacant and
unoccupied prior to submitting an application for suspension of service for
over one calendar quarter, then the Finance Director shall only suspend the
charges for the quarter prior to filing of the application. Upon said premises
becoming occupied, it shall be the duty of the owner, occupant, or authorized
agent thereof to notify the Finance Director in writing of such occupancy
within five days thereof and the owner shall be required to pay the set-up fee
prior to delivery of the City container, and shall be charged for service at
the beginning of the next month.
   (J)   Rates and bills - residential and non-commercial premises. The City
Council shall determine rates for solid waste collection service. Service for a
time period less than a month may be charged at the minimum monthly rate.
      (1)   Billing for solid waste collection services will be mailed
quarterly and are due and payable monthly and shall be deemed delinquent if not
paid by the last day of the month the services were provided. A delinquent
charge established by City Council may be assessed on any unpaid balance for
charges that are past due.
      (2)   Unpaid solid waste collection services charges shall accrue
interest at the rate of 5% per annum from the date on which they become due and
payable until the date on which they are paid in full.
      (3)   The City reserves the right to vary the dates or length of billing
periods temporarily or permanently, if necessary or desirable.
      (4)   In the event that said bill is not paid before said delinquent
date, then the City shall take whatever action is necessary on or after said
delinquent date to collect any unpaid fees, including prosecuting said claim in
a court of appropriate jurisdiction against those who are delinquent and using
all lawful ways and means for the collection of said claim. Any account
requiring special collection efforts may be assessed collection charges, as
established by the Finance Director, and subject to the approval of the City
Manager.
      (5)   The City may elect to assign unpaid charges, fees, or assessments
to a collection agency or attorney to collect. The City may recover all costs
of litigation and collection from the account holder, including reasonable
attorney’s fees.
      (6)   The Finance Director may also post at appropriate buildings and
publish in the newspaper or other media a list of property owners and/or
renters who have delinquent accounts with the City for solid waste collection
services.
      (7)   Solid waste collection services charges shall be considered
delinquent and subject to special collection efforts, up to and including the
discontinuance of any or all services and removal of the City container, for
any of the following reasons:
         (a)   Failure to pay for any services, fees, or assessments by the due
date;
         (b)   Nonpayment of a bill for services rendered to the account holder
at a previous location;
         (c)   Non-sufficient funds checks; and
         (d)   Stop payments imposed on checks after their tender to the City.
      (8)   Prior to terminating service for nonpayment of amounts due, the
City will send by regular mail, a 30-day written notice of the scheduled
discontinuance and the removal of the City container to the customer.
      (9)   Payment for any and all monies due the City, including deposit,
set-up fee, and non-payment City container re-establishment fee and/or
collection costs, will be expected prior to the reinstatement of services.
      (10)   When the City has been required to make special collection efforts
on an account three times in a 12-month period, the Finance Director or his or
her designee may require an additional deposit amount equal to three times the
average of their last three bill amounts.
      (11)   The termination of services and removal of the City container for
non-payment of amounts due the City pursuant to sections (H)(1)(h) and (J)(7)
above shall not suspend or terminate the customer’s payment responsibility for
monthly solid waste collection services after termination of the services.
   (K)   Disputed bill. Customer may present a claim to the City if he or she
believes that he or she may have received an incorrect bill. Such claim shall
be presented in person or in writing to the Finance Department before such bill
becomes delinquent, provided that the customer may make a claim following
payment of his or her bill and his or her payment shall not prejudice his or
her claim. Such claim shall not exempt the customer from delinquency penalties
if he or she fails to pay the undisputed portion on time.
   (L)   City containers. Customers are responsible for their City-assigned
container, to include lost or stolen containers and/or damage caused to the
container. Replacement of the City container will be at a cost to the customer,
which shall be set by resolution of the City Council.
   (M)   Commencement of charges. The City shall commence solid waste
collection service charges upon the first day that solid waste collection
services are available to the premises.
   (N)   Proper disposal. In addition to other federal, state, and local
statutes, rules, and regulations limiting the disposal of solid waste, no
person shall discard or otherwise dispose of any solid waste on or in a City
container that has not been assigned for use by that person, or on or in any
street, sidewalk, alley, right-of-way, or other City property except as
expressly authorized and approved by the Administrator.
   (O)   Violations; notice and opportunity to cure. For any violations of this
section, the City shall mail to the customer a written notice of the violation,
referencing the applicable code provision and requiring the customer to remedy
the violation within 30 days. The notice shall be mailed to the customer’s
billing address. At the expiration of 30-day period, if the customer has not
remedied the violation, the City shall have the option to remove the City
container, discontinue service, and seek all other relief against said
customer. Where the City container has been removed, the customer shall first
pay to the City a non-payment container re-establishment fee, in addition to
all other charges included herein, prior to the City providing a new garbage
container and reinstating service.
(Prior Code, § 21-1-3) (Ord. 15-18, passed 12-14-2015) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 50.004 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION FOR COMMERCIAL PREMISES.
   (A)   Commercial hauler permit required; exceptions. Except as provided in
this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person to collect, remove, or haul
any solid waste on or along any street within the City without first obtaining
a commercial hauler permit from the Administrator. The Administrator may issue
a commercial hauler permit to any applicant satisfying the requirements of this
section. A commercial hauler permit shall not be required for the following:
      (1)   Tenants and property owners hauling bulk trash generated on their
property to a City-designated drop off center;
      (2)   Secondary haulers;
      (3)   Charitable entities collecting reusable materials as approved by
the Administrator;
      (4)   Haulers who do not collect solid waste within the City and are
simply traversing the City with solid waste collected outside of the City; and
      (5)   Haulers with proper state or county permits that collect and
transport unacceptable waste that will not be collected by the City, its
agents, or City-permitted haulers.
   (B)   Hauler permit application. Applicants for a new commercial hauler
permit, or for an annual renewal thereof, shall file a City-provided
application form with the Administrator or designee that includes the following
information, documentation, and fees:
      (1)   The name, address, and local telephone number of the individual(s)
applying for the permit;
      (2)   The name, address, and local telephone number of the business
entity that will conduct commercial hauling activities;
      (3)   The name(s), business address, and telephone number of all owners,
partners, general managers, and principal officers of the business entity that
will conduct commercial hauling activities;
      (4)   Evidence that the applicant possesses the adequate equipment and
necessary qualifications to collect, transport, and dispose of solid waste in a
manner satisfactory to the Administrator and in conformity with this chapter
and all applicable federal, state, and county laws;
      (5)   Evidence that the applicant possesses the appropriate City business
license and has all required federal, state, and county vehicle permits for
each vehicle to be used pursuant to the permit;
      (6)   Other information that the Administrator or designee may reasonably
require to verify the applicant’s qualifications and the information submitted
in the application. Such information may include an audited financial statement
and other indicators of the financial stability of the applicant.
      (7)   The nonrefundable application or renewal fee set by City Council
and set forth in §§
50.085 and
50.086; and
      (8)   The annual permit fee set by City Council and set forth in §§
50.085 and
50.086. This fee shall not be refundable unless the applicant’s permit
application is denied by the Administrator.
   (C)   Permit duration. Permits shall expire on June 30 of each calendar
year, unless renewed prior to expiration. Commercial hauler permits are
nontransferable.
   (D)   Insurance requirements. Applicants shall be required to submit a
certificate evidencing coverage for public liability, property damage, business
automobile liability, and worker’s compensation/employer’s liability insurance
in amounts and under terms to be established by the City prior to issuance of a
commercial hauler permit. The coverage limits and terms imposed by the City on
applicants shall not exceed the standard coverage limits and terms adopted by
the City pursuant to administrative regulation. Such insurance policies shall
list the City as an additional named insured and shall require that the City be
given a minimum 30 days’ written notice prior to cancellation for any reason.
Any deductible or self-insured retention shall be the responsibility of the
permittee and any self-insurance amounts over $25,000 shall require the
approval of the City. The lapse of any of the above-stated insurance policies
shall be cause for revocation of the permit.
   (E)   Indemnification requirements. Permittee shall agree to indemnify,
defend, and save harmless the City from all losses, claims, suits, actions,
payments and judgments, demands, expenses, attorney’s fees, defense costs, or
actions of any kind and nature resulting from personal injury to any person,
including employees of the permittee or of any subcontractor employed the
permittee (including bodily injury and death), or damages to any property,
arising or alleged to have arisen out of permittee’s actions under the permit
issued. The amount and type of insurance coverage requirements set forth herein
will in no way be construed as limiting the scope of indemnity provided
pursuant to this section.
   (F)   Vehicle requirements. The Administrator or designee may inspect the
vehicles to be utilized by a permit applicant prior to the issuance of a
permit, renewal of a permit, and at any time during the term of the permit. All
vehicles must meet the following requirements throughout the term of the
permit:
      (1)   Vehicles must be maintained in good condition and repair. That
portion of the vehicle into which solid waste is deposited shall be water tight
up through 18 inches above the bed floor, shall have water tight rear door seal
(s), if applicable, and be free of any openings that would permit solid waste
to leak from the vehicle;
      (2)   Vehicles shall be maintained in a clean and neat manner and
operated in a manner necessary to reasonably prevent solid waste from spilling,
leaking, and blowing from the vehicle;
      (3)   All open-top vehicles must be covered or tarped when in transit to
prevent its contents from spilling or blowing from the commercial container
onto the roadway. Tarps must be affixed to each vehicle at all times;
      (4)   All vehicles shall be equipped with an operable backup audible
safety alarm meeting industry standards;
      (5)   Vehicles shall be maintained and operated in such a manner to
ensure that noise levels do not exceed 75 decibels at a distance of 25 feet;
and
      (6)   The outside of each vehicle must be clearly identified with the
name and phone number of the permittee. All letters shall be no less than three
inches in height and shall be displayed on both sides and the rear of the
vehicle.
   (G)   Commercial container requirements.
      (1)   Permittee shall have joint responsibility with the business
establishment for whom it will provide solid waste collection services to keep
and maintain sufficient collection containers, as may be reasonably determined
by the Administrator, to accommodate the disposal needs of the business
establishment.
      (2)   Permittee shall have joint responsibility with the business
establishment for whom it will provide solid waste collection services to keep
and maintain the containers utilized for the collection of solid waste in a
sanitary condition and in good repair.
      (3)   Permittee shall service only those collection containers consistent
with the commercial hauler permit issued under this chapter. The collection
containers shall be located so as not to interfere with vehicular or pedestrian
traffic.
      (4)   The outside of each collection container must be clearly identified
with the name and phone number of the permittee.
   (H)   Conditions of commercial hauler permit. The following conditions shall
apply to permittees throughout the term of the commercial hauler permit:
      (1)   Permittees shall comply with all provisions of the permit, this
code, and applicable federal, state, and county laws relating to transporting
solid waste;
      (2)   Permittees shall not collect solid waste from any location within
300 feet of the property line of any residential property between the hours of
7:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.;
      (3)   Permittees shall provide the Administrator or a designee with
written notice of intent to provide solid waste collection services to each new
business establishments prior to commencing that service. The notice shall
include the name and address of the business establishment, the ownership of
the business establishment, the number, type, and size of collection containers
that will be collected, and the days of collection. A complete list of all
business establishments serviced by permittee shall be provided to the City
with any request for annual renewal of the commercial hauler permit. Permittee
shall also promptly notify the City if permittee’s business is sold,
transferred, or assigned or if permittee discontinues the collection and
hauling of solid waste within the City;
      (4)   Along with a commercial hauler permit renewal application,
permittees shall complete and provide an annual solid waste and recycling
tonnage report on a City-provided form for all waste that it collected within
the City or diverted from the City for recycling during the previous year;
      (5)   All contracts for the collection and hauling of solid waste within
the City shall contain a clause allowing the contract to be cancelled by the
customer in the event the contractor’s commercial hauler permit is suspended or
revoked by the City; and
      (6)   Permittees shall immediately pick up all material that drops,
spills, leaks, or is blown from a collection container or vehicle, and shall
repair damage to, and clean the place onto which any material was so dropped,
spilled, blown, or leaked to the reasonable satisfaction of the Administrator.
   (I)   Suspension or revocation of permit; right to appeal.
      (1)   The City may suspend or revoke a commercial hauler permit for any
violation of said permit or this chapter, or for failing to pay all fees when
due.
      (2)   Notice of proposed suspension or revocation shall be delivered
personally or by registered mail to the address on file for the permittee. The
suspension or revocation shall become effective ten business days after the
delivery date, unless the permittee files an appeal in accordance with in this
section.
      (3)   The appeal must be in writing and received by the City Manager
within five business days of the City’s suspension or revocation notice.
      (4)   Failure to file a timely appeal as required by this section shall
waive the right to appeal or contest a suspension or revocation.
      (5)   If a commercial hauler permit is suspended pursuant to this
section, the commercial hauler permit may be reinstated only upon payment of
twice the amount of the established permit fee.
      (6)   Failure to file a written appeal to the City Manager within the
time specified in section (I)(3) above shall waive the right to appeal and
render the City’s decision final.
(Prior Code, § 21-1-4) (Ord. 15-18, passed 12-14-2015) Penalty, see §
150.999
PREPARATION OF SOLID WASTE FOR COLLECTION
§ 50.015 PREPARATION OF SOLID WASTE.
   The following shall be prepared for collection or disposal as follows.
   (A)   Bulk trash.
      (1)   Brush. Brush shall be cut into such a size that one person can
readily load the individual pieces into a truck or chipper and shall be piled
in neat order with all long branches parallel to one another and all individual
pieces shall be no greater in length than six feet. Brush shall not be placed
over or nearer than six feet to any gas or water meter or cause any other
obstruction. All foreign materials, such as metal, construction material, and
rubber tires, shall not be placed within or upon such brush. Bulk trash shall
not exceed more than six cubic yards per set out each month.
      (2)   Small appliances and furniture. Appliances and furniture shall be
no larger than that which two persons can readily lift into a truck. Customers
shall be responsible for the removal of all other appliances, furniture, and
equipment from their premises or the public right-of-way. Customers must remove
the locking mechanism from the doors of freezers and refrigerators before
setting them out for collection. Customers shall arrange for special collection
of appliances, air conditioners, and other items using freon gases or liquids
by the City through a special collection.
      (3)   Leaves and loose debris. Leaves, grass clippings, and other loose
debris shall be placed in tightly closed bags or similar type containers before
being placed for collection. Bagged leaves and loose debris may be placed in a
garbage container or set out as bulk trash.
   (B)   Building materials. All owners, contractors, and builders of
structures shall, upon the completion of any structure, gather up and haul
away, at their sole cost and expense, all refuse of every nature, description,
or kind, which has resulted from the building of such structure, including all
lumber scraps, shingles, plaster, brick, stone, concrete, and other building
materials, and shall place the lot and all nearby premises utilized in such
construction in a sightly condition. Residential consumers may dispose of small
amounts of building materials from time to time, providing that it is placed in
a container as described above and contains no concrete, masonry, or soil.
   (C)   By-products. Any commercial or manufacturing by-product solid waste
shall be disposed of by the owner as directed by the City.
   (D)   Vehicular products, oil, and tires. Customers must arrange for the
collection and disposal of vehicles, large auto parts, tires and rims, and used
oil or other vehicular liquids, as such items will not be collected or disposed
of by the City.
   (E)   Dangerous and hazardous waste. No person shall deposit or cause to be
deposited in any garbage or recycling container serviced by the City, any
dangerous or hazardous waste to the City’s collection equipment or a threat to
the health, safety, and welfare of the City’s employees or the City’s approved
collection company’s employees or the general public. Dangerous and hazardous
waste shall be placed in a proper container marked in plain view with the
language “DANGER - HAZARDOUS”. The City reserves the right to deny collection
service for solid waste determined by the City to be dangerous or hazardous
waste and customer shall be required to properly dispose of the dangerous or
hazardous waste by other legally proper means.
   (F)   Soil and concrete. Waste soil, concrete, masonry blocks, sod, and
rocks shall be disposed of by the owner, tenant, or occupant of the premises,
at their sole cost and expense. The City will not collect or dispose of soil
and concrete.
(Prior Code, § 21-2-1) (Ord. 15-18, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 50.016 COLLECTION SCHEDULE AND HOURS.
   The schedule and hours of solid waste collection services shall be
designated by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 21-2-2) (Ord. 15-18, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 50.017 LOCATION FOR PICK-UP.
   (A)   All containers assigned to residential and non-commercial premises
shall be placed at the curb or street edge in front of the premises.
      (1)   Containers and bulk trash shall not be placed on the sidewalks. The
location of containers used by commercial premises shall be as determined by
the City. No containers shall block in any manner an alley, street, sidewalk,
or access to private property or otherwise be a hazard to pedestrian or
vehicular traffic.
      (2)   Brush and tree trimmings may be placed at the curbside provided the
piles of brush or tree trimmings do not interfere with traffic on the street.
   (B)   All garbage and refuse shall be bagged, prepared for collection, and
placed in the containers provided by the City or by a permittee. Bulk trash may
be placed on the ground near these containers but shall not be placed closer
than five feet from the container, and provided it does not interfere with
emptying the containers and is not placed near gas and water meters or
otherwise cause an obstruction.
   (C)   No residential or non-commercial garbage, refuse, or bulk trash shall
be placed in the alleys. Commercial premises may use alleys for the placement
of the commercial collection at the approval of the Public Works Director.
(Prior Code, § 21-2-3) (Ord. 15-18, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 50.018 COVERS.
   The covers of all containers shall at all times be kept down and secure so
that flies and other insects may not have access to the contents, and shall
only be opened while the containers are being filled, emptied, or cleaned.
(Prior Code, § 21-2-4) (Ord. 15-18, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 50.019 USE OF CONTAINERS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to deposit, or to cause to be deposited,
any solid waste in any container furnished by the City or its approved
collection company that is not furnished specifically for the premises owned or
occupied by said person.
   (B)   It is further unlawful for any person to remove solid waste from any
container furnished by the City or its approved collection company, except the
person owning or occupying the premises for which the container was furnished.
(Prior Code, § 21-2-5) (Ord. 15-18, passed 12-14-2015) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.020 TIME OF PLACEMENT.
   (A)   City containers and bulk trash shall not be set out or placed for
collection earlier than 6:00 p.m. the night before the scheduled collection.
   (B)   Containers shall be removed from the curb or street edge by 7:00 p.m.
the evening of collection.
(Prior Code, § 21-2-6) (Ord. 15-18, passed 12-14-2015)
OTHER METHODS OF SOLID WASTE REMOVAL
§ 50.035 HAULING SOLID WASTE.
   It is unlawful for any person to haul or cause to be hauled any solid waste
on or along any public street, avenue, or alley in the City, in violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-1) (Ord. 15-18, passed 12-14-2015) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.036 VEHICLES AND RECEPTACLES TO BE SPILL-PROOF.
   It is unlawful for any person to haul or cause to be hauled on or along any
public street in the City any solid waste, unless such solid waste is contained
in strong water-tight vehicles or vehicles with water-tight receptacles,
constructed to prevent any such solid waste from falling, leaking, or spilling
and any odor from escaping.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-2) (Ord. 15-18, passed 12-14-2015) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.037 SPILLED SOLID WASTE.
   Any person hauling any solid waste along the streets of the City shall
immediately recover and place in the vehicle or receptacle used for such
hauling any solid waste which may fall upon any street.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-3) (Ord. 15-18, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 50.038 DUMPING SOLID WASTE.
   It is unlawful for any person to place or cause to be placed any solid waste
upon any public or private property within the City, except as specifically
permitted in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-4) (Ord. 15-18, passed 12-14-2015) Penalty, see §
50.999
SANITARY LANDFILL
§ 50.050 DUMPING.
   No person shall be permitted to dump solid waste in the City’s public
sanitary landfill without first obtaining approval by the Public Works Director
and paying the required dumping fee.
(Prior Code, § 21-4-1) (Ord. 15-18, passed 12-14-2015) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.051 FEES.
   Fees for dumping any solid waste in the City sanitary landfill may be
established from time to time by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 21-4-2) (Ord. 15-18, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 50.052 MANNER OF DUMPING.
   All persons dumping any solid waste at the City’s public sanitary landfill
shall do so in the place and manner as shall be directed by the City attendant
on duty.
(Prior Code, § 21-4-3) (Ord. 15-18, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 50.053 PROHIBITED DUMPING.
   It is unlawful to dump or deposit the following items at the City’s public
sanitary landfill:
   (A)   Carcass of livestock, such as cattle, horses, sheep, goats, or swine;
   (B)   Cesspool, septic tank, and grease trap drainings;
   (C)   Explosive or corrosive liquid or substances; and
   (D)   Used or wrecked automobiles or the bodies thereof.
(Prior Code, § 21-4-4) (Ord. 15-18, passed 12-14-2015) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.054 DUMPING AGREEMENTS.
   The City Manager is authorized, with the approval of the City Council, to
negotiate and enter into dumping agreements on behalf of the City with other
governmental agencies, business firms, and individuals providing for the
dumping of solid waste at the City’s public sanitary landfill in accordance
with the provisions of this subchapter and upon the payment to the City of a
monthly or annual fee.
(Prior Code, § 21-4-5) (Ord. 15-18, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 50.055 SOLID WASTE BECOMES CITY PROPERTY.
   Solid waste deposited for disposal at the City’s public sanitary landfill
shall become the property of the City and removal of any solid waste so
deposited is unlawful unless authorized by the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 21-4-6) (Ord. 15-18, passed 12-14-2015) Penalty, see §
50.999
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 50.070 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Public Works Director is assigned the primary responsibility of
administering and enforcing this chapter and is granted the authority expressly
and impliedly needed and necessary for enforcement. The Public Works Director
may designate any agents to exercise any administrative and enforcement powers
as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall preclude City employees from seeking
voluntary compliance with the provisions of this chapter through notices to
comply, warnings, or other informal devices designed to achieve compliance in
the most efficient and effective manner under the circumstances.
   (C)   The authority of the City to enforce provisions of this chapter is
independent of, and in addition to the authority of other City officials to
enforce the provisions of any other ordinances of the City.
(Prior Code, § 21-5-1) (Ord. 15-18, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 50.071 CITY RIGHT TO INSPECT; NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Representatives of the City may conduct inspections of storage,
collection, hauling, and disposal activities to ensure compliance with, and
knowledge of, the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   If a violation under this chapter occurs, the Public Works Director or
designee thereof shall have the authority to issue a notice of inspection
(“NOI”). The NOI may be issued in any of the following ways:
      (1)   Hand-delivered to any person at the address where the violation
propagated or by personal service upon the owner, resident, occupant, tenant,
or other responsible person;
      (2)   Posted in a conspicuous location upon the premises where the
violation propagated or property adjacent to or abutting the location of the
violation; or
      (3)   Mailed to the address where the violation propagated via certified
mail with return receipt requested.
   (C)   The NOI shall contain the date and location of the violation, refer to
the code provision or ordinance violated, and require that the violation must
be remedied within a specified time. The NOI shall contain a statement that
noncompliance will result in further code enforcement actions.
(Prior Code, § 21-5-2) (Ord. 15-18, passed 12-14-2015)
SOLID WASTE FEE SCHEDULE
§ 50.085 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION BY CITY; FEES AND CHARGES.
Service Frequency Charges
Service                        Frequency           Charges
96-gallon individual container Twice a week pickup $26/month
300-gallon individual          Twice a week pickup $104/month
container
300-gallon individual          Once a week pickup  $26/month
container
Delinquent charges                                 1.5%/month
Setup fee                                          $25
Non-payment container re-                          $30
establishment fee
Deposit                                            $115
96-gallon extra or container                       $50/container
replacement
300-gallon extra or container                      $300/container
replacement
Bulk trash special non-                            Minimum $200, plus tipping
compliant pickup                                   fees beyond one ton.
 
(Prior Code, § 21 Exhibit A) (Ord. 15-18, passed 12-14-2015; Res. 16-01, passed
1-25-2016)
§ 50.086 COMMERCIAL HAULERS; FEES AND CHARGES.
 
Application fee     $300
Permit fee:         $500
1 – 5 accounts    $1,000
6 – 10 accounts   $1,500
11 or more accounts
Annual renewal fee: $500
1 – 5 accounts    $1,000
6 – 10 accounts   $1,500
11 or more accounts
 
(Prior Code, § 21 Exhibit A) (Ord. 15-18, passed 12-14-2015; Res. 16-01, passed
1-25-2016)
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   It is unlawful to violate any provision of this chapter. The failure to
comply with any requirement of this chapter constitutes a violation of this
chapter. Each instance of a violation of this chapter may be considered a
separate offense and enforced and prosecuted accordingly. The Public Works
Director may seek remedies including injunctive relief, in addition to civil
and criminal penalties, as set forth in this code. Remedies available pursuant
to this chapter are cumulative and not exclusive, and do not limit or supersede
any and all other lawful remedies.
(Prior Code, § 21-5-1) (Ord. 15-18, passed 12-14-2015)
CHAPTER 51: SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Adoption of Sewer Code
   
51.002   Management of the system
   
51.003   Application for service
   
51.004   Grounds for rejection of application
   
51.005   Violation of application provisions
   
51.006   Deposit required
   
51.007   Payment responsibility
   
51.008   Lien enforcement for unpaid user fees
   
51.009   Discontinuance of service; notice required
   
51.010   Discontinuance under certain conditions
Rates and Bills
   
51.025   Sewer rates
   
51.026   Sewer bill
   
51.027   Disputed bill
   
51.028   Commencement of charges
Wastewater Pretreatment
   
51.040   Purpose and policy
   
51.041   Definitions
   
51.042   Regulated wastes
   
51.043   Prohibition of bypass
   
51.044   Slug loading
   
51.045   Accidental discharges
   
51.046   Categorical pretreatment standards
   
51.047   Modification of categorical pretreatment standards
   
51.048   Specific pollutant limitations
   
51.049   State requirements and limitations
   
51.050   Fees
Discharge Permit Application and Requirements
   
51.065   Wastewater discharger
   
51.066   Wastewater discharge permits
   
51.067   Deadline for compliance with categorical standards
   
51.068   Combined waste streams
   
51.069   Monitoring facilities
   
51.070   Pretreatment
   
51.071   Confidential information
   
51.072   Response to permit application and questionnaire forms
   
51.073   Separation of wastes
   
51.074   Grease interceptors and gravity separating devices
   
51.075   Wastewater flow measurement equipment
   
51.076   Combustible gas detection meter systems
   
51.077   Waste minimization program
   
51.078   Duty to comply
   
51.079   Duty to mitigate
   
51.080   Proper operation and maintenance
   
51.081   Permit actions
   
51.082   Duty to provide information
   
51.083   Civil and criminal liability
Monitoring, Reporting, Notification, and Inspection Requirements
   
51.095   Reporting requirements for permittee
   
51.096   Inspection
   
51.097   Monitoring, sampling, and records
   
51.098   Reporting requirements
   
51.099   Signatory requirement
   
51.100   Notification of bypass
   
51.101   Notification of spill or slug loading
   
51.102   Notification of hazardous waste discharge
   
51.103   Notification of changed discharge
   
51.104   Other noncompliance notification
Enforcement
   
51.115   General provisions
   
51.116   Notification of violation
   
51.117   Notification of permit suspension
   
51.118   Revocation of permit
   
51.119   Show cause hearing
   
51.120   Emergency suspensions
   
51.121   Legal action
 
   
51.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 ADOPTION OF SEWER CODE.
   The certain document entitled “Sanitary Sewer Code, City of Coolidge” passed
and adopted by Ordinance No. 148 is hereby adopted as the City’s Sanitary Sewer
Code and made a part of this chapter the same as though said code was
specifically set forth in full herein; and at least three copies of said code
shall be filed in the office of the Clerk and kept available for public use and
inspection.
(Prior Code, § 12-1)
§ 51.002 MANAGEMENT OF THE SYSTEM.
   (A)   The City Council shall have the immediate control and management of
all things pertaining to the City sewer system and shall cause to be performed
all acts that may be necessary for the prudent, efficient, and economical
management and protection of said sewer system. The City Council shall have the
power to prescribe such other and further rates, rules, and regulations as it
may deem necessary.
   (B)   The owner shall be responsible for cleaning, unstopping, maintenance,
and repair of the private sewer lines from the owner’s residence or building to
a public sewer line, including the sewer tap and any and all sewer cleanouts
located on the property.
(Prior Code, § 12-2) (Ord. 11-12, passed 7-11-2011; Ord. 21-21, passed 11-8-
2021)
§ 51.003 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   In advance of receiving any sewer service provided by the City, a formal
application shall be submitted by the property owner, his or her agent, or the
occupant of the property to the Finance Department. Proof of purchase date or a
copy of the lease agreement is required. As a term and condition of providing
service, the City may require that outstanding amounts owed by the applicant at
a previous location be paid.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-1) (Ord. 11-12, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 51.004 GROUNDS FOR REJECTION OF APPLICATION.
   The City may reject any application for sewer service for any good and
sufficient reason, including the following: service not available under a
standard rate; service which involves excessive service expense; service which
may affect the service or supply to other customers; the applicant is
delinquent in payment of any monies due to the City; and any other reasons that
in the judgment of the Finance Director or its designee makes it impractical
for the City to provide sewer services.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-2) (Ord. 11-12, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 51.005 VIOLATION OF APPLICATION PROVISIONS.
   For violation of any of the provisions related to application for sewer
service, the City shall, at the expiration of 15 days after mailing a written
notice to the last known address of the customer and providing an opportunity
for a hearing, at its option, cap the sewer valve and discontinue service.
Where the valve has been capped, the customer shall first pay to the City a
reconnection charge which shall be set by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-3) (Ord. 11-12, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 51.006 DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   The City may require deposits of any customer for any service provided
by the City or its designee before such service is provided. The total amount
of the deposit shall be determined by taking into consideration the anticipated
amounts which will be billed for services provided, the past payment record, if
any, of the customer, and any other information the City may deem necessary in
order to provide an adequate deposit. The deposit will not be less than the
amount established by resolution.
   (B)   Deposits shall be non-interest bearing and shall be refunded to the
customer upon discontinuance of service and payment of charges, provided that
charges may be deducted from said security deposit before the refund is made.
In addition, customers may request that their deposits be refunded when their
sewer bill has been paid in full by the due date for four consecutive billing
periods. Refunds will be applied to the account on the next billing.
(Prior Code, § 12-4-1) (Ord. 11-12, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 51.007 PAYMENT RESPONSIBILITY.
   The individual who has contracted for the service and resides or has resided
at the service address shall be responsible for payment of all bills incurred
in connection with the sewer service provided. A property owner, an immediate
family member of the person who does not reside at the property, or any other
entity, at its sole discretion, may contract for sewer service with the City
for such services and shall provide payment to the City for such services.
(Prior Code, § 12-4-2) (Ord. 11-12, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 51.008 LIEN ENFORCEMENT FOR UNPAID USER FEES.
   (A)   The Finance Director may file a lien on property for the nonpayment of
sewer user fees for services provided to the property if the payment of the
fees is delinquent for more than 90 days.
   (B)   Before filing the lien, the Finance Director shall provide written
notice to the owner of the property. The notice shall be given at least 30 days
before filing the lien and shall include an opportunity for a hearing with an
official to be designated by the City Council for such purposes. The notice
shall be either served personally on or mailed to the property owner, at the
last known address by certified mail, or to the address to which the tax bill
for the property was last mailed. If the owner does not reside on the property,
the notice shall be sent to the last known address of the owner. If served by
mail, notice shall be deemed to be complete on the date on which the notice is
deposited in the United States mail.
   (C)   The unpaid sewer user fees are a lien on the property from the date of
recording of the lien in the office of the County Recorder until the fees are
paid. The lien is subject and inferior to the lien for general taxes and to all
prior recorded mortgages and encumbrances of record. A sale of the property to
satisfy a lien obtained under this section shall be made following a judgment
of foreclosure and order of sale. The City may bring an action to enforce the
lien in the County Superior Court at any time after the recording of the lien,
but failure to enforce the lien by a foreclosure lawsuit shall not affect the
validity of the lien. The recorded unpaid sewer user fees lien shall be prima
facie evidence of the truth of all matters recited in the recording and of the
regularity of all proceedings before the recording.
   (D)   Unpaid sewer user fees shall accrue interest at the rate prescribed by
A.R.S. § 44-1201 from the date on which they became due and payable until the
date on which they are paid in full.
   (E)   A prior assessment of unpaid sewer user fees does not bar a subsequent
assessment for these purposes and any number of liens on the same lot or tract
of land may be enforced in the same lawsuit.
(Prior Code, § 12-5) (Ord. 11-12, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 51.009 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; NOTICE REQUIRED.
   Any person who desires to discontinue sewer services shall make a formal
request to the Finance Department at least three business days in advance of
the requested termination of service. Until a request to discontinue service is
received, such premises shall be deemed occupied by such customer and the
customer’s liability for services provided to the property will continue.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-1) (Ord. 11-12, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 51.010 DISCONTINUANCE UNDER CERTAIN CONDITIONS.
   The City may discontinue sewer service under any of the following
conditions:
   (A)   To prevent fraud or abuse;
   (B)   Disregard of the City rules pertaining to sewer service;
   (C)   Emergency repairs;
   (D)   Insufficient supply caused by factors outside the control of the City;
   (E)   Legal process;
   (F)   Direction of public authorities;
   (G)   Local emergency requiring emergency measures; and
   (H)   Non-payment of any monies due to the City for any services, fines, or
assessments billed to the customer.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-2) (Ord. 11-12, passed 7-11-2011)
RATES AND BILLS
§ 51.025 SEWER RATES.
   There shall be levied and assessed upon the owner or the occupant of the
property who has contracted for sewer service with the City a sewer user
charge. The City Council shall, by resolution, determine rates for sewer
service. Service for a time period less than a month may be charged at the
minimum monthly rate.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-1) (Ord. 11-12, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 51.026 SEWER BILL.
   (A)   (1)   Charges for sewer services will be billed quarterly and are due
and payable when rendered and shall be deemed delinquent 30 days after the
statement is rendered. A late charge established by the Finance Director
subject to the approval of the City Manager may be assessed on any unpaid
balance for charges that are past due at the time of billing.
      (2)   It is the responsibility of the person or persons in whose name or
names an account has been established to pay all charges in full and on a
timely basis. Failure to receive a sewer bill will not excuse the account
holder or holders from full and timely payment for the services.
      (3)   The City reserves the right to vary the dates or length of billing
periods temporarily or permanently, if necessary or desirable.
   (B)   (1)   In the event that said bill is not paid before said delinquent
date, the City shall take whatever action is necessary on or after said
delinquent date to collect any unpaid fees, including prosecuting said claim in
a court of appropriate jurisdiction against those who are delinquent and using
all lawful ways and means for the collection of said claim. Any account
requiring special collection efforts may be assessed collection charges, as
established by the Finance Director and subject to the approval of the City
Manager.
      (2)   The City may elect to assign unpaid charges, fees, or assessments
to a collection agency or attorney to collect. The City may recover all costs
of litigation and collection from the account holder, including reasonable
attorney’s fees.
      (3)   The Finance Director may also post at appropriate buildings and
publish in the newspaper or other media a list of property owners and/or
renters who have delinquent accounts with the City for sewer service.
      (4)   Sewer user charges shall be considered delinquent and subject to
special collection efforts, up to and including the disconnect of any or all
services, for any of the following reasons:
         (a)   Failure to pay for any services, fees, or assessments by the due
date;
         (b)   Nonpayment of a bill for services rendered to the account holder
at a previous location;
         (c)   Non-sufficient funds checks; or
         (d)   Stop payments imposed on checks after their tender to the City.
      (5)   Prior to terminating service for nonpayment of amounts due, the
City will send by ordinary mail, written notice of the scheduled disconnect
date to the account holder.
      (6)   Payment for any and all monies due the City, including any
reinstatement costs or fees, will be expected prior to the reinstatement of
services.
      (7)   When the City has been required to make special collection efforts
on an account three times in a 12-month period, the Finance Director or his or
her designee may require an additional deposit amount equal to three times the
average of their last three bill amounts.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-2) (Ord. 11-12, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 51.027 DISPUTED BILL.
   (A)   Any customer may present a claim to the City if he or she believes
that he or she may have received an incorrect bill. Such claim shall be
presented in person or in writing to the Finance Department before such bill
becomes delinquent, provided that the customer may make a claim following
payment of his or her bill and his or her payment shall not prejudice his or
her claim. Such claim shall not exempt the customer from delinquency penalties
if he or she fails to pay the undisputed portion on time.
   (B)   Users are responsible for all leaks or damages caused by leaks
occurring on the user’s side of the connection valve.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-3) (Ord. 11-12, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 51.028 COMMENCEMENT OF CHARGES.
   The City shall commence sewer user charges for a customer upon the first day
that sewer service is available to the property.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-4) (Ord. 11-12, passed 7-11-2011)
WASTEWATER PRETREATMENT
§ 51.040 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
industrial dischargers into the wastewater collection and treatment system for
the City and enables the City to comply with a POTW Pretreatment Program
mandated by A.R.S. § 49-255.02, the aquifer protection permit issued by ADEQ
(Arizona Department of Environmental Quality) for the City POTW, and all
applicable state and federal laws required by the Clean Water Act of 1977 as
amended by the Water Quality Act of 1987, and the general pretreatment
regulations (40 C.F.R. Part 403).
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the City wastewater
system which will interfere with the operation of the system or contaminate the
resulting sludge;
      (2)   To protect the City’s sewerage system, groundwater resources,
effluent receiving waterways, and to prevent the introduction of pollutants
into the City wastewater system which will pass through the system,
inadequately treated, into receiving waters, groundwater resources, or the
atmosphere;
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewater and
sludge from the system;
      (4)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of the City
wastewater system; and
      (5)   To protect both the publicly owned treatment works personnel who
may be affected by wastewater and sludge in the course of their employment and
the general public.
   (C)   This subchapter incorporates by this reference the Technical Based
Local Limits Reports: “Defining and Justifying Local Discharge Limits Under
EPA’s Pretreatment Program, Volume One and Two”.
   (D)   This chapter provides for the regulation of discharges to the City
wastewater system through the issuance of permits to certain non-domestic users
and through enforcement of general requirements for the other users, authorizes
monitoring and enforcement activities, requires user reporting, assumes that
existing customer’s capacity will not be preempted, and provides for the
setting of fees for the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the
program as established herein.
   (E)   This chapter shall apply to the City and to persons outside the City
who are, by contract or agreement with the City, users of the City POTW. Except
as otherwise provided herein, the Public Works Director, as the control
authority, shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-1) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.041 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act (CWA), as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Administrator of the EPA, Region IX, or the Director
of the state’s Department of Environmental Quality, as appropriate.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER. An authorized officer of at least the
level of vice-president, if the user is a corporation; a general partner or
proprietor if the user is a partnership or proprietorship, respectively; or a
duly authorized representative of the individual designated above if such
representative is responsible for the overall operation of the facilities from
which the indirect discharge originates.
   BASELINE MONITORING REPORT (BMR). Facility and wastewater discharge
information provided by the categorical industrial user.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
(five days at 20°C), expressed in terms of weight and concentration (milligrams
per liter (mg/L)).
   BLOWDOWN. The minimum discharge of re-circulating water for the purpose of
discharging materials contained in the water, the further buildup of which
would cause concentration amounts exceeding established limits.
   BUILDING SEWER. A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a user to
the POTW.
   BYPASS. The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of a
treatment facility.
   CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER. All users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in accordance with §
307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) which apply to a specific category
of users and which appear in 40 C.F.R. Chapter I, Subchapter N.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). The measure of chemically decomposable
material in domestic or industrial wastewaters as represented by the oxygen
utilized as determined by the appropriate procedure described in Standard
Methods.
   CITY. The City of Coolidge.
   CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS (C.F.R.). The Code of Federal Regulations is a
codification of the general and permanent rules published in the Federal
Register by the executive departments and agencies of the federal government.
The C.F.R. is divided into 50 titles which represent broad areas subject to
federal regulation. The C.F.R. is kept up to date by the individual issues of
the Federal Register. These two publications must be used together to determine
the latest version of any given rule.
   COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE. Increments of progress in the form of dates for the
commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction and
operation of pretreatment facilities.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE. A combination of no fewer than 12 individual samples
obtained at equal time intervals over a 24-hour period, and where appropriate,
composited according to wastewater flow rates during the 24 hours. Dischargers
required to have wastewater flow monitoring systems shall use such systems to
obtain accurate flow-proportioned COMPOSITE SAMPLES.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The Public Works Director of the City of Coolidge, who is
the person designated by the City to supervise the operation of the publicly
owned treatment works and who is charged with certain duties and
responsibilities under this chapter.
   COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   DIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater directly
to the waters of the state.
   DISCHARGE or DISCHARGES. The intentional or unintentional release of a
substance into the POTW.
   DISCHARGE LIMIT. A limit on the amount and/or concentration of a pollutant
which is discharged to the POTW. This LIMIT is specific for a controlled
pollutant. The LIMIT may be expressed as milligrams per liter (mg/L) or similar
appropriate units, or as a mass or specific amount per unit of time, or as mass
per unit volume or mass of material processed.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA). The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency or, where appropriate, the term may also be used as a designation for
the Regional Water Management Director or other duly authorized official of
said agency.
   EXISTING SOURCE. Any source which is not a new source or a new indirect
discharge.
   FEDERAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD or PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD.
Any regulation developed under the authority of 307(b) of the Act and 40 C.F.R.
Part 403.5.
   FOOD SERVICE FACILITY. Any facility involved with the preparation and/or
sale of food. This includes, but is not limited to, restaurants, bakeries,
grocery stores, and cafeterias.
   GRAB SAMPLE. Any individual sample collected in less than 15 minutes on a
one-time basis.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE. As listed in 40 C.F.R. Part 300.6 (1988), HAZARDOUS
SUBSTANCE, as defined by § 101(14) of CERCLA, means: any substance designated
pursuant to § 311(b)(2)(A) of the CWA; any element, compound, mixture,
solution, or substance designated pursuant to § 102 of CERCLA; any hazardous
waste having the characteristics identified under or listed pursuant to § 3001
of the Solid Waste Disposal Act (but not including any waste the regulation of
which under the Solid Waste Disposal Act has been suspended by an Act of
Congress); any toxic pollutant listed under § 307(a) of the Clean Water Act
(CWA); any hazardous air pollutant listed under § 112 of the Clean Air Act; and
any imminently hazardous chemical substance or mixture with respect to which
the Administrator has taken action pursuant to § 7 of the Toxic Substances
Control Act. The term does not include petroleum, including crude oil or any
fraction thereof, which is not otherwise specifically listed or designated as a
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE in the first sentence of this paragraph, and the term does
not include natural gas, natural gas liquids, liquefied natural gas, or
synthetic gas usable for fuel (or mixtures of natural gas and such synthetic
gas).
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. As defined in 40 C.F.R. Part 261.3.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks, and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE. Any introduction into the POTW of a non-domestic
pollutant which is produced by a source which would be subject to any
categorical standards or pretreatment requirements if such source were to be
discharged to the POTW; and contains any substance or pollutant for which a
discharge limitation or prohibition has been established by an categorical
standard or pretreatment requirement.
   INDUSTRIAL USER/INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGER. A source of indirect discharge of
regulated wastes which does not necessarily constitute a “discharge of
pollutants” under regulations issued pursuant to Article 402 of the Act (33
U.S.C. § 1342).
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any liquid, free-flowing waste, including cooling water,
resulting from any industrial or manufacturing process or from the development,
recovery, or processing of natural resources, with or without suspended solids
excluding uncontaminated water.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT or PERMIT. A permit issued by the
control authority to an industrial user granting the right to discharge to the
POTW industrial wastewater containing regulated wastes controlled by this
chapter and subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the permit.
   INTERFERENCE. Discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, both: inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its
treatment processes or operations, or its sludge processes, use, or disposal;
and therefore is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the POTW’s NPDES,
aquifer protection permit, or other permit (including an increase in the
magnitude or duration of a violation) or of the prevention of sewage sludge use
or disposal in compliance with the following statutory provisions and
regulations or permits issued thereunder (or more stringent state or local
regulations): § 405 of the Clean Water Act, the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA)
(including Title H, more commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act (RCRA), and including state regulations contained in any state
sludge management plan prepared pursuant to subtitle D of the SWDA), the Clean
Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, and the Marine Protection Research
and Sanctuaries Act.
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infections agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
   NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. A permit
issued pursuant to Article 402 of the Act.
   NATIONAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any regulation containing pollutant
discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of
the Act, which applies to industrial users. This term includes prohibitive
discharge limits established pursuant to Part 403.5.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there
is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under § 307(c) of the
Act which will be applicable to such source if such standards are thereafter
promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility, or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other source is located;
         (b)   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a NEW SOURCE if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the
criteria of section (1)(a), or (1)(b) above but otherwise alters, replaces, or
adds to existing process or production equipment.
      (3)   Construction of a NEW SOURCE, as defined under this paragraph, has
commenced if the owner or operator has either:
         (a)   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous onsite
construction program:
            1.   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            2.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which
is necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source
facilities or equipment.
         (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering, and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation
under this paragraph.
   NON-CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USERS. Users that have industrial discharges from
processes or industries that are not listed in 40 C.F.R. Chapter I, Subchapter
N, Parts 405-471.
   ODOR. A smell, vapor, or air pollution that affects the air quality of a
residential, commercial, or industrial sector of the City. The pollutant
quality of the ODOR will be determined by 51% of the affected population of the
sector involved.
   OPERATOR. A person who operates a business.
   OWNER. The property owner.
   PASS-THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the POTW’s NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude
or duration of a violation.
   PERMIT. A wastewater discharge permit.
   PERMITTEE. A user who has been issued a wastewater discharge permit.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents, or
assigns.
   pH. The negative logarithm (base 10) of the hydrogen ion concentration
expressed in moles per liter of solution. The measure of the acidity or
alkalinity of a solution, expressed in standard units.
   POLLUTANT. Something that causes pollution, including, but not limited to,
any dredged point, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage
sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand,
cellar dirt, and industrial, municipal, agricultural waste and certain
characteristics of wastewater (for example, pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity,
color, BOD, toxicity, or odor).
   POLLUTION. The human-made or human-induced alteration of the chemical,
physical, biological, and radiological integrity of water.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater to a less harmful state prior to, or in lieu of, discharging or
otherwise introducing such pollutants into a POTW. The reduction or alteration
can be obtained by physical, chemical, or biological processes, or process
changes by other means, except as prohibited by 40 C.F.R. Part 403.6(d) by
dilution as a substitute for PRETREATMENT.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a national pretreatment standard, imposed on an
industrial user.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. The standards for the allowable discharge of
industrial wastewaters to the POTW as specified in §
51.048. The effective PRETREATMENT STANDARDS for significant industrial users
will be the more restrictive, limiting standard(s) of either the categorical
pretreatment standards and those specified in §
51.042.
   PUBLIC SEWER LINE. A sewer line installed within public rights-of-way or
utility easements which is owned, controlled, operated, and maintained by the
City and receives wastewater from one or more residential or commercial
services and conveys such wastewater to the publicly owned treatment facility.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works as defined by § 212
of the Act, (33 U.S.C. § 1292) which is owned in this instance by the City.
This definition includes any sewers that convey wastewater to the POTW
treatment plant, but does not include pipes, sewers, or other conveyances not
connected to a facility providing treatment. For the purposes of this chapter,
POTW shall also include any sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from
persons outside the City who are, by contract or agreement with the City, users
of the City’s POTW.
   POTW TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW designed to provide treatment
to wastewater.
   PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR. The then-acting Public Works Director for the City or
his or her duly authorized representative.
   REPRESENTATIVE SAMPLE. A sample portion of material or waste stream that is
as nearly identical in content and consistency as possible to that in the
material or waste stream being sampled.
   SELF MONITORING. Measurements of the user’s wastewater constituents by the
user as may be specified by the control authority or required under applicable
state law and pretreatment standards.
   SEPTIC TANK WASTE. Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, and septic tanks.
   SHALL, WILL, and MAY. Shall and will are mandatory; may is permissive.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any categorical industrial user (CIU). Any
other industrial user that meets one or more of the following criteria:
      (1)   Discharges 25,000 gallons or more of process wastewater per day;
      (2)   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up 5% or more of the
dry-weather average hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW; or
      (3)   Is designated as such by the control authority on the basis that it
has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation or for
violating a pretreatment standard or pretreatment requirement.
   SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE. An industrial user is in significant
noncompliance if its violations meet one or more of the following criteria:
      (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined as those
in which 66% or more of all of the measurements taken during a six-month period
exceed (by any magnitude) the daily maximum limit or the average limit for the
same pollutant parameter;
      (2)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined as those in
which 33% or more of all of the measurements for each pollutant parameter taken
during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of the daily average
limit times the applicable TRC (TRC = 1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oil, and grease,
and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment effluent limit (daily maximum
or longer-term average) that the control authority determines has caused, alone
or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass-through
(including endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public);
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to human health, welfare, or to the environment or has resulted in the POTW’s
exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the scheduled date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a local control mechanism or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide, within 30 days after the due date, required
reports such as baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports,
periodic self-monitoring reports, and reports on compliance with compliance
schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
      (8)   Any other violation or group of violations which the control
authority determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of
the local pretreatment program.
   SLUG LOAD. Any pollutant released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or
pollutant concentration which will cause interference or upset of the POTW; or,
any discrete sample, the concentration of which exceeds five times the
discharge limit.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, sludge from a waste treatment plant, water
supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility, and other discarded
material, including solid, liquid, semi-solid, or containing gaseous materials
resulting from industrial, commercial, mining, and agricultural operations, and
from community activities.
   SPILL CONTAINMENT or SPILL PROTECTION FACILITIES. Physical barrier system of
dikes, wails, barriers, berms, or other devices which provides protection from
accidental discharge or spill from the liquid contents of containers into the
sewer system of prohibited, hazardous, or other waste materials which are
regulated through this chapter.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of the
President, Office of Management and Budget.
   STANDARD METHODS. The most current edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater as published by the American Public Health
Association.
   STATE. State of Arizona.
   STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). The total suspended matter that floats on the
surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or other liquids, which is
removeable by laboratory filtering.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic
in regulations promulgated by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection
Agency under the provision of 40 C.F.R. Part 403, Appendix 8.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and temporary
noncompliance with discharge limits because of factors beyond the reasonable
control of the user. An UPSET does not include noncompliance to the extent
caused by operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities,
inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventative maintenance, or careless
or improper operation.
   U.S.C. United States Code.
   USER. Any person, categorical user, significant user, industrial discharger,
or industrial user who contributes, causes, or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the City’s POTW.
   WASTE. Sewage and other waste substances, liquid, solid, gaseous, or
radioactive, associated with human habitation or of human or animal nature,
including such wastes placed within containers of whatever nature prior to and
for the purpose of disposal.
   WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes from
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, and institutions,
together with any groundwater, surface water, and stormwater that may be
present, whether treated or untreated, which is contributed into or permitted
to enter the POTW.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY. The portion of the POTW which is designed to
provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial waste.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems, and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or
underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained
within, flow through, or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-1) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013; Ord. 21-21, passed 11-8-
2021)
§ 51.042 REGULATED WASTES.
   (A)   General discharge prohibitions.
      (1)   No user shall discharge or cause to be discharged to the City’s
sewerage systems, or to any public sewer that directly or indirectly connects
to the City’s sewerage system, any wastes which will interfere with the
operation or performance of the POTW and may have an adverse or harmful effect
on sewers, maintenance personnel, personnel or equipment, treatment plant
processes or the quality of treatment plant effluent or residue, public or
private property, or wastes which may otherwise endanger the public, the
environment, or create a public nuisance. No user shall discharge or cause to
be discharged to the City’s sewerage systems, or to any public sewer that
directly or indirectly connects to the City’s sewerage systems, any wastes
which adversely affect water reclamation processes or the quality of reclaimed
water, cause a violation of any POTW permit requirements, or place the City in
noncompliance with any of the statutory authorities listed in 40 C.F.R. Part
403.3(i). These general prohibitions apply to all such users of a POTW whether
or not the user is subject to federal categorical pretreatment standards or any
other federal, state, City, or local pretreatment standards or pretreatment
requirements.
      (2)   (a)   The following wastes are prohibited:
            1.   Any liquids, solids, or gases which by reason of their nature
or quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with
other substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to
the sewerage system, the POTW, or to the operation of the POTW. This includes,
but is not limited to, wastestrearns with a closed cup flashpoint of less than
140°F or 60°C using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. Part 261.21. At no
time shall two successive readings on an explosion hazard meter, at the point
of discharge into the system or at any point in the system, be more than 5% nor
any single reading over 10% of the lower explosive limit (LED) of the meter.
Prohibited materials include, but are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene,
naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes,
solvent, fuel oil, peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides,
hydrides, and sulfides;
            2.   Solid or viscous substances which may cause obstruction to the
flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater
treatment facilities such as, but not limited to, grease, any garbage or waste,
other than domestic wastewater, that is not ground sufficiently to pass through
a three-eighths inch screen, dead animals, animal guts or tissues, paunch
manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshing, entrails, whole blood, feathers, offal,
ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw,
industrial process shavings, diatomaceous earth, grass clippings, rags, spent
grains, spent hops, wood, plastics, tar, asphalt residues, mud, or glass
grinding wastes or polishing wastes, paper dishes, paper cups, milk containers,
or other similar paper products, whole or ground, or materials which tend to
solidify in the sewer and obstruct wastewater flow;
            3.   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 and greater than 9.0,
or having any other corrosive or detrimental characteristics capable of causing
damage or hazard to the sewerage system or to structures, equipment, and/or
personnel of the POTW. Where a user is required by its permit to continuously
monitor the pH of its wastewater discharge, the user shall maintain the pH
within the range set forth in its permit;
            4.   Any wastewater containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gas pollutants in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with
other pollutants, to injure or interfere detrimentally with any wastewater
treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans, animals, or the environment,
create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the POTW, cause a public
nuisance, cause any hazardous condition to occur in the sewerage system, or to
exceed the limitation set forth in a categorical pretreatment standard;
            5.   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants which result in the
presence of toxic gases, vapors, or fumes within the POTW and/or the sewerage
system in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and safety problems;
            6.   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids which
either singly or by interaction with other wastes are sufficient to create a
public nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the
sewers for maintenance and repair;
            7.   Any substance which may cause the POTW’s effluent or any other
product of the POTW, such as residues, sludges, or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case
shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in non-compliance
with sludge use or disposal criteria, guidelines, or regulations developed
under § 405 of the Act; any criteria, guidelines, or regulations affecting
sludge use of disposal developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the
Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, or state criteria applicable
to the sludge management method being used;
            8.   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its permit,
state or federal regulations, or the receiving water quality standards;
            9.   Any wastewater having a temperature of 60°C (140°F) or higher,
or which may cause the temperature of the treatment plant influent to exceed
40°C (104°F). Limits established by the control authority in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
            10.   Any waste containing substances that may precipitate,
solidify, gel, polymerize, or become viscous under conditions normally found in
the sewerage system;
            11.   Recognizable portions of the human anatomy;
            12.   Any hazardous waste discharged to any portion of the POTW
treatment plant by truck, rail, or dedicated pipe line;
            13.   Any discharge of pollutants, including oxygen demanding
pollutants (BOD and the like), released at a flow rate and/or pollutant
concentration which a user knows or has reason to know will cause interference
to the POTW. An affirmative defense for a user requires the user to satisfy two
conditions as follows: it did not know, or have reason to know, that its
discharge would cause pass-through or interference; and it was in compliance
with existing limits for each pollutant in its discharge; or, if a limit was
not enacted for such pollutant(s), its discharge directly before and during,
the pass-through or interference did not change substantially from its prior
discharge(s) which occurred when the POTW remained in compliance with its
national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) or other operating
permit;
            14.   Any wastewater containing any radioactive waste or isotopes
of such half life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the
control authority in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
            15.   Any wastewater which causes a hazard to human life or creates
a public nuisance;
            16.   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions;
            17.   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin;
            18.   Any waste containing dispersed biodegradable oils, fats, and
greases such as lard, tallow, or vegetable oil;
            19.   Any waste containing detergents, surface active agents, or
other substances which may cause foaming in the sewerage system;
            20.   Storm water, surface water, ground water, artesian well
water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, condensate, deionized water,
noncontact cooling water, and unpolluted wastewater;
            21.   Sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment
of industrial wastes;
            22.   Medical wastes; and
            23.   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other
sources, the treatment plant’s effluent to fail a toxicity test.
         (b)   When the control authority determines that a user(s) is
contributing to the POTW any of the above enumerated substances in such amounts
as to interfere with or pass-through of the operation of the POTW, the control
authority shall advise the user(s) of the impact of the discharge on the POTW
and require the user to correct the interference with the POTW pursuant to the
provisions of §§
51.115 through
51.121. Wastewater discharges in excess of the limits established by the City
or applicable categorical pretreatment standards shall constitute excessive
concentrations or quantities prohibited by this chapter.
   (B)   Medical and infectious wastes. No person shall discharge solid wastes
from hospitals, clinics, offices of medical doctors, dentists, mortuaries,
morgues, long term health care, medical laboratories, or other medical
facilities to the POTW including, but not limited to, “red bag” wastes,
hypodermic needles, syringes, instruments, utensils, or other paper and plastic
items of a disposal nature, or wastes excluded by other provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   Prohibition of dilution and excessive POTW hydraulic loading. No user
shall dilute and/or cause excessive POTW hydraulic loading problems, including,
but not limited to:
      (1)   Any water added for the purpose of diluting wastes which would
otherwise exceed maximum concentration limits;
      (2)   Any rain water, storm water runoff, groundwater, street drainage,
roof drainage, yard drainage, lawn sprays, or uncontaminated water except where
prior approval for such discharge is given by the control authority;
      (3)   Any deionized water, steam condensate, or distilled water in
amounts which cause problems with hydraulic loading;
      (4)   Any blow-down or bleed water from heating, ventilating, air
conditioning, or other evaporative systems exceeding one-third of the makeup
water in a two-hour period; and
      (5)   Any single-pass cooling or heating water.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-2) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.043 PROHIBITION OF BYPASS.
   (A)   Bypass of untreated industrial wastewater to the sewer is prohibited.
The City may take enforcement action against the user for bypass, unless:
      (1)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury, or
severe property damage;
      (2)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the use
of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate backup equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventative maintenance; and
      (3)   The permittee submitted notices as required under §
51.100.
   (B)   The control authority may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse affects, if the control authority determines that it
will meet the conditions listed in sections (A)(1) through (A)(3) above.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-2) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.044 SLUG LOADING.
   (A)   All users shall prevent discharge of slug loads into the POTW of
prohibited, hazardous, or other waste material which are regulated through this
chapter. Such protection shall be provided and maintained at the user’s
expense. Detailed plans shall be submitted to the control authority for review.
No user shall commence discharge to the POTW without accidental discharge
protection facilities or procedures.
   (B)   The City shall, at a minimum, evaluate whether each categorical user
and significant user needs a plan to control discharges at least once every two
years. If the control authority determines that a slug control plan is needed
for a categorical user or significant user of the POTW, the plan shall contain,
at a minimum, the following elements:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW of slug discharges,
including any discharge that would violate a prohibition under §
51.042(A)(1), with procedures for follow-up written notification within five
days; and
      (4)   If necessary, procedures to prevent adverse impact from accidental
spills, including inspection and maintenance of storage areas, handling and
transfer of materials, loading and unloading operations, control of plant site
run-off, worker training, building of containment structures or equipment,
measures for containing toxic organic pollutants (including solvents), and/or
measures and equipment for emergency response.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-2) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.045 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Each user shall provide protection from accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this chapter. Facilities
to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials shall be provided and
maintained at the owner’s or user’s own cost and expense. Detailed plans
showing facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be
approved by the City before construction of the facility. No user who commences
discharge to the POTW after the effective date of this chapter shall be
permitted to introduce pollutants into the system until accidental discharge
procedures have been approved by the City. Review and approval of such plans
and operating procedures shall not relieve the user from the responsibility to
modify the user’s facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   In the case of an accidental discharge, bypass, upset, spill, or slug
load, which may endanger people, the environment, and/or the POTW, it is the
responsibility of the user to immediately telephone and notify the control
authority as soon as the user becomes aware of the incident but no later than
two hours. The notification shall include location of discharge, type of waste,
concentration and volume, and corrective actions.
      (1)   Written notice. Within five days following an accidental discharge,
the user shall submit to the control authority a detailed written report
describing the cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user
to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the
user of any expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred as
a result of damage to the POTW, fish kills, or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, civil
penalties, or other liability which may be imposed by this chapter or other
applicable law.
      (2)   Notice to employees. A notice shall be permanently posted on the
user’s bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees whom to call
in the event of a accidental discharge. Employers shall ensure that all
employees who may cause or suffer such an accidental discharge to occur are
advised of the emergency notification procedure.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-2) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.046 CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Upon the promulgation of the categorical pretreatment standards for a
particular industrial subcategory, if the federal standard is more stringent
than limitations imposed under this chapter for sources in that subcategory,
then the categorical pretreatment standards for that subcategory shall
immediately supersede the limitations imposed under this chapter. The control
authority shall notify all affected users of the applicable reporting
requirements under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12. The categorical standards found in 40
C.F.R. Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471 are hereby incorporated into this
chapter. Any new or revised categorical pretreatment standards applicable to
local industrial users are automatically incorporated into this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-2) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.047 MODIFICATION OF CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Where the City’s wastewater treatment system achieves consistent removal of
pollutants limited by categorical pretreatment standards, the City may apply to
the approval authority for modification of specific limits in the categorical
pretreatment standards. CONSISTENT REMOVAL shall mean reduction in the amount
of a pollutant or alteration of the nature of the pollutant by the wastewater
treatment system to a less toxic or harmless state in the effluent which is
achieved by 95% of the samples when measured according to the procedures set
forth in 40 C.F.R. Part 403, § 403.7(c)(2) “General Pretreatment Regulations
for Existing and New Sources of Pollution” promulgated pursuant to the Act. The
City may then modify pollutant discharge limits in the categorical pretreatment
standards if the requirements contained in 40 C.F.R. Part 403, § 403.7, are
fulfilled and prior approval from the approval authority is obtained.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-2) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.048 SPECIFIC POLLUTANT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The standards for the allowable discharge of industrial wastewaters to
the POTW are listed here. The amount and nature of allowable discharges will be
specified on the permit and the characteristics of any discharge shall not
exceed those specified in this chapter. Users currently discharging wastewater
in excess of these standards shall limit the discharge to conform to the
standards within 90 days of the effective date of this chapter. The control
authority may impose mass limitations where they are appropriate or to promote
water conservation as allowed by 40 C.F.R. 403.6(c)(6) in addition to the
concentration-based limitations set forth below.
   (B)   Unless the control authority has imposed mass limitations, no person
shall discharge industrial wastewater containing in excess of the following
local limits.
Local Limits 2010
Pollutant Limit (mg/L)
Local Limits 2010
Pollutant                         Limit (mg/L)
Ammonia                           35
Arsenic                           0.06
Benzene                           0.03
Bis (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate      No limit
Biochemical Oxygen Demand (5-day) 300
Cadmium                           0.1
Chromium, Total                   0.3
Copper                            0.15
Cyanide                           0.2
Lead                              0.15
Manganese                         No limit
Mercury                           0.1
Molybdenum                        0.1
Nickel                            1.0
Nitrate                           8
Oil and Grease                    100
Phenol                            100
Selenium                          0.1
Silver                            0.02
Sulfide, Total                    6
Toluene                           1.0
TSS (Total Suspended Solids)      325
Zinc                              0.4
 
   (C)   The City accepts, at its discretion, discharges of treated,
contaminated groundwater to the POTW. In addition to allowing groundwater
discharges to meet all the City technically based local limits, this chapter
imposes several additional limits, not technically based, on groundwater
discharges. The additional groundwater limits are:
      (1)   Total Petroleum Hydrocarbons: 10.0 mg/L;
      (2)   Total BTEX (Benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, and xylenes): 1.0 mg/L;
      (3)   Any EPA priority pollutant other than the technically based local
limits indicated for metals: 0.75 mg/L; and
      (4)   Any organic solvent: 1 mg/L.
   (D)   These limits are readily achievable by activated carbon technology.
The EPA has established that the best available technology (BAT) economically
achievable limit for volatile organic solvents and hydrocarbons associated with
gasoline is five micrograms per liter (five mg/L).
(Prior Code, § 12-8-2) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.049 STATE REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any
case where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this chapter.
   (B)   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way,
attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the
categorical pretreatment standards, or in any other pollutant-specific
limitation developed by the City or state.
   (C)   Users who discharge to the POTW a substance which, if otherwise
disposed of, would be hazardous waste are subject to the notification
requirements as specified in §
51.102.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-2) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.050 FEES.
   (A)   The City may adopt charges and fees which may include:
      (1)   Fees for reimbursement for costs of setting up and operating the
City’s pretreatment program;
      (2)   Fees for monitoring, inspections, and surveillance procedures;
      (3)   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and construction
of facilities;
      (4)   Fees for permit applications;
      (5)   Fees for filing appeals;
      (6)   Fees for consistent removal (by the City) of pollutants otherwise
subject to pretreatment standards; and
      (7)   Other fees as the City may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein.
   (B)   The applicable charges and fees to be paid pursuant to this chapter
shall be set forth in the City’s schedule of charges and fees.
   (C)   These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this chapter and
are separate from all other fees chargeable by the City.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-3) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 51.065 WASTEWATER DISCHARGER.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge without a permit to any natural outlet
within the City, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the City, and/or to
the POTW any wastewater except as authorized by the City in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-4) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.066 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit for industrial wastewater discharge.
      (1)   Except as hereafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to
be discharged any industrial wastewaters directly or indirectly to sewerage
facilities owned by the City without first obtaining a permit. A permit shall
be obtained prior to commencement of any construction of new or modified
facilities which will discharge industrial wastewater to the sewer. A separate
permit shall be required for each industrial wastewater connection to a public
sewer discharging directly or indirectly to the City’s sewerage system. The use
of a sewer connection which is the subject of a permit by anyone other than the
person named in the permit is prohibited. A permit or permit revision shall
also be obtained by industrial dischargers who use industrial wastewater. Any
person who operates a portable treatment system must receive written
authorization from the control authority prior to commencement of operations at
any industrial facility. Any person operating a portable treatment system shall
comply with all requirements established by the City for such systems. A permit
shall also be obtained by all persons generating industrial wastewater.
      (2)   The City may exempt certain classes of dischargers of industrial
wastewaters from the requirement to obtain a permit if the quantity and quality
of the wastewater is determined to be unlikely to create significant effects on
the City’s sewerage system or produce violations of state law or federal
regulations. A discharger will be exempt if they permanently plug all floor
drains and other discharge lines other than domestic wastes.
      (3)   The permit may require pretreatment of industrial wastewaters
before discharge, restriction of peak flow discharges, relocation of point of
discharge, consolidation of wastewater discharge connections, prohibition of
discharge of certain wastewater components or characteristics, batch treatment
and discharge, restriction of discharge to certain hours of the day, and such
other conditions as may be required to effectuate the purposes of this chapter.
      (4)   Permits for facilities that receive for treatment, recycling or
reclamation one or more wastes generated off-site, may additionally require
monitoring of influent wastestreams and may restrict the types and quantities
of wastes accepted.
      (5)   A permit shall be required for, but not limited to, existing and
new industries, car washes, vehicle service stations or repair garages,
radiator shops, equipment shops, laundries, dry cleaners, hospitals, animal
groomers, barber shops, beauty salons, restaurants, nursing homes, veterinary
clinics, printers, grocery stores, mortuaries, cafeterias, x-ray labs, medical
and dental facilities, printers, photo processors, and chemical manufacturers.
These businesses, however, shall be responsible for ensuring that the
industrial wastewater discharges originating from their operations are in
compliance with the provisions set forth in this chapter.
      (6)   No person shall discharge industrial wastewaters in excess of the
quantity or quality limits stated in the permit. The violation of any permit
condition or requirement shall constitute a violation of this chapter and shall
be punishable as provided in this chapter and by law. Any person who, as
defined by the control authority, significantly increases or decreases flow
rate or significantly alters the quality of wastewater discharge shall
immediately apply for and obtain a permit revision. Any discharger who modifies
an industrial plant operating mode, process, or wastewater treatment facility
in a manner which, as defined by the control authority, would significantly
increase or decrease the flow rate or significantly alter the quality of the
wastewater discharge described in a permit shall first apply for and obtain a
permit revision. This permit revision shall be obtained prior to the
commencement of any construction of new plant facilities or operation of
modified facilities by the wastewater discharger.
      (7)   All users proposing to connect to or to contribute to the POTW
shall obtain a wastewater discharge permit before connecting to or contributing
to the POTW. All existing users connected to or contributing to the POTW shall
obtain a wastewater discharge permit within 30 days after the effective date of
this chapter.
   (B)   Application and baseline monitoring report.
      (1)   Users required to obtain a industrial wastewater discharge permit
shall complete and file with the City, an application in the form prescribed by
the City, and accompanied by a fee as prescribed in §
51.050. Existing users shall renew their industrial wastewater discharge permit
within 30 days after the effective date of this chapter, and proposed new users
shall apply at least 90 days prior to connecting to or contributing to the
POTW. In support of the application, the categorical user shall submit, in
units and terms appropriate for evaluation, the following baseline monitoring
report (BMR) information:
         (a)   Name, address, and location (if different from the address);
         (b)   The standard industrial classification code (SIC) number
according to the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, Office of
Management and Budget, 1972, as amended, which best characterizes the
activities undertaken on the user’s property;
         (c)   (Whichever is applicable) name and address of any and all
principals/owner/major shareholders of company; articles of incorporation; most
recent report of the Secretary of State; business licenses;
         (d)   Name and address of property owner, landlord, and/or manager of
the property;
         (e)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics including, but not
limited to, those mandated in this chapter as determined by a reliable
analytical laboratory; sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance
with procedures established in §
51.097(F) and (G), and by the EPA pursuant to Article 304(g) of the Act and
contained in the 40 C.F.R. Part 136, as amended;
         (f)   Time and duration of discharge;
         (g)   Average daily and 30-minute peak wastewater flow rates,
including daily, monthly, and seasonal variations if any from:
            1.   Regulated process streams; and
            2.   Other streams requiring use of the combined waste stream
formula. (See § 51.068.)
         (h)   A list of any environmental control permits held by or for the
facility;
         (i)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and
details to show all sewers, sewer connections to the POTW, floor drains, and
appurtenances by the size, location, and elevation;
         (j)   Description of activities, facilities, and plant manufacturing
processes on the premises, including all materials which are or could be
discharged;
         (k)   If applicable, a wastewater treatment process flow diagram of
associated unit processes and points of discharge to the POTW from regulated
processes;
         (l)   The nature and concentration of any pollutants in the discharge
which are limited by any City, state, or pretreatment standards, and a
statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards are being met on
a consistent basis, and, if not, whether additional operation and maintenance
(O&M) and/or additional pretreatment is required for the user to meet
applicable pretreatment standards;
         (m)   Results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration (or mass where required by categorical standards or the control
authority) or regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated
process. Both daily maximum and average concentration (or mass, where required)
shall be reported. Samples shall be representative of daily operations;
         (n)   If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be required to meet
the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will
provide such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule
shall not be later than the compliance date established for the applicable
pretreatment standard. The following conditions shall apply to this schedule.
            1.   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form
of dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards (for example, hiring an engineer,
completing preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing a contract for
major components, commencing construction, completing construction, and the
like).
            2.   No increment referred to in section (B)(1)(n)1. above shall
exceed nine months.
            3.   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
control authority including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the date on which it
expects to comply with this increment of progress, the reason for delay, and
the steps being taken by the user to return the construction to the schedule
established. In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such
progress reports to the control authority.
         (o)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes, and
rate of production;
         (p)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
         (q)   Number and type of employees, and hours of operation of plant
and proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system;
         (r)   Any other information as may be deemed by the City to be
necessary to evaluate the permit application;
         (s)   The BMR will be reviewed by an authorized representative of the
industrial user and certified by a qualified professional; and
         (t)   An authorized representative of the industrial user will be
required to sign the permit application as prescribed in §
51.099.
      (2)   The City will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may
require additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of the data
furnished, the City may issue a wastewater discharge permit subject to terms
and conditions provided herein.
   (C)   Modifications.
      (1)   Within 90 days of the promulgation of a categorical pretreatment
standard, the wastewater discharge permit of users subject to such standards
shall be revised to require compliance with such standard within the time frame
prescribed by such standard. Where a user, subject to a federal categorical
pretreatment standard, has not previously submitted an application for a
wastewater discharge permit as required by section (B) above, the user shall
apply for a wastewater discharge permit within 90 days after the promulgation
of the applicable federal categorical pretreatment standard. In addition, the
user with an existing wastewater discharge permit shall submit to the control
authority, within 90 days after the promulgation of an applicable categorical
pretreatment standard, the information required by sections (B)(1)(e), (B)(1)
(f), and (B)(1)(g) above.
      (2)   The control authority may modify a permit for categorical
industrial users or noncategorical industrial users to make the corrections or
allowances for changes in the permitted activity listed in this chapter. All
permit modifications are subject to a 30-day public notice followed by a public
hearing. Any permit modification not processed as a minor modification under
this chapter must be made for cause. Minor modifications may only:
         (a)   Correct typographical errors;
         (b)   Change in interim compliance date in a schedule of compliance,
provided the new date is not more than 90 days after the date specified in the
existing permit and does not interfere with attainment of the final compliance
date requirement;
         (c)   Allow for change in ownership or operational control of a
facility where the control authority determines that no other change in the
permit is necessary, provided that a written agreement containing a specific
date for transfer of permit responsibility, coverage, and liability between the
current and new permittee has been submitted to the control authority; or
         (d)   Except as provided for above, a permit may be transferred by the
permittee to new owner or operator only if the permit has been modified and
reissued, or a minor modification made to identify the new permittee and
incorporate such other requirements as may be necessary under this chapter
   (D)   Conditions. Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly subject to
all provisions of this chapter and all other applicable regulations, user
charges, and fees established by the City. Permits may contain the following:
      (1)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to a community sewer;
      (2)   Limits on the average and/or maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
      (3)   Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulations and equalization;
      (4)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
      (5)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency of sampling, number, types, and standards for tests and
reporting schedule;
      (6)   Compliance schedules;
      (7)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports (see §§
51.095 through
51.104);
      (8)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records relating
to wastewater discharge as specified by the City, and affording the City access
thereto;
      (9)   Requirements for notification of the City or any new introduction
of wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character
of the wastewater constituents being introduced into the POTW; and
      (10)   Requirements for notification of slug loads as per §§
51.044 and
51.045.
   (E)   Duration. Permits shall be issued for a specified time period of one
year minimum, and in no case more than five years. The user shall submit a
letter of renewal with appropriate fees 30 days before the existing permit
expires. The terms and conditions of the permit may be subject to modification
by the City during the term of the permit as limitations or requirements as
identified in §§
51.042 through
51.049 are modified or other just cause exists. The user shall be informed of
any proposed changes in his or her permit at least 30 days prior to the
effective date of change. Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall
include a reasonable time schedule for compliance.
   (F)   Transfer. Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a specific user
for a specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned
or transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises, or a new
or changed operation without the approval of the City. The control authority
may require modification or reissuance of the permit to change the name of the
user and incorporate such other requirements as may be necessary under this
chapter.
   (G)   Appeal procedures. Any person aggrieved by any decision of the control
authority with respect to the issuance of the wastewater discharge permit may
appeal to the City Council by filing with the control authority. The Council
shall thereupon fix a time and place for hearing such appeal. The control
authority shall thereupon give notice to such person of the time and place of
hearing by serving it personally or by depositing it in the United States Post
Office in the City, postage prepaid, addressed to such person at his or her
last known address.
   (H)   Comment period. The permit holder may comment in writing to the
control authority within 30 days from the date of the mailing of the permit to
the holder.
   (I)   Reopener clause. The permit shall be modified to incorporate an
applicable standard or limitation which is promulgated or approved after the
permit is issued if that standard or limitation is more stringent than the
limitation in the permit, or controls a pollutant not limited in the permit.
   (J)   Termination of permits. The following are causes for terminating a
permit during its term, or for denying a permit renewal application:
      (1)   Noncompliance by the permittee with any condition of the permit;
      (2)   The permittee’s failure in the application or during the permit
issuance process to disclose fully all relevant facts, or the permittee’s
misrepresentation of any relevant facts at any time;
      (3)   A determination that the permitted activity endangers human health
or the environment and can only be regulated to acceptable levels by permit
modification or termination; or
      (4)   A change in any condition that requires either a temporary or a
permanent reduction or elimination of any discharge controlled by the permit.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-4) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.067 DEADLINE FOR COMPLIANCE WITH CATEGORICAL STANDARDS.
   Compliance by existing sources with categorical pretreatment standards shall
be within three years of the date the pretreatment standard is effective,
unless a shorter compliance time is specified in the appropriate subpart of 40
C.F.R. Chapter I, Subchapter N. Existing sources which become users subsequent
to promulgation of an applicable categorical pretreatment standard shall be
considered existing users, except where such sources meet the definition of a
new source. New sources shall install and have in operating condition, and
shall “start-up” all pollution control equipment required to meet applicable
pretreatment standards before beginning to discharge. New sources must meet all
applicable pretreatment standards within the shortest feasible time, not to
exceed 90 days.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-4) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.068 COMBINED WASTE STREAMS.
   (A)   (1)   Where a categorical user’s regulated wastewaters mix with other
regulated or unregulated wastewaters of the categorical user prior to the
designated sampling manhole (such as, sample point), alternative pollutant
limits may be derived by the control authority using the following combined
wastewater formula.
      (2)    Where:
         (a)    CT = the alternative concentration limit for the combined
wastestream;
         (b)   Ci = the categorical pretreatment standard limit for a pollutant
in the regulated stream i;
         (c)   Fi = the average daily flow (at least a 30-day average) of
stream i to the extent that it is regulated for such pollutant;
         (d)   FD = the average daily flow (at least a 30-day average) from
boiler blowdown streams, non-contact cooling streams, sanitary wastestreams,
and demineralizer back wash streams, where such streams are not regulated by a
categorical pretreatment standard;
         (e)   FT = the average daily flow (at least a 30-day average) through
the combined treatment facility (includes Fi and FD); and
         (f)   N = the total number of regulated streams.
   (B)   The categorical user shall comply with the alternative pollutant limit
fixed by the control authority until the control authority modifies the limits
or approves a user modification request. Modification is authorized whenever
there is a material or significant change in the values used in the calculation
to fix alternative limits for the regulated pollutant.
   (C)   An alternative discharge limit may not be used if the alternative
limit is below the analytical detection limit for any of the regulated
pollutants. As a result, the combined wastewater formula cannot be used and
wastestreams must be segregated.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-4) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.069 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   The City shall require to be provided and operated, at the categorical
industrial user and significant industrial user’s own expense, monitoring
facilities to allow inspection, sampling, and flow measurement of the building
sewer and/or internal drainage systems. The monitoring facility should normally
be situated on the categorical user and significant industrial user’s premises,
but the City may, when such a location would be impractical or cause undue
hardship on the user, allow the facility to be constructed in the public street
or sidewalk area and located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping
or parked vehicles.
   (B)   As a condition of the permit, all discharged industrial wastewater
shall pass through a designated sampling location. There shall be ample room in
or near such sampling manhole or facility to allow accurate flow proportional
sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The facility flow metering
equipment shall be maintained at all times, in a safe and proper operating
condition at the expense of the user.
   (C)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the City’s
requirements and all applicable local construction standards and
specifications. Construction shall be completed within 90 days following
written notification by the City.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-4) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.070 PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   The control authority may require an existing or new user to provide
wastewater pretreatment systems or facilities when the control authority
determines that it is necessary to treat industrial flows prior to discharge to
the sewer, to restrict or prevent the discharge to the sewer of certain waste
constituents, to distribute any peak discharges of industrial wastewaters more
equally over a longer time period, to comply with any state discharge or
pretreatment requirements, to comply with pretreatment standards, or to
accomplish any pretreatment result required by the control authority in order
to effectuate the purposes of this chapter. Any pretreatment facilities
required by the control authority shall be provided and maintained at the
expense of the user. Pretreatment systems or facilities shall not be installed
or operated without the prior written approval of the control authority. The
requirement for such approval, however, shall not absolve the user of the
responsibility for meeting any industrial wastewater discharge limitation
imposed by the City or by the state or federal government if inspections or
other information reveal that pretreatment systems and facilities are not
installed or operated in conformance with the plans and procedures submitted to
and approved by the City, or are not operated in compliance with the discharge
requirements and limitations imposed by the City, the user shall make such
modifications as are necessary to meet such requirements. Users who have the
potential to discharge significant levels of flammable substances, as defined
by the control authority, shall install and maintain approved combustible gas
detection meter systems. All pretreatment systems determined by the control
authority to require engineering design shall have plans prepared and signed by
a civil, chemical, or mechanical engineer registered in the state or a
registered engineer of other suitable discipline as determined by the control
authority.
   (B)   The control authority may require any user discharging into the POTW
to install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a suitable
storage and flow control facility to ensure equalization of flow. A wastewater
discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
   (C)   Gravity separation interceptors, equalizing tanks, neutralization
chambers, control manholes or other monitoring facilities, and spill
containment systems, may be required by the control authority as he or she
deems necessary to remove prohibited settleable and floatable solids, to
equalize wastewater streams varying greatly in quantity and/or quality, to
neutralize low or high pH wastewater, to facilitate inspection, flow
measurement, and sampling, and to prevent discharge to the sewer of quantities
of prohibited or restricted materials resulting from a rupture of a tank or
pipeline or other such accidental occurrences. Spill containment systems shall
conform to guidelines established by the control authority. Floor drains from
existing or new service garages, repair shops, equipment shops, and vehicular
maintenance facilities are not allowed.
   (D)   The City shall annually publish in the largest daily City newspaper a
list of users which were in significant noncompliance. The names of the
industrial users and their violations will be published. The status of the
noncompliance and the enforcement action will be noted.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-4) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.071 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Except for data determined to be confidential under 40 C.F.R. Part 2,
information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires, permit
applications, permits, effluent data and monitoring programs, and from
inspections shall be available to the public or other governmental agency
without restriction, unless the user specifically requests and is able to
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the City that the release of such
information would divulge information, processes, or methods of production
entitled to protection as trade secrets of the user.
   (B)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available upon written request to governmental agencies for uses related to
this chapter, the POTW permits, and/or the pretreatment programs; provided,
however, that such portions of a report shall be available for use by the state
or any state agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the
person furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics will
not be recognized as confidential information.
   (C)   Information accepted by the City as confidential shall not be
transmitted to the general public by the City until and unless a ten-day
notification is given to the user and approved by the user.
   (D)   This chapter shall not be construed to prohibit the City from
disclosing data obtained pursuant to the pretreatment program to the EPA or
ADEQ. The EPA or ADEQ shall have the right to obtain all such data regardless
of whether general public access could be restricted pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-4) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.072 RESPONSE TO PERMIT APPLICATION AND QUESTIONNAIRE FORMS.
   Any user shall reply to the control authority and submit any permit
application, questionnaire form, baseline monitoring report (BMR), and any
other related lists, plans, analyses, flow information, or other materials, as
requested by the control authority, within 30 days of receipt of any such forms
or requests.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-4) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.073 SEPARATION OF WASTES.
   All domestic wastewaters from rest rooms, showers, drinking fountains, and
similar sources shall be kept separate from all industrial wastewaters until
the industrial wastewaters have passed through any required pretreatment
facility or device and the industrial wastewater monitoring facility. The
control authority may waive this condition and may use the combined wastewater
formula to determine discharge permit limits.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-4) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.074 GREASE INTERCEPTORS AND GRAVITY SEPARATING DEVICES.
   (A)   Resturants (existing and new). All restaurants or food service
facilities shall install an approved grease interceptor which is of sufficient
size so as to prevent excessive discharges of grease into the City’s sewerage
system. The grease interceptor shall be easily accessible for inspection by the
control authority. Exceptions to the installation of a grease interceptor shall
be determined on a case-by- case basis by the control authority. The control
authority shall take into account the following items when determining
exceptions:
      (1)   Size of restaurant;
      (2)   Meals served per day;
      (3)   Daily water usage based upon water bills;
      (4)   Seating capacity; and
      (5)   Dishwasher and garbage disposal facilities on-hand.
   (B)   Car washes, radiator shops, vehicle service stations, and garages
(existing and new). Car washes will be required to install mud pits and a
gravity separating device designed to prevent the discharge of sand, silt, oil,
and grease to the City’s sewerage system. Radiator shops, vehicle service
stations, and garages will be required to plug floor drains and remove sinks in
the service bays and repair shops.
   (C)   Laundries and dry cleaners (existing and new). After the effective
date of this chapter, all laundries and dry cleaners or similar establishments
shall install lint filters and a gravity separating device of a size and design
approved by the control authority. They shall also install any other
pretreatment facility required by the control authority to ensure their
compliance with all requirements and specifications of this chapter.
Establishments in existence prior to the effective date of this chapter shall
install an appropriate pretreatment system if, in the opinion of the control
authority, the system is warranted.
   (D)   Existing gravity separating device and grease interceptors. If the
control authority finds that a grease interceptor or gravity separating device
installed prior to the effective date of this chapter is incapable of retaining
adequately the grease or sand and oil in the wastewater flow from a service
station, car wash, restaurant, or similar establishment, the control authority
shall give the proprietor a written notice requiring that an adequate
interceptor or gravity separating device be installed within 90 days.
   (E)   Approved designs. The design of grease interceptors and gravity
separating devices shall follow the currently adopted Plumbing Code. The user
shall submit a proposed design to the control authority for review and
approval.
   (F)   Maintenance of grease interceptors and gravity separating devices. Any
grease interceptor or gravity separating device required by this chapter shall
be readily accessible for inspection and properly maintained to assure that the
accumulations of grease or sand and oil do not impair its efficiency or pass
out with the effluent. All users required to use and maintain a grease
interceptor or gravity separating device shall maintain a maintenance record.
This record shall include the date, the name of the person who cleaned it, and
the disposal site of the waste. The report shall be reviewed by the control
authority at each routine inspection. Persons hauling wastes and wastewater
removed from these interceptors or gravity separating devices shall be
registered to do so by the proper permitting agency. An interceptor or gravity
separating device shall not be considered properly maintained if material
accumulations total more than 25% of the operating fluid capacity.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-4) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.075 WASTEWATER FLOW MEASUREMENT EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Categorical users and significant industrial users discharging process
wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling, and boiler
blowdown wastewater) shall furnish, install, and properly maintain an open
channel wastewater flow measurement system. Users that have unmetered sources
of water supply, excessive non-sewered losses, or highly fluctuating wastewater
discharge may also be required to install flow measurement (FM) systems. The FM
system shall be capable of supplying a flow proportioned signal as required by
the City and may include automatic flow proportional sampling equipment and
automatic wastewater analysis and data recording equipment. The FM shall be
used to evaluate the quantity and quality of industrial wastewater discharge to
the public sewer.
   (B)   Categorical users and significant industrial users required to install
a FM system shall propose a suitable location and design for the FM system.
Upon approval of the FM system by the City, the user shall perform wastewater
monitoring at this facility and shall agree to allow the use of this system for
industrial wastewater monitoring by the City. The FM system shall be located so
as to be safe and accessible to City employees, and shall be constructed in
accordance with the City’s requirements, and all applicable City building
codes. Plans for all FM systems determined by the control authority to require
engineering design shall be prepared and signed by a registered civil,
chemical, or mechanical engineer.
   (C)   The user’s FM system shall be subject to inspection by the City at any
time. FM systems shall be properly operated, kept clean, and maintained in good
working order at all times by the user.
   (D)   If the control authority requires or the owner chooses to install a
flow meter (FM), the FM system must be hydraulically calibrated once every two
years and a photocopy of the calibration must be sent to the control authority.
Flow charts are to be held by the user for a minimum of three years and made
available to the City upon request. Totalizer readings shall be recorded daily
and twice a year. A report shall be submitted to the control authority showing
total daily flows and total monthly flow.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-4) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.076 COMBUSTIBLE GAS DETECTION METER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Users who have the potential to discharge significant levels of
flammable substances exceeding 5% of the lower explosive limit (LEL) shall
install and maintain approved combustible gas detection meter systems. In the
event LEL levels exceed 10%, installed combustible gas meters shall be equipped
to activate an alarm and discontinuation of the discharge. All combustible
meters determined by the control authority to require engineering design shall
have plans prepared and signed by a registered civil, chemical, or mechanical
engineer.
   (B)   Calibration of combustible gas detection meter systems must be
certified before startup. Certified annual meter calibrations for existing and
new meters are also required from the date of system startup for new
installations or the initial calibration for existing systems.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-4) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.077 WASTE MINIMIZATION PROGRAM.
   (A)   The RCRA (Resource Conservation and Recovery Act) regulations require
that generators of hazardous waste “have a program in place to reduce the
volume and toxicity of waste generated to the extent that is economically
practical”. A waste minimization program is an organized, comprehensive, and
continual effort to systematically reduce waste generation. Generally, a
program is established for the organization as a whole. Its components shall
include specific waste minimization projects and shall use waste minimization
assessments as a tool for determining where and how waste can be reduced. A
waste minimization program shall reflect the goals and policies for waste
minimization set by the organization’s management. Also, the program shall be
an ongoing effort and strive to make waste minimization part of the company’s
operating philosophy.
   (B)   Users who discharge to the POTW with a substance which, if otherwise
disposed of, would be a hazardous waste, are subject to the notification
requirements as specified in §
51.102.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-4) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.078 DUTY TO COMPLY.
   (A)   The user must comply with all conditions of the permit. Any permit
noncompliance constitutes a violation of this chapter and is grounds for
enforcement action as provided in §§
51.115 through
51.121.
   (B)   The user shall comply with effluent standards or prohibitions
established under Article 307(a) of the Clean Water Act for toxic pollutants
within the time provided in the regulations that establish these standards or
prohibitions, even if the permit has not yet been modified to incorporate the
requirement.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-4) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.079 DUTY TO MITIGATE.
   The user shall take all reasonable steps to minimize or prevent any
discharge in violation of the permit which has a reasonable likelihood of
adversely affecting human health or the environment.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-4) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.080 PROPER OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   The user shall at all times properly operate and maintain all facilities and
systems of treatment and control (and related appurtenances) which are
installed or used by the user to achieve compliance with the conditions of the
permit. Proper operation and maintenance also includes adequate laboratory
controls and appropriate quality assurance procedures. This provision requires
the operation of back-up or auxiliary facilities or similar systems which are
installed by a user only when the operation is necessary to achieve compliance
with conditions of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-4) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.081 PERMIT ACTIONS.
   The permit may be modified, suspended, or revoked for cause. The filing of a
request by the user for a permit modification, reissuance, or a notification of
planned changes or anticipated noncompliance does not change the current permit
condition.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-4) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.082 DUTY TO PROVIDE INFORMATION.
   The user shall furnish to the City, within a reasonable time, any
information which the City may request to determine whether cause exists for
modifying, revoking, and reissuing, or to determine compliance with the permit.
The user shall also furnish to the City upon request, copies of records
required to be kept by the permit.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-4) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.083 CIVIL AND CRIMINAL LIABILITY.
   Except as otherwise provided in §§
51.043 and
51.045, nothing in the permit shall be construed to relieve the permittee from
administrative, civil, or criminal penalties for noncompliance.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-4) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
MONITORING, REPORTING, NOTIFICATION, AND INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS
§ 51.095 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMITTEE.
   (A)   Compliance date report for categorical users (existing and new).
      (1)   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with
applicable categorical pretreatment standards or, in the case of a new source,
following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any
industrial user subject to pretreatment standards and pretreatment requirements
shall submit to the control authority a report. The report shall be certified
by a qualified professional. The report shall state whether the applicable
pretreatment standards or pretreatment requirements are being met on a
consistent basis and, if not, what additional operation and maintenance and/or
pretreatment is necessary to bring the user into compliance with the applicable
pretreatment standards or pretreatment requirements. This statement shall be
signed by an authorized representative of the categorical user using the
certification presented in §
51.099.
      (2)   New sources shall install and have in operating condition, and
shall “start up” all pollution control equipment required to meet applicable
pretreatment standards before beginning to discharge. Within the shortest
feasible time, not to exceed 90 days, new sources must meet all applicable
pretreatment standards.
      (3)   For categorical users subject to equivalent mass or concentration
limits established by the control authority, this report shall contain a
reasonable measure of the user’s long term production rate. For all other
industrial users subject to categorical pretreatment standards expressed in
terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of production (or other measure
of operation), this report shall include the user’s actual production during
the appropriate sampling period.
   (B)   Periodic compliance reports for significant users (existing and new).
      (1)   All categorical users and significant industrial users subject to a
pretreatment standard, after the compliance date of such pretreatment standard
or, in the case of a new source, after commencement of the discharge into the
POTW, shall submit to the control authority during the months of June and
December, unless required more frequently in the pretreatment standard or by
the control authority, a report indicating the nature and concentration of
pollutants in the effluent which are limited by such pretreatment standards. In
addition, this report shall include a record of measured or estimated average
and maximum daily flows for the reporting period for the discharge reported in
the user’s permit. This report shall be signed by an authorized representative
of the significant user using the declaration indicated in §
51.099.
      (2)   The control authority may impose mass limitations on users which
are using intentional or unintentional forms of dilution (such as, combination
of waste streams, boiler blowdown, and the like) to meet applicable
pretreatment standards or pretreatment requirements, or in other cases where
the imposition of mass limitations are appropriate. In such cases, the report
required by section (B)(1) above shall indicate the mass of pollutants
regulated by pretreatment standards in the effluent of the user. These reports
shall contain the results of sampling and analysis of the discharge, including
the flow and the nature and concentration, or production and mass where
requested by the control authority, of pollutants contained therein which are
limited by the applicable pretreatment standards. The frequency of monitoring
shall be prescribed in the applicable pretreatment standard. All analysis shall
be performed in accordance with procedures established by 40 C.F.R. Part 136.
      (3)   For categorical users and significant industrial users subject to
equivalent mass or concentration limits established by the categorical
pretreatment standards or the control authority, the report required by section
(A) above shall contain a reasonable measure of the user’s long term production
rate. For all other industrial users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards expressed only in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of
production (or other measure of operation), the report required by section (A)
above shall include the user’s actual average production rate for the reporting
period.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-5) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.096 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The control authority shall inspect the facilities of any user to
ascertain whether the purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements
are being complied with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is
created or discharged shall allow the City or its representative ready access
at all reasonable times to all parts of the premises for the purposes of
inspection, sampling, examining, or copying any records that must be kept under
conditions of the permit, and/or in the performance of any of their duties.
Inspection may include any facilities, equipment (including monitoring and
control equipment), practices, or operations regulated or required under the
permit. The City will randomly inspect and sample all categorical users and
significant industrial users at least once a year. All associated sampling
costs will be incurred by the user.
   (B)   The control authority will randomly inspect industrial users and
conduct surveillance activities in order to identify, independent of
information supplied by industrial users, occasional and continuing
noncompliance with pretreatment standards. The City will evaluate, at least
once every two years, whether each such categorical users and significant
industrial user need a plan to control slug discharges as set forth in §
51.044.
   (C)   The control authority shall have the right to set up on the user’s
property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling, inspection,
compliance monitoring, and/or metering operations for any substances or
parameters at any location for the purposes of assuring permit compliance or as
otherwise authorized by this chapter.
   (D)   Where a user has security measures in force which would require proper
identification and clearance before entry into their premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with their security guards so that upon
presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the City will be
permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of performing their
specific responsibilities.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-5) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.097 MONITORING, SAMPLING, AND RECORDS.
   (A)   All categorical users and significant industrial users shall monitor
for wastewater constituents on a monthly basis as may be specified by the
control authority or required under applicable state law, federal pretreatment
standards, or federal regulations. Categorical users shall monitor for all
federal limited parameters at least twice a year and for all Clean Water Act
priority pollutants at least once per year. Wastewater flow measurements and
samples shall be collected and analyzed in a state certified laboratory. The
laboratory results shall be submitted with the monthly report in the month they
are received. Laboratory analysis and associated sampling costs will be paid
for by the user.
   (B)   Samples and measurements taken for the purpose of monitoring shall be
representative of the monitored activity. Samples should be taken immediately
downstream from pretreatment facilities if such exist or immediately downstream
from the process if no pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are mixed with
the regulated wastewater prior to pretreatment, the user should measure the
flows and concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined wastestream
formula of §
51.068 in order to evaluate compliance with the pretreatment standards. Where
an alternate concentration or mass limit has been calculated in accordance with
§
51.068, this adjusted limit along with the supporting data shall be submitted
to the control authority.
   (C)   The user shall retain records of all monitoring information including
all calibration and maintenance records and all original strip chart recordings
for continuous monitoring instrumentation, copies of all reports required by
the permit, and records of all data used to complete the application for the
permit, for a period of at least three years from the date of the sample,
measurement, report, or application. This period may be extended by request of
the control authority (such as, during unresolved litigation).
   (D)   Records of monitoring information shall include:
      (1)   The date, exact place, and time of sampling or measurements;
      (2)   The individual(s) who performed the sampling or measurements;
      (3)   The date(s) analyses were performed;
      (4)   The individual(s) who performed the analyses;
      (5)   The analytical techniques or methods used; and
      (6)   The results of such analyses.
   (E)   Monitoring must be conducted according to test procedures approved
under 40 C.F.R. Part 136, unless other test procedures have been specified in
the permit.
   (F)   A grab sample must be used for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and
grease, sulfide, and volatile organics unless otherwise specified in the
permit. For all other pollutants, 24-hour composite samples must be obtained
through flow proportional composite sampling techniques where feasible. As
specified in the user’s permit, the control authority may permit 24-hour time
composite sampling where flow proportioned composite sampling for any user that
demonstrates flow proportional sampling is infeasible.
   (G)   All samples shall be analyzed in conformance with A.R.S. §§ 36-495 et
seq., Environmental Laboratories Requirements.
   (H)   A categorical user or significant industrial user who independently
monitors any pollutant more frequently than as conducted by the control
authority and required and specified by the control authority, shall include
the results of this monitoring in the required reports due in June and
December.
   (I)   If sampling performed by categorical user and significant industrial
users indicates a violation, the user shall notify the control authority within
24 hours of becoming aware of the violation. The user shall also repeat the
sampling and analysis and submit the results of the repeat analysis to the
control authority within 30 days after becoming aware of the violation unless
the control authority performs sampling between the time when the user performs
its initial sampling and the time when the user receives the results of this
sampling.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-5) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.098 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   An authorized representative of the user will be required to sign all
reports submitted by the user as prescribed in §
51.099.
   (A)   Planned changes. The permittee shall give notice to the control
authority as soon as possible of any planned physical alterations or additions
to the permitted facility. Notice is required only when:
      (1)   The alteration or addition to a permitted facility may meet one of
the criteria for determining whether a facility is a new source;
      (2)   Any anticipated facility expansions, production increases, or
process modifications which will result in new, different, or increased
discharges of pollutants must be reported by submission of a new permit
application or, if such changes will not violate the discharge limitations
specified in the permit, by notice to the control authority; or
      (3)   Following such notice, the permit may be modified to specify and
limit any pollutants not previously limited or change existing limits or other
requirements. Approval must be obtained prior to any new discharges. The user
shall allow 90 days for review.
   (B)   Anticipated noncompliance. The user shall give advance notice to the
control authority of any planned changes in the permitted facility or activity
which may result in noncompliance with permit requirements.
   (C)   Self-monitoring reports. Monitoring results shall be reported at the
intervals specified in the permit.
      (1)   Monitoring results must be reported each month.
      (2)   If the user monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by
the permit, using test procedures approved under 40 C.F.R. Part 136 or as
specified in the permit, the results of this monitoring shall be included in
the calculation and reporting of the data.
      (3)   Calculations for all limitations which require averaging of
measurements shall utilize an arithmetic mean.
      (4)   The user shall submit the results of sampling and analysis
identifying the nature and concentration (or mass where required by the
categorical standard or the control authority) of regulated pollutants in the
discharge from each regulated process. Both daily maximum and average
concentration (or mass, where required) shall be reported. The sample shall be
representative of daily operations.
   (D)   Compliance schedules. Reports of compliance or noncompliance with, or
any progress reports on, interim final requirements contained in any compliance
schedule of the permit shall be submitted no later than 14 days following each
schedule date.
   (E)   Intermittent discharge monitoring. If the discharge is intermittent
rather than continuous, then on the first day of each such intermittent
discharge, the user shall monitor and record data for all the characteristics
listed in the monitoring requirements, after which the frequencies of analysis
listed in the monitoring requirements shall apply for the duration of each such
intermittent discharge. In no event shall the user be required to monitor and
record data more often than twice the frequencies listed in the monitoring
requirements.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-5) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.099 SIGNATORY REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   All applications, reports, or information submitted to the City or its
control authority shall be signed and certified by an authorized representative
of the user. These submittals shall be subject to the provision of 18 U.S.C. §
1001, relating to false statements and fraud and the provisions of Article 309
(c)(2) of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1319(c)(4), governing false
statements.
   (B)   Each submittal shall contain the following completed certification.
      “I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
and imprisonment for knowing violations.”
   Executed on the                 day of                                    
at
                                                                                                                       
[Signature]
                                                                       [Printed
or Typed Name]
                                                                                                                                                                            
[Title]
(Prior Code, § 12-8-5) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.100 NOTIFICATION OF BYPASS.
   (A)   Anticipated bypass. If the permittee knows in advance of the need for
a bypass, it shall submit prior oral and written notice to the control
authority, if possible at least ten days before the date of the bypass.
   (B)   Unanticipated bypass. The permittee shall submit notification of an
unanticipated bypass as required in §
51.045.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-5) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.101 NOTIFICATION OF SPILL OR SLUG LOADING.
   The permittee shall submit notification of a spill or slug loading to the
sewerage system as required in §
51.045.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-5) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.102 NOTIFICATION OF HAZARDOUS WASTE DISCHARGE.
   (A)   All users shall notify the control authority, the EPA Regional Waste
Management Division Director, and state hazardous waste authorities in writing
of any discharge into the POTW of a substance, which, if otherwise disposed of,
would be a hazardous waste under 40 C.F.R. Part 261. Such notification must
include:
      (1)   The name of the hazardous waste as set forth in 40 C.F.R. Part 261;
      (2)   The EPA hazardous waste number;
      (3)   The type of discharge (continuous, batch, or defined other); and
      (4)   Certification that the user has a program in place to reduce the
volume and toxicity of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has
determined to be economically practical.
   (B)   If the user discharges more than 100 kilograms (220 pounds) of such
waste per calendar month to the POTW, the notification shall also contain the
following information to the extent such information is known and readily
available to the user:
      (1)   An identification of the hazardous constituents contained in the
wastes;
      (2)   An estimation of the mass and concentration of such constituents in
the wastestream discharged during that calendar month; and
      (3)   An estimation of the mass of constituents in the wastestream
expected to be discharged during the following 12 months.
   (C)   All notifications must take place within 180 days of the effective
date of this chapter. Users who commence discharging after the effective date
of this chapter shall provide the notification no later than 180 days after the
discharge of the listed or characteristic hazardous waste. Any notification
under this section need be submitted only once for each hazardous waste
discharged.
   (D)   Those users who discharge more than 15 kilograms (33 pounds) of non-
acute hazardous wastes, as specified in 40 C.F.R. 261.30(d) and 261.33(e), or
any quantity of acute hazardous wastes, as specified in 40 C.F.R. 261.30(d) and
261.33(e), are required to submit a one-time notification as described in this
chapter.
   (E)   Subsequent months during which the user discharges more than such
quantities, as indicated in this chapter, of any hazardous waste do not require
additional notification.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-5) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.103 NOTIFICATION OF CHANGED DISCHARGE.
   All users shall promptly notify the control authority in advance of any
substantial change in volume or character of pollutants in their discharge,
including the listed or characteristic hazardous waste for which the user has
submitted initial notification under §
51.102.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-5) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.104 OTHER NONCOMPLIANCE NOTIFICATION.
   The user shall report all instances of noncompliance at the time monitoring
reports are submitted. The reports shall contain the information listed in §
51.045.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-5) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.115 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   To ensure that the City’s POTW, facilities, and treatment processes are
protected and are able to operate with the highest degree of efficiency, and to
protect the public health and environment, specific enforcement provisions must
be adopted to govern the discharges to the City’s system by users. Requirements
of this chapter are federally enforceable.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-6) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.116 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever the City finds that any user has violated or is violating
wastewater discharge permit terms, conditions, limitations, requirements, and
instructions, including any categorical pretreatment standards or any effluent
limits adopted by the City or required by state law, or any prohibition,
limitation of requirements contained within this chapter, the City may serve
upon such person a written notification of violation (NOV) stating the nature
of the violation. The NOV shall be served either personally or by certified
mail to the individual (by title) responsible for each type of response, return
receipt requested. The NOV may include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   An order for corrective action;
      (2)   A schedule to attain compliance;
      (3)   An order to show cause either in writing or in person;
      (4)   An order to cease discharge;
      (5)   A suspension or revocation of the user’s permit; and/or
      (6)   An order to respond in writing to the allegations.
   (B)   Additional orders and changes to a suspension or revocation may follow
the initial order at the discretion of the City or as additional information
becomes available. Within 30 days of the date of the notice, a plan for the
satisfactory correction thereof or appropriate response shall be submitted to
the City by the user.
   (C)   Upon review of a response to NOV, the City may accept the response as
complete and satisfactory, or incomplete and unsatisfactory.
   (D)   If the NOV is complete and satisfactory, the City shall consider the
issue regarding the NOV closed. The City will notify the user in writing
regarding the closure of the NOV. The closure of the NOV does not preclude
further enforcement action.
   (E)   If the NOV is incomplete and unsatisfactory, the City may, but not be
limited to, require any nonsubmitted or additional information, suspend or
revoke the user’s permit, order the user to cease discharge, and/or seek civil
penalties as they apply to the violations.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-6) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.117 NOTIFICATION OF PERMIT SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The City may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/or a
wastewater discharge permit when such suspension is necessary, in the opinion
of the City, in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents
or may present: an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or
welfare of persons, to the environment; causes harm to or passthrough of the
POTW; or causes the City to violate any condition of its permits.
   (B)   Any person notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment
service and/or the wastewater discharge permit shall immediately stop or
eliminate the discharge. In the event of a failure of the person to comply
voluntarily with the suspension order, the City shall take such steps as deemed
necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or
minimize damage to the POTW system or endangerment to any individuals. A
detailed written statement submitted by the user describing the causes of the
harmful discharge and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence shall
be submitted to the City within five days of the date of occurrence.
   (C)   The City shall, by written statement, reinstate the wastewater
discharge permit and/or the wastewater treatment service upon proof of the
elimination of the non-complying discharge. Costs incurred by the City in
suspending the permit and disconnecting the industrial sewer shall be paid by
the user before reinstatement of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-6) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.118 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The City may revoke a permit, in accordance with the procedures of
this chapter, upon finding that the permit holder has violated any provisions
of this chapter which includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Failure to factually report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of the user’s discharge;
      (2)   Failure to report significant changes in operations, or wastewater
constituents and characteristics that might impact the user’s discharge;
      (3)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose
of inspection or monitoring; or
      (4)   Violation of conditions of the permit.
   (B)   Any permit holder whose permit has been revoked shall immediately
cease all discharge of any industrial wastewater to the POTW.
   (C)   In the event of a failure of the user to comply voluntarily with the
notification of permit revocation, the City shall take such steps as necessary
to ensure compliance.
   (D)   Before any further discharge of industrial wastewater may be made by
the user, he or she must apply for and obtain a new permit for industrial
wastewater discharge, pay all charges that would be required upon initial
application, and pay all delinquent fees, charges, and such other sums as the
permit holder may owe to the City. Costs incurred by the City in revoking the
permit and disconnecting the industrial sewer shall be paid by the user before
issuance of a new permit.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-6) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.119 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   Notification of hearing. The City may order any user who causes or
allows an unauthorized discharge to enter the POTW to show cause before the
City Council why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. A notice
shall be served on the user specifying the time and place of a hearing to be
held by the City Council regarding the violation, the reasons why the action is
to be taken, the proposed enforcement action, and directing the user to show
cause before the City Council why the proposed enforcement action should not be
taken. The notice of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or
certified mail, return receipt requested, at least ten days before the hearing.
Service may be made on any authorized representative of the user.
   (B)   Acquisition of evidence. The City Council may itself conduct the
hearing and take the evidence, or may designate any of its members or any
officer or employee of the Public Works Department to:
      (1)   Issue in the name of the City Council notices of hearings
requesting the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of
evidence relevant to any matter involved in such hearings;
      (2)   Take the evidence; and
      (3)   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the City
Council for action thereon.
   (C)   Testimony. At any hearing held pursuant to this chapter, testimony
taken must be under oath and recorded stenographically. The transcript, so
recorded, will be made available to any member of the public or any party to
the hearing upon payment of the usual charges thereof.
   (D)   Orders. After the City Council has reviewed the evidence, it may issue
an order to the user responsible for the discharge directing that the user come
into compliance within a specified time. If the user does not come into
compliance within the time provided, the sewer service shall be discontinued
unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances
shall have been installed on existing treatment facilities, devices, or other
related appurtenances are properly operated. Further orders and directives as
are necessary and appropriate may be issued. A compliance order may not extend
the deadline for compliance established for a pretreatment standard or
requirement, nor does a compliance order relieve the user of liability for any
violation, including any continuing violation. Issuance of a compliance order
shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action
against the user.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-6) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.120 EMERGENCY SUSPENSIONS.
   The City may suspend immediately a user’s discharge, after informal notice
to the user, whenever such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or
threatened discharge which reasonably appears to present or cause an imminent
or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-6) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.121 LEGAL ACTION.
   If any user violates a pretreatment standard or pretreatment regulation
(including, but not limited to failure to submit a required report or failure
to allow City inspectors access to an industrial facility), or discharges
sewage, industrial wastes, or other wastes into the City’s wastewater disposal
system contrary to the provisions of this chapter, federal, or state
pretreatment requirements, or any order of the City, the City may commence an
action for appropriate legal and/or injunctive relief in the County Superior
Court.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-6) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Administrative penalties.
      (1)   Any user who is found to have violated any provision of this
chapter and/or any requirement of a notification of violation written and
issued in compliance with this chapter, and the order, rules, regulations, and
permits issued hereunder shall be assessed administrative penalties by the
control authority in the following amounts:
         (a)   Industrial users in an amount of at least $100 but not more than
$300 per day for each offense and/or violation; and
         (b)   Categorical users and significant industrial users in an amount
of at least $100 but not more than $300 per day for each offense and/or
violation.
      (2)   Any administrative penalty assessed may be appealed to the City
Council by filing a notice of appeal with the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall
set the hearing on the next available City Council meeting agenda. The notice
of appeal must be filed within ten days of the date of the notice of assessment
of penalty is mailed by the control authority, and failure to timely file a
notice of appeal shall make the penalty final.
      (3)   After completion of the hearing, the City Council shall affirm,
modify, or reverse the penalty. The decision of the City Council is final.
   (B)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   As referenced in 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f), any user who is found to
have violated an order of the City Council or who failed to comply with any
provision of this chapter and/or any requirement of a notification of violation
written and issued in compliance with this chapter, and the order, rules,
regulations, and permits issued hereunder, shall be assessed civil penalties in
at least the amount of $1,000 but no more than $25,000 per day for each offense
and/or violation. Each day on which a violation shall occur or continue shall
be deemed a separate and distinct offense. In addition to the penalties
provided in this chapter, the City may recover reasonable attorney’s fees,
court costs, court reporters’ fees, and other expenses of litigation by
appropriate suit at law against the person found to have violated this chapter
or the orders, rules, regulations, and permits issued hereunder.
      (2)   The civil penalties for nonsubmittal of reports, noncompliance with
the reporting and/or application requirements required by this chapter or
permit, or failure to complete an increment of progress of a compliance
schedule, shall be at least $1,000 for each day which the requirements are not
fulfilled.
   (C)   Criminal penalties. Any person who knowingly makes any false
statement, representation, or certification in any application, record, report,
plan, or other document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this
chapter or permit, or who falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders
inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under this chapter, shall,
upon conviction, be subject to a Class 2 criminal felony and be punished by a
fine of not more than $150,000 or by imprisonment for not more than one and
one-half years, or by both.
   (D)   Collection of fees. The amount of any fee or charge imposed by the
provisions of this chapter, including interest and penalty assessments, shall
constitute a lien against the property upon which the violation is located in
the same manner as other unpaid utility fees under this code. Any action in the
name of the City may be commenced in any court of competent jurisdiction for
the amount of any delinquent fees or charges and, if legal action is brought by
the City or its assignee to enforce collection of any amount charged and due
under this chapter, any judgment rendered in favor of the City shall include
costs of suit incurred by the City or its assignee, including reasonable
attorney’s fees.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-6) (Ord. 13-05, passed 3-25-2013)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Enforcement
Traffic Control
   
70.15   Obedience to traffic regulation
   
70.16   Use of roller skates and similar devices restricted
   
70.17   Traffic control devices
   
70.18   Authority to designate crosswalks, establish safety zones, and mark
traffic lanes
   
70.19   Authority to place and obedience to turning markers
   
70.20   Authority to place and obedience to restricted turn signs
   
70.21   Limitations on turning around
   
70.22   One-way streets and alleys
   
70.23   Regulation of traffic at intersections
   
70.24   Drivers to obey signs
   
70.25   Processions
Overweight/Oversize Vehicles
   
70.40   Regulations
   
70.41   Special permits for overweight and overheight vehicles
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions in A.R.S. §§ 28-101 et seq. shall be applicable to this
chapter unless a term is specifically defined in this chapter or unless the
context requires otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-1)
§ 70.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the City’s Police Department to provide for
the enforcement of the street traffic regulations of the City and all of the
state vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in the City, to make arrests
for traffic violations, to assist in the prosecution of those persons charged
with violations of law, to investigate accidents and to assist the City
Engineer in developing ways and means to improve traffic conditions and to
carry out duties specifically imposed upon the City’s Police Department by this
chapter.
   (B)   Any peace officer of the City may be authorized by the Police Chief to
perform any of the duties of the Police Department included in this chapter.
   (C)   The City’s Police Department shall keep a record of all violations of
the traffic laws of the City or of the state vehicle laws of which any person
has been charged. Such record shall be maintained for at least the most recent
five-year period.
   (D)   All forms for records of violations and notices shall be serially
numbered.
   (E)   All records and reports shall be public records.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-2)
TRAFFIC CONTROL
§ 70.15 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATION.
   It is unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform any
act required by this chapter. It is unlawful for any person to willfully fail
or refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of the Police Chief or
any Fire Department official.
(Prior Code, § 14-2-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.16 USE OF ROLLER SKATES AND SIMILAR DEVICES RESTRICTED.
   It is unlawful for any person upon roller skates or riding any battery-
operated toy vehicle or similar device to go upon any roadway except while
crossing a street in a crosswalk, and when crossing, such person shall be
granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable
to pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 14-2-2) (Ord. 11-14, passed 10-10-2011) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The Police Chief may authorize the erection of temporary traffic
control devices, signs, and signals when necessary to preserve the public
safety in an emergency.
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any traffic
control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the traffic
regulations of the City unless otherwise directed by the Police Chief, subject
to the exceptions granted in this chapter or by state law.
(Prior Code, § 14-2-3)
§ 70.18 AUTHORITY TO DESIGNATE CROSSWALKS, ESTABLISH SAFETY ZONES, AND MARK
TRAFFIC LANES.
   The City Manager is hereby authorized upon approval by the Council:
   (A)   To designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks, or lines
upon the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where in his or
her opinion there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and
at such other places as he or she may deem necessary;
   (B)   To establish safety zones of such kind and character at such places as
he or she may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians; and
   (C)   To mark lanes for traffic on street pavements at such places as he or
she may deem advisable, consistent with the traffic laws of the City.
(Prior Code, § 14-2-4)
§ 70.19 AUTHORITY TO PLACE AND OBEDIENCE TO TURNING MARKERS.
   (A)   The Manager is authorized to have placed markers, buttons, or signs
within or adjacent to intersections indicating the course to be traveled by
vehicles turning at such intersections, and such course to be traveled as so
indicated may conform to or be other than as prescribed by law.
   (B)   When authorized markers, buttons, or other indications are placed
within an intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning
thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of such
indications.
(Prior Code, § 14-2-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 AUTHORITY TO PLACE AND OBEDIENCE TO RESTRICTED TURN SIGNS.
   (A)   The Manager, on approval by the Council, is hereby authorized to
determine those intersections at which drivers of vehicles shall not make a
right, left, or U-turn, and shall have placed proper signs at such
intersections. The making of such turns may be prohibited between certain hours
of any day and permitted at other hours, in which event the same shall be
plainly indicated on the signs or such signs may be removed when such turns are
permitted.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right, left,
or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of
any such sign.
(Prior Code, § 14-2-6)
§ 70.21 LIMITATIONS ON TURNING AROUND.
   No driver of any vehicle shall proceed across the centerline of a street
into the other lane of traffic between intersections, except to turn into a
private driveway or other right-of-way on any street or portion thereof posted
with signs prohibiting such turns. On all unposted streets or portion thereof
in the City, the driver of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle as to
proceed across the centerline of the street, unless such movement can be made
in safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(Prior Code, § 14-2-7) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   The Council shall by resolution designate any streets or alleys which
are to be limited to one-way traffic.
   (B)   When any resolution of the Council designates any one-way street or
alley, the City Manager shall have placed and maintained signs giving notice
thereof, and no such regulation shall be effective
unless such signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful
traffic movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of
traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 14-2-8)
§ 70.23 REGULATION OF TRAFFIC AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The Council shall by resolution designate through streets,
intersections where stops are required, and intersections where vehicles shall
yield the right-of-way.
   (B)   When any resolution of the Council shall designate any through street
or intersection where vehicles are to stop or yield the right-of-way, the
Manager shall have erected and maintained the appropriate signs at every
location where a vehicle must stop or yield the right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 14-2-9)
§ 70.24 DRIVERS TO OBEY SIGNS.
   Whenever traffic signs are erected as provided in this chapter, every driver
of a vehicle shall obey such signs unless directed to proceed by the Police
Chief or a traffic control signal. No driver shall drive upon or through any
private property such as an oil station, vacant lot, or similar property to
avoid disobedience to any regulations included in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 14-2-10) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.25 PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   No procession or parade, except funeral processions, shall be held
without first securing approval by the Manager.
   (B)   A funeral procession composed of a procession of vehicles shall be
identified by such methods as may be determined and designated by the Police
Chief.
   (C)   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicle comprising a
funeral or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such
vehicles are conspicuously designated.
   (D)   Each driver in a funeral or other processional shall drive as near to
the right-hand edge of the roadway as practical and shall follow the vehicle
ahead as close as is practical and safe.
   (E)   No parade will be approved by the City that requires the use of State
Route 87/287, also known as Arizona Boulevard.
(Prior Code, § 14-2-11) (Ord. 01-15, passed 11-13-2001; Ord. 13-16, passed 10-
14-2013) Penalty, see §
70.99
OVERWEIGHT/OVERSIZE VEHICLES
§ 70.40 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Overweight vehicles. The maximum gross weight of vehicles operated
upon City streets shall not exceed the gross weights proscribed in the
appropriate table of weights applicable to highways under the jurisdiction of
the state by A.R.S. § 28-1100.
   (B)   Oversize vehicles. The maximum height and length of vehicles operated
upon City streets shall not exceed the height and length prescribed for
highways under the jurisdiction of the state by A.R.S. §§ 28-1094 and 28-1095.
   (C)   Exceptions. The prohibitions of section (A) and (B) above shall not
apply to vehicles operating pursuant to a special permit issued pursuant to a
special permit issued pursuant to §
70.41.
(Prior Code, § 14-5-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.41 SPECIAL PERMITS FOR OVERWEIGHT AND OVERHEIGHT VEHICLES.
   (A)   A special permit shall be required to move any oversize or overweight
vehicle, equipment, building, or material on City streets.
   (B)   The City Police Chief shall designate the City employee who will issue
the special permit upon payment in full of the fees specified in section (C)
below.
   (C)   A fee shall be assessed for each permit issued in accordance with the
provisions of this section for excess size. A fee shall be assessed for each
permit issued in accordance with the provisions of this section for excess
weight. If a permit is requested for a motor vehicle which is in excess of both
size and weight, the fees applicable for an excess weight permit shall be
assessed.
   (D)   No fees shall be assessed for any permit issued in accordance with
this section for the movement of vehicles or combination of vehicles owned by
or subject to a special permit issued by the United States government, the
state, any county, city, or town.
   (E)   Such permit shall be carried in the vehicle or combination of vehicles
to which it refers and shall be open to inspection by any police officer or
authorized agent of any authority granting the permit, and no person or
corporation or other business entity shall violate any of the terms or
conditions of the special permit.
(Prior Code, § 14-5-2)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violations of §
70.02 are civil traffic violations unless otherwise designated and shall be
prosecuted as provided in
Chapter 11 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-3)
   (C)   (1)   A person who violates any of the provisions of §§
70.40 or
70.41 is subject to a civil sanction unless the ordinance defining the offense
provides for a different classification. When the driver is not the owner of
the vehicle but is so operating, driving, or moving the same with the express
or implied permission of the owner, then the driver and the owner shall be
subject to any penalty authorized by this section.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the provision of section (C)(3) below, a conviction
for a violation of §
70.40 in which the weight is 2,501 pounds or greater is a misdemeanor.
      (3)   The owner and the driver of a vehicle which violates any provision
of §
70.40 is subject to a civil sanction. A second violation of said section within
six months of the preceding conviction is a Class 3 misdemeanor. A third
violation of said section within one year is a Class 2 misdemeanor. In addition
to any sanction, penalty, or term of imprisonment which a court may impose, a
court shall fine a person the amount which is set forth in the following table.
Excess Weight (Pounds) The Minimum Fine or Civil Sanction (Dollars)
                       Class 3 Class 2 Class 1
Excess Weight (Pounds) The Minimum Fine or Civil Sanction (Dollars)
                       Class 3 Class 2 Class 1
1,001 to 1,250         50      75      100
1,251 to 1,500         100     150     200
1,501 to 2,000         150     225     300
2,001 to 2,500         200     300     400
2,501 to 3,000         200     300     500
3,001 to 3,500                         600
3,501 to 4,000                         660
4,001 to 4,500                         720
4,501 to 5,000                         760
5,001 to 5,500                         800
5,501 to 6,000                         840
6,001 to 6,500                         880
6,501 to 7,000                         920
7,001 to 7,500                         960
7,501 to 8,000                         1,000
 
      (4)   If any officer finds that the person has violated only the axle
weight limitation and not the total weight limitation, the officer shall
request the driver to reload the vehicle to comply with the axle weight
limitation and if the driver so complies he or she shall not be subject to
arrest or fine. If the driver does not comply with the request of the officer
to reload, the driver shall be subject to a civil sanction.
(Prior Code, § 14-5-3)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Method of parking
   
71.02   Blocking traffic
   
71.03   Authority to erect signs restricting parking
   
71.04   Parking vehicles on sidewalks
   
71.05   Inoperable or disabled vehicles
   
71.06   Parking areas reserved for the physically disabled
   
71.07   Parking on residential streets
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Traffic regulations, see
Chapter 70
§ 71.01 METHOD OF PARKING.
   Except where angle parking is authorized by the Council and street markings
indicate such is permissible, every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway
where there are adjacent curbs shall be so stopped or parked with the right-
hand wheels of such vehicle parallel to and within 18 inches of the right-hand
curb.
(Prior Code, § 14-3-1)
§ 71.02 BLOCKING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to stop, stand, or park any motor
vehicle or other vehicle upon a street in the City in such a manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than 20 feet of the width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, except that a person may
stop temporarily, in the actual loading or unloading of passengers, or, when
necessary, in the observance of traffic signs or signals of the Police Chief.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle, or other
vehicle, within an alley or entrance to a private driveway except for the
loading or unloading of materials, and not then unless such loading or
unloading can be accomplished without blocking the alley to the free movement
of vehicular traffic.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any vehicle and trailer having a wheel base or
combined wheel base of more than 160 inches to be backed to the curb of any
street in the business district between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 14-3-2) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 AUTHORITY TO ERECT SIGNS RESTRICTING PARKING.
   The Manager may erect signs requiring parking at an angle to the curb,
allowing parking on the left-hand curb on one-way streets, notifying drivers
that parking is prohibited, and restricting parking in any way that may be
necessary. No parking restrictions shall become effective until such restricted
parking area is specifically designated by the Manager and signs have been
erected as authorized in this section. It is unlawful for any person to stop or
stand a vehicle in disobedience to such parking restrictions.
(Prior Code, § 14-3-3) (Ord. 11-13, passed 7-11-2011) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 PARKING VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for any person to park any vehicle, whether in usable
condition or not, or for an owner to permit his or her vehicle to be parked
upon any sidewalk in the City.
(Prior Code, § 14-3-4) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 INOPERABLE OR DISABLED VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for the owner or any person having control over a motor
vehicle which is inoperable or disabled to allow said motor vehicle to remain
parked or located upon the paved or unpaved portion of any street or alley
within the City for a period of time in excess of 72 hours after being
requested, in writing, to remove said motor vehicle from such location by the
City. In the event that the owner or person having control of said vehicle
cannot be readily located within the City, then the City may cause said vehicle
to be removed from the public right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 14-3-5) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 PARKING AREAS RESERVED FOR THE PHYSICALLY DISABLED.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in a parking space on
public or private property set aside and identified for use only by persons
with physical disabilities unless the vehicle has displayed thereon a
distinguishing insignia as provided in A.R.S. Title 28, Chapter 6, § 28-873.01,
or numbered plates bearing the international wheelchair symbol issued pursuant
to A.R.S. Title 28, Chapter 3, § 28-308.01.
   (B)   Section (A) above shall apply to only those parking spaces that are
identified with a standard sign as approved or designated by the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 14-3-7) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 PARKING ON RESIDENTIAL STREETS.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating
in excess of 12,000 pounds, or a tractor, semi-truck, recreational vehicle,
bus, boat, or any trailer designed to be towed by a motor vehicle, on a street
in a residentially zoned area, with the following exceptions for such vehicles:
   (A)   Vehicles providing delivery or services within a residential area may
park or stop for the limited purpose of loading or unloading or providing the
service;
   (B)   Vehicles owned by a person residing in the residential area may park
or stop the vehicle for the purpose of loading or unloading or for a period of
up to two hours for any other purpose not otherwise prohibited by law;
   (C)   Emergency vehicles when responding to a call for service or providing
necessary emergency services; and
   (D)   Vehicles specifically permitted to park pursuant to state law, if any.
(Ord. 21-15, passed 8-9-2021)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating §
71.06(A) shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not less that $25
and/or five days in jail, nor more than $100 and/or 20 days in jail.
(Prior Code, § 14-3-6)
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Application of traffic laws
   
72.03   Responsibility of parents, guardians, and custodians
   
72.04   Prohibited areas of operation
   
72.05   General operating restrictions
   
72.06   Operating restrictions on roadway
   
72.07   Required safety equipment
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTORIZED PLAY VEHICLE. A coaster, scooter, any other alternatively fueled
device (excluding battery operated toy carts designed for children under the
age of eight years to ride in or on) or other motorized vehicle that is self-
propelled by a motor or engine and which is not otherwise defined in A.R.S.
Title 28, as a “motor vehicle”, “motor-driven cycle”, or “motorized
wheelchair”.
   MOTORIZED SKATEBOARD. A self-propelled device which has a motor or engine, a
deck on which a person may ride by standing upright only, and has at least two
wheels in contact with the ground and which is not otherwise defined in A.R.S.
Title 28, as amended, as a “motor vehicle”, “motor-driven cycle”, or “motorized
wheelchair”.
   OPERATOR. A person who operates or is in actual physical control of
motorized play vehicle or a motorized skateboard upon a public roadway,
sidewalk, right-of-way, park bicycle path, or any other public property used
for the operation of motor vehicles.
   OWNER. A person who holds the legal title to a motorized play vehicle or
motorized skateboard or any person who is a lessee, conditional vendee, or
mortgagor of a motorized play vehicle or motorized skateboard with a right to
immediate possession.
(Prior Code, § 14-6-1) (Ord. 11-14, passed 10-10-2011)
§ 72.02 APPLICATION OF TRAFFIC LAWS.
   (A)   All traffic laws shall apply to persons riding motorized play vehicles
and motorized skateboards. Every person operating a motorized play vehicle or
motorized skateboard upon a roadway shall be granted all of the rights and
shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by
the laws of this state declaring rules of the road applicable to the vehicles,
or by the traffic regulations in this chapter, except as to those provisions
which by their nature can have no application.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed to require the licensing or
registration of motorized play vehicles or motorized skateboards, or the
carrying of insurance covering accidents involving motorized play vehicles or
motorized skateboards.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person operating a motorized play vehicle or
motorized skateboard not to obey the instructions of official traffic control
signals, signs, and other traffic direction devices that are applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 14-6-2) (Ord. 11-14, passed 10-10-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.03 RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS, GUARDIANS, AND CUSTODIANS.
   (A)   No parent, guardian, or custodian of a minor shall authorize or
knowingly permit the minor to violate this chapter.
   (B)   If a fine is imposed upon a minor found to be in violation of this
chapter, the parents or legal guardian having custody or control of the minor
shall be jointly and severally liable with the minor for payment of any fine,
whether or not the parents or guardian knew of, or anticipated, a violation of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 14-6-3) (Ord. 11-14, passed 10-10-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.04 PROHIBITED AREAS OF OPERATION.
   No person shall operate a motorized play vehicle or motorized skateboard:
   (A)   On any sidewalk, except for use in crossing such sidewalk by the most
direct route to gain access to any public or private road or driveway;
   (B)   In any City parking structure or City park, except for use on public
roadways within the park, or designated hike/bike trails;
   (C)   On any public property that has been posted or designated by the owner
of such property as an area prohibiting the use of skateboards;
   (D)   On any public roadway consisting of a total of four or more marked
traffic lanes, or having an established speed limit of greater than 25 mph; or
   (E)   On any private property of another, or any public property which is
not held open to the public for vehicle use, without the written permission of
the owner, the person entitled to immediate possession of the property, or the
authorized agent of either.
(Prior Code, § 14-6-4) (Ord. 11-14, passed 10-10-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.05 GENERAL OPERATING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No child under the age of 13 shall operate a motorized play vehicle or
motorized skateboard without direct adult supervision.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motorized play vehicle or motorized
skateboard in excess of the speed that is reasonable and prudent under existing
circumstances, or the lawfully posted limit, whichever is lower.
   (C)   The operator of a motorized play vehicle or motorized skateboard,
approaching a sidewalk, bicycle path, bicycle lane, or multi-use path in order
to cross such, shall yield the right-of-way to all other users.
   (D)   No operator of a motorized play vehicle or motorized skateboard shall
allow passengers when the motorized play vehicle or motorized skateboard is in
motion.
   (E)   No person operating or riding upon a motorized play vehicle or
motorized skateboard shall attach themselves or the motorized play vehicle or
motorized skateboard in any manner to any other vehicle.
   (F)   No person shall operate a motorized play vehicle or motorized
skateboard while carrying any package, bundle, or article which prevents the
operator from keeping both hands on the steering mechanism at all times.
   (G)   No person, other than the owner, shall operate a motorized play
vehicle or motorized skateboard without permission of the owner.
   (H)   No person shall operate a motorized play vehicle or motorized
skateboard that has been structurally altered from the original manufacturer’s
design, unless such structural alteration reduces the noise level emitted from
the motorized play vehicle or motorized skateboard below the noise level
emitted by the original manufacturer’s design.
   (I)   No person shall operate a motorized play vehicle or motorized
skateboard in a crosswalk.
   (J)   No person shall operate a motorized play vehicle or motorized
skateboard while towing or pulling another person or object.
(Prior Code, § 14-6-5) (Ord. 11-14, passed 10-10-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.06 OPERATING RESTRICTIONS ON ROADWAY.
   (A)   A person operating a motorized play vehicle or motorized skateboard on
a roadway at less than the normal speed of traffic, at the time and place and
under the then-existing conditions, shall ride as close as practicable to the
right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except under the following conditions
and when the movement can be made in safety:
      (1)   If overtaking and passing a bicycle or vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
      (2)   If preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private
roadway or driveway;
      (3)   If reasonably necessary to avoid hazardous conditions ahead in the
roadway; or
      (4)   If the lane in which the person is operating the motorized play
vehicle or motorized skateboard is too narrow for a motorized play vehicle or
motorized skateboard and a bicycle or another vehicle to travel safely side by
side within the lane.
   (B)   No operator of a motorized play vehicle or motorized skateboard shall
transport extra fuel in a separate container or alter the fuel reservoir from
the original manufacturer’s design. This includes the prohibition of physically
attaching fuel packs or containers to the operator’s person.
   (C)   Persons operating motorized play vehicles or motorized skateboards on
the roadway shall not ride more than two abreast.
   (D)   Motorized play vehicles or motorized skateboards may only be operated
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 14-6-6) (Ord. 11-14, passed 10-10-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.07 REQUIRED SAFETY EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorized play vehicle or a motorized
skateboard without a head lamp emitting a beam and a red rear reflector anytime
from one-half of an hour prior to sunset and one- half of an hour after
sunrise, or any other time when there is not sufficient light to render clearly
identifiable objects, persons, or vehicles on the roadway.
      (1)   A head lamp shall emit a white light and be visible from the front
at a distance no less than 500 feet.
      (2)   A rear red reflector shall be visible when illuminated by a vehicle
head lamp from a distance of not less than 300 feet.
      (3)   A rear red lamp visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may
be used in addition to the rear red reflector.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motorized play vehicle or motorized
skateboard unless it is equipped with a brake which enables the operator to
make a braked wheel(s) skid on pavement.
   (C)   Any operator of a motorized play vehicle or motorized skateboard under
the age of 18 years being operated on a roadway shall at all times wear a full-
face protective helmet on his or her head in an appropriate and safely secured
manner. The helmet should be Department of Transportation approved and
designated “full-face protection” by the manufacturer.
   (D)   The operator of a motorized play vehicle or motorized skateboard shall
wear at all times protective glasses or goggles or a transparent face shield of
a type approved for motorcycle or motor-driven cycle use.
   (E)   No person shall operate a motorized play vehicle or motorized
skateboard without wearing footwear. The footwear must have a sole and
completely cover the feet and toes.
(Prior Code, § 14-6-7) (Ord. 11-14, passed 10-10-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
93.   MARIJUANA USE
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Regulations
   
90.01   Dangerous animals
   
90.02   Killing dangerous animals
   
90.03   Livestock or fowl
   
90.04   Adult male poultry and bees
   
90.05   Pot-bellied pigs
   
90.06   Animals that bite people
   
90.07   Interference with Humane Officer
Dogs and Cats
   
90.20   Definitions
   
90.21   Licenses and tags generally
   
90.22   Vaccination required
   
90.23   Running at large
   
90.24   Impoundment
   
90.25   Dogs that bite people
   
90.26   County regulations adopted
   
90.27   Limitations of numbers of dogs or cats
   
90.28   Barking dogs
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 90.01 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful to permit any dangerous, vicious animal of any kind to run at
large within the City and such animals shall be immediately impounded.
Exhibitions or parades of animals which are ferae naturae in the eyes of the
law may be conducted only upon securing a permit from the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.02 KILLING DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   The Humane Officer and members of the Police Department are authorized to
kill any dangerous animals of any kind when it is necessary for the protection
of any person or property.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2)
§ 90.03 LIVESTOCK OR FOWL.
   Any person who keeps or causes to be kept any horses, mules, cattle, burros,
goats, sheep, or other livestock or fowl within the corporate limits of the
City shall keep such livestock or fowl in a pen or similar enclosure to prevent
their roaming at large. No horse, cow, sheep, goat, burro, mule, or other
livestock shall be kept or maintained on any lot or parcel of land within the
City consisting of less than 10,000 square feet for each animal and, in
addition, no such animal shall be allowed within 50 feet of any residence other
than that of the owner of such animal. Any such livestock or fowl running at
large may be impounded. It is unlawful to cause or allow any stable or place
where any animal is or may be kept to become unclean or unwholesome.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.04 ADULT MALE POULTRY AND BEES.
   Notwithstanding §
90.03, it shall be unlawful to keep, maintain, and hold any swine, adult male
poultry, or bees with the City, except that adult male poultry or fowl may be
kept upon any lot or parcel of land under common ownership or control having at
least 21,780 square feet (one-half acre of gross area) and providing that said
male poultry shall be kept and maintained in accordance with all of the
provisions of this subchapter and shall be at all times penned or confined and
not allowed to run at large.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.05 POT-BELLIED PIGS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding §
90.04, a person may maintain not more than two pot-bellied pigs on
residentially zoned property as pets if they are registered purebred miniature
Vietnamese pot-bellied pigs or other similar purebred miniature pot-bellied
pigs that are registered with the North American Pot-Bellied Pig Association
and they are not being kept for commercial breeding purposes.
   (B)   All of the provisions of this subchapter, as applicable for dogs and
cats concerning licensing, tags, vaccination, running at large, impoundment,
and biting, shall be applicable to any pot- bellied pigs maintained within the
City.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.06 ANIMALS THAT BITE PEOPLE.
   (A)   Whenever any animal, except a dog, bites a person, the person so
bitten and the owner of the animal shall immediately notify the Humane Officer,
which shall cause an examination of the animal to be made by a duly licensed
physician or a duly licensed veterinarian, and shall order the animal held on
the owner’s premises or shall have it impounded as long as necessary for a
complete examination. The confinement of livestock is regulated by the state’s
Livestock Sanitary Board.
   (B)   If the animal is a caged rodent, it may be confined and quarantined at
the home of the owner or where it is harbored or maintained for the required
period of time with the consent of and in the manner prescribed by the Humane
Officer. Any wild animal which bites any person may be killed and submitted to
the Humane Officer or his or her deputies for transmission to an appropriate
diagnostic laboratory. If it is determined that the animal is infected with
rabies or other dangerous, contagious, and infectious disease, it shall be the
duty of the Humane Officer to destroy such animal in as humane a manner as is
reasonably possible.
   (C)   If at the end of the quarantine or impoundment, a veterinarian is
convinced that the animal is free from such diseases, the animal shall be
released. If the animal dies during the period of quarantine or impoundment,
its head shall be sent to the state’s Department of Health for examination.
(Prior Code, § 7-3)
§ 90.07 INTERFERENCE WITH HUMANE OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for a person having the custody, care, or control of an
animal to fail or refuse to permit the Humane Officer to inspect the animal and
the premises on which it is kept to determine if any provision of this chapter
is being violated, or to interfere in any way with the Humane Officer in the
performance of his or her duties.
(Prior Code, § 7-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
DOGS AND CATS
§ 90.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any establishment authorized by the City for the
confinement, maintenance, safekeeping, and control of animals that come into
the custody of the City.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, not under the control of the owner,
or other persons acting for the owner.
   COLLAR. A band, chain, harness, or suitable device worn around the neck of a
dog to which a license may be fixed.
   DOG. A member of the canis familiaris family.
   HUMANE OFFICER. The City Humane Officer, and is synonymous with ANIMAL
CONTROL OFFICER and includes his or her authorized representative and police
officers. The HUMANE OFFICER’S primary duty shall be the enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter.
   OWNER. Any person owning, keeping, possessing, harboring, or maintaining a
dog.
   VACCINATION. An anti-rabies vaccination using a type of vaccine approved by
the state veterinarian.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1)
§ 90.21 LICENSES AND TAGS GENERALLY.
   (A)   All dogs kept, harbored, or maintained in the City must be licensed
and registered if over four months of age. Dog licenses shall be issued by the
Clerk, upon payment of a license fee of $7, which license shall expire January
1 of each year. No license fee shall be prorated or refunded, nor shall the dog
tags issued herewith be transferable. The owner shall state, at the time
application is made for such license, his or her name and address, the name,
breed, color, and sex of each dog owned or kept by him or her.
   (B)   The Clerk shall cause a notice of necessity to license and register
all dogs to be published in the City newspaper prior to February 1 each year. A
penalty of not to exceed $2 shall be added to the license fee in the event that
the license is obtained after February 1 of each year. This penalty should not
be assessed against applicants who furnish adequate proof that the dog has been
licensed is not more than four months old, or has been in their possession in
the City less than 60 days.
   (C)   Upon the payment of the license fee, the Clerk shall execute a receipt
in duplicate. The receipt shall contain the name and address of the owner of
the dog, the date of the vaccination of the dog against rabies, the type of
rabies vaccine used, the year and series number of the metal dog tag issued,
the description of the dog, including the age, name, breed, age, color, and
sex. The Clerk shall deliver the original receipt to the person who pays the
fee and retain the duplicate. The Clerk shall obtain a sufficient number of
metal dog tags which shall be inscribed with the name of the City, the number
of the license, and the year for which it is valid, and shall deliver one such
dog tag to the person when the license fee is paid.
   (D)   Each dog licensed under the terms of this subchapter shall receive,
the time of licensing, a tag which shall be inscribed the name of the City, the
number of the license, and the year in which it expires. The tag shall be
attached to a collar or harness which shall be worn by the dog at all times
except as otherwise provided in this subchapter. Whenever a dog tag is lost, a
duplicate tag shall be issued upon application by the owner and payment of $1
fee to the Clerk.
   (E)   Any person who counterfeits or attempts to counterfeit an official dog
tag or removes such tag from any dog for the purpose of willful and malicious
mischief or places a dog tag upon a dog unless the tag was issued to that dog
is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (F)   Whenever the ownership of a dog has been changed, the new owner must
secure a new license.
   (G)   Dogs while being used for hunting, dogs while being exhibited at
American Kennel Club approved shows, or dogs while engaged in races approved by
the state’s Racing Commission, and such dogs while being transported to and
from such events, need not wear a collar or harness with valid license
attached; provided that they are properly vaccinated and licensed.
   (H)   The Humane Officer shall apprehend and impound any dog found without a
current valid license tag.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.22 VACCINATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Before a license is issued for any dog, the owner must present a
vaccination certified signed by a veterinarian.
   (B)   If a dog is impounded and found to be unvaccinated, the Humane Officer
shall not release the dog until he or she has been assured it will be
vaccinated by the owner.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-3)
§ 90.23 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person owning, keeping, possessing, or harboring or maintaining a
dog or cat shall allow such a dog or cat to be at large.
   (B)   A dog or cat is not deemed to be at large:
      (1)   While such dog is actively engaged in dog obedience training,
accompanied by and under the control of his or her owner and trainer;
      (2)   While such dog is being used for hunting purposes;
      (3)   While such dog is being exhibited at an American Kennel Club
approved show;
      (4)   While such dog is engaged in races approved by the state’s Racing
Commission;
      (5)   While such dog is upon a leash not exceeding six feet in length and
in the hands of a person capable of controlling such dog; or
      (6)   While such dog is actually confined in an enclosed area or securely
tied in the owner’s premises.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.24 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   The Humane Officer shall apprehend and impound any dog or cat found
running at large or any dog or cat that is found kept without food, water, or
proper care. Upon impounding any animal, he or she shall immediately give the
owner notice of the impoundment either personally or by mail at his or her last
known address, if known or ascertainable by reasonable investigation.
   (B)   Any impounded dog may be redeemed from the animal shelter by the owner
proving legal right to possession and by payment to the Clerk the license fee
for the current year, presentation of a current valid certificate of
vaccination against rabies, and payment of $7 as an impoundment fee and $7 per
day for each day the dog has been confined in the animal shelter as the cost of
maintenance. Licensed dogs shall be released upon presentation of the correct
dog tag and the receipt for the dog license for the current year and payment to
the Clerk of the impoundment fee and maintenance costs as provided above.
   (C)   Any dog which is not claimed by the owner within a 72-hour period
provided for herein shall be sold or destroyed. Any dog may be sold to anyone
desiring to purchase the dog for the amount provided for the redemption of
stray dogs by their owners.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-5)
§ 90.25 DOGS THAT BITE PEOPLE.
   (A)   Whenever a dog bites any person, the incident shall be reported to the
City Humane Officer immediately by any person having direct knowledge.
   (B)   Any dog unlicensed or unvaccinated that bites any person shall be
quarantined and impounded or, at the request of and at the expense of the
owner, placed in a veterinarian hospital for a period of not less than seven
days. The owner of any dog that has bitten a person may voluntarily deliver the
dog to the Humane Officer at the animal shelter; otherwise, there shall be an
assessment against the owner if the Humane Officer must pick up the dog. If the
dog is impounded at the animal shelter for observation as the result of a dog
bite incident, there shall be a per day charge for board. A dog properly
licensed and vaccinated pursuant to §§
90.21 and
90.22 that bites any person may be quarantined at the house of the owner or
wherever the dog is maintained with the consent of, and in the manner
prescribed by, the Humane Officer.
   (C)   If it is determined that the dog is infected with rabies or other
dangerous, contagious, and infectious disease, it shall be the duty of the
Humane Officer to destroy such dog in as humane a manner as it is reasonably
possible. If at the end of the quarantine or impoundment a veterinarian is
convinced that the dog is free from such diseases, the dog shall be released.
If the dog dies during the period of quarantine or impoundment, its head shall
be sent to the state’s Department of Health for examination.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-6)
§ 90.26 COUNTY REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   The certain document entitled “Pinal County Rabies and Animal Control
Ordinance No. 050510-ACC”, less the kennel provisions, is hereby adopted, and
made a part of this subchapter the same as though said document was
specifically set forth in full herein, and at least three copies of said
documents shall be filed in the office of the Clerk and kept available for
public use and inspection, and said document shall take precedence and govern
if there is any conflict with any other provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-7) (Ord. 03-10, passed 8-18-2003; Ord. 10-13, passed 7-26-
2010)
§ 90.27 LIMITATIONS OF NUMBERS OF DOGS OR CATS.
   It is unlawful for the owner(s), tenant(s), or any person(s) occupying or
controlling residentially zoned property consisting of one or more contiguous
lots to keep or maintain more than four dogs or four cats, or combinations
thereof totaling four, on said lot or lots if dogs or cats are over eight weeks
of age.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.28 BARKING DOGS.
   It is unlawful for an owner to keep or harbor, within the City, any dog or
other animal which barks, howls, or makes other aggravating noises which
unreasonably disturbs the peace and quiet of the neighborhood.
(Prior Code, § 7-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 91: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
Section
Regulation of Litter
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Littering on public property
   
91.03   Posting notices
   
91.04   Distribution of handbills
   
91.05   Owner to maintain premises
   
91.06   Procedure to compel removal of litter
   
91.07   Notice to remove
   
91.08   Service of notice
   
91.09   Appeal to Council
   
91.10   Removal by the City
   
91.11   Lien for removal
   
91.12   Placement of debris
   
91.13   Health hazards
   
91.14   Adoption of County Sanitary Code
Junk Motor Vehicles
   
91.25   Definitions
   
91.26   Storing, parking, or leaving junk motor vehicles on private property
prohibited
   
91.27   Notice to remove
   
91.28   Effective date of enforcement
REGULATION OF LITTER
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIRCRAFT. Any contrivance now known or hereafter invented, used, or
designated for aerial navigation or for flight in the air. The word AIRCRAFT
shall include helicopters and lighter-than-air dirigibles and balloons, free
flying, or tethered.
   AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLES. A litter storage and collection receptacle.
   COMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, booklet, paper, or any other printed or
otherwise reproduced original and copies of any matter of literature:
      (1)   Which advertises for sale any merchandise, product, commodity, or
thing;
      (2)   Which directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment or other activity for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales;
      (3)   Which directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition, or event of any kind, for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit. The terms of this clause
shall not apply where an admission fee is charged or a collection is taken up
for the purpose of defraying the expenses incident to such meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition, or event of any kind, when either the same is held,
given, or takes place in connection with the dissemination of information which
is not restricted under the ordinary rules of decency, good morals, public
peace, safety, and good order. Nothing contained in this clause shall be deemed
to authorize the holding, giving, or taking place of any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition, or event of any kind without a license, where such
license is or may be required by law of this state or under this code;
      (4)   Which, while containing reading matter other than advertising
matter, is predominately and essentially an advertisement and is distributed or
circulated for advertising purposes or for private benefit and gain for any
person so engaged as advertiser or distributor; or
      (5)   Any newspaper or similar publication containing substantial amounts
of matter advertising articles or things for sale or any businesses or services
for profit which newspaper or similar publication is in normal course
distributed without charge and without subscription therefor by the recipients.
   LITTER. Any rubbish, trash, weeds, filth, and debris which shall constitute
a hazard to public health and safety and shall include all putrescible and
nonputrescible solid wastes, including garbage, trash, ashes, street cleanings,
dead animals, abandoned automobiles, glass, and solid market and industrial
wastes; any deposits, accumulation, pile, or heap of brush, grass, debris,
weeds, cans, cloth, paper, wood, rubbish, or other unsightly or unsanitary
matter of any kind whatsoever; and any growth of weeds, brush, grass, or other
vegetable growth to a height of over six inches.
   NEWSPAPER. Any newspaper of general circulation as defined by general law,
any newspaper duly entered with the Post Office Department of the United States
in accordance with the federal statutes or regulations, any newspaper filed and
recorded with any recording officer as provided by general law, and in addition
thereto, shall mean and include any newspaper, periodical, or current magazine
regularly published with not less than for issues per year and sold to the
public.
   NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper, booklet, or
any other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of
literature not included in the definitions herein of a commercial handbill or
newspaper.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. Any dwelling, house, building, or other structure,
designated or used wholly or in part for private residential purposes, whether
inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and shall
include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, or vestibules
belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building, or other
structures.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys, or other
public ways, and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds, and
buildings.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-1)
§ 91.02 LITTERING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit or be responsible
for the accumulation of litter in or upon any street, sidewalk, or other public
place, except in public receptacles or in authorized private receptacles for
collection. Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized
private receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being
carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk, or other public
place or upon private property.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to sweep into or deposit in any gutter,
street, or other public place within the City the accumulation of litter from
any building or lot or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person in an aircraft to throw out, drop, or
deposit any litter or handbills within the City.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person to drive or move any truck or other
vehicle within the City unless said truck is so constructed, loaded, or covered
to prevent any loaded contents or litter from being blown or deposited
therefrom upon any public street, alley, public place, or private premises.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.03 POSTING NOTICES.
   It is unlawful for any person to post or affix any notice, poster, or other
paper or device, calculated to attract the attention of the public to any lamp
post, public utility pole, shade tree, or upon any public structure or
building, except as may be authorized or required by law, or upon any private
structure or building, without the consent of the owner or person in control
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04 DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS.
   (A)   It is unlawful to deposit, place, or scatter or cast any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or upon any sidewalk, street, or other public place
or private premises if requested not to do so. It is also unlawful to
distribute, deposit, place, throw, scatter, or cast any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or upon any automobile or other vehicle.
   (B)   Handbills may be placed or deposited on inhabited private premises if
such handbill is so placed or deposited so as to be reasonably secure or as to
prevent such handbill from the possibility of being blown or drifted about such
premises, sidewalks, streets, or other public places.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.05 OWNER TO MAINTAIN PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful for an owner, lessee, or occupant of property to
maintain said property or contiguous sidewalks, streets, or alleys with litter
or dilapidated structures which constitute a hazard to public health and
safety.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.06 PROCEDURE TO COMPEL REMOVAL OF LITTER.
   Any officer or employee of the City shall enforce the provisions of §§
91.02 through
91.05 hereby by prosecuting violators of said sections in the Magistrate’s
court pursuant to the criminal provisions of this code. If such prosecution
fails to secure compliance with the provisions of said sections, or in the
event of inability to prosecute violators by reason of failure to secure
jurisdiction over their persons, any officer or employee of the City shall
compel the removal of litter by the procedure outlined in §§
91.07 through
91.11.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-6)
§ 91.07 NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   To compel the removal of litter or dilapidated structures through the
provisions of this section and of §§
91.06,
91.09,
91.10, and
91.11, written notice shall be given by the City, not less than 30 days before
the day set for compliance, to the owner and to the occupant or lessee of the
property of the condition(s) constituting a hazard to public health or safety
and shall include the legal description of the property and the cost to the
City for such removal if the owner, occupant, or lessee does not comply; said
notice shall be either mailed by certified mail to the owner and to the
occupant or lessee at his or her last known address or the address to which the
tax bill for the property was last mailed and if the owner does not reside on
such property, the notice shall be sent to him or her at his or her last known
address. The City may record the notice in the County Recorder’s office and if
compliance with the notice is subsequently satisfied, the City shall record a
release of the notice. The notice shall contain a statement that such person
may appeal in writing to the Council within 30 days from the date the notice is
received by him or her and prior to the date of compliance.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-7)
§ 91.08 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   Formal and legal notice shall be given by certified mail only; however,
personal notice may be given to assist in abatement.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-8)
§ 91.09 APPEAL TO COUNCIL.
   Should an appeal be submitted by the owner, occupant, or lessee, the Council
shall, at its next regular meeting after receiving the appeal, hear and
determine the same and the decision of the Council shall be final. The Council
may either affirm or reverse the decision of the City’s staff or modify the
scope of the work as required in the notice. The owner, occupant, or lessee
shall be granted 30 days after determination on appeal to comply with the
decision of Council unless the Council provides for a different date of
compliance.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-9)
§ 91.10 REMOVAL BY THE CITY.
   When any such person to whom notice has been given, fails, neglects, or
refuses to remove from such property any litter or dilapidated structures, the
City is authorized and directed to cause the same to be removed and disposed of
at the expense of the persons notified, including any lien holders of record,
at the cost as stated in the notice including 5% for additional inspection and
other incidental costs in connection therewith.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-10) (Ord. 98-04, passed 4-13-1998)
§ 91.11 LIEN FOR REMOVAL.
   The cost of removal, abatement, or legal actions seeking injunctions to
abate the litter or dilapidated structures shall be an assessment lien upon
recording by the City with the County Recorder a statement of an assessment,
including the date and amount of the assessment, the legal description of the
property, and the name of the City. Assessments that are imposed are due and
payable as provided in A.R.S. § 9-499(E), as amended, and the provisions of
A.R.S. § 9-499(F), (G), and (H) are applicable as if set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-11)
§ 91.12 PLACEMENT OF DEBRIS.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall place any rubbish, trash, filth,
or debris upon any private or public property not owned or under the control of
said person, firm, or corporation shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, in
addition to any fine which may be imposed for violation of any provisions of
this subchapter, shall be liable for all costs which may be assessed pursuant
to this subchapter for the removal of said rubbish, trash, filth, or debris.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.13 HEALTH HAZARDS.
   The City Manager is authorized to obtain assistance from the county in the
event that any health hazard is found which cannot be corrected or controlled
by provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 10-6)
§ 91.14 ADOPTION OF COUNTY SANITARY CODE.
   The certain document known as the “Pinal County Sanitary Code”, adopted July
26, 1982 and made a public record by Resolution 87-15, is hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this chapter the same as though said code was
specifically set forth herein; except that Chapters IV, V, VI, VIII, and X
thereof are specifically excluded in the code hereby adopted and at least three
copies of said code, noting the exclusions aforesaid, shall be filed in the
office of the City Clerk and kept available for public use and inspection.
(Prior Code, § 10-7)
JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 91.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, the condition of which is wrecked,
dismantled, partially dismantled, inoperative, or from which the wheels,
engine, transmission, or other substantial part thereof has been removed.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is self-propelled and designed to travel
along the ground includes, but is not limited to, automobiles, motor homes,
buses, motor bikes, motorcycles, motor scooters, and trucks which are required
to be registered and licensed with the state’s Department of Motor Vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 14-4-1)
§ 91.26 STORING, PARKING, OR LEAVING JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for a person to park, store,
leave, or permit the parking, storing, or leaving of any junk motor vehicle for
a period in excess of five days upon any private property within the City,
excepting where progress is being made toward immediate repair of such motor
vehicle; provided, however, that the provisions of this subchapter shall not
apply to any junk motor vehicle in an enclosed building, or the premises of a
business enterprise which is properly operated in the appropriate business zone
pursuant to the zoning laws of the City.
(Prior Code, § 14-4-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.27 NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   Whenever it comes to the attention of any officer or employee of the City
that a junk motor vehicle is located on any private property, exclusive of the
exceptions herebefore provided, he or she shall cite the owner of the vehicle,
or both, by written complaint. The written complaint shall require the party
cited to appear before the Magistrate not less than ten days no more than 30
days after the issuance of the complaint.
(Prior Code, § 14-4-3)
§ 91.28 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ENFORCEMENT.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
91.27, no person shall be cited by written complaint for a violation of said §
91.27 for any junk motor vehicle having lawfully affixed thereto expired
license plates or tags on the effective date of Ordinance No. 83-22 enacting
this provision. At the expiration date of said unexpired license plates or
tags, a person or persons shall be cited for violations of said §
91.27 as provided herebefore, and license plates or tags affixed to junk motor
vehicles after the effective date of this provision shall be of no consequence
in the enforcement of said §
91.27.
(Prior Code, § 14-4-4)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Fireworks prohibited; exceptions
   
92.03   Sale of fireworks
   
92.04   Posting of signs by fireworks salespersons
   
92.05   Enforcement
   
92.06   Liability for emergency response related to use of firework;
definitions
 
   
92.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSUMER FIREWORK. Those fireworks defined by A.R.S. § 36-1601, as amended
from time to time.
   DISPLAY FIREWORK. Those fireworks defined by A.R.S. § 36-1601, as amended
from time to time.
   FIRE CHIEF. The Chief of the Coolidge Fire Department or his or her
designee.
   FIREWORKS. Any combustible or explosive composition, substance, or
combination of substances, or any article prepared for the purpose of producing
a visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration, or
detonation, that is a consumer firework, display firework, or permissible
consumer firework as defined by A.R.S. § 36-1601, as amended from time to time.
   NOVELTY ITEMS. Federally deregulated novelty items that are known as
snappers, snap caps, party poppers, glow worms, snakes, toy smoke devices,
sparklers, and certain toys as defined in A.R.S. § 36-1601, as amended from
time to time.
   PERMISSIBLE CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Those fireworks as defined by A.R.S. § 36-
1601, as amended from time to time.
   PERSON. A corporation, company, partnership, firm, association, society, or
other legal entity, as well as a natural person.
   SUPERVISED PUBLIC DISPLAY. A monitored performance of display fireworks open
to the public and authorized by permit by the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-27)
§ 92.02 FIREWORKS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The use, discharge, or ignition of fireworks within the City is
prohibited.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the use of
novelty items or the occurrence of a supervised public display of fireworks
authorized by City permit.
   (C)   Permits may be granted by the Fire Chief for conducting a properly
supervised public display of fireworks or pyrotechnics training class. Every
such display shall be of such character and so located, discharged, or fired,
only after proper inspection and in a manner that does not endanger persons,
animals, or property. A permit shall not be issued, and may be revoked, during
time periods of high fire danger, as designated by the Fire Chief. The Fire
Chief has authority to impose reasonable conditions on any permits granted
pursuant to this section.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-27) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 SALE OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   No person shall sell, or permit or authorize the sale of, any
fireworks to a person who is under 16 years of age.
   (B)   No person shall sell, or permit or authorize the sale of, permissible
consumer fireworks in conflict with state law or City code.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-27) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 POSTING OF SIGNS BY FIREWORKS SALESPERSONS.
   (A)   Prior to the sale of permissible consumer fireworks, every person
engaged in such sales shall prominently display signs indicating the following:
      (1)   The use of fireworks, except novelty items as defined by City code,
including permissible consumer fireworks, is prohibited; and
      (2)   Fireworks authorized for sale under state law shall not be sold to
persons less than 16 years of age.
   (B)   Signs required under this section shall be placed at each cash
register and in each area where fireworks are displayed for sale.
   (C)   The Fire Chief shall develop regulations concerning the size and color
of the required signs and shall develop a model sign. The required sign
regulations and model sign shall be posted on the City’s website and filed with
the Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-27) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Fire Chief, a City police officer, or a City code enforcement
officer may issue civil complaints to enforce violations of this section
designated as civil offenses.
   (B)   Any person authorized pursuant to this section to issue a civil
complaint may also issue a notice of violation specifying actions to be taken
and the time in which they are to be taken to avoid issuance of a civil or
criminal complaint.
   (C)   A City police officer may issue criminal complaints to enforce this
section.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-27)
§ 92.06 LIABILITY FOR EMERGENCY RESPONSE RELATED TO USE OF FIREWORK;
DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   A person who uses, discharges, or ignites permissible consumer
fireworks, fireworks, or anything that is designed or intended to rise into the
air and explode or to detonate in the air or to fly above the ground, is liable
for the expenses of any emergency response that is required by such use,
discharge, or ignition. The fact that a person is convicted or found
responsible for a violation of this section is prima facie evidence of
liability under this section.
   (B)   The expenses of an emergency response are a charge against the person
liable for those expenses pursuant to section (A) above. The charge constitutes
a debt of that person and may be collected proportionately by the public
agencies or other first responders that incurred the expenses. The liability
imposed under this section is in addition to and not in limitation of any other
liability that may be imposed.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      EXPENSES OF EMERGENCY RESPONSE. Reasonable costs directly incurred by
public agencies, for-profit or not-for-profit entities that make an appropriate
emergency response to an incident.
      REASONABLE COSTS. Includes the costs of providing police, firefighting,
rescue, and emergency medical services at the scene of an incident and the
salaries of persons who respond to the incident.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-27) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Discharge of permissible consumer fireworks in violation of §
92.02 or the failure to comply with the requirements of §
92.04(A) or (B) is a civil offense punishable by a civil fine as follows:
         (a)   First offense: not less than $50 but not more than $250;
         (b)   Second offense within one calendar year: not less than $250 but
not more than $500; and
         (c)   Third and subsequent offenses within one calendar year: not less
than $500 but not more than $1,000.
      (2)   A person who violates the provisions of §§
92.01 to
92.06 shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor punishable by the maximum
punishment allowed by law.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-27)
CHAPTER 93: MARIJUANA USE
Section
   
93.01   Purpose
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Marijuana prohibited on public property
   
93.04   Marijuana establishments and testing facility permitted; nonresidential
   
93.05   Individual’s primary residence for personal use
   
93.06   Retail sales from marijuana and marijuana products
   
93.07   Delivery prohibited
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the
community. Except as allowed by law for personal, private use, the City enacts
reasonable regulations and requires compliance with zoning laws for the retail
sale, cultivation and manufacturing of marijuana or marijuana products in a
marijuana establishment or marijuana testing facility, and the cultivation,
processing and manufacturing of marijuana in a primary residence. Nothing in
this chapter is intended to promote or condone the sale, cultivation,
manufacture, transport, production, distribution, possession, or use of
marijuana or marijuana products in violation of any applicable law.
(Ord. 21-03, passed 2-8-2021)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The below words and phrases, wherever used in this chapter, shall be
construed as defined in this section unless, clearly from the context, a
different meaning is intended. Words used in the present tense include the
future tense, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words
in the singular number include the plural number.
   CHEMICAL EXTRACTION. The process of removing a particular component of a
mixture from others present, including removing resinous tetrahydrocannabinol
from marijuana.
   CHEMICAL SYNTHESIS. Production of a new particular molecule by adding to,
subtracting from, or changing the structure of a precursor molecule.
   CONSUME, CONSUMING, and CONSUMPTION. The act of ingesting, inhaling or
otherwise introducing marijuana into the human body.
   CONSUMER. An individual who is at least 21 years of age and who purchases
marijuana or marijuana products.
   CULTIVATE and CULTIVATION. To propagate, breed, grow, prepare and package
marijuana.
   DELIVER and DELIVERY. The transportation, transfer or provision of marijuana
or marijuana products to a consumer at a location other than the designated
retail location of a marijuana establishment.
   DEPARTMENT. The State of Arizona Department of Health Services or its
successor agency.
   DUAL LICENSEE. An entity that holds both a nonprofit medical marijuana
dispensary registration and a marijuana establishment license.
   ENCLOSED AREA. A building, greenhouse, or other structure that has:
      (1)   A complete roof enclosure supported by connecting walls that are
constructed of solid material extending from the ground to the roof;
      (2)   Is secure against unauthorized entry;
      (3)   Has a foundation, slab or equivalent base to which the floor is
securely attached; and
      (4)    Meets performance standards ensuring that cultivation and
processing activities cannot be and are not perceptible from the structure in
terms of not being visible from public view without using binoculars, aircraft
or other optical aids, and is equipped with a lock or other security device
that prevents access by minors.
   EXTRACTION. The process of extracting or separating resin from marijuana to
produce or process any form of marijuana concentrates using water, lipids,
gases, solvents, or other chemicals or chemical processes.
   MANUFACTURE and MANUFACTURING. To compound, blend, extract, infuse or
otherwise make or prepare a marijuana product.
   MARIJUANA.
      (1)   Means all parts of the plant of the genus cannabis, whether growing
or not, as well as the seeds from the plant, the resin extracted from any part
of the plant, and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or
preparation of the plant or its seeds or resin; and
      (2)   Includes cannabis as defined in A.R.S. § 13-3401.
      (3)   Does not include industrial hemp, the fiber produced from the
stalks of the plant of the genus cannabis, oil or cake made from the seeds of
the plant, sterilized seeds of the plant that are incapable of germination, or
the weight of any other ingredient combined with marijuana to prepare topical
or oral administrations, food, drink or other products.
   MARIJUANA CONCENTRATE.
      (1)   Means resin extracted from any part of a plant of the genus
cannabis and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or
preparation of that resin or tetrahydrocannabinol.
      (2)   Does not include industrial hemp or the weight of any other
ingredient combined with cannabis to prepare topical or oral administrations,
food, drink or other products.
   MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENT. An entity licensed by the Department to operate any
of the following:
      (1)   A single retail location at which the licensee may sell marijuana
and marijuana products to consumers, cultivate marijuana and manufacture
marijuana products;
      (2)   A single off-site cultivation location at which the licensee may
cultivate marijuana, process marijuana and manufacture marijuana products, but
from which marijuana and marijuana products may not be transferred or sold to
consumers; or
      (3)   A single off-site location at which the licensee may manufacture
marijuana products and package and store marijuana and marijuana products, but
from which marijuana and marijuana products may not be transferred or sold to
consumers.
   MARIJUANA PRODUCT. Marijuana concentrate and products that are composed of
marijuana and other ingredients and that are intended for use or consumption,
including edible products, ointments, and tinctures.
   MARIJUANA TESTING FACILITY. The Department or another entity that is
licensed by the Department to analyze the potency of marijuana and test
marijuana for harmful contaminants.
   NONPROFIT MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY. A nonprofit entity as defined in
A.R.S. § 36-2801(12).
   OPEN SPACE. A public park, public sidewalk, public walkway or public
pedestrian thoroughfare.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation, association, or any other
entity of whatever kind or nature.
   PROCESS and PROCESSING. To harvest, dry, cure, trim or separate parts of the
marijuana plant.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Has the same meaning prescribed in the Smoke-Free-Arizona Act,
A.R.S. § 36-601.01.
   SMOKE. To inhale, exhale, burn, carry or possess any lighted marijuana or
lighted marijuana products, whether natural or synthetic.
(Ord. 21-03, passed 2-8-2021)
§ 93.03 MARIJUANA PROHIBITED ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   The use, sale, cultivation, manufacture, production or distribution of
marijuana or marijuana products is prohibited on property that is occupied,
owned, controlled or operated by the City.
   (B)   It is unlawful for an individual to smoke marijuana in a public place
or open space in the City.
(Ord. 21-03, passed 2-8-2021) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS AND TESTING FACILITY PERMITTED;
NONRESIDENTIAL.
   Marijuana establishments and testing facilities shall be regulated as
outlined in the City Zoning Code.
(Ord. 21-03, passed 2-8-2021)
§ 93.05 INDIVIDUAL’S PRIMARY RESIDENCE FOR PERSONAL USE.
   (A)   To the fullest extent allowable by law, marijuana possession,
consumption, processing, manufacturing, transportation, and cultivation is
permitted in a residential zoning district in the City and is subject to the
following conditions and limitations.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any individual who is at least 21 years of
age to possess, transport, cultivate or process more than six marijuana plants.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for two or more individuals who are at least
21 years of age to possess, transport, cultivate or process more than 12
marijuana plants at the individuals’ primary residence.
      (3)   Except as provided by A.R.S. §§ 36-2801 et seq. and this section,
it shall be unlawful for an individual to otherwise cultivate marijuana in a
residential zoning district within the City limits.
      (4)   Individuals shall not process or manufacture marijuana by means of
any liquid or gas other than alcohol, that has a flashpoint below 100°F.
      (5)   Kitchen, bathrooms, and primary bedroom(s) shall be used for their
intended use and shall not be used primarily for residential marijuana
processing, manufacturing, or cultivation.
      (6)   A residence shall not emit dust, fumes, vapors, or odors into the
environment and individuals shall ensure that ventilation, air filtration,
building and design standards are compatible with adjacent uses and the
requirements of adopted building codes of City.
      (7)   Cultivation shall be limited to a closet, room, greenhouse, or
other enclosed area on the grounds of the residence equipped with a lock or
other security device that prevents access by minors.
      (8)   Cultivation shall take place in an area where the marijuana plants
are not visible from public view without using binoculars, aircraft, or other
optical aid
(Ord. 21-03, passed 2-8-2021) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 RETAIL SALES FROM MARIJUANA AND MARIJUANA PRODUCTS.
   To the fullest extent allowable by law, the sale of marijuana and marijuana
products is authorized within the City from a marijuana establishment and is
tangible personal property as defined in A.R.S. § 42-5001, and subject to the
transaction privilege tax in the retail classification and use tax.
(Ord. 21-03, passed 2-8-2021) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 DELIVERY PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful to solicit, facilitate, or accept orders for delivery, or to
deliver marijuana or marijuana products in the City; provided that the
prohibition in this section shall not apply when delivery is done by a
nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary in compliance with the Department rules
and requirements governing the state Medical Marijuana Program.
(Ord. 21-03, passed 2-8-2021) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It is unlawful and a violation of this chapter for a person to sell,
cultivate, process, manufacture, store, or transport marijuana or marijuana
products if the person fails to meet all the requirements in this chapter, the
City Code, and state law, including the Department’s rules.
   (B)   Each day any violation of any provision of this chapter shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in A.R.S. §§ 36-2853 and 36-2854, or as
otherwise specifically provided for in this chapter, any violation of this
chapter not specifically designated shall be a Class 1 misdemeanor.
   (D)   For purposes of this chapter, a violation of any provision of this
chapter or City Code shall mean any of the following:
      (1)   Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an
offense or a misdemeanor, by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by
ordinance;
      (2)   Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by
ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance;
      (3)   Failure to perform an act if the failure is declared a misdemeanor
or an offense or unlawful by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by
ordinance;
      (4)   In this section, a violation of the chapter or City Code includes
causing, allowing, permitting, aiding, abetting, suffering, or concealing a
violation of this chapter or City Code; and
      (5)   Officers of any corporation or partners of any firm or entity that
are found to have committed a violation of this City Code shall be individually
subject to fine and/or imprisonment for the violation by the entity.
   (E)   Violations of this chapter are in addition to any other violation
enumerated within the City ordinances or the City Code and in no way limits the
penalties, actions, or abatement procedures which may be taken by the City for
any violation of this chapter, which is also a violation of any other ordinance
or Code provision of the City or federal or state law. Conviction and
punishment of judgment and civil sanction against any person under this chapter
shall not relieve such person from the responsibility of correcting prohibited
conditions, or removing prohibited structures or improvements, and shall not
prevent the enforced correction or removal thereof.
   (F)   The remedies provided in this chapter shall be cumulative and in
addition to any other federal, state, or local remedy, which may be available.
Nothing contained herein shall be construed to preclude prosecution under any
other applicable statute, ordinance, rule, order, or regulation.
(Ord. 21-03, passed 2-8-2021)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS TAXES AND FEES
      
111.   AIRPORT REGULATIONS
      
112.   CABLE TELEVISION CODE
      
113.   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS TAXES AND FEES
Section
Business License Tax
   
110.01   License required
   
110.02   Issuance of license
   
110.03   License fee and payment
   
110.04   Posting of license
   
110.05   Exhibition of license required
   
110.06   License not transferable
   
110.07   Exemption
   
110.08   Revocation
   
110.09   Civil action
   
110.10   Currently licensed business
Public Utilities
   
110.25   Definition
   
110.26   License fees
   
110.27   Payment due
   
110.28   Records open for inspection
BUSINESS LICENSE TAX
§ 110.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to carry on any trade, calling,
profession, occupation, or business without having procured a license from the
City and complying with any and all regulations of such trade, calling,
profession, business, or occupation specified in this subchapter.
   (B)   Persons operating without a required license shall be prevented from
continuing such activity by all proper means available to the City.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Finance Department to prepare and issue a
license under this subchapter for every person, firm, company, or corporation
liable to pay a license hereunder, and to state in each license the amount
thereof, the period of time covered, the name of the person, firm, or
corporation for whom issued, the trade, calling, profession, occupation, or
business licensed, and the location or place of business where said trade,
calling, profession, occupation, or business is carried on.
   (B)   The City shall establish an application form which will assure that
other provisions of this code are being met. No license shall be issued until
the applicant and his or her place of business comply with all provisions of
this code. Applicants owing the City money shall not receive a license unless
arrangements have been made with the manager for elimination of the debt.
   (C)   A separate license must be obtained for each branch establishment or
separate place of business in which any trade, calling, profession, occupation,
or business is carried on. Each license shall authorize the person obtaining
such license to carry on, pursue, or conduct only that trade, calling,
profession, occupation, or business described in such license and only at the
location or place of business which is indicated.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-2)
§ 110.03 LICENSE FEE AND PAYMENT.
   (A)   To secure a license required by this subchapter, every person engaged
in any trade, calling, profession, occupation, or business within the City
shall pay an annual fee as follows.
Description Fee
Description                                                               Fee
Bank: capital, surplus, and financial institutions when undivided profits
are:                                                                      $100
Less than $300,000                                                        $150
$300,000 and over
Barber - individual                                                       $25
Barber shops and owner                                                    $50
Beauty operators/individual                                               $25
Beauty shops and owner                                                    $50
Club license - all spirituous liquor                                      $250
Distiller, brewer, winery’s license                                     $125
General fixed business (that maintains a physical location in the City    $50
limits) - other than specified in this table
General fixed business (that maintains a physical location outside the    $100
City limits)
Grocers license - all spirituous liquor                                   $200
Grocers license - beer and wine                                           $175
Hotel/motel retailer - all spirituous liquor                              $250
Hotels, motels, hospitals, rest homes, sanitariums, and apartment
complexes:
1-10 rooms/units                                                          $50
11-50 rooms/units                                                         $75
Over 50 rooms/units                                                       $100
Three or more residential rental units (single-family housing)            $50
Commercial rentals                                                        $50
Off-sale retailer - all spirituous liquor                                 $150
Off-sale retailer - beer and wine                                         $125
Off-sale retailer - beer only                                             $100
On-sale retailers - all liquor                                            $250
On-sale retailers - beer only                                             $150
On-sale retailers - beer and wine                                         $175
Restaurant retailer - all spirituous liquor                               $250
Restaurant retailer - beer and wine                                       $200
Restaurant retailer - beer only                                           $175
 
 
Medical Marijuana
Annual medical marijuana business license application and investigation $500
fee
Annual medical marijuana business license fee                           $250
Annual medical marijuana employee license fee (per employee)            $250
 
 
Sexually-Oriented Business
Business license ($500 non-refundable application fee) $500
Employee license                                       $100
 
 
Peddler, Solicitor, Transient Merchant, and Vendor/Special Events/Roadside  
Carnival license                                                           $75
Late fees per month                                                        $5
Per day                                                                    $25
Per month in excess of one month                                           $300
October 1 through June 30 full fee. Prorate at July 1 to September 30       
 
   (B)   A year within the meaning of this subchapter shall commence on October
1 and end on September 30. The Finance Department shall prorate the fee charged
for licenses issued on or after July 1, whereupon the fee through September 30
shall be one-half the license fee.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-3) (Ord. 04-11, passed 9-13-2004; Ord. 05-02, passed 4-11-
2005; Ord. 14-10, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 110.04 POSTING OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Every person, firm, company, or corporation having a license under the
provisions of this subchapter and carrying on a trade, calling, profession,
occupation, or business at a fixed place of business shall keep such license
posted and exhibited, while in force, in some conspicuous part of the place of
business. The license shall set forth the address of the business if it
operates from a fixed place of business and if the fixed place of business is
to be located at a different location after issuance thereof, the licensee
shall pay a transfer fee of $10 and be issued a new license for the remainder
of the license term, said new license setting forth the new address of the
business.
   (B)   Every person having a license and not having a fixed place of business
shall carry such license with him or her at all times while carrying on that
trade, calling, profession, occupation, or business for which the same was
granted. Every person, firm, company, or corporation having a license under the
provisions of this subchapter shall produce and exhibit the same when applying
for a renewal thereof and whenever requested to do so by any police officer or
by any other authorized to issue, inspect, or collect licenses.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.05 EXHIBITION OF LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any authorized official shall have the power to enter free of charge, during
normal business hours, any place of business for which a license is required by
this subchapter, and to demand the exhibition of such license for the current
term, from any person engaged or employed in the transaction of any business,
and if such person shall then and there fail to exhibit such license, such
person shall be in violation of this code.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.06 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   No license granted or issued under the provisions of this subchapter shall
be in any manner assignable or transferable to any other person, firm, company,
or corporation.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-6)
§ 110.07 EXEMPTION.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   All persons exempted by the laws or statutes of the United States or
the state. Persons claiming an exemption from local licensing provisions shall
be required to demonstrate such exemption to the satisfaction of the City;
   (B)   Any charitable, educational, religious, fraternal, veterans
organization, or association organized for charitable purposes or any other
organization or association organized for non-profit purposes which shall
conduct or stage any concert, exhibition, lecture, or entertainment within the
City where no admission is charged or where the receipts from admission charges
are used exclusively for music or art or for charitable, educational,
religious, fraternal, or benevolent purposes and no part of which is used for
the purpose of private gain of any individual;
   (C)   Any person selling, hawking, or peddling ranch or farm produce which
has been raised or produced by that person;
   (D)   Vending machines and postage stamp machines where such machines are
located in and owned by the licensee or proprietor of a regularly established
business which is paying license tax hereunder;
   (E)   Persons owning or operating less than three apartments, houses,
trailer spaces, or other lodging spaces rented, leased, or licensed or
available for rent, lease, or license within the City;
   (F)   Activities sponsored by the Coolidge Unified School District;
   (G)   Music instructors who instruct four or fewer students at one time;
   (H)   Persons practicing any licensed profession as a regular employee of
another person or firm licensed under this subchapter;
   (I)   Persons under the age of 18 years engaged in part-time or seasonal
employment while still attending school; or
   (J)   Wholesalers having no permanent place of business in the City who sell
their products to retailers licensed pursuant to this subchapter and not to
ultimate consumers of the product.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-7) (Ord. 99-15, passed 9-13-1999; Ord. 04-11, passed 9-13-
2004)
§ 110.08 REVOCATION.
   Any license issued with this subchapter may be revoked for misinterpretation
in applying for the same, failure to pay for the same, or fraudulent activities
in the conduct of the business licensed.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-8)
§ 110.09 CIVIL ACTION.
   The amount of any license fee imposed by this subchapter shall be deemed a
debt to the City and any business required to obtain a business license without
first procuring the same shall, at the option of the City, be liable in a civil
action for the amount of the fee imposed by §
110.03.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-9)
§ 110.10 CURRENTLY LICENSED BUSINESS.
   Any persons holding a current and paid license issued by the City to carry
on any trade, calling, profession, business, or occupation shall not be
required to purchase a new business license until said license expires, at
which time he or she shall complete and file a new application as required by
the City, for issuance of a new license.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-10)
PUBLIC UTILITIES
§ 110.25 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. Receipts derived from residential and commercial sales and
services rendered within the corporate limits of the City, but shall not
include receipts from any government, school district, political subdivision,
or official agency thereof.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-1)
§ 110.26 LICENSE FEES.
   Any public utility company doing business within the corporate limits of the
City shall pay to the City a business license tax, unless it is already paying
a franchise tax to the City under a franchise granted such company by the City.
Such tax shall be equal to 2% of gross receipts derived solely from services
rendered within the City. As it concerns all telephone companies, the license
tax shall be equal to 2% of their gross receipts derived solely from providing
local telephone service and directory advertising charges within the City.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-2)
§ 110.27 PAYMENT DUE.
   The license tax hereby imposed and payments for the license tax shall be due
and payable quarterly in advance, on the first day of each calendar quarter.
The license shall expire on the last day of each quarter. The amount of the
license tax payable at the beginning of each quarter shall be based upon the
gross receipts for such company for the previous quarter.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-3)
§ 110.28 RECORDS OPEN FOR INSPECTION.
   For the purpose of verifying the amount payable for said license, the books
and records of the licensee shall be subject to inspection and audit by an
authorized representative of the City at all reasonable times.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-4)
CHAPTER 111: AIRPORT REGULATIONS
Section
Landing Fees
   
111.01   General fees; exceptions
   
111.02   Amendment of fees by resolution
   
111.03   Collection
Parachutist Activity and Administrative Rules
   
111.15   Parachutist landing areas and use thereof
   
111.16   Promulgation of rules and regulations
LANDING FEES
§ 111.01 GENERAL FEES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   There is hereby initially imposed upon each aircraft landing at the
Coolidge-Florence Municipal Airport a landing fee for the use of said airport
of $0.20 per 1,000 pounds of licensed minimum gross landing and weight of each
aircraft. In tabulating weights, the weight of each aircraft shall not be less
than the allowable maximum gross landing weight as computed at the mean sea
level by the Federal Aviation Administration.
   (B)   The following aircraft shall be exempt from the payment of said
landing fee:
      (1)   Single and twin engine aircraft not carrying passengers or cargo
for hire;
      (2)   Aircraft operated by an airline company and regularly scheduled for
the primary purpose of carrying persons or property for hire in interstate,
intrastate, or international transportation;
      (3)   Aircraft owned and operated exclusively in the public service by
the federal government, by any state in the United States or political
subdivision, foreign government or any municipality, or by the Civil Air
Patrol;
      (4)   Any aircraft belonging to or being operated by a lessee of any
portion of the Coolidge-Florence Municipal Airport; and
      (5)   Crop dusters, seeders, and spray-type aircraft used primarily for
agricultural purposes.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-1)
§ 111.02 AMENDMENT OF FEES BY RESOLUTION.
   The landing fee rate as imposed by this subchapter may be revised or amended
from time to time by a formal resolution of the Council. The revised or amended
rates shall be effective upon the filing of said resolution with the Clerk and
posting a copy of said resolution at the Coolidge-Florence Municipal Airport
and having copies available for the public at said airport.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-2)
§ 111.03 COLLECTION.
   The lessee and operator of the Coolidge-Florence Municipal Airport, or such
other person as may be authorized and designated by the City, shall collect
said landing fees from each aircraft owner or operator upon the landing of such
aircraft at the airport. Upon payment of the landing fee, a receipt shall be
issued to the owner or operator, acknowledging payment of the landing fee and
showing the name and address of the owner and the operator of said aircraft,
the FAA number of the aircraft, the manufacturer and manufacturer’s designation
of the aircraft, and the gross landing weight.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-3)
PARACHUTIST ACTIVITY AND ADMINISTRATIVE RULES
§ 111.15 PARACHUTIST LANDING AREAS AND USE THEREOF.
   It shall be unlawful for parachutists to land at the airport other than in
the designated parachutists’ landing area. When Williams Air Force Base is not
using Runway 05/23, the City Manager may allow parachutists to land in other
areas.
(Prior Code, § 15-2-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.16 PROMULGATION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   In accordance with state law and federal administration regulations, the
City Manager shall establish administrative rules and regulations for usage of
the airport by all persons.
(Prior Code, § 15-2-2)
CHAPTER 112: CABLE TELEVISION CODE
Section
   
112.01   Purpose
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Unlawful acts; violation
   
112.04   Application and issuance
   
112.05   Authority granted
   
112.06   Undergrounding of facilities
   
112.07   Limitations of license
   
112.08   Obligations upon expiration
   
112.09   Construction in the highways
   
112.10   System construction and maintenance
   
112.11   Revocation for non-use of uniform video service license
   
112.12   Reports
   
112.13   License fee on gross revenue; transaction privilege taxes
   
112.14   Public, educational, and governmental access programming
   
112.15   Indemnification
   
112.16   Insurance
   
112.17   Miscellaneous
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter are to comply with the requirements of A.R.S.
Title 9, Chapter 13 and to set forth regulations for the application by video
service providers for uniform video services licenses for the provision of
video service and other authorized services in the City, to provide for
issuance of uniform video services licenses in accordance with law, to provide
for imposition of non- discriminatory license fees, and to otherwise carry out
the mandates of A.R.S. Title 9, Chapter 13.
(Prior Code, § 24-1-1) (Ord. 19-26, passed 12-9-2019)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions set forth in A.R.S. § 9-1401 shall apply to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 24-1-2) (Ord. 19-26, passed 12-9-2019)
§ 112.03 UNLAWFUL ACTS; VIOLATION.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any video service provider to construct, operate,
or maintain a video service network within the boundaries of the City without a
local license issued in compliance with this chapter and such license is in
full force and effect.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to make any unauthorized connections,
whether physically, electrically, acoustically, inductively, or otherwise, with
any part of a licensed video service network within the City for the purpose of
enabling himself or herself or others to receive any video service without the
permission of the video service provider to whom a local license has been
issued.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of a
licensee, to willfully tamper with, remove, or injure any equipment associated
with a video service network of a video service provider.
(Prior Code, § 24-1-3) (Ord. 19-26, passed 12-9-2019) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Prior to the commencement of any construction or expansion of a video
service network or the provision of any video service, a video service provider
shall file with the City Clerk an application and an affidavit in a form
provided by the City Clerk. The application shall include the following:
      (1)   The name of the video service provider, its type of entity, and its
jurisdiction of formation;
      (2)   The address and telephone number of the video service provider’s
principal place of business;
      (3)   The name and address of the video service provider’s principal
executive officers or general partners and any persons authorized to represent
the video service provider before the local government;
      (4)   If the video service provider is not an incumbent cable operator,
the date on which the provider expects to provide video services in the area
identified under section (A)(5) below;
      (5)   An exact description of the service area to be served, as
identified by a geographic information system digital boundary that meets or
exceeds national map accuracy standards;
      (6)   A requirement that the video service provider pay the license fees
required under this chapter and all other lawful fees and charges imposed by
the City;
      (7)   A requirement that the video service provider file in a timely
manner with the Federal Communications Commission all forms required by that
agency before offering video service in the service area, including the forms
required by 47 C.F.R. § 76.1801;
      (8)   A requirement that the video service provider agrees to comply with
and be subject to all valid and enforceable federal and state laws;
      (9)   A requirement that the video service provider agrees to comply with
all generally applicable, nondiscriminatory City laws, including highway use,
mapping, insurance, performance bonds, security fund, indemnification, or
similar requirements that apply to the use and occupation of any highway and
that conform to A.R.S. Title 9, Chapter 13;
      (10)   A requirement that the video service provider comply with the
public, education, and government programming requirements of A.R.S. Title 9,
Chapter 13;
      (11)   A requirement that the video service provider comply with all
customer service rules of the Federal Communications Commission under 47 C.F.R.
§ 76.309(c) applicable to cable operators;
      (12)   A requirement that the video service provider comply with the
consumer privacy requirements of 47 U.S.C. § 551 applicable to cable operators;
      (13)   A grant of authority by the City to provide video service in the
service area as described under section (A)(5) above;
      (14)   A grant of authority by the City to use and occupy the highways in
the delivery of the video service, subject to the laws of this state and the
police powers of the City;
      (15)   The term of the uniform video service license; and
      (16)   A requirement that the parties to the agreement are subject to and
must comply with A.R.S. Title 9, Chapter 13.
   (B)   The application shall be accompanied by an affidavit signed by one of
the principal executive officers or general partners of the applicant that the
information set forth in the application are true and accurate.
   (C)   The application and affidavit shall be submitted to the City Clerk,
who shall forward the application and affidavit to the City Engineer for
review.
   (D)   If the City Engineer determines that the application and affidavit are
incomplete or otherwise deficient, written notice shall be given to the
applicant not later than 15 days after the date of filing of the application
and affidavit. The written notice shall:
      (1)   Explain the incompleteness or deficiency in detail; and
      (2)   Specify the information or other items that are necessary for
property completion of the application and affidavit.
   (E)   The uniform video services licenses shall be issued within 30 days
from the date a complete application was filed with the City Clerk. The term of
a uniform video services license shall not exceed ten years.
   (F)   If written notice of an incomplete or deficient application and
affidavit is not given within 15 days after the date of filing, or if the
uniform video services license is not issued within 30 days from the date a
complete application has been submitted, application and affidavit shall be
deemed complete and issued to the applicant.
   (G)   No fees shall be charged for filing or processing an application,
affidavit, notice, or other document related to the issuance of the uniform
video services licenses.
   (H)   Amendments to a uniform video services license to add service areas
shall be processed in the same manner as the original uniform video services
licenses.
   (I)   The term of a uniform video services license may be extended by the
holder of a video service provider filing with the City Clerk a notice to
extend the term for a specified period not to exceed ten years. The notice
shall be filed at least one month before the end of the term of the uniform
video services license.
   (J)   A uniform video service license does not authorize the use of or
attachment by a video service provider to a utility or other pole owned by the
City or other person. Any such use or attachment must first be approved in a
separate contract with the City.
(Prior Code, § 24-1-4) (Ord. 19-26, passed 12-9-2019)
§ 112.05 AUTHORITY GRANTED.
   A uniform video services license granted by the City shall authorize the
video service provider to:
   (A)   Provide video service in the City in the service area designated in
the application and affidavit during the term of the uniform video services
license;
   (B)   Construct and operate a video service network in the highways in each
service area, in compliance with the uniform video services license and City
laws; and
   (C)   Operate and maintain facilities installed in the highways in the
service area pursuant to A.R.S. §§ 9-506(I), 9-506(J), 9-584, and A.R.S. Title
9, Chapter 5, Article 8.
(Prior Code, § 24-1-5) (Ord. 19-26, passed 12-9-2019)
§ 112.06 UNDERGROUNDING OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   A video service provider’s new cable, wires, and other equipment shall
be placed underground, and a video service provider shall not erect new poles
for overhead facilities. If, at a future date, the City requires any utility
services on existing overhead poles be placed underground, then such
requirements shall also apply to video service providers. The City shall not be
responsible for any costs incurred by the video service provider in placing the
video service provider’s facilities underground.
   (B)   In all new developments, all transmission and distribution facilities
shall be installed underground. Where a developer provides a trench for
undergrounding in a new development, the developer must allow the video service
provider to utilize this trench and provide backfill under the same conditions
as are extended to other trench users. Cable television shall utilize common or
joint trench with telephone and/or utilities for undergrounding where a
developer provides a trench for undergrounding by negotiating a joint trench
agreement with those entities.
   (C)   Developers and video service providers shall place all cable and
appurtenances underground. Existing technology may preclude the placing of some
appurtenances underground; any such appurtenances placed above ground shall be
located so as to be as unobtrusive as possible, consistent with City standards.
As new technology and economic feasibility allow appurtenances associated with
future lines shall be placed underground.
(Prior Code, § 24-1-6) (Ord. 19-26, passed 12-9-2019)
§ 112.07 LIMITATIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A uniform video services license granted under this chapter shall be
nonexclusive.
   (B)   Any privilege claimed under a uniform video services license by the
video service provider in any highway shall be subordinate to any lawful
occupancy or use thereof by the City and shall be subordinate to any prior
easements, prior licenses to use the highways, and any other private property
rights that may be superior to the uniform video services license issued.
   (C)   A video service provider shall be subject to all existing requirements
of the City’s rules, regulations, and specifications or hereafter enacted or
established pursuant to the City’s police powers and taxing authority, and
shall comply with all applicable existing state and federal laws and
regulations or hereafter enacted or established.
   (D)   The granting of uniform video services license shall not relieve the
video service provider of any obligation involved in obtaining pole space from
any department of the City, utility company, or from others lawfully
maintaining poles in the highway.
   (E)   The granting of a uniform video services license does not relieve
licensee of compliance with provisions of City code, ordinances, or policies
governing construction, work, or use of the highways. There is hereby reserved
to the City the power to amend any section of the City code related to
construction in highways pursuant to its police powers.
(Prior Code, § 24-1-7) (Ord. 19-26, passed 12-9-2019)
§ 112.08 OBLIGATIONS UPON EXPIRATION.
   A video service provider may terminate a uniform video service license by
filing a written notice of termination with the City Clerk. Such notice shall
be filed at least 90 days before termination of service. The notice shall also
be sent to all subscribers within the affected service area at least 90 days
prior to termination of service.
(Prior Code, § 24-1-8) (Ord. 19-26, passed 12-9-2019)
§ 112.09 CONSTRUCTION IN THE HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   Video service providers and their subcontractors shall comply with the
requirements of this chapter and other applicable chapters of the City code;
construction standards of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Rules and
Regulations, Part 76 Subpart K (Technical Standards), as amended from time to
time; and detailed standards and plans submitted by the video service provider
as part of any application or permit submitted to the City.
   (B)   Video service providers shall, at their expense, protect, support,
disconnect, relocate, or remove any of its property when required by the City
by reason of traffic conditions, public safety, or welfare; street or alley
vacation; freeway or street construction or repair; change or establishment of
street grade; installation of sewers, drains, water pipes, power lines, signal
lines, transportation facilities tracks, or any other type of structure or
improvements by public agencies. The City may disconnect, remove, or relocate
any of video service provider’s facilities which have not been disconnected,
removed, or relocated within a reasonable period of time after a request from
the City, and video service provider shall reimburse the City for its actual
cost in disconnecting, removing, or relocating video service provider’s
facilities. Except where otherwise prohibited by state or federal law, the
entire cost of the installation, construction, operation, or removal of such
facilities shall be borne by the video service provider.
(Prior Code, § 24-1-9) (Ord. 19-26, passed 12-9-2019)
§ 112.10 SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   A video service provider proceeding with reconstruction of an existing
video service network shall establish and file with the City Engineer a
construction plan, including maps showing construction locations, and a
timetable for buildout and activation of cable lines.
   (B)   All cable, equipment, and connections in, over, under, and upon the
streets and public ways in the City, wherever situated or located, shall at all
times be maintained in a safe and suitable condition and in good order and
repair.
   (C)   Any and all streets and public ways which are disturbed or damaged
during the construction, operation, maintenance, or reconstruction shall be
promptly repaired by the video service provider at its expense and to the
satisfaction of the City Engineer.
   (D)   In the event a video service provider neglects or fails to cause any
work or other act required by law or hereunder to be properly completed in, on,
over, or under any street or other public place within any time prescribed
therefor, or upon notice given when no time is prescribed, the City Engineer
may cause such work or other activity to be completed in whole or in part to
his or her satisfaction, and upon so doing, shall submit to video service
provider an itemized statement of the cost thereof. The video service provider
shall, upon 30 days after receipt of such statement, pay to the City the entire
amount thereof.
   (E)   A video service provider shall arrange its lines, cables, and other
appurtenances, on both public and private property, in such a manner as to
cause no unreasonable interference with the use of the public or private
property by any person. In the event of such interference, the City Engineer
may require the removal of video service provider’s lines, cables, and
appurtenances.
   (F)   A video service provider or its designated contractors or
subcontractors, when constructing or installing cable equipment of any kind in
public right-of-way and/or easements on private property, shall fully and
completely restore any and all such property to its original condition.
   (G)   A video service provider shall construct, install, and maintain its
video service network in an orderly and workmanlike manner. The safety of the
general public, the video service provider’s employees, the employees of
utilities, and all other property affected by the such construction shall be
the primary objective whenever or wherever a video service provider operates or
locates equipment.
(Prior Code, § 24-1-10) (Ord. 19-26, passed 12-9-2019)
§ 112.11 REVOCATION FOR NON-USE OF UNIFORM VIDEO SERVICE LICENSE.
   A video service provider shall provide video service to at least one
subscriber within each service area authorized by a uniform video service
license within 24 months after the date the uniform video service license is
issued. If the video service provider fails to comply with this section, the
City may revoke the uniform video service license.
(Prior Code, § 24-1-11) (Ord. 19-26, passed 12-9-2019)
§ 112.12 REPORTS.
   A video service provider shall file all reports required by and in
compliance with A.R.S. § 9- 1432. The reports shall be filed with the City
Clerk. All such reports shall be confidential unless the video service provider
has consented in writing to the disclosure.
(Prior Code, § 24-1-12) (Ord. 19-26, passed 12-9-2019)
§ 112.13 LICENSE FEE ON GROSS REVENUE; TRANSACTION PRIVILEGE TAXES.
   (A)   A video service provider shall pay to the City a license fee as a
percentage of gross revenues for the use of the highways to provide video
service within its service area. The license fee shall be paid quarterly on or
before the twentieth day of the month following the quarter end, and becomes
delinquent on the last business day of that month. If such payment is not made
by the next to the last business day of the following month, the City will
impose interest at a rate of 1.5% per month commencing from the date payment
should have been made, unless the payment is subject to a bona fide dispute,
and continuing until the payment is made. Fractions of a month shall be
considered to constitute a full month for the purpose of computing interest.
Any offset of fees and costs against the license fee and transactional
privilege taxes permitted under state or federal law shall be itemized with
each quarterly payment.
   (B)   The total of the rates of the license fee and the transaction
privilege taxes imposed shall be 5% of gross revenues, and such license fee
shall be imposed equally and uniformly on all video service providers and
holdover cable operators.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided by federal law, if a video service
provider offers video service bundled with other services that are not video
service for a single discounted price, all of the following apply.
      (1)   The method that the video service provider uses to determine gross
revenue subject to license fees by allocating the single discounted price among
the bundle of video service and non-video services shall be reasonable and
supported by the video service provider’s books and records.
      (2)   For the purpose of meeting the video service provider’s burden of
proof, the video service provider shall use an objective and verifiable method
of calculating the license fee, using the books and records that the video
service provider kept in the regular course of business for other purposes,
including non-tax purposes.
      (3)   A video service provider may not use bundled offerings as a means
to evade paying license fees.
(Prior Code, § 24-1-13) (Ord. 19-26, passed 12-9-2019)
§ 112.14 PUBLIC, EDUCATIONAL, AND GOVERNMENTAL ACCESS PROGRAMMING.
   (A)   If permissible under state and federal law, all video service
providers shall provide at no initial or recurring charge the basic service
tier of video service to one outlet and one receiving device at each building
occupied by the City that is not more than 200 feet from the nearest
technically and commercially feasible point of connection on the video service
network. The City shall designate the building in writing to the video service
provider.
   (B)   A video service provider shall provide channel capacity to transmit
programming over which the video service provider exercises no editorial
control, except as authorized by 47 U.S.C. § 531. At the City’s election, the
channel capacity shall be limited to one of the following:
      (1)   Not more than two channels of public, educational, or governmental
access programming in the basic service tier of the video service network and
not more than two channels of noncommercial governmental programming, at least
one of which may be programmed by the federal government, in the digital
programming tier of the video service network; or
      (2)   Not more than two lines of access programming with each line of
programming carried on up to two standard definition channels and two switched
digital high-definition channels.
   (C)   Unless specifically preempted by state or federal law, none of the
annual fair market value of any channel capacity provided pursuant to section
(B) above may be offset against the license fee set forth in §
112.13.
   (D)   A video service provider shall regularly display an unobtrusive logo
or other suitable identifier of the video service provider on public,
educational, or governmental access channels.
   (E)   A video service provider shall pay all costs and expenses to provide,
maintain, and operate facilities and equipment of the video service network,
including facilities and equipment for signal carriage, processing,
reformatting, and interconnection for all of the following: to connect the
video service network or cable system, as it may be relocated from time to
time, to transmit programming to and from existing locations of public,
educational, or governmental access facilities and to allow monitoring of
access programming at the facilities; and to transmit public, educational, and
governmental access channels to subscribers with the same prevailing quality,
functionality, and identification as other channels.
(Prior Code, § 24-1-14) (Ord. 19-26, passed 12-9-2019)
§ 112.15 INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   The City shall not at any time be required to pay from its own funds
for injury or damage occurring to any person or property from any cause
whatsoever arising out of a video service provider’s construction,
reconstruction, maintenance, repair, use, operation, condition, or dismantling
of its video service network or delivery of service.
   (B)   Except where the City and any of its associated, affiliated, allied,
and subsidiary entities, now existing or hereinafter created, and their
respective officers, boards, commissions, employees, agents, attorneys, and
contractors (hereinafter referred to as “indemnitees”) are solely and grossly
negligent, a video service provider shall, at its sole cost and expense,
indemnify, defend, and hold harmless from and against:
      (1)   Any and all liabilities, obligations, damages, penalties, claims,
liens, costs, charges, losses, and expenses (including, without limitation,
reasonable fees and expenses of attorneys, expert witnesses, and consultants),
which may be imposed upon, incurred by, or be asserted against the indemnitees
by reason of: any act or omission of the video service provider, its personnel,
employees, agents, contractors, or subcontractors, resulting in economic harm,
personal injury, bodily injury, sickness, disease or death to any person or
damage to, loss of, or destruction of tangible or intangible property, libel,
slander, invasion of privacy, and unauthorized use of any trademark, trade
name, copyright, patent, service mark, or any other right of any person, firm,
or corporation, which may arise in whole or in part out of or be in any way
connected with the video service provider’s construction, reconstruction,
installation, operation, maintenance, or condition of the video service network
and any other facilities authorized by or permitted under a video service
license (including those arising in whole or in part from any matter contained
in or resulting from the transmission of programming over the video service
network, but excluding any programming provided by indemnitees which is
transmitted over the video service network); the provision of video services or
other services authorized by or permitted due to the issuance of a video
service license; the release of hazardous substances; or the failure to comply
with any federal, state, or local statute, ordinance, or regulation;
      (2)   Any and all liabilities, obligations, damages, penalties, claims,
liens, costs, charges, losses, and expenses (including, without limitation,
reasonable fees and expenses of attorneys, expert witnesses, and other
consultants), which are imposed upon, incurred by, or asserted against the
indemnitees by reason of any claim or lien arising in whole or in part out of
work, labor, materials, or supplies provided or supplied to a video service
provider, its contractors or subcontractors, for the installation,
construction, reconstruction, operation, or maintenance of a video services
network (and any other facilities authorized by or permitted due to the
issuance of a video services license) or the provision of video services (or
other services authorized by or permitted due to the issuance of a video
service license); and
      (3)   Any and all liabilities, obligations, damages, penalties, claims,
liens, costs, charges, losses, and expenses (including, without limitation,
reasonable fees and expenses of attorneys, expert witnesses, and consultants),
which may be imposed upon, incurred by, or be asserted against the indemnitees
by reason of any financing or securities offering by a video service provider
or its affiliates for violations of the common law or any laws, statutes, or
regulations of the state or the United States, including those of the Federal
Securities and Exchange Commission.
   (C)   A video service provider shall undertake and assume for its officers,
agents, contractors and subcontractors, and employees, all risk of dangerous
conditions, if any, on or about any City-owned or controlled property or the
public highways, and a video service provider shall indemnify and hold harmless
the indemnitees against and from any claim asserted or liability imposed upon
the indemnitees for personal injury or property damage to any person (other
than from indemnitees’ sole and gross negligence) arising in whole or in part
out of a video service provider’s installation, operation, maintenance, or
condition of a video services network or other facilities or a video service
provider’s failure to comply with any federal, state, or local statute,
ordinance, or regulation.
   (D)   In the event any action or proceeding shall be brought against the
indemnitees by reason of any matter for which the a video service provider must
indemnify the indemnitees pursuant to this section, a video service provider
shall, upon notice from any of the indemnitees, at the video service provider’s
sole cost and expense, resist and defend the same with legal counsel selected
by the video service provider and consented to by City, such consent not to be
unreasonably withheld; provided, however, that a video service provider shall
not admit liability in any such matter on behalf of the indemnitees without
their written consent, and, provided further, that indemnitees shall not admit
liability for, nor enter into any compromise or settlement of, any claim for
which they are indemnified hereunder without the prior written consent of the
video service provider.
   (E)   The indemnitees shall give a video service provider prompt notice of
the making of any claim or the commencement of any action, suit, or other
proceeding covered by the provisions of this section. Nothing herein shall be
deemed to prevent the indemnitees, at their own expense, from cooperating with
a video service provider and participating in the defense of any litigation by
its own counsel.
(Prior Code, § 24-1-15) (Ord. 19-26, passed 12-9-2019)
§ 112.16 INSURANCE.
   (A)   During the term of any video services license, the video service
provider shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, in full force and effect
and at its sole cost and expense, the following types and limits of insurance:
      (1)   Worker’s compensation insurance meeting state statutory
requirements and employer’s liability insurance with minimum limits of
$2,000,000 for each accident;
      (2)   Comprehensive commercial general liability insurance with minimum
limits of $10,000,000 as the combined single limit for each occurrence of
bodily injury, personal injury, and property damage. The policy shall include
coverage for: products and completed operations liability; contractor’s
liability; and coverage for property damage from perils of explosion, collapse,
or damage to underground utilities, commonly known as XCU coverage;
      (3)   Pollution legal liability insurance (which provides coverage for
sudden and accidental environmental contamination) with minimum limits of
$5,000,000 and providing coverage for claims discovered within three years
after the term of the policy;
      (4)   Broadcasters liability coverage for loss or damage arising out of
publications or utterances in the course of or related to advertising,
broadcasting, telecasting, or other communication activities conducted by or on
behalf of the video service provider with minimum limits of $10,000,000 as the
combined single limit for each occurrence; and
      (5)   Automobile liability insurance covering all owned, hired, and non-
owned vehicles in use by the video service provider, its employees and agents,
with personal protection insurance and property protection insurance to comply
with the provisions of the state’s No-Fault Insurance Law, with minimum limits
of $2,000,000 as the combined single limit for each occurrence for bodily
injury and property damage.
   (B)   All insurance policies, other than those for worker’s compensation and
pollution legal liability insurance, shall be written on an occurrence and not
on a claims-made basis. The coverage amounts set forth above may be met by a
combination of underlying (primary) and umbrella policies so long as in
combination the limits equal or exceed those stated. All policies of insurance
shall contain a waiver of subrogation clause.
   (C)   All policies, except for worker’s compensation policies, shall name
“The City of Coolidge, a municipal corporation of the State of Arizona and all
associated, affiliated, allied, and subsidiary entities of Coolidge, now
existing or hereafter created, and their respective officers, boards,
commissions, councils, employees, agents and contractors, as their respective
interests may appear” as additional insureds (herein referred to as the
“additional insureds”) and shall include cross liability coverage.
Additionally, all insurance policies shall be written with a zero-dollar
deductible (no deductible).
   (D)   Certificates of insurance for each insurance policy required to be
obtained by a video service provider in compliance with this section, along
with written evidence of payment of required premiums, shall be filed and
maintained with the City annually during the term a video services license. A
video service provider shall immediately advise the City of any claim or
litigation that may result in liability to the City.
   (E)   All insurance shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies,
insured by insurers licensed to do business by the state or surplus line
carriers on the state’s Insurance Director’s approved list of companies
qualified to do business in the state. All insurance carriers and surplus line
carriers shall be rated A- or better by A.M. Best Company. Should the rating of
an insurance carrier or surplus carrier fall below that set forth in the
preceding sentence, then a video services provider shall either immediately
obtain policies from carriers complying with the preceding rating or the City
may obtain, at the video service provider’s expense, policies from carriers
meeting the preceding rating requirement.
   (F)   A video service provider shall either require that each and every one
of its contractors and their subcontractors carry, in full force and effect,
workers’ compensation, comprehensive general liability, and automobile
liability insurance which complies with this section, or the video service
provider may provide such coverages for any or all of its contractors or
subcontractors (such as by adding them to its own policies).
   (G)   As between City and/or additional insureds on the one hand, and a
video service provider on the other hand, if more than one policy of insurance
does or may apply to a given claim or matter, then the policy maintained by the
video service provider pursuant to the applicable video services license shall
be deemed the primary policy, and that policy shall contain a provision that
states that it is the primary policy as opposed to any other policy of
insurance that may apply to the City and/or additional insureds on any given
claim or matter. The term POLICY OF INSURANCE, as applied to City/additional
insureds, shall include any self-insurance program, self-insured retention or
deductible, or risk pooling program, or an indemnification, defense, or other
similar program purchased or maintained by the City/additional insureds.
(Prior Code, § 24-1-16) (Ord. 19-26, passed 12-9-2019)
§ 112.17 MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   The City shall notify in a timely manner each video service provider
with a uniform video services license in the City of changes to the boundaries
of the City.
   (B)   Subscribers may submit complaints about video service to the state’s
Attorney General, the Federal Communications Commission, or any other authority
provided by law.
   (C)   Audits, including audits of bundled services, of a video services
provider’s books and records shall be conducted in compliance with A.R.S. § 9-
1445.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided by law or federal regulation, a uniform
video service license is fully transferable to any person whether the transfer
arises through merger, sale, assignment, restructuring, change of control, or
other type of transaction. A transfer does not include an assignment of a
uniform video service license for the purpose of securing indebtedness. A
transfer may include less than all service areas associated with a uniform
video service license. The video service provider shall file with the City
Clerk written notice of the transfer of the uniform video service license. On
the filing of notice under this section (D), the transferee becomes the holder
of the uniform video service license.
   (E)   A uniform video services license is subject to, and shall be governed
by, all applicable provisions of federal, state, and local law. Notwithstanding
any other provisions of the uniform video services license to the contrary, the
uniform video services license shall at all times comply with all laws and
regulations of the state and federal government or any administrative agencies
thereof; provided, however, if any such state or federal law or regulations
shall require the licensee to perform any service, or shall permit the licensee
to perform any service, or shall prohibit the licensee from performing any
service, in conflict with the terms of the license or this chapter, then as
soon as possible following knowledge thereof, the licensee shall notify the
City Attorney of the point of conflict believed to exist between such
regulation or law and this chapter or the license.
   (F)   Enforcement of this chapter shall be in compliance with A.R.S. § 9-
1451.
(Prior Code, § 24-1-17) (Ord. 19-26, passed 12-9-2019)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any video service provider or other person violating any part of this
chapter shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 24-1-3) (Ord. 19-26, passed 12-9-2019)
CHAPTER 113: SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
113.01   Purpose and intent
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Classification
   
113.04   License required
   
113.05   Issuance of license
   
113.06   Fees
   
113.07   Inspection
   
113.08   Expiration of license
   
113.09   Suspension
   
113.10   Revocation
   
113.11   Transfer of license
   
113.12   Location of sexually-oriented businesses
   
113.13   Additional regulations for adult motels
   
113.14   Additional regulations for exhibition of sexually explicit films,
videos, or live entertainment in viewing rooms
   
113.15   Additional regulations for escort agencies
   
113.16   Additional regulations for nude model studios
   
113.17   Additional regulations concerning public nudity
   
113.18   Prohibition against children in a sexually-oriented business
   
113.19   Hours of operation
   
113.20   Exemptions
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate adult-oriented businesses, to
promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of the
City, and to avoid and mitigate the detrimental secondary affects of adult-
oriented businesses through content neutral regulations. It is not the purpose
of this chapter to impose a limitation or restriction on the content of any
communicative materials, including sexually-oriented materials, or to restrict
or deny access by adults to sexually-oriented materials protected by the First
Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually-
oriented entertainment to their intended market. This chapter is not intended
to interfere with or suppress legitimate expression or any speech activities
protected by the First Amendment to the United States Constitution nor is it
intended to permit any use or activity which is otherwise prohibited or made
punishable by law.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-1)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin-operated, slug-operated, or for any form of consideration, or
electronically, electrically, or mechanically controlled still or motion
picture machines, projectors, video or laser disc players, or other image-
producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per
machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by the depicting or describing of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE. 
      (1)   A commercial establishment which, as one of its principal purposes,
offers for sale or rental for any form of consideration any one or more of the
following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides, or other visual representations which are characterized by the
depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas; or
         (b)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for
use in connection with specified sexual activities.
      (2)   A commercial establishment may have other principal business
purposes that do not involve the offering for sale or rental of material
depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas and still be categorized as an ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or
ADULT VIDEO STORE. Such other business purposes will not serve to exempt such
commercial establishments from being categorized as an ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT
NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE so long as one of its principal business
purposes is the offering for sale or rental for consideration the specified
materials which are characterized by the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features:
      (1)   Employees who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nude;
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities; or
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel, or similar commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which
are characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas; and has a sign visible from the
public right-of-way which advertises the availability of this adult type of
photographic reproductions;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than ten hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room
for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are predominantly
characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas. ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER does not include a
theater where all viewing occurs in a common area with seating for 50 or more
persons.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity
or semi-nude, or live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who performs any service on the premises of a sexually-
oriented business on a full-time, part-time, or contract basis, whether or not
the person is denominated an employee, independent contractor, agent, or
otherwise and whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage, or other
compensation by the operator of said business. EMPLOYEE does not include a
person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or
equipment on the premises, or for the delivery of goods to the premises.
   ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
   ESTABLISH or ESTABLISHMENT. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually-oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually-
oriented business, to any sexually-oriented business;
      (3)   The additions of any sexually-oriented business to any other
existing sexually- oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually-oriented business.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually-oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on
the application for a license; and in the case of an employee, a person in
whose name a license has been issued authorizing employment in a sexually-
oriented business.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears semi-nude, in a
state of nudity, or who displays specified anatomical areas and is provided to
be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly
depicted by other persons who pay money or any form of consideration. NUDE
MODEL STUDIO shall not include a proprietary school licensed by the state or a
college, junior college, or university supported entirely or in part by public
taxation; a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or in a
structure:
      (1)   That has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no
other advertising that indicates a nude or semi-nude person is available for
viewing; and
      (2)   Where, in order to participate in a class, a student must enroll at
least three days in advance of the class.
   NUDITY or A STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft, or cleavage with less than a
fully opaque covering, the showing of the female breast with less than a fully
opaque covering of any part of the nipple, or the showing of the covered male
genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, limited
liability company, association, or other legal entity.
   SEMI-NUDE or IN A SEMI-NUDE CONDITION. The showing of the female breast
below a horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest point or
the showing of the male or female buttocks. This definition shall include the
entire lower portion of the human female breast, but shall not include any
portion of the cleavage of the human female breast exhibited by a dress,
blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other wearing apparel provided the
areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A non-medical business or commercial enterprise
that, as one of its principal business purposes, offers for any form of
consideration:
      (1)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude;
or
      (2)   The matching and/or exchanging of persons for specified sexual
activities.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture
theater, adult theater, escort agency, nude model studio, or sexual encounter
center.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Includes:
      (1)   The human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered; or
      (2)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, or a female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY. Any of the following offenses:
      (1)   Prostitution or promotion of prostitution; dissemination of
obscenity; sale, distribution, or display of harmful material to a minor;
sexual performance by a child; possession or distribution of child pornography;
public lewdness; indecent exposure; indecency with a child; engaging in
organized criminal activity; sexual assault; molestation of a child; gambling;
or distribution of a controlled substance; or any similar offenses to those
described above under the criminal or penal code of other states or countries
for which:
         (a)   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is
the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
         (b)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
         (c)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanor
offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24-month
period.
      (2)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect
on the disqualification of the applicant or a person residing with the
applicant.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts;
      (2)   Sex acts, actual or simulated, including intercourse, oral
copulation, masturbation, or sodomy; or
      (3)   Excretory functions as part of, or in connection with, any of the
activities set forth in sections (1) and (2) above.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. The increase in
floor area occupied by the business by more than 25%, as the floor area exists
on the date this chapter takes effect.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. Includes
any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-2)
§ 113.03 CLASSIFICATION.
   Sexually-oriented businesses are classified as follows:
   (A)   Adult arcades;
   (B)   Adult bookstores, adult novelty stores, or adult video stores;
   (C)   Adult cabarets;
   (D)   Adult motels;
   (E)   Adult motion picture theaters;
   (F)   Adult theaters;
   (G)   Escort agencies;
   (H)   Nude model studios; and
   (I)   Sexual encounter centers.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-3)
§ 113.04 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful:
      (1)   For any person to operate a sexually-oriented business without a
valid sexually- oriented business license issued by the City pursuant to this
chapter;
      (2)   For any person who operates a sexually-oriented business to employ
a person to work for the sexually-oriented business who is not licensed as a
sexually-oriented business employee by the City pursuant to this chapter; and
      (3)   For any person to obtain employment with a sexually-oriented
business without having secured a sexually-oriented business employee license
pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   An application for a license must be made on a form provided by the
City.
   (C)   All applicants must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter. The application may request and the applicant shall provide such
information (including fingerprints) as to enable the City to determine whether
the applicant meets the qualifications established in this chapter.
   (D)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually-oriented business is an
individual, the person must sign the application for a license as applicant. If
a person who wishes to operate a sexually-oriented business is other than an
individual, each individual who has a 10% or greater interest in the business
must sign the application for a license as applicant. Each applicant must be
qualified under §
113.05 and each applicant shall be considered a licensee if a license is
granted. The completed application for a sexually-oriented business license
shall contain the following information and shall be accompanied by the
following documents:
      (1)   If the applicant is:
         (a)   An individual, the individual shall state his or her legal name
and any aliases and submit proof that he or she is 18 years of age;
         (b)   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name,
and the names of all partners, whether the partnership is general or limited,
and a copy of the partnership agreement, if any; or
         (c)   A corporation or limited liability company, the corporation or
limited liability company shall state its complete name, the date of its
incorporation, evidence that the corporation or limited liability company is in
good standing under the laws of its state of incorporation, the names and
capacity of all officers, directors, and stockholders or all members if the
entity is a limited liability company, and the name of the registered statutory
agent and the address of the registered office for service of process.
      (2)   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually-oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant, he or she must state the
sexually-oriented business’ fictitious name and submit the required
registration documents;
      (3)   Whether the applicant, or a person residing with the applicant, has
been convicted of a specified criminal activity as defined in this chapter,
and, if so, the specified criminal activity involved, the date, place, and
jurisdiction of each;
      (4)   Whether the applicant, or a person residing with the applicant, has
had a previous license under this chapter or other similar sexually-oriented
business ordinances from another municipality or county denied, suspended, or
revoked, including the name and location of the sexually- oriented business for
which the permit was denied, suspended, or revoked, as well as the date of the
denial, suspension, or revocation, and whether the applicant or a person
residing with the applicant has been a partner in a partnership or an officer,
director, or stockholder of a corporation or a member of a limited liability
company that is licensed under this chapter whose license has previously been
denied, suspended, or revoked, including the name and location of the sexually-
oriented business for which the permit was denied, suspended, or revoked as
well as the date of denial, suspension, or revocation;
      (5)   Whether the applicant or a person residing with the applicant holds
any other licenses under this chapter or other similar sexually-oriented
business ordinance from another municipality or county and, if so, the names
and locations of such other licensed businesses;
      (6)   The single classification of license for which the applicant is
filing;
      (7)   The location of the proposed sexually-oriented business, including
a legal description of the property, street address, and telephone number(s),
if any;
      (8)   The applicant’s mailing address and residential address;
      (9)   A recent photograph of the applicant(s);
      (10)   The applicant’s driver’s license number, Social Security number,
and/or his or her state or federally issued tax identification number;
      (11)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches;
      (12)   A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared within 30
days prior to application by a registered land surveyor depicting the property
lines and the structures containing any existing sexually-oriented businesses
within 1,500 feet of the property to be certified; the property lines of any
established religious institution/synagogue, school, or public park or
recreation area within 1,500 feet of the property to be certified. For purposes
of this section, a use shall be considered EXISTING OR ESTABLISHED if it is in
existence at the time an application is submitted; and
      (13)   If an applicant wishes to operate a sexually-oriented business,
other than an adult motel, which shall exhibit on the premises, in a viewing
room or booth of less than 150 square feet of floor space, films, video
cassettes, other video reproductions, or live entertainment which depict
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, then the applicant
shall comply with the application requirements set forth in §
113.14.
   (E)   Before any applicant may be issued a sexually-oriented business
employee license, the applicant shall submit on a form to be provided by the
City the following information:
      (1)   The applicant’s name or any other name (including “stage” names) or
aliases used by the individual;
      (2)   Age, date, and place of birth;
      (3)   Height, weight, and hair and eye color;
      (4)   Present residence address and telephone number;
      (5)   Present business address and telephone number;
      (6)   Date, issuing state, and number of driver’s permit or other
identification card information;
      (7)   Social Security number; and
      (8)   Proof that the individual is at least 18 years of age.
   (F)   Attached to the application form for a sexually-oriented business
employee license, as provided above, shall be the following:
      (1)   A color photograph of the applicant clearly showing the applicant’s
face and the applicant’s fingerprints on a form provided by the City’s Police
Department. Any fees for the photographs and fingerprints shall be paid by the
applicant;
      (2)   A statement detailing the license history of the applicant for the
five years immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application,
including whether such applicant previously operated or is seeking to operate,
in this or any other county, City, or state has ever had a license, permit, or
authorization to do business denied, revoked, or suspended, or had any
professional or vocational license or permit denied, revoked, or suspended. In
the event of any such denial, revocation, or suspension, state the name, the
name of the issuing or denying jurisdiction, and describe in full the reason
for the denial, revocation, or suspension. A copy of any order of denial,
revocation, or suspension shall be attached to the application; and
      (3)   A statement whether the applicant has been convicted of a specified
criminal activity as defined in this chapter and, if so, the specified criminal
activity involved, the date, place, and jurisdiction of each.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-4) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.05 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon the filing of said application for a sexually-oriented business
employee license, the City Clerk shall issue a temporary license to said
applicant. The application shall then be referred to the appropriate City
departments for an investigation to be made on such information as is contained
on the application. The application process shall be completed within 30 days
from the date the completed application is filed. After the investigation, the
City Clerk shall issue a license, unless it is determined by a preponderance of
the evidence that one or more of the following findings is true:
      (1)   The applicant has failed to provide information reasonably
necessary for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application form;
      (2)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years;
      (3)   The applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal activity
as defined in this chapter;
      (4)   The sexually-oriented business employee license is to be used for
employment in a business prohibited by local or state law, statute, rule, or
regulation, or prohibited by a particular provision of this chapter; or
      (5)   The applicant has had a sexually-oriented business employee license
revoked by the City within two years of the date of the current application. If
the sexually-oriented business employee license is denied, the temporary
license previously issued is immediately deemed null and void. Denial,
suspension, or revocation of a license issued pursuant to this section shall be
subject to appeal as set forth in §
113.10.
   (B)   A license granted pursuant to this section shall be subject to annual
renewal upon the written application of the applicant and a finding by the City
that the applicant has not been convicted of any specified criminal activity,
as defined in this chapter, or committed any act during the existence of the
previous license which would be grounds to deny the initial license
application. The renewal of the license shall be subject to the payment of the
fee as set forth in §
130.06.
   (C)   Within 30 days after receipt of a completed sexually-oriented business
application, the City Clerk shall approve or deny the issuance of a license to
an applicant. The City Clerk shall approve the issuance of a license to an
applicant unless it is determined by a preponderance of the evidence that one
or more of the following findings is true:
      (1)   An applicant is under 18 years of age;
      (2)   An applicant or a person with whom applicant is residing is overdue
in payment to the City of taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed against or
imposed upon him or her in relation to any business;
      (3)   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form;
      (4)   An applicant or a person with whom the applicant is residing has
been denied a license by the City to operate a sexually-oriented business
within the preceding 12 months or whose license to operate a sexually-oriented
business has been revoked within the preceding 12 months;
      (5)   An applicant or a person with whom the applicant is residing has
been convicted of a specified criminal activity defined in this chapter;
      (6)   The premises to be used for the sexually-oriented business have not
been approved by the County Health Department, City’s Fire Department, or the
Building Official as being in compliance with applicable laws and ordinances;
      (7)   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid; or
      (8)   An applicant of the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with any of the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, the address of
the sexually-oriented business, and the classification for which the license is
issued pursuant to §
113.03. All licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the sexually-oriented business so that they may be easily read at
any time.
   (E)   The County Health Department, City’s Fire Department, and the Building
Official shall complete their certification that the premises is in compliance
or not in compliance within 20 days of receipt of the application by the City.
   (F)   A sexually-oriented business license shall issue for only one
classification as found in §
113.03.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-5)
§ 113.06 FEES.
   (A)   Every application for a sexually-oriented business license (whether
for a new license or for renewal of an existing license) shall be accompanied
by a $500 nonrefundable application and investigation fee.
   (B)   In addition to the application and investigation fee required above,
every sexually-oriented business that is granted a license (new or renewal)
shall pay to the City an annual non-refundable license fee of $500 within 30
days of license issuance or renewal.
   (C)   Every application for a sexually-oriented business employee license
(whether for a new license or for renewal of an existing license) shall be
accompanied by an annual $100 non-refundable application, investigation, and
license fee.
   (D)   All license applications and fees shall be submitted to the City
Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-6)
§ 113.07 INSPECTION.
   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of City Police
Department, the County Health Department, City Fire Department, City Zoning
Department, or other City departments or agencies to inspect the premises of a
sexually-oriented business for the purpose of insuring compliance with the law,
at any time it is occupied or open for business.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-7) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.08 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each license shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may
be renewed only by making application as provided in §
113.04. Application for renewal shall be made at least 30 days before the
expiration date, and when made less than 30 days before the expiration date,
the expiration of the license will not be affected.
   (B)   When the City Clerk denies renewal of a license, the applicant shall
not be issued a license for one year from the date of denial. If, subsequent to
denial, the City Clerk finds that the basis for denial of the renewal license
has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at
least 90 days have elapsed since the date denial became final.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-8)
§ 113.09 SUSPENSION.
   The City Clerk shall immediately suspend a license for a period not to
exceed 30 days if a licensee or an employee of a licensee has:
   (A)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter; or
   (B)   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually-oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-9)
§ 113.10 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall revoke a license if a cause of suspension in §
113.09 occurs and the license has been suspended within the preceding 12
months.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall revoke a license if:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process;
      (2)   A licensee has knowingly allowed possession, use, or sale of
controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the premises;
      (4)   A licensee knowingly operated the sexually-oriented business during
a period of time when the licensee’s license was suspended;
      (5)   Except in the case of an adult motel, a licensee has knowingly
allowed any act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation,
or other sex act to occur in or on the licensed premises; or
      (6)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the City, county, or state
for any taxes or fees past due.
   (C)   When the City Clerk revokes a license, the revocation shall continue
for one year and the licensee shall not be issued any sexually-oriented
business license for one year from the date the revocation became effective.
If, subsequent to revocation, the City Clerk finds that the basis for the
revocation has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license
if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date the revocation became
effective.
   (D)   After denial of an application, or denial of a renewal of an
application, or suspension or revocation of any license, the applicant or
licensee may seek prompt judicial review of such administrative action in any
court of competent jurisdiction. The administrative action shall be promptly
reviewed by the court.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-10)
§ 113.11 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually-oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the application.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-11)
§ 113.12 LOCATION OF SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   A person commits a misdemeanor if that person operates or causes to be
operated a sexually-oriented business in any zoning district not permitted in
the City’s zoning code.
   (B)   A person commits a misdemeanor if the person operates or causes to be
operated a sexually-oriented business within 1,500 feet of:
      (1)   A church, synagogue, mosque, temple, or building which is used
primarily for religious worship and related religious activities;
      (2)   A public or private educational facility, including, but not
limited to, child day care facilities, nursery schools, preschools,
kindergartens, elementary schools, private schools, intermediate schools,
junior high schools, middle schools, high schools, vocational schools,
secondary schools, continuation schools, special education schools, junior
colleges, and universities; SCHOOL includes the school grounds, but does not
include facilities used primarily for another purpose and only incidentally as
a school;
      (3)   A boundary of a residential district as defined in the City’s
zoning code;
      (4)   A public park or recreational area which has been designated for
park or recreational activities, including, but not limited to, a park,
playground, nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball
or tennis courts, pedestrian/bicycle paths, wilderness areas, or other similar
public land within the City which is under the control, operation, or
management of the City park and recreation authorities;
      (5)   The property line of a lot devoted to a residential use as defined
in the City’s zoning code;
      (6)   An entertainment business which is oriented primarily towards
children or family entertainment; or
      (7)   A licensed premises, licensed pursuant to the alcoholic beverage
control regulations of the state.
   (C)   A person commits a misdemeanor if that person causes or permits the
operation, establishment, substantial enlargement, or transfer of ownership or
control of a sexually-oriented business within 1,000 feet of another sexually-
oriented business.
   (D)   A person commits a misdemeanor if that person causes or permits the
operation, establishment, or maintenance of more than one sexually-oriented
business in the same building, structure, or portion thereof, or the increase
of floor area of any sexually-oriented business in any building, structure, or
portion thereof containing another sexually-oriented business.
   (E)   For the purpose of section (B) above, measurement shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to the intervening structures or objects, from
the nearest portion of the building or structure used as the part of the
premises where a sexually-oriented business is conducted, to the nearest
property line of the premises of a use listed in section (B) above. Presence of
a City, county, or other political subdivision boundary shall be irrelevant for
purposes of calculating and applying the distance requirements of this section.
   (F)   For purposes of section (C) above, the distance between any two
sexually-oriented businesses shall be measured in a straight line, without
regard to the intervening structures or objects or political boundaries, from
the closest exterior wall of the structure in which each business is located.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-12) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.13 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT MOTELS.
   (A)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel, or a similar
commercial establishment has been rented and vacated two or more times in a
period of time that is less than ten hours creates a rebuttable presumption
that the establishment is an adult motel, as that term is defined in this
chapter.
   (B)   A person commits a misdemeanor if, as the person in control of a
sleeping room in a hotel, motel, or similar commercial establishment that does
not have a sexually-oriented business license, he or she rents or subrents a
sleeping room to a person and, within ten hours from the time the room is
rented, he or she rents or subrents the same sleeping room again.
   (C)   For purposes of section (B) above, the terms RENT or SUBRENT mean the
act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of consideration.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-13) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.14 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS,
VIDEOS, OR LIVE ENTERTAINMENT IN VIEWING ROOMS.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually-oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video
cassette, live entertainment, or other video reproduction which depicts
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with
the following requirements.
      (1)   An application for a sexually-oriented business license shall be
accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan thereof specifying the
location of one or more manager’s stations and the location of all overhead
lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the premises in which patrons
will not be permitted. A manager’s station may not exceed 32 square feet of
floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place at which the permit will
be conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the
nature of an engineer’s or architect’s blueprint shall not be required;
however, each diagram should be oriented to the north or to some designated
street or object and should be drawn to a designated scale or with marked
dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimensions of all areas of
the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches. The
City Clerk may waive the foregoing diagram for renewal applications if the
applicant adopts a diagram that was previously submitted and certifies that the
configuration of the premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
      (2)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      (3)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager’s
station may be made without the prior approval of the City Clerk.
      (4)   It is the duty of the licensee of the premises to ensure that at
least one licensed employee is on duty and situated in each manager’s station
at all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      (5)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two or more manager’s stations designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose from at least one of the manager’s stations. The view required in
this section (A)(5) must be by direct line of sight from the manager’s station.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that the view area
specified in section (A)(5) above remains unobstructed by any doors, curtains,
partitions, walls, merchandise, display racks, or other materials and, at all
times, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises
which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted in
the application filed pursuant to section (A)(1) above.
      (7)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any
time.
      (8)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than five foot-candles as measured at the
floor level.
      (9)   It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that the
illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
      (10)   No licensee shall allow openings of any kind to exist between
viewing rooms or booths.
      (11)   No person shall make or attempt to make an opening of any kind
between viewing booths or rooms.
      (12)   The licensee shall, during each business day, regularly inspect
the walls between the viewing booths to determine if any openings or holes
exist.
      (13)   The licensee shall cause all floor coverings in viewing booths to
be nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces, with no rugs or carpeting.
      (14)   The licensee shall cause all wall surfaces and ceiling surfaces in
viewing booths to be constructed of, or permanently covered by, nonporous,
easily cleanable material. No wood, plywood, composition board, or other porous
material shall be used within 48 inches of the floor.
   (B)   A person having a duty under section (A) above commits a misdemeanor
if he or she knowingly fails to fulfill that duty.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-14) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.15 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ESCORT AGENCIES.
   (A)   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A person commits a misdemeanor if the person acts as an escort or
agrees to act as an escort for any person under the age of 18 years.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-15) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.16 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR NUDE MODEL STUDIOS.
   (A)   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A person under the age of 18 years commits a misdemeanor if the person
appears semi- nude or in a state of nudity in or on the premises of a nude
model studio. It is a defense to prosecution under this section (B) if the
person under 18 years was in a restroom not open to public view or visible to
any other person.
   (C)   A person commits a misdemeanor if the person appears in a state of
nudity, or knowingly allows another to appear in a state of nudity in an area
of a nude model studio premises which can be viewed from the public right-of-
way.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-16) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.17 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS CONCERNING PUBLIC NUDITY.
   (A)   It shall be a misdemeanor for a person who knowingly and
intentionally, in a sexually- oriented business, appears in a state of nudity
or depicts specified sexual activities.
   (B)   It shall be a misdemeanor for a person who knowingly or intentionally
in a sexually- oriented business appears in a semi-nude condition unless the
person is an employee who, while semi- nude, shall be at least five feet from
any patron or customer and on a stage at least two feet from the floor.
   (C)   It shall be a misdemeanor for an employee, while semi-nude in a
sexually-oriented business, to solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron or
customer or for any patron or customer to pay or give any gratuity to any
employee, while said employee is semi-nude in a sexually-oriented business.
   (D)   It shall be a misdemeanor for an employee, while semi-nude, to touch a
customer or the clothing of a customer.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-17) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.18 PROHIBITION AGAINST CHILDREN IN A SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS.
   A person commits a misdemeanor if the person knowingly allows a person under
the age of 18 years on the premises of a sexually-oriented business.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-18) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.19 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No sexually-oriented business, except for an adult motel, may remain open at
any time between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on weekdays and
Saturdays, and 2:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon on Sundays.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-19) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.20 EXEMPTIONS.
   It is a defense to prosecution under §
113.17 that a person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class
operated:
   (A)   By a proprietary school licensed by the state; a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
   (B)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
   (C)   In a structure:
      (1)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no
other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing; and
      (2)   Where, in order to participate in a class, a student must enroll at
least three days in advance of the class.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-20)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of any requirement or prohibition stated in this chapter is
a Class 1 misdemeanor. With respect to a violation that is continuing in
nature, each day that the violation occurs is a separate offense.
   (B)   A person who operates a sexually-oriented business, or his or her
agent or employee, commits a misdemeanor if he or she refuses to permit such
lawful inspection, as provided in §
113.07, of the premises at any time it is open for business.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-7)
   (C)   In addition to other penalties, a sexually-oriented business which
operated without a valid license shall constitute a public nuisance, which, in
addition to any other enforcement mechanisms in this code, may be abated by a
suit for injunctive relief.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-21)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
      
131.   GRAFFITI PREVENTION, PROHIBITION, AND REMOVAL
      
132.   PUBLIC PEACE, MORALS, AND WELFARE
      
133.   CURFEW
CHAPTER 130: MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Burning
   
130.02   Dangerous or dilapidated structures
   
130.03   Damage to property
   
130.04   Deposits of injurious material on thoroughfares
   
130.05   Explosives
   
130.06   False or misleading reports to police
   
130.07   Electric fences
   
130.08   Furnishing weapons and other articles to prisoners
   
130.09   Loitering
   
130.10   Noise
   
130.11   Obstruction of streets
   
130.12   Obstruction of view
   
130.13   Offensive premises
   
130.14   Prostitution
   
130.15   Search lights
   
130.16   Signs and banners
   
130.17   Spitting
   
130.18   Urinating or defecating in public
   
130.19   Water flow upon streets prohibited
   
130.20   Weapons
   
130.21   Minors prohibited from carrying or possessing firearms; exceptions;
seizure and forfeiture
   
130.22   Interfering with or harassing police dogs
   
130.23   Trespassing on City parks
   
130.24   Possession and consumption of alcohol on City property
   
130.25   Sale of products containing Pseudo-Ephedrine
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 BURNING.
   It is unlawful for any person to burn or cause to be burned within the
corporate limits of the City any grass, leaves, brush, yard or tree trimmings,
vegetation, trash, refuse, motor vehicles, tires, rubber, plastics, papers,
rubbish, or an accumulation thereof or any other flammable or combustible
material unless the proper permit is obtained from the county air quality
control and the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 DANGEROUS OR DILAPIDATED STRUCTURES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to maintain or allow any signs,
billboards, awnings, and other similar structures over or near streets,
sidewalks, public grounds, or places frequented by the public, so situated or
constructed as to endanger the public safety.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any owner of real property to allow to be
maintained upon his or her real property any building or structure that has
become so dilapidated or deteriorated as a result of age or other causes as to
become an attractive nuisance to children or constitute a public nuisance known
to the common law or in equity jurisprudence.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-2) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 DAMAGE TO PROPERTY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to damage in any manner or attempt to
damage or tamper with any pipe lines, water hydrants, street lamps or lights,
or the fixtures and appliances thereunto belonging upon any of the poles or
other objects for use in connection with the lighting of streets of the City or
any water pipes, hydrants, or any appliances pertaining to the water or sewer
works, or any other property of any and every character belonging to the City.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to deface, walk, ride, or drive upon or
over any sidewalk or street crossing composed of or containing cement, during
the construction thereof, or before the same is thrown upon to public use.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to damage in any
manner any road, street, or bridge in the City limits by using the same, by
heavy vehicles, malicious destruction, or by any act that will result in
damages to any such road, street, or bridge.
   (D)   It is unlawful to break or destroy any window, door, or part of any
dwelling owned or occupied by another or to break or sever from any premises
owned or occupied by another any gate, fence, railing, tree, brush, or vine or
any property whatsoever, or to deface, mutilate, or injure the same.
   (E)   It is unlawful for any person within the City to throw stones or other
missiles at railroad trains; or to let off the brakes of railroad cars standing
on side tracks or tamper with couplings of railroad cars, or to uncouple cars
standing on railroad tracks, or to uncouple the air hose of the air brake
system on railroad cars; or to remove, tamper with, or break switch lamps or
other signals set to control the movements of trains, or to jump on or off
moving trains, or to throw refuse upon or in any way litter the depot or
station grounds of any railroad.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-3) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 DEPOSITS OF INJURIOUS MATERIAL ON THOROUGHFARES.
   It is unlawful for any person, either willfully or maliciously or carelessly
and negligently, to drop, throw, place, or scatter upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, or public place in the City any nails, tacks, broken glass, glass
bottles, or any instrument or thing whatsoever of such nature as to be capable
of injuring persons or property.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-4) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 EXPLOSIVES.
   It is unlawful for any person within the City limits of the City to blast,
or use powder, or other explosives without a written permit from the Chief of
Police.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-5) (Ord. 10-16, passed 11-22-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 FALSE OR MISLEADING REPORTS TO POLICE.
   It is unlawful for any person willfully to make the Police Department of the
City any false, fraudulent, misleading, or unfounded report or statement, or
willfully to misinterpret any fact for the purpose of interfering with the
operation of the Police Department or with the intention of misleading any
police officer.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-6) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 ELECTRIC FENCES.
   It is unlawful for any person to erect or maintain within the City any
electric fence.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-7) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08 FURNISHING WEAPONS AND OTHER ARTICLES TO PRISONERS.
   It is unlawful for any person to furnish or attempt to furnish or take into
a jail or to deliver or attempt to deliver to any prisoner therein confined, or
in the custody of any officer, any weapon, tool, intoxicating liquor, drug, or
other article without the consent of the officer in charge.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-8) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.09 LOITERING.
   It is unlawful for any person, other than the owner, manager, or his or her
authorized representative, to interfere individually or collectively with free
enjoyment of such property by the owners thereof; or interfere with the conduct
of any lawful business by obstructing entrance to such business or by
obstructing free passage of persons or merchandise or commodities within such
place of business, or by obstructing service rendered by such business to its
customers.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-9) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.10 NOISE.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and it is unlawful for
any person, firm, or corporation owning or operating or in control of any
restaurant, hotel, dance hall, show, stores, or any place of public amusement,
entertainment, or accommodation, to play or permit to be played any music or
musical instrument or instruments whether played by individuals, orchestra,
radio, phonograph, music box, or other mechanical device or means in such a
loud or unusual manner as to be offensive to the senses, or as to disturb the
sleep, peace, and quiet, or otherwise interfere with or annoy the comfortable
enjoyment of life or property of any considerable number of persons in the
neighborhood, and is no less a nuisance because the extent of the annoyance
inflicted is unequal.
   (B)   It is unlawful to play, operate, or use any device known as a sound
track, loud speaker or sound amplifier, radio, or phonograph with loud speaker
or sound amplifier or any instrument of any kind or character which emits loud
and raucous noises and is attached to and upon any vehicle unless such person
in charge of such vehicle shall have first applied to and received permission
from the Chief of Police to operate any such vehicle so equipped.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make or continue, or cause or
permit to be made or continued, any excessive, unnecessary, or offensive noise
which disturbs the peace or quiet of any adjoining property or neighborhood or
which causes discomfort or annoyance to any reasonable person of normal
sensitivity residing in the area, including, but not limited to, the keeping of
any animals that disturb the peace by the emission of unreasonable loud noises
at any time of the day or night.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person within any residential area of the
City to repair, rebuild, or test any motor vehicle between the hours of 8:00
p.m. of one day and 5:00 a.m. of the next day in such a manner as to create an
excessive, unnecessary, or offensive noise, such that a reasonable person of
normal sensitivity residing in the area is caused discomfort or annoyance.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, construction or repair work shall not begin
prior to 7:00 a.m. and must stop by 7:00 p.m. on any Saturday, Sunday, or
holiday, unless such other times are allowed by written authorization as set
forth in section (F) below.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person, between the hours of 8:00 p.m.
and 5:00 a.m. the following day, to operate or maintain equipment or perform
any outside construction or repair work on buildings, structures, or projects,
or to operate any pile driver, power shovel, pneumatic hammer, derrick, power
hoist, or any other construction type device within 500 feet of a completed and
occupied residential structure. This prohibition shall further extend to all
construction-related activity, including set-up work and travel to and from the
construction site, and under no circumstance shall construction travel which
passes within 500 feet of a completed and occupied residential structure occur
outside the times set forth herein, unless such other times are allowed
pursuant to section (F) below. On Saturday, Sunday, or any holiday recognized
by the City, such construction or repair work shall not begin prior to 7:00
a.m. and must stop by 7:00 p.m., unless such other times are allowed by written
authorization as set forth in section (F) below.
   (F)   Exceptions are as follows.
      (1)   Construction and repair work otherwise may be conducted at
different times and at higher noise levels than otherwise permitted, if upon
written application to the City’s Growth Management Department or Public Works
Department, as applicable, a permit is obtained beforehand from the applicable
City department. The permit shall be kept on the work site and shown to City
officials or the City law enforcement agent on request. In granting such
permit, the Growth Management Director or the Public Works Director, or his or
her designee, shall consider if construction noise in the vicinity of the
proposed work site would be less objectionable at night than during the daytime
because of different population levels or different neighboring activities; if
obstruction and interference with traffic, particularly on streets of major
importance, would be less objectionable at night than during the daytime; if
the kind of work to be performed emits noises at such a low level as to not
cause significant disturbance in the vicinity of the work site; if the
neighborhood of the proposed work site is of such a character wherein sleep
could be disturbed; if great economic hardship would occur if the work was
spread over a longer time; if the work will abate or prevent hazards to life or
property; if proposed early morning or night work is in the general public
interest; and the Growth Management Director or the Public Works Director shall
prescribe in the permit such allowable conditions, working times, types of
construction equipment to be used, and permissible noise emissions as he or she
deems to be required in the public interest.
      (2)   Other work, activities, or actions that otherwise would violate
this section may be conducted at different times and at higher noise levels
than otherwise permitted, if upon written application to the Growth Management
Department or Public Works Department, as applicable, a permit is obtained
beforehand from the applicable City department. The permit shall be kept on the
site and shown to City officials or the City law enforcement agent on request
and the Growth Management Director or the Public Works Director may prescribe
in the permit such allowable conditions, times, restrictions, and permissible
noise emissions as he or she deems to be required in the public interest.
   (G)   The following additional uses and activities shall be exempt from the
provisions of this section:
      (1)   Noise from the normal operation of railroad trains;
      (2)   Noise created by any City vehicle, equipment, or facility while
being operated for official use;
      (3)   Operation of agricultural equipment in connection with farming
operations;
      (4)   Any aircraft operated in conformity with, or pursuant to, federal
law, federal air regulations, or air traffic control instructions issued
pursuant to or within duly adopted federal air regulations, together with any
noise created by aircraft operated under, or pursuant to, declaration of an
emergency under federal air regulations; and
      (5)   NOISES RESULTING FROM EMERGENCY WORK, which for purposes of this
section, shall mean work performed to prevent or alleviate physical trauma or
property damage threatened or caused by an emergency which has or may result in
a disruption of service and which is necessary to protect the health, safety,
and welfare of persons or property.
   (H)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for a person to operate or permit the
operation of the engine of a commercial vehicle so as to assist in braking or
slowing the vehicle through the use of any engine brake or engine retarding
device on any street or roadway within the City unless the vehicle is an
emergency services vehicle.
      (2)   The City’s Public Works Department shall post signs at the primary
entrances to the City as deemed necessary to notify operators of commercial
vehicles of such prohibition.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-11) (Ord. 08-11, passed 6-23-2008) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.11 OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS.
   It is unlawful for any person to willfully obstruct any public street or
alley, sidewalk, park, or other public grounds within the City or to do in or
upon any such streets, alleys, sidewalks, parks, or other public grounds, any
act or thing which is in an obstruction or interference to the free use of
property or with any business lawfully conducted by anyone, in or upon, or
facing or fronting on any such streets, alleys, sidewalks, parks, or other
public grounds in the City.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-12) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.12 OBSTRUCTION OF VIEW.
   It is unlawful for any person to maintain or allow any tree, hedge,
billboard, or other obstruction which prevent persons driving vehicles on
public streets, alleys, or highways from obtaining a clear view of traffic when
approaching an intersection or pedestrian crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-13) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.13 OFFENSIVE PREMISES.
   It is unlawful for any person to suffer, or permit any premises belonging to
or occupied by him or her, or any cellar, privy, vault, pool, sewer, or private
drain therein to become nauseous, foul, or offensive to the senses or
prejudicial to the public health or comfort.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-14) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.14 PROSTITUTION.
   A person is guilty of a misdemeanor who:
   (A)   Solicits or hires another person to commit an act of prostitution as
defined by state law; and/or
   (B)   Aids, abets, or solicits for a prostitute the commission of any act of
prostitution as defined by state law.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-15) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.15 SEARCH LIGHTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to operate within the City any
incandescent or arc type searchlight, beacon light, or similar lighting device
designed to and capable of projecting a beam of light into the sky for a
distance in excess of one-half mile unless permission is obtained from the
Manager.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to emergency
searchlights or beacons operated pursuant to public authority.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-16) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.16 SIGNS AND BANNERS.
   It is unlawful for any person to place any banner or sign upon any street
light pole, traffic signal, or utility pole within the City without first
obtaining authorization from the Manager.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-17) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.17 SPITTING.
   It is unlawful for any person to spit upon any of the public sidewalks or
crosswalks or upon the floor or interior of any public building in the City.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-18) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.18 URINATING OR DEFECATING IN PUBLIC.
   It is unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate upon any public
sidewalks or crosswalks in the City or upon any public path, by-way or highway,
or in or on any public place or park which is readily accessible from a public
thoroughfare, except inside suitable restrooms provided therefor.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-19) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.19 WATER FLOW UPON STREETS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to willfully or negligently permit or
cause the escape or flow of water in such quantity as to cause flooding, to
impede vehicular or pedestrian traffic, to create a hazardous condition to such
traffic, or to cause damage to the public streets of the City.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to willfully or negligently permit or
cause the escape or flow of water in such quantity as to cause flooding, to
impede vehicular traffic, or to cause damage to the public streets of the City
through failure to neglect to properly operate or maintain any structure,
delivery ditch, or waste ditch in which said person has a vested right or
interest in through the willful or negligent failure of said person to accept
water after it has been ordered by him or her.
   (C)   Swimming pools should be drained to the property to irrigate the
landscape on the property whenever possible. If it is not possible to contain
all the water from the swimming pool on the property, the water from the
swimming pool should be drained into the sanitary sewer cleanout on the
property.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-20) (Ord. 21-06, passed 4-26-2021) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.20 WEAPONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person within the limits of the City to fire or
discharge a firearm, BB gun, air gun, pellet gun, dart gun, slingshot, gas
operated gun, or other similar gun instrument.
   (B)   The prohibitions of section (A) above shall not apply to the use of
any such gun or instrument by:
      (1)   A law enforcement officer or other duly authorized public official
or employee in the performance of any official duty;
      (2)   Any person to whom a license, permit, or authority is issued by the
Chief of Police of the City for the use of such gun or instrument for a valid
and proper purpose and for use in a manner not likely to harm any person,
animal, or property; or
      (3)   Any person when used only for the necessary protection of property,
habitation, or person in a manner authorized by the laws of the state or within
rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the State or the United States of
America.
   (C)   Any person other than a peace officer on duty carrying a weapon, upon
entering any public place or attending and public event, may be required by the
operator of the establishment or the sponsor of the event to remove his or her
weapon and place it in the custody of the operator of the establishment or the
sponsor of the event.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-21) Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
   Minor in possession, see §
130.99(G)
§ 130.21 MINORS PROHIBITED FROM CARRYING OR POSSESSING FIREARMS; EXCEPTIONS;
SEIZURE AND FORFEITURE.
   (A)   Except as provided in section (B) below, an unemancipated person who
is under 18 years of age and who is unaccompanied by a parent, grandparent, or
guardian, or a certified hunter safety instructor or certified firearms safety
instructor acting with the consent of the unemancipated person’s parent or
guardian shall not knowingly carry or possess on his or her person, within his
or her immediate control, or in or on a means of transportation a firearm in
any place that is open to the public or on any street or highway or on any
private property except private property owned or leased by the minor or the
minor’s parent, grandparent, or guardian.
   (B)   This section does not apply to a person who is 14, 15, 16, or 17 years
of age and is any of the following:
      (1)   Engaged in lawful hunting or shooting events or marksmanship
practice at established ranges or other areas where the discharge of a firearm
is not prohibited;
      (2)   Engaged in lawful transportation of an unloaded firearm for the
purpose of lawful hunting; or
      (3)   Engaged in lawful transportation of an unloaded firearm between the
hours of 5:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. for the purpose of shooting events or
marksmanship practice at established ranges or other areas where the discharge
of a firearm is not prohibited.
   (C)   If the minor is not exempt under section (B) above and is in
possession of a firearm, a peace officer may seize the firearm and hold it
until the agency returns the firearm to the parent or guardian or initiates
forfeiture proceedings pursuant to A.R.S. Title 13, Chapter 31.
   (D)   If the firearm is not returned to the parent or guardian pursuant to
section (C) above, it shall be held by the law enforcement agency responsible
for the seizure until the charges have been adjudicated or otherwise disposed
of and until the conclusion of any forfeiture proceedings. Upon adjudication of
a person for a violation of this section, the court, in accordance with A.R.S.
Title 13, Chapter 31, shall order the firearm forfeited and sold, destroyed, or
disposed of otherwise.
   (E)    If the court finds that the parent or guardian of a minor found
responsible for violating this section knew of the minor’s unlawful conduct and
made no effort to prohibit it, the parent or guardian is jointly and severally
responsible for any fine imposed pursuant to this section.
   (F)   This section is supplemental to any other law imposing a criminal
penalty for the use or exhibition of a deadly weapon. A minor who violates this
section may be prosecuted and convicted for any other criminal conduct
involving the use or exhibition of the deadly weapon.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-22) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.22 INTERFERING WITH OR HARASSING POLICE DOGS.
   (A)   While a police service dog (K-9) is being caged, kenneled,
transported, exhibited, exercised, or engaged in discharging or attempting to
discharge any lawful duty or function, it is unlawful to and no person shall
either:
      (1)   Intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly kill, injure, strike,
interfere with, arouse, harass, or bait a police service dog (K-9); or
      (2)   Cause or direct any animal to attack or otherwise interfere with or
harass the police service dog (K-9).
   (B)   A police officer may destroy any animal attacking a police service dog
(K-9) if no lesser means are reasonably available to prevent injury to the
police dog (K-9).
   (C)   A POLICE SERVICE DOG, as used in this section, shall mean any dog
which is a member of any Police Department (K-9) unit.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-23) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.23 TRESPASSING ON CITY PARKS.
   (A)   All City parks shall be closed to public and private use between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. each day except for special events sanctioned
by the City or where individuals or groups have obtained a permit from the
City’s Parks and Recreation Department for use during said period of time.
   (B)   No person entering a City park at any time shall possess glass
containers normally used for containing food or beverage.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-24) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.24 POSSESSION AND CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOL ON CITY PROPERTY.
   (A)   No alcoholic beverages shall be possessed or consumed on any property
owned, leased, or controlled by the City, including, but not limited to: all
City parks, City Hall, Council Chambers, Women’s Club, and all other property
owned or leased by the City, or maintained by the City, unless specifically
approved and authorized under the provisions of this section. The provisions of
this section shall not apply to property owned by the City and leased to other
persons or entities; provided, however, that the terms of any such lease may
contain provisions restricting or prohibiting the possession and consumption of
alcohol on such leased property.
   (B)   The office of the City Clerk may authorize the possession and
consumption of alcoholic beverages at the Women’s Club, the Adult Center,
Regional Park, or San Carlos Park under the following conditions.
      (1)   The person desiring permission to possess or consume alcoholic
beverages at such authorized location shall complete, sign, and file a written
application for a permit, and becomes therefor the designated responsible
person to be in charge of the event or occasion for which such permission is
sought.
      (2)   An entity or organization desiring permission to possess or consume
alcoholic beverages at such authorized location shall complete, sign, and file
a written application for a permit, and designate a responsible person to be in
charge of the event or occasion for which such permission is sought.
      (3)   The responsible person identified in the application and permit
shall be 21 years of age or older; shall ensure compliance with the provisions
of the permit, this section, and the liquor laws of the state; and shall ensure
that no person under the age of 21 years possesses or consumes alcohol in
connection with any activity authorized by the permit.
      (4)   The office of the City Clerk shall provide appropriate forms for
such application.
      (5)   Any such permit issued for Regional Park or San Carlos Park shall
authorize the possession and consumption of beer and wine only, and shall
prohibit the use, distribution, possession, or consumption of alcohol from
glass cups, containers, and bottles.
      (6)   Any such permit issued for the Women’s Club or Adult Center shall
authorize the possession and consumption of any alcoholic beverage.
      (7)   The applicant shall state on the application form whether the
applicant will sell any alcoholic beverage, or collect any money from any
person or entity for the possession or consumption of alcohol in any manner
which requires the issuance of a special liquor license under the laws of the
state, in which case, the following additional requirements shall apply.
         (a)   The office of the City Clerk shall forward the application to
the City Council for final approval.
         (b)   The applicant shall provide proof of liability insurance for the
event or occasion in an amount approved by the City Council, naming the City as
an additional insured party.
         (c)   The City Council may require the applicant to pay for or provide
security for the event or occasion and shall designate the hours during which
alcoholic beverages may be possessed or consumed.
         (d)   The City Council shall not approve the application or permit
without proof of the issuance of a special event liquor license under the laws
of the state.
         (e)   The City Council may issue the permit conditioned on such other
matters as the Council deems necessary and appropriate for the public peace,
health, and safety.
      (8)   In addition to complying with the use rules and regulations of the
park or facility for which the permit is issued, the applicant shall also
comply with the following additional rules and regulations.
         (a)   The responsible person must restrict the possession and
consumption of alcohol to the specific area designated on the permit.
         (b)   The responsible person must be physically present at the
specific area during all times that alcohol is possessed and consumed by any
person under the conditions of the permit; and the responsible person shall at
all times maintain physical possession of the permit and make it available for
inspection upon request.
         (c)   The responsible person will be responsible for ensuring that all
members of the applicant’s group are of legal age to drink alcohol under state
law.
         (d)   The responsible person will be responsible for the conduct of
all members of the applicant’s group.
         (e)   The responsible person will be responsible for depositing litter
in the proper receptacles and for cleaning the area used by the applicant’s
group after the event is completed.
         (f)   Obnoxious behavior or excessive noise will not be permitted.
         (g)   The issuance of a permit under this section does not guarantee a
ramada or any specific area or any other type of reservation.
         (h)   Permits will not be issued in conjunction with any type of youth
event.
         (i)   No permit may be transferred to any other group, applicant, or
area; and no responsible person may delegate or transfer any of the duties or
rights authorized in any permit to any other person.
         (j)   Failure to comply with all permit, park, or facility rules and
regulations may forfeit the right to receive permits in the future.
         (k)   Any permit may be revoked at any time by any City police officer
or by the office of the City Clerk for any violation of the permit conditions,
park or facility rules or regulations, City ordinances and City code
provisions, liquor law, or state law. In addition to a permit revocation, the
responsible person and all members of the applicant’s group may also be
directed to immediately vacate the park or facility for which the permit was
issued.
   (C)   The Council, by motion, may suspend the permit provisions of this
section during times of City-wide events at Regional Park and San Carlos Park,
and authorize the possession and consumption of beer and wine at those times in
those locations.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-25) (Ord. 99-07, passed 8-9-1999) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.25 SALE OF PRODUCTS CONTAINING PSEUDO-EPHEDRINE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PSEUDO-EPHEDRINE PRODUCT. Any product containing ephedrine or pseudo-
ephedrine and includes any compound, mixture, or preparation that contain any
detectable quantity of ephedrine, pseudo-ephedrine, norpseudoephedrine, or
phenylpropanolamine or their salts, optical isomers, or salts of optical
isomers. Product packaging that lists ephedrine, pseudo-ephedrine,
norpseudoephedrine, or phenylpropanolamine as an active ingredient shall
constitute prima facie evidence that the product is a PSEUDO-EPHEDRINE PRODUCT.
      RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business that offers any pseudo-
ephedrine product for sale at retail.
   (B)   Products behind the counter. The operator of a retail establishment
shall keep all products containing pseudo-ephedrine behind a store counter or
otherwise in a manner that is inaccessible to customers without the assistance
of the operator or an employee of the establishment.
   (C)   Limitations on sales. It shall be prohibited for a retailer to sell
more than a total of nine grams in tablet or powdered form of ephedrine,
pseudo-ephedrine, norpseudoephedrine, or phenyl propanolamine to a person
within a 30-day period; however, this limit shall not apply to any quantity of
such tablet or powdered form of ephedrine, pseudo-ephedrine,
norpseudoephedrine, or phenylpropanolamine dispensed pursuant to a valid
prescription.
   (D)   Identification required. A person making a retail sale of a product
containing pseudo- ephedrine shall require a government-issued, photo
identification from the purchaser and shall record the purchaser’s name, date
of birth, quantity of pseudo-ephedrine product purchased, transaction date, and
the initials of the seller.
   (E)   Maintenance to information. The information required to be obtained by
section (D) above will be retained by the retail establishment for a period of
90 days, and will be considered a confidential document that will only be
available to the operator of the retail establishment, and shall be available
to the City’s Police Department officers, the state’s Department of Public
Safety officers, the County Sheriff’s Department officers, and other law
enforcement officers.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-26) (Ord. 06-03, passed 1-23-2006) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A person who violates §
130.21(A) is an incorrigible child and shall be subject to the following
penalties:
      (1)   For an offense involving an unloaded firearm, a fine of not more
than $250 and the court may order the suspension or revocation of the person’s
driver’s license; and
      (2)   For an offense involving a loaded firearm, a fine of not more than
$500 and the court may order the suspension of the person’s driver’s license.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-22)
   (C)   Any violation of §
130.22 shall be punished as a Class 1 misdemeanor in accordance with the laws
of the state.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-23)
   (D)   Any person violating §
130.23 shall be a criminal trespasser in violation of A.R.S. § 13- 1502.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-24)
   (E)   Any person who violates any provision of §
130.24, specifically including the permit applicant and its designated person
responsible for compliance with permit conditions, shall be guilty of a Class 1
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not exceeding $1,000, or imprisonment for a
term not exceeding six months, or both such fine and imprisonment, in the
discretion of the City Magistrate. Each day any violation of any provision of
this section or ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
In addition to the penalties herein above provided, any condition caused or
permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this section or
ordinance shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be abated or punished as
provided by the laws therefor, and each day that such condition continues shall
be regarded as a new and separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-25)
   (F)   A violation of §
130.25 is a Class 1 misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-26)
   (G)   A person who sells or gives to a minor under the age of 18 years,
without written consent of the minor’s parent or legal guardian, a weapon,
ammunition, or toy pistol by which dangerous and explosive substance may be
discharged, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-21) (Ord. 99-07, passed 8-9-1999; Ord. 06-03, passed 1-23-
2006)
CHAPTER 131: GRAFFITI PREVENTION, PROHIBITION, AND REMOVAL
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Graffiti prohibited
   
131.03   Accessibility to graffiti implements
   
131.04   Graffiti as nuisance; graffiti removal
   
131.05   Abatement procedures; notice; application for hardship; administrative
review
   
131.06   Rewards and reimbursements for information
   
131.07   Anti-Graffiti Trust Fund
   
131.08   Enforcement
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AEROSOL PAINT CONTAINER. Any aerosol container that is adapted or made for
the purpose of applying spray paint or other substances capable of defacing
property.
   BROAD-TIPPED MARKERS. Any type of marker or similar instrument with a flat
or angled writing surface of one-fourth-inch or greater which contains ink or
other pigmented liquid that is not water soluble.
   BUSINESS DAYS. The days Monday through Friday, excluding City holidays.
   ETCHING EQUIPMENT. Any tool, device, or substance that can be used to make
permanent marks on the surface of any property.
   GRAFFITI. Any unauthorized markings, such as initials, symbols, slogans,
emblems, or drawings written, spray-painted, etched, or sketched on a sidewalk,
wall, fence, building, sign, or any other structure or surface.
   GRAFFITI IMPLEMENT. An aerosol paint container, a broad-tipped marker, gum
label, paint stick or graffiti stick, etching equipment, brush, paintball gun,
or any other device capable of scarring or leaving a visible mark on any
natural or human-made surface.
   MINORS. Any person under the age of 18 years of age.
   PROPERTY. Any building, wall, bridge, street sign, fence, street light,
sidewalk, street, curbing, sewer or water drains, or any other structure,
whether public or privately owned.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. A property owner, tenant in possession, or other persons
responsible for the property.
   UNAUTHORIZED. Without prior written permission of the responsible party.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-1) (Ord. 07-05, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 131.02 GRAFFITI PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person may apply graffiti to any natural or human-made surface on
any publicly- owned property or any privately-owned property without the prior
written consent of the responsible party. The application of graffiti is deemed
to be an act of malicious or willful misconduct.
   (B)   No person may possess aerosol paint containers, broad-tipped markers,
etching equipment, or any other graffiti implements on any public property or
private property with the intent to violate or in violation of this chapter.
   (C)   No minor may possess aerosol paint containers, broad-tipped markers,
etching equipment, or any other graffiti implements on any public property,
structure, or facility, any school property, structure, or facility, or any
private property without prior written permission of the lawful responsible
party for the property. The provisions of this section do not apply to minors
possessing such implements for classes or organized extracurricular activities
that require the use of such implements and whose use is limited to legitimate
activities.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-2) (Ord. 07-05, passed 2-12-2007) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 ACCESSIBILITY TO GRAFFITI IMPLEMENTS.
   (A)   Furnishing to minors prohibited.
      (1)   No person may sell, give, loan, or otherwise make available any
aerosol paint containers, broad-tipped markers, etching equipment, or any other
graffiti implements to a minor unless that minor is accompanied by a parent or
legal guardian at the time of purchase or transfer, and the purchase is for
legitimate use in classes, organized extracurricular activities, or other
legitimate activities.
      (2)   No minor may furnish fraudulent identification of majority age at
the time of purchase or transfer of any aerosol paint containers, broad-tipped
markers, etching equipment, or any other graffiti implements.
   (B)   Storage of graffiti implements. Every person who owns, operates, or
manages a commercial retail establishment that sells aerosol paint containers,
broad-tipped markers, etching equipment, or any other graffiti implements must
store the implements in an area inaccessible to the public without employee or
owner assistance, or that is continuously observable through direct visual
observation or surveillance equipment by the establishment’s owners or
employees during the regular course of business.
   (C)   Signage requirements. Every person who operates a commercial retail
establishment that sells graffiti implements must:
      (1)   Place a sign at or near the display of such products stating:
“Graffiti is against the law. Any person who defaces property with paint,
markers, or any other liquid or marking device is guilty of a crime punishable
by up to six months imprisonment and/or fines up to $2,500”, or words to that
effect; and
      (2)   Place a sign in view of persons accepting customer payment for
graffiti implements stating: “Selling aerosol paint containers, broad-tipped
markers, etching equipment, or any other graffiti implements to persons under
the age of 18 is a civil offense and punishable by a fine up to $1,000”, or
words to that effect.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-3) (Ord. 07-05, passed 2-12-2007) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 GRAFFITI AS NUISANCE; GRAFFITI REMOVAL.
   (A)   The existence of graffiti on public and private property in violation
of this chapter is expressly declared to be a public nuisance.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any residential responsible party to
maintain, permit, or allow graffiti to remain on any property where graffiti is
visible from any street or other public or private property. The responsible
party of any residential property shall remove or cause to be removed any
graffiti on the property within seven calendar days of the placement of the
graffiti. Absenteeism from the property of the responsible party shall be
considered when determining a violation of this section. The responsible party
may allow the City to remove the graffiti or may remove the graffiti themselves
and apply for victim restitution during prosecution.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any commercial responsible party to maintain,
permit, or allow graffiti to remain on any property where graffiti is visible
from any street or other public or private property. The responsible party of
any commercial property shall remove or cause to be removed any graffiti on the
property within three calendar days of the placement of the graffiti. The
responsible party may allow the City to remove the graffiti or may remove the
graffiti themselves and apply for victim restitution during prosecution.
   (D)   Any person convicted of applying graffiti on public or private
property may be ordered by the court to either pay for the removal of the
graffiti, or personally remove the graffiti by painting over the defaced area,
within a specified time. Failure of any person to remove or pay for removal of
graffiti constitutes an additional violation of this chapter. If graffiti is
applied by a minor, the parents or legal guardian are also responsible for
removal or payment for removal of graffiti.
   (E)   The City is authorized, but not required, to use public funds for
graffiti abatement on public or private property. The City is not required to
paint, remove, or repair an area more extensive than that covered by graffiti,
or use a matching paint. The City, at its discretion, may provide more
extensive painting, removal, or repair if approved by the City Manager.
   (F)   Graffiti that is offensive to community standards, specifically
defined to be an objective reasonable person standard, that consists of
verbiage or symbols that demean or denigrate racial groups, ethnic groups,
cultural groups, or depicts obscene images shall be removed/abated within 24
hours of notice to the responsible party. City personnel may assist with
materials and supplies to remove or repair the defacement as part of a graffiti
abatement program funded by the City.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-4) (Ord. 07-05, passed 2-12-2007) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 ABATEMENT PROCEDURES; NOTICE; APPLICATION FOR HARDSHIP; ADMINISTRATIVE
REVIEW.
   (A)   Permission for entry shall be as follows.
      (1)   If the responsible party signs a permission form, the City, or its
authorized private contractor, may enter the property to abate graffiti.
      (2)   If the responsible party refuses to sign a permission form or
cannot be located and the City, at its sole discretion, deems it appropriate to
abate graffiti on the property, the City will issue a notice of graffiti
abatement. The notice may be served in person, by certified mail, by posting on
the subject property; or publishing in a City newspaper of general circulation.
   (B)   The notice of graffiti abatement will contain the following
information:
      (1)   Identification of the property and description of the nature of the
graffiti;
      (2)   A statement declaring that the property is a public nuisance;
      (3)   A statement declaring that abatement may commence within three
business days from the date of the notice;
      (4)   A statement declaring that the cost for the removal will be billed
to the responsible party; and
      (5)   A statement declaring that neither the City nor its private
contractor shall be liable for any abatement of graffiti that does not match or
resemble the original surface.
   (C)   Designation of enforcement authority and Hearing Officers shall be as
follows.
      (1)   Building Officials, Code Enforcement Officers, and the Building
Inspectors are authorized to issue notices of graffiti abatement for violations
of this code within City jurisdiction. In addition, all officers and
investigators of the Police Department will assist in the enforcement of this
code and may issue citations for that purpose.
      (2)   The Growth Management Director will act as the Hearing Officer in
the event of administrative review.
   (D)   Application for hardship shall be as follows.
      (1)   In the event that a responsible party would be financially burdened
by a graffiti removal order, the responsible party may apply for a
determination of hardship. The application shall include a statement as to why
the hardship exists and proof of the financial hardship.
      (2)   The review of the application and final decision will be determined
by the City Manager.
   (E)   Administrative review shall be as follows.
      (1)   A responsible party may object to the notice of graffiti abatement
by filing a written request for review with the Hearing Officer no later than
three business days after receiving the notice of graffiti abatement.
      (2)   Upon timely receipt of the request for review, the Hearing Officer
will notify the enforcement authority to defer enforcement action until the
review is final. The responsible party must promptly supply the Hearing Officer
with any additional information necessary to determine whether or not the
property constitutes a nuisance. When the review is final, the Hearing Officer
will notify the responsible party and the enforcement authority of his or her
findings within five business days. The responsible party will be notified by
certified mail.
      (3)   If the Hearing Officer determines that the property contains
graffiti and is a public nuisance, the Hearing Officer will issue a written
eradication order stating that the City, or its authorized private contractor,
may enter upon the property within 24 hours and abate the graffiti.
      (4)   If the responsible party disagrees with the Hearing Officer’s
determination, he or she may request an appeal to the City Manager. Such
request shall be submitted in writing within five days of the Hearing Officer’s
determination. The determination of the City Manager shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-5) (Ord. 07-05, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 131.06 REWARDS AND REIMBURSEMENTS FOR INFORMATION.
   (A)   The City may offer a reward of $200 for information leading to the
identification and prosecution of any person who violates §
131.02. The violator must reimburse the City for any reward paid. If multiple
persons contribute information, the reward will be divided in a manner the City
deems appropriate.
   (B)   Claims for rewards must be submitted to the Growth Management Director
who will evaluate the claim and make recommendations to the City Manager for
approval or denial.
   (C)   No reward claim is allowed unless the City has investigated and
verified the accuracy of the claim and determines the requirements of this
section have been met.
   (D)   The City Manager will approve or deny the reward claim and his or her
decision is final.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-6) (Ord. 07-05, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 131.07 ANTI-GRAFFITI TRUST FUND.
   The City Council hereby creates the City’s Anti-Graffiti Trust Fund. The
proportion of the penalties assessed against violators of this chapter that
accrue to the City will be placed in the Fund, along with any monetary
donations received from persons wishing to contribute to the Fund. The Council
will direct the expenditures of monies in the Fund. Expenditures are limited to
payment for the cost of graffiti removal, rewards for information leading to
the successful arrest and indictment of violators of this chapter, the costs of
administering this chapter, and such other public purposes that are involved
with graffiti abatement.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-7) (Ord. 07-05, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 131.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   No person shall, by threat or use of violence or physical force, or by
threatening to do or doing any other act that can reasonably be anticipated to
cause physical harm to any person, intentionally obstruct, impede, or interfere
with any officer, employee, contractor, or authorized representative of the
City who is lawfully and constitutionally engaged in the enforcement or
execution of the provision of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-8) (Ord. 07-05, passed 2-12-2007) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A person convicted of a violation of §
131.02(A) or (B) is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor punishable by a term of not
less than one day in jail, a total fine of $575, including all court surcharges
and fees, and not less than 40 hours’ community service involving participation
in the removal of graffiti within the City. In addition to any other
punishment, the court shall order restitution to the victim for damage or loss
caused directly or indirectly by the defendant’s offense, or to any person or
entity including a political subdivision that has incurred expense to repair or
abate such damage, in an amount to be determined by the court. A violation of §
131.02(C) is a Class 1 misdemeanor and will be punished as provided for in
A.R.S. Title 8. In exchange for an increased community service requirement, a
judge may suspend any part or all of the imposition of any fine or jail term
required by this section.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-2)
   (C)   A person who violates any part of §
131.03 is subject to a civil sanction of not less than $250.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-3)
   (D)   Violation of §
131.08 is a Class 1 misdemeanor punishable by a term of not less than one day
in jail, and/or a $575 fine. A judge may suspend the imposition of any portion
or all of the fines and jail terms required by this section.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-8) (Ord. 07-05, passed 2-12-2007)
CHAPTER 132: PUBLIC PEACE, MORALS, AND WELFARE
Section
General Provisions
   
132.01   Social host
   
132.02   Unruly gatherings
Riot Control
   
132.15   Declaration of emergency and powers of Mayor
   
132.16   Effective date of proclamation
   
132.17   Expiration and extension of proclamation
 
   
132.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 132.01 SOCIAL HOST.
   No person 18 years or older who owns or occupies any premises shall
knowingly permit or fail to take reasonable action to prevent illegal
consumption of spirituous liquor by an underage person or the illegal use of
drugs by any person on premises owned by the person or under the person’s
control.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-1) (Ord. 09-15, passed 7-13-2009; Ord. 13-12, passed 10-14-
2013) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02 UNRULY GATHERINGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      OWNER. Any owner, as well as any agent of an owner acting on behalf of
the owner to control or otherwise regulate the occupancy or use of the
property.
      PREMISES. The property that is the site of an unruly gathering. For
residential properties, PREMISES means the dwelling unit or units where the
unruly gathering occurs.
      UNRULY GATHERING. A gathering of five or more persons on any private
property, including property used to conduct business, in a manner which causes
a disturbance of the quiet enjoyment of private or public property by any
person or persons. Such disturbances include, but are not limited to, excessive
noise or traffic, obstruction of public streets by crowds or vehicles, drinking
in public, the service of alcohol to minors or consumption of alcohol by
minors, fighting, disturbing the peace, and littering.
   (B)   Abatement of unruly gathering. A peace officer may abate an unruly
gathering by reasonable means including, but not limited to, citation or arrest
of violators under applicable ordinances or state statutes, and dispersal of
the persons attending the gathering.
   (C)   Notice of unruly gathering; posting; removal of notice prohibited;
right to contest posting.
      (1)   Contents of notice. The premises at which the unruly gathering
occurs shall be posted with a notice stating:
         (a)   An unruly gathering has occurred at the premises;
         (b)   The date of the unruly gathering;
         (c)   Any subsequent unruly gathering on the same premises within a
180-day period shall result in liability for the penalties provided in this
section. Parties liable include any persons in attendance causing the gathering
to be unruly, or any owner, occupant, or tenant of the premises at which the
unruly gathering occurred, or any sponsor of the event constituting the unruly
gathering; and
         (d)   The right to contest the posting as provided in section (C)(4)
below.
      (2)   Posting requirements.
         (a)   Premises shall be posted with a notice as provided in this
section each time an unruly gathering occurs. The owner, occupant, or tenant of
the premises or sponsor of the event constituting the unruly gathering, if
present, shall be consulted as to the location in which such notice is posted
in order to achieve both the security of the notice and its prominent display.
         (b)   In the event that a premises is already posted at the time of a
subsequent posting, the 180-day period from the date of the existing posting
shall be extended to 180 days from the date of the subsequent posting. Once a
premises is initially posted as a result of an unruly gathering and the conduct
causing the gathering to be unruly has ceased, a resumption of unruly behavior
on the premises resulting in another police response shall constitute a new and
separate unruly gathering for purposes of this section.
      (3)   Removal of notice prohibited. The owner, occupant, or tenant of the
posted premises shall be responsible for ensuring that the notice is not
removed, defaced, or concealed. The removal, defacement, or concealment of a
posted notice is a civil infraction carrying a penalty of a minimum, mandatory
$100 fine, in addition to any other penalties which may be imposed under this
section.
      (4)   Right to contest posting.
         (a)   An owner, occupant, or tenant of the posted premises may contest
the posting of the notice by filing a written petition for review with the
civil infractions division of the City court requesting that the court
determine whether justification existed for posting of the notice under
provisions of this section. The petition must be filed within ten days after
the posting of the notice or, if the notice is given by mail, within 15 days
after the date of the mailing of the notice, and not thereafter. The court
shall set a time and date for a hearing to be held no later than 15 days after
receipt of the written petition and shall notify both the petitioner and the
criminal division of the City Attorney’s office of the hearing date. In order
to avoid the possibility of conflicting rulings, if more than one petition is
filed under this section (C) relating to a single posting, for example by
multiple lawful occupants of the posted premises, the court shall set only one
hearing and shall consolidate the petitions and notify all petitioners of the
hearing date and time. At the hearing, the City has the burden of proving by a
preponderance of evidence that the posting of the notice was justified pursuant
to the provisions of this section.
         (b)   An owner of a posted premises, at any time after the posting or
the mailing of the notice, may petition the court for an order directing the
removal of the notice on the grounds that the owner has taken reasonable and
necessary actions, such as evicting a tenant responsible for the violation, to
prevent the occurrence of a subsequent unruly gathering at the posted location.
The court shall set a time and date for a hearing to be held no later than 15
days after receipt of the petition and shall notify both the petitioner and the
criminal division of the City Attorney’s office of the hearing date. At the
hearing, the petitioner has the burden of proving by a preponderance of
evidence that the petitioner has taken reasonable and necessary actions to
prevent the occurrence of a subsequent unruly gathering. This petition process
is not available to an owner who was present at the unruly gathering and
engaged in conduct causing the gathering to be unruly.
   (D)   Notification of property owner.
      (1)   Notification of the posting of the notice of unruly gathering shall
be mailed to any property owner at the address shown on the county property tax
assessment records. The notification shall advise the property owner that any
subsequent unruly gathering within 180 days on the same premises shall result
in liability of the property owner for all applicable penalties as provided in
this chapter. Notifications shall be made by certified mail. The return receipt
shall be prima facie evidence of service.
      (2)   Additionally, notice shall be provided to an agent of the owner who
controls or regulates the use of the premises, if known. Notice to the owner’s
agent may be provided by hand delivery or by certified or regular mail sent to
the agent’s last known address.
      (3)   The failure to serve notice to any person described in this section
(D) shall not invalidate any citation or other proceedings as to any other
person duly served, or relieve any such person from any duty imposed by this
section.
   (E)   Unruly gathering a civil infraction; parties responsible. An unruly
gathering is unlawful and constitutes a civil infraction. The following
parties, if found responsible for such an infraction, are liable for the
penalties provided in §
132.99(C)(1):
      (1)   The person or persons who organized or sponsored the event
constituting the unruly gathering, including any owner or occupant in
attendance at the unruly gathering; and
      (2)   Any person in attendance at the unruly gathering who engaged in any
conduct causing the gathering to be unruly.
   (F)   Subsequent unruly gathering a civil infraction; parties responsible.
The occurrence of an unruly gathering on the same premises more than once in
any 180-day period is a civil infraction. The following parties, if found
responsible for such an infraction, are liable for the penalties provided in §
132.99(C)(2):
      (1)   The owner of the property where the subsequent unruly gathering
occurred, if either:
         (a)   The owner was present when the property was posted; or
         (b)   Notification of posting was mailed or delivered to the owner of
the property per section (D) above, and the subsequent unruly gathering
occurred not less than two weeks after the mailing of such notification.
      (2)   The occupant or tenant of the property where the subsequent unruly
gathering occurred;
      (3)   The person or persons who organized or sponsored the event
constituting the subsequent unruly gathering; and
      (4)   Any person in attendance at the subsequent unruly gathering who
engaged in any conduct causing the gathering to be unruly.
   (G)   Liability. Nothing in this section shall be construed to impose
liability on the owner, occupant, or tenant of the premises or sponsor of the
event constituting the unruly gathering, for the conduct of persons who are in
attendance without the express or implied consent of the owner, occupant,
tenant, or sponsor, as long as the owner, occupant, tenant, or sponsor has
taken steps reasonably necessary to prevent a subsequent unruly gathering or to
exclude the uninvited persons from the premises, including owners who are
actively attempting to evict a tenant from the premises. Where an invited
person engages in unlawful conduct which the owner, occupant, tenant, or
sponsor could not reasonably foresee and could not reasonably control without
the intervention of the police, the unlawful conduct of the person shall not be
attributable to the owner, occupant, tenant, or sponsor for the purposes of
determining liability under this section.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-2) (Ord. 09-15, passed 7-13-2009) Penalty, see §
132.99
RIOT CONTROL
§ 132.15 DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY AND POWERS OF MAYOR.
   (A)   Whenever the Mayor of the City, or in the event of his or her absence
or inability to act, the Vice Mayor, shall deem that an emergency exists due to
fire, flood, earthquake, explosion, war, bombing, acts of the enemy, or other
natural or human-made calamity to disaster or by reason of threats or
occurrences of acts of riots, routs, affrays, or other acts of civil
disobedience which endanger life or property within the City, he or she shall
by proclamation declare a state of emergency to exist. The Mayor shall then
take personal charge of and have complete command of all governmental
activities for the City, including the Police and Fire Departments.
   (B)   The Mayor shall govern during the existence of any such emergency and
shall have the authority to impose all necessary regulations in order to combat
the emergency and to preserve peace and order in the City, including, but not
limited to the following:
      (1)   To impose a curfew in such areas of the City as shall be designated
by him or her, which curfew shall be in effect during the hours of each day
designated by him or her, which curfew shall be in effect during the hours of
each day designated in the proclamation and shall require all persons to remove
themselves from the public streets, alleys, parks, or other public places
within the designated area, and requiring all persons living or residing within
any such designated area to go immediately to their homes and remain there
during the hours the curfew is in effect; provided, however, that physicians,
nurses, and ambulance operators performing medical services; utility personnel
maintaining essential public services; and firefighters and City authorized or
requested law enforcement officers and personnel shall be exempted from such
curfew;
      (2)   To order that any business establishment anywhere within the City
may be closed during such hours or times as designated, such businesses to
include, but not be limited to, those selling intoxicating liquors, cereal malt
beverages, gasoline, or firearms;
      (3)   To provide that any public street or thoroughfare or vehicle
parking area to be closed to motor vehicles and pedestrian traffic;
      (4)   To call upon all regular and auxiliary law enforcement agencies and
organizations within or without the City to assist in preserving and keeping
the peace and order within the City; and
      (5)   To marshal all personnel, equipment, food, supplies, drugs, and
medical facilities and in the event it is necessary, to apportion or section
the same.
(Prior Code, § 17-1-1)
§ 132.16 EFFECTIVE DATE OF PROCLAMATION.
   The proclamation of emergency provided for herein shall become effective
upon its issuance by the Mayor and shall be disseminated to the residents of
the City by appropriate news media and by Police and Fire Department personnel
and authorized City employees.
(Prior Code, § 17-1-2)
§ 132.17 EXPIRATION AND EXTENSION OF PROCLAMATION.
   An emergency proclaimed in accordance with this chapter shall terminate
after 72 hours or upon the issuance of a proclamation determining that the
emergency no longer exists, whichever occurred first; provided, however, that
in the event conditions continue to exist which endangers life or property,
then such state of emergency may be extended for such additional periods of
time not exceeding 72 hours, as may be determined by resolution of the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 17-1-3)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A person who violates §
132.01 is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-1)
   (C)   (1)   Unruly gathering. The penalty for a party found responsible for
an unruly gathering, as provided in §
132.02(E), shall be a minimum mandatory fine of $100.
      (2)   Subsequent unruly gathering. The penalty for a party found
responsible for the occurrence of a subsequent unruly gathering, as provided in
§
132.02(F), shall be a minimum mandatory fine of $500 for a first violation, a
minimum mandatory fine of $1,000 for a second violation, and minimum mandatory
fines of $1,500 for each third or subsequent violation.
      (3)   Abatement. The civil fines provided herein shall be in addition to
any other penalties imposed by law for particular violations of law committed
during the course of an unruly gathering. The court shall also enter an order
of abatement against a party found responsible for a violation of this section
pursuant to Title V of this code.
      (4)   Enforcement. The Police Department is authorized to enforce the
provisions of this section (C), provided that enforcement is initiated by a
complaint from a member of the public. The complaining member of the public
shall not necessarily be required to appear in court before a violator may be
found responsible.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-2) (Ord. 09-15, passed 7-13-2009)
CHAPTER 133: CURFEW
Section
   
133.01   Definitions
   
133.02   Offenses
   
133.03   Defenses and exceptions
   
133.04   Enforcement
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action.
   GUARDIAN. A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of
a minor or a public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by an
authorized agency or court; or at least 21 years of age and authorized by a
parent or guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
   INSUFFICIENT CONTROL. Failure to exercise reasonable care and diligence in
the supervision of the juvenile.
   MINOR. Any person under 18 years of age.
   PARENT. A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, or step-parent of
another person.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-10) (Ord. 98-04, passed 4-13-1998; Ord. 13-02, passed 1-28-
2013)
§ 133.02 OFFENSES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any minor under the age of 16 years to be in,
about, or upon any place in the town away from the property where the minor
resides between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of the following day.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any minor 16 years of age or older, and under the
age of 18 years, to be in, about, or upon any place in the town away from the
property where the minor resides between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.
   (C)   It is unlawful for a parent or guardian of a minor to knowingly
permit, or by insufficient control, allow a minor to violate sections (A) or
(B) above.
   (D)   It is unlawful for a parent, guardian, or other person having the
care, custody, or supervision of the minor to fail or refuse to take custody of
the minor after such demand is made upon him or her by a law enforcement
officer who arrests the minor for violation of sections (A) or (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-10) (Ord. 98-04, passed 4-13-1998; Ord. 13-02, passed 1-28-
2013) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.03 DEFENSES AND EXCEPTIONS.
   It is a defense to prosecution under §
133.02(C) that the minor was:
   (A)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
   (B)   With prior permission of the parent or guardian, in a motor vehicle
involved in interstate travel;
   (C)   With prior permission of the parent or guardian, in an employment
activity or going to or returning home from an employment activity without any
detour or stop by the most direct route;
   (D)   Involved in an emergency;
   (E)   With prior permission of the parent or guardian, was engaged in
reasonable, legitimate, and specific business and/or activity. Examples
include, but are not limited to, a minor, with prior permission of the parent
or guardian, attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults who take responsibility for the minor, or going
to or returning home from an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults who take responsibility for the minor;
   (F)   With prior permission of the parent or guardian, engaged in a
reasonable and legitimate exercise of First Amendment rights protected by the
United States Constitution;
   (G)   Married and 16 years of age or over, or in the military; or
   (H)   On the sidewalk abutting their residence or on the next door
neighbor’s property with the consent of the neighbor.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-10) (Ord. 98-04, passed 4-13-1998; Ord. 13-02, passed 1-28-
2013)
§ 133.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a law
enforcement officer shall attempt to ascertain the apparent offender’s age and
reason for being in the place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make
an arrest under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an
offense has occurred and that, based upon the circumstances, the minor’s
responses, and minor’s conduct, no defense as provided in §
133.03 is probably present.
   (B)   In addition to any other powers he or she may have, any law
enforcement officer who arrests a minor for violating any of the provisions of
§
133.02(A) or (B) is also hereby empowered to demand of the parent, guardian, or
other person having the care, custody, or supervision of the minor that such
parent, guardian, or other person come and take the minor into custody. The law
enforcement officer is also empowered to take the minor to a designated
location where arrangements can be made for a parent, guardian, or other
appropriate party to take the minor into custody. Should there be a failure of
the parent, guardian, or other person to take custody of such minor, the
officer may then be empowered to take the minor home.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-10) (Ord. 98-04, passed 4-13-1998; Ord. 13-02, passed 1-28-
2013)
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   Each violation of §
133.02 shall constitute a separate offense. A person convicted of a violation
of any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor. This
offense is designated an incorrigible offense for minors under the jurisdiction
of the juvenile court.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-10) (Ord. 98-04, passed 4-13-1998; Ord. 13-02, passed 1-28-
2013)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING AND EXCAVATION
      
151.   OUTDOOR LIGHTING
      
152.   FLOOD CONTROL
      
153.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING AND EXCAVATION
Section
Building Code
   
150.001   Must conform to zoning ordinance
   
150.002   State law applies to public entities
   
150.003   State standards and specifications
   
150.004   Validity and constitutionality of state law
   
150.005   Building Official
   
150.006   Board of Appeals
City Building Code
   
150.020   Title and purpose
   
150.021   Application adoption of specific codes
   
150.022   Adoption of specific codes
   
150.023   Copies to be held as public records
   
150.024   Rules and definitions
   
150.025   Building Code administration
   
150.026   Zoning certification
   
150.027   Application for permit
   
150.028   Variances from codes
   
150.029   Appeals to Board of Appeals
   
150.030   Violations
   
150.031   Liability
   
150.032   Conflicting provisions
Adoption of Additional Codes
   
150.045   Adoption of Abatement of Dangerous Building Code
   
150.046   Adoption of Administrative Code
   
150.047   Uniform Housing Code
Excavations, Alterations, and Construction in Public Rights-of-Way; Use of
Public Rights-of-Way
   
150.060   Applications to Director of Public Works; permits
   
150.061   Applications to Council; permits
   
150.062   Restoration
   
150.063   Right to prohibit or condition issuance of permits
   
150.064   Violations
   
150.065   No pavement cuts in new streets
   
150.066   Preservation and dedication of public rights-of-way
Development Fees
   
150.080   Definitions
   
150.081   Purpose and intent
   
150.082   Applicability
   
150.083   Authority for development impact fees
   
150.084   Administration of development impact fees
   
150.085   Land use assumptions
   
150.086   Infrastructure improvements plan
   
150.087   Adoption and modification procedures
   
150.088   Timing for renewal and updating of the infrastructure improvements
plan and land use assumptions
   
150.089   Collection of development fees
   
150.090   Development impact fee credits and credit agreements
   
150.091   Development agreements
   
150.092   Appeals
   
150.093   Refunds of development impact fees
   
150.094   Oversight of development impact fee program
   
150.095   Development fee schedules
 
   
150.999   Penalty
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.001 MUST CONFORM TO ZONING ORDINANCE.
   Whenever a building permit is issued and a building inspection performed,
such building must conform to the provisions of the City’s Zoning Code in
addition to the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-2)
§ 150.002 STATE LAW APPLIES TO PUBLIC ENTITIES.
   Standards and specifications set forth in A.R.S. Title 41, Chapter 9,
Article 8 (Arizonans with Disabilities Act), and its implementing rules,
including Americans with Disabilities Act Accessibility Guidelines for
Buildings and Facilities declared a public record by Resolution #97-01, as
applying to public entities, are hereby adopted and incorporated as an
amendment to the International Building Code adopted in §§
150.001 through
150.004 and made part thereof as though fully set forth therein. Such standards
and specifications shall apply to new construction and alterations and are not
required in buildings or portions of existing buildings that do not meet the
standards and specifications.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-4)
§ 150.003 STATE STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   Standards and specifications set forth in A.R.S. Title 41, Chapter 9,
Article 8, (Arizonans with Disabilities Act), and its implementing rules,
including Americans with Disabilities Act Accessibility Guidelines for
Buildings and Facilities declared a public record by Resolution #97-01, are
hereby adopted and incorporated as an amendment to the International Building
Code adopted in §§
150.001 through
150.004 and made part thereof as though fully set forth therein. Such standards
and specifications shall apply to new construction and alterations commended
after September 3, 1996.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-5)
§ 150.004 VALIDITY AND CONSTITUTIONALITY OF STATE LAW.
   If any section, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this subchapter or
any part of these amendments to the International Building Code adopted herein
by reference is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the
decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decisions shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions thereof.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-6)
§ 150.005 BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   The Building Official, an administrative authority, as such may be
referenced in any section of this chapter for all matters pertaining to any
building, plumbing, electrical, or any other inspections shall be vested in the
office of the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 8-9)
§ 150.006 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   In order to provide for the final interpretation of the provisions of the
uniform codes and to hear appeals as provided for in said uniform codes, there
is hereby established a Board of Appeals consisting of the Mayor and Council
and any provision in said codes to the contrary shall have no force and effect
and is hereby superseded by this section.
(Prior Code, § 8-10)
CITY BUILDING CODE
§ 150.020 TITLE AND PURPOSE.
   This subchapter may be cited and referred to as the City’s Building Code.
The purpose of this subchapter is to enact rules and procedures to regulate the
quality, type of material, and workmanship of all aspects of construction and
maintenance of buildings or structures within the incorporated area of the
City.
(Prior Code, § 8-14-1) (Ord. 03-13, passed 11-10-2003)
§ 150.021 APPLICATION ADOPTION OF SPECIFIC CODES.
   This subchapter shall apply to the construction, repair, additions to,
installation, and maintenance of all buildings, structures, and property
appurtenant thereto within the incorporated areas of the City, except as
otherwise provided by statute, regulation, or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 8-14-2) (Ord. 03-13, passed 11-10-2003)
§ 150.022 ADOPTION OF SPECIFIC CODES.
    Pursuant to A.R.S. § 9-802, the code documents described hereinafter, as
published, and as specifically amended by the City Council, are hereby adopted
by reference as if fully set out herein, as the City’s Building Code:
   (A)   International Building Code, 2018 Edition, as published by the
International Code Council, otherwise described as Code No. 1 or IBC, including
the following listed Appendix Chapters:
      (1)   Appendix C - Group U - Agricultural Buildings Appendix F - Rodent
proofing,
      (2)   Appendix G - Flood-Resistant Construction Appendix I - Patio
Covers,
      (3)   Appendix J - Grading,
along with amendments thereto included in Exhibit A to Ord. 23-13, which is
hereby adopted by reference as if fully set forth herein, a copy of which will
be kept with each version of the IBC held as a public record.
   (B)   International Residential Code, 2018 Edition, as published by the
International Code Council, hereinafter described as Code No. 2 or IRC,
including the following listed Appendix Chapters:
      (1)   Appendix A - Sizing and capacities of Gas Piping,
      (2)   Appendix B - Sizing of Venting Systems serving Appliances equipped
with draft hoods, category I appliances, and appliances listed for use with
type B vents,
      (3)   Appendix C - Exit Terminals of Mechanical Draft and Direct - Vent
Venting Systems,
      (4)   Appendix H - Patio Covers,
      (5)   Appendix J- Existing Buildings and Structures,
      (6)   Appendix Q - Tiny Houses,
along with amendments thereto included in Exhibit B to Ord. 23-13, which is
hereby adopted by reference as if fully set forth herein, a copy of which will
be kept with each version of the IRC held as a public record.
   (C)   International Fuel Gas Code, 2018 Edition, as published by the by the
International Code Council, hereinafter described as Code No. 3, or IFGC, which
is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set forth herein, a copy of which
will be kept with each version of the IFGC held as a public record.
   (D)   International Mechanical Code, 2018 Edition, as published by the
International Code Council, hereinafter described as Code No. 4, or IMC, along
with amendments thereto included in Exhibit C to Ord. 23-13, which is hereby
adopted by reference as if fully set forth herein, a copy of which will be kept
with each version of the IMC held as a public record.
   (E)   International Plumbing Code, 2018 Edition, as published by the
International Code Council, hereinafter described as Code No. 5, or IPC, which
is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set forth herein, a copy of which
will be kept with each version of the IPC held as a public record.
   (F)   International Fire Code, 2018 Edition, as published by the
International Code Council, hereinafter described as Code No. 6, or IFC, which
is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set forth herein, a copy of which
will be kept with each version of the of the IFC held as a public record.
      (1)   Appendix A - Board of Appeals,
      (2)   Appendix B - Fire-Flow Requirements for Buildings,
      (3)   Appendix C - Fire Hydrant Locations and Distribution,
      (4)   Appendix D - Fire apparatus access roads,
      (5)   Appendix E - Hazard Categories,
      (6)   Appendix F - Hazard Ranking,
      (7)   Appendix G - Cryogenic Fluids - Weight and Volume Equivalents,
      (8)   Appendix H - Hazardous Material Management,
      (9)   Appendix I - Fire Protection Systems - Non-compliant Conditions,
      (10)   Appendix K - Construction Requirements For Existing Ambulatory
Care Facilities,
      (11)   Appendix L - Requirements for Fire Fighter Air Replenishing
Systems,
      (12)   Appendix N - Indoor Trade Shows And Exhibitions,
      (13)   Appendix O - Special Event Guidelines,
along with amendments thereto included in Exhibit F to Ord. 23-13, which is
hereby adopted by reference as if fully set forth herein, a copy of which will
be kept with each version of the IFC held as a public record.
   (G)   International Property Maintenance Code, 2018 Edition, as published by
the International Conference of Building Officials, hereinafter described as
Code No. 7 or IPMC, along with amendments thereto included in Exhibit D to Ord.
23-13, which is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set forth herein, a
copy of which will be kept with each version of the IPMC held as a public
record.
   (H)   International Existing Building Code, 2018 Edition, as published by
the International Conference of Building Officials, hereinafter described as
Code No. 8 or IEBC, along with amendments thereto included in Exhibit E to Ord.
23-13, which is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set forth herein, a
copy of which will be kept with each version of the IEBC held as a public
record.
   (I)   International Energy Conservation Code, 2018 Edition, as published by
the International Code Council, hereinafter described as Code No. 9 or IECC,
which is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set forth herein, a copy of
which will be kept with each version of the IECC held as a public record.
   (J)   International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, 2018 Edition, as published
by the International Code Council, hereinafter described as Code No. 11 or
ISPSC, which is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set forth herein, a
copy of which will be kept with each version of the ICCPC held as a public
record.
   (K)   National Electrical Code 2017, published by the National Fire
Protection Association (NFPA 70), hereinafter described as Code No. 12, or NEC,
along with amendments thereto included in Exhibit G to Ord. 23-13, which is
hereby adopted by reference as if fully set forth herein, a copy of which will
be kept with each version of the NEC held as a public record.
   (L)   Uniform Administrative Abatement of Dangerous Building Codes, 1997
published by the International Conference of Building Officials (ICBO),
hereinafter described as Code No. 13, or UABDBC, which is hereby adopted by
reference as if fully set forth herein, a copy of which will be kept with each
version of the UABDBC held as a public record.
   (M)   Accessible and Usable Building and Facilities-IC/ANSI A 117.1-2009.
(Ord. 23-13, passed 12-11-2023)
§ 150.023 COPIES TO BE HELD AS PUBLIC RECORDS.
   Copies of all codes described in §
150.022 are to be available for public reference and inspection as follows.
   (A)   One copy of codes described in §
150.022 shall be kept on file in the office of the City Clerk;
   (B)   One copy of codes described in §
150.022 shall be kept on file in the Building Department; and
   (C)   One copy of codes described in §
150.022 shall be kept on file in the City Library.
(Prior Code, § 8-14-4) (Ord. 03-13, passed 11-10-2003; Ord. 09-05, passed 1--
2009)
§ 150.024 RULES AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   References. References to chapters, articles, sections, subsection,
paragraphs, subparagraphs, and tables, unless otherwise specified, refer to the
Building Code documents listed in §
150.022.
   (B)   Definitions. The following rules and definitions shall be used when
interpreting provisions of this subchapter and the codes adopted by reference
therein. If the definitions provided herein conflict in any way with the
definitions contained in the codes set forth in §
150.022, the definitions set forth in this section shall prevail.
      ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY. The City Building Official, Code Official,
Community Services Director, or City Council.
      BOARD OF APPEALS. When used in the Building Codes or this subchapter, the
term shall refer to a board comprised of the City Council and Mayor which shall
be the sole entity to hear appeals from the decisions of the Building Official,
determine the suitability of alternative materials and construction, and to
permit interpretations of the provisions of the codes, but not administrative
portions of the Building Code. References to any other boards in the codes
shall have no force and effect and are hereby superseded by this subchapter.
      BUILDING CODES. The codes listed and described in §
150.022.
      BUILDING OFFICIAL, CODE OFFICIAL, MECHANICAL INSPECTOR, and CHIEF
ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR. The Building Official (as established by § 150.025), or
other person charged with administration and enforcement of this code.
      COMMERCIAL. Refers to the use of a building, addition, or structure for
business, educational, religious, institutional, recreational, industrial, or
any other non-residential purpose.
      JURISDICTION. The incorporated areas of the City of Coolidge.
      NON-COMMERCIAL. The use of a building, structure, or addition for a
residential purpose.
(Prior Code, § 8-14-5) (Ord. 03-13, passed 11-10-2003)
§ 150.025 BUILDING CODE ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The position of the Building Official is an administrative position
and shall be an exempt position. Said administrator shall be responsible for
the administration and enforcement of this code.
   (B)   The Building Official shall keep careful and comprehensive records of
applications for permits, of permits issued, of inspections made, of revenue
received, of reports rendered, and of notices or orders issued. The Building
Official shall further retain on file, copies of all documents in connection
with building work for the minimum time period required by this code, or for
such additional time as he or she deems necessary.
(Prior Code, § 8-14-6) (Ord. 03-13, passed 11-10-2003; Ord. 09-05, passed 1-26-
2009)
§ 150.026 ZONING CERTIFICATION.
   No building permit shall be issued to any person unless a copy of a
certification of appropriate zoning has been issued by the City Planner to the
Building Official. Exceptions to this requirement are permits for mechanical,
electrical, or plumbing work, and remodeling that do not involve a change of
use or additional area which may affect required setbacks.
(Prior Code, § 8-14-7) (Ord. 03-13, passed 11-10-2003)
§ 150.027 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   The Building Official may require with an application for a building permit
whatever data and information is deemed necessary to reasonably determine that
the proposed work is in compliance with the requirements of this code and other
pertinent laws and ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 8-14-8) (Ord. 03-13, passed 11-10-2003)
§ 150.028 VARIANCES FROM CODES.
   (A)   The Building Official may grant a variance to the Building Codes as
permitted therein or, if the Building Codes do not specifically provide for a
variance procedure, the Building Official may nonetheless grant a variance from
the use of materials or methods set forth in the Building Code when unnecessary
hardship or a result inconsistent with the general intent of the Building Code
to provide for the safety of occupants will occur as a result of its strict or
literal interpretation.
   (B)   The Building Official shall grant a variance from the State Plumbing
Code only upon the following findings:
      (1)   There is a special circumstance affecting the plumbing installation
that does not apply to most of the similar installations;
      (2)   The special circumstances was not created or caused by the
applicant; and
      (3)   Granting the variance shall not be materially detrimental to others
living or working in the vicinity, to adjacent property to the neighborhood, or
to the general welfare.
(Prior Code, § 8-14-9) (Ord. 03-13, passed 11-10-2003)
§ 150.029 APPEALS TO BOARD OF APPEALS.
   A person shall have the right to appeal a decision of the Building Official
to the Board of Appeals as set forth in the codes or, if the codes do not
specifically provide for the right of appeal, in any case where the person
claims that the provisions of the codes have been incorrectly interpreted, do
not fully apply, an equally good or better form of construction is proposed, or
that an undue hardship would occur if the codes were strictly applied and the
variance requested would not adversely impact the safety of the occupants,
neighbors, property, or City in general.
(Prior Code, § 8-14-10) (Ord. 03-13, passed 11-10-2003)
§ 150.030 VIOLATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, entity, or enterprise to
erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert,
demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain any building, structure, or property
in the jurisdiction, or cause the same to be done, contrary to or in violation
of any of the provisions of this subchapter or the codes adopted herein.
(Prior Code, § 8-14-11) (Ord. 03-13, passed 11-10-2003) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.031 LIABILITY.
   Neither the Board of Appeals, the Building Official, or other officer or
employee charged with the enforcement of the code, while acting in good faith,
without malice and for the jurisdiction, shall be rendered liable personally,
and are hereby relieved from all personal liability for any damage accruing to
persons or property as a result of an act or failure to perform an act required
or permitted in the discharge of official duties.
(Prior Code, § 8-14-13) (Ord. 03-13, passed 11-10-2003)
§ 150.032 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Where, in any specific case, different sections of the Building Code
or City code specify the use of different materials, different construction, or
other requirements, the most restrictive shall govern. Where there is a
conflict between a general and specific requirement, the specific requirement
shall be applicable.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if there is a conflict between a
portion of the Building Code and the State Plumbing Code, the provisions of the
State Plumbing Code shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 8-14-14) (Ord. 03-13, passed 11-10-2003)
ADOPTION OF ADDITIONAL CODES
§ 150.045 ADOPTION OF ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDING CODE.
   That certain code entitled “Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous
Buildings”, 1997 Edition, as adopted by the International Conference of
Building Officials, except all provisions relating to administrative procedures
other than mentioned under the headings title and purpose and scope, is hereby
adopted as the Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings of the
City and made a part of this chapter the same as though said code was
specifically set forth in full herein; and at least three copies of said code
shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk and kept available for public
use and inspection.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-1) (Ord. 02-04, passed 6-10-2002)
§ 150.046 ADOPTION OF ADMINISTRATIVE CODE.
   (A)   That certain code entitled “Uniform Administrative Code”, 1997
Edition, as adopted by the International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical
Officials, is hereby adopted as the Uniform Administrative Code of the City and
made a part of this chapter the same as though said code was specifically set
forth in full herein and at least three copies of said code shall be filed in
the office of the City Clerk and kept available for public use and inspection.
   (B)   The fee for each permit issued for residential construction shall be
as set forth separately by Council resolution.
(Prior Code, § 8-6) (Ord. 02-04, passed 6-10-2002; Ord. 02-16, passed 11-12-
2002)
§ 150.047 UNIFORM HOUSING CODE.
   (A)   That certain code entitled “Uniform Housing Code”, 2001 Edition,
copyrighted by the International Conference of Building Officials, except all
provisions relating to administrative procedures other than mentioned under the
headings title and purpose and scope is hereby adopted as the Uniform Housing
Code of the City and made a part of this chapter the same as though said code
was specifically set forth in full herein.
   (B)   At least three copies of said code shall be filed in the office of the
City Clerk and kept available for public use and inspection.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-1) (Ord. 02-04, passed 6-10-2002)
EXCAVATIONS, ALTERATIONS, AND CONSTRUCTION IN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY;
USE OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
§ 150.060 APPLICATIONS TO DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS; PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit or license required. It is unlawful for any person, except
companies having franchises with the City, and except in the case of an
emergency involving health and safety, to excavate or alter any street,
sidewalk, alley, or other right-of-way in the City without first obtaining a
permit or license from the Director of Public Works as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Application for permit or license.
      (1)   An applicant for a permit or license shall file with the Director
of Public Works an application showing:
         (a)   Name and address of applicant;
         (b)   Location of proposed excavation or alteration;
         (c)   Detailed drawings and specifications of proposed excavation or
alteration;
         (d)   Estimated period of time of proposed excavation or alteration;
and
         (e)   The cost of work for the proposed excavation or alteration.
      (2)   Every application shall include the payment of a fee equal to 3% of
the cost of work set forth in the application plus $20 per specification sheet.
Fees shall be payable to the City.
      (3)   A company or business having a franchise with the City need not
apply for a permit or a license, however, such company or business shall:
         (a)   Notify the Director of Public Works prior to the start of work
(except in the case of an emergency involving health and safety);
         (b)   Comply with all blue stake and other applicable laws and
regulations;
         (c)   Prior to commencing work, erect suitable barriers and warning
devices, and provide sufficient light during the night time work to prevent
injury to persons; and
         (d)   Comply with §
150.062.
   (C)   Standards for issuance of permit or license. The Director of Public
Works shall issue a permit or license after determining that:
      (1)   The applicant’s proposal will not unreasonably interfere with
vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      (2)   The applicant will erect suitable barriers, warning signs, and
provide sufficient light during the night time to prevent injury to persons,
prior to commencing any work;
      (3)   The health, welfare, and safety of the public will not be
unreasonably injured or affected;
      (4)   The applicant will provide the City with proof of liability
insurance, naming the City as an additional insured, in amounts determined by
the Director of Public Works to be appropriate, but not less than $100,000 per
person and $300,000 per occurrence, and proof of property damage liability
insurance in an amount determined by the Director of Public Works to be
appropriate to the circumstances described in the application;
      (5)   The applicant has agreed to indemnify and to save and hold the City
harmless from any damage or liability arising out of the applicant’s excavation
or alteration; and
      (6)   The applicant has agreed to such other conditions deemed
appropriate and necessary by the Director of Public Works to protect the peace,
health, and safety of the public, including the posting of a security bond in
an amount necessary to guarantee the cost of the applicant’s compliance with
permit or license conditions and of the maintenance and restoration of the
public right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-1) (Ord. 08-04, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.061 APPLICATIONS TO COUNCIL; PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit or license required. It is unlawful for any person, except
companies having franchises with the City, and except in the case of an
emergency involving health and safety, to install or construct any structure in
or on, or otherwise occupy, use, or obstruct any street, sidewalk, alley, or
other right-of-way in the City without first obtaining a permit or license from
the Director of Public Works and the approval of the City Council as
hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Application for permit or license.
      (1)   An applicant for a permit or license shall file with the Director
of Public Works an application showing:
         (a)   Name and address of applicant;
         (b)   Location of proposed installation, construction, or use;
         (c)   Detailed drawings and specifications of proposed installation,
construction, or use;
         (d)   Estimated period of time of proposed installation, construction,
or use; and
         (e)   The cost of work for the proposed installation, construction, or
use.
      (2)   Every application shall include the payment of a fee equal to 3% of
the cost of work set forth in the application plus $20 per specification sheet.
Fees shall be payable to the City.
      (3)   The Director of Public Works shall review the application for
compliance with the following standards and present it to the City Council for
its approval or denial based upon the applicant’s compliance with the following
standards:
         (a)   The applicant’s proposal will not unreasonably interfere with
vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
         (b)   Prior to commencing any work, the applicant will erect suitable
barriers, warning signs, and provide sufficient light during the night time to
prevent injury to persons;
         (c)   The health, welfare, and safety of the public will not be
unreasonably injured or affected;
         (d)   The applicant will provide the City with proof of liability
insurance, naming the City as an additional insured, in amounts determined by
the City Council to be appropriate, but not less than $100,000 per person and
$300,000 per occurrence, and proof of property damage liability insurance in an
amount determined by the City Council to be appropriate to the circumstances
described in the application;
         (e)   The applicant has agreed to indemnify and to save and hold the
City harmless from any damage or liability arising out of the applicant’s
excavation, alteration, installation, construction, or use; and
         (f)   The applicant has agreed to such other conditions deemed
appropriate and necessary by the City Council to protect the peace, health, and
safety of the public, including the posting of a security bond in an amount
necessary to guarantee the cost of the applicant’s compliance with permit or
license conditions and of the maintenance and restoration of the public right-
of-way.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-2) (Ord. 08-04, passed 3-24-20) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.062 RESTORATION.
   All applicants who are issued a permit or a license shall at all times
maintain the public right-of-way described in the permit or license, and ensure
the removal of all debris, refuse, and waste materials and, upon expiration of
the permit or license, restore the public right-of-way to its condition prior
to the issuance of the permit or license. If the applicant fails to maintain or
restore the public right-of-way as required in this section, the appropriate
maintenance or restoration may be completed by the City, with the cost thereof
assessed directly to the applicant. The City may also retain any bond or
security posted by the applicant to offset the costs of such restoration.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-3)
§ 150.063 RIGHT TO PROHIBIT OR CONDITION ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   Notwithstanding any provisions in this subchapter concerning the standards
for issuing permits or licenses, the City Council may prohibit all excavations,
alterations, construction, installations, or other uses of the public rights-
of-way in areas of the City, and may approve permits or licenses containing
standards and conditions other than those described in this subchapter, when
the City Council believes the same to be in the best interests of the public,
or necessary to protect the peace, health, and safety of the public. The City
Council may also issue a permit or license of condition that it be revocable by
the City at any time the City determines revocation to be in the best interests
of the public or necessary to preserve the public peace, health, and safety.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-4)
§ 150.064 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Director of Public Works may investigate compliance by the
applicant with the terms of the permit or license, with the provisions of this
subchapter, and with any other pertinent provisions of the code. In the event
that the Director of Public Works finds any act of noncompliance, then the
Director shall notify the applicant, in writing, with that unless such
violation is eliminated within ten days from the date of the notice, the permit
or license is subject to revocation by the City Council.
   (B)   Notwithstanding this provision for notice of any violation, the City
Council may revoke or terminate any permit or license at any time upon finding
that the violation endangers the public peace, health, or safety.
   (C)   The City may retain any bond or security posted by the applicant as
compensation and damages to the City for such violation, and may seek to
recover any costs and damages incurred by the City from such violation in
excess of any bond or security posted by the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-5) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.065 NO PAVEMENT CUTS IN NEW STREETS.
   (A)   A permit to excavate in new streets shall not be granted for two years
after completion of street construction, reconstruction, or renovation (major
rehabilitation), unless a valid franchise agreement contains a longer term.
Utilities shall determine alternate methods of making necessary repairs to
avoid excavating in new streets. Exceptions to the above are as follows:
      (1)   Emergency which endangers life or property;
      (2)   Interruption of essential utility service;
      (3)   Work that is mandated by City, county, state, or federal
legislation; and
      (4)   Service for buildings where no other feasible means of providing
service exists.
   (B)   For the purposes of the section, a street is considered “new” when it
is first constructed, when it is reconstructed, or when it is renovated.
RENOVATION shall mean a major rehabilitation which shall include mill and
overlay or other similar roadway improvement work that physically modifies the
surface of the roadway prior to applying new roadway surface or other similar
work as determined by the City Engineer. RECONSTRUCTION shall mean completely
rebuilding all the lanes of the street by removing all the pavement and
aggregate base course material, re-compacting the sub-base and restoring the
base material, and then completely re-paving for a distance approved by the
City Engineer. The Director of Public Works or his or her designee shall
determine the date of completion for new streets and the date each street was
last reconstructed or renovated, based on the date the street was opened or
reopened for traffic.
   (C)   In addition to the obligation to restore the public right-of-way
pursuant to §
150.062, a condition of any street cut permit for cutting the pavement of a
street within one year of construction, reconstruction, or renovation issued
under sections (A)(1) through (A)(4) above shall be that the permittee renovate
such street by mill and overlay/inlay, for a minimum of the full width of all
lanes impacted by the cut(s) (outside lane includes to the curb) and for
arterial streets extending a minimum length of 50 feet both directions from the
area of the cut(s) and for collector streets extending a minimum length of 25
feet both directions from the area of the cut(s), all as more specifically
directed by the City Engineer or his or her designee; provided, however, for
pavement cuts smaller than two square feet, the requirement to renovate the
street by mill and overlay/inlay shall not apply. All permits which are issued
under sections (A)(1) through (A)(4) above shall be in accordance with the
Maricopa Association of Governments (MAG) standards.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-6) (Ord. 18-01, passed 3-12-2018)
§ 150.066 PRESERVATION AND DEDICATION OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   No application for a building permit, application for rezoning, application
for subdivision plat approval, or application for a variance from existing
zoning regulations shall be approved without first making adequate provisions
for the preservation and dedication of public rights-of-way, including any
street, sidewalk, alley, bicycle path, easement, or other right-of-way in the
City, under the following standards:
   (A)   The applicant’s proposal will not unreasonably interfere with or
otherwise affect vehicular and pedestrian traffic adjacent to or across the
subject property;
   (B)   The applicant’s proposal will not unreasonably interfere with existing
public rights-of-way adjacent to or across the subject property;
   (C)   The health, welfare, and safety of the public will not be unreasonably
injured or affected; and
   (D)   The applicant has agreed to dedicate or convey to the City sufficient
property:
      (1)   To accommodate vehicular and pedestrian traffic reasonably
envisioned as the result of the applicant’s proposed use of the subject
property and reasonably envisioned for the neighborhood in which the subject
property is located;
      (2)   To accommodate sufficient space for the installation of utilities
and for ingress and egress to operate and maintain those utilities;
      (3)   To accommodate sufficient public parking requirements reasonably
envisioned as a result of the development and use of the subject property;
      (4)   To accommodate sufficient access to and around the subject property
by City service vehicles, including trash collection vehicles and fire trucks;
and
      (5)   To conform to the general plan and established rights-of-way
widths.
(Prior Code, § 8-13)
DEVELOPMENT FEES
§ 150.080 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person who files an application with the City for a building
permit.
   APPURTENANCE. Any fixed machinery or equipment, structure, or other fixture,
including integrated hardware, software, or other components associated with a
capital facility that are necessary or convenient to the operation, use, or
maintenance of a capital facility, but excluding replacement of the same after
initial installation.
   CAPITAL FACILITY. An asset having a useful life of three or more years that
is a component of one or more categories of necessary public service provided
by the City. A CAPITAL FACILITY may include any associated purchase of real
property, architectural and engineering services leading to the design and
construction of buildings and facilities, improvements to existing facilities,
improvements to or expansions of existing facilities, and associated financing
and professional services. Whenever used herein, INFRASTRUCTURE shall have the
same meaning as CAPITAL FACILITIES.
   CATEGORY OF DEVELOPMENT. A specific category of residential, commercial, or
industrial development against which a development impact fee is calculated and
assessed.
   CATEGORY OF NECESSARY PUBLIC SERVICE. A category of necessary public service
for which the City is authorized to assess development impact fees pursuant to
A.R.S. § 9-463.05, as further defined in §
150.086(A)(1).
   CONNECTION. The physical tie-in of an applicant’s sewer service to the
City’s sewer main.
   CREDIT. A reduction in an assessed development impact fee resulting from
developer contributions to, payments for, construction of, or dedications for
capital facilities included in an infrastructure improvements plan as permitted
by §
150.090.
   CREDIT AGREEMENT. A written agreement between the City and the developer(s)
of subject development that allocates credits to the subject development
pursuant to this subchapter. A CREDIT AGREEMENT may be included as part of a
development agreement pursuant to §
150.091.
   CREDIT ALLOCATION. A term used to describe when credits are distributed to a
particular development or parcel of land after execution of a credit agreement,
but are not yet issued.
   CREDIT ISSUANCE. A term used to describe when the amount of an assessed
development impact fee attributable to a particular development or parcel of
land is reduced by applying a credit allocation.
   DEVELOPER. An individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation,
limited liability company, association, municipal corporation, state agency, or
other person or entity undertaking land development activity, and their
respective successors and assigns.
   DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT. An agreement prepared in accordance with the
requirements of §
150.091, A.R.S. § 9-500.05, and any applicable requirements of the City code.
   DIRECT BENEFIT. A benefit to an EDU resulting from a capital facility that:
addresses the need for a necessary public service created in whole or in part
by the EDU; and that meets either of the following criteria:
      (1)   The capital facility is located in the immediate area of the EDU
and is needed in the immediate area of the EDU to maintain the level of
service; or
      (2)   The capital facility substitutes for, or eliminates the need for a
capital facility that would have otherwise have been needed in the immediate
area of the EDU to maintain the City’s level of service.
   DWELLING UNIT or HOUSING UNIT. A room or group of rooms within a building
containing cooking accommodations and designed to be used for living purposes.
Each apartment unit, mobile home or mobile home space, travel trailer, or
travel trailer space shall be considered a DWELLING UNIT. DWELLING UNIT shall
not include those units designed primarily for transient occupant purposes, nor
shall they include rooms in hospitals or nursing homes.
      (1)   SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED DWELLING UNIT. A dwelling unit designed and
used only by one family and which unit is physically separated from any other
dwelling unit.
      (2)   ALL OTHER DWELLING UNITS. A dwelling unit typically designed and
used only for a single family, but which is either attached to another dwelling
unit, such as an apartment, duplex, townhouse, or single-family attached
dwelling unit, or which is a mobile home, mobile home space, travel trailer, or
travel trailer spaces.
   EQUIPMENT. Machinery, tools, materials, and other supplies, not including
vehicles, that are needed by a capital facility to provide the level of service
specified by the infrastructure improvement plan, but excluding replacement of
the same after initial development of the capital facility.
   EQUIVALENT DEMAND UNIT (EDU). A unit of development within a category of
development, defined in terms of a standardized measure of the demand that a
unit of development in that category of development generates for necessary
public services in relation to the demand generated by a detached single-family
dwelling unit. For all categories of necessary public services, the EDU factor
for a detached single-family dwelling unit is one, while the EDU factor for a
unit of development within another category of development is represented as a
ration of the demand for each category of necessary public services typically
generated by that unit as compared to the demand for such services typically
generated by a detached single-family dwelling unit. An EDU shall be a “service
unit” for purposes of A.R.S. § 9-463.05(T)(10).
   EXCLUDED LIBRARY FACILITY. Library facilities for which development fees may
not be charged pursuant to A.R.S. § 9-463.05, including that portion of any
library facility that exceeds 10,000 square feet, and equipment, vehicles, or
appurtenances associated with the library.
   EXCLUDED PARK FACILITY. Park and recreational facilities for which
development fees may not be charged pursuant to A.R.S. § 9-463.05, including
amusement parks, aquariums, aquatic centers, auditoriums, arenas, arts and
cultural facilities, bandstand and orchestra facilities, bathhouses,
boathouses, clubhouses, community centers greater than 3,000 square feet in
floor area, environmental education centers, equestrian facilities, golf course
facilities, greenhouses, lakes, museums, theme parks, water reclamation or
riparian areas, wetlands, or zoo facilities.
   FEE REPORT. A written report developed pursuant to A.R.S. § 9-463.05 that
identifies the methodology for calculating the amount of each development
impact fee, explains the relationship between the development impact fee to be
assessed and the plan-based cost per service units calculated in the
infrastructure improvements plan, and which meets other requirements set forth
in A.R.S. § 9-463.05.
   FINANCING or DEBT. Any debt, bond, note, loan, interfund loan, fund
transfer, or other debt service obligation used to finance the development or
expansion of a capital facility.
   FIRE PROTECTION. A category of necessary public services that includes fire
stations, fire equipment, fire vehicles, and all appurtenances for fire
stations. FIRE PROTECTION does not include vehicles and equipment used to
provide administrative services, or helicopters or airplanes. FIRE PROTECTION
does not include any facility that is used for training firefighters from more
than one station or substation.
   GENERAL PLAN. Refers to the overall land-use plan for the City establishing
areas of the City for different purposes, zones, and activities, adopted
pursuant to A.R.S. Title 9, Chapter 4, Article 6, as amended, including
specific plans, if any, and including any part of such plan separately adopted
and any amendment to such plan, or parts thereof.
   GRANDFATHERED FACILITIES. Capital facilities provided through financing or
debt incurred before June 1, 2011 for which a development impact fee has been
pledged towards repayment as described in §
150.083(C).
   GROSS IMPACT FEE. The total development impact fee to be assessed against a
subject development on a per-unit basis, prior to subtraction of any credits.
   INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENT PLAN. A document or series of documents that meet
the requirements set forth in A.R.S. § 9-463.05, including those adopted
pursuant to the City code to cover any category or combination of categories of
necessary public services.
   INTERIM FEE SCHEDULE. Any development impact fee schedule established prior
to January 1, 2012 in accordance with then-applicable law, and which shall
expire not later than August 1, 2014 pursuant to §
150.089.
   LAND USE ASSUMPTIONS. Projections of changes in land uses, densities,
intensities, and population for a service area over a period of at least ten
years as specified in §
150.085.
   LEVEL OF SERVICE. A quantitative and/or qualitative measure of a necessary
public service that is to be provided by the City to development in a
particular service area, defined in terms of the relationship between service
capacity and service demand, accessibility, response times, comfort or
convenience of use, or other similar measures or combinations of measures.
LEVEL OF SERVICE may be measured differently for different categories of
necessary public services, as identified in the applicable infrastructure
improvement plan.
   LIBRARY FACILITIES. A category of necessary public services in which
literary, musical, artistic, or reference materials are kept (materials may be
kept in any form of media such as electronic, magnetic, or paper) for non-
commercial use by the public in a facility providing a direct benefit to
development. LIBRARIES do not include excluded library facilities, although a
library may contain, provide access to, or otherwise support an excluded
library facility.
   NECESSARY PUBLIC SERVICES. Those services prescribed in A.R.S. § 9-463.05(T)
(7).
   OFFSET. An amount which is subtracted from the overall costs of providing
necessary public services to account for those capital components of
infrastructure or associated debt that have been or will be paid for by a
development through taxes, fees (except for development impact fees), and other
revenue sources, as determined by the City pursuant to §
150.086.
   PARKS AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES. A category of necessary public services,
including, but not limited to, parks, swimming pools, and related facilities
and equipment located on real property not larger than 30 acres in area, as
well as park facilities larger than 30 acres where such facilities provide a
direct benefit. PARKS AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES do not include excluded park
facilities, although parks and recreational facilities may contain, provide
access to, or otherwise support an excluded park facility.
   PLAN-BASED COST PER SERVICE UNITS. The total future capital costs listed in
the infrastructure improvements plan for a category of necessary public
services divided by the total new equivalent demand units projected in the City
for that category of necessary public services over the same time period.
   PLEDGED. A development impact fee shall be considered PLEDGED where it was
identified by the City as a source of payment or repayment for financing or
debt that was identified as the source of financing for a necessary public
service for which a development impact fee was assessed pursuant to the then-
applicable provisions of A.R.S. § 9-463.05.
   POLICE FACILITIES. A category of necessary public services, including
vehicles and equipment used by law enforcement agencies to preserve the public
peace, prevent crime, detect and arrest criminal offenders, protect the rights
of persons and property, regulate and control motorized and pedestrian traffic,
train sworn personnel, and/or provide and maintain police records, vehicles,
equipment, and communications systems. Such costs do not include vehicles and
equipment used to provide administrative services, helicopters or airplanes, or
any facility that is used for training officers from more than one station or
substation.
   QUALIFIED PROFESSIONAL. Any one of the following:
      (1)   A professional engineer, surveyor, financial analyst or planner, or
other licensed professional providing services within the scope of that
person’s education or experience related to City planning, zoning, or impact
development fees and holding a license issued by an agency or political
subdivision of the State of Arizona;
      (2)   A financial analyst, planner, or other non-licensed professional
that is providing services within the scope of the person’s education or
experience related to City planning, zoning, or impact development fees; or
      (3)   Any other person operating under the supervision of one or more of
the above.
   SERVICE AREA. Any specified area within the boundaries of the City within
which: the City will provide a category of necessary public services to
development at a planned level of service and within which a substantial nexus
exists between the capital facilities to be provided and the development to be
served, or in the case of library facilities or a park facility larger than 30
acres, a direct benefit exists between the library facilities or park
facilities and the development to be served, each as prescribed in the
infrastructure improvement plan. Some or all of the capital facilities
providing service to a SERVICE AREA may be physically located outside of that
service area provided that the required substantial nexus or direct benefit is
demonstrated to exist.
   SERVICE UNIT. A unit of development within a particular category of
development, defined in terms of a standardized measure of the demand that a
unit of development in that category of development generates for necessary
public services in relation to the demand generated by a detached single-family
dwelling unit. For all categories of necessary public services, the SERVICE
UNIT factor for a detached single-family dwelling unit is one, while the
SERVICE UNITS factor for a unit of development within another category of
development is represented as a ratio of the demand for each category of
necessary public services typically generated by that unit as compared to the
demand for such services typically generated by a detached single-family
dwelling unit.
   STREET FACILITIES. A category of necessary public services, including
arterial or collector streets or roads that have been designated on an
officially adopted plan of the municipality, traffic signals, and rights-of-way
and improvements thereon.
   SUBJECT DEVELOPMENT. Any land area linked by a unified plan of development,
which must be contiguous unless the land area is part of a development
agreement executed in accordance with §
150.091.
   SUBSTANTIAL NEXUS. Exists where the demand for necessary public services
that will be generated by an EDU can be reasonably quantified in terms of the
burden it will impose on the available capacity of existing capital facilities,
the need it will create for new or expanded capital facilities, and/or the
benefit to the development from those capital facilities.
   USEFUL LIFE. The period of time in which an asset can reasonably be expected
to be used under normal conditions, whether or not the asset will continue to
be owned and operated by the City over the entirety of such period.
   VEHICLE. Any device, structure, or conveyance utilized for transportation in
the course of providing a particular category of necessary public services at a
specified level of service, excluding helicopters and other aircraft.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. A category of necessary public services, including,
but not limited to, sewers, lift stations, reclamation plants, wastewater
treatment plants, and all other facilities for the collection, interception,
transportation, treatment, and disposal of wastewater, and any appurtenances
for those facilities.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-1) (Ord. 14-06, passed 7-7-2014)
§ 150.081 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purposes and intent of the City’s Development Fee Code and procedures
are:
   (A)   To establish uniform procedures for the imposition, calculation,
collection, expenditure, and administration of any development impact fees
imposed on a new development;
   (B)   To implement the goals, objectives, and policies of the City’s general
plan, as amended from time to time, to assure that new development contributes
its proportionate share of the costs incurred by the City that are associated
with providing necessary public services to new development;
   (C)   To set forth standards and procedures for creating and assessing
development impact fees consistent with the requirements of A.R.S. § 9-463.05,
including requirements pursuant to A.R.S. § 9-463.05(K) that, on or before
August 1, 2014, the City replace its development impact fees that were adopted
prior to January 1, 2012 with development impact fees adopted pursuant to the
requirements of A.R.S. § 9-463.05, as amended by the state legislature in SB
1525, Fiftieth Legislature, First Regular Session;
   (D)   To provide for the temporary continuation of certain development
impact fees adopted prior to January 1, 2012 until otherwise replaced pursuant
to this Chapter, or longer where such development impact fees were pledged to
support financing or debt for a grandfathered facility as permitted by A.R.S. §
9-463.05(K), (R), and (S); and
   (E)   To set forth procedures for administering the development impact fee
program, including mandatory offsets, credits, and refunds of development
impact fees. All development impact fee assessments, offsets, credits, or
refunds must be administered in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-2) (Ord. 14-06, passed 7-7-2014)
§ 150.082 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided herein, from and after August 1, 2014,
this subchapter shall apply to all new development within any service area.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all of the territory
within the corporate limits of the City and/or within the City’s wastewater
service areas.
   (C)   The City Manager or his or her designee is authorized to make
determinations regarding the application, administration, and enforcement of
the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-3) (Ord. 14-06, passed 7-7-2014)
§ 150.083 AUTHORITY FOR DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES.
   (A)   Fee report and implementation. The City may assess and collect a
development impact fee for costs of necessary public services, including all
professional services required for the preparation or revision of an
infrastructure improvements plan, fee report, development impact fee, and
required reports or audits conducted pursuant to this subchapter. Development
impact fees shall be subject to the following requirements.
      (1)   The City shall develop and adopt a fee report that analyzes and
defines the development impact fees to be charged in each service area for each
capital facility category, based on the infrastructure improvements plan and
the plan-based cost per EDU calculated pursuant to §
150.086(A)(12).
      (2)   Development impact fees shall be assessed against all new
commercial, residential, and industrial developments, provided that the City
may assess different amounts of development impact fees against specific
categories of development based on the actual burdens and costs that are
associated with providing necessary public services to that category of
development. No development impact fee shall exceed the plan-based cost per EDU
for any category of development.
      (3)   No development impact fees shall be charged, or credits issued, for
any capital facility that does not fall within one of the categories of
necessary public services for which development impact fees may be assessed as
identified in §
150.086(A)(1).
      (4)   Costs for necessary public services made necessary by new
development shall be based on the same level of service provided to existing
development in the same service area. Development impact fees may not be used
to provide a higher level of service to existing development or to meet
stricter safety, efficiency, environmental, or other regulatory standards to
the extent that these are applied to existing capital facilities that are
serving existing development.
      (5)   Development impact fees may not be used to pay the City’s
administrative, maintenance, or other operating costs.
      (6)   Projected interest charges and financing costs can only be included
in development impact fees to the extent they represent principal and/or
interest on the portion of any financing or debt used to finance the
construction or expansion of a capital facility identified in the
infrastructure improvements plan.
      (7)   Except for any fees included on interim fee schedules, all
development impact fees charged by the City must be included in a “fee
schedule” prepared pursuant to this subchapter and included in the fee report;
example versions of all fee schedules are provided in §
150.095.
      (8)   All development impact fees shall meet the requirements of A.R.S. §
9-463.05.
   (B)   Costs per EDU. The fee report shall summarize the costs of capital
facilities necessary to serve new development on a per EDU basis as defined and
calculated in the infrastructure improvements plan, including all required
offsets, and shall recommend a development impact fee structure for adoption by
the City. The actual impact fees to be assessed shall be disclosed and adopted
in the form of impact fee schedules described in §
150.095.
   (C)   Carry-over of previously established development impact fees and
grandfathered facilities. Notwithstanding the requirements of this subchapter,
certain development impact fees adopted by the City prior to the effective date
of this subchapter shall continue in effect as follows.
      (1)   Until August 1, 2014 or the date a new development impact fee is
effective for the applicable category of necessary public services in a service
area pursuant to this subchapter, whichever occurs first, development impact
fees established prior to January 1, 2012 shall continue in full force and
effect to the extent that the development impact fee is used to provide a
category of necessary public services that is authorized by §
150.086. Development impact fees collected prior to January 1, 2012, shall be
expended on capital facilities within the same category of necessary public
services for which they were collected.
      (2)   The City may continue to collect and use any development impact fee
established before January 1, 2012, even if the development impact fee would
not otherwise be permitted to be collected and spent pursuant to A.R.S. § 9-
463.05, as amended by the state legislature in SB 1525, Fiftieth Legislature,
First Regular Session, if either of the following apply:
         (a)   Both of the following conditions are met:
            1.   Prior to June 1, 2011, the development impact fee was pledged
toward the repayment of financing or debt incurred by the City to provide a
capital facility; and
            2.   The applicable capital facility was included in the City’s
infrastructure improvements plan, or other City planning document prepared
pursuant to applicable law, prior to June 1, 2011.
         (b)   Before August 1, 2014, the City uses the development impact fee
to finance a capital facility in accordance with A.R.S. § 9-463.05(S).
      (3)   Defined terms in any previously established fee schedule shall be
interpreted according to the ordinance in effect at the time of their adoption.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-4) (Ord. 14-06, passed 7-7-2014)
§ 150.084 ADMINISTRATION OF DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES.
   (A)   Separate accounts. Development impact fees collected pursuant to this
subchapter shall be placed in separate, interest-bearing accounts for each
capital facility category within each service area.
   (B)   Limitations on use of fees. Development impact fees and any interest
thereon collected pursuant to this subchapter shall be spent to provide capital
facilities associated with the same category of necessary public services in
the same service area for which they were collected, including costs of
financing or debt used by the City to finance such capital facilities and other
costs authorized by this subchapter that are included in the infrastructure
improvements plan.
   (C)   Time limit. Development impact fees collected after July 31, 2014
shall be used within ten years of the date upon which they were collected for
all categories of necessary public services except for water and wastewater
facilities. For water facilities or wastewater facilities collected after July
31, 2014, development impact fees must be used within 15 years of the date upon
which they were collected.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-5) (Ord. 14-06, passed 7-7-2014)
§ 150.085 LAND USE ASSUMPTIONS.
   The infrastructure improvements plan shall be consistent with the City’s
current land use assumptions for each service area and each category of
necessary public services as adopted by the City pursuant to A.R.S. § 9-463.05.
   (A)   Reviewing the land use assumptions. Prior to the adoption or amendment
of an infrastructure improvements plan, the City shall review and evaluate the
land use assumptions on which the infrastructure improvements plan is to be
based to ensure that the land use assumptions within each service area conforms
with the general plan.
   (B)   Evaluating necessary changes. If the land use assumptions upon which
an infrastructure improvements plan is based have not been updated within the
last five years, the City shall evaluate the land use assumptions to determine
whether changes are necessary. If, after general evaluation, the City
determines that the land use assumptions are still valid, the City shall issue
the report required in §
150.088.
   (C)   Required modifications to land use assumptions. If the City determines
that changes to the land use assumptions are necessary in order to adopt or
amend an infrastructure improvements plan, it shall make such changes as
necessary to the land use assumptions prior to or in conjunction with the
review and approval of the infrastructure improvements plan pursuant to §
150.088.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-6) (Ord. 14-06, passed 7-7-2014)
§ 150.086 INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS PLAN.
   (A)   Infrastructure improvements plan contents. The infrastructure
improvements plan shall be developed by qualified professionals and may be
based upon or incorporated within the City’s capital improvements plan. The
infrastructure improvements plan shall:
      (1)   Specify the categories of necessary public services for which the
City will impose a development impact fee, which may include any or all of the
following:
         (a)   Water;
         (b)   Wastewater;
         (c)   Stormwater, drainage, and flood control;
         (d)   Libraries;
         (e)   Street facilities;
         (f)   Fire protection;
         (g)   Police; and
         (h)   Parks.
      (2)   Define and provide a map of one or more service areas within which
the City will provide each category of necessary public services for which
development impact fees will be charged. Each service area must be defined in a
manner that demonstrates a substantial nexus between the capital facilities to
be provided in the service area and the EDUs to be served by those capital
facilities. For libraries and for parks larger than 30 acres, each service area
must be defined in a manner that demonstrates a direct benefit between the
capital facilities and the EDUs to be served by those capital facilities. The
City may cover more than one category of capital facilities in the same service
area, provided that there is an independent substantial nexus or direct
benefit, as applicable, between each category of necessary public services and
the EDUs to be served;
      (3)   Identify and describe the land use assumptions upon which the
infrastructure improvements plan is based in each service area;
      (4)   Analyze and identify the existing level of service provided by the
City to existing EDUs for each category of necessary public services in each
service area;
      (5)   Identify the level of service to be provided by the City for each
category of necessary public services in each service area based on the
relevant land use assumptions and any established City standards or policies
related to required levels of service. If the City provides the same category
of necessary public services in more than one service area, the infrastructure
improvements plan shall include a comparison of the levels of service to be
provided in each service area;
      (6)   For each category of necessary public services, analyze and
identify the existing capacity of the capital facilities in each service area,
the utilization of those capital facilities by existing EDUs, and the available
excess capacity of those capital facilities to serve new EDUs including any
existing or planned commitments or agreements for the usage of such capacity.
The infrastructure improvements plan shall additionally identify any changes or
upgrades to existing capital facilities that will be needed to achieve or
maintain the planned level of service to existing EDUs, or to meet new safety,
efficiency, environmental, or other regulatory requirements for services
provided to existing EDUs;
      (7)   Identify any grandfathered facilities and the impact thereof on the
need for necessary public services in each affected service area;
      (8)   Estimate the total number of existing and future EDUs within each
service area based on the City’s land use assumptions and projected new EDUs in
each service area;
      (9)   Based on the analysis in sections (A)(3) through (A)(6) above,
provide a summary table or tables describing the level of service for each
category of necessary public services by relating the required capital
facilities to EDUs in each service area, and identifying the applicable EDU
factor associated with each category of development;
      (10)   For each category of necessary public services, analyze and
identify the projected utilization of any available excess capacity in existing
capital facilities, and all new or expanded capital facilities that will be
required to provide and maintain the planned level of service in each service
area as a result of the new projected EDUs in that service area, for a period
not to exceed ten years. Nothing in this section (A)(10) shall prohibit the
City from additionally including in its infrastructure improvements plan
projected utilization of, or needs for, capital facilities for a period longer
than ten years, provided that the costs of such capital facilities are excluded
from the calculation of the plan-based cost per EDU;
      (11)   For each category of necessary public services, estimate the total
cost of any available excess capacity and/or new or expanded capital facilities
that will be required to serve new EDUs, including costs of land acquisition,
improvements, engineering and architectural services, studies leading to
design, design, construction, financing, and administrative costs, as well as
projected costs of inflation. Such total costs shall not include costs for
ongoing operation and maintenance of capital facilities, nor for replacement of
capital facilities to the extent that such replacement is necessary to serve
existing EDUs. If the infrastructure improvements plan includes changes or
upgrades to existing capital facilities that will be needed to achieve or
maintain the planned level of service to existing EDUs, or to meet new
regulatory requirements for services provided to existing EDUs, such costs
shall be identified and distinguished in the infrastructure improvements plan;
      (12)   Forecast the revenues from taxes, fees, assessments, or other
sources that will be available to fund the new or expanded capital facilities
identified in the infrastructure improvements plan, which shall include
estimated state-shared revenue, highway users revenue, federal revenue, ad
valorem property taxes, construction contracting or similar excise taxes, and
the capital recovery portion of utility fees attributable to development based
on the approved land use assumptions. The infrastructure improvements plan
shall additionally estimate the time required to finance, construct, and
implement the new or expanded capital facilities;
      (13)   Calculate required offsets as follows.
         (a)   From the forecasted revenues in section (A)(12) above, identify
those sources of revenue that are attributable to new development and will
contribute to paying for the capital costs of necessary public services.
         (b)   For each source and amount of revenue identified pursuant to
section (A)(13)(a) above, calculate the relative contribution of each category
of development to paying for the capital costs of necessary public services in
each service area.
         (c)   Based on the relative contributions identified pursuant to
section (A)(13)(b) above, for each category of necessary public services,
calculate the total offset to be provided to each category of development in
each service area.
         (d)   For each category of necessary public services, convert the
total offset to be provided to each category of development in each service
area into an offset amount per EDU by dividing the total offset for each
category of development by the number of EDUs associated with that category of
development.
         (e)   Beginning August 1, 2014, for purposes of calculating the
required offset, if the City imposes a construction, contracting, or similar
excise tax rate in excess of the percentage amount of the transaction privilege
tax rate that is imposed on the majority of other transaction privilege tax
classifications in the City, the entire excess portion of the construction,
contracting, or similar excise tax shall be treated as a contribution to the
capital costs of necessary public services provided to new development unless
the excess portion is already utilized for such purpose pursuant to this
section.
         (f)   In determining the amount of required offset for land included
in a community facilities district established under A.R.S. Title 48, Chapter
4, Article 6, the City shall take into account any capital facilities provided
by the district that are included in the infrastructure improvements plan and
the capital costs paid by the district for such capital facilities, and shall
offset impact fees assessed within the community facilities district
proportionally.
      (14)   Calculate the plan-based cost per EDU by:
         (a)   Dividing the total projected costs to provide capital facilities
to new EDUs for each category of necessary public services in each service area
as determined pursuant to section (A)(9) above into the number of new EDUs
projected for that service area over a period not to exceed ten years,
considering the specific EDU factor(s) associated with such EDUs for each
category of necessary public services; or
         (b)   Subtracting the required offset per EDU calculated pursuant to
section (A)(11) above.
   (B)   Multiple plans. An infrastructure improvements plan adopted pursuant
to this section may address one or more of the City’s categories of necessary
public services in any or all of the City’s service areas. Each capital
facility shall be subject to no more than one infrastructure improvements plan
at any given time.
   (C)   Reserved capacity. The City may reserve capacity in an infrastructure
improvements plan to serve one or more planned future developments, including
capacity reserved through a development agreement pursuant to §
150.091. All reservations of existing capacity must be disclosed in the
infrastructure improvements plan at the time it is adopted.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-7) (Ord. 14-06, passed 7-7-2014)
§ 150.087 ADOPTION AND MODIFICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Adopting or amending the infrastructure improvements plan. The
infrastructure improvements plan shall be adopted or amended subject to the
following procedures.
      (1)   Major amendments to the infrastructure improvements plan. Except as
provided in section (A)(2) below, the adoption or amendment of an
Infrastructure Improvement Plan shall occur at one or more public hearings
according to the following schedule, and may occur concurrently with the
adoption of an update of the City’s land use assumptions as provided in §
150.085.
         (a)   Sixty days before the first public hearing regarding a new or
updated infrastructure improvements plan, the City shall provide public notice
of the hearing and post the infrastructure improvements plan and the underlying
land use assumptions on its website; the City shall additionally make available
to the public the documents used to prepare the infrastructure improvements
plan and underlying land use assumptions and the amount of any proposed changes
to the plan-based cost per EDU.
         (b)   The City shall conduct a public hearing on the infrastructure
improvements plan and underlying land use assumptions at least 30 days, but no
more than 60 days, before approving or disapproving the infrastructure
improvements plan.
      (2)   Minor amendments to the infrastructure improvements plan.
Notwithstanding the other requirements of this section, the City may update the
infrastructure improvements plan and/or its underlying land use assumptions
without a public hearing if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The changes in the infrastructure improvements plan and/or the
underlying land use assumptions will not add any new category of necessary
public services to any service area;
         (b)   The changes in the infrastructure improvements plan and/or the
underlying land use assumptions will not increase the level of service to be
provided in any service area;
         (c)   Based on an analysis of the fee report and the City’s adopted
development impact fee schedules, the changes in the infrastructure
improvements plan and/or the underlying land use assumptions would not,
individually or cumulatively with other amendments undertaken pursuant to this
section, have caused a development impact fee in any service area to have been
increased by more than 5% above the development impact fee that is provided in
the current development impact fee schedule; and
         (d)   At least 30 days prior to the date that the any amendment
pursuant to this section is adopted, the City shall post the proposed
amendments on the City website.
   (B)   Amendments to the fee report. Any adoption or amendment of a fee
report and fee schedule shall occur at one or more public hearings according to
the following schedule.
      (1)   The first public hearing on the fee report must be held at least 30
days after the adoption or approval of and infrastructure improvements plan as
provided in section (A) above. The City must give at least 30 days’ notice
prior to the hearing, provided that this notice may be given on the same day as
the approval or disapproval of the infrastructure improvements plan.
      (2)   The City shall make the infrastructure improvements plan and
underlying land use assumptions available to the public on the City’s website
30 days prior to the public hearing described in section (B)(1) above.
      (3)   The fee report may be adopted by the City no sooner than 30 days,
and no later than 60 days, after the hearing described in section (B)(1) above.
      (4)   The development fee schedules in the fee report adopted pursuant to
this section shall become effective 75 days after adoption of the fee report by
the City.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-8) (Ord. 14-06, passed 7-7-2014)
§ 150.088 TIMING FOR RENEWAL AND UPDATING OF THE INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS
PLAN AND LAND USE ASSUMPTIONS.
   (A)   Renewing the infrastructure improvements plan. Except as provided in
section (B) below, not later than every five years the City shall update the
applicable infrastructure improvements plan and fee report related to each
category of necessary public services pursuant to §
150.087. Such five-year period shall be calculated from the date of the
adoption of the infrastructure improvements plan or the date of the adoption of
the fee report, whichever occurs later.
   (B)   Determination of no changes. Notwithstanding section (A) above, if the
City determines that no changes to an infrastructure improvements plan,
underlying land use assumptions, or fee report are needed, the City may elect
to continue the existing infrastructure improvements plan and fee report
without amendment by providing notice as follows.
      (1)   Notice of the determination shall be published at least 180 days
prior to the end of the five-year period described in section (A) above.
      (2)   The notice shall identify the infrastructure improvements plan and
fee report that shall continue in force without amendment.
      (3)   The notice shall provide a map and description of the service area
(s) covered by such infrastructure improvements plan and fee report.
      (4)   The notice shall identify an address to which any resident of the
City may submit, within 60 days, a written request that the City update the
infrastructure improvements plan, underlying land use assumptions, and/or fee
report and the reasons and basis for the request.
   (C)   Response to comments. The City shall consider and respond within 30
days to any timely requests submitted pursuant to section (B)(4) above.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-9) (Ord. 14-06, passed 7-7-2014)
§ 150.089 COLLECTION OF DEVELOPMENT FEES.
   (A)   Collection. Development impact fees, together with administrative
charges assessed pursuant to section (A)(6) below, shall be calculated and
collected prior to issuance of permission to commence development, specifically
as follows.
      (1)   Unless otherwise specified pursuant to a development agreement
adopted pursuant to §
150.091, development impact fees shall be paid prior to issuance of a building
permit according to the current development impact fee schedule for the
applicable service area(s) as adopted pursuant to this subchapter, or according
to any other development impact fee schedule as authorized in this subchapter.
      (2)   If a building permit is not required for the development, but water
or wastewater connections are required, any and all development impact fees due
shall be paid at the time the water service connection is purchased. If only a
wastewater connection is required, the development impact fees shall be paid
prior to approval of a connection to the sewer system. Wastewater development
impact fees shall be assessed if a development connects to the public sewer, or
as determined by the Director of Growth Management or designee, is capable of
discharging sewage to a City public sewer.
      (3)   If the development is located in a service area with a storm water,
drainage, and flood control development impact fee, and neither a building
permit, water, or sewer service connection is required, the storm drainage
development impact fee due shall be paid at the time a civil or site permit is
issued for the development.
      (4)   No building permit, water or sewer connection, or certificate of
occupancy shall be issued if a development impact fee is not paid as directed
in the previous sections (A)(1) through (A)(3).
      (5)   If the building permit is for a change in the type of building use,
an increase in square footage, a change to land use, or an addition to a
residential or nonresidential point of demand to the water or wastewater
system, the development impact fee shall be assessed on the additional service
units resulting from the expansion or change, and following the development
impact fee schedule applicable to any new use type.
      (6)   For issued permits that expire or are voided, development impact
fees and administrative charges shall be as follows.
         (a)   If the original permittee is seeking to renew an expired or
voided permit, and the development impact fees paid for such development have
not been refunded, then the permittee shall pay the difference between any
development impact fees paid at the time the permit was issued and those in the
fee schedule at the time the permit is reissued or renewed.
         (b)   If a new or renewed permit for the same development is being
sought by someone other than the original permittee, the new permit applicant
shall pay the full development impact fees specified in the fee schedule in
effect at the time that the permits are reissued or renewed. If the original
permittee has assigned its rights under the permits to the new permit
applicant, the new permit applicant shall pay development impact fees as if it
were the original permittee.
   (B)   Exceptions. Development impact fees shall not be owed under either of
the following conditions:
      (1)   Development impact fees have been paid for the development and the
permit(s) which triggered the collection of the development impact fees have
not expired or been voided; or
      (2)   The approval(s) that trigger the collection of development impact
fees involve modifications to existing residential or non-residential
development that do not add new EDUs, increase the impact of existing EDUs on
existing or future capital facilities, or change the land-use type of the
existing development to a different category of development for which a higher
development impact fee would have been due. To the extent that any modification
does not meet the requirements of this section (B)(2), the development impact
fee due shall be the difference between the development impact fee that was or
would have been due on the existing development and the development impact fee
that is due on the development as modified.
   (C)   Temporary exemptions from development impact fee schedules. New
developments in the City shall be temporarily exempt from increases in
development impact fees that result from the adoption of new or modified
development impact fee schedules as follows.
      (1)   Residential uses. On or after the day that the first building
permit is issued for a single-family residential development, the City shall,
at the permittee’s request, provide the permittee with an applicable
development impact fee schedule that shall be in force for a period of 24
months beginning on the day that the first building permit is issued, and which
shall expire at the end of the first business day of the twenty-fifth month
thereafter. During the effective period of the applicable development impact
fee schedule, any building permit issued for the same single-family residential
development shall not be subject to any new or modified development impact fee
schedule.
      (2)   Commercial, industrial, and multi-family uses. On or after the day
that the final approval, as defined in A.R.S. § 9-463.05(T)(4), is issued for a
commercial, industrial, or multi-family development, the City shall provide an
applicable development impact fee schedule that shall be in force for a period
of 24 months, beginning on the day that final development approval of a site
plan or final subdivision plat is given, and which shall expire at the end of
the first business day of the twenty-fifth month thereafter. During the
effective period of the applicable development impact fee schedule, any
building permit issued for the same development shall not be subject to any new
or modified development impact fee schedule.
      (3)   Other development. Any category of development not covered under
sections (C)(1) and (C)(2) above shall pay development impact fees according to
the fee schedule that is current at the time of collection as specified in
section (A) above.
      (4)   Changes to site plans and subdivision plats. Notwithstanding the
other requirements of this section, if changes are made to a development’s
final site plan or subdivision plat that will increase the number of service
units after the issuance of a grandfathered development impact fee schedule,
the City may assess any new or modified development impact fees against the
additional service units. If the City reduces the amount of an applicable
development impact fee during the period that a grandfathered development
impact fee schedule is in force, the City shall assess the lower development
impact fee.
   (D)   Option to pursue special fee determination. Where a development is of
a type that does not closely fit within a particular category of development
appearing on an adopted development impact fee schedule, or where a development
has unique characteristics such that the actual burdens and costs associated
with providing necessary public services to that development will differ
substantially from that associated with other developments in a specified
category of development, the City may require the applicant to provide the City
Growth Management Department Director or authorized designee with an
alternative development impact fee analysis. Based on a projection of the
actual burdens and costs that will be associated with the development, the
alternative development impact fee analysis may propose a unique fee for the
development based on the application of an appropriate EDU factor to the
applicable plan-based cost per EDU, or may propose that the development be
covered under the development impact fee schedule governing a different and
more analogous category of development. The City’s Growth Management Department
Director or authorized designee shall review the alternative impact fee
analysis and shall make a determination as to the development impact fee to be
charged. Such decision shall be appealable pursuant to §
150.092. The City Growth Management Department Director or authorized designee
may require the applicant to pay an administrative fee to cover the actual
costs of reviewing the special fee determination application.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-10) (Ord. 14-06, passed 7-7-2014)
§ 150.090 DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE CREDITS AND CREDIT AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Eligibility of capital facility. All development impact fee credits
must meet the following requirements.
      (1)   One of the following is true:
         (a)   The capital facility, or the financial contribution toward a
capital facility that will be provided by the developer and for which a credit
will be issued, must be identified in an adopted infrastructure improvements
plan and fee report as a capital facility for which a development impact fee
was assessed; or
         (b)   The applicant must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the City
that, given the class and type of improvement, the subject capital facility
should have been included in the infrastructure improvements plan in lieu of a
different capital facility that was included in the infrastructure improvements
plan and for which a development impact fee was assessed. If the subject
capital facility is determined to be eligible for a credit in this manner, the
City shall amend the infrastructure improvements plan to include the subject
replacement facility and delete the capital facility that will be replaced.
      (2)   Credits shall not be available for any infrastructure provided by a
developer if the cost of such infrastructure will be repaid to the developer by
the City through another agreement or mechanism. To the extent that the
developer will be paid or reimbursed by the City for any contribution, payment,
construction, or dedication from any City funding source including an agreement
to reimburse the developer with future collected development impact fees
pursuant to §
150.091, any credits claimed by the developer shall be deducted from any
amounts to be paid or reimbursed by the City or reduced by the amount of such
payment or reimbursement.
   (B)   Eligibility of subject development. To be eligible for a credit, the
subject development must be located within the service area of the eligible
capital facility.
   (C)   Calculation of credits. Credits will be based on that portion of the
costs for an eligible capital facility identified in the adopted infrastructure
improvements plan for which a development fee was assessed pursuant to the fee
report. If the gross impact fee for a particular category of necessary public
service is adopted at an amount lower than the plan-based cost per EDU, the
amount of any credit shall be reduced in proportion to the difference between
the plan-based cost per EDU and the gross impact fee adopted. A credit shall
not exceed the actual costs the applicant incurred in providing the eligible
capital facility.
   (D)   Allocation of credits. Before any credit can be issued to a subject
development (or portion thereof), the credit must be allocated to that
development as follows.
      (1)   The developer and the City must execute a credit agreement
including all of the following:
         (a)   The total amount of the credits resulting from provision of an
eligible capital facility;
         (b)   The estimated number of EDUs to be served within the subject
development; and
         (c)   The method by which the credit values will be distributed within
the subject development.
      (2)   It is the responsibility of the developer to request allocation of
development impact fee credits through an application for a credit agreement
(which may be part of a development agreement entered into pursuant to §
150.091).
      (3)   If a building permit is issued or a water/sewer connection is
purchased, and a development impact fee is paid prior to execution of a credit
agreement for the subject development, no credits may be allocated
retroactively to that permit or connection. Credits may be allocated to any
remaining permits for the subject development in accordance with this
subchapter.
      (4)   If the entity that provides an eligible capital facility sells or
relinquishes a development (or portion thereof) that it owns or controls prior
to execution of a credit agreement or development agreement, credits resulting
from the eligible capital facility will only be allocated to the development if
the entity legally assigns such rights and responsibilities to its successor(s)
in interest for the subject development.
      (5)   If multiple entities jointly provide an eligible capital facility,
both entities must enter into a single credit agreement with the City, and any
request for the allocation of credit within the subject development(s) must be
made jointly by the entities that provided the eligible capital facility.
      (6)   Credits may only be reallocated from or within a subject
development with the City’s approval of an amendment to an executed credit
agreement, subject to the following conditions.
         (a)   The entity that executed the original agreement with the City,
or its legal successor in interest, and the entity that currently controls the
subject development are parties to the request for reallocation.
         (b)   The reallocation proposal does not change the value of any
credits already issued for the subject development.
      (7)   A credit agreement may authorize the allocation of credits to a
non-contiguous parcel only if all of the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The entity that executed the original agreement with the City or
its legal successor in interest, the entity that currently controls the subject
development, and the entity that controls the non-contiguous parcel are parties
to the request for reallocation;
         (b)   The reallocation proposal does not change the value of any
credits already issued for the subject development;
         (c)   The non-contiguous parcel is in the same service area as that
served by the eligible capital facility;
         (d)   The non-contiguous parcel receives a necessary public service
from the eligible capital facility;
         (e)   The credit agreement specifically states the value of the
credits to be allocated to each parcel and/or EDU, or establishes a mechanism
for future determination of the credit values; and
         (f)   The credit agreement does not involve the transfer of credits to
or from any property subject to a development agreement.
   (E)   Credit agreement. Credits shall only be issued pursuant to a credit
agreement executed in accordance with section (D) above. The City Manager or
authorized designee is authorized by this subchapter to enter into a credit
agreement with the controlling entity of a subject development, subject to the
following.
      (1)   The developer requesting the credit agreement shall provide all
information requested by the City to allow it to determine the value of the
credit to be applied.
      (2)   An application for a credit agreement shall be submitted to the
City by the developer within one year of the date on which ownership or control
of the capital facility passes to the City.
      (3)   The developer shall submit a draft credit agreement to the City
Manager or authorized designee(s) for review in the form provided to the
applicant by the City. The draft credit agreement shall include, at a minimum,
all of the following information and supporting documentation:
         (a)   A legal description and map depicting the location of the
subject development for which credit is being applied. The map shall depict the
location of the capital facilities that have been or will be provided;
         (b)   An estimate of the total EDUs that will be developed within the
subject development depicted on the map and described in the legal description;
         (c)   A list of the capital facilities, associated physical
attributes, and the related costs as stated in the infrastructure improvements
plan;
         (d)   Documentation showing the date(s) of acceptance by the City, if
the capital facilities have already been provided;
         (e)   The total amount of credit to be applied within the subject
development and the calculations leading to the total amount of credit; and
         (f)   The credit amount to be applied to each EDU within the subject
development for each category of necessary public services.
      (4)   The City’s determination of the credit to be allocated is final.
      (5)   Upon execution of the credit agreement by the City and the
applicant, credits shall be deemed allocated to the subject development.
      (6)   Any amendment to a previously approved credit agreement must be
initiated within two years of the City’s final acceptance of the eligible
capital facility for which the amendment is requested.
      (7)   Any credit agreement approved as part of a development agreement
shall be amended in accordance with the terms of the development agreement and
§
150.091.
   (F)   Issuance of credits. Credits allocated pursuant to section (D) above
may be issued and applied toward the gross impact fees due from a development,
subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   Credits issued for an eligible capital facility may only be applied
to the development impact fee due for the applicable category of necessary
public services, and may not be applied to any fee due for another category of
necessary public services.
      (2)   Credits shall only be issued when the eligible capital facility
from which the credits were derived has been accepted by the City or when
adequate security for the completion of the eligible capital facility has been
provided in accordance with all terms of an executed development agreement.
      (3)   Where credits have been issued pursuant to section (F)(2) above, an
impact fee due at the time a building permit is issued shall be reduced by the
credit amount stated in or calculated from the executed credit agreement. Where
credits have not yet been issued, the gross impact fee shall be paid in full,
and a refund of the credit amount shall be due when the developer demonstrates
compliance with section (F)(2) above in a written request to the City.
      (4)   Credits, once issued, may not be rescinded or reallocated to
another permit or parcel, except that credits may be released for reuse on the
same subject development if a building permit for which the credits were issued
has expired or been voided and is otherwise eligible for a refund under §
150.093(A)(2)(a).
      (5)   Notwithstanding the other provisions of this section, credits
issued prior to January 1, 2012 may only be used for the subject development
for which they were issued. Such credits may be transferred to a new owner of
all or part of the subject development in proportion to the percentage of
ownership in the subject development to be held by the new owner.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-11) (Ord. 14-06, passed 7-7-2014)
§ 150.091 DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS.
   Development agreements containing provisions regarding development impact
fees, development impact fee credits, and/or disbursement of revenues from
development impact fee accounts shall comply with the following.
   (A)   Development agreement required. A development agreement is required to
authorize any of the following:
      (1)   To issue credits prior to the City’s acceptance of an eligible
capital facility;
      (2)   To allocate credits to a parcel that is not contiguous with the
subject development and that does not meet the requirements of §
150.090(D)(7);
      (3)   To reimburse the developer of an eligible capital facility using
funds from development impact fee accounts;
      (4)   To allocate different credit amounts per EDU to different parcels
within a subject development; and
      (5)   For a single-family residential dwelling unit, to allow development
impact fees to be paid at a later time than the issuance of a building permit
as provided in this section.
   (B)   General requirements. All development agreements shall be prepared and
executed in accordance with A.R.S. § 9-500.05 and any applicable requirements
of the City code. Except where specifically modified by this section, all
provisions of §
150.090 shall apply to any credit agreement that is authorized as part of a
development agreement.
   (C)   Early credit issuance. A development agreement may authorize the
issuance of credits prior to acceptance of an eligible capital facility by the
City when the development agreement specifically states the form and value of
the security (such as, bond, letter of credit, and the like) to be provided to
the City prior to issuance of any credits. The City shall determine the
acceptable form and value of the security to be provided.
   (D)   Non-contiguous credit allocation. A development agreement may
authorize the allocation of credits to a non-contiguous parcel only if all of
the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The non-contiguous parcel is in the same service area as that
served by the eligible capital facility;
      (2)   The non-contiguous parcel receives a necessary public service from
the eligible capital facility; and
      (3)   The development agreement specifically states the value of the
credits to be allocated to each parcel and/or EDU, or establishes a mechanism
for future determination of the credit values.
   (E)   Uneven credit allocation. The development agreement must specify how
credits will be allocated amongst different parcels on a per-EDU basis, if the
credits are not to be allocated evenly. If the development agreement is silent
on this topic, all credits will be allocated evenly amongst all parcels on a
per-EDU basis.
   (F)   Use of reimbursements. Funds reimbursed to developers from impact fee
accounts for construction of an eligible capital facility must be utilized in
accordance with applicable law for the use of City funds in construction or
acquisition of capital facilities, including A.R.S. §§ 34-201 et seq.
   (G)   Deferral of fees. A development agreement may provide for the deferral
of payment of development impact fees for a residential development beyond the
issuance of a building permit, provided that a development impact fee may not
be paid later than the 15 days after the issuance of the certificate of
occupancy for that dwelling unit. The development agreement shall provide for
the value of any deferred development impact fees to be supported by
appropriate security, including a surety bond, letter of credit, or cash bond.
   (H)   Waiver of fees. If the City agrees to waive any development impact
fees assessed on development in a development agreement, the City shall
reimburse the appropriate development impact fee account for the amount that
was waived.
   (I)   No obligation. Nothing in this section obligates the City to enter
into any development agreement or to authorize any type of credit agreement
permitted by this section.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-12) (Ord. 14-06, passed 7-7-2014)
§ 150.092 APPEALS.
   A development impact fee determination by City staff may be appealed in
accordance with the following procedures.
   (A)   Limited scope. An appeal shall be limited to disputes regarding the
calculation of the development impact fees for a specific development and/or
permit and calculation of EDUs for the development.
   (B)   Form of appeal. An appeal shall be initiated on such written form as
the City may prescribe, and submitted to the Director of the Growth Management
Department.
   (C)   Department action. The Growth Management Department Director shall act
upon the appeal within 30 calendar days of the filing of the appeal with the
Growth Management Department, and the applicant shall be notified of the
Director’s decision in writing.
   (D)   Appeal to Manager. The applicant may further appeal the decision of
the Growth Management Department Director to the City Manager or authorized
designee, who shall be in a more senior position than the Growth Management
Department Director, within 14 calendar days of the decision.
   (E)   Action by Manager. The City Manager or authorized designee shall act
upon the appeal within 14 calendar days of receipt of the appeal, and the
applicant shall be notified of the City Manager or authorized designee’s
decision in writing.
   (F)   Final decision. The City Manager or authorized designee’s decision
regarding the appeal is final.
   (G)   Fees during pendency. Building permits may be issued during the
pendency of an appeal if the applicant pays the full impact fee calculated by
the City at the time the appeal is filed or provides the City with financial
assurances in the form acceptable to the City Manager or authorized designee
equal to the full amount of the impact fee. Upon final disposition of an
appeal, the fee shall be adjusted in accordance with the decision rendered, and
a refund paid if warranted. If the appeal is denied by the City Manager or
authorized designee, and the applicant has provided the City with financial
assurances as set forth in section (B) above, the applicant shall deliver the
full amount of the impact fee to the City within ten days of the City Manager’s
or designee’s final decision on the appeal. If the applicant fails to deliver
the full amount of the impact fees when required by this section (G), the City
may draw upon such financial assurance instrument(s) as necessary to recover
the full amount of the impact fees due from the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-13) (Ord. 14-06, passed 7-7-2014)
§ 150.093 REFUNDS OF DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES.
   (A)   Refunds. A refund (or partial refund) will be paid to any current
owner of property within the City who submits a written request to the City and
demonstrates that:
      (1)   The permit(s) that triggered the collection of the development
impact fee have expired or been voided prior to the commencement of the
development for which the permits were issued and the development impact fees
collected have not been expended, encumbered, or pledged for the repayment of
financing or debt; or
      (2)   The owner of the subject real property or its predecessor in
interest paid a development impact fee for the applicable capital facility on
or after August 1, 2014, and one of the following conditions exists:
         (a)   The capital facility designed to serve the subject real property
has been constructed, has the capacity to serve the subject real property and
any development for which there is reserved capacity, and the service which was
to be provided by that capital facility has not been provided to the subject
real property from that capital facility or from any other infrastructure;
         (b)   After collecting the fee to construct a capital facility, the
City fails to complete construction of the capital facility within the time
period identified in the infrastructure improvements plan, as it may be
amended, and the corresponding service is otherwise unavailable to the subject
real property from that capital facility or any other infrastructure;
         (c)   For a category of necessary public services other than water or
wastewater facilities, any part of a development impact fee is not spent within
ten years of the City’s receipt of the development impact fee;
         (d)   Any part of a development impact fee for water or wastewater
facilities is not spent within 15 years of the City’s receipt of the
development impact fee; or
         (e)   The development impact fee was calculated and collected for the
construction cost to provide all or a portion of a specific capital facility
serving the subject real property and the actual construction costs for the
capital facility are less than the construction costs projected in the
infrastructure improvements plan by a factor of 10% or more. In such event, the
current owner of the subject real property shall, upon request as set forth in
this section (A), be entitled to a refund for the difference between the
amounts of the development impact fee charged for and attributable to such
construction cost and the amount the development impact fee would have been
calculated to be if the actual construction cost had been included in the fee
report. The refund contemplated by this section shall relate only to the costs
specific to the construction of the applicable capital facility and shall not
include any related design, administrative, or other costs not directly
incurred for construction of the capital facility that are included in the
development impact fee as permitted by A.R.S. § 9-463.05.
   (B)   Earned interest. A refund of a development impact fee shall include
any interest actually earned on the refunded portion of the development impact
fee by the City from the date of collection to the date of refund. All refunds
shall be made to the record owner of the property at the time the refund is
paid.
   (C)   Refund to government. If a development impact fee was paid by a
governmental entity, any refund shall be paid to that governmental entity.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-14) (Ord. 14-06, passed 7-7-2014)
§ 150.094 OVERSIGHT OF DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE PROGRAM.
   (A)   Annual report. Within 90 days of the end of each fiscal year, the City
shall file with the City Clerk an unaudited annual report accounting for the
collection and use of the fees for each service area and shall post the report
on its website in accordance with A.R.S. § 9-463.05(N) and (O), as amended.
   (B)   Biennial audit. In addition to the annual report described in section
(A) above, the City shall provide for a biennial, certified audit of the City’s
land use assumptions, infrastructure improvements plan, and development impact
fees.
      (1)   An audit pursuant to this section (B) shall be conducted by one or
more qualified professionals who are not employees or officials of the City and
who did not prepare the infrastructure improvements plan.
      (2)   The audit shall review the collection and expenditures of
development fees for each project in the plan and provide written comments
describing the amount of development impact fees assessed, collected, and spent
on capital facilities.
      (3)   The audit shall describe the level of service in each service area,
and evaluate any inequities in implementing the infrastructure improvements
plan or imposing the development impact fee.
      (4)   The City shall post the findings of the audit on the City’s website
and shall conduct a public hearing on the audit within 60 days of the release
of the audit to the public.
      (5)   For purposes of this section, a CERTIFIED AUDIT shall mean any
audit authenticated by one or more of the qualified professionals conducting
the audit pursuant to section (B)(1) above.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-15) (Ord. 14-06, passed 7-7-2014)
§ 150.095 DEVELOPMENT FEE SCHEDULES.
   (A)   Fire protection development fee (baseline development fee). All new
residential and non-residential development within the City shall be subject to
the payment of a fire protection development fee payable at the time of
building permit issuance by the City, pursuant to the terms and condition of
this subchapter and in the amount as set forth in this subchapter. The baseline
fire protection development fee shall be as follows.
 
Residential Development Per Dwelling Unit
Single-family detached  $751
All other housing types $438
 
Non-Residential Development Per 1,000 Square Feet of Floor Area
Commercial                  $1,284
Office/institutional        $2,132
Industrial/flex             $587
 
   (B)   Library facilities development fee (baseline development fee). All new
residential and non-residential development within the City shall be subject to
the payment of a library facilities development fee payable at the time of
building permit issuance by the City, pursuant to the terms and condition of
this subchapter and in the amount as set forth in this subchapter. The baseline
library facilities development fee shall be as follows.
 
Residential Development Per Dwelling Unit
Single-family detached  $296
All other housing types $172
 
Non-Residential Development Per 1,000 Square Feet of Floor Area
Commercial                  $109
Office/institutional        $181
Industrial/flex             $50
 
   (C)   Parks and recreational facilities development fee (baseline
development fee). All new residential and non-residential development within
the City shall be subject to the payment of a parks and recreational facilities
development fee payable at the time of building permit issuance by the City,
pursuant to the terms and condition of this subchapter and in the amount as set
forth in this subchapter. The baseline parks and recreational facilities
development fee shall be as follows.
 
Residential Development Per Dwelling Unit
Single-family detached  $839
All other housing types $489
 
Non-Residential Development Per 1,000 Square Feet of Floor Area
Commercial                  $302
Office/institutional        $501
Industrial/flex             $138
 
   (D)   Police facilities development fee (baseline development fee). All new
residential and non-residential development within the City shall be subject to
the payment of a police facilities development fee payable at the time of
building permit issuance by the City, pursuant to the terms and condition of
this subchapter and in the amount as set forth in this subchapter. The baseline
police facilities development fee shall be as follows.
 
Residential Development Per Dwelling Unit
Single-family detached  $734
All other housing types $428
 
Non-Residential Development Per 1,000 Square Feet of Floor Area
Commercial                  $2,252
Office/institutional        $881
Industrial/flex             $284
 
   (E)   Wastewater facilities development fee. All new residential and non-
residential development within the City shall be subject to the payment of a
wastewater facilities development fee payable at the time of building permit
issuance by the City, pursuant to the terms and condition of this subchapter
and in the amount as follows.
 
All Development (Inches) Per Meter
0.75                     $1,693
1.00                     $2,828
1.50                     $5,639
2.00                     $9,026
3.00                     $18,068
 
   (F)   Street facilities development fee (baseline development fee). All new
residential and non-residential development within the City shall be subject to
the payment of a street facilities development fee payable at the time of
building permit issuance by the City, pursuant to the terms and condition of
this subchapter and in the amount as set forth in this subchapter. The baseline
street facilities development fee shall be as follows.
 
Residential Development Per Dwelling Unit
Single-family detached  $2,067
All other housing types $1,331
 
Non-Residential Development Per 1,000 Square Feet of Floor Area
Commercial                  $3,698
Office/institutional        $1,601
Industrial/flex             $517
 
(Prior Code, § 8-11 Appendix) (Ord. 14-06, passed 7-7-2014)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Criminal penalties.
         (a)   Any person, as defined in§
10.03(B) of this code, who violates any provision of §§
150.020 through
150.032 shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
         (b)   Any person convicted of a Class 1 misdemeanor for violation of
§§
150.020 through
150.032 may be sentenced to the jail for a period not to exceed six months and/
or fined an amount not to exceed $1,000.
         (c)   Each failure to obtain a required permit clearance,
certification, review, approval, or inspections shall constitute a separate
violation of §§
150.020 through
150.032.
      (2)   Civil penalties.
         (a)   Any person, as defined in§
10.03(B) of this code, or enterprise, as defined pursuant to A.R.S. § 13-105,
who violates any provision of §§
150.020 through
150.032 shall be subject to a civil penalty, as an alternative method of
enforcing §§
150.020 through
150.032.
         (b)   No person shall be subject to a criminal penalty for a violation
enforced under the civil penalty provisions of this section.
         (c)   The amount of the civil penalty for the violation of §§
150.020 through
150.032 shall be determined by the City Magistrate or Hearing Officer, subject,
however, to the direction of the City Council which may, but is not required
to, establish a schedule of such penalties, said penalties shall not exceed the
amount of $2,500 for each offense.
         (d)   Any person alleged to be subject to a civil penalty for a
violation of §§
150.020 through
150.032 shall be entitled to an administrative hearing regarding their
liability, and a review of the administrative decision by the City Council. The
administrative hearing shall be before the City Court, subject to the rules of
procedure for same as adopted by the City Council.
      (3)   Other methods of enforcement. The City Council, the City Attorney,
the Building Official, or any adjacent or neighboring property owner who shall
be especially damaged by the violation of any provision of §§
150.020 through
150.032, may initiate other remedies provided by law, for example, an
injunction, writ of mandamus, abatement, or any other appropriate action,
proceeding, or proceedings to prevent, abate, or remove such violation of §§
150.020 through
150.032.
      (4)   Separate offenses. Any person, firm, or corporation violating §§
150.020 through
150.032 shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense of each and every day
during which a violation of the provisions of §§
150.020 through
150.032 is committed, continued, or permitted.
(Prior Code, § 8-14-12)
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of
the code adopted in §
150.045 is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-2)
   (D)   The penalty for a violation of §
150.047 shall be the penalty set forth in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-2)
   (E)   Any person or entity who violates any provision of §
150.064 is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-5) (Ord. 09-01, passed 1-12-2009)
CHAPTER 151: OUTDOOR LIGHTING
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Purpose
   
151.002   Conformance with applicable codes
   
151.003   Approved material and methods of installation
   
151.004   Definitions
Requirements
   
151.015   Shielding
   
151.016   Filtration
   
151.017   Requirements for shielding and filtering
Prohibitions
   
151.030   Searchlights
   
151.031   Recreational facility
   
151.032   Outdoor building illumination
   
151.033   Mercury vapor
Permanent Exemptions
   
151.045   Nonconforming exemptions
   
151.046   Fossil fuel light
   
151.047   Federal and state facilities
   
151.048   Special exemptions
Procedures for Compliance
   
151.060   Applications
   
151.061   Contents of applications
   
151.062   Issuance of permit
   
151.063   Amendment to permit
Temporary Exemptions
   
151.075   Request
   
151.076   Appeal for temporary exemption
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is intended to restrict the permitted use of outdoor artificial
illuminating devices emitting undesirable rays into the night sky which have a
detrimental effect on astronomical observations.
(Prior Code, § 19-1-1)
§ 151.002 CONFORMANCE WITH APPLICABLE CODES.
   (A)   All outdoor artificial illuminating devices shall be installed in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter and any building ordinances
which may hereafter be enacted, as applicable.
   (B)   Where any provisions of any of the state’s statutes, any of the
federal laws, or any other law of this code conflicts with the requirements of
this chapter of the code, the most restrictive provision shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 19-1-2)
§ 151.003 APPROVED MATERIAL AND METHODS OF INSTALLATION.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter are not intended to prevent the use of
any material or method of installation not specifically prescribed by this
chapter, provided any such alternate has been approved.
   (B)   The Building Inspector may approve any such alternate, provided that
he or she finds that the proposed design, material, or methods:
      (1)   Provides approximate equivalence to those specific requirements of
this chapter; or
      (2)   Is otherwise satisfactory and complies with the intent of the
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 19-1-3)
§ 151.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INDIVIDUAL. Any private individual, tenant, lessee, owner, or any commercial
entity, including, but not limited to, companies, partnerships, joint ventures,
or corporations.
   INSTALLED. The initial installation of outdoor light fixtures defined
herein, following the effective date of this chapter, but shall not apply to
those outdoor light fixtures installed prior to such date.
   OUTDOOR LIGHTING FIXTURES. Outdoor artificial illuminating devices, outdoor
fixtures, lamps, and other devices, permanent or portable, used for
illumination or advertisement. Such devices shall include, but are not limited
to, search, spot, or flood lights for:
      (1)   Buildings and structures;
      (2)   Recreational areas;
      (3)   Parking lot lighting;
      (4)   Landscape lighting;
      (5)   Billboards and other signs (advertising or other); and
      (6)   Street lighting.
(Prior Code, § 19-2)
REQUIREMENTS
§ 151.015 SHIELDING.
   All exterior illuminating devices, except those exempt from this chapter and
those regulated by §
151.032 shall be fully or partially shielded as required in §
151.017.
   (A)   FULLY SHIELDED shall mean that those fixtures shall be shielded in
such a manner that light rays emitted by the fixture, either directly from the
lamp or indirectly from the fixture, are projected below a horizontal plane
running through the lowest point on the fixture where light is emitted.
   (B)   PARTIALLY SHIELDED shall mean that hose fixtures shall be shielded in
such a manner that the bottom edge of the shield is below the plane center line
of the light source (lamp), minimizing light above the horizontal.
(Prior Code, § 19-3-1)
§ 151.016 FILTRATION.
   (A)   Those outdoor light fixtures requiring a filter in §
151.017 shall be equipped with a filter whose transmission is less than 5%
total emergent flux at wavelengths less than 3,900 angstroms. Total emergent
flux is defined as that between 3,000 and 7,000 angstrom units.
   (B)   It is recommended that existing mercury vapor fixtures shall be
equipped with a filter whose transmission is less that 10% total emergent flux
at wavelengths less than 4,400 angstroms. Total emergent flux is defined as
that between 3,000 and 7,000 angstrom units, or replaced.
   (C)   Low pressure sodium lamps are the preferred lamp for minimizing
adverse effects on astronomical observations.
(Prior Code, § 19-3-2)
§ 151.017 REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIELDING AND FILTERING.
   The requirements for shielding and filtering light emission from outdoor
light fixtures shall be as set forth in the following table.
Fixture Lamp Type Shielded Filtered
Fixture Lamp Type                    Shielded  Filtered
Fluorescent                          Fully     Yes
Fossil fuel                          None      None
Glass tubes filled with neon, argon, None      None
krypton
High pressure sodium                 Fully     None
Incandescent greater than 150W       Fully     None
Low pressure sodium                  Partially None
Mercury vapor                        Fully (7) Yes
Metal halide (6)                     Fully     Yes
Quartz (3)                           Fully     None
Other sources                        As approved by the Building Inspector
Footnotes:
1. This is the preferred light source to minimize undesirable light into
the night sky affecting astronomical observations.
2. Warm white and natural lamps are preferred to minimize detrimental
effects.
3. For the purposes of this chapter, quartz lamps shall not be considered
an incandescent light source.
4. Most glass, acrylic, or translucent enclosures satisfy these filter
requirements.
5. Outdoor advertising signs of the type constructed of translucent
materials and wholly illuminated from within do not require shielding.
6. Metal halide display lighting shall not be used for security lighting
after 11:00 p.m. (or after closing hours if before 11:00 p.m.) unless
fully shielded. Metal halide lamps shall be in enclosed luminaries.
7. Recommended for existing fixtures. The installation of mercury vapor
fixtures in prohibited effective 90 days after the date of adoption of
this chapter.
 
(Prior Code, § 19-3-3)
PROHIBITIONS
§ 151.030 SEARCHLIGHTS.
   The operation of searchlights for advertising purposes is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 19-4-1) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.031 RECREATIONAL FACILITY.
   No outdoor recreational facility, public or private, shall be illuminated by
nonconforming means after 11:00 p.m., except to conclude a specific
recreational or sporting event or any other activity conducted at a ball park,
outdoor amphitheater, arena, or similar facility in progress prior to 11:00
p.m.
(Prior Code, § 19-4-2) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.032 OUTDOOR BUILDING ILLUMINATION.
   The unshielded outdoor illumination of any building, landscaping, signing,
or other purpose is prohibited except with incandescent fixtures less than 500
watts.
(Prior Code, § 19-4-3) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.033 MERCURY VAPOR.
   The installation of mercury vapor fixtures is prohibited effective 90 days
after the date of adoption of this chapter by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 19-4-4)
PERMANENT EXEMPTIONS
§ 151.045 NONCONFORMING EXEMPTIONS.
   All outdoor light fixtures existing and fully installed prior to the
effective date of the adoption of this chapter by ordinance may remain
“nonconforming” indefinitely; provided, however, that no change in use,
replacement, structural alteration, or restoration after abandonment of outdoor
light fixtures shall be made unless it thereafter conforms to the provisions of
these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 19-5-1)
§ 151.046 FOSSIL FUEL LIGHT.
   Produced directly or indirectly by the combustion of natural gas or other
utility-type fossil fuels.
(Prior Code, § 19-5-2)
§ 151.047 FEDERAL AND STATE FACILITIES.
   Those facilities and lands owned, operated, or protected by the U.S. Federal
Government or the state are exempted by law from all requirements of this
chapter. Voluntary compliance with the intent of this chapter at those
facilities is encouraged.
(Prior Code, § 19-5-3)
§ 151.048 SPECIAL EXEMPTIONS.
   The Building Inspector may grant a special exemption to the requirements of
§
151.017 only upon a written finding that there are extreme geographic or
geometric conditions warranting the exemption and that there are no conforming
fixtures that would suffice.
(Prior Code, § 19-5-4)
PROCEDURES FOR COMPLIANCE
§ 151.060 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Any individual applying for a building or use permit intending to
install outdoor lighting shall, as a part of said application, submit evidence
that the proposed work will comply with this chapter.
   (B)   All other individuals intending to install outdoor lighting fixtures
shall submit an application to the Building Inspector providing evidence that
the proposed work will comply with this chapter.
   (C)   Utility companies entering into a duly approved contract with the City
in which they agree to comply with the provisions of these regulations, shall
be exempt from applying for and obtaining a permit for the installation of
outdoor light fixtures, including residential security lighting.
(Prior Code, § 19-6-1)
§ 151.061 CONTENTS OF APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   The submission shall contain but shall not necessarily be limited to
the following, all or part of which may be part of or in addition to the
information required elsewhere in the building codes of the City upon
application for the required permit:
      (1)   Plans indicating the location on the premises, and the type of
illuminating devices, fixtures, lamps, supports, other devices, and the like;
and
      (2)   Description of the illuminating devices, fixtures, lamps, supports,
and other devices, and the like. This description may include, but is not
limited to, manufactures catalog cuts and drawings (including sections where
required).
   (B)   The above required plans and descriptions shall be sufficiently
complete to enable the Building Inspector to readily determine whether
compliance with the requirements of this chapter will be secured. If such plans
and descriptions cannot enable this ready determination, by reason of the
nature or configuration of the devices, fixtures, or lamps proposed, the
applicant shall submit evidence of compliance by certified test reports as
performed by a recognized testing lab.
(Prior Code, § 19-6-2)
§ 151.062 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Upon compliance with the requirements of this chapter, the Building
Inspector shall issue a permit for installation of the outdoor lighting
fixtures, to be installed as in the approved application.
   (B)   In the event the application is part of the building permit
application under the building code regulations, the issuance of the building
permit will be made if the applicant is in compliance with this chapter as well
as the other requirements for issuance pursuant to the building codes of the
City.
   (C)   Appeal procedures of the building codes shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 19-6-3)
§ 151.063 AMENDMENT TO PERMIT.
   Should the applicant desire to substitute outdoor light fixtures or lamps
after a permit has been issued, the applicant must submit all changes to the
Building Inspector for approval, with adequate information to assure compliance
with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 19-6-4)
TEMPORARY EXEMPTIONS
§ 151.075 REQUEST.
   (A)   Any individual, as defined herein, may submit a written request on a
form prepared by the City to the Building Inspector for a temporary exemption
to the requirements of this chapter, such exemption to be valid for 30 days,
renewable at the discretion of the City Manager.
   (B)   The request for temporary exemption shall contain minimally the
following listed information:
      (1)   Specific exemptions requested;
      (2)   Type and use of exterior light involved;
      (3)   Duration of time for requested exemption;
      (4)   Type of lamp and calculated lumens;
      (5)   Total wattage of lamp or lamps;
      (6)   Proposed location of exterior light;
      (7)   Previous temporary exemptions, if any; and
      (8)   Physical size of exterior light and type of shielding provided.
   (C)   In addition to the above data, the Building Inspector may request any
additional information which would enable him or her to make a reasonable
evaluation of the request for temporary exemption.
(Prior Code, § 19-7-1)
§ 151.076 APPEAL FOR TEMPORARY EXEMPTION.
   (A)   The Building Inspector, within five days from the date of the properly
completed request for temporary exemption, shall approve or reject in writing
the request.
   (B)   If rejected, the individual making the request shall have the right of
appeal to the City Manager or the Board of Appeals for review pursuant to the
procedures applicable to any other appeal of a decision of the Building
Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 19-7-2)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 19-8)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD CONTROL
Section
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Prohibition of new construction or development in floodplains and
issuance of special building permit
   
152.03   Construction to minimize flood damage
   
152.04   New subdivisions and developments
   
152.05   Water and sanitary sewer systems
   
152.06   Review of all building permits
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AREA OF JURISDICTION. All lands within the corporate limits of the City.
   DWELLING UNIT. A place of residence and may be located in a single or
multiple unit building, or manufactured home.
   FLOOD or FLOOD WATERS. A temporary overflow of water on lands not normally
covered by water.
      (1)   50-YEAR FLOOD. A flood that has 2% chance of occurring.
      (2)   100-YEAR FLOOD. A flood that has a 1% chance of occurring.
   FLOODPLAIN. The relatively flat areas or low lands adjoining the channel of
a watercourse, or areas where drainage is or may be restricted by human-made
structures which have been or may be covered partially or wholly by floodwater,
but shall compose an area not less than that area confined by the 50-year flood
and shall not exceed that area confined by the 100-year flood.
   FLOODPLAIN COMMISSION. The Mayor and Common Council of the City of Coolidge.
   FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS. The codes, ordinances, and other regulations
relating to the use of land and construction within the channel and floodplain
areas, including zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes,
housing codes, setback requirements, open area regulations, and similar methods
of control affecting the use and development of the areas.
   PERSON. Any individual or his or her agent, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, or agent of the aforementioned groups, or the state or any agency
or political subdivision thereof.
   WATERCOURSE. Any lake, river, creek, stream, wash, arroyo, channel, or other
body of water having banks and bed through which waters flow at least
periodically. The term may include specifically designated areas in which
substantial flood damage may occur.
(Prior Code, § 18-1-1) (Ord. 98-01, passed 1-12-1998)
§ 152.02 PROHIBITION OF NEW CONSTRUCTION OR DEVELOPMENT IN FLOODPLAINS AND
ISSUANCE OF SPECIAL BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   All subdivisions of land, construction of dwelling units, or
commercial or industrial construction or future development is prohibited
within an area delineated as a floodplain, unless a special building permit is
granted by the Floodplain Commission. A special building permit shall only be
issued if the Floodplain Commission finds that the construction or development
is not a danger to persons or property.
   (B)   The minimum floor elevation for all new construction within a
delineated floodplain shall be above the highest-water line of the 100-year
floodplain as determined by the City, the state’s Water Commission, or the
Administrator of the Federal Insurance Administration. In all circumstances,
the minimum floor elevation shall not be less than one foot above the highest
point of the high water line.
(Prior Code, § 18-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.03 CONSTRUCTION TO MINIMIZE FLOOD DAMAGE.
   All new construction or substantial improvements to existing structures
within a delineated floodplain, including pre-fabricated and manufactured
homes, must be designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or other lateral movement of the structure and shall use construction
material and utility equipment that are resistant to flood damage and shall use
construction methods and practices that will minimize flood damage. The
issuance of a special building permit for such construction shall be
conditioned upon the applicant consenting to construct according to the
provisions set forth in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 18-1-3)
§ 152.04 NEW SUBDIVISIONS AND DEVELOPMENTS.
   The Building Official and City Engineer shall review all subdivision
proposals and other proposed new developments to ensure that all such proposals
are consistent with the need to minimize flood damage and that all public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems are
located, elevated, and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage and
adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
(Prior Code, § 18-1-4)
§ 152.05 WATER AND SANITARY SEWER SYSTEMS.
   The City Engineer shall require any new or replacement water systems and
sanitary sewage systems to be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration or
flood waters into the system and discharges from the systems into flood waters
and require on-site waste disposal systems to be located so as to avoid
impairment of them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Prior Code, § 18-1-5)
§ 152.06 REVIEW OF ALL BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   The Building Official shall review all building permit applications
for new construction or substantial improvements to determine whether the
proposed site will be reasonably safe from flooding and if the site will retain
storm water. If it is determined that there is a potential flood hazard, the
construction shall conform to the provisions of this chapter to minimize flood
damage.
   (B)   As it concerns storm water, the following provisions shall be
applicable before a building permit is issued for construction in a
subdivision, a manufactured home subdivision, or manufactured home park created
after the effective date of this chapter or for construction on any
commercially or industrially zoned parcel of land consisting of more than
25,000 square feet in area.
      (1)   All water, except that in excess of a 50-year storm of a 24-hour
duration (approximately three inches), which falls within a subdivision, or
manufactured home park created after the effective date of this chapter, or on
any commercially or industrially zoned parcel of land consisting of more than
25,000 square feet in area must be retained within said parcels of real
property unless prior approval has been given by the Floodplain Commission for
alternate means of water retention and the method of collection and retention
has been approved by the City Engineer. Where prior drainage easements or
covenants exist for taking of off-site water, retention of the same shall also
be provided.
      (2)   The design capacity of all retention basins will be determined by
the peak runoff from the affected drainage area(s) resulting from the 100-year
frequency storm. Drywells may be used in lieu of retention basins for smaller
drainage areas if the design is approved by the City Engineer.
      (3)   The design of all suitable fencing or other security measures to
minimize exposure to local residents to flowing or standing storm water in the
basins shall be approved by the Building Official and City Engineer, and in no
case shall the security fencing exceed eight feet in height.
(Prior Code, § 18-1-6) (Ord. 98-01, passed 1-12-1998)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
   
153.01   Zoning code
   
153.02   Zoning map
§ 153.01 ZONING CODE.
   The certain document known as “City of Coolidge, Zoning Code February 2009”
is hereby adopted as the zoning code and made part of this chapter the same as
though said code was specifically set forth in full herein; and at least three
copies of said code shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk and kept
available for public use and inspection, pursuant to Resolution No. 09-07.
(Prior Code, § 16-1)
§ 153.02 ZONING MAP.
   The certain document known as “City of Coolidge, Zoning Map” is hereby
adopted as the zoning map for the City and made a part of this chapter the same
as though said map was specifically set forth in full herein; and at least
three copies of said map shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk and
kept available for public use and inspection, pursuant to Ordinance No. 09-07.
(Prior Code, § 16-2)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Arizona Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ARIZONA REVISED STATUTES
 
A.R.S. Reference Code Section
A.R.S. Reference                 Code Section
1-211 to 1-215                   10.03
Title 8                          131.99
9-235                            30.004
Title 9, Chapter 4, Article 6    150.080
9-411 through 9-419              32.25
                                 35.16,
                                 150.080,
9-463.05                         150.081,
                                 150.083,
                                 150.085,
                                 150.093
9-463.05(K)                      150.081
9-463.05(N)                      150.094
9-463.05(O)                      150.094
9-463.05(R)                      150.081
9-463.05(S)                      150.081,
                                 150.083
9-463.05(T)(4)                   150.089
9-463.05(T)(7)                   150.080
9-463.05(T)(10)                  150.080
9-499(E)                         91.11
9-499(F)                         91.11
9-499(G)                         91.11
9-499(H)                         91.11
                                 35.18,
9-500.05                         150.080,
                                 150.091
9-506(I)                         112.05
9-506(J)                         112.05
Title 9, Chapter 5, Article 8    112.05
9-584                            112.05
Title 9, Chapter 13              112.01,
                                 112.04
9-1401                           112.02
9-1432                           112.12
9-1445                           112.17
9-1451                           112.17
12-114.01                        34.41
12-116                           34.41
12-116.01                        34.41
12-116.02                        34.41
Title 13, Chapter 31             130.21
13-105                           150.999
13-1502                          130.99
13-3401                          93.02
13-4072                          11.04
Title 16, Chapter 6              30.095
16-954(C)                        34.41
Title 28                         72.01
28-101 et seq.                   70.01
Title 28, Chapter 3, § 28-308.0171.06
Title 28, Chapter 6, § 28-873.0171.06
28-1094                          70.40
28-1095                          70.40
28-1100                          70.40
28-1381(I)                       34.60
28-1381(K)                       34.60
28-1382(D)                       34.60
28-1382(E)                       34.60
33-1310                          50.001
34-201 et seq.                   150.091
36-495 et seq.                   51.097
36-601.01                        93.02
36-1601                          92.01
36-2801 et seq.                  93.05
36.2801(12)                      93.02
36-2853                          93.99
36-2854                          93.99
38-260                           30.007
38-501 et seq.                   32.23
38-544                           30.999
38-545                           30.096
Title 41, Chapter 9, Article 8   150.002,
                                 150.003
41-1750                          33.02
42-5001                          93.06
44-1201                          51.008
Title 48, Chapter 4, Article 6   150.086
49-255.02                        51.040
49-701.01(A)                     50.001
49-701.01(B)                     50.001
49-701(13)                       50.001
49-701(19)                       50.001
49-746                           50.001
49-851(A)                        50.001
49-921(5)                        50.001
150.086(A)(1)                    150.080
                                 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section Code Section
Prior Code Section Code Section
1-1                10.01
1-2                10.02
1-3                10.03
1-4-1              10.04
1-4-2              10.05
1-4-3              10.06
1-4-4              10.06
1-5                10.07
1-6                10.08
1-7                10.09
1-8                10.99
1-9-1              10.10
1-9-2              10.11
1-10               10.12
1-11               10.13
2-1-1              30.001
2-1-2              30.002
2-1-3              30.003
2-1-4              30.004
2-1-5              30.005
2-1-6              30.006
2-1-7              30.007
2-2-1              30.020
2-2-2              30.021
2-2-3              30.022
2-2-4              30.023
2-2-5              30.024
2-3-1              30.035
2-3-2              30.036
2-3-3              30.037
2-3-4              30.038
2-3-5              30.039
2-3-6              30.040
2-3-7              30.041
2-4-1              30.055
2-4-2              30.056
2-4-3              30.057
2-4-4              30.058
2-4-5              30.059
2-4-6              30.060
2-4-7              30.061
2-4-8              30.062
2-4-9              30.063
2-5-1              30.075
2-5-2              30.076
2-5-3              30.077
2-5-4              30.078
2-5-5              30.079
2-5-6              30.080
2-5-7              30.081
2-5-8              30.082
2-6-1              30.095
2-6-2              30.096
2-6-3              30.097
2-6-4              30.999
3-1-1              31.01
3-1-2              31.02
3-1-3              31.03
3-1-4              31.04
3-1-5              31.05
3-1-6              31.06
3-2-1              31.20
3-2-2              31.21
3-2-3              31.22
3-2-4              31.23
3-2-5              31.24
3-2-6              31.25
3-2-7              31.26
3-2-8              31.27
4-1-1              32.01
4-1-2              32.02
4-1-3              32.03
4-1-4              32.04
4-1-5              32.05
4-1-6              32.06
4-2-1              32.20
4-2-2              32.21
4-2-3              32.22
4-2-4              32.23
4-2-5              32.24
4-2-6              32.25
4-3-1              32.40
5-1                33.01
5-2-1              33.15
5-2-2              33.16
5-2-3              33.17
5-2-4              33.18
5-2-5              33.19
5-3-1              33.30
5-3-2              33.31
5-3-3              33.32
5-3-4              33.33
5-3-5              33.34
5-3-6              33.35
5-3-7              33.36
5-3-8              33.37
5-3-9              33.38
5-3-10             33.39
5-4-1              33.50
5-4-2              33.51
5-4-3              33.52
5-4-4              33.53
5-4-5              33.54
5-4-6              33.55
5-4-7              33.56
5-4-8              33.57
5-4-9              33.58
5-4-10             33.59
5-4-11             33.59
5-4-12             33.61
5-5                33.03
5-6                33.04
5-7                33.02
6-1                34.01
6-2-1              34.02
6-2-2              34.03
6-3-1              34.15
6-3-2              34.16
6-3-3              34.17
6-3-5              34.18
6-3-6              34.19
6-3-7              34.20
6-3-10             34.21
6-3-11             34.22
6-4-1              34.40
6-4-2              34.41
6-4-3              34.42
6-5-1              34.55
6-5-2              34.56
6-5-3              34.57
6-5-4              34.58
6-5-5              34.59
6-5-6              34.60
6-5-7              34.61
6-5-8              34.62
6-5-9              34.63
6-5-10             34.64
7-1-1              90.01
7-1-2              90.02
7-1-3              90.03
7-1-4              90.04
7-1-5              90.05
7-2-1              90.20
7-2-2              90.21
7-2-3              90.22
7-2-4              90.23
7-2-5              90.24
7-2-6              90.25
7-2-7              90.26
7-2-8              90.27
7-3                90.06
7-4                90.28
7-5                90.07
8-1-2              150.001
8-1-4              150.002
8-1-5              150.003
8-1-6              150.004
8-5-1              150.045
8-5-2              150.999
8-6                150.046
8-8-1              150.060
8-8-2              150.061
8-8-3              150.062
8-8-4              150.063
8-8-5              150.064,
                   150.999
8-8-6              150.065
8-9                150.005
8-10               150.006
8-11-1             150.080
8-11-2             150.081
8-11-3             150.082
8-11-4             150.083
8-11-5             150.084
8-11-6             150.085
8-11-7             150.086
8-11-8             150.087
8-11-9             150.088
8-11-10            150.089
8-11-11            150.090
8-11-12            150.091
8-11-13            150.092
8-11-14            150.093
8-11-15            150.094
8-11 Appendix      150.095
8-12-1             150.047
8-12-2             150.999
8-13               150.066
8-14-1             150.020
8-14-2             150.021
8-14-5             150.024
8-14-7             150.026
8-14-8             150.027
8-14-9             150.028
8-14-10            150.029
8-14-11            150.030
8-14-12            150.999
8-14-13            150.031
8-14-14            150.032
9-1                35.01
9-2-1              110.01
9-2-2              110.02
9-2-3              110.03
9-2-4              110.04
9-2-5              110.05
9-2-6              110.06
9-2-7              110.07
9-2-8              110.08
9-2-9              110.09
9-2-10             110.10
9-3-1              110.25
9-3-2              110.26
9-3-3              110.27
9-3-4              110.28
9-4-1              113.01
9-4-2              113.02
9-4-3              113.03
9-4-4              113.04
9-4-5              113.05
9-4-6              113.06
9-4-7              113.07,
                   113.99
9-4-8              113.08
9-4-9              113.09
9-4-10             113.10
9-4-11             113.11
9-4-12             113.12
9-4-13             113.13
9-4-14             113.14
9-4-15             113.15
9-4-16             113.16
9-4-17             113.17
9-4-18             113.18
9-4-19             113.19
9-4-20             113.20
9-4-21             113.99
10-5-1             91.01
10-5-2             91.02
10-5-3             91.03
10-5-4             91.04
10-5-5             91.05
10-5-6             91.06
10-5-7             91.07
10-5-8             91.08
10-5-9             91.09
10-5-10            91.10
10-5-11            91.11
10-5-12            91.12
10-6               91.13
10-7               91.14
10-8-1             35.02
10-8-2             35.02
10-8-2             35.99
11-1-1             130.01
11-1-2             130.02
11-1-3             130.03
11-1-4             130.04
11-1-5             130.05
11-1-6             130.06
11-1-7             130.07
11-1-8             130.08
11-1-9             130.09
                   133.01 –
11-1-10            133.04,
                   133.99
11-1-11            130.10
11-1-12            130.11
11-1-13            130.12
11-1-14            130.13
11-1-15            130.14
11-1-16            130.15
11-1-17            130.16
11-1-18            130.17
11-1-19            130.18
11-1-20            130.19
11-1-21            130.20,
                   130.99
11-1-22            130.21,
                   130.99
11-1-23            130.22,
                   130.99
11-1-24            130.23,
                   130.99
11-1-25            130.24,
                   130.99
11-1-26            130.25,
                   130.99
                   92.01 –
11-1-27            92.06,
                   92.99
11-2-1             131.01
11-2-2             131.02,
                   131.99
11-2-3             131.03,
                   131.99
11-2-4             131.04
11-2-5             131.05
11-2-6             131.06
11-2-7             131.07
11-2-8             131.08,
                   131.99
11-3-1             132.01,
                   132.99
11-3-2             132.02,
                   132.99
12-1               51.001
12-2               51.002
12-3-1             51.003
12-3-2             51.004
12-3-3             51.005
12-4-1             51.006
12-4-2             51.007
12-5               51.008
12-6-1             51.009
12-6-2             51.010
12-7-1             51.025
12-7-2             51.026
12-7-3             51.027
12-7-4             51.028
12-8-1             51.040,
                   51.041
12-8-2             51.042 –
                   51.049
12-8-3             51.050
12-8-4             51.065 –
                   51.083
12-8-5             51.095 –
                   51.104
                   51.115 –
12-8-6             51.121,
                   51.999
14-1-1             70.01
14-1-2             70.02
14-1-3             70.99
14-2-1             70.15
14-2-2             70.16
14-2-3             70.17
14-2-4             70.18
14-2-5             70.19
14-2-6             70.20
14-2-7             70.21
14-2-8             70.22
14-2-9             70.23
14-2-10            70.24
14-2-11            70.25
14-3-1             71.01
14-3-2             71.02
14-3-3             71.03
14-3-4             71.04
14-3-5             71.05
14-3-6             71.99
14-3-7             71.06
14-4-1             91.25
14-4-2             91.26
14-4-3             91.27
14-4-4             91.28
14-5-1             70.40
14-5-2             70.41
14-5-3             70.99
14-6-1             72.01
14-6-2             72.02
14-6-3             72.03
14-6-4             72.04
14-6-5             72.05
14-6-6             72.06
14-6-7             72.07
15-1-1             111.01
15-1-2             111.02
15-1-3             111.03
15-2-1             111.15
15-2-2             111.16
16-1               153.01
16-2               153.02
17-1-1             132.15
17-1-2             132.16
17-1-3             132.17
18-1-1             152.01
18-1-2             152.02
18-1-3             152.03
18-1-4             152.04
18-1-5             152.05
18-1-6             152.06
19-1-1             151.001
19-1-2             151.002
19-1-3             151.003
19-2               151.004
19-3-1             151.015
19-3-2             151.016
19-3-3             151.017
19-4-1             151.030
19-4-2             151.031
19-4-3             151.032
19-4-4             151.033
19-5-1             151.045
19-5-2             151.046
19-5-3             151.047
19-5-4             151.048
19-6-1             151.060
19-6-2             151.061
19-6-3             151.062
19-6-4             151.063
19-7-1             151.075
19-7-2             151.076
19-8               151.999
20-1               11.01
20-2               11.02
20-3               11.03
20-4               11.04
20-5               11.05
20-6               11.06
21-1-1             50.001
21-1-2             50.002
21-1-3             50.003
21-1-4             50.004
21-2-1             50.015
21-2-2             50.016
21-2-3             50.017
21-2-4             50.018
21-2-5             50.019
21-2-6             50.020
21-3-1             50.035
21-3-2             50.036
21-3-3             50.037
21-3-4             50.038
21-4-1             50.050
21-4-2             50.051
21-4-3             50.052
21-4-4             50.053
21-4-5             50.054
21-4-6             50.055
21-5-1             50.070,
                   50.999
21-5-2             50.071
21 Exhibit A       50.085,
                   50.086
22-1               36.01
22-2               36.02
22-3               36.03
22-4               36.04
22-5               36.05
22-6               36.06
22-7               36.07
22-8               36.08
22-9               36.09
22-10              36.10
22-11              36.11
22-12              36.12
22-13              36.13
22-14              36.14
22-15-1            36.30
22-15-2            36.31
22-15-3            36.32
22-15-4            36.33
22-15-5            36.34
22-15-6            36.35
22-15-7            36.36
22-15-8            36.37
22-16-1            36.50
22-16-2            36.51
22-16-3            36.52
22-16-4            36.53
22-16-5            36.54
22-16-6            36.55
22-17              36.15
23-1               35.15
23-2               35.16
23-3               35.17
23-4               35.18
23-5               35.19
23-6               35.20
24-1-1             112.01
24-1-2             112.02
24-1-3             112.03,
                   112.99
24-1-4             112.04
24-1-5             112.05
24-1-6             112.06
24-1-7             112.07
24-1-8             112.08
24-1-9             112.09
24-1-10            112.10
24-1-11            112.11
24-1-12            112.12
24-1-13            112.13
24-1-14            112.14
24-1-15            112.15
24-1-16            112.16
24-1-17            112.17
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
16-01    1-25-2016   50.085,
                     50.086
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
98-01    1-12-1998   152.01,
                     152.06
                     30.020,
                     91.10,
98-04    4-13-1998   133.01-
                     133.04,
                     133.99
99-02    3-22-1999   32.02,
                     32.05
99-08    6-28-1999   31.01
99-07    8-9-1999    130.24,
                     130.99
99-15    9-13-1999   110.07
99-19    12-13-1999  32.01,
                     32.40
01-04    2-12-2001   32.40
01-15    11-13-2001  70.25
02-04    6-10-2002   150.045 –
                     150.047
02-16    11-12-2002  150.046
03-02    1-27-2003   32.40
03-05    4-28-2003   31.01,
                     31.25
03-10    8-18-2003   90.26
                     150.020,
                     150.021,
03-13    11-10-2003  150.024,
                     150.026 –
                     150.032
04-03    1-26-2004   34.15 –
                     34.22
04-11    9-13-2004   110.03,
                     110.07
05-02    4-11-2005   110.03
06-03    1-23-2006   130.25,
                     130.99
                     131.01 –
07-05    2-12-2007   131.08,
                     131.99
08-04    3-24-2008   150.060
08-11    6-23-2008   130.10
09-01    1-12-2009   150.999
09-06    1-26-2009   31.20
                     132.01,
09-15    7-13-2009   132.02,
                     132.99
10-13    7-26-2010   90.26
10-16    11-22-2010  130.05
                     51.002 –
11-12    7-11-2011   51.010,
                     51.025-
                     51.028
11-13    7-11-2011   71.03
                     70.16,
11-14    10-10-2011  72.01-
                     72.07
12-04    6-11-2012   34.21,
                     34.22
                     133.01 –
13-02    1-28-2013   133.04,
                     133.99
                     51.040 –
                     51.050,
                     51.065-
                     51.083,
13-05    3-25-2013   51.095-
                     51.104,
                     51.115-
                     51.121,
                     51.999
13-06    4-22-2013   32.02
13-12    10-14-2013  132.01
13-13    10-14-2013  30.039,
                     30.041
13-14    10-14-2013  30.035
13-16    10-14-2013  70.25
14-06    7-7-2014    150.080 –
                     150.095
14-09    10-27-2014  30.001 –
                     30.007
14-10    11-10-2014  110.03
08-04    3-24-2015   150.061
15-17    12-14-2015  36.01 –
                     36.15
                     50.001 –
                     50.004,
                     50.015-
                     50.020,
                     50.035-
                     50.038,
15-18    12-14-2015  50.050-
                     50.055,
                     50.070,
                     50.071,
                     50.085,
                     50.086,
                     50.999
                     30.095 –
16-12    12-12-2016  30.097,
                     30.999
16-13    12-12-2016  30.035
18-01    3-12-2018   150.065
                     112.01 –
19-26    12-9-2019   112.17,
                     112.99
                     93.01 –
21-03    2-8-2021    93.07,
                     93.99
21-06    4-26-2021   130.19
21-15    8-9-2021    71.07
                     34.01 –
                     34.04,
                     34.15 –
21-16    8-23-2021   34.23,
                     34.40 –
                     34.42,
                     34.55 –
                     34.64
21-21    11-8-2021   51.002,
                     51.041
                     150.022,
23-13    12-11-2023  150.023,
                     150.025
                    
 
 
