DEWEY-HUMBOLDT, ARIZONA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2025 S-22, current through
Ordinance 24-203, passed 2-20-2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO 09-57
AN ORDINANCE OF THE MAYOR AND COMMON COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF DEWEY-HUMBOLDT,
COUNTY OF YAVAPAI, ARIZONA, ADOPTING A TOWN CODE; AND PROVIDING THAT THIS
RESOLUTION SHALL BE EFFECTIVE AFTER ITS PASSAGE AND APPROVAL ACCORDING TO LAW.
Whereas, the codification (or organization) of the Town's ordinances is an
essential part of the governmental function;
Whereas, such codification provides both the Town and its citizens with a body
of current, enforceable laws, in a way that makes the code easy to use and
reference.
Now, Therefore, Be it ordained by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of
Dewey-Humboldt, Arizona:
   1.   Adoption. That the document attached hereto as Exhibit A is the Town
Code, as amended from time to time by the adoption and eventual automatic
codification (currently, on a quarterly basis) of new ordinances and other
legal authorities of general application.
   2.   Effective Date. That this Ordinance shall be effective at the soonest
date after its passage and approval, according to law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Dewey-
Humboldt, Arizona, this 6th day of October 2009.
                        Len Marinaccio /s/
                        Len Marinaccio, Mayor
ATTEST:                      APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Judy Morgan /s/                Kenton Jones /s/
Judy Morgan, Town Clerk               Kenton Jones, Town Attorney
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to chapters and sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; calculation of time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances and resolutions; form; effective date
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Conflicting provisions
   
10.18   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.19   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall
constitute and be designated "The Code of the Town of Dewey-Humboldt, Arizona,"
and may be so cited. The code may also be cited as "The Dewey-Humboldt Town
Code" or "this code."
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The rules and the definitions set forth in this chapter shall be
observed in the construction of this code and the ordinances of the town unless
the construction would be inconsistent with either the manifest intent of the
Council or the context of this code or the ordinances of the town.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required,
the same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. All words and phrases shall be construed and understood
according to the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to the peculiar
and appropriate meaning.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, MUNICIPALITY or TOWN. The Town of Dewey-
Humboldt, Arizona.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNCIL. The Council of the Town of Dewey-Humboldt, Arizona.
      COUNTY. Yavapai County, Arizona.
      DAY. The period of time between any midnight and the midnight following.
      DAYTIME. The period of time between sunrise and sunset.
      DEPARTMENT, BOARD, COMMISSION, OFFICE, OFFICER or EMPLOYEE. Whenever any
department, board, commission, office, officer or employee is referred to, it
shall mean a department, board, commission, office, officer or employee of the
town unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
      EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire, Police and Public Service
Departments and legally authorized ambulances and emergency vehicles of the
State of Arizona, Yavapai County, or any political subdivisions thereof, and
vehicles of public service corporations.
      EMERGENCY WORK.  Any work performed to prevent or alleviate physical
trauma or property damage threatened or caused by an emergency, which has or
may result in a disruption of service, and which is necessary to protect the
health, safety and welfare of persons or property.
      IN THE TOWN or WITHIN THE TOWN. All territory over which the town now
has, or shall hereafter acquire, jurisdiction for the exercise of its police
powers or other regulatory powers.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words purporting to give a joint authority to three
or more town officers or other persons shall be construed as giving the
authority to a majority of the officers or other persons unless it shall be
otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority.
      MAJORITY. When used in reference to the Town Council, means 51% of those
members in attendance, provided that a quorum of the Council is also present.
      MAY. The action referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      MOTION. A proposal by a member of the Council to take official action.
      MOTOR VEHICLE.  Every self-propelled device in, upon or by which any
person or property is, or may be, transported upon a public highway, excepting
aircraft and devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
      NIGHTTIME. The period of time between sunset and sunrise.
      OATH. Includes affirmation or declaration.
      ORDINANCE.  A law passed by the Council.
      PERSON. Shall extend and be applied to firms, corporations or voluntary
associations, as well as to individuals, unless plainly inapplicable.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every species of property, except real
property as defined in this section.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. The words PRECEDING and FOLLOWING mean next
before and next after, respectively.
      PROCLAMATION. A public or official announcement made by the Mayor that
identifies particular days or events of special interest.
      PROPERTY. Real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      RESOLUTION. An official expression of the opinion or will of the Council.
      SHALL. The action referred to is mandatory.
      SHALL HAVE BEEN. Includes past and future cases.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the signer cannot write,
the signer's or subscriber's name being written near the mark by a witness who
writes his or her own name near the signer's or subscriber's name; but a
signature or subscription by mark can be acknowledged or can serve as a
signature or subscription to a sworn statement only when two witnesses so sign
their own names thereto.
      STATE. The State of Arizona.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land shall include any
person holding a written or an oral lease or who occupies the whole or part of
the building or land, either alone or with others.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, except where otherwise provided.
(Am. Ord. 12-91, passed 6-12-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions and construction of statutes generally, see A.R.S. §§ 1-211
through 1-215
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   And/or. "Or" may be read "and," and "and" may be read "or," if the
context requires it.
   (B)   Acts by agents. When this code or an ordinance requires an act to be
done which may by law as well be done by an agent as by the principal, the
requirement shall be construed to include all such acts when done by an
authorized agent.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses.
      (1)   Words of the masculine gender include the feminine; words in the
singular number include the plural, and words in the plural number include the
singular.
      (2)   The present tense includes the past and future tenses, and the
future includes the present.
   (D)   General terms. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Council that the titles,
chapters, subchapters, sections, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code
shall be severable, and if any provision of this code is held unconstitutional
for any reason by a court of competent jurisdiction, the unconstitutionality
shall not affect any of the remaining provisions of the code.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO CHAPTERS AND SECTIONS.
   (A)   All references to chapters or sections are to the chapters and
sections of this code unless otherwise specified.
   (B)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within the town for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; CALCULATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done as provided in this code or
in any order issued pursuant to any ordinance, when expressed in days, shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, except that if the
last day is a Saturday, Sunday or holiday it shall be excluded; and when such
time is expressed in hours, the whole of Saturday, Sunday or a holiday, from
midnight to midnight, shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code, except
as otherwise provided in §
10.14. However, all rights, duties and obligations created or imposed by the
repealed ordinances shall continue and exist in all respects as if this code
had not been adopted and enacted.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   The adoption and enactment of this code shall not be construed to repeal or
in any way to modify or affect:
   (A)   Any special ordinance or ordinances regarding franchises, annexations,
dedications or zoning;
   (B)   Any ordinance making an appropriation;
   (C)   Any ordinance affecting any bond issue or by which any bond issue may
have been authorized;
   (D)   The running of the statute of limitations in force at the time this
code becomes effective;
   (E)   The continued existence and operation of any department, agency,
commission or office heretofore legally established or held;
   (F)   Any bond of any public officer;
   (G)   Any taxes, fees, assessments or other charges incurred or imposed; and
   (H)   Any ordinances authorizing, ratifying, confirming, approving or
accepting any compact or contract with any other municipality, the State of
Arizona or any county or subdivision thereof, or with the United States or any
agency or instrumentality thereof.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS; FORM; EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   Form of ordinances and resolutions. All ordinances and resolutions
shall be in writing, with a copy provided to each member of the Council and the
Town Clerk. If a proposed ordinance or resolution is amended by Council during
the meeting at which it is approved, the Town Clerk shall record the amendments
and read the amended provisions back to Council prior to the final vote.
   (B)   All ordinances shall be introduced in one Town Council or study
session meeting with presentation by the staff and discussion by Council and
input from the public but not voted on during that presentation. All ordinances
shall then return to a subsequent regular Town Council meeting for discussion,
consideration, and the adopting vote, if any. This two-part process shall be
required for ordinances that are to be codified, are repealing existing
ordinances, supplementing existing ordinances, or modifying existing
ordinances.
   (C)   Record of vote. For any resolution or ordinance approved by Council,
the Town Clerk shall record the yeas, nays and abstentions. If the Council
approves extensive or complicated amendments to a proposed ordinance or
resolution, the Town Clerk shall prepare a revised version as approved by
Council, and obtain the Mayor's signature as soon as practicable.
   (D)   Effective date. No ordinance, resolution or franchise shall become
operative until 30 days after its passage by the Council and signature by the
Mayor, except emergency measures necessary for the immediate preservation of
the peace, health, or safety of the town.
   (E)   Votes required for approval. All ordinances and resolutions, except
emergency ordinances and resolutions, shall require the affirmative vote of a
majority of all Councilmembers present at any regular or special Council
meeting in order to become effective. Emergency ordinances and resolutions
shall require the affirmative vote of three-fourths of all the members of the
Council. No ordinance shall be passed unless all Councilmembers present at the
meeting are in possession of copies of such ordinance.
(Am. Ord. 12-91, passed 6-12-2012; Am. Ord. 15-116, passed 9-15-2015; Am. Ord.
21-158, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision shall
be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause or provision unless it shall be expressly so provided. The
repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred
before the repeal took effect nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending
at the time of the repeal for any offense committed under the ordinance
repealed.
§ 10.17 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If any provision of this code conflicts with any other provision of this
code, any other local legislation, or any state or federal law, the provision
which is more stringent or restrictive in nature shall apply unless the context
clearly requires or indicates otherwise.
§ 10.18 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to the
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.19 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (A.R.S. § 9-240)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a "statutory reference"
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see A.R.S. § 39-121
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found responsible for violating any provisions of this
code, except as otherwise provided in this code, shall be responsible for a
civil code infraction, and upon such finding of responsibility therefor may be
punished by a civil sanction not to exceed $500. Each day that a violation
continues shall be a separate offense punishable as herein provided.
      (1)   In addition to any monetary civil sanction, the Civil Hearing
Officer shall order the defendant to abate the civil code infraction, unless it
has been abated by the date of a finding of responsibility therefor.
      (2)   The Civil Hearing Officer shall have the authority, within his or
her discretion, to suspend the payment of any civil sanction imposed.
      (3)   In any case involving a civil code infraction relating to the
occupancy or use of land, any monetary civil sanction imposed pursuant to this
section upon a defendant who holds an ownership interest in such land shall be
recordable as a lien upon the land and shall run with the land. The town, at
its sole option, may record a notice of civil sanction and abatement order with
the Yavapai County Recorder and thereby cause compliance by any person(s) or
entity thereafter acquiring the property. When the property is brought into
compliance by the owner or responsible party, a satisfaction of notice of civil
sanction and abatement order shall be filed at the request and expense of the
owner or responsible party. It shall be the property owner's responsibility to
secure the satisfaction of notice of civil sanction and abatement order from
the town.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this code which
is classified as a Class 1 misdemeanor, upon conviction thereof, may be
punished by a fine not to exceed $2,500, by imprisonment for a period not to
exceed six months, by a term of probation not to exceed three years, or by any
combination of the fine, imprisonment and probation.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, any person found to
have violated any provision of this code or amendments thereto, which pursuant
to this section is classified as a civil code infraction, and who has been
twice previously found to have violated the provision within the preceding 24
months, shall, in addition to any penalty prescribed for such civil code
infraction, be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine
not to exceed $2,500, by imprisonment for a period not to exceed six months, by
a term of probation not to exceed three years, or by any combination of the
fine, imprisonment and probation.
Statutory reference:
   Maximum penalty for civil traffic violations, see A.R.S. § 28-1598
   Misdemeanor penalty authorized, see A.R.S. § 9-240(B)(28)(b)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   TOWN COUNCIL AND OFFICIALS
         
31.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS AND DEPARTMENTS
         
32.   TOWN POLICIES
         
33.   PERSONNEL
         
34.   FINANCES AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: TOWN COUNCIL AND OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.001   Form of government
Town Council
   
30.015   Town Council generally
   
30.016   Vacancies on Town Council
   
30.017   Compensation, bond and financial disclosure statement
   
30.018   Council actions
   
30.019   Council Member committees
Town Officials
   
30.030   Town Manager
   
30.031   Mayor and Vice Mayor; appointment, power and duties
   
30.032   Town Magistrate
Elections
   
30.042   Election day
   
30.043   Referendum and initiative elections
   
30.044   Recall elections
   
30.045   Election of Mayor
   
30.046   Optional procedure for municipal elections
Communications
   
30.080   Written communications
   
30.081   Request for staff resources
   
30.082   Relationship and communications with staff
   
30.083   Relationship and communication with boards, commissions and committees
   
30.084   Handling of litigation and other confidential information
   
30.085   Representing an official town position
   
30.086   Attorney-client relationship
Council Meetings
   
30.100   Council meetings generally
   
30.101   Regular meetings
   
30.102   Study sessions
   
30.103   Executive sessions
   
30.104   Special and emergency meetings
   
30.105   Council agenda
   
30.106   Decorum
   
30.107   Time of adjournment
   
30.108   Agenda packets
   
30.109   Protocol at meetings
Cross-reference:
   Right to bear firearms on municipal premises, town meetings, see §
32.03
   Code of ethics and conduct, see
Ch. 35
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.001 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   Form. The Town of Dewey-Humboldt municipal government operates under a
council- manager form of government as established by this town ordinance.
   (B)   Roles. Under this form of government, the Council provides legislative
directives, sets town policy per §
30.015(B) and monitors its execution by town staff. The Town Manager serves as
the town’s chief administrative officer and is responsible for directing the
day-to-day administrative operations of the town.
(Ord. 09-49, passed 4-7-2009; Am. Ord. 10-76, passed 11-30-2010)
TOWN COUNCIL
§ 30.015 TOWN COUNCIL GENERALLY.
   (A)   Number and term. The elected officials of the town shall be seven
Councilmembers (including the Mayor) who shall constitute the Town Council.
Councilmembers shall serve four-year, staggered terms as provided by state law.
Each Councilmember shall continue in office until the assumption of duties of
office by his or her duly elected and sworn successor. Councilmembers elected
in 2011 or appointed to fill the term of a Councilmember elected in 2011 shall
serve until the assumption of duties by Councilmembers elected in the Fall 2014
election. Councilmembers elected in the Spring 2013 election shall serve until
the assumption of duties by Councilmembers elected in the Fall 2016 election.
   (B)   Any form of action permissible. The corporate powers of the town shall
be vested in the Council and shall be exercised only as directed or authorized
by law. All powers of the Council shall be exercised by ordinance, resolution,
order, or motion.
   (C)   No artificial limit. The Town Council has the power, in the name of
the town, to do and perform all acts and things appropriate to a
municipalcorporation and the general welfare of its inhabitants,which are not
specifically prohibited by the constitution, the town ordinance or state or
federal laws.
   (D)   Majority rule. The Council acts as a body. Policy is established by
majority vote, except that a supermajority (three quarters) vote is required
for approval before the town is allowed to enter into a financial loan
repayment agreement with the Water Infrastructure Finance Authority (WIFA), or
any other source; to construct, acquire, or improve a wastewater treatment
facility, a drinking water facility, or a non- point source project. In all
other matters, a decision of the majority binds the Council to a course of
action. The Council majority may be a majority of the quorum of the Council.
   (E)   No special powers. No Councilmember has extraordinary powers beyond
those of other members (except as may otherwise be provided in state law). All
members, including the Mayor, have equal powers.
   (F)   One office. No member of the Council is permitted to hold any other
town office or town employment (except as may otherwise be provided in the town
ordinance).
   (G)   Assumption of office. Immediately prior to assumption of the duties of
office, each Councilmember shall sign the Council Code of Ethics and take and
subscribe to the oath of office. The oath shall be given by the Town Magistrate
or by the Town Clerk. Councilmembers of the town shall assume the duties of
office at the first regular meeting of the Council in December next following
the date of the primary or general election at which the Councilmembers were
elected. Assumption of an elected office will result in the automatic
resignation of all other town offices, elected or appointed.
(Ord. 09-49, passed 4-7-2009; Am. Ord. 13-97, passed 6-4-2013; Am. Ord. 14-106,
passed 6-3-2014)
Editor’s note:
   Division (D) of §
30.015 amended by Prop. 457, passed by electorate on 11-8-2022.
§ 30.016 VACANCIES ON TOWN COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Council shall fill any vacancy that may occur for whatever reason
by appointment until the next regularly scheduled Council election, if the
vacancy occurs more than 30 days before the nomination petition deadline.
   (B)   If the vacancy occurs 30 days or less before the nomination petition
deadline, the vacancy shall be filled by appointment for the unexpired term.
(Ord. 09-49, passed 4-7-2009; Am. Ord. 09-56, passed 9-8-2009; Am. Ord. 10-79,
passed 12-7-2010: Am. Ord. 12-90, passed 2-7-2012)
§ 30.017 COMPENSATION, BOND AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE STATEMENT.
   (A)   Council compensation. Councilmembers will not receive any salary,
benefits or other form of monetary compensation for their services. A sitting
Council may, by ordinance, modify compensation; provided, however, such
modification shall not be effective for any Councilmember during his term in
which the ordinance modifying compensation was adopted. For Councilmembers not
in office at the time the ordinance was adopted, the modified compensation
shall become effective upon the start of such Councilmember's term in December
following the Council election.
   (B)   Bond. Prior to taking office, the town will provide for each
Councilmember an official bond enforceable against the principal and his or her
sureties. The bond shall be payable to the state, and to and for the use and
benefit of the town or any person who may be injured or aggrieved by acts of
the officer in his or her official capacity. A person so injured or aggrieved
may bring suit on the bond under provisions identical to those contained in
A.R.S. § 38-260. Bonds shall be in a sum as shall be determined by the Town
Manager and the premium for the bonds shall be paid by the town.
   (C)   Financial disclosure statement. Each member of the Council shall file
a financial disclosure statement by January 31st of each year on a form setting
forth such information as may be required by state law.
(Ord. 09-49, passed 4-7-2009; Am. Ord. 14-105, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 30.018 COUNCIL ACTIONS.
   (A)   Legislative actions by the Town Council may be taken by means of
ordinance, resolution, or motion duly made and passed by a majority of the
Councilmembers present (unless otherwise required in this code or by state or
federal law). All amendments to the town code shall be accomplished by approval
by the Town Council of an ordinance, setting forth the amendment in full or
adopting the amendment by reference, as authorized by Arizona law.
   (B)   In accordance with state law, public actions of the Council are
recorded in the minutes of the Town Council meeting. The Town Clerk is required
to make a record of business actually passed upon by a vote of the Council and
should not record any remarks of Councilmembers or of any other person, except
at the special request of a Councilmember, with the consent of the Council.
   (C)   Actions of the Council concerning confidential property, personnel,
and legal matters of the town are to be reported consistent with state law.
   (D)   Agenda items submitted by a Councilmember shall be introduced by the
submitting Councilmember without restrictions, interference or comment from
other Councilmembers, the Mayor or the public. Discussion on the item shall not
be commenced until the submitting Councilmember yields the floor.
(Ord. 09-49, passed 4-7-2009; Am. Ord. 12-91, passed 6-12-2012; Am. Ord. 13-99,
passed 9-17-2013)
§ 30.019 COUNCIL MEMBER COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The Town Council may organize itself into standing or ad hoc
committees of the Council (each a COUNCIL MEMBER COMMITTEE) to facilitate
Council review and action regarding certain matters referred to them by the
Town Council.
   (B)   All work undertaken by a Council Member Committee must originate with
the Council and all actions of a Council Member Committee shall be reported to
the Council.
   (C)   Standing, special, or ad hoc Council Member Committees may be created
or dissolved by a majority vote of the Council.
   (D)   Other members of the Council not assigned to a Council Member
Committee may attend meetings of a Council Member Committee, as an observer;
however, they shall be seated with the audience and may not participate in any
manner or address the Council Member Committee.
   (E)   If an absence is anticipated on a Council Member Committee and that
absence may impede the work of the Council Member Committee, the Council Member
Committee chair or other member may request that the Council designate another
member of the Council to attend for the absent member and serve as an alternate
member of the Council Member Committee. The term for service by the alternate
member will be the term designated in the appointment, or for one meeting, if
no term is specified.
(Ord. 09-49, passed 4-7-2009; Am. Ord. 16-126, passed 4-5-2016)
TOWN OFFICIALS
§ 30.030 TOWN MANAGER.
   The town hereby identifies the following as the authority and duties of the
Town Manager:
   (A)   Office created. The Office of the Town Manager is created and
established by this section. The Town Manager shall be appointed by the Council
on the basis of his or her administrative and executive ability and
qualifications.
   (B)   Reserved.
   (C)   Bond. The Town Manager shall furnish a corporate surety bond to be
approved by the Council in a sum as may be determined by the Council, and shall
be conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties imposed upon the
Town Manager as herein prescribed. The cost of the bond will be paid by the
town.
   (D)   Compensation package.  
      (1)   The Manager shall receive compensation as determined by the Town
Council. The Council shall from time to time examine at the salary range to
determine if an adjustment should be made.
      (2)   Health and retirement benefits are the same as for all salaried
town employees.
      (3)   The Town Manager shall be reimbursed for all sums necessarily
incurred or spent in the performance of duties, or incurred when traveling on
business pertaining to the town under direction of the Council. Reimbursement
will be made in accordance with Administrative Rule 10-04.
   (E)   Removal from office. The Town Manager may be removed, with or without
cause by the Town Council, by simple majority vote of its members.
   (F)   Absence; duties during vacancy. The Town Clerk will perform the duties
of Town Manager during the temporary absence or disability of the permanent
Town Manager unless otherwise specified by the Town Manager. In the event the
office of Town Manager is vacant and no interim Town Manager has been appointed
by the Council, the Clerk shall carry out certain administrative duties of the
Town Manager as directed by Council until a Manager or Interim Manager has been
appointed.
   (G)   Authority and responsibilities. The Town Manager shall be responsible
to the Council for the proper administration of all affairs of the town under
the specific direction and control of the Council. The responsibilities are set
forth as follows:
      (1)   Coordinate and execute on behalf of the Town Council general
administration and supervision of town employees, and implement the policies
set by Council by motions, ordinances, resolutions and codes of the town;
      (2)   Analyze and supervise the functions, duties and activities of the
various departments and services of the town and of all employees thereof, and
make such recommendations to the Town Council with reference thereto as in his
or her judgment will result in improved efficiency in the overall operation of
the town;
      (3)   Attend all meetings of the Council unless excused by the Mayor
individually or the Council. He or she shall present options and
recommendations relative to each item on the agenda for approval, rejection or
modification by the Council. Also be prepared to report on or discuss any
matter concerning the affairs of the departments, services, or activities under
his or her supervision upon which the Council shall be informed;
      (4)   Keep the Town Council, committees, commissions and boards fully
advised about relevant information including, but not limited to legal actions
involving the town, upcoming discussions and events that pertain to their
respective functions. Any information received should be transmitted, as it
comes in, so that the committees, commissions and boards will have plenty of
lead time to investigate and advise the Council;
      (5)   Recommend to the Council for their consideration resolutions,
ordinances or other measures as needed or appropriate. The Manager is bound by
whatever action the Council takes;
      (6)   Appoint, promote, demote, suspend, and remove employees of the
town. The Town Manager may recommend to the Council appointment and removal of
the Attorney and Magistrate;
      (7)   Keep the Council at all times fully advised as to the financial
conditions and needs of the town and to provide whatever reports to the Council
as it may deem necessary. It shall further be his or her duty to see that no
indebtedness is incurred or expenditure made in violation of the Arizona
Constitution, the State Budget Law, A.R.S. §§ 42-17101 et seq. and the
Principles of Sound Financial Management, Resolution 08-58;
      (8)   Supervise the expenditures of all departments or services of the
town and act as purchasing agent for the purchase of all supplies, goods,
wares, merchandise, equipment and materials which may be required for any of
the departments or services within the existing budget;
      (9)   Receive from each department of the town, itemized annual estimates
of expenditures required by them for capital outlay, salaries, wages and
operating costs; to tabulate the same into a preliminary consolidated town
budget and submit the same to the Town Council annually on the date specified
by them, with his or her recommendations for all expenses and revenues;
      (10)   Either the Town Manager or the Town Clerk shall recommend the
issuance of all warrants or checks drawn on the bank account or accounts of the
town to be signed by two Council Members;
      (11)   Follow through and endeavor to resolve all complaints filed
against any employee, department or service within two weeks. All such
complaints and resolutions shall be forwarded to the Town Council as they are
received;
      (12)   Keep the Town Council informed of all opportunities available from
or sought by organizations or individuals whose aim and purpose it is to
advance the interests of the town and its residents;
      (13)   Make and keep an up-to-date inventory of all property owned by the
town and exercise general supervision over all property that is under the
town's control and jurisdiction of the Council. Recommend to the Town Council
the purchase of machinery, and equipment as deemed needed;
      (14)   See that all franchises, permits and privileges granted by the
town are faithfully observed;
      (15)   Performs such other duties as may be directed by the Town Council.
   (H)   Limitations upon responsibility. The Town Manager, other than making
recommendations, shall not exercise any policy-making or legislative functions
whatsoever, nor attempt to commit or bind the Town Council or any member
thereof to any action, plan or program requiring official action of the Town
Council. This section does not grant any authority to the Town Manager that is
vested in or imposed by general law or town ordinances in any town committee,
commission, board, officer or employee.
   (I)   Conduct. The Town Manager shall endeavor at all times to exercise
tact, patience, impartiality and courtesy in his or her contacts with the
public, the Town Council, all town boards, committees, commissions, departments
and employees.
   (J)   Resignation of Manager. The Manager shall provide the Council with 30
days’ written notice of intention to resign his or her position. The Manager
shall assist the Council on their recruitment and selection of a replacement if
requested by the Council. In th event of resignation due to health reasons or
other reasons which a majority vote of the Council deems an emergency, the
period of written notice shall be determined in conference between the Manager
and the Town Council. During the time that the town has no interim or permanent
Manager, the Town Council may act in a limited capacity until a permanent
Manager is hired and on board at Town Hall. The duties of the Council will be:
      (1)   To receive information sent via e-mail or snail mail to the Manager
so that no information slips through the cracks;
      (2)   Answer any questions that come in via phone or in person from
citizens or others that would normally be handled by the Town Manager; and
      (3)   To relay any information without opinions to the whole Council.
(Ord. 08-36, passed 1-15-2008; Am. Ord. 10-76, passed 11-30-2010; Am. Ord. 11-
82, passed 3-22-2011; Am. Ord. 11-84, passed 4-5-2011; Am. Ord. 13-102, passed
10-15-2013)
§ 30.031 MAYOR AND VICE MAYOR; APPOINTMENT, POWER AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Preamble. Pursuant to Arizona Revised Statutes, in addition to being a
member of the Town Council, the Mayor is the town's Chief Executive Officer.
All authority in town government ultimately resides with the Town Council of
which the mayor comprises one-seventh of its membership. Except as set forth in
the Arizona Constitution and the Arizona Revised Statutes, the Mayor has no
duties, responsibility or authority not delegated by the Council. This section
sets forth the duties, responsibilities and authority delegated by the Common
Council to the Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor shall perform such duties as prescribed by town ordinance,
as imposed by the Town Council, or as required by the constitution and laws of
the State of Arizona, including the following:
      (1)   The Mayor is the official head of the town for all ceremonial
purposes.
      (2)   The Mayor does not possess any power of veto.
      (3)   The Mayor (and any other member of Council) shall not use town
letterhead for any correspondence without the express approval of a majority of
the Town Council and unless it reflects the view of the majority of the Council
as expressed by either vote or consensus.
      (4)   The Mayor shall not act as a representative of the town before any
other town, city, county, state, or federal government or agency without the
express approval of a majority of the Town Council. If Council has previously
appointed a Councilmember to act as the town’s representative to such a body or
meeting, the Mayor may attend as an observer and shall not participate in the
meeting unless acting as an alternate representative of the town.
      (5)    Reserved.
      (6)   The Mayor shall act as the Chairman of the Council and preside over
its meetings in accordance with Robert’s Rules of Order and with the Council
procedures set forth in §§
30.107 and
30.109 of this code.
      (7)   As a member of the Council, the Mayor shall have the same rights
and privileges as all other Councilmembers, including the ability to make,
second, and vote on motions made by the Council.
      (8)   The Mayor may make inquiries to town staff but shall not interfere
with the Town Manager’s authority, either by giving orders or explicit
directions, suggestions, or requests, publicly or privately, regarding town
matters to any subordinates of the Town Manager whether it be financial,
budgetary, human resources, or operational in manner. The Mayor shall not
attempt to exert influence on the Town Manager on issues relating to the hiring
or removal of persons employed by the town or on issues yet to be decided on by
the Council.
      (9)   The Mayor shall sign any ordinance, resolution, contract, warrant,
demand or other document or instrument requiring the Mayor’s signature within
five business days from the date the Council took action requiring the Mayor’s
signature or from notification by the Town Manager that such document requires
the Mayor’s signature. If the Mayor refuses or fails to sign any ordinance,
resolution, contract, warrant, demand or other document or instrument
authorized to be signed and requiring his signature, then the Vice-Mayor shall
sign such ordinance, resolution, contract, warrant, demand or other document or
instrument and when so signed such document shall have the same force and
effect as if signed by the Mayor. If the Vice Mayor refuses or fails to sign
any ordinance, resolution, contract, warrant, demand or other document or
instrument within five days from notification by the Town Manager that such
document requires his signature, then any member of the Council may sign such
document and when so signed such document shall have the same force and effect
as if signed by the Mayor.
      (10)   The Mayor may, by proclamation, declare a local emergency to exist
due to any natural or man-made calamity or disaster. The Mayor may also declare
such an emergency in the event of a threat of occurrence of riot or other acts
of civil disobedience which endanger life or property within the town. After
declaration of any such emergency, the Mayor shall govern by proclamation and
impose any and all necessary regulations to preserve the peace and order of the
town, including but not limited to:
         (a)   Imposition of a curfew for all or any portion of the town;
         (b)   Ordering the closing of any business;
         (c)   Closing to the public access to any public building, street or
other public place; or
         (d)   Calling upon regular or auxiliary law enforcement agencies and
organizations within or without the town for assistance in providing for the
safety of the town, its citizens and property.
      (11)   As the Mayor may deem appropriate, and upon request by an
organization or individual, the Mayor may prepare proclamations that identify
particular days or events to be of special interest to the town and its
citizens.
      (12)   The Mayor shall prepare and submit to the Council an annual update
on the external memberships and committees that the Mayor participates in or
serves on in his or her official capacity. The update shall include the
entity’s mission and purpose, associated costs, the role of the Mayor, and the
town’s position/policy for each of the external memberships or committees. The
report shall be submitted at the first regular Council Meeting in December.
Exception: if any member of Council requests a report on an activity or meeting
that the Mayor has attended prior to the annual report date that member may
request such report by action of Council action agenda request form. Upon
majority affirmative vote of the Council, the Mayor shall provide said report,
including direct effects and justification for the use of town funds, at a
Council meeting within 30 days of the request.
      (13)   The Mayor may perform such other duties consistent with the
Mayoral duties set forth herein and as required by town ordinance or
resolution, action of council, or Arizona State Law.
   (C)   Action in excess of delegation. If a majority of the Town Council
possesses a reasonable belief that the Mayor has acted in excess of the Town
Council’s delegation of duties, responsibilities, or authority, the Town
Council shall direct the Town Prosecutor to consider charging the Mayor with a
civil violation of this section. If the Town Prosecutor brings such a charge
and if the Town Magistrate determines by a preponderance of evidence that the
Mayor has exceeded his or her delegated authority, the Magistrate shall impose
a fine within the guidelines of his or her authority and the general penalties
set forth in §
10.99.
   (D)   Failure to perform. If a majority of the Town Council possesses a
reasonable belief that the Mayor has failed to perform any duty or
responsibility imposed on him or her by this section, any other ordinance,
statute, or law, the Town Council shall direct the Town Prosecutor to consider
charging the Mayor with a civil violation under this section or a criminal
charge of nonfeasance in public office as defined by Arizona Revised Statutes,
or the Town Prosecutor may, of his or her own volition, charge the Mayor with a
civil violation under this section or a criminal charge of nonfeasance in
public office as defined by Arizona Revised Statutes. If the Town Prosecutor
brings a civil charge and if the Town Magistrate determines by a preponderance
of evidence that the Mayor has failed to perform as required by this section,
the Magistrate shall impose a fine within the guidelines of his or her
authority and general penalties set forth in the town code. If the Town
Prosecutor brings a criminal charge of nonfeasance in public office and the
Town Magistrate finds the Mayor guilty, the Mayor shall be subject to the
maximum criminal penalty available for such a violation. If the Town Prosecutor
brings both a civil and a criminal charge and the Mayor is found responsible
for the civil charge and guilty of the criminal charge, the Mayor shall be
subject to both the criminal penalties and the civil fine, but if fines are
imposed for the criminal offense, they shall offset any fines imposed for the
civil offense.
   (E)   Appointment of Vice Mayor; term. Absent a vote of no-confidence, at
the second regular Council Meeting in December each year, the Town Council
shall appoint the most senior Councilmember who has not already been the Vice
Mayor since incorporation on December 20, 2004, and has served on Council for
at least one year to the Vice Mayor position for a one-year term or until a new
Vice Mayor is appointed. If no Councilmember meets the above criteria or the
person to be appointed declines the appointment, the most senior Councilmember
shall be appointed to serve as Vice Mayor for a one-year term. If two or more
Councilmembers satisfy the criteria to be selected to serve as Vice Mayor and
desire to serve as the Vice Mayor, the Vice Mayor shall be selected from the
Councilmembers who satisfy the criteria of this division (E) by a majority vote
of Councilmembers attending a duly called meeting of the Council.
   (F)   Duties of Vice Mayor. The Vice Mayor shall perform the duties of the
Mayor in the Mayor’s absence and shall perform such other duties as may be,
from time to time, delegated by the Town Council.
(Ord. 09-49, passed 4-7-2009; Am. Ord. 09-56, passed 9-8-2009; Am. Ord. 13-100,
passed 9-17-2013; Am. Ord. 15-109, passed 1-20-2015; Am. Ord. 15-115, passed 9-
1-2015; Am. Ord. 15- 119, passed 12-15-2015; Am. Ord. 15-121, passed 12-15-
2015; Am. Ord. 20-151, passed 1-21-2020; Am. Ord. 24-203, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 30.032 TOWN MAGISTRATE.
   (A)   Town Magistrate. The presiding officer of the Magistrate Court shall
be the Town Magistrate, who shall be appointed by the Town Council to a term of
no less than two years. The Magistrate may be removed by the Council only for
cause during his or her term as Magistrate.
   (B)   Associate Magistrate. The Town Magistrate may recommend to the Council
the names of individuals qualified to serve as Associate Magistrates for the
Magistrate Court. Upon appointment, Associate Magistrates shall be subject to
the assignment and direction of the Town Magistrate. Associate Magistrates
shall serve for a term that exceeds the then current Magistrate's term by one
year, subject to removal by the Town Council for any reason. All duly appointed
Associate Magistrates shall be compensated per a fee established by the Town
Council, and shall be considered contract employees of the town.
   (C)   Powers and duties. The powers and duties of the Magistrate shall
include:
      (1)   The powers and duties set forth and conferred upon him or her under
the provisions of the State Constitution and Statutes, this code and the
ordinances and resolutions of the town.
      (2)   Managing the administration of the judicial and internal
administrative functions of the town court, including the supervision of all
judges and judicial and nonjudicial staff, who directly affect the operation of
the court.
      (3)   Complying with the rules, policies and procedures established by
the town in respect to personnel matters, as expressed in the ordinances and
codes, including, but not limited to, hiring, classification, salary
administration, termination, grievance procedures, sick leave, overtime,
vacation time and work hours.
      (4)   Adhering to state law and the policies and procedures of the town
in budgeting and expenditure procedures, including the procedures adopted for
the purchase of equipment or supplies.
      (5)   Keeping of a docket in which shall be entered each action and the
proceedings of the Court therein.
      (6)   Fixing and receiving all bond and bails and receiving all fines,
penalties, fees and other monies as provided by law.
      (7)   Establishing an effective system of proper payment and distribution
of all fees, fines, penalties and other monies collected consistent with
Arizona Statute and the rules, regulations and orders of the Arizona Supreme
Court and the Administrative Offices of the Arizona Supreme Court (the "AOC").
      (8)   Preparing a schedule of criminal traffic violations listing
specific bail for each violation.
      (9)   Preparing of a schedule of civil traffic violations listing a
specific fine and deposit for each violation.
      (10)   Preparing of a schedule of criminal violations of town code,
ordinances, and resolutions listing specific bail for each violation.
      (11)   Preparing of a schedule of civil violations of town code,
ordinances, and resolutions listing a specific fine and deposit for each
violation.
      (12)   Designating a person, a specific location and the hours which such
person will be at the location to accept proper payments and deposits for civil
violations for and on behalf of the court.
      (13)   Collecting, safeguarding and accounting for all fines, sanctions,
restitution and bond payments, which may come into the possession of the town
court and transferring such public monies to the Town Treasurer, in accordance
with State Law and procedures established by the Town Manager or the Manager's
designee.
      (14)   Preparing accurately and submitting on a timely basis, to the
proper authority, all reports required to be submitted by statutes, court rule,
administrative order, town charter, ordinances, or, as may be appropriate and
necessary, the Town Council or Town Manager.
      (15)   Assisting the Town Manager's office in the preparation of monthly
management information reports which summarize year to date statistics
regarding the Town Court, key judicial functions, resource use and case
management/ resolution data.
      (16)   Complying with all town rules, regulations, policies and
directives of the town which are not inconsistent with the Constitution, State
Law, Town Charter, Town Ordinance or administrative orders of the Supreme Court
or lawfully delegated authority.
   (D)   Qualifications. The Magistrate and all Associate Magistrates must be
and remain members in good standing (active, inactive, or judicial) of the
State Bar of Arizona, with at least five years of practice as an attorney or
judicial officer.
   (E)   Duties of Town Council and Town Manager. The compensation (in an
amount to be determined by Council) and the town pro rata portion of the annual
"Judicial" membership fee of the State Bar, if any, shall be borne by the town.
All training required by the AOC for service to the town (pro rata) shall be
paid for by the town. The Town Council shall provide for the financial,
physical, personnel and consulting requirements of the Town Court. The Town
Council may adopt those additional orders and resolutions which are deemed
necessary for the consistent implementation of this section. The duties and
responsibilities of the Town Manager in respect to the Town Court shall include
but are not limited to:
      (1)   Establishing such rules, regulations, policies and directives which
are not inconsistent with the constitution, state law, town charter, town
ordinances or administrative orders of the Supreme Court or lawfully delegated
authority; as may be deemed reasonably necessary to the effective operation of
the court as a part of the town government and to ensure that the personnel,
budgeting and expenditure rules, regulations and requirements are followed by
the town court.
      (2)   Providing for a system for the collection and safeguarding of all
fines, sanctions, restitution and bond payments, which may come into the
possession of the town court, and for transferring such public monies to the
Town Treasurer.
   (F)   Filling of vacancies. In the event of the death, resignation,
suspension or removal of a town judge, such vacancy may be filled for the
unexpired term of office. The Town Council may suspend or remove a judge:
      (1)   For any reason authorized by law;
      (2)   Whenever the judge is unable to perform the duties of the office;
or
      (3)   For failure to meet the minimum qualifications of the position.
   (G)   Temporary Judges pro tempore. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
in this section, the Town Magistrate may appoint judges to serve on a temporary
or "pro tempore" basis. Such judges shall be compensated on a contractual or
hourly basis, shall not be eligible for any benefits, and shall be appointed
for a term as set forth by the Town Magistrate.
(Ord. 09-52, passed 5-19-2009)
ELECTIONS
§ 30.042 ELECTION DAY.
   Commencing with the elections in 2014, the primary election shall be held on
the date of the primary election of the State of Arizona. The general election
shall be held on the date of the general election of the State of Arizona.
(Ord. 13-97, passed 6-4-2013)
§ 30.043 REFERENDUM AND INITIATIVE ELECTIONS.
   (A)   When a referendum or initiative is required to be placed upon the
ballot, the Council shall do so either:
      (1)   At the next regularly scheduled town primary or general election or
state general election; or
      (2)   Call a special election to be held on any date authorized by A.R.S.
§ 16-204.
   (B)   At all times citizens shall retain the right to vote by absentee
ballot.
(Ord. 13-97, passed 6-4-2013)
§ 30.044 RECALL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Officers subject to recall. Any public officer of the town holding an
elective office, whether by election or appointment, is subject to recall by
the qualified voters of the town, subject to the limitations and requirements
set forth in Article 8 of the Arizona Constitution and A.R.S. Title 19, Chapter
2.
   (B)   Limitations.
      (1)   A recall petition shall not be circulated against a public officer
of the town until he has held office for at least six months.
      (2)   After one recall petition and election, no further recall petition
shall be filed against the same officer during the term for which he was
elected unless the petitioners signing the petition first, at the time of
application for the subsequent recall petition, pay all expenses of the
preceding election into the public treasury from which such election expenses
were paid.
      (3)   Signatures obtained on recall petitions by a committee or any of
its officers agents, employees, or members before the filing of the committee's
statement of organization are void and shall not be counted in determining the
legal sufficiency of the petition.
   (C)   Resignation of officer.
      (1)   If a person against whom a recall petition is filed desires to
resign, the person may do so by filing a written tender of resignation with the
Town Clerk within five days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and other legal
holidays, after the filing of the petition, as prescribed in A.R.S.19-208.03.
      (2)   A vacancy created by such resignation shall be filled as provided
in §
30.016.
   (D)   Election.
      (1)   If the officer against whom a recall petition is filed does not
resign within the time period set forth in this section, the Town Clerk shall,
within 15 days, order a special recall election to be held on the next
following consolidated election date pursuant to A.R.S. 16-204 that is 90 days
or more after the order calling the election.
      (2)   Unless the officer otherwise requests in writing, the name of the
officer against whom the recall petition was filed shall be placed as a
candidate for the office on the official ballot without nomination.
(Am. Ord. 15-117, passed 10-6-2015)
§ 30.045 ELECTION OF MAYOR.
   (A)   Direct election of the Mayor. TheMayor of the town shall be directly
elected by the qualified electors of the town.
   (B)   Term of office. The term of office of the Mayor shall be two years,
except that, to accommodate the consolidated elections law, A.R.S. § 16-204,
the term of the Mayor elected in 2013 will end in December 2014, at the time of
assumption of duties by the Mayor elected in the Fall 2014 election.
(Ord. 05-05, passed 3-1-2005; Am. Ord. 13-97, passed 6-4-2013; Am. Ord. 14-106,
passed 6-3-2014)
§ 30.046 OPTIONAL PROCEDURE FOR MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Any candidate who receives at the primary election a majority of all
the votes cast at that election for that office shall be declared elected to
the office for which that person is a candidate, effective as of the date of
the general election, and no further election shall be held as to that
candidate; provided, that if more candidates receive a majority of votes cast
than there are seats to be filled for that office, then those candidates who
receive the highest number of votes equal to the number of seats to be filled
for the office shall be declared elected to that office. The majority of votes
cast shall be determined pursuant to Arizona state law.
   (B)   Nothing on the ballot in any election shall be indicative of the
support of the candidate.
   (C)   If, at any primary election held as above provided, there be any
office for which no candidate is elected, then as to that office, the election
shall be considered to be a primary election for nomination of candidates for
the office, and the general municipal election shall be held to vote for
candidates to fill the office.
      (1)   Candidates to be placed on the ballot at the general municipal
election shall be those not elected at the primary election and shall be equal
in number to twice the number to be elected to any given office or less than
that number if there be less than that number of names on the primary election
ballot.
      (2)   Persons who receive the highest number of votes for the respective
offices at such first election shall be the only candidates at the second
election; provided that if there be any person who, under the provisions of
this section, would have been entitled to become a candidate for any office
except for the fact that some other candidate received an equal number of votes
therefor, then all such persons receiving an equal number of votes shall
likewise become candidates for the office.
   (D)   The candidates equal in number to the persons to be elected who
receive the highest number of votes shall be declared elected.
(Ord. 05-04, passed 3-1-2005; Am. Ord. 16-128, passed 4-5-2016)
COMMUNICATIONS
§ 30.080 WRITTEN COMMUNICATIONS.
   Written communications addressed to the Town Council are to be referred to
the Town Clerk for forwarding to the Council.
(Ord. 09-49, passed 4-7-2009)
§ 30.081 REQUEST FOR STAFF RESOURCES.
   (A)   Council requests for research or other staff work must be directed to
the Town Manager, or the Town Attorney regarding legal matters, or the Town
Clerk regarding matters within the Clerk's authority.
   (B)   If more than one hour of staff time will be required to complete the
task/project, the item will be agendized to ask the Town Council if time should
be spent on preparing a report on the proposed item.
   (C)   Staff responses prepared to Council inquiries shall be distributed to
all Town Councilmembers.
(Ord. 09-49, passed 4-7-2009)
§ 30.082 RELATIONSHIP AND COMMUNICATIONS WITH STAFF.
   Staff serves the Town Council as a whole, therefore:
   (A)   A Councilmember shall not direct staff to initiate any action, change
a course of action or prepare any report, nor shall a Councilmember initiate
any project or study without the approval of the Council.
   (B)   Councilmembers shall not attempt to pressure or influence discussions,
recommendations, workloads, schedules or department priorities absent the
approval of the Council.
   (C)   When preparing for Council meetings, Councilmembers should direct
questions ahead of time to the Town Manager so that staff can provide the
desired information at the Council meeting.
   (D)   Any concerns by a member of the Town Council regarding the behavior or
work of a town employee should be directed to the Town Manager privately to
ensure the concern is resolved. Councilmembers shall not reprimand employees
directly nor should they communicate their concerns to anyone other than the
Town Manager.
   (E)   Councilmembers serving on Council committees or as the town's
representative to an outside agency may interact directly with town staff
assigned to that effort as the Town Manager's designee. The town staff member
so designated and assigned will keep the Town Manager appropriately informed.
   (F)   Soliciting political support from staff (e.g., financial
contributions, display of posters or lawn signs, name on support list, etc.) is
prohibited. Town staff may, as private citizens with constitutional rights,
support political candidates, but all such activities must be done away from
the workplace and may not be conducted while in uniform or wearing indicia of
association with the town.
(Ord. 09-49, passed 4-7-2009)
§ 30.083 RELATIONSHIP AND COMMUNICATION WITH BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND
COMMITTEES.
   Individual Councilmembers shall not attempt to pressure or influence board,
commission or committee (each, an “agency”) decisions, recommendations or
priorities, absent the approval of the Council. The role of Council liaison is
to observe and report to the Council and the agency the activities and actions
of the agency and the Council, respectively. Councilmembers may not serve as
members of any Town Agency.
(Ord. 09-49, passed 4-7-2009; Am. Ord. 09-56, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 30.084 HANDLING OF LITIGATION AND OTHER CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   All written materials and verbal information provided to
Councilmembers on matters that are confidential under state law shall be kept
in complete confidence to ensure that the town's position is not compromised.
No disclosure or mention of any information in these materials may be made to
anyone other than Councilmembers, the Town Attorney or Town Manager.
   (B)   Confidential materials provided in preparation for and during
executive sessions must be returned to staff at the conclusion of the executive
session.
   (C)   Confidential materials provided to Councilmembers outside of executive
sessions must be destroyed or returned to staff within 30 days of their
receipt.
   (D)   Councilmembers may not request confidential written Information from
staff that has not been provided to all Councilmembers.
(Ord. 09-49, passed 4-7-2009)
§ 30.085 REPRESENTING AN OFFICIAL TOWN POSITION.
   (A)   Town Councilmembers may use their title only when conducting official
town business, for information purposes, or as an indication of background and
expertise, carefully considering whether they are exceeding or appearing to
exceed their authority.
   (B)   Once the Town Council has taken a position on an issue, all official
town correspondence regarding that issue will reflect the Council's adopted
position.
   (C)   In most instances, the Council will authorize the Mayor to send
letters stating the town's official position to appropriate legislators.
   (D)   If a member of the Town Council, including the Mayor, appears before
another governmental agency organization to give a statement on an issue
affecting the town, the Councilmember should indicate the majority position
adopted by the Council. If the Council is divided on an issue, the member
should make no statement.
   (E)   Personal opinions and comments may be expressed only if the
Councilmember clarifies that these statements do not reflect the official
position of the Town Council.
   (F)   Any Councilmember, including the Mayor, who has been directed by
Council action (either by Council vote or by direction) to represent the town
at any meeting of an outside organization and who cannot attend the meeting,
shall immediately notify the alternate attendee, who shall attend the meeting.
If there is not an alternate or the alternate is not available to attend, the
representative shall immediately notify the Mayor and, in the absence of the
Mayor, the Vice Mayor, of the attendance conflict.
   (G)   If a Councilmember or the Mayor, appears on or is interviewed by any
news media, whether radio, television, newspaper, newsletter, or other
communication outlet, the Councilmember shall indicate the majority position
adopted by Council. If a majority position has not been reached on the subject,
the Councilmember shall indicate that no majority position has been adopted and
the Councilmember may give a statement expressing his personal opinion, but
only if he states that it is his own opinion and not the opinion of the town.
(Ord. 09-49, passed 4-7-2009; Am. Ord. 13-101, passed 10-1-2013; Am. Ord. 15-
120, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 30.086 ATTORNEY-CLIENT RELATIONSHIP.
[Reserved]
COUNCIL MEETINGS
§ 30.100 COUNCIL MEETINGS GENERALLY.
   (A)   All meetings of the Town Council are governed by state Open Meetings
Law (the “Act”). The Act applies to the Town Council, and all subordinate
boards, commissions, and Citizen Committees of the town. If any member of a
town legislative body, or town staff, believe that action has been taken on an
item in contravention of the Act, that person is privileged to place the item
on a future agenda for reconsideration or other action.
   (B)   Upon recommendation of the Town Manager, a majority of the
Councilmembers present may vote at a regular meeting to cancel or reschedule
any future Council meeting. In the event a meeting is cancelled, the Town Clerk
shall post notice of the cancellation.
(Ord. 09-49, passed 4-7-2009; Am. Ord. 20-151, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 30.101 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   Regular meetings of the Town Council are held on the first and third Tuesday
of each month at 6:30 p.m. in the Council Chambers of Dewey-Humboldt Town Hall.
All regular Council meetings are open to the public.
(Ord. 09-49, passed 4-7-2009; Am. Ord. 18-141, passed 1-9-2018; Am. Ord. 19-
145, passed 6-4- 2019)
§ 30.102 STUDY SESSIONS.
   Study Sessions or “Work Sessions” of the Town Council are held on the second
Tuesday of each month at 6:30 p.m. in the Council Chambers of Dewey-Humboldt
Town Hall to allow for a detailed review of important matters. Study sessions
may be conducted jointly with another town board, commission, Citizen
Committee, or another governmental agency. Formal action shall not be taken at
a study session. All study session meetings are open to the public.
(Ord. 09-49, passed 4-7-2009; Am. Ord. 13-98, passed 8-20-2013; Am. Ord. 18-
141, passed 1-9-2018; Am. Ord. 19-144, passed 2-5-2019; Am. Ord. 19-145, passed
6-4-2019)
§ 30.103 EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   (A)   Executive sessions are also regulated pursuant to the Act. All written
materials and verbal information regarding executive session items must remain
confidential. Written reports and exhibits or materials furnished to members of
the Council as part of an executive session must not be copied or saved and
must be returned to staff at the conclusion of the executive session. No member
of the Council, employee of the town, or anyone else present should disclose to
any other person the intent or substance of any discussion that takes place in
an executive session unless authorized by the Council.
   (B)   Permissible topics or issues for a executive session discussion are
limited to those topics or issues outlined in state law (currently, A.R.S. §
38-431.03), which generally are:
      (1)   Town staff employment matters;
      (2)   Records exempt by law from public inspection;
      (3)   Legal advice from the town's attorneys;
      (4)   Legal instructions to the town's attorneys regarding contracts
being negotiated, litigation, or settlement;
      (5)   Labor agreement negotiations;
      (6)   International, tribal, and interstate negotiations; and
      (7)   Real property purchase negotiations.
   (C)   All public statements, information and press releases relating to
executive session items should be handled by the Town Attorney or as otherwise
directed by the Council majority.
   (D)   Executive session meetings are closed to the public and the press.
   (E)   Any suspected violation of the confidentiality of an executive session
discussion shall be reported to the Town Attorney. CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
means a communication, verbal or written, made in executive session that is
specifically related to the legal basis for conducting the executive session.
(Ord. 09-49, passed 4-7-2009)
§ 30.104 SPECIAL AND EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   Pursuant to the Act, the Council may also hold special or emergency meetings
as deemed necessary. The Mayor or three Councilmembers may call for a special
meeting or special work session as he or she deems appropriate to conduct town
business subject to the requirements of the Open Meetings Law and posting of
meeting notices, except that no special meeting shall be held on the same day
as a study session.
(Ord. 09-49, passed 4-7-2009; Am. Ord. 10-77, passed 10-5-2010; Am. Ord. 19-
145, passed 6-4-2019)
§ 30.105 COUNCIL AGENDA.
   (A)   The Manager and Clerk are responsible for receiving and organizing all
materials for the Council agenda as outlined in Council-approved policy number
TC20-03.
   (B)   (1)   Any resident of the town may request that an item be placed on a
Council agenda by presenting the item at a Council meeting under the topic of
“public comment on non-agendized items”, or by requesting that a Councilmember
submit a “Council Agenda Action Request Form.”
      (2)   Any member of the Town Council may request an item be placed on a
future Council agenda. A request to modify or remove an agenda item may be made
by the Councilmember who requested the item be placed on the agenda, in which
case it shall be modified or removed without further action. The Mayor or any
other Councilmember may request an item that was submitted by another
Councilmember be modified or removed, in which case it may only be modified or
removed with the concurrence of the Councilmember who requested it be put on
the agenda.
   (C)   Agenda item requests shall be submitted using a “Council Agenda Action
Request Form” as outlined in Council-approved policy. The Town Manager or Town
Clerk shall place the item on the next appropriate agenda. An emergency agenda
request may be submitted after the deadline pursuant to § 30.031(B)(10).
   (D)   Order of agenda.
      (1)   Regular Council Meeting Agendas shall begin with the following
items:
         (a)   Call to order;
         (b)   Roll call;
         (c)   Pledge of Allegiance;
         (d)   Invocation;
         (e)   Announcements regarding town current events; guests;
appointments; and proclamations;
      (2) The following agenda items shall be appropriately placed on Regular
Council Meeting Agendas, based on content, by the Town Manager or Town Clerk.
         (a)   Public comment on non-agendized items;
         (b)   Public hearing;
         (c)   Consent agenda;
         (d)   Reports; Town Manager’s report;
         (e)   General business;          
         (f)   Consideration of additional Special Session(s); and
         (g)   Adjournment.
      (3)   When Council holds a Study Session or Special Council meeting, the
following agenda items shall be appropriately placed on the agenda by the Town
Manager or Town Clerk based on content:
         (a)   Call to order;
         (b)   Roll call;
         (c)   Pledge of Allegiance;
         (d)   Invocation;
         (e)   Public comment on non-agendized items;
         (f)   Discussion only items;
         (g)   Action items (Special Meetings only); and
         (h)   Adjournment.
   (E)   Modifications to the agenda.
      (1)   The presiding officer or any Councilmember may request a change in
the order of the agenda items which, if approved by a majority of the Council,
shall be granted.
      (2)   An agenda item may be continued to a date certain or postponed
indefinitely by motion and approval by a majority of the members present who
have not declared a conflict of interest.
(Ord. 09-49, passed 4-7-2009; Am. Ord. 10-77, passed 10-5-2010; Am. Ord. 11-89,
passed 10-18-2011; Am. Ord. 13-99, passed 9-17-2013; Am. Ord. 15-116, passed 9-
15-2015; Am. Ord. 16- 125, passed 4-5-2016; Am. Ord. 18-142, passed 10-16-2018;
Am. Ord. 20-151, passed 1-21-2020; Am. Ord. 20-154, passed 9-15-2020; Am. Ord.
21-172, passed 9-21-2021; Am. Ord. 23-195, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 30.106 DECORUM.
   (A)   The presiding officer shall preserve the decorum of the meeting.
   (B)   While the Town Council is in session, all persons shall conduct
themselves with reasonable decorum. Any person who is disorderly or who
persistently disrupts the business meeting so far as to interfere with the
proper conduct of the business may be ordered by the presiding officer to be
removed from the meeting place. At such time, the presiding officer may call a
recess.
   (C)   If the presiding officer fails to act on a matter of decorum, Council
may, by majority approval of a motion, require the presiding officer to act.
(Ord. 09-49, passed 4-7-2009; Am. Ord. 15-116, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 30.107 TIME OF ADJOURNMENT.
   It is the policy of the town that all Study Sessions, Special Meetings, and
Regular Meetings shall be adjourned no later than 3-1/2 hours from the
scheduled start time. These times shall be referred to as the normal times of
adjournment. At or before the normal time of adjournment, the presiding officer
shall ask for a motion to continue or adjourn the meeting.
(Ord. 09-49, passed 4-7-2009; Am. Ord. 15-114, passed 9-1-2015; Am. Ord. 18-
142, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 30.108 AGENDA PACKETS.
   (A)    Citizen Committee and Council agenda packets (defined as the agendas
and any supporting documents) are to be made available at the Town Clerk’s
office and the town’s web site (www.dhaz.gov). Hard copies of the agendas only
will be available at all Citizen Committee and Council meetings on a first
come, first served basis.
   (B)   A digital copy of the agenda packets are to be emailed to
Councilmembers no later than the Thursday 6:00 p.m. prior to Tuesday Council
meetings, or as far in advance as possible for special or emergency Council
meetings. Additionally, a hard copy of the agenda packet will be available at
Town Hall in a place specified by the Town Manager for Town Councilmembers by
the same time.
   (C)   During regular business hours, town citizens may request (by telephone
call or email to Town Clerk) at least 26 hours before a regular/special meeting
or study session one free hard copy of any agenda packet for a Council meeting
or Citizen Committee meetings. A requesting citizen's free hard copy of agenda
packets shall be available during normal business hours for retrieval at least
24 hours after their request.
(Ord. 09-49, passed 4-7-2009; Am. Ord. 18-142, passed 10-16-2018; Am. Ord. 21-
173, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 30.109 PROTOCOL AT MEETINGS.
   (A)   Preamble. Members of the Town Council are elected to represent their
voting constituents and the citizens of Dewey-Humboldt. As such, each member of
Council has the right to express his or her representation without being
assailed in regard to that representation or in regards to their own personal
political affiliations, religious preference, marital status, sexual
orientation. Further, members of Council shall not be the subject of
retribution from the Chair in any manner or form or in a manner of retribution
for holding their view in all matters that come before Council. In addition,
the right of a member to address the City Council on a question of personal
privilege shall be limited to cases in which the member's integrity, character,
or motives are assailed, questioned or impugned.
   (B)   Basic rules of order. Meetings will be conducted in accordance with
the latest edition of Robert's Rules of Order (Robert's Rules), with the
following exceptions and changes:
      (1)   In case of conflict between Robert's Rules and the constitution or
laws of the State of Arizona, the state law will prevail.
      (2)   In case of conflict between Robert's Rules and the Dewey-Humboldt
code of ordinances, the code of ordinances shall prevail.
   (C)   Procedures in general.
      (1)   The presiding officer at any meeting shall rule on any point of
order raised by a Councilmember. Only Councilmembers may raise points of order.
The presiding officer shall request advice from other members of the body or an
appointed parliamentarian before making a ruling. However, any member may, on a
point of order, call for a vote on the ruling and specify an alternative
ruling. A vote shall then be called on the point of order and, if a majority of
members vote in favor of the proposed alternative ruling, the presiding officer
shall defer to the opinion of the majority of the members for that meeting of
the body. Otherwise the presiding officer's ruling shall stand. The presiding
officer may impose reasonable limits to the time allotted for each member to
speak during the discussion phase of the proceedings, but if additional time is
requested by the member, the presiding officer shall ask for a vote to extend
additional time, and if a majority of members agree, the time shall be granted.
      (2)   The presiding officer shall not use his position as Chair of the
meeting to debate other Councilmembers in a condescending manner and shall
avoid questioning the motives of others or using indecorous language.
   (D)   Meeting operational procedures.
      (1)   A Councilmember desiring to speak shall address the presiding
officer and, upon recognition, shall confine his or her comments to the agenda
item, avoid discussion of personalities and indecorous language and refrain
from personal attacks and verbal abuse.
      (2)   A Councilmember or the presiding officer who desires to ask a
question of staff shall address the question to the Town Manager who shall
address the question or may designate another staff member to address the
question. Councilmembers shall not berate or admonish staff members or the Town
Manager.
      (3)   A Councilmember who has been recognized and given the floor, shall
not be interrupted while speaking unless called to order by the presiding
officer; a point of order is raised by another member; or the speaker chooses
to yield the floor. If a Councilmember is called to order, that member shall
immediately cease speaking until the question of order is settled by a vote of
Council. If ruled to be in order, the member shall be permitted to proceed. If
ruled out of order, the member shall remain silent or may make additional
remarks only in compliance with Council rules.
      (4)   The Mayor and Councilmembers shall comply with the Arizona open
meeting law and confine their questions, comments and discussions to the agenda
item under consideration by Council.
      (5)   The Mayor and every Councilmember have a duty to vote and shall
vote on all matters except a matter involving his or her own official conduct
or where he or she declares a conflict of interest, whether actual or apparent.
A Councilmember who declares a conflict of interest shall leave the dais, not
participate in the discussion, and refrain from influencing the votes of the
remaining Councilmembers. A failure to vote or a voluntary abstention shall
count as an "aye" vote unless the Councilmember has declared a conflict of
interest.
      (6)   All motions require a second to be considered by Council. The
Councilmember seconding a motion is not required to vote or speak in favor of
the motion. If there is no second, the motion fails for lack of a second.
      (7)   Except as provided in division (D)(9), a Councilmember may change
his or her opinion or vote at any time up and until the vote is taken and the
final result is announced.
      (8)   At the request of any Councilmember, a roll call vote shall be
taken. Councilmembers shall not explain their vote during the roll call but
shall respond either yea or nay to the question.
      (9)   After a decision on a motion, any Councilmember who voted with the
majority may move to reconsider the item during the same meeting at which the
decision being reconsidered was made. Once a motion to reconsider has been
approved by majority vote, the original motion may again be discussed. After
discussion, a revote on the original motion is taken. No more than one
reconsideration of an item shall be permitted without unanimous consent of the
Council.
      (10)   During a meeting, the Mayor or a Councilmember may propose a short
intermission or recess by moving to recess for a specified length of time. A
motion to recess may be made while business is pending; shall not interrupt a
speaker; must be seconded; is not debatable; can only be amended to change the
length of the recess; cannot be reconsidered; and requires a majority vote for
approval. The length of time for the recess shall not detract from finishing
the meeting agenda within the limits set forth in §
30.107.
      (11)   An act or motion to suspend the Council rules requires a majority
vote of the Council for approval and shall not be made while another motion is
pending unless it directly applies to the pending motion.
   (E)   Understanding Council's intent to receive public comments prior to
voting on any matter on which Council will make a decision, the presiding
officer shall allow public comments on all such matters subject to the
following:
      (1)   Prior to receiving public comments on an item, the presiding
officer shall ensure Council’s questions and concerns have been addressed by
asking if there are other Council questions or concerns.
      (2)   No individual member of the public shall comment more than once on
any item.
      (3)    Comments shall be limited to three minutes per person per item.
      (4)   Without consent from a majority of Councilmembers, the public
comment period for each item shall be no more than 15 minutes.
      (5)   No public comments are permitted on executive session items.
      (6)   Public comments are permitted during all types of Council sessions
without motion of any Councilmembers on all items except executive session
items.
   (F)   Changes to the rules of order. Additional exceptions to Robert’s Rules
may be incorporated into the Town Council’s rules and procedures at any time by
formally amending this chapter, provided they are consistent with the laws of
the State of Arizona. Amendments to any motion may be made according to the
basic Robert’s Rules.
(Ord. 09-49, passed 4-7-2009; Am. Ord. 15-111, passed 3-3-2015; Am. Ord. 15-
116, passed 9-15-2015; Am. Ord. 19-148, passed 10-15-2019)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN ORGANIZATIONS AND DEPARTMENTS
Section
Departments
   
31.01   Magistrate's Court
Boards, Commission and Citizen Committees
   
31.15   General provisions
   
31.16   Organization and conduct
   
31.17   Appointments
   
31.18   Vacancy of office
   
31.19   Board, commission, and Citizen Committee duty of loyalty to the Town
Council
   
31.20   [Reserved]
   
31.21   Planning and Zoning Advisory Commission
   
31.22   Board of Adjustment
   
31.23   [Reserved]
   
31.24   [Reserved]
   
31.25   [Reserved]
   
31.26   Open Space and Trails Committee
DEPARTMENTS
§ 31.01 MAGISTRATE'S COURT.
   (A)   Effective July 1, 2005, the town shall be responsible for the
provision of court services within the jurisdictional limits of the town.
   (B)   Therefore, and so as to be ready to meet the obligations and
responsibilities as stated in division (A) above, the Town Council of the town
hereby authorizes the creation of the Dewey-Humboldt Magistrate's Court.
   (C)   This court shall be so established as to exercise any and all judicial
activities regularly undertaken by such courts and incident thereto.
(Ord. 05-07, passed 3-15-2005)
Cross-reference:
   Town Magistrate, powers and duties, see §
30.032
BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND CITIZEN COMMITTEES
§ 31.15 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   This section is intended to describe the function of boards,
commissions, and committees (each a "Citizen Committee") other than Council
Member Committees (see §
30.019). These general rules apply unless the motion, resolution, or ordinance
creating the board, commission, or committee explicitly provides otherwise.
   (B)   The town ordinance authorizes the Town Council to establish additional
advisory boards, commissions, and Citizen Committees to assist the Council in
its policy decisions. The Town Council has the inherent power to create Citizen
Committees.
   (C)   Town boards, commissions, and Citizen Committees do not set or
establish town policy or administrative direction to town staff.
   (D)   Appointments to boards, commissions, and Citizen Committees are made
by motion of the Council after the review and consideration of any applicants.
   (E)   The terms BOARD and COMMISSION may be used interchangeably. Boards and
commissions typically have broader policy and advisory responsibilities than
Citizen Committees, which typically have much more focused advisory roles to
the Council.
(Ord. 09-49, passed 4-7-2009)
§ 31.16 ORGANIZATION AND CONDUCT.
   (A)   There are two classes of official town Citizen Committees: ad hoc and
standing Citizen Committees.
      AD HOC CITIZEN COMMITTEES. Formed by motion or resolution of the Council,
having the composition, responsibilities, and schedule adopted by Council on
motion or resolution. Such AD HOC CITIZEN COMMITTEES are only appropriate for
addressing matters having a short duration or specific project focus, and will
automatically terminate as defined in their commissioning documents (or when
the work is complete, if no time is stated) without further Council action,
unless extended by Council.
      STANDING CITIZEN COMMITTEES. Formed by ordinance of the Council amending
this document, having the composition, by-laws, and responsibilities adopted by
Council in such ordinance. STANDING CITIZEN COMMITTEES are only appropriate for
addressing matters having a continuing duration or recurring project focus, and
will terminate only upon Council action.
   (B)   Each board, commission, or Citizen Committee must elect one of its
members to serve as the presiding officer or chair at the first meeting of an
ad hoc Citizen Committee, or on the first meeting of the year for a board,
commission, or standing Citizen Committee.
   (C)   Boards, commissions, and Citizen Committees shall hold regular and
special meetings as may be required. The conduct of board, commission, and
Citizen Committee meetings are governed by the same rules of policy and
procedure as the Town
Council specifically including the requirements to have the Pledge of
Allegiance and invocation at each meeting as set forth in Dewey-Humboldt Town
Code §
30.105(D)(1).
   (D)   Boards, Commissions, and Citizen Committees should comply with all
applicable open meeting and conflict-of-interest laws of Arizona.
   (E)   Board, commission, and Citizen Committee members are expected to
adhere to the Town Council’s Code of Ethics.
(Ord. 09-49, passed 4-7-2009; Am. Ord. 21-172, passed 9-21-2021; Am. Ord. 23-
195, passed 7-18-2023)
§ 31.17 APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   All voting members of town boards, commissions, or Citizen Committees
shall be appointed by Council action (by motion or resolution) and shall serve
at the pleasure of the Town Council.
   (B)   The motion, ordinance, or resolution establishing boards, commissions,
or Citizen Committees shall include the number of members, the purpose for
which the board, commission, or Citizen Committee is organized, and the duties
thereof.
   (C)   Except the members of the ad hoc Steering Committee formed as part of
the public participation plan for any update of the town's general plan,
members of town boards and commissions shall be residents of the town. Up to
25% of the members of the ad hoc Steering Committee formed as part of the
public participation plan may be voting members of the General Plan Steering
Committee even if non-residents of the town as long as, while serving as a
member of the General Plan Steering Committee, they are owners of commercial
facilities conducting a commercial enterprise within the town limits. On all
citizen committees or boards other than the General Plan Steering Committee,
non-residents may be members of citizen committees but are non-voting members.
   (D)   All appointees should bring the skill, integrity, knowledge, interest
and commitment to evaluating issues in the broad context of the public
interest. To the extent possible, appointees should be selected to represent a
broad cross-section of the community relative to the purpose of the agency.
   (E)   Appointees may serve an unlimited number of consecutive terms on a
given board, commission or Citizen Committee (except where specifically
limited), at the discretion of the Town Council.
   (F)   The Town Clerk shall provide application forms and maintain a
composite listing of all applications on file which have been received.
Applications shall be retained for one year.
(Ord. 09-49, passed 4-7-2009; Am. Ord. 16-127, passed 4-5-2016; Am. Ord. 17-
135, passed 6-20-2017; Am. Ord. 21-163, passed 5-4-2021)
§ 31.18 VACANCY OF OFFICE.
   (A)   If a member of a board, commission, or Citizen Committee (1) is absent
from three regular meetings of the board or commission, consecutively or within
a calendar quarter, and the chair thereof recommends removal, (2) has violated
the Code of Ethics, or (3) ceases to be a qualified elector and resident of the
town (in the case of a board, commission, or executive members of a committee),
that office shall become vacant upon the declaration of Council. The Council
may, for good cause or upon recommendation of the Chair of the agency,
determine that a vacancy has not been created.
   (B)   Resignations may be submitted at any time to the Town Council either
directly or through the board, commission, or Citizen Committee chair.
Resignations are effective upon submittal.
   (C)   Upon notice of a vacancy, town staff shall initiate an appointment
procedure similar to that for Council (described in §
30.016), leading to a recommendation to the Town Council for a successor of the
vacancy and the successor will be appointed to serve only to the date of the
unexpired term. The commission, board, or committee appointment process differs
from the Council appointment process in that, (1) the call for applications may
be advertised (if requested by the Council, commission, board, or committee),
and (2) the chair of the commission, board, or committee will participate as a
member of the interview panel.
(Ord. 09-49, passed 4-7-2009)
§ 31.19 BOARD, COMMISSION, AND CITIZEN COMMITTEE DUTY OF LOYALTY TO THE TOWN
COUNCIL.
   (A)   Boards, commissions, and Citizen Committees serve as advisory agencies
to Council, and have no independent authority (except as provided by State law
or town ordinance). Such agencies of the town may perform the duties outlined
herein, have projects assigned by Council, may initiate independent activities
(so long as such activities do not involve tasking of other governmental
agencies in the name of the town, out of state travel, or retention of
consultants), and may report on a regular basis to Council on the activities of
the agency.
   (B)   When acting in their appointed roles, these agencies should act in
accordance with the Planning and Zoning Handbook published by the Arizona
Department of Commerce (Third Edition, October 2004), with reasonable
accommodation to apply the principles contained therein to agencies other than
the Planning and Zoning Commission and the Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. 09-49, passed 4-7-2009; Am. Ord. 10-71, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 31.20 [RESERVED].
§ 31.21 PLANNING AND ZONING ADVISORY COMMISSION.
   The Planning and Zoning Advisory Commission (the “P&Z Commission”) shall be
formed of seven members, all of whom must be residents of the town. Each member
will be appointed to a four-year term, unless filling a vacancy appointment (in
which case the term is the balance of the term of the person replaced). The P&Z
Commission may set its own meeting schedule, but meetings will be held at least
quarterly, or at the request of the Mayor, a Councilmember, or an applicant.
The P&Z Commission may adopt its own rules of procedure, but the rules must
include Robert’s Rules of Order. The P&Z Commission has the duty to diligently
perform all the duties allocated to the P&Z Commission by Arizona law or town
ordinance.
(Ord. 09-49, passed 4-7-2009; Am. Ord. 21-167, passed 6-15-2021; Am. Ord. 23-
196, passed 9-19-2023)
§ 31.22 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   The Board of Adjustment (BOA) is hereby established as further set forth in
§
153.021 of this code.
(Ord. 09-49, passed 4-7-2009; Am. Ord. 12-92, passed 7-10-2012)
§ 31.23 [RESERVED].
§ 31.24 [RESERVED].
§ 31.25 [RESERVED].
§ 31.26 OPEN SPACE AND TRAILS COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The Open Space and Trails Committee (OSAT) shall be a standing
committee comprised of five executive members and any number of associate
members. Executive members are responsible to vote on matters before the OSAT
and constitute a quorum, but all members (associate and executive) have a right
to prepare items for the agenda. Executive members must be residents of the
town, are appointed by the Council, and serve two-year terms; while associate
members are appointed by the executive members (subject to Council veto), need
not be residents, and may serve for an indefinite duration. OSAT members are
subject to reappointment without limit. The OSAT may set its own meeting
schedule, but meetings will be held at least quarterly or at the request of
Council. The OSAT may adopt its own rules of procedure, but such rules must
include Robert's Rules of Order and shall observe Arizona Open Meeting law. The
Committee may receive direction and assistance from staff through Council. The
OSAT has the duty to diligently provide volunteer services to the town and its
citizens by interacting with the community, other similar area committees and
agencies to further the implementation of the Dewey-Humboldt Open Space and
Trails Master Plan. The OSAT shall compile findings and contact reports
associated with its activities and report on a quarterly basis to Council.
   (B)   In its duties should the OSAT Committee plan any trail, refuge area,
or other related facility within the vicinity of Chaparral Gulch, Council
suggests that a facility be named in memory of the tragic passing of Emmett
Trapp on August 4, 2010.
(Ord. 10-75, passed 10-5-2010)
CHAPTER 32: TOWN POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Intergovernmental agreements
   
32.02   Residential anti-displacement and relocation assistance plan
   
32.03   Right to bear firearms on municipal premises, town meetings
   
32.04   Records retention and disposition
Policy and Administration
   
32.15   Definitions
   
32.16   Town Council policies
   
32.17   Departmental procedures; Municipal Court approval; public inspection
   
32.18   Administrative procedures; approval and implementation
Emergency Management
   
32.30   National Incident Management System adoption
   
32.31   Authorization to prepare documents
   
32.32   Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan
   
32.33   Yavapai Multi-Jurisdictional Hazard Mitigation Plan
Rural Economic Development Initiative
   
32.45   Commitment to support the Rural Economic Development Initiative
   
32.46   Policy authority
   
32.47   Authorization to prepare documents
Claims Against the Town; Notice; Procedure
   
32.75   Authority
   
32.76   Procedure for filing claim
Cross-reference:
   Code of ethics and conduct, see
Ch. 35
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   In the course of the operations of an incorporated municipality it
becomes necessary and appropriate from time to time to enter into agreements
with other governmental entities, their agencies and departments, toward the
provision and obtaining of certain services, materials and equipment.
   (B)   Through such agreements it is the intention of the parties to enhance
efficiency, quality and the general availability of obtainable services while
decreasing cost and duplication.
   (C)   Therefore, the Town Council hereby authorizes the entering into of
such intergovernmental agreements as are approved by that Town Council and
deemed necessary, beneficial and appropriate for the town, whether such
agreements be with the agencies and departments of the federal government,
state, county, or other incorporated municipalities.
(Ord. 05-03, passed 2-15-2005)
§ 32.02 RESIDENTIAL ANTI-DISPLACEMENT AND RELOCATION ASSISTANCE PLAN.
   (A)   The town will replace all occupied and vacant occupiable low/moderate
income dwelling units demolished or converted to a use other than a low/
moderate income housing as a direct result of activities assisted with funds
provided under the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended.
   (B)   All replacement housing will be provided within three years of the
commencement of the demolition or rehabilitation relating to conversion.
   (C)   (1)   Before obligating or expanding funds that will directly result
in such demolition or conversion, the town will make public and submit to the
ADOH CDBG Program the following information in writing:
         (a)   A description of the proposed activity;
         (b)   The general location on a map and approximate number of dwelling
units by size (number of bedrooms) that will be demolished or converted to a
use other than as LM dwelling units as a direct result of the assisted
activity;
         (c)   A time schedule for the commencement and completion of the
demolition or conversion;
         (d)   The general location on a map and approximate number of dwelling
units by size (number of bedrooms) that will be provided as replacement
dwelling units;
         (e)   The source of funding and a time schedule for the provision of
replacement dwelling units; and
         (f)   The basis for concluding that each replacement dwelling unit
will remain a LM dwelling unit for at least ten years from the date of initial
occupancy.
      (2)   Information demonstrating that any proposed replacement of housing
units with smaller dwelling units (e.g., a two-bedroom unit with 2 one-bedroom
units), or any proposed replacement of efficiency or single-room occupancy
(SRO) units with units of a different size, is appropriate and consistent with
the housing needs and priorities identified in the State of Arizona's approved
Consolidated Plan (CP).
   (D)   The town will provide relocation assistance, as described in the Act
and implementing regulations, to each LM household displaced by demolition of
housing or by the conversion of a LM dwelling unit to another use as a direct
result of assisted activities.
   (E)   Consistent with the goals and objectives of activities assisted under
the Act, the town will take the following steps to minimize displacement of
persons from their homes.
      (1)   Coordinate code enforcement with rehabilitation and housing
assistance programs;
      (2)   Evaluate housing codes and rehabilitation of standards in
reinvestment areas to prevent undue financial burden on established owners and
tenants;
      (3)   Stage rehabilitation of apartment units to allow tenants to remain
in the building/complex during and after the rehabilitation, working with empty
units first;
      (4)   Arrange for facilities to house persons who must be relocated
temporarily during rehabilitation;
      (5)   Adopt policies to identify and mitigate displacement resulting from
intensive public investment neighborhoods;
      (6)   Adopt policies which provide reasonable protections for tenants
faced with conversion to a condominium or cooperative;
      (7)   Adopt tax assessment policies, such as deferred tax payment plans,
to reduce impact of increasing property tax assessments on lower income owner-
occupants or tenants in revitalizing areas; and
      (8)   Establish counseling centers to provide homeowners and tenants with
information on assistance available to help them remain in their neighborhood
in the face of revitalization pressures.
(Res. 07-40, passed 4-17-2007)
§ 32.03 RIGHT TO BEAR FIREARMS ON MUNICIPAL PREMISES, TOWN MEETINGS.
   No person lawfully entitled to carry a weapon shall be prevented from doing
so within the municipal buildings or to town meetings.
(Res. 07-35, passed 3-20-2007)
§ 32.04 RECORDS RETENTION AND DISPOSITION.
   (A)   The Arizona State Records Retention and Disposition Schedules, All
Office Administration - Schedule Number 000-08-01 and All Agency/Division
Management - Schedule Number 000-08-3, are hereby adopted to provide for the
efficient and effective control of all town records.
   (B)   The Town Clerk shall be the Custodian of Records and liaison to the
Arizona Department of Library, Archives, and Public Records.
(Res. 08-62, passed 11-18-2008)
POLICY AND ADMINISTRATION
§ 32.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES. These are designed to be applied town-wide and to
be a written definition of those powers and duties granted to the Town Manager
under ordinance (and code, if codified).
   DEPARTMENTAL PROCEDURES. These are specific written procedures implemented
by a town department or office that are designed to implement the powers and
duties granted that department or delegated in accordance with town ordinance
by the Town Manager. DEPARTMENTAL PROCEDURES are not designed for town-wide
implementation but to address issues applicable to a particular department.
   TOWN COUNCIL POLICIES. A TOWN COUNCIL POLICY is a written statement of
policy adopted by the Town Council that outlines and defines town matters
within the powers and duties granted to the Town Council under state law and
ordinance (and code, if codified). A TOWN COUNCIL POLICY shall be in writing
and may be adopted by motion. A TOWN COUNCIL POLICY may be modified within the
exclusive determination of the Town Council.
(Ord. 08-42, passed 9-2-2008)
§ 32.16 TOWN COUNCIL POLICIES.
   (A)   Town Council policies shall be in writing and may be placed on the
agenda and acted on in the same manner as other matters before the Town
Council. Town Council policies shall be in conformance with state law and
ordinances (and codes, if codified) of the town. The Town Attorney shall
approve as to form Town Council policies. Citizen comments will be encouraged
at the time of consideration of adoption of a Town Council policy.
   (B)   The Town Manager or his or her designee shall maintain a codification
of all policies adopted by the Town Council, with copies available for public
inspection at the office of the Town Clerk.
(Ord. 08-42, passed 9-2-2008)
§ 32.17 DEPARTMENTAL PROCEDURES; MUNICIPAL COURT APPROVAL; PUBLIC INSPECTION.
   (A)   The presiding judge of Superior Court for Yavapai County shall approve
applicable Municipal Court procedures in accordance with the administrative
orders promulgated by the Arizona Supreme Court.
   (B)   Copies of departmental procedures shall be on file with the adopting
department or office and shall be available for public inspection.
(Ord. 08-42, passed 9-2-2008)
§ 32.18 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES; APPROVAL AND IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   Administrative procedures shall be developed by the Town Manager or
his or her designee to provide written statements on those powers and duties
granted to the Town Manager under prior Town Council action.
   (B)   Prior to implementation, the procedure shall be reviewed by the Town
Attorney as being within the powers and duties of the Town Manager or his or
her designee.
   (C)   Not less than ten days prior to the implementation of an
administrative procedure, the Town Manager shall provide written notice to the
Town Council of the proposed revisions or new administrative procedure. The
Council shall retain the right in its sole discretion and judgment to amend,
repeal, or modify any of the above-designated regulations.
   (D)   Upon approval by the Town Manager or Town Council, copies of the
administrative procedure shall be available for public inspection at the office
of the Town Clerk.
   (E)   The Town Manager shall maintain a codification of all administrative
procedures promulgated by the Town Manager or Town Council.
(Ord. 08-42, passed 9-2-2008)
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
§ 32.30 NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ADOPTION.
   It shall be the public policy of the Town of Dewey-Humboldt to adopt the
National Incident Management System (NIMS) concept of emergency planning and
unified command. It shall further be the policy of this town to train public
officials responsible for emergency management.
(Res. 08-56, passed 9-2-2008)
§ 32.31 AUTHORIZATION TO PREPARE DOCUMENTS.
   The Town Manager, Town Clerk, Town Attorney, and any other necessary persons
are hereby authorized to prepare the agreements, forms, and instruments
contemplated to be used by the town in implementing the provisions of the NIMS.
(Res. 08-56, passed 9-2-2008)
§ 32.32 MULTI-HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   The Dewey-Humboldt Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan shall be adopted as follows.
   (A)   The Plan is hereby adopted as an official plan of the Town of Dewey-
Humboldt.
   (B)   The Plan shall be implemented, monitored, and maintained by the
officials and staff designated in the Plan for a period of five years with the
support of the resolution codified herein.
   (C)   Future revisions and Plan maintenance actions required by the Disaster
Mitigation Act of 2000 and FEMA are hereby adopted as part of the resolution
codified herein for a period of five years from the date of the resolution
codified herein.
(Res. 10-79, passed 3-2-2010)
§ 32.33 YAVAPAI MULTI-JURISDICTIONAL HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   The 2023 update of the Yavapai Multi-Jurisdictional Hazard Mitigation Plan
shall be adopted to meet the requirements of the Disaster Mitigation Act of
2000 as follows.
   (A)   The Plan is hereby adopted because the Town of Dewey-Humboldt has
experienced damage from natural and human-caused hazards, such as flooding,
land/mudslides, severe wind, wildfire, and winter storms, possibly resulting in
damage and/or loss of property and life, economic hardship and threats to
public health and safety.
   (B)   The primary purpose of the Plan is to identify hazards that affect the
town, assess the vulnerability and risk posed by those hazards to community-
wide human and structural assets, developing strategies for mitigation of those
identified hazards, present future maintenance procedures for the Plan, and
document the planning process.
   (C)   The Plan recommends several hazard mitigation actions or projects that
will provide mitigation for specific hazards that affect the town, in order to
protect people and property from loss associated with those hazards.
   (D)   Upon approval of the Plan and approval from the Arizona Division of
Emergency Management and the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the town
eligible to apply for federal mitigation grant funding.
(Res. 12-101, passed 3-6-2012; Am. Res. 24-200, passed 1-16-2024)
RURAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVE
§ 32.45 COMMITMENT TO SUPPORT THE RURAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVE.
   It shall be the policy of the Town of Dewey-Humboldt to support economic
development activities that are consistent with the town's character as a low-
density residential community, and to support for the Rural Economic
Development Initiative (REDI).
(Res. 08-59, passed 11-4-2008)
§ 32.46 POLICY AUTHORITY.
   The town represents a cross-section of the community with legal authority to
raise and administer public funds and to set and/or implement policy must be in
place, and hereby guarantees to follow necessary procedures.
(Res. 08-59, passed 11-4-2008)
§ 32.47 AUTHORIZATION TO PREPARE DOCUMENTS.
   The Town Manager, Town Clerk, Town Attorney, and any other necessary persons
are hereby authorized to prepare the agreements, forms and instruments
contemplated to be used by the town in achieving REDI accreditation.
(Res. 08-59, passed 11-4-2008)
CLAIMS AGAINST THE TOWN; NOTICE; PROCEDURE
§ 32.75 AUTHORITY.
   Any person who has a claim for damages or monetary compensation against the
town, any town employee, or any town official shall file and serve his or her
claim in accordance with the provisions of A.R.S. § 12-821.01, and any
amendments thereto which may from time to time be adopted and approved by the
Arizona legislature.
(Ord. 08-43, passed 9-16-2008)
§ 32.76 PROCEDURE FOR FILING CLAIM.
   (A)   Any claim required to be filed and served on the town, any town
employee, or any town official shall be presented to the town or the town
employee on a claim form prescribed by the Town Manager with the Town Clerk's
office, within 180 days after the event, occurrence, or transaction complained
of, or within 180 days of the date of accrual of the cause of action out of
which the claimant's damages allegedly occurred.
   (B)   The claim form may be filed and served on the town by certified mail
with signed return receipt, or in person at Town Hall during normal business
hours.
   (C)   The filing, service, and denial of any claim required by this
subchapter are prerequisites to the filing of a civil lawsuit against the town,
any town employee, or any town official (in their capacity as town employee or
town official).
(Ord. 08-43, passed 9-16-2008)
CHAPTER 33: PERSONNEL
Section
   
33.01   Employee compensation and benefits
   
33.02   457 Deferred Compensation Plan, adopted
   
33.03   401 Money Purchase Retirement Plan, adopted
§ 33.01 EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS.
   Employee compensation and benefits shall be as set forth in the town
administrative regulations.
(Ord. 16-129, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 33.02 457 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN, ADOPTED.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts the Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plan") in
the form of the ICMA Retirement Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan and
Trust, referred to as Appendix A attached to Resolution No. 05-13. The Plan
shall be maintained for the exclusive benefit of eligible employees and their
beneficiaries.
   (B)   The town hereby executes the Declaration of Trust of the Vantage Trust
Company, attached to Resolution No. 05-13 as Appendix B, intending this
execution to be operative with respect to any retirement or deferred
compensation plan subsequently established by the town, if the assets of the
plan are to be invested in the Vantage Trust Company.
   (C)   The town hereby agrees to serve as trustee under the Plan and to
invest funds held under the Plan in the ICMA Retirement Trust.
   (D)   The Town Manager shall be the coordinator for the Plan; shall receive
reports, notices and the like from the ICMA Retirement Corporation or the
Vantage Trust Company; shall cast, on behalf of the town, any required votes
under the Vantage Trust Company; administrative duties to carry out the Plan
may be assigned to the appropriate departments; and is authorized to execute
all necessary agreements with the ICMA Retirement Corporation incidental to the
administration of the Plan.
(Res. 05-13, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 33.03 401 MONEY PURCHASE RETIREMENT PLAN, ADOPTED.
   (A)   The town hereby establishes or has established a Money Purchase
Retirement Plan (the "Plan") in the form of the ICMA Retirement Corporation
Governmental Money Purchase Plan and Trust, pursuant to the specific provisions
of the adoption agreement attached to Resolution No. 05-12.
      (1)   The Plan shall be maintained for the exclusive benefit of eligible
employees and their beneficiaries.
      (2)   The Plan shall be a Social Security Replacement Plan.
   (B)   The town hereby executes the Declaration of Trust of the ICMA
Retirement Trust, attached hereto, intending this execution to be operative
with respect to any retirement or deferred compensation plan subsequently
established by the town, if the assets of the plan are to be invested in the
ICMA Retirement Trust.
   (C)   The town hereby agrees to serve as trustee under the Plan and to
invest funds held under the Plan in the ICMA Retirement Trust.
   (D)   The Town Manager shall be the coordinator for the Plan; shall receive
reports, notices and the like from the ICMA Retirement Corporation or the ICMA
Retirement Trust; shall cast, on behalf of the town, any required votes under
the ICMA Retirement Trust; may delegate any administrative duties relating to
the Plan to appropriate departments; and is authorized to execute all necessary
agreements with the ICMA Retirement Corporation incidental to the
administration of the Plan.
(Res. 05-12, passed 6-21-2005)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCES AND TAXATION
Section
Fee Schedule
   
34.01   Fee schedule for town documents
   
34.02   Magistrate's Court fee and surcharge schedule
Tax Code
   
34.15   Privilege and use taxes
   
34.16   Tax code adopted
   
34.17   Tax code amendments
General Provisions
   
34.30   Capital Improvement Program FY 2011-2021 adoption
 
   
34.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:    Current Tax Code Amendments
FEE SCHEDULE
§ 34.01 FEE SCHEDULE FOR TOWN DOCUMENTS.
   The town hereby adopts charges for copies as follows:
   (A)   Ordinances, resolutions, reports and similar documents that have been
printed by a commercial printer or copy service: actual cost per copy plus 10%;
and
   (B)   Documents on file at the town offices: $0.25 per page.
   (C)   The following table is the fee schedule for Town professional and
general services, which town staff must collect unless otherwise directed in
this section.
Building, Engineering, and General Fees Fee
Professional Services
Building, Engineering, and General Fees                                               Fee
Professional Services
Engineering review                                                              Per   $265
                                                                                sheet
Additional reviews (after the 3rd)                                              Per   $83
                                                                                sheet
Engineer                                                                        Per   $101
                                                                                hour
Planner                                                                         Per   $58
                                                                                hour
Clerical                                                                        Per   $28
                                                                                hour
General Services
Copy fees                                                                       Per   $0.25
                                                                                sheet
CD transcription                                                                Per   $15
                                                                                CD
Initiative, recall, or referendum (A.R.S. §§ 19-141 to 19-143, 19-123, 19-201 Per   $0
(ff))                                                                           app
                                                                                Per   Actual
Ballot arguments (A.R.S. § 19-124)                                             app   external
                                                                                      costs
Candidate filing fee                                                            Per   $0
                                                                                app
Standing political committee registration fee (A.R.S. § 16-902.01)             Per   $81
                                                                                reg'n
 
   (D)   Reduced fees.
      (1)   The above fees shall be waived when the applicant is the town, the
County of Yavapai, the State of Arizona, or the United States Government, or
their dependents, agencies and divisions. This exception shall not apply to a
non-governmental lessee of governmentally-owned land. Other governmental
discounts may be negotiated through intergovernmental agreements.
      (2)   To avoid undue hardship, fees may be waived by the Town Council or
the Town Hearing Officer.
   (E)   The Town Manager is responsible to interpret and apply the foregoing
fees in light of the Report for User Fee Study dated March 2010 (on file with
the Town Clerk). A fee payer may appeal the Town Manager’s decision to the Town
Hearing Officer, but must do so within 30 days of the Town Manager’s written
decision.
(Res. 05-14, passed 7-5-2005; Am. Ord. 10-68, passed 4-20-2010; Am. Ord. 12-92,
passed 7-10-2012; Am. Ord. 22-181, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 34.02 MAGISTRATE'S COURT FEE AND SURCHARGE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Fee and surcharge schedule. The following table is the fee and
surcharge schedule for Magistrate's Court services, which town staff must
collect unless otherwise directed by the Magistrate in accordance with this
section. These fees and surcharges are in addition to any imposed by state or
other law.
Magistrate’s Court FeesFee
Magistrate’s Court                                                                             Fee
Fees
Warrants             Per warrant following a failure to appear                                   $175
Default civil        Per event in all civil traffic cases                                        $88
traffic fee
Court enhancement    Per event in all criminal cases                                             $44
fee
Court appointed      Per hour in all criminal cases where counsel has been appointed but either:
counsel fee          the defendant is later discovered to not be indigent; or the defendant      $44
                     fails to appear at a scheduled meeting with the court appointed counsel
Research in locating Per document                                                                $17
a document
Research other than
in locating a        Per hour in all criminal cases                                              $25
document
Return check fee     Per check in all criminal cases                                             $57
Deferred prosecution Per event in all cases resulting in deferred prosecution                    $88
fee
Deferred sentence
fee in cases where
the judge directs
the defendant to     Per event in all cases resulting in deferred sentence                       $88
perform a task and
report back in lieu
of punishment (not
probation)
                     Per event in all cases resulting in or from each suspension of an Arizona
Suspended license    driver’s license or privilege to drive in the State of Arizona which the  $70
                     Magistrate’s Court is required to issue as the result of failure to pay a
                     civil sanction, or a default judgment in a civil traffic matter.
Copies of any        Per page                                                                    $0.50
document
CD transcription     Per CD in all cases                                                         $15
Minimum clerk fee    Per request made to the clerk (this is a minimum charge: if the services    $17
                     exceed this charge; then no minimum clerk fee is due)
Record duplication   Per record                                                                  $17
 
   (B)   Reduced fees.
      (1)   Fees may be reduced or waived by the Magistrate to avoid injustice.
      (2)   If a person has been found by the Magistrate's Court to be
indigent, the Magistrate may reduce or waive the amount of any fee set forth in
this section based upon the individual's ability to pay.
      (3)   Nothing herein purports to grant the Magistrate the authority to
waive state mandated fees or surcharges.
   (C)   Ex post facto.  The foregoing fees and surcharges, if applied upon a
finding of guilty/responsible, cannot be imposed in a case in which the
violation occurred prior to September 17, 2010.
   (D)   Fee segregation. The foregoing fees and surcharges collected for
court-related products or services may not be used to fund other town
activities, unless specifically authorized by the Town Council. All fees
collected under this section shall be received by the Magistrate's Court in a
manner consistent with the Arizona Supreme Court Accounting Standards and shall
be deposited into the town's General Fund.
   (E)   Community service conversion. The Magistrate may convert all or part
of any fee to community service time at a rate consistent with the Magistrate's
Court community service practices.
   (F)   The amount of administrative or magistrate fees may be revised from
time to time as recommended by the Court or initiated by the Council.
(Ord. 10-67, passed 4-20-2010; Am. Ord. 10-72, passed 8-17-2010; Am. Ord. 11-
85, passed 5-17-2011)
TAX CODE
§ 34.15 PRIVILEGE AND USE TAXES.
   (A)   All activities included within ARTICLE IV - PRIVILEGE TAXES of the Tax
Code of the Townof Dewey-Humboldt, Arizona, shall have a tax rate at an amount
equal to 2% of the gross income from the taxable activities described therein;
except that the rate for § 8A-432 relating to mining shall remain unchanged (as
required by law).
   (B)   All activities included within ARTICLE VI - USE TAX of the Tax Code of
the Town of Dewey-Humboldt, Arizona, shall have a tax rate at an amount equal
to 2% of the gross income from or costs of the taxable activities described
therein.
(Ord. 10-66, passed 3-16-2010)
§ 34.16 TAX CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   That certain document known as the "Tax Code of the Town of Dewey-
Humboldt, Arizona," A.R.S. §§ 42-6051 et seq., three copies of which are on
file in the office of the Town Clerk, which document was made a public record
by Resolution No. 05-04 of the town, is hereby referred to, adopted and made a
part hereof as if fully set out in this section. Amendments are set forth
according to §
34.17.
   (B)   The provisions of this section and the tax code adopted pursuant to
this section shall become effective from and after May 1, 2005; provided
however, the tax imposed pursuant to the tax code shall not apply to contracts
entered into prior to the effective date of Ordinance No. 05-02 as specified in
this section.
(Ord. 05-02, passed 2-7-2005) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.17 TAX CODE AMENDMENTS.
   That certain document known as “The 2012-2014 Amendments to the Tax Code of
the Town of Dewey-Humboldt,” three copies of which are on file in the office of
the town clerk of the Town of Dewey-Humboldt, Arizona, which document was made
a public record by Resolution No. 23-189 of the Town of Dewey-Humboldt,
Arizona, is hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set
out in this section.
(Ord. 08-38, passed 4-1-2008; Am. Ord. 09-54, passed 8-4-2009; Am. Ord. 11-86,
passed 9-20-2011; Am. Ord. 23-190, passed 2-21-2023) Penalty, see §
34.99
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.30 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM FY 2011-2021 ADOPTION.
   That certain document entitled "Capital Improvement Program FY 2011-2021,"
attached to the resolution codified herein and expressly made a part hereof,
and as amended by the FY2011 Town Budget, is hereby adopted as the new Capital
Improvement Program of the Town of Dewey-Humboldt.
(Res. 10-74, passed 1-5-2010)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of §
34.16 shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor. Each day that a violation
continues shall be a separate offense punishable as herein above described.
   (C)   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of §
34.17 shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor. Each day that a violation
continues shall be a separate offense punishable as herein above described.
(Ord. 05-02, passed 2-7-2005; Ord. 08-38, passed 4-1-2008; Am. Ord. 11-86,
passed 9-20-2011; Am. Ord. 23-190, passed 2-21-2023)
APPENDIX A: CURRENT TAX CODE AMENDMENTS
2008 AMENDMENTS TO THE TAX CODE OF THE TOWN OF DEWEY-HUMBOLDT
Section 1. Section 8-100 of the Tax Code of the Town of Dewey-Humboldt is
amended to read:
Sec. 8-100. General definitions.
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions apply:
"Assembler" means a person who unites or combines products, wares, or articles
of manufacture so as to produce a change in form or substance of such items
without changing or altering component parts.
"Broker" means any person engaged or continuing in business who acts for
another for a consideration in the conduct of a business activity taxable under
this Chapter, and who receives for his principal all or part of the gross
income from the taxable activity.
"Business" means all activities or acts, personal or corporate, engaged in and
caused to be engaged in with the object of gain, benefit, or advantage, either
direct or indirect, but not casual activities or sales.
"Business Day" means any day of the week when the Tax Collector's office is
open for the public to conduct the Tax Collector's business.
"Casual Activity or Sale" means a transaction of an isolated nature made by a
person who neither represents himself to be nor is engaged in a business
subject to a tax imposed by this Chapter. However, no sale, rental, license for
use, or lease transaction concerning real property nor any activity entered
into by a business taxable by this Chapter shall be treated, or be exempt, as
casual. This definition shall include sales of used capital assets, provided
that the volume and frequency of such sales do not indicate that the seller
regularly engages in selling such property.
"Combined Taxes" means the sum of all applicable Arizona Transaction Privilege
and Use Taxes; all applicable transportation taxes imposed upon gross income by
this County as authorized by Article 3, Chapter 6, Title 42, Arizona Revised
Statutes; and all applicable taxes imposed by this Chapter.
"Commercial Property" is any real property, or portion of such property, used
for any purpose other than lodging or lodging space, including structures built
for lodging but used otherwise, such as model homes, apartments used as
offices, etc.
"Communications Channel" means any line, wire, cable, microwave, radio signal,
light beam, telephone, telegraph, or any other electromagnetic means of moving
a message.
"Construction Contracting" refers to the activity of a construction contractor.
"Construction Contractor" means a person who undertakes to or offers to
undertake to, or purports to have the capacity to undertake to, or submits a
bid to, or does himself or by or through others, construct, alter, repair, add
to, subtract from, improve, move, wreck, or demolish any building, highway,
road, railroad, excavation, or other structure, project, development, or
improvement to real property, or to do any part thereof. "Construction
contractor" includes subcontractors, specialty contractors, prime contractors,
and any person receiving consideration for the general supervision and/or
coordination of such a construction project except for remediation contracting.
This definition shall govern without regard to whether or not the construction
contractor is acting in fulfillment of a contract.
"Delivery (of Notice) by the Tax Collector" means "receipt (of notice) by the
taxpayer".
"Delivery, Installation, or Other Direct Customer Services" means services or
labor, excluding repair labor, provided by a taxpayer to or for his customer at
the time of transfer of tangible personal property; provided further that the
charge for such labor or service is separately billed to the customer and
maintained separately in the taxpayer's books and records.
"Engaging", when used with reference to engaging or continuing in business,
includes the exercise of corporate or franchise powers.
"Equivalent Excise Tax" means either:
   (1)   a Privilege or Use Tax levied by another Arizona municipality upon the
transaction in question, and paid either to such Arizona municipality directly
or to the vendor; or
   (2)   an excise tax levied by a political subdivision of a state other than
Arizona upon the transaction in question, and paid either to such jurisdiction
directly or to the vendor; or
   (3)   an excise tax levied by a Native American Government organized under
the laws of the federal government upon the transaction in question, and paid
either to such jurisdiction directly or to the vendor.
"Federal Government" means the United States Government, its departments and
agencies; but not including national banks or federally chartered or insured
banks, savings and loan institutions, or credit unions.
"Food" means any items intended for human consumption as defined by rules and
regulations adopted by the Department of Revenue, State of Arizona, pursuant to
A.R.S. Section 42-5106. Under no circumstances shall "food" include alcoholic
beverages or tobacco, or food items purchased for use in conversion to any form
of alcohol by distillation, fermentation, brewing, or other process.
"Hotel" means any public or private hotel, inn, hostelry, tourist home, house,
motel, rooming house, apartment house, trailer, or other lodging place within
the Town offering lodging, wherein the owner thereof, for compensation,
furnishes lodging to any transient, except foster homes, rest homes, sheltered
care homes, nursing homes, or primary health care facilities.
"Job Printing" means the activity of copying or reproducing an article by any
means, process, or method. "Job printing" includes engraving of printing
plates, embossing, copying, micrographics, and photo reproduction.
"Lessee" includes the equivalent person in a rental or licensing agreement for
all purposes of this Chapter.
"Lessor" includes the equivalent person in a rental or licensing agreement for
all purposes of this Chapter.
"Licensing (for Use)" means any agreement between the user ("licensee") and the
owner or the owner's agent ("licensor') for the use of the licensors property
whereby the licensor receives consideration, where such agreement does not
qualify as a "sale" or "lease" or "rental" agreement.
"Lodging (Lodging Space)" means any room or apartment in a hotel or any other
provider of rooms, trailer spaces, or other residential dwelling spaces; or the
furnishings or services and accommodations accompanying the use and possession
of said dwelling space, including storage or parking space for the property of
said tenant.
"Manufactured Buildings" means a manufactured home, mobile home or factory
built building, as defined in A.R.S. Section 41-2142.
"Manufacturer" means a person engaged or continuing in the business of
fabricating, producing, or manufacturing products, wares, or articles for use
from other forms of tangible personal property, imparting to such new forms,
qualities, properties, and combinations.
"Mining and Metallurgical Supplies" means all tangible personal property
acquired by persons engaged in activities defined in Section 8-432 for such
use. This definition shall not include:
   (1)   janitorial equipment and supplies.
   (2)   office equipment, office furniture, and office supplies.
   (3)   motor vehicles licensed for use upon the highways of the State.
"Modifier" means a person who reworks, changes, or adds to products, wares, or
articles of manufacture.
"Nonprofit Entity" means any entity organized and operated exclusively for
charitable purposes, or operated by the Federal Government, the State, or any
political subdivision of the State.
"Occupancy (of Real Property)" means any occupancy or use, or any right to
occupy or use, real property including any improvements, rights, or interests
in such property.
"Out-of-Town Sale" means the sale of tangible personal property and job
printing if all of the following occur:
   (1)   transference of title and possession occur without the Town; and
   (2)   the stock from which such personal property was taken was not within
the corporate limits of the Town; and
   (3)   the order is received at a permanent business location of the seller
located outside the Town; which location is used for the substantial and
regular conduct of such business sales activity. In no event shall the place of
business of the buyer be determinative of the situs of the receipt of the
order.
   For the purpose of this definition it does not matter that all other indicia
of business occur within the Town, including, but not limited to, accounting,
invoicing, payments, centralized purchasing, and supply to out-of-Town
storehouses and out-of-Town retail branch outlets from a primary storehouse
within the Town.
"Out-of-State Sale" means the sale of tangible personal property and job
printing if all of the following occur:
   (1)   The order is placed from without the State of Arizona; and
   (2)   the property is delivered to the buyer at a location outside the
State; and
   (3)   the property is purchased for use outside the State.
"Owner-Builder" means an owner or lessor of real property who, by himself or by
or through others, constructs or has constructed or reconstructs or has
reconstructed any improvement to real property.
"Person" means an individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
corporation, estate, trust, receiver, syndicate, broker, the Federal
Government, this State, or any political subdivision or agency of this State.
For the purposes of this Chapter, a person shall be considered a distinct and
separate person from any general or limited partnership or joint venture or
other association with which such person is affiliated. A subsidiary
corporation shall be considered a separate person from its parent corporation
for purposes of taxation of transactions with its parent corporation.
"Prosthetic" means any of the following tangible personal property if such
items are prescribed or recommended by a licensed podiatrist, chiropractor,
dentist, physician or surgeon, naturopath, optometrist, osteopathic physician
or surgeon, psychologist, hearing aid dispenser, physician assistant, nurse
practitioner or veterinarian:
   (1)   any man-made device for support or replacement of a part of the body,
or to increase acuity of one of the senses. Such items include: prescription
eyeglasses; contact lenses; hearing aids; artificial limbs or teeth; neck,
back, arm, leg, or similar braces.
   (2)   insulin, insulin syringes, and glucose test strips sold with or
without a prescription.
   (3)   hospital beds, crutches, wheelchairs, similar home health aids, or
corrective shoes.
   (4)   drugs or medicine, including oxygen.
   (5)   equipment used to generate, monitor, or provide health support
systems, such as respiratory equipment, oxygen concentrator, dialysis machine.
   (6)   durable medical equipment which has a federal health care financing
administration common procedure code, is designated reimbursable by Medicare,
can withstand repeated use, is primarily and customarily used to serve a
medical purpose, is generally not useful to a person in the absence of illness
or injury and is appropriate for use in the home.
"Qualifying Community Health Center"
   (1)   means an entity that is recognized as nonprofit under Section 501(c)
(3) of the United States Internal Revenue Code, that is a community-based,
primary care clinic that has a community-based board of directors and that is
either:
      (a)   the sole provider of primary care in the community.
      (b)   a nonhospital affiliated clinic that is located in a federally
designated medically underserved area in this State.
   (2)   includes clinics that are being constructed as qualifying community
health centers.
"Qualifying Health Care Organization" means an entity that is recognized as
nonprofit under Section 501(c) of the United States Internal Revenue Code and
that uses, saves or invests at least eighty percent (80%) of all monies that it
receives from all sources each year only for health and medical related
educational and charitable services, as documented by annual financial audits
prepared by an independent certified public accountant, performed according to
generally accepted accounting standards and filed annually with the Arizona
Department of Revenue. Monies that are used, saved or invested to lease,
purchase or construct a facility for health and medical related education and
charitable services are included in the eighty percent (80%) requirement.
"Qualifying Hospital" means any of the following:
   (1)   a licensed hospital which is organized and operated exclusively for
charitable purposes, no part of the net earnings of which inures to the benefit
of any private shareholder or individual.
   (2)   a licensed nursing care institution or a licensed residential care
institution or a residential care facility operated in conjunction with a
licensed nursing care institution or a licensed kidney dialysis center, which
provides medical services, nursing services or health related services and is
not used or held for profit.
   (3)   a hospital, nursing care institution or residential care institution
which is operated by the federal government, this State or a political
subdivision of this State.
   (4)   a facility that is under construction and that on completion will be a
facility under subdivision (1), (2) or (3) of this paragraph.
"Receipt (of Notice) by the Taxpayer" means the earlier of actual receipt or
the first attempted delivery by certified United States mail to the taxpayer's
address of record with the Tax Collector.
"Remediation" means those actions that are reasonable, necessary, cost-
effective and technically feasible in the event of the release or threat of
release of hazardous substances into the environment such that the waters of
the State are or may be affected, such actions as may be necessary to monitor,
assess and evaluate such release or threat of release, actions of remediation,
removal or disposal of hazardous substances or taking such other actions as may
be necessary to prevent, minimize or mitigate damage to the public health or
welfare or to the waters of the State which may otherwise result from a release
or threat of release of a hazardous substance that will or may affect the
waters of the State. Remediation activities include the use of biostimulation
with indigenous microbes and bioaugmentation using microbes that are
nonpathogenic, nonopportunistic and that are naturally occurring. Remediation
activities may include community information and participation costs and
providing an alternative drinking water supply.
"Rental Equipment" means tangible personal property sold, rented, leased, or
licensed to customers to the extent that the item is actually used by the
customer for rental, lease, or license to others; provided that:
   (1)   the vendee is regularly engaged in the business of renting, leasing,
or licensing such property for a consideration; and
   (2)   the item so claimed as "rental equipment" is not used by the person
claiming the exemption for any purpose other than rental, lease, or license for
compensation, to an extent greater than fifteen percent (15%) of its actual
use.
"Rental Supply" means an expendable or nonexpendable repair or replacement part
sold to become part of "rental equipment", provided that:
   (1)   the documentation relating to each purchased item so claimed
specifically itemizes to the vendor the actual item of "rental equipment" to
which the purchased item is intended to be attached as a repair or replacement
part; and
   (2)   the vendee is regularly engaged in the business of renting, leasing,
or licensing such property for a consideration; and
   (3)   the item so claimed as "rental equipment" is not used by the person
claiming the exemption for any purpose other than rental, lease, or license for
compensation, to an extent greater than fifteen percent (15%) of its actual
use.
"Repairer" means a person who restores or renews products, wares, or articles
of manufacture.
"Resides within the Town" means in cases other than individuals, whose legal
addresses are determinative of residence, the engaging, continuing, or
conducting of regular business activity within the Town.
"Restaurant" means any business activity where articles of food, drink, or
condiment are customarily prepared or served to patrons for consumption on or
off the premises, also including bars, cocktail lounges, the dining rooms of
hotels, and all caterers. For the purposes of this Chapter, a "fast food"
business, which includes street vendors and mobile vendors selling in public
areas or at entertainment or sports or similar events, who prepares or sells
food or drink for consumption on or off the premises is considered a
"restaurant", and not a "retailer".
"Retail Sale (Sale at Retail)" means the sale of tangible personal property,
except the sale of tangible personal property to a person regularly engaged in
the business of selling such property.
"Retailer" means any person engaged or continuing in the business of sales of
tangible personal property at retail.
"Sale" means any transfer of title or possession, or both, exchange, barter,
conditional or otherwise, in any manner or by any means whatsoever, including
consignment transactions and auctions, of property for a consideration. "Sale"
includes any transaction whereby the possession of such property is transferred
but the seller retains the title as security for the payment of the price.
"Sale" also includes the fabrication of tangible personal property for
consumers who, in whole or in part, furnish either directly or indirectly the
materials used in such fabrication work.
"Solar daylighting" means a device that is specifically designed to capture and
redirect the visible portion of the solar beam, while controlling the infrared
portion, for use in illuminating interior building spaces in lieu of artificial
lighting.
"Solar energy device" means a system or series of mechanisms designed primarily
to provide heating, to provide cooling, to produce electrical power, to produce
mechanical power, to provide solar daylighting or to provide any combination of
the foregoing by means of collecting and transferring solar generated energy
into such uses either by active or passive means, including wind generator
systems that produce electricity. Solar energy systems may also have the
capability of storing solar energy for future use. Passive systems shall
clearly be designed as a solar energy device, such as a trombe wall, and not
merely as a part of a normal structure, such as a window.
"Speculative Builder" means either:
   (1)   an owner-builder who sells or contracts to sell, at anytime, improved
real property (as provided in Section 8-416) consisting of:
      A)   custom, model, or inventory homes, regardless of the stage of
completion of such homes; or
      B)   improved residential or commercial lots without a structure; or
   (2)   an owner-builder who sells or contracts to sell improved real
property, other than improved real property specified in subsection (1) above:
      A)   prior to completion; or
      B)   before the expiration of twenty-four (24) months after the
improvements of the real property sold are substantially complete.
"Substantially Complete" means the construction contracting or reconstruction
contracting:
   (1)   has passed final inspection or its equivalent; or
   (2)   certificate of occupancy or its equivalent has been issued; or
   (3)   is ready for immediate occupancy or use.
"Supplier" means any person who rents, leases, licenses, or makes sales of
tangible personal property within the Town, either directly to the consumer or
customer or to wholesalers, jobbers, fabricators, manufacturers, modifiers,
assemblers, repairers, or those engaged in the business of providing services
which involve the use, sale, rental, lease, or license of tangible personal
property.
"Tax Collector" means the Town Manager or his designee or agent for all
purposes under this Chapter.
"Taxpayer" means any person liable for any tax under this Chapter.
"Taxpayer Problem Resolution Officer" means the individual designated by the
Town to perform the duties identified in Sections 8-515 and 8-516. In cities
with a population of 50,000 or more, the Taxpayer Problem Resolution Officer
shall be an employee of the Town. In cities with a population of less than
50,000, the Taxpayer Problem Resolution Officer need not be an employee of the
Town. Regardless of whether the Taxpayer Problem Resolution Officer is or is
not an employee of the Town, the Taxpayer Problem Resolution Officer shall have
substantive knowledge of taxation. The identity of and telephone number for the
Taxpayer Problem Resolution Officer can be obtained from the Tax Collector.
"Telecommunication Service" means any service or activity connected with the
transmission or relay of sound, visual image, data, information, images, or
material over a communications channel or any combination of communications
channels.
"Transient" means any person who either at the person's own expense or at the
expense of another obtains lodging space or the use of lodging space on a daily
or weekly basis, or on any other basis for less than thirty (30) consecutive
days.
"Utility Service" means the producing, providing, or furnishing of electricity,
electric lights, current, power, gas (natural or artificial), or water to
consumers or ratepayers.
Section 2. Section 8-415 of the Tax Code of the Town of Dewey-Humboldt is
amended to read:
Sec. 8-415. Construction contracting: construction contractors.
(a)   The tax rate shall be at an amount equal to one percent (1%) of the gross
income from the business upon every construction contractor engaging or
continuing in the business activity of construction contracting within the
Town.
   (1)   However, gross income from construction contracting shall not include
charges related to groundwater measuring devices required by A.R.S. Section 45-
604.
   (2)   (Reserved)
   (3)   gross income from construction contracting shall not include gross
income from the sale of manufactured buildings taxable under Section 8-427.
   (4)   For taxable periods beginning from and after July 1, 2008, the portion
of gross proceeds of sales or gross income attributable to the actual direct
costs of providing architectural or engineering services that are incorporated
in a contract is not subject to tax under this section. For the purposes of
this subsection, "direct costs" means the portion of the actual costs that are
directly expended in providing architectural or engineering services.
(b)   Deductions and exemptions.
   (1)   Gross income derived from acting as a "subcontractor" shall be exempt
from the tax imposed by this Section.
   (2)   All construction contracting gross income subject to the tax and not
deductible herein shall be allowed a deduction of thirty-five percent (35%).
   (3)   The gross proceeds of sales or gross income attributable to the
purchase of machinery, equipment or other tangible personal property that is
exempt from or deductible from privilege or use tax under:
      (A)   Section 8-465, subsections (g) and (p)
      (B)   Section 8-660, subsections (g) and (p)
   shall be exempt or deductible, respectively, from the tax imposed by this
Section.
   (4)   The gross proceeds of sales or gross income that is derived from a
contract entered into for the installation, assembly, repair or maintenance of
income-producing capital equipment, as defined in Section 8-110, that is
deducted from the retail classification pursuant to Section 8-465(g), that does
not become a permanent attachment to a building, highway, road, railroad,
excavation or manufactured building or other structure, project, development or
improvement shall be exempt from the tax imposed by this Section. If the
ownership of the realty is separate from the ownership of the income-producing
capital equipment, the determination as to permanent attachment shall be made
as if the ownership was the same. The deduction provided in this paragraph does
not include gross proceeds of sales or gross income from that portion of any
contracting activity which consists of the development of, or modification to,
real property in order to facilitate the installation, assembly, repair,
maintenance or removal of the income-producing capital equipment. For purposes
of this paragraph, "permanent attachment" means at least one of the following:
      (A)   to be incorporated into real property.
      (B)   to become so affixed to real property that it becomes part of the
real property.
      (C)   to be so attached to real property that removal would cause
substantial damage to the real property from which it is removed.
   (5)   The gross proceeds of sales or gross income received from a contract
for the construction of an environmentally controlled facility for the raising
of poultry for the production of eggs and the sorting, or cooling and packaging
of eggs shall be exempt from the tax imposed under this Section.
   (6)   The gross proceeds of sales or gross income that is derived from the
installation, assembly, repair or maintenance of cleanrooms that are deducted
from the tax base of the retail classification pursuant to Section 8-465,
subsection (g) shall be exempt from the tax imposed under this Section.
   (7)   The gross proceeds of sales or gross income that is derived from a
contract entered into with a person who is engaged in the commercial production
of livestock, livestock products or agricultural, horticultural, viticultural
or floricultural crops or products in this State for the construction,
alteration, repair, improvement, movement, wrecking or demolition or addition
to or subtraction from any building, highway, road, excavation, manufactured
building or other structure, project, development or improvement used directly
and primarily to prevent, monitor, control or reduce air, water or land
pollution shall be exempt from the tax imposed under this Section.
   (8)   The gross proceeds of sales or gross income received from a post
construction contract to perform post-construction treatment of real property
for termite and general pest control, including wood destroying organisms,
shall be exempt from tax imposed under this section.
   (9)   Through December 31, 2009, the gross proceeds of sales or gross income
received from a contract for constructing any lake facility development in a
commercial enhancement reuse district that is designated pursuant to A.R.S. §
42-6004 if the contractor maintains the following records in a form
satisfactory to the Arizona Department of Revenue and to the Town:
      (A)   The certificate of qualification of the lake facility development
issued by the Town pursuant to A.R.S. § 42-6004.
      (B)   All state and local transaction privilege tax returns for the
period of time during which the contractor received gross proceeds of sales or
gross income from a contract to construct a lake facility development in a
designated commercial enhancement reuse district, showing the amount exempted
from state and local taxation.
      (C)   Any other information considered to be necessary.
   (10)   Any amount attributable to development fees that are incurred in
relation to the construction, development or improvement of real property and
paid by the taxpayer as defined in the model city tax code or by a contractor
providing services to the taxpayer. For the purposes of this paragraph:
      (A)   the attributable amount shall not exceed the value of the
development fees actually imposed.
      (B)   the attributable amount is equal to the total amount of development
fees paid by the taxpayer or by a contractor providing services to the taxpayer
and the total development fees credited in exchange for the construction of,
contribution to or dedication of real property for providing public
infrastructure, public safety or other public services necessary to the
development. The real property must be the subject of the development fees.
      (C)   "development fees" means fees imposed to offset capital costs of
providing public infrastructure, public safety or other public services to a
development and authorized pursuant to section 9-463.05, section 11-1102 or
title 48 regardless of the jurisdiction to which the fees are paid.
   (11)   For taxable periods beginning from and after July 1, 2008 AND ending
before January 1, 2011, the gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived
from a contract to provide and install a solar energy device. The contractor
shall register with the department of revenue as a solar energy contractor. By
registering, the contractor acknowledges that it will make its books and
records relating to sales of solar energy devices available to the department
of revenue and the city, as applicable, for examination.
(c)   "Subcontractor" means a construction contractor performing work for
either:
   (1)   a construction contractor who has provided the subcontractor with a
written declaration that he is liable for the tax for the project and has
provided the subcontractor his Town Privilege License number.
   (2)   an owner-builder who has provided the subcontractor with a written
declaration that:
      (A)   the owner-builder is improving the property for sale; and
      (B)   the owner-builder is liable for the tax for such construction
contracting activity; and
      (C)   the owner-builder has provided the contractor his Town Privilege
License number.
   (3)   a person selling new manufactured buildings who has provided the
subcontractor with a written declaration that he is liable for the tax for the
site preparation and set-up; and provided the subcontractor his Town Privilege
License number.
   Subcontractor also includes a construction contractor performing work for
another subcontractor as defined above.
(Am. Ord. 09-54, passed 8-4-2009)
Section 3. Section 8-416 of the Tax Code of the Town of Dewey-Humboldt is
amended to read:
Sec. 8-416. Construction contracting: speculative builders.
(a)   The tax shall be equal to one percent (1%) of the gross income from the
business activity upon every person engaging or continuing in business as a
speculative builder within the Town.
   (1)   The gross income of a speculative builder considered taxable shall
include the total selling price from the safe of improved real property at the
time of closing of escrow or transfer of title.
   (2)   "Improved Real Property" means any real property:
      (A)   upon which a structure has been constructed; or
      (B)   where improvements have been made to land containing no structure
(such as paving or landscaping); or
      (C)   which has been reconstructed as provided by Regulation; or
      (D)   where water, power, and streets have been constructed to the
property line.
   (3)   "Sale of Improved Real Property" includes any form of transaction,
whether characterized as a lease or otherwise, which in substance is a transfer
of title of, or equitable ownership in, improved real property and includes any
lease of the property for a term of thirty (30) years or more (with all options
for renewal being included as a part of the term). In the case of multiple unit
projects, "sale" refers to the sale of the entire project or to the sale of any
individual parcel or unit.
   (4)   "Partially Improved Residential Real Property", as used in this
Section, means any improved real property, as defined in subsection (a)(2)
above, being developed for sale to individual homeowners, where the
construction of the residence upon such property is not substantially complete
at the time of the sale.
(b)   Exclusions.
   (1)   In cases involving reconstruction contracting, the speculative builder
may exclude from gross income the prior value allowed for reconstruction
contracting in determining his taxable gross income, as provided by Regulation.
   (2)   Neither the cost nor the fair market value of the land which
constitutes part of the improved real property sold may be excluded or deducted
from gross income subject to the tax imposed by this Section.
   (3)   (Reserved)
   (4)   A speculative builder may exclude gross income from the sale of
partially improved residential real property as defined in (a)(4) above to
another speculative builder only if all of the following conditions are
satisfied:
      (A)   The speculative builder purchasing the partially improved
residential real property has a valid Town privilege license for construction
contracting as a speculative builder; and
      (B)   At the time of the transaction, the purchaser provides the seller
with a properly completed written declaration that the purchaser assumes
liability for and will pay all privilege taxes which would otherwise be due the
Town at the time of sale of the partially improved residential real property;
and
      (C)   The seller also:
         (i)   maintains proper records of such transactions in a manner
similar to the requirements provided in this chapter relating to sales for
resale; and
         (ii)   retains a copy of the written declaration provided by the buyer
for the transaction; and 
         (iii)   is properly licensed with the Town as a speculative builder
and provides the Town with the written declaration attached to the Town
privilege tax return where he claims the exclusion.
   (5)   For taxable periods beginning from and after July 1, 2008, the portion
of gross proceeds of sales or gross income attributable to the actual direct
costs of providing architectural or engineering services that are incorporated
in a contract is not subject to tax under this section. For the purposes of
this subsection, "direct costs" means the portion of the actual costs that are
directly expended in providing architectural or engineering services.
(c)   Tax liability for speculative builders occurs at close of escrow or
transfer of title, whichever occurs earlier, and is subject to the following
provisions, relating to exemptions, deductions and tax credits:
   (1)   Exemptions.
      (A)   The gross proceeds of sales or gross income attributable to the
purchase of machinery, equipment or other tangible personal property that is
exempt from or deductible from privilege or use tax under:
         (i)   Section 8-465, subsections (g) and (p)
         (ii)   Section 8-660, subsections (g) and (p)
      shall be exempt or deductible, respectively, from the tax imposed by this
Section.
      (B)   The gross proceeds of sales or gross income received from a
contract for the construction of an environmentally controlled facility for the
raising of poultry for the production of eggs and the sorting, or cooling and
packaging of eggs shall be exempt from the tax imposed under this Section.
      (C)   The gross proceeds of sales or gross income that is derived from
the installation, assembly, repair or maintenance of cleanrooms that are
deducted from the tax base of the retail classification pursuant to Section 8-
465, subsection (g) shall be exempt from the tax imposed under this section.
      (D)   The gross proceeds of sales or gross income that is derived from a
contract entered into with a person who is engaged in the commercial production
of livestock, livestock products or agricultural, horticultural, viticultural
or floricultural crops or products in this state for the construction,
alteration, repair, improvement, movement, wrecking or demolition or addition
to or subtraction from any building, highway, road, excavation, manufactured
building or other structure, project, development or improvement used directly
and primarily to prevent, monitor, control or reduce air, water or land
pollution shall be exempt from the tax imposed under this Section.
      (E)   Any amount attributable to development fees that are incurred in
relation to the construction, development or improvement of real property and
paid by the taxpayer as defined in the model city tax code or by a contractor
providing services to the taxpayer shall be exempt from the tax imposed under
this section. For the purposes of this paragraph:
         (I)   the attributable amount shall not exceed the value of the
development fees actually imposed.
         (II)   the attributable amount is equal to the total amount of
development fees paid by the taxpayer or by a contractor providing services to
the taxpayer and the total development fees credited in exchange for the
construction of, contribution to or dedication of real property for providing
public infrastructure, public safety or other public services necessary to the
development. The real property must be the subject of the development fees.
         (III)   "development fees" means fees imposed to offset capital costs
of providing public infrastructure, public safety or other public services to a
development and authorized pursuant to section 9-463.05, section 11-1102 or
title 48 regardless of the jurisdiction to which the fees are paid.
   (2)   Deductions. 
      (A)   All amounts subject to the tax shall be allowed a deduction in the
amount of thirty-five percent (35%).
      (B)   The gross proceeds of sales or gross income that is derived from a
contract entered into for the installation, assembly, repair or maintenance of
income-producing capital equipment, as defined in Section 8-110, that is
deducted from the retail classification pursuant to Section 8-465(g), that does
not become a permanent attachment to a building, highway, road, railroad,
excavation or manufactured building or other structure, project, development or
improvement shall be exempt from the tax imposed by this Section. If the
ownership of the realty is separate from the ownership of the income-producing
capital equipment, the determination as to permanent attachment shall be made
as if the ownership was the same. The deduction provided in this paragraph does
not include gross proceeds of sales or gross income from that portion of any
contracting activity which consists of the development of, or modification to,
real property in order to facilitate the installation, assembly, repair,
maintenance or removal of the income-producing capital equipment. For purposes
of this paragraph, "permanent attachment" means at least one of the following:
         (i)   to be incorporated into real property.
         (ii)   to become so affixed to real property that it becomes part of
the real property.
         (iii)   to be so attached to real property that removal would cause
substantial damage to the real property from which it is removed.
      (C)   For taxable periods beginning from and after July 1, 2008 and
ending before January 1, 2011, the gross proceeds of sales or gross income
derived from a contract to provide and install a solar energy device. The
contractor shall register with the department of revenue as a solar energy
contractor. By registering, the contractor acknowledges that it will make its
books and records relating to sales of solar energy devices available to the
department of revenue and the city, as applicable, for examination.
   (3)   Tax credits.
      The following tax credits are available to owner-builders or speculative
builders, not to exceed the tax liability against which such credits apply,
provided such credits are documented to the satisfaction of the tax collector:
      (A)   A tax credit equal to the amount of Town privilege or use tax, or
the equivalent excise tax, paid directly to a taxing jurisdiction or as a
separately itemized charge paid directly to the vendor with respect to the
tangible personal property incorporated into the said structure or improvement
to real property undertaken by the owner-builder or speculative builder.
      (B)   A tax credit equal to the amount of privilege taxes paid to this
Town, or charged separately to the speculative builder, by a construction
contractor, on the gross income derived by said person from the construction of
any improvement to the real property.
      (C)   No credits provided herein may be claimed until such time that the
gross income against which said credits apply is reported.
(Am. Ord. 09-54, passed 8-4-2009)
Section 4. Section 8-417 of the Tax Code of the Town of Dewey-Humboldt is
amended to read:
Sec. 8-417. Construction contracting: owner-builders who are not speculative
builders.
(a)   At the expiration of twenty-four (24) months after improvement to the
property is substantially complete, the tax liability for an owner-builder who
is not a speculative builder shall be at an amount equal to one percent (1%)
of:
   (1)   the gross income from the activity of construction contracting upon
the real property in question which was realized by those construction
contractors to whom the owner-builder provided written declaration that they
were not responsible for the taxes as prescribed in subsection 8-415(c)(2); and
   (2)   the purchase of tangible personal property for incorporation into any
improvement to real property, computed on the sales price.
(b)   For taxable periods beginning from and after July 1, 2008, the portion of
gross proceeds of sales or gross income attributable to the actual direct costs
of providing architectural or engineering services that are incorporated in a
contract is not subject to tax under this section. For the purposes of this
subsection, "direct costs" means the portion of the actual costs that are
directly expended in providing architectural or engineering services.
(c)   The tax liability of this Section is subject to the following provisions,
relating to exemptions, deductions and tax credits:
   (1)   Exemptions.
      (A)   The gross proceeds of sales or gross income attributable to the
purchase of machinery, equipment or other tangible personal property that is
exempt from or deductible from privilege or use tax under:
         (i)   Section 8-465, subsections (g) and (p)
         (ii)   Section 8-660, subsections (g) and (p)
      shall be exempt or deductible, respectively, from the tax imposed by this
Section.
      (B)   The gross proceeds of sales or gross income received from a
contract for the construction of an environmentally controlled facility for the
raising of poultry for the production of eggs and the sorting, or cooling and
packaging of eggs shall be exempt from the tax imposed under this Section.
      (C)   The gross proceeds of sales or gross income that is derived from
the installation, assembly, repair or maintenance of cleanrooms that are
deducted from the tax base of the retail classification pursuant to Section 8-
465, subsection (g) shall be exempt from the tax imposed under this Section.
      (D)   The gross proceeds of sales or gross income that is derived from a
contract entered into with a person who is engaged in the commercial production
of livestock, livestock products or agricultural, horticultural, viticultural
or floricultural crops or products in this state for the construction,
alteration, repair, improvement, movement, wrecking or demolition or addition
to or subtraction from any building, highway, road, excavation, manufactured
building or other structure, project, development or improvement used directly
and primarily to prevent, monitor, control or reduce air, water or land
pollution shall be exempt from the tax imposed under this Section.
      (E)   Any amount attributable to development fees that are incurred in
relation to the construction, development or improvement of real property and
paid by the taxpayer as defined in the model city tax code or by a contractor
providing services to the taxpayer shall be exempt from the tax imposed under
this section. For the purposes of this paragraph:
         (i)   the attributable amount shall not exceed the value of the
development fees actually imposed.
         (ii)   the attributable amount is equal to the total amount of
development fees paid by the taxpayer or by a contractor providing services to
the taxpayer and the total development fees credited in exchange for the
construction of, contribution to or dedication of real property for providing
public infrastructure, public safety or other public services necessary to the
development. The real property must be the subject of the development fees.
         (iii)   "development fees" means fees imposed to offset capital costs
of providing public infrastructure, public safety or other public services to a
development and authorized pursuant to section 9-463.05, section 11-1102 or
title 48 regardless of the jurisdiction to which the fees are paid.
   (2)   Deductions. 
      (A)   All amounts subject to the tax shall be allowed a deduction in the
amount of thirty-five percent (35%).
      (B)   The gross proceeds of sales or gross income that is derived from a
contract entered into for the installation, assembly, repair or maintenance of
income-producing capital equipment, as defined in Section 8-110, that is
deducted from the retail classification pursuant to Section 8-465(g), that does
not become a permanent attachment to a building, highway, road, railroad,
excavation or manufactured building or other structure, project, development or
improvement shall be exempt from the tax imposed by this Section. If the
ownership of the realty is separate from the ownership of the income-producing
capital equipment, the determination as to permanent attachment shall be made
as if the ownership was the same. The deduction provided in this paragraph does
not include gross proceeds of sales or gross income from that portion of any
contracting activity which consists of the development of, or modification to,
real property in order to facilitate the installation, assembly, repair,
maintenance or removal of the income-producing capital equipment. For purposes
of this paragraph, "permanent attachment" means at least one of the following:
         (i)   to be incorporated into real property.
         (ii)   to become so affixed to real property that it becomes part of
the real property.
         (iii)   to be so attached to real property that removal would cause
substantial damage to the real property from which it is removed.
      (C)   For taxable periods beginning from and after July 1, 2008 and
ending before January 1, 2011, the gross proceeds of sales or gross income
derived from a contract to provide and install a solar energy device. The
contractor shall register with the department of revenue as a solar energy
contractor. By registering, the contractor acknowledges that it will make its
books and records relating to sales of solar energy devices available to the
department of revenue and the city, as applicable, for examination.
   (3)   Tax credits.
      The following tax credits are available to owner-builders and speculative
builders, not to exceed the tax liability against which such credits apply,
provided such credits are documented to the satisfaction of the tax collector:
      (A)   A tax credit equal to the amount of Town privilege or use tax, or
the equivalent excise tax, paid directly to a taxing jurisdiction or as a
separately itemized charge paid directly to the vendor with respect to the
tangible personal property incorporated into the said structure or improvement
to real property undertaken by the owner-builder or speculative builder.
      (B)   A tax credit equal to the amount of privilege taxes paid to this
Town, or charged separately to the speculative builder, by a construction
contractor, on the gross income derived by said person from the construction of
any improvement to the real property.
      (C)   No credits provided herein may be claimed until such time that the
gross income against which said credits apply is reported.
      (D)   The limitation period for the assessment of taxes imposed by this
Section is measured based upon when such liability is reportable, that is, in
the reporting period that encompasses the twenty-fifth (25th) month after said
unit or project was substantially complete. Interest and penalties, as provided
in Section 8-540, will be based on reportable date.
      (E)   (Reserved)
(Am. Ord. 09-54, passed 8-4-2009)
Section 5. Section 8-450 of the Tax Code of the Town of Dewey-Humboldt is
amended to read:
Sec. 8-450. Rental, leasing, and licensing for use of tangible personal
property.
(a)   The tax rate shall be at an amount equal to one percent (1%) of the gross
income from the business activity upon every person engaging or continuing in
the business of leasing, licensing for use, or renting tangible personal
property for a consideration, including that which is semi-permanently or
permanently installed within the Town as provided by Regulation.
(b)   Special provisions relating to long-term motor vehicle leases. A lease
transaction involving a motor vehicle for a minimum period of twenty-four (24)
months shall be considered to have occurred at the location of the motor
vehicle dealership, rather than the location of the place of business of the
lessor, even if the lessor's interest in the lease and its proceeds are sold,
transferred, or otherwise assigned to a lease financing institution; provided
further that the city or town where such motor vehicle dealership is located
levies a Privilege Tax or an equivalent excise tax upon the transaction.
(c)   Gross income derived from the following transactions shall be exempt from
Privilege Taxes imposed by this Section:
   (1)   rental, leasing, or licensing for use of tangible personal property to
persons engaged or continuing in the business of leasing, licensing for use, or
rental of such property.
   (2)   rental, leasing, or licensing for use of tangible personal property
that is semi-permanently or permanently installed within another city or town
that levies an equivalent excise tax on the transaction.
   (3)   rental, leasing, or licensing for use of film, tape, or slides to a
theater or other person taxed under Section8-410, or to a radio station,
television station, or subscription television system.
   (4)   rental, leasing, or licensing for use of the following:
      (A)   prosthetics.
      (B)   income-producing capital equipment.
      (C)   mining and metallurgical supplies.
These exemptions include the rental, leasing, or licensing for use of tangible
personal property which, if it had been purchased instead of leased, rented, or
licensed by the lessee or licensee, would qualify as income-producing capital
equipment or mining and metallurgical supplies.
   (5)   rental, leasing, or licensing for use of tangible personal property to
a qualifying hospital, qualifying community health center or a qualifying
health care organization, except when the property so rented, leased, or
licensed is for use in activities resulting in gross income from unrelated
business income as that term is defined in 26 U.S.C. Section 512 or rental,
leasing, or licensing for use of tangible personal property in this State by a
nonprofit charitable organization that has qualified under Section 501(c)(3) of
the United States Internal Revenue Code and that engages in and uses such
property exclusively for training, job placement or rehabilitation programs or
testing for mentally or physically handicapped persons.
   (6)   separately billed charges for delivery, installation, repair, and/or
maintenance as provided by Regulation.
   (7)   charges for joint pole usage by a person engaged in the business of
providing or furnishing utility or telecommunication services to another person
engaged in the business of providing or furnishing utility or telecommunication
services.
   (8)   (Reserved)
   (9)   rental, leasing, or licensing of aircraft that would qualify as
aircraft acquired for use outside the State, as prescribed by Regulation, if
such rental, leasing, or licensing had been a sale.
   (10)   rental, leasing and licensing for use of an alternative fuel vehicle
if such vehicle was manufactured as a diesel fuel vehicle and converted to
operate on alternative fuel and equipment that is installed in a conventional
diesel fuel motor vehicle to convert the vehicle to operate on an alternative
fuel, as defined in A.R.S. Section 1-215.
   (11)   rental, leasing, and licensing for use of solar energy devices, for
taxable periods beginning from and after July 1, 2008. The lessor shall
register with the department of revenue as a solar energy retailer. By
registering, the lessor acknowledges that it will make its books and records
relating to leases of solar energy devices available to the department of
revenue and Town, as applicable, for examination.
(Am. Ord. 09-54, passed 8-4-2009)
Section 6. Regulation 8-350.3 of the Tax Code of the Town of Dewey-Humboldt is
amended to read:
Reg. 8-350.3. Recordkeeping: out-of-Town and out-of-State sales.
(a)   Out-of-Town Sales. Any person engaging or continuing in a business who
claims out-of-Town sales shall maintain and keep accounting records or books
indicating separately the gross income from the sales of tangible personal
property from such out-of-Town branches or locations.
(b)   Out-of-State sales. Persons engaged in a business claiming out-of-State
sales shall maintain accounting records or books indicating for each out-of-
State sale the following documentation:
   (1)   documentation of location of the buyer at the time of order placement;
and
   (2)   shipping, delivery, or freight documents showing where the buyer took
delivery; and
   (3)   documentation of intended location of use or storage of the tangible
personal property sold to such buyer.
(Am. Ord. 09-54, passed 8-4-2009)
Section 7. Section 8-465 of the Tax Code of the Town of Dewey-Humboldt is
amended to read:
Sec. 8-465. Retail sales: exemptions.
Income derived from the following sources is exempt from the tax imposed by
Section 8-460:
(a)   sales of tangible personal property to a person regularly engaged in the
business of selling such property.
(b)   out-of-Town sales or out-of-State sales.
(c)   charges for delivery, installation, or other direct customer services as
prescribed by Regulation.
(d)   charges for repair services as prescribed by Regulation, when separately
charged and separately maintained in the books and records of the taxpayer.
(e)   sales of warranty, maintenance, and service contracts, when separately
charged and separately maintained in the books and records of the taxpayer.
(f)   sales of prosthetics.
(g)   sales of income-producing capital equipment.
(h)   sales of rental equipment and rental supplies.
(i)   sales of mining and metallurgical supplies.
(j)   sales of motor vehicle fuel and use fuel which are subject to a tax
imposed under the provisions of Article 1 or 2, Chapter 16, Title 28, Arizona
Revised Statutes; or sales of use fuel to a holder of a valid single trip use
fuel tax permit issued under A.R.S. Section 28-5739, or sales of natural gas or
liquefied petroleum gas used to propel a motor vehicle.
(k)   sales of tangible personal property to a construction contractor who
holds a valid Privilege Tax License for engaging or continuing in the business
of construction contracting where the tangible personal property sold is
incorporated into any structure or improvement to real property as part of
construction contracting activity.
(l)   sales of motor vehicles to nonresidents of this State for use outside
this State if the vendor ships or delivers the motor vehicle to a destination
outside this State.
(m)   sales of tangible personal property which directly enters into and
becomes an ingredient or component part of a product sold in the regular course
of the business of job printing, manufacturing, or publication of newspapers,
magazines, or other periodicals. Tangible personal property which is consumed
or used up in a manufacturing, job printing, publishing, or production process
is not an ingredient nor component part of a product.
(n)   sales made directly to the Federal government to the extent of:
   (1)   one hundred percent (100%) of the gross income derived from retail
sales made by a manufacturer, modifier, assembler, or repairer.
   (2)   fifty percent (50%) of the gross income derived from retail sales made
by any other person.
(o)   sales to hotels, bars, restaurants, dining cars, lunchrooms, boarding
houses, or similar establishments of articles consumed as food, drink, or
condiment, whether simple, mixed, or compounded, where such articles are
customarily prepared or served to patrons for consumption on or off the
premises, where the purchaser is properly licensed and paying a tax under
Section 8-455 or the equivalent excise tax upon such income.
(p)   sales of tangible personal property to a qualifying hospital, qualifying
community health center or a qualifying health care organization, except when
the property sold is for use in activities resulting in gross income from
unrelated business income as that term is defined in 26 U.S.C. Section 512 or
sales of tangible personal property purchased in this State by a nonprofit
charitable organization that has qualified under Section 501(c)(3) of the
United States Internal Revenue Code and that engages in and uses such property
exclusively for training, job placement or rehabilitation programs or testing
for mentally or physically handicapped persons.
(q)   food purchased with food stamps provided through the food stamp program
established by the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (P.L. 95-113; 91 Stat. 958.7 U.S.C.
Section 2011 et seq.) or purchased with food instruments issued under Section
17 of the Child Nutrition Act (P.L. 95-627; 92 Stat. 3603; and P.L. 99-669;
Section 4302; 42 United States Code Section 1786) but only to the extent that
food stamps or food instruments were actually used to purchase such food.
(r)   (Reserved)
   (1)   (Reserved)
   (2)   (Reserved)
   (3)   (Reserved)
   (4)   (Reserved)
(s)   sales of groundwater measuring devices required by A.R.S. Section 45-604.
(t)   (Reserved)
(u)   sales of aircraft acquired for use outside the State, as prescribed by
Regulation.
(v)   sales of food products by producers as provided for by A.R.S. Sections 3-
561, 3-562 and 3-563.
(w)   (Reserved)
(x)   (Reserved)
(y)   (Reserved)
(z)   (Reserved)
(aa)   the sale of tangible personal property used in remediation contracting
as defined in Section 8-100 and Regulation 8-100.5.
(bb)   sales of materials that are purchased by or for publicly funded
libraries including school district libraries, charter school libraries,
community college libraries, state university libraries or federal, state,
county or municipal libraries for use by the public as follows:
   (1)   printed or photographic materials.
   (2)   electronic or digital media materials.
(cc)   sales of food, beverages, condiments and accessories used for serving
food and beverages to a commercial airline, as defined in A.R.S. § 42-5061(A)
(49), that serves the food and beverages to its passengers, without additional
charge, for consumption in flight. For the purposes of this subsection,
"accessories" means paper plates, plastic eating utensils, napkins, paper cups,
drinking straws, paper sacks or other disposable containers, or other items
which facilitate the consumption of the food.
(dd)   in computing the tax base in the case of the sale or transfer of
wireless telecommunication equipment as an inducement to a customer to enter
into or continue a contract for telecommunication services that are taxable
under Section 8-470, gross proceeds of sales or gross income does not include
any safes commissions or other compensation received by the retailer as a
result of the customer entering into or continuing a contract for the
telecommunications services.
(ee)   for the purposes of this Section, a sale of wireless telecommunication
equipment to a person who holds the equipment for sale or transfer to a
customer as an inducement to enter into or continue a contract for
telecommunication services that are taxable under Section 8-470 is considered
to be a sale for resale in the regular course of business.
(ff)   sales of alternative fuel as defined in A.R.S. Section 1-215, to a used
oil fuel burner who has received a Department of Environmental Quality permit
to burn used oil or used oil fuel under A.R.S. Section 49-426 or Section 49-
480.
(gg)   sales of food, beverages, condiments and accessories to a public
educational entity, pursuant to any of the provisions of Title 15, Arizona
Revised Statutes; to the extent such items are to be prepared or served to
individuals for consumption on the premises of a public educational entity
during school hours. For the purposes of this subsection, "accessories" means
paper plates, plastic eating utensils, napkins, paper cups, drinking straws,
paper sacks or other disposable containers, or other items which facilitate the
consumption of the food.
(hh)   sales of personal hygiene items to a person engaged in the business of
and subject to tax under Section 8-444 of this code if the tangible personal
property is furnished without additional charge to and intended to be consumed
by the person during his occupancy.
(ii)   for the purposes of this Section, the diversion of gas from a pipeline
by a person engaged in the business of operating a natural or artificial gas
pipeline, for the sole purpose of fueling compressor equipment to pressurize
the pipeline, is not a sale of the gas to the operator of the pipeline.
(jj)   sales of food, beverages, condiments and accessories to a nonprofit
charitable organization that has qualified as an exempt organization under 26
U.S.C. Section 501(c)(3) and regularly serves meals to the needy and indigent
on a continuing basis at no cost. For the purposes of this subsection,
"accessories" means paper plates, plastic eating utensils, napkins, paper cups,
drinking straws, paper sacks or other disposable containers, or other items
which facilitate the consumption of the food.
(kk)   sales of motor vehicles that use alternative fuel was manufactured as a
diesel fuel vehicle and converted to operate on alternative fuel and sales of
equipment that is installed in a conventional diesel fuel motor vehicle to
convert the vehicle to operate on an alternative fuel, as defined in A.R.S. §
1-215.
(ll)   Sales of solar energy devices, for taxable periods beginning from and
after July 1, 2008. The retailer shall register with the department of revenue
as a solar energy retailer. By registering, the retailer acknowledges that it
will make its books and records relating to sales of solar energy devices
available to the department of revenue and city, as applicable, for
examination.
(Ord. 08-38, passed 4-1-2008)
Section 8. Section 8-465 of the Tax Code of the Town of Dewey-Humboldt is
amended to read:
Sec. 8-610. Use tax: imposition of tax; presumption.
   (a)   There is hereby levied and imposed, subject to all other provisions of
this Chapter, an excise tax on the storage or use in the Town of tangible
personal property, for the purpose of raising revenue to be used in defraying
the necessary expenses of the Town, such taxes to be collected by the Tax
Collector.
   (b)   The tax rate shall be at an amount equal to ONE percent (1%) of the:
      (1)   cost of tangible personal property acquired from a retailer, upon
every person storing or using such property in this Town.
      (2)   gross income from the business activity upon every person meeting
the requirements of subsection 8-620(b) or (c) who is engaged or continuing in
the business activity of sales, rentals, leases, or licenses of tangible
personal property to persons within the Town for storage or use within the
Town, to the extent that tax has been collected upon such transaction.
      (3)   cost of the tangible personal property provided under the
conditions of a warranty, maintenance, or service contract.
      (4)   cost of complimentary items provided to patrons without itemized
charge by a restaurant, hotel, or other business.
      (5)   (Reserved)
   (c)   It shall be presumed that all tangible personal property acquired by
any person who at the time of such acquisition resides in the Town is acquired
for storage or use in this Town, until the contrary is established by the
taxpayer.
   (d)   Exclusions. For the purposes of this Article, the acquisition of the
following shall not be deemed to be the purchase, rental, lease, or license of
tangible personal property for storage or use within the Town:
      (1)   stocks, bonds, options, or other similar materials.
      (2)   lottery tickets or shares sold pursuant to Article I, Chapter 5,
Title 5, Arizona Revised Statutes.
      (3)   Platinum, bullion, or monetized bullion, except minted or
manufactured coins transferred or acquired primarily for their numismatic value
as prescribed by Regulation.
   (e)   (Reserved)
   (f)   (Reserved)
(Ord. 09-54, passed 8-4-2009)
March 2010 amendments to the Tax Code of the Town of Dewey-Humboldt.
   All references to tax rates of "one percent" or "1%" in the 2008 amendments
to the Tax Code of the Town of Dewey-Humboldt are amended to now read "two
percent" or "2%", respectively.
(Ord. 10-66, passed 3-16-2010)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   PUBLIC WORKS CODE
         
51.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 50: PUBLIC WORKS CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Design requirements
   
50.03   Required improvements
   
50.04   Undergrounding of overhead utility lines
   
50.05   Off-site construction permits, plans and specifications
   
50.06   Fee for review of off-site improvement plans and specifications
   
50.07   Inspection and testing of off-site construction
   
50.08   Approval, acceptance, and assurances of construction
   
50.09   Performance bond or cash deposit; off-site improvements
   
50.10   Validity of permit
   
50.11   Deferral of off-site improvements
   
50.12   Street financing policy
   
50.13   Scalloped street assessments
   
50.14   Private streets
   
50.15   Traffic signals and streetlights
   
50.16   Disposition of unnecessary rights-of- way
   
50.17   Enforcement and severability
Public Improvement Repayments
   
50.30   Definitions
   
50.31   Policy
   
50.32   Construction of public improvements
   
50.33   Authorization of repayment agreements
   
50.34   Repayment agreements; terms; collections; and costs
   
50.35   Notice of intention to approve public improvements
   
50.36   Hearing procedure
   
50.37   Reimbursement amounts payable to town
   
50.38   Assessment districts, improvement districts; general obligation bond
projects; cost apportionment
   
50.39   Fee schedule
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01    DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter shall have
the meanings set forth below, unless the context clearly indicates a different
meaning:
   DEPARTMENT. The Public Works Department, typically acting through the Public
Works Director or his or her designee, and persons seeking permits pursuant to
this chapter may obtain necessary forms and information from the permit counter
in the Public Works Department.
   DEVELOPER. A DEVELOPER shall be the individual, firm, corporation,
association, syndicate, trust, or other legal entity that files the application
and initiates proceedings for the development of land including but not limited
to a subdivision, minor division of land, site development plan and/or a zone
change in accordance with this code. The DEVELOPER need not be the owner of
record of the land.
   MEDIAN. A raised or flush area designed to separate and control vehicular
movement.
   OFF-SITE CONSTRUCTION.  Construction, erection or installation or any change
or addition to lands, structures, equipment, facilities or materials located
above or below ground within any public place, right-of-way or other public
surface or subsurface drainage facility in the town. Off-site construction
includes construction of improvements on private property which will later be
dedicated to the town or which will serve as community infrastructure even
though remaining private property.
   OFF-SITE IMPROVEMENTS. Those improvements, infrastructure or facilities a
developer is required to or does construct or install in conjunction with the
development or redevelopment of any parcel or property and any off-site
construction, including common infrastructure, adjacent to or related to
property for which a town permit is being sought for purposes of development,
redevelopment or construction. Off-site retention basins and other drainage
facilities, overhead utility lines, water lines, effluent lines, sewer lines,
together with all other water, effluent and sewer services facilities and
appurtenances thereto, and all other off-site improvements required to provide
service to and develop the property shall be deemed off-site improvements as
regulated by this code.
   OVERHEAD UTILITY LINES. Are defined as those historically conveyed by a
series of conductors mounted on poles or other aboveground structures. Included
are electric service lines, electric distribution lines (under 69 kilovolts),
telephone cables and lines, and lines for other communications systems such as
cable-transmitted television.
   PRIVATE STREET. A street not owned or maintained by the town or other public
entity.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Land, whether or not improved or accepted for maintenance,
which by deed, conveyance, agreement, easement, dedication, usage or process of
law is reserved for the public and occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, highway, alley, public utility, pedestrian walkway, bikeway, drainage,
curb, gutter, driveway, railroad, electric transmission line, oil or gas
pipeline, water lines and facilities, sanitary or storm sewer lines and
facilities, effluent lines and facilities, or for another public use. The usage
of the term RIGHT-OF-WAY for land platting purposes means that every RIGHT-OF-
WAY hereafter established and shown on a final plat is to be separate and
distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining such right-of-way, and are not
included within the dimensions or areas of such lots or parcels.
   UNDERGROUND or UNDERGROUNDING.  Is the placement of utilities below ground
with the attendant removal of above-ground poles, conductors and appurtenances
as applicable.
(Ord. 05-12, passed 7-12-2005)
§ 50.02 DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All off-site improvements shall be designed, engineered, constructed
and installed in accordance with all other applicable regulations adopted by
the town, state or federal government: “Right-of-way” width and street cross
sections shall be as specified in the Town Code and Planning and Zoning
Ordinance. The Department, in consultation with the Development Services
Director, shall determine street classifications.
   (B)   Landscaping within public and private rights-of-way shall meet all
requirements for on-site landscaping as prescribed by the Planning and Zoning
Ordinance and all other applicable town regulations, and will be subject to
approval of the Development Services Director and the Department.
(Ord. 05-12, passed 7-12-2005)
§ 50.03 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   As a condition of approval of any subdivision, minor division of land
or site development plan, the developer shall be required to design, engineer,
construct and install all off-site improvements on and adjacent to the site to
be developed, in accordance with the requirements set forth in the Town Code
and Planning and Zoning Ordinance and regulations, and this chapter.
   (B)   This requirement applies to all land developed or redeveloped under
the provisions of the any of the above listed chapters.
      (1)   Off-site improvements shall, as a minimum, extend to the center of
abutting streets or rights-of-way and may extend beyond the center by two feet
or when median islands and two-way traffic requirements necessitate such
extension. When the property to be developed abuts a canal, drain, wash,
irrigation ditch or similar facility, the off-site construction shall include
improvements to said facility.
      (2)   Off-site improvements shall also include tapers or transitional
areas on either side of the project site necessary to provide a safe, smooth
traffic flow between existing and newly constructed street sections.
Acquisition of any and all additional right-of-way necessary for such
construction, including applicable legal fees, shall be the responsibility of
the developer and at the developer's sole expense.
(Ord. 05-12, passed 7-12-2005)
§ 50.04 UNDERGROUNDING OF OVERHEAD UTILITY LINES.
   (A)   The developer shall place underground all overhead utility lines,
either within a proposed development or redevelopment project or within public
places, rights-of-way or other public surface or subsurface drainage facilities
adjacent to the project, prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
      (1)   This requirement shall apply to all projects submitted for approval
or reapproval under the provisions of the site development in the Planning and
Zoning Ordinance.
      (2)   Utility poles and lines are defined herein as the poles,
structures, wire, aerial cables and related facilities used in the distribution
of electricity or in the transmission of telecommunications, telegraph, data,
radio or television communications.
      (3)   This requirement includes both new and existing utility lines on
and adjacent to the project, including lines which extend across public
streets, alleys and/or easements adjacent to the property being developed or
redeveloped. Existing utility lines adjacent to a project shall be under-
grounded up to the first existing pole beyond the limits of the property.
      (4)   This requirement includes the undergrounding of all existing
overhead service lines attached to the lines to be removed along with necessary
conduit, supports, restoration, and the like, necessary to convert the service
line from overhead to underground.
      (5)   The requirement shall apply regardless of the existence of
easements for overhead lines. Adjacent high-voltage power lines less than 69 kv
in capacity shall be placed underground.
   (B)   Equipment appurtenant to the underground facilities, such as surface-
mounted transformers, pull boxes, pedestal cabinets, service terminals,
telephone splice closures, concealed ducts, or other similar on-the-ground
facilities normally used with or as design approved by the Department, may be
maintained above ground with the written permission of the Public Works
Director for the specific facility to be left above ground.
   (C)   The developer of a development or redevelopment project shall be
responsible to make necessary, arrangements with the affected utility companies
for the installation of required underground facilities, including the payment
of any cost therefore as a condition of plan approval. Nothing contained herein
is intended to obligate a providing utility company to install such underground
facilities without reimbursement.
   (D)   In those instances where poles to be removed include street lights,
the street lights will be replaced with freestanding poles by the developer in
accordance with current town street light standards.
   (E)   Relief from undergrounding requirements may be considered under the
following conditions:
      (1)   (a)   Deferment of undergrounding may be requested from the town by
a developer in cases where the utility frontage is small. Deferment of
undergrounding cannot be granted by the utility company, irrigation districts
or any other entity other than the town. When deferment is approved, the
developer shall obtain an estimate of undergrounding costs from all affected
utility companies.
         (b)   The developer shall then be required to provide a cash deposit,
letter of credit, certificate of deposit, or other security acceptable to the
Town Attorney, in an amount equal to the estimated undergrounding costs, as
provided by the utility company, associated with the utility frontage of the
project. The developer shall also be required to install the ductwork (conduit)
required by the utility companies for the future undergrounding prior to
issuance of certificate of occupancy.
         (c)   Phasing of projects may be considered based on the particular
situation. On projects for which plans are approved in phases, the developer
may request delay in payment of estimated costs until approval of plans for the
largest phase involving undergrounding, at which time payment for the entire
project shall be required. The obligation to pay at the time of a subsequent
phase shall be secured by an agreement which shall bind the owner and
subsequent buyers for undergrounding costs along the entire applicable
frontage.
         (d)   Monies received will be held in an account by the town to be
used at whatever time the applicable area is converted by the town, utility
companies, or other parties to underground utilities.
      (2)   Exemption may be considered where the developer can show that
undergrounding will be an unusual and material economic hardship and the costs
of such undergrounding are materially disproportionate in terms of the utility
frontage and the proportionate frontage of the project under consideration.
Examples are cases where development occurs in an area where adjacent land on
both sides is already developed (infill situation), and in cases involving
additions or modifications to existing sites which represent a minor portion of
the total site.
      (3)   All requests for relief must be presented in writing to the
Development Services Director prior to plan approval. Consideration for
approval shall be in accordance with the purpose, intent and objective of this
section. The Development Services Director and the Public Works Director shall
each approve or disapprove all formal requests for relief. High-voltage lines
which remain after the undergrounding are not considered as grounds for relief.
Aesthetics is only one of many reasons for undergrounding of which public
safety is paramount. Completion of undergrounding and/or payment of costs shall
be required prior to granting, of a certificate of occupancy. All new service
lines installed shall be underground even though relief may be granted for
adjacent existing lines.
   (F)   The requirements set forth above shall not apply to new utility poles
and wires erected for purely temporary purposes such as providing temporary
building construction power, emergency power, telephone service or the
furnishing of power to temporary outdoor activities. A permit for such
temporary use shall be obtained from the Public Works Director. The length of
the temporary use shall be specified in the permit and may not exceed six
months. One additional six-month extension of the permit may be issued upon a
finding of necessity by the Public Works Director.
(Ord. 05-12, passed 7-12-2005)
§ 50.05 OFF-SITE CONSTRUCTION PERMITS, PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The developer must obtain an encroachment permit prior to commencing
any work in, upon, or under the public places, rights-of-way or other public
surface or subsurface drainage facilities. In addition plans and specifications
for and construction of all off-site construction must be reviewed and approval
obtained pursuant to this code.
   (B)   Approval of off-site construction plans and specifications is required
by the Department prior to issuance of an encroachment permit for off-site
construction.
      (1)   Plan and specification contents; procedure for approval.
         (a)   Plans and specifications shall be submitted indicating that off-
site improvements are planned for the project in conformance with Town Code,
standards, regulations and requirements. These off-site improvement plans and
specifications shall be submitted in triplicate with all other building plans
and applications together with the plan review fee established by Council
resolution. The developer must obtain written approval from the Department for
all off-site improvement plans and specifications prior to issuance of a
building permit, encroachment permit or other permit necessary to commence
work.
         (b)   The off-site construction plans and specifications shall be
prepared and signed by a professional engineer who is qualified and registered
by the state to practice in the particular field of competency required by the
type of improvements.
         (c)   Engineering plans and specifications shall be in conformance
with accepted engineering practice and shall conform to the Town Code,
regulations and requirements and be prepared to the satisfaction of the
Department. Vertical and horizontal control surveys shall be tied and
referenced or two existing town-approved benchmarks and two section corners or
quarter comers. Incomplete or partial submittals will not be accepted.
      (2)   Subsequent plan review. Plans submitted three (3) or more times to
gain acceptance shall pay, in addition to the initial plan review fee, a plan
review fee for the third review and all reviews thereafter as established by
Council resolution.
      (3)   Approval.
         (a)   Approval of off-site construction plans and specifications shall
be valid as basis to issue construction permits for a period not to exceed one
year after date of approval. Approval of off-site plans and specifications
shall continue to be valid provided construction has commenced and that no
suspension or abandonment of the work has occurred. Plans for which
construction is not started within one year shall be resubmitted and shall be
deemed a new submittal and all fees and charges shall apply.
         (b)   Approval of plans and specifications by the Department does not
relieve the design professional of responsibility for errors or omissions and
for the correction of them and liability caused by their occurrence.
(Ord. 05-12, passed 7-12-2005)
§ 50.06 FEE FOR REVIEW OF OFF-SITE IMPROVEMENT PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   Plan review fees in an amount established by Council resolution shall be
paid at the time plans are submitted. The plan review process shall be deemed
started at the time first submission of preliminary or final subdivision or
site plans are accepted for review by the Department and the plan review fee
shall be paid before any review action is undertaken.
   (A)   Previously developed land. Fees for lands previously developed or
included in a previously approved development shall be in an amount established
by Council resolution.
   (B)   Double fee. Failure to secure a permit for off-site construction prior
to commencing work will result in a charge of double the amount of the first
review fees, as established by Council resolution.
(Ord. 05-12, passed 7-12-2005)
§ 50.07 INSPECTION AND TESTING OF OFF-SITE CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   During off-site construction, the town shall provide construction
review and review of materials text results to assess conformity to current
town standard specifications and drawings.
      (1)   Inspection of the work by the Department shall not be considered as
direct control of the individual workman and the work. The direct control shall
be solely the responsibility of the contractor.
      (2)   Any work done or materials used without inspection and testing or
test results approved by an authorized representative of the town may be
ordered removed and replaced. Failure to reject any defective work or materials
shall not in any way prevent later rejection when such defect is discovered nor
obligate the Department to final acceptance.
      (3)   The Department, for the purpose of expediting and facilitating the
progress of the work, may not inspect all materials, and each part or detail of
the work. The Public Works Director shall be furnished at any time with such
information and assistance by the contractor as is required to make a complete
and detailed inspection.
      (4)   No work will be accepted which is installed prior to dedication of
rights-of-way.
   (B)   Time limit. 
      (1)   Construction of off-site improvements in, upon or under public
places, rights-of-way or other public surface or subsurface drainage facilities
permit shall be continuously and diligently performed to completion, and
completion thereof shall be accomplished within one year after issuance of the
permit unless a shorter or longer time period is otherwise specifically stated
in the permit.
      (2)   This period may be extended if a hardship is acknowledged by the
Public Works Director for strikes, unavailability of materials, unseasonable
weather or other good and sufficient cause not caused by or within the
developer's or contractor's control.
      (3)   If the construction of the improvements is not commenced or if an
extension of time for completion is not granted, the plans shall be resubmitted
for review and approval and a new permit covering the work or the remaining
work to be completed shall be required.
      (4)   Fees required under such review and new permit shall be charged
according to the fee schedule in effect at the time the new review is requested
or new permit is issued.
   (C)   Fees for inspection and testing.
      (1)   Fees for inspection shall be paid to the town at the time a permit
is issued for construction work. The fee shall be in the amount established by
Council resolution.
      (2)   Any repetition of testing or inspection required because of
inferior materials or workmanship, as determined by the Town approved test,
shall be performed at the developer's expense and shall be paid to the town by
developer when notified by the Public Works Director or his designee. This
service does not relieve the developer or the contractor for the discovery of
errors, and the correction of them, nor of the responsibility of properly
performing the work.
   (D)   Street cleanup fee. A refundable street cleanup fee will be charged to
the developer at the time of plan submittal review. The fee will be in an
amount established by Town Council resolution. It shall be the developer's
responsibility to ensure that town streets are maintained free of construction
debris.
      (1)   Town inspectors will provide the developer or contractor with
written notice when violations are observed. The developer or contractor shall
have four hours, from the time of written notice receipt, to remove the debris.
Failure to respond shall result in the levying of an assessment against the fee
against the developer in the amount of the town's cost for street cleanup,
including an initial administrative charge as set by resolution.
      (2)   Upon subdivision/site build-out and the filing of a notice of
termination with the town of Public Works Department, the cleanup fee will be
refunded less any charges, including the administrative charge. If the fee was
depleted and additional cleanup was required, the outstanding balance will be
collected prior to final inspection.
(Ord. 05-12, passed 7-12-2005)
§ 50.08 APPROVAL, ACCEPTANCE, AND ASSURANCES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   (1)   Upon completion of all off-site improvements in accordance with
the town standards, the Public Works Director or his designee shall acknowledge
in writing acceptance of the off-site improvements and any on-site improvements
in the right-of-way. Acceptance shall be conditioned upon a two-year warranty
for workmanship, materials and equipment by the developer. After the lapse of
the one-year period dated from the letter of acceptance, the off-site
improvements shall be considered the maintenance responsibility of the town.
      (2)   If, during the two-year period, the developer is required to
replace or repair any off-site improvements or any public on-site improvements,
the developer shall secure a new encroachment permit without payment of fee to
cover the necessary work. Plans and Specifications together with the plan
review fee, for such replacement or repair shall be submitted for review and
approval unless, waived by the Public Works Director or his designee.
   (B)   Partial acceptance. If at any time during the construction of the off-
site improvements, the contractor substantially completes a unit or portion of
the off-site improvements, such as a structure, utility service, or a section
of the road pavement, the developer may request the Department to make final
inspection of that work. If the Department finds, upon inspection, that the
work has been satisfactorily completed in compliance with plans and
specifications, he or she may, in their sole discretion, conditionally accept
the work as being completed. Acceptance in such cases is conditional on the
remaining work being completed without damage and including any final grading
adjustments or other minor work. Such partial acceptance shall in no way void
or alter any plans and specifications.
   (C)   Final acceptance. Upon due notice from the contractor of presumptive
completion of the entire off-site improvements, the Department will make an
inspection. If all construction provided for and contemplated by the plans and
specifications is found completed to satisfaction of the Department, that
inspection shall constitute the final inspection and the Department will make
the final acceptance. The contractor will be notified in writing of this
acceptance as of the day of the final inspection.
   (D)   If, however, the inspection disclosed any work, in whole or in part,
as being unsatisfactory, the Department will give the contractor the necessary
instructions for correction of same, and the contractor shall immediately
comply with and execute such instructions. Upon correction of the work, another
inspection will be made which shall constitute the final inspection provided
the work has been satisfactorily completed. In such event, the Department will
make the final acceptance and notify the contractor in writing of the final
acceptance as of the date of the last and final inspection.
(Ord. 05-12, passed 7-12-2005)
§ 50.09 PERFORMANCE BOND OR CASH DEPOSIT; OFF-SITE IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The Development Services Department, building inspection
division, shall deny final approval and certificate of occupancy of any
building until the required off-site improvements and any on-site public
improvements are completed and have been inspected and approved by the Public
Works Director, unless performance of the off-site improvements and any on-site
public improvements is guaranteed by a performance bond, approved by the Town
Attorney and the Public Works Director, or a cash deposit is made with the town
in an amount fixed by the town. Under such circumstances, the Public Works
Director will grant a conditional acceptance. Warranty period will not begin
until the date of final (unconditional) acceptance.
      (2)   The town may require an occupancy clearance agreement to document
the requirements of this section. Model homes may be occupied for sales
purposes only subject to the occupancy clearance agreement and satisfactory
off-sites to service the models as approved by the town.
   (B)   Time to complete work.  The developer shall complete work required in
the approved off-site improvement plans promptly, but in no event more than the
time period set forth in the approval of the plans or other documents, after
issuance of the conditional acceptance by the Public Works Director.
   (C)   Bond return. 
      (1)   The performance bond or cash deposit or a portion thereof shall be
retained by the town to provide completion of the work should developer fail or
refuse to do so as in §
50.08(B).
      (2)   The performance bond or cash deposit or unused portion thereof
shall be returned to the depositor upon the final approval of the Public Works
Director after completion and acceptance of the off-site improvements.
Acceptance in such cases is conditional upon the remaining work being competed
without damage to the off-site improvement so accepted and including any final
grade adjustments or other minor work.
(Ord. 05-12, passed 7-12-2005)
§ 50.10 VALIDITY OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The issuance or granting of a permit or approval of plans and
specifications shall not be construed to be a permit for, or an approval of any
violation of any of the provisions of this code. No permit presuming to give
authority to violate or cancel the provisions of this code shall be valid,
except insofar as the work or use which it authorizes is lawful.
   (B)   The issuance of a permit based upon plans and specifications shall not
prevent the Public Works Director from requiring correction of errors in said
plans and specifications or from preventing construction operations being
carried on there under when in violation of this code or of any other ordinance
of the town.
(Ord. 05-12, passed 7-12-2005)
§ 50.11 DEFERRAL OF OFF-SITE IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The Public Works Director may direct that construction of off-site
improvements, or portions thereof, be deferred when such improvements are
impractical or premature because of traffic conditions, unavailability of
necessary right-of-way, the potential for creation of scalloped streets, or
other conditions detrimental to orderly development, and/or because of the
known and acknowledged formation or pending formation of an improvement
district.
      (1)   Engineering plans for all off-site improvements shall be prepared,
submitted and approved in accordance with §
50.05(B), whether or not construction is deferred.
      (2)   Infrastructure plans incorporating abutting, adjacent or other
benefitted property will not be required unless it is determined by the Public
Works Director that improvements have a direct impact on the abutting off-
sites, such as a bridge or railroad crossing on or adjacent to the parcel to be
developed, in such case common infrastructure plans will be required.
      (3)   Plans will include an analysis of drainage and establishment of
grades on both sides of the roadway for a minimum of 500 feet beyond the
project limits in each direction unless waived or reduced by the Public Works
Director.
      (4)   The developer of the property for which a deferral has been issued
shall enter into an agreement with the town which shall be recorded to run with
the land, and shall post financial assurance as set forth below to guarantee
the required off-site improvements will be constructed when directed by the
Public Works Director.
   (B)   Notice to proceed.
      (1)   The Public Works Director will give written notice to proceed with
the construction of the off-site improvements previously deferred when
necessitated by road condition, current or projected traffic, adjacent
construction, or other conditions which require additional access.
      (2)   The developer shall start construction of such off-site
improvements within 90 calendar days from the date of such notice, shall
continuously and diligently perform the construction and shall conclude such
construction within the time period set forth in the approval, but in no event
longer than 180 days (or such shorter or longer period of time set forth by the
Public Works Director in the notice to proceed) from the beginning of
construction, in accordance with plans approved by the town.
      (3)   If the developer fails to construction any of the off-site
improvements when directed, or fails to timely complete construction of the
off-site improvements, the town may construct said off-site improvements, or
may complete construction of said off-site improvements, and obtain payment
therefore from the surety issuing the assurance.
      (4)   The developer's obligation will be satisfied when all required off-
site improvements have been constructed by the developer or another party, or
when all required off-site improvements have been constructed by a community
facilities district or assessment district formed at the discretion of the
town.
   (C)   Performance bond. The Department shall require the posting of
performance bonds, letters of credit, assurances or such other security as may
be appropriate and necessary to assure the installation of all off-site
improvements. Said security shall remain in full force and effect until such
time as all required off-site improvements are constructed and accepted. In the
case of projects which are divided into a number of large parcels subject to
additional subdivision at a later time, only the major infrastructure necessary
to serve all parcels and adjacent land shall be subject to these requirements.
The form of the assurance must be acceptable to the Town Attorney and will be
in an amount fixed by the Department. Receipt of an acceptable assurance will
be required at the time of approval of improvement plans.
   (D)   Partial construction. When it is impractical for the town to accept a
financial assurance because the schedule for town off-site improvements is
undetermined or unreasonably far into the future, or if for any other reason
the off-site improvements are constructed by the developer, the Department will
order the construction of one or both sides of sufficient roadway necessary to
ensure an orderly traffic flow. The cost of construction of improvements beyond
the center of abutting streets or beyond the property limits (other than
tapers, two foot wide paving on the opposite side of the center line and other
transitional items) shall be applied toward the amount of the developer's total
obligation set forth in the benefit study, or the developer may enter into a
reimbursement agreement with the town of recover costs from other developers as
prescribed in division (H) below.
   (E)   Benefit study.
      (1)   If requested by the developer, a benefit study, paid for by the
developer seeking reimbursement or credit, shall be prepared by an engineer
registered and qualified in the state and selected by the town and utilized as
the basis of determining a developer's full off-site improvement obligation.
      (2)   Use of the benefit study is required to ensure that the costs of
the infrastructure common to or directly serving other property are equitably
borne by all property owners in the subject study area. The amount and the
purpose of the obligation for each property owner shall be stated in the
benefit study subject to adjustment for inflation based on the ENR Construction
Cost Index published by McGraw-Hill, Inc., and actual construction costs or
such other index selected by the Public Works Director.
      (3)   When development occurs in areas which have not been included in
benefit studies, the obligations will be estimated by the Public Works Director
or, at the developer's option, may be determined by a developer-funded benefit
study.
   (F)   Credit. When improvements are developer constructed, the developer
will be credited for the off-site improvements they construct against the
developer's obligation set forth in the benefit study. Off-site improvements
for which credit is applied must be those set forth in the benefit study, but
need not be those specific obligations set forth for any particular property.
Where possible, the credit will be established with physical quantities such as
lineal feet of curb and gutter, square feet of asphalt, and the like. Where
physical quantities cannot be established, such as portions of railroad
crossings, portions of canal improvements, and the like., the obligation to be
met shall be the estimated current value for the item as set forth in the
benefit study. The benefit study analysis and determination of credit for work
performed will be accomplished by the town's benefit study consultant at
developer expense. If the off-site improvements to be installed by the
developer do not satisfy the full obligation of the property as set forth in
the benefit study, the developer may:
      (1)   Install additional off-site improvements approved by the town,
credited at values established by the benefit study as opposed to actual costs,
up to the value of the developer's full obligation;
      (2)   Pay the cash differential which will be held in a trust account for
use only for the designated improvements; or
      (3)   Provide an appropriate security, in such form approved by the Town
Attorney, to guarantee construction of the remainder of the developer's
obligation when determined necessary by the Public Works Director as set forth
in division (2) above.
   (G)   Town participation. When development occurs prior to initiation of
town off-site improvements, the town will not be obligated to participate in
the off-site construction costs; however, when funds budgeted for town
participation in the off-site improvements are available, the Town Council may
authorize the use of such funds to defray the off-site infrastructure costs.
The amount of such defrayal shall not exceed the amount of town participation
set forth in the benefit study for the developer's property.
   (H)   Repayment agreement.
      (1)   When the value of off-site improvements constructed exceeds the
developer's obligation as determined by the benefit study, the developer may be
entitled to enter into a repayment agreement with the town to provide for
recovery of costs from others who develop later on land adjacent to the off-
site improvements constructed by such developer or otherwise directly utilize
off-site improvements constructed by such developer.
      (2)   To be eligible for repayment, all such improvements must have been
publicly bid in accordance with the provisions pertaining to public works
projects under A.R.S. Title or a public bidding process approved by the Public
Works Director in writing prior to advertising for bids, provided such bid
process, at a minimum requires:
         (a)   A minimum of three bids to be received on the project;
         (b)   The sealed bids are opened in the presence of the Town Engineer;
and
         (c)   The level of repayment is based on the low bid submitted,
regardless of whether that bidder is selected by the developer.
      (3)   In those cases where existing development will preclude property
owner repayment, the Town Council may, in its sole discretion, authorize
reimbursement from town funds subject to availability of funds. The Department
shall determine the amount of improvements eligible for repayment, and such
determination shall be made a part of the agreement. Repayment shall be made on
the basis of the benefit study. Procedures for establishing agreements and
collection payments shall be as set forth in §
50.31.
(Ord. 05-12, passed 7-12-2005)
§ 50.12 STREET FINANCING POLICY.
   The cost of all improvements of streets located on or adjacent to new
subdivision areas to be developed or redeveloped shall be the full
responsibility of the developer, except that when improvements are constructed
under assessment or community facilities district financing.
   (A)   Street improvement costs. The allocation of cost of street
improvements adjacent to already developed areas and within or adjacent to new
subdivisions or developing areas, whether platted or unplatted, shall be as set
forth below.
   (B)   Local. The allocation of cost of improvements to local and sub-
collector streets shall be the responsibility of the abutting property owners.
   (C)   Collectors and arterials. The cost of improvements to collector and
arterial streets shall be as follows:
      (1)   Where street improvements have not been previously constructed in
accordance with town standards, the abutting property owners shall be
responsible for costs of all street improvements to Town standards to the
street centerline adjacent to the property, including but not limited to curbs,
gutters, sidewalks, cement or asphaltic pavement, tree removals, ditch
removals, catch basins and retention basins, irrigation piping and structures.
Where applicable, the property owner shall share with other property owners the
cost of streetlights, traffic-control devices, striping; landscaping,
intersection construction, temporary pavement, pavement transitions, and
miscellaneous removals.
         (a)   Where medians are required, the owner of the property first
developing shall install the full median, including curbing, street lighting
and landscaping. The developer required to install a full median may request
the town to enter into an agreement providing for reimbursement of that portion
of the costs which would have been the responsibility of subsequent developers.
Reimbursement shall be made on the basis of front footage as determined by the
Department at the rate of half the front foot current cost less the
reimbursement transaction fee established by Council resolution which shall be
retained by the town to cover administrative costs.
         (b)   Reimbursement shall be made by the town upon receipt of payment
from the adjacent or abutting property owners. Such agreements shall be
requested of the town by the developer within one year from the date of
acceptance of such improvements and shall run for a period not to exceed ten
years from the date of execution by the Department, who is hereby authorized to
execute the agreements in accordance with the provisions of this section. The
agreements shall automatically terminate at the end of the ten-year period. The
Department shall establish in July, on an annual basis, the current cost of
construction of medians, streetlight and landscaping installations to be used
in determining reimbursement charges. Such current cost shall include
engineering, construction and inspection costs.
         (c)   Buy-ins for medians shall be collected by the town only when a
valid reimbursement agreement is in force. They shall be paid at the time of
plan or plat approval.
      (2)   Where the abutting property is an owner-occupied single-family
residential use, the costs for the improvement shall be calculated on the basis
of local street standards for that portion of the property frontage reasonably
related to the single-family residential use. Such abutting property owners
shall be responsible for the cost of one-half the width of the local street,
nearest the right-of-way property line based upon local street standards
together with the necessary curbs, gutters, sidewalks, and other miscellaneous
work required to construct the street improvement.
      (3)   Where the street improvements have been constructed in accordance
with town standards in effect at the time of the construction, the street
reconstruction shall be at no cost to the property owner if the construction or
reconstruction is initiated by the town or persons other than the property
owner.
      (4)   If the construction or reconstruction is undertaken by the abutting
property owner as an improvement to his or her property, the costs shall be
borne by the property owner in accordance with this section.
      (5)   If the construction or reconstruction is initiated by a third party
as part of an improvement to an adjacent or nearby property, the cost of
construction or reconstruction shall be borne by the third party unless the
property owner agrees to assume a share of the improvement costs.
(Ord. 05-12, passed 7-12-2005)
§ 50.13 SCALLOPED STREET ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Where the Town Council has determined that certain streets within the
town shall be constructed or improved prior to development of the property
adjacent to such streets, the Council may order such streets to be constructed
or improved at the town's initial expense. Such expense shall be assessed
against the adjoining property subject to the following:
      (1)   The assessment of property, if adjacent arterial streets are
involved, shall not exceed the cost of improving more than one-half of the
width, not to exceed 65 feet, nor more than 1,000 lineal feet of such adjacent
arterial street.
      (2)   Any parcel of land which at the time of assessment is used for
single-family residential use and the width of which does not exceed 200 lineal
feet shall not be assessed greater than one-half the costs of a local street.
      (3)   The assessment of property shall not exceed the actual costs
incurred by the town at the time of construction.
   (B)   Hearing procedure; determination of necessity.
      (1)   The Town Council, at a public hearing, shall determine the
necessity of street improvements if the cost thereof is to be assessed against
adjacent property. Notice of the hearing shall be given to the property owners,
and other affected persons, who would be assessed for the costs of
improvements, by regular mail no less than ten days prior to the date of the
hearing. An affidavit of mailing of such notice shall be filed in the office of
the Town Clerk. The notice of hearing shall contain:
         (a)   The name, address, and tax parcel number of each property owner.
         (b)   A description of the proposed street improvements.
         (c)   The estimated cost of assessment for each affected parcel of
property.
         (d)   The date, time and place that the Town Council shall consider
the necessity of improvement and possible adoption of a resolution of
intention.
         (e)   Notice shall also be published in a daily newspaper in five
successive issues and, in addition, shall also be conspicuously posted along
the line of the proposed improvement at least ten days prior to the hearing on
necessity of the improvements.
      (2)   The properly owners and any other persons directly interested in
the work or in the assessment may, prior to the time fixed for the hearing,
file in the office of the Town Clerk a written objection, briefly specifying
the grounds for objection.
      (3)   At the time of public hearing, the Town Council shall hear and pass
upon any objections to the proposed improvements; and its decision shall be
final and conclusive. It may modify the extent of the proposed improvements and
proceed without the necessity for republishing, reposting and remailing new
notices.
      (4)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Town Council may pass its
resolution of intention directing that plans, specifications and estimates of
the cost and expenses of the proposed improvements be prepared by the
Department and filed with the Clerk and order that a call for sealed bids be
made.
   (C)   Assessments. Upon completion of the improvements, the Council shall by
resolution, at a public hearing, determine the cost of the improvements and
assess against the properties adjacent to the street improvement the total
amount of the costs and expenses of the work. Notice of this public hearing
shall be given to the property owner, and other affected persons who would be
assessed for the costs of improvements, by regular mail at least ten days prior
to the date of the hearing. This notice shall contain:
      (1)    The name, address, and tax parcel number of each property owner.
      (2)   A description of the street improvements.
      (3)   The amount of the assessment for each affected parcel of property.
         (a)   The property owners and any other persons directly interested in
the work or in the assessment who have any objection to the legality of the
assessment or to any of the previous proceedings connected therewith or who
claim that the work has not been performed according to the contract may, prior
to the time fixed for the hearing, file in the office of the Town Clerk a
written notice briefly specifying the grounds for objection. At the time fixed
for the hearing, or at any time thereafter to which the hearing may be
postponed, the Town Council shall hear and rule upon the objections. The
decision of the Town Council shall be final and conclusive as to all errors,
informalities and irregularities which the Town Council might have remedied or
avoided at any time during the progress of the proceedings. If the Town Council
determines that an objection should be granted, the Public Works Director shall
reissue the notice of assessment. If the Town Council determines that the
objections shall be overruled, the Town Council shall adopt a resolution
overruling all objections and confirming the assessments.
         (b)   The Council's resolution shall provide that any assessments
remaining unpaid shall be paid prior to or at the time of the development of
the assessed property as set forth in division (E).
         (c)   The resolution declaring the assessment and describing the
properties against which the assessments are imposed shall be recorded in the
office of the county recorder, together with a specific written notice of the
assessment containing:
            1.   The amount of the assessment;
            2.   The legal description and the tax parcel number of the subject
property;
            3.   The name of the property owner(s);
            4.   The conditions which requirement of the assessment. When so
recorded, the amount so assessed shall be a lien upon the properties assessed
for ten years thereafter or until such assessments are paid, whichever first
occurs, and such recording shall be notice to all persons interested in the
contents of the record.
         (d)   Any assessment made under this section shall abate if the
property has not been developed within ten years of the assessment.
   (D)   Right-of-way. When it is necessary to improve a full street and
sufficient right-of-way is not available, the Department may obtain the right-
of-way from the property owner. If right-of-way is not dedicated at time of
construction, the cost to the town to purchase the right-of-way shall be
considered an expense attributable to the street improvements and shall be
assessed against the property at time of development.
   (E)   Collecting unpaid assessments at time of development. Prior to the
issuance of a building permit for development of the property adjacent and
abutting such improvements, the Town Council shall collect the entire amount of
any unpaid assessment on the property. All statutes providing for the levy and
collection of state and county taxes, including collection of delinquent taxes
and sale of property for nonpayment of taxes, are applicable to the assessments
provided for in this chapter. The Town Manager or his designee shall collect
any unpaid assessments prior to any of the following:
      (1)   The Town Council, Planning and Zoning Commission or Development
Services Director approving any request for rezoning or site plan for
development of any assessed property;
      (2)   The Town Council's approval of any final subdivision plat which
plat will result in a subdivision of property assessed under this chapter;
      (3)   The issuance of any grading permit required by the Town Code for
any assessed property. Upon payment of the assessment in full or in part, a
full or partial satisfaction evidencing payment shall be recorded in the office
of the Yavapai County Recorder.
(Ord. 05-12, passed 7-12-2005)
§ 50.14 PRIVATE STREETS.
   (A)   Private streets are subject to all requirements of public streets
except for street and right-of-way width but in no event shall such private
streets be less than 28 feet in width. They shall be reviewed, approved,
inspected and tested in the same manner as public streets and shall include
drainage facilities, curbs, sidewalks and streetlights built to town standards.
The minimum allowable width of the private streets will be determined by the
Department, in consultation with the Development Services Director.
   (B)   Permits and inspection. Any person constructing or installing private
streets or any other privately owned off-site improvement must comply with all
of the requirements of this chapter including but not limited to complete
inspection and testing for private streets for paving, curb, gutter and
drainage facilities.
      (1)   Parking lots and their associated access ways shall receive limited
inspection to ensure plan requirements for drainage and thickness of asphalt
and base course have been satisfied. Plan review fees and inspection fees for
limited inspection will be the same as the permit fees and related fees
established by council for public improvements. Other construction such as
sidewalks, streetlights and signs will not require plan review but will be
visually checked, by the off-site inspector for minimum requirements of
approved plans; and such requirements must be satisfied prior to project
acceptance. The distinction between private streets and parking lot access ways
will be determined by the Department.
      (2)   Street name signs and traffic-control devices shall be furnished
and installed by the developer in accordance with approved plans prior to
project acceptance.
(Ord. 05-12, passed 7-12-2005)
§ 50.15 TRAFFIC SIGNALS AND STREETLIGHTS.
   Traffic signal and streetlight reimbursement agreements.
   (A)   When a developer is required to install a traffic signal as part of
the development plan, the developer shall be entitled to enter into a
reimbursement agreement with the town to provide for recovery of costs from
owners of other comers of the intersection which are undeveloped at the time
the plans are approved. To be eligible for reimbursement, all such improvements
must have been publicly bid in accordance with the provisions pertaining to
public works projects under A.R.S. Title 34 or a public bidding process
approved by the Department in writing prior to advertising for bids, provided
such bid process, at a minimum requires:
      (1)   A minimum of three bids to be received on the project;
      (2)   The sealed bids are opened in the presence of the Town Engineer;
and
      (3)   The level of reimbursement is based on the low bid submitted,
regardless of whether that bidder is selected by the developer. The
reimbursement costs shall be computed by the Department based on actual
construction cost of the signal plus engineering and construction inspection
costs. Such determination shall be made a part of the reimbursement agreement.
The total of such reimbursement to the developer shall not exceed the total
costs as determined by the Department less the proportion of the costs
applicable to the developer's project. The developer shall furnish the
Department a certified copy of the actual costs when he or she requests the
reimbursement agreement. No reimbursement shall be received from others on
comers already developed. The Department shall determine the applicability and
the amount of buy-ins due when development occurs on the other corners of the
intersection. As a general rule, one-quarter of the total cost will be assessed
to each corner. Exceptions may apply when the size of a parcel or the amount of
traffic generated warrants a different assessment.
   (B)   When streetlights are installed by a developer on local or collector
streets, he or she shall be entitled to enter into a reimbursement agreement
with the town to provide for recovery of cost from others who develop later on
land adjacent to the streetlights installed by such developer. The developer
must bid the installation of the street lighting in accordance with the
provisions pertaining to public works projects contained in A.R.S. Title 34, to
be eligible for reimbursement. The Public Works Director shall determine the
amount of street frontage eligible for reimbursement, and such determination
shall be made a part of the agreement. Reimbursement shall be made on the basis
of street frontage at rates established by the Department. Such rates shall
include current costs for engineering, construction and inspection and shall be
reevaluated annually in July.
   (C)   All reimbursement agreements must be requested by the developer and
shall run for a period not to exceed ten years from the date of execution by
the Public Works Director, who is hereby authorized to execute these agreements
in accordance with the provisions of this section. The agreements shall
automatically terminate at the end of the ten-year period. No agreement shall
be approved and executed more than one year after date of acceptance of the
improvements, and no reimbursement shall be received from projects already
developed.
   (D)   Reimbursement shall be made by the town upon receipt of payment from
adjacent property owners, less the fee established by Council resolution per
reimbursement transaction which shall be retained by the town to cover
administrative costs. All agreements shall include the name and address of the
recipient of reimbursement payments, and it shall be the developer's
responsibility to keep such information current. Agreements may be assigned by
the developer upon written notification to the Public Works Director and
subsequent written acknowledgment.
   (E)   Buy-ins for traffic signals and streetlights shall be collected by the
town only when a valid reimbursement agreement is in force. They shall be paid
before the earliest to occur; final plat, or site development plan, is
approved, a building or grading permit is issued for work on the property, or a
change in zoning is granted by the Council.
(Ord. 05-12, passed 7-12-2005)
§ 50.16 DISPOSITION OF UNNECESSARY RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   If the Town Council determines that a public right-of-way owned by the
town is no longer necessary for public use, it may dispose of the right-of-way
either by sale, vacation or exchange of such right-of-way in accordance with
the requirements of state law.
   (B)   Reservation of easements. In the event there are existing utility
lines, pipes; canals, ditches or appurtenances in any unneeded right-of-way
being sold, vacated or exchanged, or if in the sole discretion of the town it
is probable that there will be a need for a public utility easement in such
right-of-way, the town shall reserve an easement or easements for such purposes
and of such size as the town may determine.
   (C)   Initiation of disposition of right-of-way. Vacation, sale or exchange
of unnecessary right-of-way shall be initiated by the Town Engineer or Public
Works Director. The initiation may be in response to a request from an adjacent
property owner, in which case the applicant shall submit an application in such
form and with such information as may be required by administrative regulation
and shall pay such fees as are established by resolution approved by the Town
Council.
   (D)   Decision to dispose of roadway. The decision to dispose of unnecessary
right-of- way lies solely with the Town Council and shall be made upon receipt
of staff’s recommendation.
(Ord. 05-12, passed 7-12-2005; Am. Ord. 12-95, passed 11-20-2012)
§ 50.17 ENFORCEMENT AND SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   Cease and desist orders. Whenever any work is being done contrary to
the provisions of this Code, the Department may order the unauthorized work
stopped by notice in writing served on any person engaged in the doing or
causing such unauthorized work to be done, and any such person shall forthwith
stop such unauthorized work.
   (B)   Appeal procedure. Any developer who has been aggrieved by a decision
of the Public Works Director or the Public Works Department, pursuant to action
taken in the enforcement of this chapter, to include benefit study standards,
criteria, limits, cost assignments, and the like, may appeal said decision for
consideration by the Town Council. Appeals shall be presented in writing to the
Public Works Director, who shall prepare a report and recommendation to the
Council and notify the appellant in writing of the time and place of the
Council hearing. The Council may modify these provisions in such a manner and
to such extent as it may deem appropriate to the public interest. The decision
of the Council shall be final and conclusive.
(Ord. 05-12, passed 7-12-2005)
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT REPAYMENTS
§ 50.30 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this subchapter shall
have the meanings set forth below, unless the context clearly indicates a
different meaning:
   BENEFITTED PARTY. The person or entity creating a demand for or otherwise
directly utilizing public improvements resulting in a special benefit for which
the benefitted party has not specifically contributed to the costs in providing
such public improvements.
   COSTS. The actual cost of:
      (1)   Right-of-way acquisition, excluding the value attributable to all
rights-of-way that would otherwise be required to be dedicated by the developer
or owner upon development of their property;
      (2)   Construction of the public improvements as determined by the
construction contract price or by the actual costs, such construction to
include, but shall not be limited to construction and installation of drainage
facilities, water pipes and lines, sanitary, irrigation, effluent and storm
sewer pipes and lines and all other appurtenances thereto, asphaltic and
concrete paving, curb, gutter and sidewalks, street lights, traffic signals and
public landscaping.
      (3)   Engineering and design fees required for preparation of plans and
specifications;
   DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT. An agreement between one or more parties and the town
pursuant to A.R.S. § 9-500.05.
   GENERAL PUBLIC BENEFIT.  That portion of the expense of the public
improvement that is for general public benefit and does not specially benefit
or increase the value of the property subject to reimbursement for public
improvements.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS. Any rights-of-way, any street, drainage, water, waste
water or sewer improvements or facilities; or any other public improvements,
include those financed by bonds, general funds, water utility funds or sewer
utility funds and are completed and accepted by the town.
    REPAYMENT AMOUNT. The charge which must be paid to the town and imposed
upon the owner of property which has or will receive the benefit of public
improvements benefitting or increasing the value of their property.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Land, whether or not improved or accepted for maintenance,
which by  deed, conveyance, agreement, payment, dedication, usage or process of
law is reserved for the public and occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, highway, alley, public utility, pedestrian walkway, bikeway, drainage,
curb, gutter, driveway, railroad, electric transmission line, oil or gas
pipeline, water lines and facilities, sanitary or storm sewer lines and
facilities, effluent lines and facilities, or for another public use. The usage
of the term "right-of-way" for land platting purposes means that every right-
of-way hereafter established and shown on a final plat is to be separate and
distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining such right-of-way, and are not
included within the dimensions or areas of such lots or parcels.
   SPECIAL BENEFIT. A benefit to or increase in value of a specific parcel of
real property from a public improvement.
(Ord. 05-12, passed 7-12-2005)
§ 50.31 POLICY.
   The sections of this subchapter intend to provide for the extension of
public improvements into or adjacent to undeveloped areas of the town by
encouraging the extension of such improvements and providing for the repayment
of the costs of such improvements, other than those costs which are for general
public benefit, by the owners of parcels which specifically benefit from such
improvements and which are not subject to any other special assessments or
special charges or fees for the benefit which they receive from the public
improvement.
(Ord. 05-12, passed 7-12-2005)
§ 50.32 CONSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Prior to a permit being issued for construction of public improvements
for which repayment is being requested, the following requirements shall be
met:
      (1)   A benefit study, paid for by the developer or property owner
seeking repayment, shall be prepared and utilized as the basis for determining
the obligation of the developer or property owner, the additional public
improvements to be installed that may benefit other property beyond the
obligation of the developer or property owner, and the level of repayment to be
paid for the additional public improvements constructed.
      (2)   A diagram or map describing all property which will be benefitted
by any public improvements to be installed shall be provided to the Department.
      (3)   The field engineering, plans and specifications required for the
public improvement may be prepared by the owner or the town. If prepared by the
owner, they must be approved by the Department or designee prior to
construction. The engineering costs for preparation of plans and staking of the
public improvements only, which are incurred by the owner or developer, may be
included as determined by the Department, or designee in the agreed
construction costs as provided in this section.
      (4)   For any public improvements which are constructed, the owner or
developer shall furnish and install to town specifications all facilities
within the boundary of the designated area of the development.
      (5)   Detailed plans and specifications for public improvements which are
extensions to existing public facilities must be approved by the Department
prior to construction.
      (6)   The project shall be bid in accordance with the provisions
pertaining to public works projects contained in A.R.S. Title 34 or a public
bidding process approved by the Public Works Director in writing, provided such
bid process, at a minimum, requires:
         (a)   A minimum of three sealed bids to be received on the project;
         (b)   The sealed bids are open in the presence of the Public Works
Director or Town Engineer; and
         (c)   The level of reimbursement is based on the low qualified bid
submitted, regardless of whether that bidder is selected by the developer. The
bids shall be opened by the town on a pre-determined date agreeable to the
owner or developer and the town. The town and the owner or developer reserves
the right to reject any or all bids. The construction costs shall be determined
prior to the commencement of construction and shall be approved by the town. In
the event that the agreed upon construction costs increase, the repayment
agreement may be amended upon approval of the additional construction costs by
the town.
      (7)   The town will perform the inspection during construction and shall
charge the owner or developer for the inspection of the public improvements.
The costs of such inspections may be included in any repayment agreement.
      (8)   The ownership of all public improvements upon inspection and
acceptance as meeting town standards shall be vested in the town.
   (B)   The property owners and any other persons directly interested in the
work or in the repayment obligation may, prior to the time fixed for the
hearing, file in the office of the Town Clerk a written objection, briefly
specifying the grounds for objection.
   (C)   At the time of public hearing, the Town Council shall hear and pass
upon any objections to the proposed repayment agreement; and its decision'
shall be final and conclusive. It may modify the extent of the proposed
improvements or methodology for allocating the total costs of the proposed
improvements, and proceed without the necessity for republishing and remailing
new notices.
(Ord. 05-12, passed 7-12-2005)
§ 50.33 AUTHORIZATION OF REPAYMENT AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Upon development of any property within the town limits for which a
public improvements will be constructed, the developer or owner paying the cost
of the public improvements may request the town Manager or his or her designee
on behalf of the town to enter into a repayment agreement to collect a portion
of the total costs of such public improvements from the developers and owners
of parcels specially benefitted by or directly utilizing the public
improvements located within or outside the town.
   (B)   Upon construction of public improvements, the cost of which were
financed by bonds issued by the town or a community facilities district, as
applicable, the town or community facilities district, as applicable, may
impose upon and collect repayment amounts.
   (C)   The town or District Manager is authorized to enter into repayment
agreements under this chapter. Such agreements shall be recorded in the office
of the Yavapai County Recorder.
   (D)   Any improvements constructed pursuant to §
50.13 shall not be subject to repayment agreements under this chapter in
addition to assessments collected pursuant to §
50.13.
   (E)   Those portions of public improvements constructed under this chapter
which are general public benefit shall not be subject to repayment under the
provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 05-12, passed 7-12-2005)
§ 50.34 REPAYMENT AGREEMENTS; TERMS; COLLECTIONS; AND COSTS.
   (A)   The repayment agreement shall designate the parcels and property that
is required to pay the repayment amounts and shall include a diagram or map of
the properties and respective amounts from which repayment amounts may be
collected. If the repayment bonds of the town or community facilities district,
as applicable, have been issued to finance the construction of the public
improvements and related facilities, the town shall receive all repayment
amounts and apply such amounts to the debt service funds of the applicable bond
issue.
   (B)   The repayment agreement shall set forth the total of the repayment
amount to be paid to the town or community facilities district, which the town
or community facilities district may agree, in the repayment agreement, to
repay such amount to the owner or developer who paid the costs of construction.
The total of such repayment amounts shall not exceed that portion of the agreed
construction costs of the public improvement allotted to the benefitting
parcels or property. The repayment agreement shall terminate no later than ten
years after it is fully executed and approved or when the total amount provided
for by this chapter is repaid, whichever is earlier.
   (C)   The approved actual construction costs as described in §
50.32 will be used for calculation of all repayment amounts. The repayment
amounts shall not bear interest.
   (D)   Upon payment of the applicable repayment amount to the town or
community facilities district, the owner or developer of the benefitted parcels
or property shall have the right to connect into the public improvement in
order to serve such property.
   (E)   The field engineering, plans and specifications required for a public
improvement shall be prepared by the owner or developer and approved by the
town prior to construction. The engineering costs for preparation of plans and
staking of the public improvements on the property which are incurred by the
owner or developer may be included as determined by the town in the agreed
construction costs under §
50.32. The town will perform the inspections during construction.
   (F)   The town shall have sole and exclusive control of connections to the
public improvement. Connections to the public improvement may only be made upon
issuance of a written permit from the town. It shall be unlawful to make a
connection to a public improvement without a permit. Such connections may be
removed by the town and the costs of removal assessed to the party making the
connection.
   (G)   Prior to the issuance of a final plat approval, grading permit,
building permit, or an encroachment permit to access town right-of-way for the
purpose of connecting to the public improvement, all repayment amounts due by
the owner or developer of the benefitted parcel or property shall be paid to
the town.
   (H)   An annual charge will be assessed by the town for the administration
of each repayment agreement. The annual charge shall be calculated based on
actual cost incurred by the town for the administration of the agreement,
however the annual charge shall not be less than $500 per year.
   (I)   Any owner or developer may assign the benefits arising out of any
reimbursement agreement with the town. Such assignments shall not relieve the
owner from their duties and obligations under the agreement. The assignment
shall require written approval of the town.
(Ord. 05-12, passed 7-12-2005)
§ 50.35 NOTICE OF INTENTION TO APPROVE PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The benefit study shall contain a map establishing the boundaries of
the area benefited by the improvements for which repayment is sought and shall
indicate the amount of charges for the public improvements each parcel shall
have to contribute to the cost of those improvements. The benefit study shall
contain:
      (1)   A description of the public improvements.
      (2)   A general description of the estimated total cost and a methodology
allocating the total cost to the benefitted parcels and property, such as cost
per frontage foot, cost per acre, or cost per equivalent dwelling unit of the
proposed public improvement.
      (3)   A description of the public improvement project area and a map and
list of all owners of real property who will be receiving a special benefit
from the construction of the public improvement.
      (4)   A determination of that portion of the public improvement which is
for general public benefit, if any, and that portion which is for special
benefit of the owner.
      (5)   A preliminary estimate of the portion of the public improvement
which will be financed with bonds, if any, by the developer or owner and with
repayments for the public improvements from owners or developers of benefitted
parcels or property.
   (B)   Those owners of real property within the area subject to repayment for
public improvements shall receive notice in writing of the proposed charges for
public improvements.
(Ord. 05-12, passed 7-12-2005)
§ 50.36 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Town Council, at a public hearing, shall review and approve the
benefit study and repayment methodology upon which repayment obligations will
be assessed against benefitted parcels or property. Notice of the hearing shall
be given to the property owners, and other affected persons, who would be
subject to the repayment for the costs of improvements under the agreement, by
regular mail no less than ten days prior to the date of the hearing.
   (B)   An affidavit of mailing of such notice shall be filed in the office of
the Town Clerk. The notice of hearing shall contain:
      (1)   The name, address, and tax parcel number of each property owner.
      (2)   A description of the proposed improvements.
      (3)   The estimated cost of the repayment obligation for each affected
parcel of property.
      (4)   The date, time and place that the town Council shall consider the
repayment agreement and possible adoption of a resolution of approval.
      (5)   Notice shall also be published in a daily newspaper of general
circulation in the town in five successive issues.
(Ord. 05-12, passed 7-12-2005)
§ 50.37 REIMBURSEMENT AMOUNTS PAYABLE TO TOWN.
   (A)   The repayment amount shall be based on the benefitted parcel's share
of the benefit received as compared to the total cost of the public improvement
as provided in the benefit study approved under 20-24. The repayment amount
shall be paid to the town or community facilities district, if applicable,
prior to the issuance of either a final plat approval, grading permit, a
building permit, or the issuance of an encroachment permit to access town
right-of-way for the purpose of connecting to the public improvement.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to extend service from a public
improvement to their property for which a repayment amount has been imposed,
without first paying the repayment amount and obtaining a permit issued by the
town.
   (C)   The repayment obligation under this section shall terminate in ten
years or when the total amount provided for by this chapter is repaid,
whichever is sooner.
   (D)   The town or community facilities district, if applicable, shall
collect repayment amounts for any public improvements financed by bonds, water
utility funds, sewer utility funds, or development fee funds, which were
specifically designated as subject to reimbursement from public improvement
repayments. Any owner who has paid all or part of the debt service upon any
bonds, the proceeds of which were used to finance public improvements shall
have no claim to the repayment amounts repaid to the town or community
facilities district, if applicable, under this chapter.
   (E)   Those portions of public improvements constructed under this chapter
which are for general public benefit shall not be subject to repayment under
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 05-12, passed 7-12-2005)
§ 50.38 ASSESSMENT DISTRICTS, IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS; GENERAL OBLIGATION BOND
PROJECTS; COST APPORTIONMENT.
   (A)   Upon collection of repayment amounts pursuant to any public
improvement ordered under §
50.36, which is located in a town or community facilities district, assessment
district, and financed by assessments, such funds shall be deposited with the
town or district, as applicable, Finance Director. The funds shall be applied
against the outstanding indebtedness for which bonds were issued.
   (B)   Repayments for public improvements pursuant to §
50.36 may be used in combination with a general obligation bond issue. All
amounts collected from such repayments may be deposited in the general
obligation bond fund from which the public improvement project is financed.
(Ord. 05-12, passed 7-12-2005)
Statutory reference:
   State Law Reference A.R.S. § 48-571
   State Law Reference A.R.S. § 34-201.2
§ 50.39 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The following table is the fee schedule for town engineering services,
which town staff must collect unless otherwise directed in this section.
Engineering - Right-of-Way Access and Encroachment Fee
Engineering - Right-of-Way Access and        Fee
Encroachment
ROW access - driveway access        Per app. $265
(including on-street parking)
ROW access - roadway access
(multiple parcels accessing right-  Per app. $265
of-way via non-town owned roadway)
ROW access - complex roadway access          Actual cost of professional
(when multiple roads, easements, or Per app. services and materials
ownerships access a town road)
ROW access - special events (road   Per app. $164
use or closure)
ROW encroachment - landscaping      Per app. $265
(including fences)
ROW encroachment - mailbox          Per app. $10
ROW encroachment - driveway         Per app. $265
ROW encroachment - utilities
(pulling wire, utility conduit,     Per app. $265
stringing poles)
ROW encroachment - renewal
(required for construction after    Per app. $164
permit expiration)
Penalty (for work performed without
a permit; includes issuance of the  Per app. Double base fee
proper permit)
 
   (B)   Reduced fees.
      (1)   The above fees shall be waived when the applicant is the town, the
County of Yavapai, the State of Arizona, or the United States Government, or
their dependents, agencies and divisions. This exception shall not apply to a
non-governmental lessee of governmentally-owned land. Other governmental
discounts may be negotiated through intergovernmental agreements.
      (2)   Fees may be waived by the Town Council, the Town Hearing Officer,
or Board of Adjustment to avoid undue hardship.
      (3)   If requested in writing, the Town Manager may discount the
engineering fees by up to 50% in cases where the following is proven:
         (a)   The fee payer (and family, if resident with fee payer) is
earning less than 200% of the federal poverty guideline and is required to
obtain town services by lawful authority (e.g., the town, another level of
government, or by court order); or
         (b)   The fee payer is permanently disabled.
      (4)   If requested in writing, the Town Manager may discount the ROW
Access - Special Events fee by up to 100% in cases where the following is
proven:
         (a)   The event is open to the public;
         (b)   The event is provided with no admittance fee; and
         (c)   The primary purpose of the event is recreation or entertainment.
      (5)   If requested in writing, the Town Manager may discount the ROW
Encroachment - Driveway fee by up to 100% in cases where the following is
proven:
         (a)   An existing ROW access-driveway permit exists for the driveway,
whether issued by the county or the town; and
         (b)   All conditions of the ROW access-driveway permit have been
satisfied and maintained.
   (E)   The Town Manager is responsible to interpret and apply the foregoing
fees in light of the Report for User Fee Study dated March 2010 (on file with
the Town Clerk). A fee payer may appeal the Town Manager's decision to the Town
Hearing Officer, but must do so within 30 days of the Town Manager's written
decision.
(Ord. 10-68, passed 4-20-2010)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall severely,
for each and every such violation and noncompliance, be punished as provided in
the town code and amended from time to time.
(Ord. 05-12, passed 7-12-2005)
CHAPTER 51: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Private road transition policy
Publicly Maintained Roads
   
51.15   Definitions
   
51.16   General regulations
   
51.17   Excavation and construction; special provisions
   
51.18   Utilities; special provisions
   
51.19   Variances
   
51.20   Duration of permit
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 PRIVATE ROAD TRANSITION POLICY.
   The town hereby adopts the Private Road Transition Policy as follows:
   (A)   Any neighborhood or group of property owners wishing to transfer
ownership and maintenance of a private road to the town will provide a written
request to the town identifying the portion of roadway to be transferred, the
names and parcel numbers of property owners adjacent to the roadway and
signatures of those property owners that are indicating support of the
transfer.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the request, town staff will review the request and
prepare a report identifying the condition, the required width, drainage
considerations, connection of the proposed roadway to existing town owned roads
and other factors that may be deemed relevant to the maintenance and ownership
of the roadway by the town. The report will also identify any improvements to
the roadway that may require resolution prior to being accepted for transfer of
ownership.
   (C)   Upon recommendation of the town staff for transition to town ownership
of the proposed roadway, each property owner will provide a survey of the
proposed roadway by a registered surveyor for his or her parcel.
   (D)   The proposed transfer will be placed on the next available Town
Council agenda for public hearing and consideration for acceptance of ownership
and maintenance by the town.
   (E)   Upon approval by the Town Council, property owners will transfer
ownership of the designated right-of-way to the town, and the town will arrange
for recording of modifications to each portion of parcels and property and
designation of the transferred right-of-way as town owned property.
   (F)   As of the effective date of the creation of the right-of-way, the town
will add the right-of-way to its assets and begin providing standard
maintenance of the roadway.
   (G)   Future paving of the roadway may be proposed by the town or the
property owners and may be financed by formation of a local improvement
district and/or town resources.
(Res. 07-49, passed 11-20-2007)
PUBLICLY MAINTAINED ROADS
§ 51.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENCROACHMENT. Any obstruction (whether temporary or permanent, unless
expressly authorized by law), any sign, any landscaping, any new driveway, any
new other road connection, the diversion of waters, any excavation (whether or
not conducted under a valid franchise), culvert installations (whether new or
replacement), and any other construction on or within five feet of the greater
of the ROADWAY PRISM or the PUBLICLY MAINTAINED ROAD. Specifically excluded
from the definitions of ENCROACHMENT is any tree planted prior to July 21,
2009, unless such tree poses a threat to life or safety.
   PUBLICLY MAINTAINED ROAD. The entire width of the right-of-way for any road
under the exclusive control of the town, whether held by deed, easement,
dedication, or other claim of right, including bridges, and which have been
included in the Town Road Maintenance System.
   ROADWAY PRISM. The traveled road surface, shoulders and ditches.
(Ord. 08-45, passed 10-21-2008; Am. Ord. 09-53, passed 8-4-2009)
§ 51.16 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No Encroachment within a publicly maintained road is allowed without a
written permit from the Public Works Supervisor, except by authorized town
employees, contractors acting under a town contract, and new subdivision
improvements for which the town holds financial assurances. No permittee shall
violate the terms and conditions of a permit without written authorization from
the Public Works Supervisor, and only when allowed by the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be operated or any other activity conducted on any
concrete or asphaltic concrete surface in a fashion which damages the road
surface or base without a permit from the Public Works Supervisor unless the
use is specifically authorized by law.
   (C)   No vehicle in excess of the A.D.O.T. limits for weight, length, width
and height shall travel on a public road without a permit from A.D.O.T. No
vehicle in excess of seven-ton capacity shall travel on a publicly maintained
road without a permit from the Public Works Supervisor.
   (D)   The Public Works Supervisor is authorized and instructed to prepare
specifications, application forms, and permit forms detailing the conditions
and restrictions under which the encroachment is allowed, which will include at
least the following:
      (1)   Culvert requirements;
      (2)   Paving requirements on and in the vicinity of driveways;
      (3)   Limitations on driveway access to arterial, major collector, and
minor collector streets; and
      (4)   Limitations on the number of driveways that may be created when
parcels are divided.
   (E)   Any permit issued is revocable at will, should it be necessary to
protect the public safety or to allow road expansion.
   (F)   The Public Works Supervisor is authorized and directed to charge a
permit fee in an amount authorized by the Town Council. The fee shall be
specified on the permit. No utility franchised by the county under A.R.S. Title
9, Chapter 5, Articles 1.1 and 4, which pays a franchise fee based on gross
sales as agreed to by the Town Council, shall be required to pay a permit fee.
   (G)   Emergency encroachments, including excavation for public utility
repairs necessary to protect the public safety, are allowed without a permit
provided a permit is applied for the next working day, all traffic control and
safety devices necessary are used, and final repairs are not performed until
authorized by the Public Works Supervisor.
   (H)   In the event an obstruction of a publicly maintained road occurs
within the roadway prism without a permit so as to cause an immediate public
hazard, the town may remove the obstruction and seek reimbursements of the
costs involved from the responsible person(s). In all other cases, the
provisions of A.R.S. § 28-7054 apply.
(Ord. 08-45, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 51.17 EXCAVATION AND CONSTRUCTION; SPECIAL PROVISIONS.
   The Public Works Supervisor shall prepare specifications to be included in
publicly maintained road excavation and construction permits. The
specifications shall include, but not be limited to the following:
   (A)   Traffic control, including signs specified in the Manual on Uniform
Traffic Control Devices;
   (B)   Procedures for repairing road cuts;
   (C)   A requirement for 95% backfill compaction within the roadway prism;
   (D)   A provision prohibiting pavement cuts for a period of five years after
completion or reconstruction of the pavement; and
   (E)   A requirement that any repair shall restore the road to the same or
better condition.
(Ord. 08-45, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 51.18 UTILITIES; SPECIAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   All utilities must be installed a minimum of 36 inches below the
finished surface. Cable television cables shall be installed as specified by
town franchise. In the event there are special public safety concerns in the
opinion of the Public Works Supervisor, three-dimensional, as-built drawings
may be required upon completion of construction. The town shall not be liable
for damages caused to utilities installed at a depth of less than 36 inches.
   (B)   In the event a public utility line within the roadway prism becomes
exposed or prevents roadway maintenance, the Public Works Supervisor may
require that the line be lowered or moved without expense to the town.
   (C)   Pursuant to A.R.S. Title 9, Chapter 5, Articles 1.1 and 4, the
requirements in this subchapter supersede the provisions of any utility
franchise.
(Ord. 08-45, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 51.19 VARIANCES.
   The Public Works Supervisor is authorized to grant variances from the
restrictions and conditions specified herein provided:
   (A)   The public safety and welfare will be protected;
   (B)   The costs to the town associated with the variance are fully borne by
the applicant for the variance by conditions on the variance, which may include
a payment requirement; and
   (C)   The Town Manager approves in writing.
(Ord. 08-45, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 51.20 DURATION OF PERMIT.
   A permit to excavate or construct shall be valid for 30 days from the date
it is issued. Permittees shall notify the Public Works Supervisor 24 hours
prior to commencing work and no later than the next business day after
completion. A copy of the permit shall be available at the location of the
work, and shall be made available to the Public Works Supervisor upon request.
(Ord. 08-45, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   The following penalties apply to a violation of §§
51.15 through
51.20.
      (1)   In the event the conditions of a permit are violated or a permit is
not obtained, the Public Works Supervisor may suspend the permit, if any, and
order that all work cease until the violation is corrected or a permit
obtained. If the work is abandoned and not repaired to town specifications, the
town may repair the work and recover the costs of repair from the person(s)
responsible.
      (2)   Any person commencing work without a permit shall be required to
obtain a permit and shall pay twice the usual permit fee.
      (3)   Any person who is convicted of a violation of §§
51.15 through
51.20 is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
(Ord. 08-45, passed 10-21-2008)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
[Reserved]
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   DOGS
         
91.   FAIR HOUSING
         
92.   [RESERVED]
         
93.   NUISANCES; ENVIRONMENT AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 90: DOGS
Section
Dog Control
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   General provisions
   
90.03   Enforcement; running at large
   
90.04   Release of impounded dog
Dangerous and Biting Dogs
   
90.15   Proper enclosure for dangerous dog
   
90.16   Determination of Town Magistrate
   
90.17   Control of dangerous dogs
   
90.18   Killing of dangerous dogs
   
90.19   Biting dogs
Maintenance; Nuisance
   
90.30   Maintenance
Enforcement
   
90.98   Citation issued to responsible persons
 
   
90.99   Penalty
DOG CONTROL
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADEQUATE CARE. The provision of a clean, safe shelter, which provides
protection from the weather, sufficient ventilation for hot and cold  seasons,
adequate food, water and exercise consistent with the normal requirements and
feeding habits of the size, species and breed of the dog(s), and veterinary
care when needed to prevent suffering.
   AT LARGE. Not on the premises of a responsible person and not under the
control of a responsible person. A dog is not AT LARGE if it is in a suitable
enclosure or physically-under control of a responsible person.
   CRUELLY MISTREAT. To beat, cruelly ill-treat, abandon, torment, overwork or
otherwise abuse a dog, torture or inflict unnecessary serious physical injury
on a dog or to kill a dog in a manner that causes protracted suffering to the
dog.
   CRUELLY NEGLECT. To fail to provide for a dog’s health or safety, including
but not limited to failure to provide adequate food, water, shelter, exercise,
or necessary veterinary care to a dog or to adequately confine a dog in a
manner appropriate to its species, breed, age and condition.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that bites without provocation, is known to have a
history, tendency or disposition to bite, or kills or causes injury, including
injury to humans or other animals.
   DOG. A member of the canis lupis familiaris and domesticated wolves and
offspring of dogs cross-bred with wild animals or domesticated wolves.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any person responsible for the enforcement of this
chapter.
   IDENTIFICATION. County dog license, rabies tag, microchip.
   MICRO CHIP. A device implanted in a dog, used for identification, usually
between the withers of a dog.
   RABIES VACCINATION. The administration of a rabies vaccine to animals by a
veterinarian.
   RESPONSIBLE PERSON. A person who has possession, care, custody or control of
a dog.
   UNDER CONTROL. Physically restrained by a leash, rope, cord or chain or
other device and under the direct supervision and control of a responsible
person unless in a training environment or on personal property and in direct
verbal control of a responsible person.
   WORKING DOGS. Dogs kept for the primary purpose of hunting, herding, search
and rescue, law enforcement, service dogs, guardian dogs, livestock protection,
or other jobs, under the supervision of a responsible person.
(Ord. 05-17, passed 10-18-2005; Am. Ord. 16- 124, passed 5-3-2016; Am. Ord. 17-
140, passed 9-19-2017)
§ 90.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
    (A)   Any dog over the age of four months shall have a current anti-rabies
vaccine and identification tag issued by Yavapai County, shall wear a collar or
harness to which is attached a valid rabies tag and a Yavapai County license.
Dogs shall not be required to wear a collar or harness with a valid rabies tag
attached while being used for control of farm animals, while being used or
trained for hunting, while being exhibited or trained at a kennel club event,
while engaged in races approved by the Arizona Racing Commission or while being
transported to and from such events, provided that they are properly vaccinated
and controlled on the property of a responsible person.
   (B)   No dog shall be at large except as provided herein. Dogs shall be
confined within a suitable enclosure capable of restraining the dog or
otherwise physically restrained to prevent entry of dogs on public or private
property other than the owner’s or on a leash of sufficient length and strength
to control the dog.
      (1)   Notwithstanding anything else to the contrary in this chapter, a
dog may run at large while participating in field trials, obedience classes,
kennel club events, organized school or park sponsored shows while assisting
its owner or are working dogs being trained, while hunting or herding
livestock, assisting a police officer engaged in law enforcement duties, or
while assisting a handicapped person in their daily actives if on personal
property and under control so long as the dog can be immediately leashed upon
any person’s reasonable request.
      (2)   A dog is allowed to occupy vehicles, including truck beds, without
restraint, but upon leaving a vehicle or truck bed, it is considered to be at
large.
      (3)   Nothing contained herein shall prohibit or restrict any activity
involving working dogs, whether the dog is restrained or not, if the activity
is directly related to the working, exhibiting or training of dogs, as pursuant
to Title 3 of the Arizona Revised Statutes.
   (C)   Dog care.
      (1)   No responsible person shall fail to provide his dogs with adequate
care.
      (2)   No person shall cruelly mistreat or cruelly neglect a dog or cause,
instigate or permit any dogfight or other combat between dogs or between dogs
and humans.
      (3)   The Enforcement Officer, on witnessing imminent danger and
believing that prompt action is required to protect the health or safety of a
dog may immediately impound any dog that appears to be cruelly neglected or
cruelly mistreated. The Enforcement Officer shall then request a hearing
pursuant to this chapter for the disposition of the impounded dog.
(Ord. 05-17, passed 10-18-2005; Am. Ord. 16- 124, passed 5-3-2016; Am. Ord. 17-
140, passed 9-19-2017)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 ENFORCEMENT; RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   Any dog which is running at large may be apprehended and impounded by
the Enforcement Officer. The Enforcement Officer shall have the right to enter
upon private property in order to apprehend any dog that has been running at
large, provided the Enforcement Officer is in reasonable pursuit of the dog.
   (B)   Enforcement officers may cause a complaint to be issued to the
responsible person. The complaint shall be subject to the provisions of A.R.S.
§ 13-3899.
(Ord. 16-124, passed 5-3-2016; Am. Ord. 17-140, passed 9-19-2017)
§ 90.04 RELEASE OF IMPOUNDED DOG.
   (A)   Any person requesting the release of an impounded dog shall provide
proof of an anti-rabies vaccinations, or shall obtain a rabies vaccination and
shall pay for the costs of impoundment. Proof of ownership may be required
prior to release.
   (B)   Any impounded dog which is not claimed within 72 hours shall be deemed
abandoned. Enforcement officers may take possession of abandoned dogs and may
place the dog for sale or may dispose of the dog in a humane manner. Any person
purchasing an abandoned dog shall obtain a rabies vaccination and pay the
applicable and impoundment fees.
(Ord. 05-17, passed 10-18-2005; Am. Ord. 16- 124, passed 5-3-2016; Am. Ord. 17-
140, passed 9-19-2017)
DANGEROUS AND BITING DOGS
§ 90.15 PROPER ENCLOSURE FOR DANGEROUS DOG.
   A dangerous dog shall be securely confined indoors or outdoors in a securely
enclosed and locked pen or structure, suitable to prevent the entry of young
children and designed to prevent the dog from escaping. Such pen or structure
shall have secure sides, top and floor, and shall also provide protection from
the elements for the dog.
(Ord. 17-140, passed 9-19-2017)
§ 90.16 DETERMINATION OF TOWN MAGISTRATE.
   (A)    If the Enforcement Officer has reason to believe a dog is a dangerous
dog, the Enforcement Officer may file a petition with the town’s Magistrate
Court for a determination that the dog is dangerous as defined in §
90.01.
   (B)   The Town Magistrate shall notify the responsible person for the dog of
the date, time and place of a hearing for a determination of a dangerous dog.
   (C)   Following the hearing, the Town Magistrate may declare the dog to be
dangerous as defined in §
90.01. Each day of non- compliance shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 05-20, passed 11-15-2005; Am. Ord. 16- 124, passed 5-3-2016; Am. Ord. 17-
140, passed 9-19-2017)
§ 90.17 CONTROL OF DANGEROUS DOGS.
   No person having charge, care, custody or control of a dog determined to be
a dangerous dog shall permit the animal off his or her premises unless the dog
is securely restrained by a responsible person who can physically keep the dog
in control.
(Ord. 05-20, passed 11-15-2005; Am. Ord. 16- 124, passed 5-3-2016; Am. Ord. 17-
140, passed 9-19-2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 KILLING OF DANGEROUS DOGS.
   Any law enforcement officer is hereby authorized to destroy any dog
determined to be a dangerous dog when immediately necessary to protect any
person or property.
(Ord. 05-20, passed 11-15-2005; Am. Ord. 16- 124, passed 5-3-2016; Am. Ord. 17-
140, passed 9-19-2017)
§ 90.19 BITING DOGS.
   The procedures set forth in A.R.S. § 11-1014 shall be followed for biting
dogs.
(Ord. 16-124, passed 5-3-2016; Am. Ord. 17-140, passed 9-19-2017)
MAINTENANCE; NUISANCE
§ 90.30 MAINTENANCE.
    (A)   Violation of this §
90.30 shall constitute a nuisance and a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a responsible person to maintain a dog that
excessively barks, howls, emits other noises or otherwise disturbs the peace
and quiet of nearby neighbors over five minutes or between the hours of 9:00
p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (C)   Maintenance standards. Premises on which dogs are kept shall be
maintained in a manner not to unreasonably interfere with the use and enjoyment
of the properties of others, including but not limited to compliance with the
following maintenance standards:
       (1)   Emission of odorous gases or other odorous matter shall be
contained in such quantities so as not to be offensive or create a public
nuisance or hazard.
      (2)   Dog waste shall be removed from pens, yards, cages and other
enclosures and handled or disposed of in an approved manner free of health
hazard or public health nuisance.
      (3)   Watering vessels shall be maintained to prevent the buildup of
algae and to prevent the breeding of mosquitoes.
(Ord. 16-124, passed 5-3-2016; Am. Ord. 17-140, passed 9-19-2017)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 90.98 CITATION ISSUED TO RESPONSIBLE PERSONS.
   (A)   For purposes of this section and §
90.30, the Enforcement Officer shall be the Town Code Enforcement Officer or
designee or the County Animal Control Officer.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to interfere with the Enforcement
Officer in the performance of his duties pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   Enforcement will only occur upon signed complaint and a preliminary
investigation to verify that a violation has in fact occurred.
   (D)   If the Enforcement Officer determines there is probable cause to
believe that a violation of this chapter has occurred, he may file a complaint
in the Magistrate Court and cause the complaint to be served on the person
alleged to be violating this chapter. The citation shall set forth the specific
violation with which the person is charged and the time and place of such
violation.
   (E)   Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (F)   Fines for violating the provisions of this chapter shall be adopted
from time to time by resolution of the Council. Any person charged with a
violation of this chapter who does not pay the fine shall appear in the
Magistrate's Court at a date and time set by the court for disposition in
accordance with §
90.99, unless all fines imposed have been paid at least 24 hours in advance of
the scheduled court appearance.
(Ord. 16-124, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
    (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   A person who is convicted of a violation of §§
90.02 through
90.03 is guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor. As a minimum penalty, a person
convicted hereunder shall pay a fine of not less than $50, which shall not be
suspended unless, at the discretion of the court, that person is ordered to
perform and complete a minimum of eight hours of community service.
   (C)   Any person violating the conditions of §
90.17 or is in charge of a dangerous dog as defined herein, may be fined in the
amount of $250 and be liable for reimbursement of any costs incurred by law
enforcement officials in the exercising of their duties.
(Ord. 05-17, passed 10-18-2005; Ord. 05-20, passed 11-15-2005; Am. Ord. 16-124,
passed 5-3-2016; Am. Ord. 17-140, passed 9-19-2017)
CHAPTER 91: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
91.01   Town action
   
91.02   Discrimination prohibited
   
91.03   Equal opportunity programs
   
91.04   Assistance in seeking equity or filing complaint
   
91.05   Awareness
§ 91.01 TOWN ACTION.
   The Town of Dewey-Humboldt shall undertake the following actions to
additionally "affirmatively further fair housing:"
   (A)   Adopt this chapter;
   (B)   Proclaim April as "Fair Housing Month;" and
   (C)   Post copies of this chapter at official town locations.
(Res. 08-51, passed 4-1-2008)
§ 91.02 DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED.
    The Mayor and Council of the town hereby wish all persons living, working,
doing business in or traveling through this town to know that discrimination in
the sale, rental, leasing and financing of housing or land to be used for
construction of housing, or in the provision of brokerage services on the basis
of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin is
prohibited by Title VIII of the Fair Housing Act Amendments of 1988.
(Res. 08-51, passed 4-1-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.03 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY PROGRAMS.
   It is the policy of the town to implement programs, within the constraints
of its resources, to ensure equal opportunity in housing for all persons
regardless of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national
origin.
(Res. 08-51, passed 4-1-2008)
§ 91.04 ASSISTANCE IN SEEKING EQUITY OR FILING COMPLAINT.
   Within available resources the town will assist all persons who feel they
have been discriminated against in housing issues on the basis of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin to seek equity
under existing federal and state laws to file a compliant with the Arizona
Attorney General's Office or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development.
(Res. 08-51, passed 4-1-2008)
§ 91.05 AWARENESS.
   The town shall publicize this chapter and thereby encourage owners of rental
properties, developers, builders and others involved with housing to become
aware of their respective responsibilities and rights under the Fair Housing
Amendments Act of 1988 and any applicable state or local laws or ordinances.
(Res. 08-51, passed 4-1-2008)
CHAPTER 92: [RESERVED]
   [This chapter has been reserved for future use]
CHAPTER 93: NUISANCES; ENVIRONMENT AND SANITATION
Section
Control of Excessive Noise
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Policy
   
93.03   General regulations
   
93.04   Exceptions
 
   
93.99   Penalty
CONTROL OF EXCESSIVE NOISE
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Any activity that occurs as part of the building,
demolishing, alteration or repair of any structure, facility, street, utility
or improvement.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any person responsible for the enforcement of this
subchapter and the regulations promulgated hereunder.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  Any car, truck, motorcycle, all-terrain vehicle or motorized
boat.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
corporation, municipal corporation, estate, trust or any other group or
combination acting as a unit, and the plural as well as singular number.
   PLAINLY AUDIBLE.  Any sound that can be detected by a person using his or
her unaided hearing faculties.
   SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEM. Any device, instrument or system, whether
electrical or mechanical or otherwise, designed for amplifying sound or for
producing or reproducing sound, including (but not limited to) any radio,
stereo, musical instrument, compact disc, tape, phonograph, loudspeaker or
public address system.
(Ord. 05-18, passed 10-18-2005)
§ 93.02 POLICY.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the town that creating,
permitting or allowing any unreasonably loud and disturbing noise within the
town limits is hereby prohibited. At and above certain levels, noises are
detrimental to the health and welfare of the citizens and occupants of the
town.
   (B)   It is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and it unlawful for any
person owning or operating or in control of any residence, business,
restaurant, hotel, dance hall, show, store or any place of public amusement,
entertainment or accommodation, to play or permit to be played any sound
amplification system in such a loud or unusual manner as to be offensive to the
senses.
(Ord. 05-18, passed 10-18-2005) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Sound amplification systems. 
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a sound
amplification system within the town at any time in such a manner or with such
volume that it is plainly audible or causes a person to be aware of vibration
accompanying the sound at a distance of 75 feet or more in any direction from
the operator or from any property line where the system is being used.
      (2)   If the sound amplification system is used in the normal course of
business for a commercial establishment, the sound from the system may exceed
limits set forth above between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
   (B)   Motor vehicles. 
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle which
shall not at all times be equipped with a muffler upon the exhaust thereof in
good working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual
noise.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the limits of the town
to repair, rebuild or test any motor vehicle between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner that a reasonable person of normal sensory
perception is caused discomfort or annoyance.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the town to use
compression braking (e.g., "Jake" brakes) at any time. It shall also be
unlawful to operate a motor vehicle in such a manner as to cause the tires to
squeal or screech upon acceleration.
   (C)   Construction activity. It is unlawful to engage in any construction
activity between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner that a
reasonable person of normal sensory perception would be caused annoyance or
discomfort.
(Ord. 05-18, passed 10-18-2005) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   Excepted are the following:
   (A)   Cases of emergency (in the interest of public health, safety and
welfare) with the written permission of the Mayor and Town Manager which
permission may be granted for a period not to exceed 30 days or the period of
the emergency;
   (B)   Cases where the Town Council determines that the public health, safety
and welfare will not be impaired and that loss or inconvenience will not result
to any party-in-interest, which permission may be granted prior to application
for a building permit or other permit issued by the town;
   (C)   Cases of public works construction of all kinds, repair or alteration
of public streets, utilities or other facilities, snow plowing, emergency
responses of every kind, or other public business or activities by any public
agency including its employees, officers, contractors or agents; and
   (D)   Operation of any and all emergency vehicles in the normal course of
their operations.
(Ord. 05-18, passed 10-18-2005)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person found to be in violation of any section of §§
93.01 through
93.04 shall be deemed guilty as follows:
      (1)   A first offense shall be deemed a civil infraction punishable by a
fine of not more than $50, which may be suspended at the discretion of the
Magistrate.
      (2)   A second offense, or first offense which is especially obnoxious,
shall be deemed a civil infraction, punishable by a fine of not more than $350.
      (3)   A third offense committed within 12 months shall be deemed a Class
1 misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than 2,500, imprisonment for up
to 180 days or any combination of both.
(Ord. 05-18, passed 10-18-2005)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   SALES REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 110: SALES REGULATIONS
Section
Sales of Ephedrine or Pseudo-Ephedrine
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Security of products
   
110.03   Requirement to report suspicious sale
   
110.04   Requirement to report sales
   
110.05   Effective date
 
   
110.99   Penalty
SALES OF EPHEDRINE OR PSEUDO-EPHEDRINE
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A duly authorized sworn officer of the Yavapai County
Sheriff's Department.
   PSEUDO-EPHEDRINE.  Any compound, mixture or preparation that contains any
detectable quantity of ephedrine or PSEUDO-EPHEDRINE or its salts, optical
isomers or salts of optical isomers. Product packaging that lists ephedrine or
PSEUDO-EPHEDRINE as an active ingredient shall constitute prima facie evidence
that it is a product containing ephedrine or PSEUDO-EPHEDRINE.
   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT.  Any business, store or other commercial outlet that
offers items for sale.
(Ord. 05-19, passed 11-1-2005)
§ 110.02 SECURITY OF PRODUCTS.
   Any retail establishment offering pseudo-ephedrine for sale must hold all
such products in an area that is not accessible to the public.
(Ord. 05-19, passed 11-1-2005)
§ 110.03 REQUIREMENT TO REPORT SUSPICIOUS SALE.
   The retailer will be required to report to the Sheriff's Department by
telephone any attempt by an individual to purchase amounts greater than what
would be reasonably considered for personal use.
(Ord. 05-19, passed 11-1-2005)
§ 110.04 REQUIREMENT TO REPORT SALES.
   The retailer will be required to maintain a written record of purchasers of
pseudo-ephedrine products that includes the date of sale, the individual's
name, address and quantity purchased. The purchaser log will be mailed to the
Sheriff's Department at the end of each month. In order to purchase pseudo-
ephedrine products, the purchaser must show government issued identification,
including but not limited to driver's license, passport, tribal identification
card or military identification card.
(Ord. 05-19, passed 11-1-2005)
§ 110.05 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be effective December 1, 2005.
(Ord. 05-19, passed 11-1-2005)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of any provisions of §§
110.01 through
110.04 shall be considered a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 05-19, passed 11-1-2005)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Curfew for Minors
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Offenses
   
130.03   Defense/exceptions
   
130.04   Enforcement
Fireworks and Explosives
   
130.10   Definitions
   
130.11   Use of fireworks; exceptions
   
130.12   Sale of permissible consumer fireworks
   
130.13   Posting of signs by persons engaged in the sale of permissible
consumer fireworks
   
130.14   Liability for emergency responses related to use of fireworks;
definitions
   
130.15   Explosives
 
   
130.99   Penalty
CURFEW FOR MINORS
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action.
   GUARDIAN.  A person who, under court order, is the GUARDIAN of the person of
a minor or a public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by an
authorized agency or court; or at least 21 years of age and authorized by a
parent or GUARDIAN to have the care and custody of a minor.
   INSUFFICIENT CONTROL. Failure to exercise reasonable care and diligence in
the supervision of the juvenile.
   MINOR. A person under 18 years of age.
   PARENT. A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent or step-parent of
another person,
(Ord. 05-15, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 130.02 OFFENSES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any minor under the age of 16 years to be in, about
or upon any place in the town away from the property where the individual
resides between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of the following day.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any minor 16 years of age or older and under the
age of 18 years, to be in, about or upon any place in the town away from the
property where the individual resides between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 5:00
a.m.
   (C)   It is unlawful for a parent, guardian or other person having
supervisory custody of the minor to knowingly permit or by insufficient control
allow a minor to violate the provisions of division (A) or division (B) of this
section, except as expressly provided herein. It shall not constitute a defense
hereto that the parent, guardian or other person having supervisory custody of
the minor did not have knowledge of the minor's violation of division (A) or
division (B) of this section, if the parent, guardian or other person having
responsibility for the minor, in the exercise of reasonable care and diligence,
should have known of the aforementioned unlawful acts of the minor.
   (D)   It is unlawful for a parent, guardian or other person having the care,
custody or supervision of the minor to fail or refuse to take custody of the
minor after such demand is made upon him or her by a law enforcement officer
who arrests the minor for violation of divisions (A) or (B) of this section as
listed.
(Ord. 05-15, passed 9-6-2005) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 DEFENSE/EXCEPTIONS.
   It is a defense to prosecution under §
130.02, including division (C), that the minor was:
   (A)   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian or an adult having
supervisory custody of the minor;
   (B)   With prior permission of the parent or guardian or an adult having
supervisory custody, in a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
   (C)   With prior permission of the parent or guardian or an adult having
supervisory custody, in an employment activity or going to or returning home
from an employment activity without a detour or stop by the most direct route;
   (D)   On an emergency errand;
   (E)   Specifically directed to the location by the parent or guardian or an
adult having supervisory custody, on reasonable, legitimate business or some
other activity, or going to or returning home from the business or activity;
   (F)   With prior permission of the parent or guardian or an adult having
supervisory custody, engaged in a reasonable and legitimate exercise of First
Amendment rights protected by the United States Constitution;
   (G)   Married and 16 years of age or over, or in the military; or
   (H)   On the sidewalk abutting his or her residence or on the next door
neighbor's property with the consent of the neighbor.
(Ord. 05-15, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 130.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Before taking any enforcement action under this section, an
enforcement officer shall attempt to ascertain the apparent offender's age and
reason for being in the place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make
an arrest under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an
offense has occurred and that, based upon the circumstances, the minor's
responses and minor's conduct, no defense as provided in §
130.03 is probably present.
   (B)   In addition to any other powers he or she may have, any law
enforcement officer who arrests a minor for violating any of the provisions of
§
130.02(A) or (B) is also hereby empowered to demand of the parent, guardian or
adult having supervisory custody that the parent, guardian or other adult come
and take the minor into custody. The law enforcement officer is also empowered
to take the minor to a designated location where arrangements can be made for a
parent, guardian, an adult having supervisory custody or other appropriate part
to take the minor into custody. Should there be a failure of the parent,
guardian or other person to take custody of the minor, the officer may then be
empowered to take the minor home.
(Ord. 05-15, passed 9-6-2005)
FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES
§ 130.10 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases when used in this subchapter, have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSUMER FIREWORK. Those fireworks defined by A.R.S. § 36-1601.
   DISPLAY FIREWORK. Those fireworks defined by A.R.S § 36-1601.
   EXPLOSIVES. Any dynamite, nitroglycerine, black powder, or other similar
explosive materials, including plastic explosives. EXPLOSIVES does not include
ammunition or ammunition components such as primers, percussion caps, smokeless
powder, black powder and black powder substitutes used for hand loading
purposes.
   FIRE CHIEF. The Chief of the Central Yavapai Fire District.
   FIREWORKS. Any combustible or explosive composition, substance or
combination of substances, or any article prepared for the purpose of producing
a visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration or
detonation, that is a consumer firework or display firework as defined by A.R.S
§ 36-1601.
   NOVELTY ITEMS. Federally deregulated novelty items that are known as
snappers, snap caps, party poppers, glow worms, snakes, toy smoke devices,
sparklers, and certain toys.
   PERMISSIBLE CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Those fireworks as defined by A.R.S § 36-
1601.
   SUPERVISED PUBLIC DISPLAY. A monitored performance of display fireworks open
to the public and authorized by permit by the town.
(Ord. 14-107, passed 9-2-2014)
§ 130.11 USE OF FIREWORKS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The use, discharge or ignition of fireworks and permissible consumer
fireworks, within the town is prohibited except as provided for in this
section.
   (B)   The use of permissible consumer fireworks is prohibited within the
corporate limits of the town except from June 24 through July 6 and December 24
through January 3 each year. The use of permissible consumer fireworks is also
prohibited when a federal or state agency implements stage one fire
restrictions in any portion of Yavapai County in effect for any one or more of
the days listed in this subsection.
   (C)   Nothing in this section or subchapter shall be construed to prohibit
the use, discharge or ignition of novelty items or the occurrence of a
supervised public display of fireworks.
   (D)   Permits may be granted by the town for conducting a properly
supervised public display of fireworks. Every such supervised public display of
fireworks shall be of such character and so located, discharged or fired, only
after proper inspection and in a manner that does not endanger persons,
animals, or property. A permit shall not be issued, and may be revoked, during
time periods of high fire danger warnings. No such permit shall be issued
unless reviewed and approved by the Fire Chief who has authority to and may
impose reasonable conditions on any permits granted.
(Ord. 14-107, passed 9-2-2014)
§ 130.12 SALE OF PERMISSIBLE CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
   (A)   No person shall sell or permit or authorize the sale of permissible
consumer fireworks to a person who is under 16 years of age.
   (B)   No person shall sell or permit or authorize the sale of permissible
consumer fireworks in conflict with state law.
   (C)   The sale of permissible consumer fireworks is prohibited within the
corporate limits of the town except from May 20 through July 6 and December 10
through January 3 each year. The sale of permissible consumer fireworks is also
prohibited when a federal or state agency implements Stage One Fire
Restrictions in any portion of Yavapai County in effect for any one or more of
the days listed in this division.
(Ord. 14-107, passed 9-2-2014)
§ 130.13 POSTING OF SIGNS BY PERSONS ENGAGED IN THE SALE OF PERMISSIBLE
CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Prior to the sale of permissible consumer fireworks, every person
engaged in such sales shall prominently display signs indicating the following:
      (1)   The use of fireworks and permissible consumer fireworks, except
novelty items as defined in this subchapter is prohibited within the limits of
the Town of Dewey-Humboldt except from June 24 through July 6 and December 24
through January 3 each year.
      (2)   Permissible consumer fireworks authorized for sale under state law
may not be sold to persons under the age of 16.
   (B)   Signs required under this section shall be placed at each cash
register and in each area where fireworks are displayed for sale.
   (C)   The town, in collaboration with the Fire Chief or his designee, shall
develop regulations concerning the size and color of the required signs and
shall develop a model sign. The required sign regulations and model sign shall
be posted on the town's website and filed with the Clerk's office.
(Ord. 14-107, passed 9-2-2014)
§ 130.14 LIABILITY FOR EMERGENCY RESPONSES RELATED TO USE OF FIREWORKS;
DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   A person who inappropriately or negligently uses, discharges or
ignites permissible consumer fireworks, fireworks or anything that is designed
or intended to rise into the air and explode or to detonate in the air or to
fly above the ground, is liable for the expenses of any emergency response that
is required by such use, discharge or ignition. The fact that a person is
convicted or found responsible for a violation(s) of this subchapter is prima
facie evidence of liability under this section.
   (B)   The expenses of an emergency response are a charge against the person
liable for those expenses pursuant to division (A) of this section. The charge
constitutes a debt of that person and may be collected proportionately by the
public agencies, for-profit entities or not-for profit entities that incurred
the expenses. The person's liability for the expense of an emergency response
shall not exceed $10,000 for a single incident. The liability imposed under
this section is in addition to and not in limitation of any other liability
that may be imposed.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      (1)   EXPENSES OF AN EMERGENCY RESPONSE. Reasonable costs directly
incurred by public agencies, for-profit entities or not-for-profit entities
that make an appropriate emergency response to an incident.
      (2)   REASONABLE COSTS. Includes the costs of providing police,
firefighting, rescue and emergency medical services at the scene of an incident
and the salaries of the persons who respond to the incident.
(Ord. 14-107, passed 9-2-2014)
§ 130.15 EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   It is unlawful and a public nuisance for any person within the limits
of the town to possess, blast or use explosives without a permit from the town,
as reviewed and approved by the Fire Chief.
   (B)   Failure to comply with any municipal, county, state and federal laws,
rules and regulations related to the possession, sale and use of explosives
within the town shall be deemed a violation of this code.
(Ord. 14-107, passed 9-2-2014)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates division (A), (B) or (D) of §
130.02 is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor. This offense is designated as an
incorrigible offense for minors under the jurisdiction of the Juvenile Court.
      (2)   Any person who violates §
130.02(C) shall be guilty of a petty offense.
      (3)   No fine imposed for violation of §§
130.01 through
130.04 shall exceed the maximum provided by statute for a petty offense.
      (4)   Each violation of the provisions of §
130.02 shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   A person found guilty of a violation of any provision in §§
130.11 through
130.14 shall be subject to a civil penalty of $1,000.
   (D)   A person found guilty of violating any provision of §
130.15 shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof
shall be punishable by a fine or by imprisonment or both such fine and
imprisonment, as set forth in §
10.99(B) of the Dewey-Humboldt Code of Ordinances. Each day that a violation
continues shall be a separate offense punishable as herein described.
(Ord. 05-15, passed 9-6-2005; Am. Ord. 14-107, passed 9-2-2014)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING CODES
         
151.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
         
152.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
         
153.   ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODES
Section
Codes Adopted
   
150.01   Administrative Code
   
150.02   Building Code
   
150.03   Residential One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code
   
150.04   Plumbing Code
   
150.05   Mechanical Code
   
150.06   Fuel Gas Code
   
150.07   Electrical Code
   
150.08   Grading Ordinance Code
   
150.09   Existing Building Code
   
150.10   Swimming Pool and Spa Code
   
150.11   Energy Conservation Code
   
150.12   Arizonans with Disabilities Act
   
Appendix A:   Valuation and Fee Schedules
CODES ADOPTED
§ 150.01 ADMINISTRATIVE CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. There is hereby adopted by reference in Resolution 21-162,
that certain document known as Chapter 1 Scope and Administration of the
International Building Code, 2018 Edition, as published by the International
Code Council. Said document is hereby amended and adopted as the Administrative
Building Code for the Town of Dewey-Humboldt for regulating and governing the
conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and structures; by
providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other
physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe,
sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of buildings and
structures unfit for human occupancy and use and the demolition of such
structures as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and
collection of fees therefore; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions, and terms of the Dewey- Humboldt Arizona Building and
Construction Codes, April 2021. Providing procedures for enforcement thereof;
providing the severability of each and all conditions and terms of the Dewey-
Humboldt Administrative Building Code are hereby referred to, adopted, and made
a part hereof as set forth herein, excepting such portions as are hereinafter
deleted, modified or amended as set forth below.
   (B)   (1)   Amendments.
   CHAPTER 1 SCOPE AND ADMINISTRATION
SECTION 101 — GENERAL
SECTION 101.1 — Title is deleted in its entirety and revised to read as
follows:
   101.1 — Title. These regulations shall be known as the Dewey-Humboldt
Administrative Building Code for the areas of Dewey-Humboldt, hereinafter
referred to as "this code."
SECTION 101.2 — Scope is hereby amended by deletion of Exceptions and insertion
of new Exceptions to read as follows:
   Exceptions. Except as specifically limited or exempted, this code and the
technical codes shall apply to all construction within the areas of Dewey-
Humboldt:
   1.   Federal Land. Private development on Federal land shall not be
exempted.
   2.   Indian Tribal Land.
   3.   Items pursuant to A.R.S. § 11-865.
A.   The provisions of this article shall not be construed to apply to:
   1.   Construction or operation incidental to construction and repair to
irrigation and drainage ditches or appurtenances thereto, of regularly
constituted districts or reclamation districts, or to farming, dairying,
agriculture, viticulture, horticulture or stock or poultry raising, or clearing
or other work upon land in rural areas for fire prevention purposes.
   2.   Devices used in manufacturing, processing, or fabricating normally
considered as involved in industry and construction, operation and maintenance
of electric, gas or other public utility systems operated by public service
corporations operating under a franchise or certificate of convenience and
necessity.
B.   Notwithstanding of this subsection A, of this section, the requirements of
this article apply to the use or occupation of land or improvements by a person
or entity consisting of or including changing, remanufacturing or treating
human sewage or sludge for distribution or resale.
   4.   Live/work units complying with the requirements of the adopted Building
Code as referenced herein shall be permitted to be built as detached one- and
two-family dwellings or multiple single-family dwellings (townhouses) in
accordance with the adopted Residential Code as referenced herein.
   5.   Owner-occupied lodging houses with five or fewer guestrooms shall be
permitted to be constructed in accordance with the adopted Residential Code as
referenced herein.
   6.   Detached one- and two-family dwellings and multiple single-family
dwellings (townhouses) not more than three stories above grade plane in height
with a separate means of egress and their accessory structures shall comply
with the adopted Residential Code as referenced herein.
SECTION 101.2.1 — Appendices. Is hereby deleted in its entirety and revised to
read as follows:
   101.2.1 — Appendices. Provisions in the appendices shall not apply unless
specifically adopted by ordinance for each referenced technical code.
SECTION 101.2.2 — Amendment. Is hereby added as an additional section to read
as follows:
   101.2.2 — Amendment. This document and the referenced technical codes may be
amended from time to time by ordinance.
SECTION 101.4 — Referenced codes is hereby deleted in its entirety and revised
to read as follows:
   101.4 — Referenced technical codes. The technical codes listed in Sections
101.4.1 through 101.4.13 and referenced elsewhere in this code and as adopted
by Dewey-Humboldt shall be considered part of the requirements of this code to
the prescribed extent of each such reference.
   101.4.1 — Building Code. The provisions of the 2018 Edition of the
International Building Code shall apply to the construction, alteration,
relocation, enlargement, replacement, repair, equipment, use and occupancy,
location, maintenance, removal and demolition of buildings or structures or any
appurtenances connected or attached to such buildings or structures.
   101.4.2 — Electrical Code. The provisions of the 2017 Edition of the
National Electrical Code shall apply to the installation of electrical systems,
including alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment, appliances, fixtures,
fittings and appurtenances thereto.
   101.4.3 — Gas Code. The provisions of the 2018 Edition of the International
Fuel Gas Code shall apply to the installation of gas piping from the point of
delivery, gas appliances and related accessories as covered in this code. These
regulations apply to gas piping systems extending from the point of delivery to
the inlet connections of appliances and the installation and operation of
residential and commercial gas appliances and related accessories.
   101.4.4 — Mechanical Code. The provisions of the 2018 Edition of the
International Mechanical Code shall apply to the installation, alterations,
repairs and replacement of mechanical systems, including equipment, appliances,
fixtures, fittings and/or appurtenances, including ventilation heating,
cooling, air conditioning and refrigeration systems, incinerators and other
energy-related systems.
   101.4.5 — Plumbing Code. The provisions of the 2018 Edition of the
International Plumbing Code shall apply to the installation, alteration, repair
and replacement of plumbing systems, including equipment, appliances, fixtures,
fittings and appurtenances, and where connected to a water or sewage system and
all aspects of a medical gas system.
   101.4.6 — Fire Protection (Fire Codes). The provisions of adopted fire codes
as enforced by Central Arizona Fire and Medical Authority having approved
authorization granted by the State of Arizona Office of the State Fire Marshall
shall apply to matters affecting or relating to fire prevention. Such current
regulations and ordinances shall apply to matter affecting or relating to
structures, processes and premises from the hazard of fire and explosion
arising from the storage, handling or use of structures, materials or devices;
from conditions hazardous to life, property or public welfare in the occupancy
of structures or premises; and from construction, extension, repair, alteration
or removal of fire suppression, automatic sprinkler systems and alarms systems
or fire hazards in the structure or on the premises from occupancy or
operation. These provisions as hereby amended for fire prevention shall also
apply to detached one- and two-family dwelling and multiple single-family
dwelling and their accessory structures.
   101.4.7 — Energy Code. The provisions of the 2006 Edition of the
"International Energy Conservation Code" as adopted and amended in §
150.10 of the Town of Dewey-Humboldt Code of Ordinances and Town of Dewey-
Humboldt Ordinance 09-48 shall apply to all matters governing the design and
construction of building for energy efficiency.
   101.4.8 — Flood Control Code. The provisions of ordinances and regulations
are applicable to the Yavapai County Flood Control District shall apply to all
matters affecting flooding. All references as may be noted within the technical
codes as adopted by Dewey-Humboldt Building Safety that pertain to flooding -
flood control projects - flood resistant construction - flood hazard areas
shall be controlled and regulated by the Yavapai County Flood Control District.
   101.4.9 — Residential Code. The provisions of the 2018 Edition of the
International Residential Code for One-and Two-Family Dwellings shall apply to
the construction, alteration, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair,
equipment use and occupancy, location, removal and demolition of detached one-
and two- family dwellings and multiple single-family dwellings (townhouses) and
their accessory structures.
   101.4.10 — Grading Code. The provisions of Ordinance 2021-09 - Dewey-
Humboldt Grading Ordinance shall apply to excavation, grading, and earthwork
construction, including fills, and embankments pertaining to all aspects of
grading construction on private property.
   101.4.11 — Existing Building Code. The provisions of the 2018 Edition of the
International Existing Building Code shall apply to the repair, change of
occupancy, and relocation of existing buildings and structures.
   101.4.12 — Swimming Pool Code. The provisions of the 2018 Edition of the
"International Swimming Pool and Spa Code" and A.R.S. § 36-1681 shall apply to
the construction, alteration, movement, renovation, replacement, repair and
maintenance of aquatic vessels.
SECTION 102 — APPLICABILITY AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION 102.4.1 — Conflicts is hereby amended by the addition of the following
exception to read as follows:
   102.4.1 — Conflicts.
      Exception: Where enforcement of any code provision would violate the
conditions of approved listings of equipment or material, the conditions of the
listing and the manufacture's installation instructions of listed equipment or
material may be considered by the building official.
SECTION 102.6 — Existing Structures is deleted in its entirety and revised to
read as follows:
   102.6 — Existing Structures. The legal occupancy of any structure existing
on the date of adoption of this code shall be permitted to continue without
change, except as is specifically covered in this code, or as is deemed
necessary by the building official for the general safety and welfare of the
occupants and the public.
SECTION 102.7 — Existing Building Systems is hereby added as a new section to
read as follows:
   102.7 — Existing Building Systems. Plumbing, fuel gas, mechanical or
electrical systems lawfully in existence at the time of the adoption of this
code shall be permitted to have their use and maintenance continued if the use,
maintenance or repair is in accordance with the original design and no hazard
to life, health or property is created by such existing systems.
SECTION 102.8 — Additions, Alterations or Repairs is hereby added as a new
section to read as follows:
   102.8 — Additions, Alterations or Repairs. Additions, alterations or repairs
to any structure or mechanical, plumbing, fuel gas or electrical systems shall
conform to the requirements for a structure or system without requiring the
existing structure or system to comply with all requirements of this code,
unless otherwise stated. Additions, alterations or repairs shall not cause an
existing structure or system to become unsafe, hazardous, overloaded or
adversely affect the performance of the structure or system.
SECTION 102.9 — Historic Buildings is hereby added as a new section to read as
follows:
   102.9 — Historic Buildings. The provisions of this code relating to the
construction, alteration, repair, enlargement, restoration, relocation or
moving of buildings or structures shall not be mandatory for existing building
or structures identified and classified by the state as historic building or as
is deemed necessary by the building official for the general safety and welfare
of the occupants and the public regarding any proposed construction,
alteration, repair, enlargement, restoration, relocation or moving of
buildings.
SECTION 102.10 — Change in Occupancy is hereby added as a new section to read
as follows:
   102.10 — Change in Occupancy. It shall be unlawful to make a change in the
occupancy of any structure which will subject the structure to any special
provisions of this code applicable to the new occupancy without approval. The
building official shall certify that such structures meets the intent of the
provisions of law governing building construction for the proposed new
occupancy and that such a change of occupancy does not result in any hazard to
the public health, safety or welfare.
SECTION 102.11 — Moved Buildings is hereby added as a new section to read as
follows:
   102.11 — Moved Buildings. Except as determined by section 102.7, plumbing,
fuel gas, mechanical, or electrical systems that are a part of buildings or
structures moved into or within the jurisdiction shall comply with provisions
of this code for new installations.
SECTION 102.12 — Maintenance is hereby added as a new section to read as
follows:
   102.12 — Maintenance. Mechanical, Plumbing, Fuel Gas and Electrical systems,
both existing and new, and parts thereof shall be maintained in proper
operational condition in accordance with the original design and in a safe and
sanitary condition. Devices or safeguards which are required by this code shall
be maintained in compliance with the code edition under which they were
installed. The owner or the owner's designated agent shall be responsible for
maintenance of all systems. To determine compliance with this provision, the
building official shall have the authority to require a system to be inspected.
SECTION 102.13 — Definitions is hereby added as a new section to read as
follows:
   102.13 — Definitions. For the purpose of this code, certain terms, phrases,
words and their derivatives shall be construed as specified in this section.
The definition within the specific adopted technical codes shall be construed
to apply to that code. Where terms are not defined through the methods
authorized by this section, such terms shall have the ordinarily accepted
meaning such as the context implies. Webster's Third New International
Dictionary of the English Language, Unabridged, shall be considered as
providing ordinarily accepted meaning.
   ADDITION — An extension or increase in floor area or height of a building or
structure.
   ADMINISTRATIVE BUILDING CODE — The Dewey-Humboldt Administrative Building
Code as set forth within Ordinance 21-159, as adopted by this Jurisdiction.
   APPROVED — Acceptable to the building official or authority having
jurisdiction.
   APPROVED AGENCY — An established and recognized agency regularly engaged in
conducting tests or furnishing inspection services, when such agency has been
approved by the building official.
   BASEMENT, UNFINISHED — An unheated portion or area not intended as a
habitable space and limited to storage, housing of mechanical equipment,
general work area or similar uses. If there is plumbing in this area, it will
be limited to capped rough-in plumbing drains, floor drains, and water and
drain lines serving mechanical equipment. There will be no other framing for
interior walls other than as required for structural support. The area will not
be insulated other than the ceiling/floor separation. The ceiling height may be
as low as six feet eight inches except under beams, girders, ducts or other
obstructions where the clear height may be not less than six feet four inches.
Heated spaces will be considered "finished" and constructed to comply with the
applicable codes. Unfinished basements must also conform to Section E3901.9 and
E3902.5 of the International Residential Code for minimal electrical
requirements.
   BEDROOM — A room intended for sleeping that contains an approved means of
egress, a smoke detector, and a closet. and noted on plans as such.
   BUILDING — Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy.
   BUILDING CODE — The International Building Code as published by the
International Code Council, as adopted by this jurisdiction.
   BUILDING, EXISTING — Any building erected prior to the adoption of this
code, or one for which a legal building permit has been issued.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL — The officer or other designated authority charged with
the administration and enforcement of this code, or duly authorized
representative.
   CARPORTS — A covered structure intended for parking of a vehicle. Carports
shall be open on not less than two sides. Carport not open on two or more sides
shall be a garage and shall comply with the provisions of this section for
garages.
   COMMERCIAL PROJECTS — Any commercial buildings, industrial buildings,
assembly buildings, and multi- family residential structures not defined as a
townhouse greater than a duplex.
   CONDOMINIUM — Means real estate, portions of which are designated for
separate ownership and the remainder of which is designated for common
ownership solely by the owners of the separate portions. Real estate is not a
condominium unless the undivided interests in the common elements are vested in
the unit owners.
   DETACHED BUILDING — A stand-alone structure that is separated from other
structures on the same property without fire resistant constructed exterior
walls with a physical separation that complies with the requirements of Section
503.1.2 and Table 602 of the Building Code and Section R302 of the Residential
Code as referenced herein. No physical attachments to other structures on the
same property are permitted.
   ELECTRICAL CODE — The National Electrical Code published by the National
Fire Protection Association, as adopted by this jurisdiction.
   EXISTING BUILDING CODE — The International Existing Building Code, published
by the International Code Council, as adopted by this jurisdiction.
   FUEL GAS CODE — The International Fuel Gas Code, published by the
International Code Council, as adopted by this jurisdiction.
   GARAGE — An enclosed building or indoor area for parking motor vehicles.
   GRADING — Any excavating, filling, or combination thereof for earthwork
construction as covered within the grading ordinance as adopted by this
jurisdiction.
   JURISDICTION — The governmental unit that has adopted this code under due
legislative authority.
   MECHANICAL CODE — The International Mechanical Code published by the
International Code Council, as adopted by this jurisdiction.
   OCCUPANCY — The purpose for which a building, or part thereof, is used or
intended to be used in compliance with adopted codes.
   OWNER — Any person, agent, firm or corporation having a legal or equitable
interest in the property.
   PERMIT — An official document or certificate issued by the authority having
jurisdiction which authorizes performance of a specified activity.
   PERSON — An individual(s), heir(s), executor(s), administrator(s) or assign
(s), and also includes a firm, partnership or corporation, its or their
successor(s) or assign(s), or the agent(s) of any of the aforesaid.
   PLUMBING CODE — The International Plumbing Code, published by the
International Code Council, as adopted by this jurisdiction.
   REPAIR — The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing building,
structure or building service equipment for the purpose of its maintenance.
   RESIDENTIAL CODE FOR ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLINGS — The International
Residential Code for one- and two family dwellings, published by the
International Code Council, as adopted by this jurisdiction.
   SHALL — The term, when used in this code, is construed as mandatory.
   STRUCTURE — That which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of
any kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts
joined together in some definite manner.
   TECHNICAL CODES — Those codes adopted by this jurisdiction containing the
provisions for design, construction, alteration, addition, repair, removal,
demolition, use, location, occupancy and maintenance of all buildings and
structures and building service equipment as herein defined.
   TOWNHOUSE — A single-family dwelling unit constructed in a group of three or
more attached units in which each unit extends from the foundation to roof and
with a yard or public way (open space) on at least two sides. Such are not more
than three stories above grade plane in height with a separate means of egress
to each unit.
   TRAILER (PARK MODEL) — A park trailer built on a single chassis, mounted on
wheels and designed to be connected to utilities necessary for operation of
installed fixtures and appliances and has a gross trailer area of not less than
320 square feet and not more than 400 square feet when it is set up, and
manufactured to comply with ANSI A119.5 standards, except that it does not
include recreational vehicles, travel trailers, campers or fifth wheel
trailers.
   VALUATION or VALUE — The total estimated cost to replace, repair, build, or
erect any building and its building service equipment in kind, based on current
construction costs.
SECTION 102.14 — Guideline manuals is hereby added as a new section to read as
follows:
   102.14 — Guideline manuals. Guideline manuals as published by the
International Code Council, Inc. and The National Fire Protection Association,
Inc. as commentaries, handbooks, inspection guides, plan review guides,
training manuals and other such reference publications may be used by the
building official as guidance to provide alternative approaches to achieve
compliance and interpretations of the technical codes.
SECTION 104 — DUTIES AND POWERS OF BUILDING OFFICIAL
SECTION 104.5 — Identification is hereby deleted in its entirety and revised to
read as follows:
104.5 — Identification. The building official and appointed deputies shall
carry proper identification when inspecting structures or premises in the
performance of duties under this code.
SECTION 104.7 — Department records is hereby amended by the revision of the
first sentence to read as follows:
   104.7 — Department records. The building official shall have access to
official records of applications received, permits and certificates issued,
fees collected, reports of inspections, and notices and orders issued.
SECTION 104.10.1 — Flood Hazard Areas is hereby deleted in its entirety and
revised to read as follows:
   104.10.1 — Flood Hazard Areas. Flood Hazard Areas relating to all new
construction of buildings, structures and portions of buildings and structures,
including substantial improvement and restoration of substantial damage to
buildings and structures shall be enforced and regulated jointly by Yavapai
County Flood Control District and the Town of Dewey-Humboldt.
SECTION 105 — PERMITS
SECTION 105.1.1 — Annual permit is hereby deleted in its entirety.
SECTION 105.1.2 — Annual permit records is hereby deleted in its entirety.
SECTION 105.2 — Work exempt from permit is hereby deleted in its entirety and
amended to read as follows:
   105.2 — Work exempt from permit. A permit shall not be required for the
types of work in each of the separate classes of permits as listed below.
Exemption from the permit requirements of this code shall not be deemed to
grant authorization for any work to be done in violation of the provisions of
the technical codes or any other laws or ordinances of this jurisdiction. These
exemptions do not apply to commercial projects.
   NOTE: Work exempt from a permit pursuant to this section shall apply ONLY to
Building Safety. Other Town Departments may have permit requirements for these
exemptions.
   Building permits. A building permit shall not be required for the following:
      1.   One-story, NON- HABITABLE detached accessory buildings on
residential properties used as tool and storage sheds, playhouses, animal
shades, barns, and similar uses, provided the area does not exceed 400 square
feet under roof and not to exceed a height of 12 feet from natural grade to the
mean roof height. The site of the accessory building must meet all set back
requirements. Detached accessory buildings SHALL NOT be considered or used as
habitable space. UTILITY; electrical only with a separate electrical permit,
"no mechanical systems or plumbing" permitted in a detached accessory building.
Detached accessory building that use other than a tool - storage sheds,
playhouse , animal shade, barns and similar uses and with two or more permit
will required a building permit.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dabe9726ae38701612cdb69c32e218ccf7d4b064/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1064.png]
 
      2.    Freestanding Masonry or Concrete walls not over four feet high
(measured from natural grade) on residential properties used as garden/privacy
wall.
      3.   Fences not over six feet high, not including masonry or concrete
walls. Fence height measured on both sizes.
      4.   Oil derricks.
      5.   Movable cases, counters and partitions not over five feet nine
inches high.
      6.   Retaining walls, which are not over 32 inches in height, measured
from the top of the footing to the top of the wall. All retaining walls which
support a surcharge or fill exceeding a maximum of 2 to 1 slope or impounding
flammable liquids will require a building permit.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dabe9726ae38701612cdb69c32e218ccf7d4b064/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1062.png]
 
      7.    Watertanks supported directly upon grade if the capacity does not
exceed 5,000 gallons and the ratio of height to diameter or width does not
exceed 2:1.
      8.    Uncovered Decks not exceeding 200 square feet (18.58 m2 ) in area,
that are not more than 30 inches (762 mm) above grade at any point, are not
attached to a dwelling and do not serve the exit door required by Section
R311.4 of the International Residential Code.
      9.   Remodels (non-structural and no increase in square footage or
plumbing, electrical, and mechanical) on residential properties. This includes
painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets, counter tops and similar
finish work.
      10.   Temporary motion picture, television and theater stage sets and
scenery where the public is not to attend.
      11.   Window awnings supported by an exterior wall of Group R, Division
3, and Group U Occupancies which do not project more than 54 inches from the
exterior wall and do not require additional support.
      12.   Portable swimming being less than 18 inches in water depth which
are drained and filled daily and NOT connected to a circulation system when
used as an accessory on single family residential property.
      13.   Membrane structures constructed for nursery or agricultural
purposes and not including service systems on residential properties not to
exceed 400 square feet.
      14.   Swings and other playground equipment accessory to detached one-
and two-family dwellings.
      15.   Re-roofing (like for like no sheathing replacement and no more than
two layers) on residential properties.
      16.   Concrete flat work (driveways, walkways and pads) not be used in
connection with a structural component on residential properties.
      17.   Nonfunctional, decorative windmills that do not exceed 25 feet.
      18.   Flag Poles: (a) ground mounted on residential properties and (b)
that its reclining length, in case of collapse, would or (c) a height of 20
feet whichever is less. Completing an application for a Zoning Clearance is
waived unless the subject residential property I within a FEMA delineated floor
area. Any electrical to pole for lighting and the like will require a separate
electrical permit.
      19.   Decks, the walking surface of which is not more than 30" inches
above the surrounding grade and less than 120 sq. ft. of surface area.
   Plumbing permits. A plumbing permit shall not be required for the following:
      1.   The stopping of leaks in drains, water, soil, waste or vent pipe;
provided, however; that if any concealed trap, drainpipe, water, soil, waste or
vent pipe becomes defective and it becomes necessary to remove and replace the
same with new material, such work shall be considered as new work and a permit
shall be obtained and inspection made as provided in this code.
      2.   The clearing of stoppages or the repairing of leaks in pipes, valves
or fixtures, and the removal and reinstallation of water closets, provided such
repairs do not involve or require the replacement or rearrangement of valves,
pipes or fixtures.
   Electrical permits. An electrical permit shall not be required for the
following:
      1.   Listed cord-and-plug connected temporary decorative lighting.
      2.   Reinstallation of attachment plug receptacles but not the outlets
therefore.
      3.   Repair or replacement of fixed motors, transformers or fixed
approved appliances of the same type and rating in the same location.
      4.   Replacement of branch circuit overcurrent devices of the required
capacity in the same location.
      5.   Electrical wiring, devices, appliances, apparatus or equipment
operating at less than 25 volts and not capable of supplying more than 50 watts
of energy.
      6.   Minor repair work, including the replacement of lamps or the
connection of approved portable electrical equipment to approved permanently
installed receptacles.
      7.   Radio and television transmitting stations: The provisions of this
code shall not apply to electrical equipment used for radio and television
transmissions but do apply to equipment and wiring for a power supply and the
installations of towers and antennas.
      8.   Temporary testing systems: A permit shall not be required for the
installation of any temporary system required for the testing or servicing of
electrical equipment or apparatus.
      9.   The wiring for temporary theater, motion picture or television stage
sets where the public is not to attend.
      10.   Low-energy power, controls and signal circuit of Class II and Class
III as defined in the Electrical Code.
      11.   Items as listed per Article 90.2 SCOPE (B) Not Covered in the 2017
National Electrical Code as adopted by the jurisdiction.
   Mechanical permits. A mechanical permit shall not be required for the
following:
      1.   A portable heating appliance.
      2.   Portable ventilation appliances and equipment.
      3.   A portable cooling unit.
      4.   Steam, hot water or chilled water piping within any heating or
cooling equipment or appliances regulated by this coed.
      5.   The replacement of any minor part that does not alter the approval
of equipment or an appliance or make such equipment or appliance unsafe.
      6.   A portable evaporative cooler.
      7.   Self-contained refrigeration systems that contain ten pounds (4.5kg)
or less of refrigerant or that are actuated by motors of one horsepower (0.75
kW) or less.
      8.   Portable fuel cell appliances that are not connected to a fixed
piping system and not interconnected to a power grid.
   Fuel Gas permits. A fuel gas permit shall not be required for the following:
      1.   Any portable heating appliance.
      2.   Replacement of any minor part of equipment that does not alter
approval of such equipment or make such equipment unsafe.
SECTION 105.3.2 — Time limitation of application is hereby deleted in its
entirety and revised to read as follows:
   105.3.2 — Time limitation of application. An application for a permit for
any proposed work shall be deemed to have been abandoned 180 days after the
date of filing and such application shall be expired. The building official is
authorized to grant one extension of time of up to 180 additional days. The
extension shall be requested in writing and justifiable cause demonstrated.
SECTION 105.5 — Expiration is hereby deleted in its entirety and revised to
read as follows:
   105.5 — Expiration. Every permit issued shall become invalid unless the work
authorized by such permit has commenced within 180 days after its issuance and
a valid inspection or subsequent valid inspection as detailed by Section 110 is
obtained every 180 days thereafter. The building official is authorized to
grant up to one extension of time for a period of not more than 180 days. All
requests for extensions shall be in writing prior to permit expiration and with
justifiable cause demonstrated. Every permit issued shall become invalid within
two and one-half years from the issued date including all extensions of time.
An expired permit shall only be renewed once provided no changes have been made
or will be made in the original issued construction documents and the renewal
application is submitted within one year of the expiration date.
SECTION 105.7 — Placement of permit is hereby amended by insertion of a new
sentence at the end of this section to read as follows:
   105.7 — Placement of permit. The issued premise identification placard
(orange card) shall be conspicuously posted on site and be maintained until the
completion of the project.
SECTION 105.8 — Responsibility is hereby added as a new section to read as
follows:
   105.8 — Responsibility. It shall be the duty of every person who performs
work for the installation or repair of building, structure, electrical, fuel
gas, mechanical or plumbing systems for which this code is applicable, to
comply with this code.
SECTION 107 — SUBMITTAL DOCUMENTS
SECTION 107.1 — General hereby amended by deletion of the first paragraph in
its entirety and revised to read as follows:
   107.1 — General. Submittal documents consisting of construction documents,
plans, specifications, engineering calculations, diagrams, geotechnical soil
reports, statements of special inspections, and other data shall be submitted
in two or more sets with each permit application. The construction documents
for all disciplines shall be prepared by an Arizona licensed registrant when
the building is regulated by the rules and regulations of the Arizona State
Board of Technical Registration to require sealed plans by a qualified licensed
registrant. The building official may require the applicant submitting
construction documents to demonstrate that state law does not require that the
documents be prepared by an Arizona licensed registrant. Where special
conditions exist, the building official is authorized to require construction
documents to be prepared by an Arizona licensed registrant.
SECTION 107.2.1 — Information on construction documents is hereby deleted in
its entirety and revised to read as follows:
   107.2.1 — Information on construction documents. Construction documents
shall be dimensioned and drawn upon suitable material.
   Electronic media documents are permitted to be submitted when prior approval
is obtained from the building official. Construction documents shall be of
sufficient clarity to indicate the location, nature and extent of the work
proposed and show in detail that it will conform to the provisions of this code
and relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations, as determined by the
building official.
   107.2.1 — Information on construction documents. Construction documents
shall be dimensioned and drawn upon suitable material. Electronic media
documents are permitted to be submitted when prior approval is obtained from
the building official. Construction documents shall be of sufficient clarity to
indicate the location, nature and extent of the work proposed and show in
detail that it will conform to the provisions of this code and relevant laws,
ordinances, rules and regulations, as determined by the building official.
SECTION 107.2.2 — Fire protection system shop drawings is hereby deleted in its
entirety and revised to read as follows:
   Section 107.2.2 — Fire Protection Shop Drawings. Shop drawings for the fire
protection system(s) shall be submitted to the Authority Having Jurisdiction
(AHJ) as determined by Central Arizona Fire and Medical Authority section
101.4.7 "Fire Protection (Fire Codes)" of this code for review and shall be
approved by the AHJ prior to the start of system installation. The building
official shall receive official notification of such approval prior to
continued inspections of work in areas where fire protection system(s) are
required.
SECTION 107.2.6 — Site plan is deleted in its entirety and revised to read as
follows:
   107.2.6 — Site plan. The construction documents submitted with the
application for a permit shall be accompanied by a site plan drawn to a defined
scale showing the size and locations of all new construction and existing
structures on the site, distances from all lot lines, the existing (native) and
proposed final grade contour intervals, building pad elevations, finished floor
elevations, drainage flow directions, utility line locations (water, gas,
sewer, septic, and electrical) and cut and fill amounts of any grading. In the
case of demolition, the 8 ½" x 11" plot plan shall show structure(s) to be
demolished and the location and size of existing structure(s) to remain on the
property. The building official is authorized to waive or modify the
requirement for a site plan when the application for permit is for alteration
or repair or when otherwise warranted.
SECTION 107.2.5.1 — Design flood elevations is hereby deleted in its entirety.
SECTION 107.2.5.2 — Manufacturer's Installation Instructions is hereby added as
a new section to read as follows:
   107.2.5.2 — Manufacturer's Installation Instructions. Manufacturer's
Installation Instructions, as required by this code, shall be available on the
job site at the time of inspection.
SECTION 107.3.3 — Phased approval is hereby deleted in its entirety.
SECTION 107.3.4.1 — Deferred submittals is hereby amended by addition to the
1st paragraph to read as follows:
   107.3.4.1 — Deferred submittals. Deferred submittals of this code shall
apply to all buildings, EXCEPT detached one- and two-family dwellings and their
accessory structures as defined under the provisions of the International
Residential Code as adopted by this jurisdiction.
SECTION 109 — Fees is hereby deleted in its entirety and revised to read as
follows:
SECTION 109 — FEES
   109.1 — Payment of fees. Fees shall be assessed in accordance with the
provisions of this section or shall be as set forth in the fee schedule adopted
by this jurisdiction.
   109.2 — Schedule of permit fees. Pursuant to A.R.S. § 11-863.C., valuations
shall be assigned, and fees shall be assessed in accordance with the current
valuation and fee schedule recommended and approved by the Dewey-Humboldt Town
Council.
   The value to be used in computing the building permit fee and building plan
review fee shall be the total value of all construction work for which the
permit is issued as well as all finish work, painting, roofing, electrical,
plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, elevators, fire-extinguishing systems and
other permanent equipment.
   109.3 — Plan review fees. When submittal documents are required by Section
107, a deposit shall be paid at the time documents are submitted for plan
review. Said deposit shall be as shown in the Valuation and Fee Schedule
adopted by the Dewey-Humboldt Town Council.
   The plan review fees for electrical, mechanical and plumbing work shall be
as shown in the Valuation and Fee Schedule adopted by the Dewey-Humboldt Town
Council.
   The plan review fee for grading work shall be as shown in the Valuation and
Fee Schedule adopted by the Dewey-Humboldt Town Council.
   The plan review fees specified in this section are separate fees from the
permit fees specified in Section 109 and are in addition to the permit fees.
   When submittal documents are incomplete or changed so as to require
additional plan review or when the project involves deferred submittal items as
defined in Section 107.3.4.1, an additional plan review fee shall be charged at
the rate shown in the Valuation and Fee Schedule adopted by the Dewey-Humboldt
Town Council.
   109.4 — Work commencing before permit issuance. Any person who commences any
work on a building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system
before obtaining
   the necessary permits shall be subject to a fee established by the building
official that shall be in addition to the required permit fees.
   109.5 — Investigation. Whenever work for which a permit is required by this
code has been commenced without first obtaining a permit, a special
investigation may be made prior to a permit being issued for such work.
      Exception: Repairs performed in an emergency situation where the
application was submitted the next business day.
   109.5.1 — Investigation Permit Fee. An investigation fee, in addition to the
permit fee, shall be collected whether or not a permit is then or subsequently
issued. The investigation fee shall be equal to the amount of the permit fee
required by this code. The minimum investigation fee shall be the same as the
minimum fee set forth in the Valuation and Fee Schedule adopted by Dewey-
Humboldt Town Council. The payment of such investigation fee shall not exempt
an applicant from compliance with all other provisions of either this code; the
technical codes, and from the penalty prescribed by law.
   109.6 — Related Fees. The payment of the fee for the construction,
alteration, removal or demolition for work done in connection to or
concurrently with the work authorized by a building permit shall not relieve
the applicant or holder of the permit from the payment of other fees that are
prescribed by law.
   109.7 — Fee Refunds. The building official may authorize refunding of a fee
paid hereunder, which was erroneously paid or collected.
   The building official may authorize refunding the greater of $25 or 25% of
the building permit fee paid when no work and no inspections have been done
under a permit issued in accordance with this code.
   The building official may authorize refunding the greater of $10 or 25% of
plumbing, electrical, and mechanical fees paid when no work and no inspections
have been done under a permit issued in accordance with this code.
   The building official may authorize refunding a plan review fee for a permit
withdrawn after a deposit fee has been paid at the greater of the per-hour
charge rate (minimum of one hour) or the calculated plan review fee. No refund
of plan review fees is authorized once plan review on a plan has begun.
   The building official shall not authorize the refunding of any fee paid
except upon written application filed by the original applicant no later than
180 days after the date of fee payment. The time limit for a request for refund
shall be extended in conjunction with an application/ approved permit extension
for permits with no construction begun, not to exceed one year.
SECTION 110 — Inspections is deleted in its entirety and revised to read as
follows:
SECTION 110 — INSPECTIONS
   110.1 — General. Construction or work for which a permit is required shall
be subject to inspection by the building official and such construction or work
shall remain accessible and exposed for inspection purposes until approved.
Approval as a result of an inspection shall not be construed to be an approval
of a violation of the provisions of this code or of other ordinances of the
jurisdiction. Inspections presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the
provisions of this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction shall not be
valid. It shall be the duty of the permit applicant to cause the work to remain
accessible and exposed for inspection purposes. Neither the building official
nor the jurisdiction shall be liable for expense entailed in the removal or
replacement of any material required to allow inspection.
   A survey of the property, as done by an Arizona licensed surveyor may be
required by the building official to verify that buildings, structures and
related features are located in accordance with the approved plans.
   Preliminary inspection. Before issuing a permit, the building official is
authorized to examine, or cause to be examined, the buildings, structures and
sites for which an application has been filed.
   110.2 — Required inspections. The building official, upon notification,
shall make the inspections set forth in Sections 110.3.1 through 110.3.15.
   110.2.1 — Footing. Footing inspection shall be made after excavations for
footings are complete and any required reinforcing steel is in place. For
concrete footings, any required forms shall be in place prior to inspection. As
required by ACI standards, all vertical steel shall be tied in place at the
time of footing inspection.
   110.2.2 — Stem wall/grout. Stem wall inspections of masonry or formed
concrete walls, shall be made prior to any grout or concrete being placed after
the masonry units and required forms are completed and any required reinforcing
steel installed, including the installation of any required framing
attachments, which shall be secured to the un-grouted masonry units or concrete
wall forms.
   110.2.3 — Reinforced masonry, insulating concrete form (ICF) and
conventionally formed concrete wall inspection. Reinforced masonry walls,
insulating concrete form (ICF) walls and conventionally formed concrete walls
shall be inspected after plumbing, mechanical and electrical systems embedded
within the walls, and reinforcing steel are in place and prior to placement of
grout or concrete. Inspection shall verify the correct size, location, spacing
and lapping of reinforcing. For masonry walls, inspection shall also verify
that the location of grout cleanouts and size of grout spaces comply with the
requirements of this code.
   110.2.4 — Concrete slab and under-floor inspection. Concrete slab and under-
floor inspections shall be made after in-slab or under- floor reinforcing steel
and building service equipment, conduit, piping accessories and other ancillary
equipment items are in place, but before any concrete is placed or floor
sheathing installed, including the sub floor. Residential building concrete
slab inspections shall include the garage floor.
   110.2.5 — Floodplain inspections. For construction in areas prone to
flooding, as determined by the Yavapai County Flood Control District, upon
placement of the lowest floor, including the basement, and prior to further
vertical construction, the building official shall require submission of
documentation, prepared and sealed by a registered design professional, of the
elevation of the lowest floor, including the basement.
   110.2.6 — Plumbing, mechanical, gas and electrical systems inspection. Rough
inspection of plumbing, mechanical, gas and electrical systems shall be made
prior to covering or concealment, before fixtures or appliances are set or
installed, and prior to slab grade inspection, or at the time of rough-in
inspection prior to insulation.
      Exception: Back-filling of ground- source heat pump loop systems tested
in accordance with Sections M2105.1 of the 2018 International Residential Code
and 1208.1. of the 2018 International Mechanical Code prior to inspection shall
be permitted.
   110.2.7 — Roof nailing and exterior braced wall panels. Roof nailing and
exterior braced wall panel inspection shall be made after the roof deck
sheathing, exterior wall sheathing, and required wall framing attachments are
in place and prior to the installation of the roofing material and exterior
wall covering. All required wall framing attachments to the foundation and stem
wall systems shall be in place.
   110.2.8 — Framing and exterior lath. Framing inspection shall be made after
all framing, fire-blocking, windows, and bracing are in place and pipes,
chimneys and vents to be concealed are complete and the rough electrical,
plumbing, heating, wiring, pipes and ducts are installed. All penetrations
through the floor and through the top plate into the attic must be sealed and
exterior lath is installed, and roof completely dried in with either the
roofing material or approved roofing paper. The exterior lath inspection, for
stucco wall covering, shall be made at this time.
   110.2.9 — Water-resistive and/or air barrier. A water-resistive barrier and/
or air barrier inspection shall be performed after all flashings, windows and
barriers are installed prior to the installation of any exterior wall covering.
   110.2.10 — Insulation inspection. Insulation inspection shall be made after
frame and exterior lath inspection and all rough plumbing, mechanical, gas, and
electrical systems are approved and prior to covering or concealment. Blown or
sprayed roof/ceiling insulation may be verified before final inspection with
markers affixed to the trusses or joists and marked with the insulation
thickness by one inch high numbers. A minimum of one marker provided for each
300 square feet of area with numbers to face the attic access opening. In lieu
of an insulation inspection, a certification from the insulation installer may
be submitted.
   110.2.11 — Gypsum board. An inspection shall be made of the gypsum board,
interior and exterior, before any joints and fasteners are taped and finished.
   110.2.12 — Fire-resistant penetrations and fire-resistance-rated
construction inspection. Protection of joints and penetrations in fire-
resistance-rated assemblies shall not be concealed from view until inspected
and approved. Where fire-resistance-rated construction is required between
dwelling units or due to location on property, the building official shall
require an inspection of such construction after all lathing and/or wallboard
is in place, but before any plaster is applied, or before wall board joints and
fasteners are taped and finished.
   110.2.13 — Special inspections. For special inspections, see Section 1704 of
the 2018 International Building Code.
   110.2.14 — Other inspections. In addition to the inspections specified above
the building official is authorized to make or require other inspections of any
construction work to ascertain compliance with the provisions of this code and
other laws that are enforced by the department of Building Safety.
   110.2.15 — Final inspection. Final inspection shall be made after the
permitted work is completed and prior to occupancy.
   110.3 — Inspection agencies. The building official is authorized to accept
reports of approved inspection agencies, provided such agencies satisfy the
requirements as to qualifications and reliability.
   110.4 — Inspection requests. It shall be the duty of the holder of the
building permit or their duly authorized agent to notify the building official
when work is ready for inspection. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to
provide access to and means for inspections of such work that are required by
this code.
   110.5 — Approval required. Work shall not be done beyond the point indicated
in each successive inspection without first obtaining the approval of the
building official. The building official, upon notification, shall perform the
requested inspection and shall either indicate the portion of the construction
that is satisfactory as completed, or notify the permit holder or his or her
agent wherein the same fails to comply with this code. Any portions that do not
comply shall be corrected and such portion shall not be covered or concealed
until authorized by the building official.
   110.6 — Re-inspection. A re-inspection fee may be assessed for each
inspection or re-inspection when such portion of work for which inspection is
called is not complete or when corrections called for are not made.
   This section is not to be interpreted as requiring re-inspection fees the
first time a job is rejected for failure to comply with the requirements of the
technical codes, but as controlling the practice of calling for inspections
before the job is ready for such inspection or re-inspection.
   Re-inspection fees may be assessed:
   ∙   When the inspection record card is not posted or otherwise available on
the work site.
   ∙   When the approved plans are not readily available to the inspector.
   ∙   For failure to provide access on the date for which inspection is
requested.
   ∙   For deviating from approved plans thereby requiring the approval of the
building official.
   To obtain a re-inspection, the applicant shall pay the re-inspection fee as
set forth in the fee schedule adopted by this jurisdiction.
   In instances where re-inspection fees have been assessed, additional
inspection of the work will not be performed until the required fees have been
paid.
SECTION 111 — CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY
SECTION 111.1 — Certificate issued is hereby amended by addition of an
"Exception" to read as follows:
   111.1 — Certificate issued.
      Exception: Certificates of occupancies are not required for work exempt
from permits under Section 105.2 of this code on residential remodels,
additions, and accessory buildings or structures on residential properties
being used for non-habitable residential purposes. Certificates of completion
shall be issued on permits issued as a Shell Building. Certificates of
completion shall not authorize occupancy.
SECTION 113 — Board of appeals is hereby deleted in its entirety and revised to
read as follows:
SECTION 113 — BOARD OF APPEALS
   113.1 — General. In order to hear and decide appeals of order, decisions or
determinations, made by the building official relative to the application and
interpretation of the technical code, there is hereby created a board of
appeals, the board of appeals shall be appointed by the Town Council and shall
hold office at its pleasure. The board shall adopt rule of procedure for
conducting business. The Town Council may appoint, as the Town's Board of
Appeals, a board duly appointed by another municipality or county.
   113.2 — Members of Board. In order to hear and decide appeals of order,
decisions, or determinations made by the building official relative to the
application and interpretation of this code, there shall be and is hereby
created a board of appeals, the board of appeals shall be appointed by the Town
Council and a person representing the public and a resident of Dewey-Humboldt
and shall hold office at its pleasure. The board shall adopt rules of procedure
for conducting business. The Town Council may appoint, as the Town's Board of
Appeals, a board duly appointed by another municipality or County Board Members
   113.3 — Duties of Appeals Board.
      1.   The Appeals Board shall hear and decide appeals of order, decisions
or determinations made by the building official relative to the application and
interpretation of the technical code, including suitability of alternative
materials and methods of construction, effectiveness, efficiency,
responsiveness, ethics, fees, revenues, budgets, staffing equipment, code
content, geographic coverage, coordination with other units of governments, and
any other matters of concern to the Board.
      2.   Findings and decisions of the Board shall be binding upon the
building official and appealing party subject to appeal to the Town Council.
      3.   The Board shall act as technical advisory in the formation and
acceptance of adopting Building Codes and Ordinances in the town.
   113.4 — Limitation of Authority. The Appeals Board shall have no authority
relative to interpretation of the administrative provisions of this code or the
administrative provisions of the technical codes nor shall the Board be
empowered to waive requirements of either this code or the technical codes.
SECTION 114 — Violations is hereby deleted in its entirety and revised to read
as follows:
SECTION 114 — Violations. Violations shall be handled through §§
153.019,
153.020, and
153.999 of the Zoning Regulations unless otherwise provided.
   114.1 — Violations. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or
demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building, structure or building
service equipment regulated by this code, or cause or permit the same to be
done in conflict with or violation of any provision of this code or any
technical code adopted by the town.
   114.2 — Continuing Violation. When there is argument to the orders issued by
the building official and the violation is not abated according to the orders
issued by the building official, the building official may refer the matter to
the Dewey-Humboldt Hearing Officer for a hearing and the imposition of
penalties and sanctions. The Hearing Officer shall hear and rule on building
violations and impose sanctions as authorized by A.R.S. § 11-866 and A.R.S. §
11-815.
   114.3 — Appeals. The decision of the Hearing Officer may be appealed to the
Dewey- Humboldt Board of Adjustment in accordance with ARS § 11-815.
   114.4 — Penalties. Pursuant to A.R.S. § 11-815 and A.R.S. § 11-866 the
Hearing Officer shall have the authority to impose the following penalties and
sanctions:
      1.   Each day's continuance of a building code violation shall be deemed
a separate offense.
      2.   The maximum penalty for each offense shall be:
         A.   Pursuant to A.R.S. § 13-802.B., $500 for an individual;
         B.   Pursuant to A.R.S. § 13-803-1-3, $2,500 for any corporation,
association, labor union or other legal entity.
   The imposition of penalties on any person under this ordinance shall not
relieve such persons from the responsibility of correcting prohibited
conditions or removing prohibited structures or improvements and shall not
prevent the enforced correction or removal of such violations.
   If any structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, maintained
or used in violation of this Ordinance, the Dewey-Humboldt Town Council, the
Dewey-Humboldt Attorney, the building official, or any adjacent or neighboring
property owner who is especially damaged by the violation may institute an
injunction, mandamus, abatement, or any appropriate action proceeding to
prevent, abate, or remove the violation.
   In the event, the Town deems it necessary to institute proceedings to abate
a violation it shall be entitled to recover its costs of abatement including
attorney fees.
   The conviction of any person, firm or corporation hereunder shall not
relieve such person from the responsibility to correct such violation nor
prevent the enforcement, correction or removal thereof.
      (2)   Findings and declaration. The Town of Dewey-Humboldt of Yavapai
County, Arizona specifically and expressly finds and declares that the nature
and uniqueness of the climate, terrain, and location does necessitate and
demand specific amendments to the International Administrative Building Code,
2018 edition, which are stated in this ordinance.
(Ord. 21-159, passed 4-20-2021)
§ 150.02 BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. There is hereby adopted by reference in Resolution 21-162,
that certain document known as the International Building Code, 2018 Edition,
including Appendixes C, E, G, H, I, and N as published by the International
Code Council. Said document is hereby amended and adopted as the Building Code
for the areas of Dewey-Humboldt providing for the regulation of the erection,
construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, moving, demolition, conversion,
occupancy, use heightened area of all building and structures within this
county and each and all such regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and
terms of the International Building Code, 2018 Edition, including Appendixes C,
E, G, H, I and N are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof as set
forth herein, excepting such portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified or
amended.
   (B)   (1)   Amendments.
   CHAPTER 1 ADMINISTRATION
SECTION 101 — GENERAL
   SECTION 101.1 — Title is amended by the insertion of "Dewey-Humboldt."
   SECTIONS 101.2 through Section 116 are amended by deletion in their entirety
and replaced with the requirements of the Dewey-Humboldt Administrative
Building Code, as adopted and as may be amended from time to time.
   CHAPTER 2 DEFINITIONS
SECTION 201 — GENERAL
   SECTION 201.3 Terms defined in other codes are hereby amended as follows:
Where terms are not defined in this code, such terms shall have the meanings
ascribed in other code publications of the International Residential Code and
the most recent Dewey-Humboldt Administrative Building Code. In the event there
is a conflict between the aforementioned codes, the Dewey-Humboldt
Administrative Building Code is superior.
   SECTION 201.4 — Terms not defined is deleted in its entirety and amended to
read as follows:
      201.4 — Terms not defined. Where terms are not defined through the
methods authorized by this chapter, such terms shall have ordinarily accepted
meanings such as the context implies. Webster's Third New International
Dictionary of the English Language, Unabridged, shall be considered as
providing ordinarily accepted meanings.
SECTION 202 — DEFINITIONS is hereby amended by addition or revision of the
following words and terms:
   ADULT DAY HEALTH CARE FACILITY. A facility providing adult day health
services during a portion of a continuous 24-hour period for compensation on a
regular basis for five or more adults not related to the proprietor (As defined
by Arizona Department of Health Services).
   ASSISTED LIVING CENTER. An assisted living facility that provides resident
rooms or residential units to eleven or more residents (as defined by Arizona
Department of Health Services).
   ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY. A residential care institution, including adult
foster care, that provides or contracts to provide supervisory care services,
personal care services or directed care services on a continuing basis (as
defined by Arizona Department of Health Services).
   ASSISTED LIVING HOME. An assisted living facility that provides resident
rooms to ten or fewer residents (as defined by Arizona Department of Health
Services).
   BEDBOUND. To be confined to a bed or chair because of an inability to
ambulate even with assistance (as defined by Arizona Department of Health
Services).
   DIRECTED CARE SERVICE. Programs and services, including personal care
services, provided to persons who are incapable of recognizing danger,
summoning assistance, expressing need, or making basic care decisions (as
defined by Arizona Department of Health Services).
   PERSONAL CARE SERVICE. Assistance with activities of daily living that can
be performed by persons without professional skills or professional training,
which does not require medical care and includes the coordination or provision
of intermittent nursing services and the administration of medications and
treatments. Personal care involves responsibility for the safety of the persons
while inside the building.
   RESIDENTIAL CARE/ASSISTED LIVING HOME. A building or part thereof housing a
maximum of ten persons, excluding staff, on a 24-hour basis, who because of
age, mental disability or other reasons, live in a supervised residential
environment which provides supervisory, personal, or directed services. This
classification shall include, but not be limited to the following:
      Alcohol and drug abuse centers
      Assisted living facilities
      Congregate care facilities
      Convalescent facilities
      Group homes
      Halfway houses
      Residential board and custodial care facilities
      Social rehabilitation facilities
   SUPERVISORY CARE SERVICES. General supervision, including daily awareness of
resident functioning and continuing needs; the ability to intervene in a crisis
and assistance in the self- administration of prescribed medications (as
defined by Arizona Department of Health Services).
   TOWNHOUSE. A single-family dwelling unit constructed in a group of three or
more attached units in which each unit extends from the foundation to roof and
with a yard or public way (open space) on at least two sides. Such are not more
than three stories above grade plane in height with a separate means of egress
to each unit.
   CHAPTER 3 USE AND OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION
SECTION 305 — EDUCATIONAL GROUP E
SECTION 305.2 — Group E, day care facilities. DEFINITIONS is hereby added to
replace 305.2 in its entirety to include the following words and terms (as
defined by Arizona Department of Health Services.):
SECTION 305.2 — DEFINITIONS. The following words and terms, as defined by
Arizona Department of Health Services:
   Child. Any person through the age of 14 years. Child also means a person who
is under eighteen years of age if the child has a developmental disability as
defined in A.R.S. § 36-551 or has at least one of the disabilities listed in
A.R.S. § 15-761, and requires special education as defined in A.R.S. § 15-761.
   Child care. The care, supervision and guidance of a child or children,
unaccompanied by a parent, guardian or custodian, on a regular basis, for
periods of less than 24 hours per day, in a place other than the child's or the
children's own home or homes.
   Child care facility. Any facility in which child care is regularly provided
for compensation for five or more children not related to the proprietor.
   Child care group home. A residential facility in which child care is
regularly provided for compensation for periods of less than twenty-four hours
per day for not less than five children but no more than ten children through
the age of twelve years.
SECTION 305.2 — Group E, day care facilities is hereby revised to read as
follows:
SECTION 305.2 — Group E, day care facilities. This group includes buildings and
structures or portions thereof occupied by more than five children who receive
education, supervision, or child care services for less than 24 hours per day.
   Exception:
   1.   A "child care group home" complying with the requirements A.R.S. § 36-
897 and providing child care for less than 24 hours per day for not less than
five children but no more than ten children through the age of 12 years shall
be classified as Group R-3, provided that all child care rooms are located on
the level of exit discharge and each child care room has an exit door directly
to the exterior.
   CHAPTER 9 FIRE — PROTECTION SYSTEMS
SECTIONS 901 through 909.19 and Sections 910 through 915 is hereby deleted in
their entirety and revised to read as follows:
SECTION 901 — GENERAL
   901.1 — Scope. Fire protection systems shall be installed, repair, operated,
maintained and enforced in accordance with the requirements of the Central
Arizona Fire and Medical Authority (the "Fire District") and the International
Fire Code, as adopted and amended from time to time by the Fire District (the
"Fire District Requirements") The Building Official shall assist the Fire
District in the inspection, testing and oversight of fire protection system as
may be required. The Building Official shall withhold approvals where fire
protection systems are not in compliance with Fire District Requirements.
   CHAPTER 11 ACCESSIBILITY
   Section 1101.2 — Design is hereby deleted in its entirety and revised to
read as follows:
   Section 1101.2 — Design. Buildings and facilities shall be designed and
constructed to the more restrictive of the following adopted regulations and
technical codes:
      1.   The 2010 Standards for State and local governments;
      2.   The 2010 Standards for public accommodations and commercial
facilities
   CHAPTER 16 STRUCTURAL DESIGN
SECTION 1612 — Flood loads is hereby deleted in its entirety. Enforcement and
regulations of FLOOD HAZARD AREAS within Dewey- Humboldt shall be controlled by
Yavapai County Flood Control District.
   CHAPTER 18 SOILS AND FOUNDATION
SECTION 1804 — EXCAVATION, GRADING AND FILL
SECTION 1804.4 — Grading and fill in flood hazard areas is deleted in its
entirety. Enforcement and regulations of FLOOD HAZARD AREAS within Dewey-
Humboldt shall be controlled by Yavapai County Flood Control District.
   CHAPTER 27 ELECTRICAL
SECTION 2701 — GENERAL
   Section 2701.1 — Scope is hereby amended by addition of "The National
Electrical Code as adopted by Dewey-Humboldt" to the last sentence after (NFPA
70).
   CHAPTER 29 PLUMBING SYSTEMS
SECTION 2902 — MINIMUM PLUMBING FACILITIES
SECTION 2902.1 (403.1) — Minimum number of fixtures is hereby amended by the
addition of footnote "g" to Table 2902.1 to read as follows:
   2902.1 — Minimum number of fixtures.
      g.   Water coolers or bottled water dispensers may be substituted for
drinking fountains in B, M, and S occupancies with 25 or fewer occupants. Such
water shall be free of charge to the public.
   CHAPTER 30 ELEVATORS AND CONVEYING SYSTEMS
SECTION 3001 — GENERAL
   SECTION 3001.1 — Scope is hereby amended by addition of a new sentence at
the end of the first paragraph to read as follows:
      Also see Arizona Revised Statutes Title 23, Article 12 Sections 23-491
through 23-491.16 for additional requirements as enforced by the State of
Arizona Industrial Commission.
      (2)   Findings and declaration. The Town Council of Dewey-Humboldt,
Arizona specifically and expressly finds and declares that the nature and
uniqueness of the climate, terrain, and location does necessitate and demand
specific amendments to the International Building Code, 2018 Edition, which are
stated in this ordinance.
(Ord. 21-159, passed 4-20-2021)
§ 150.03 RESIDENTIAL ONE— AND TWO—FAMILY DWELLING CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. There is hereby adopted by reference, that certain document
known as the International Residential One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code, 2018
Edition, including Appendixes A, B, C, D, F, G, H, J, K, M, N, O, P, Q, R, and
S as published by the International Code Council. Said document is hereby
amended and adopted as the Building Code for One- and Two- Family Dwellings for
the areas of Dewey- Humboldt providing for the regulation of the erection,
construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, moving, demolition, conversion,
occupancy, use heightened area of all building and structures within the town
and each and all such regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms
of the International Residential One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code, 2018
Edition, including Appendixes A, B, C, D, F, G, H, J, K, M, N, O, P, Q, R, and
S are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof as set forth herein,
excepting such portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified or amended.
   (B)   (1)   Amendments.
   CHAPTER 1 ADMINISTRATION
SECTION R101 —GENERAL
SECTION R101.1 — Title is amended by the insertion of "Dewey-Humboldt."
SECTIONS R101.2 through R114 are amended by deletion in their entirety and
replaced with the requirements of the Dewey-Humboldt Administrative Building
Code as adopted and as may be amended from time to time.
   CHAPTER 2 DEFINITIONS
SECTION R201 — GENERAL
SECTION 201.3 Terms defined in other codes are hereby amended as follows: Where
terms are not defined in this code, such terms shall have the meanings ascribed
in other code publications of the International Residential Code and the most
recent Dewey-Humboldt Administrative Building Code. In the event there is a
conflict between the aforementioned codes, the Dewey-Humboldt Administrative
Building Code is superior.
SECTION R201.4 Terms not defined is hereby deleted in its entirety and revised
to read as follows:
   201.4 — Terms not defined. Where terms are not defined through the methods
authorized by this chapter, such terms shall have ordinarily accepted meanings
such as the context implies. Webster's Third New International Dictionary of
the English Language, Unabridged, shall be considered as providing ordinarily
accepted meanings.
SECTION R202 — DEFINITIONS
DEFINITIONS — The following words and or terms are hereby revised to read as
follows:
   TOWNHOUSE. A single-family dwelling unit constructed in a group of three or
more attached units in which each unit extends from the foundation to roof and
with a yard or public way (open space) on at least two sides. Such are not more
than three stories above grade plane in height with a separate means of egress
to each unit.
   CHAPTER 3 BUILDING PLANNING
SECTION R301 — DESIGN CRITERIA
TABLE R301.2 (1) is hereby established as shown:
TABLE R301.2 (1) CLIMATIC AND GEOGRAPHIC DESIGN CRITERIA
 
                                    SUBJECT TO DAMAGE FROM      Winter
Roof Wind                 Seismic                               Design  Ice Barrier
Snow Speedd   Topographic Design                Frost           Tempe   Underlayment
Load (mph)    effectsk    Categoryf Weatheringa Line   Termite  15      Requiredh
                                                Depthb          DEGREES NO

                                    Negligible
     115 mph                        Below 3500
30   i        NO          C         elevation   18"    Moderate 20°     
     Exposure                       Moderate           to Heavy
     C                              Above 3500
                                    elevation
 
bFrost line depth is measured from finished grade to the bottom of the required
concrete foundation/footing to be the required thickness as from Section
R403.1.1
 
Flood Hazardsg            Air Freezing Index Mean Annual Tempj
Refer to Flood Plain Unit 124                53 degrees
 
 
IECC Climatic Zones
Zone 4 Above 3500 elevation
 
SECTION R308 — GLAZING
SECTION R308.4.5 — Glazing and wet surfaces is hereby deleted in its entirety
and revised to read as follows:
   R308.4.5 — Glazing and wet surfaces.
   All interior and exterior glazing in bathrooms, the bottom edge of which is
less than 56 inches above the floor level shall be provided with
   safety glazing as per A.R.S. § 36-1631. This shall apply to single glazing
and all panes in multiple glazing.
   Exception: Glazing that is more than 60 inches (1524mm), measured
horizontally and in a straight line, from the water's edge of a bathtub, hot
tub, spa, whirlpool or swimming pool or from the edge of a shower, sauna or
steam room.
SECTION 309 Garages and Carports
SECTION R309.2 — Scope is hereby amended by insertion of new exceptions to read
as follows:
   Exception: Gravel surfaces shall be permitted at ground level in detached
carport with a minimum of ten feet away from any structure.
SECTION R313 — AUTOMATIC FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS
Sections R313.1 through R313.2.1 are hereby deleted in their entirety and
replaced with new section R313.1 Scope, to read as follows:
   Section R313.1 — Scope. Fire protection systems shall be install , repaired,
operated, maintained and enforced in accordance with the requirements of the
Central Arizona Fire and Medical Authority and the International Fire Code (as
adopted and amended by Central Arizona Fire and Medical Authority),
collectively, "Central Arizona Fire and Medical Authority requirements" The
Building Official shall assist the Central Arizona Fire and Medical Authority
in the inspection, testing and oversight of fire protection systems as may be
required from time to time. The Building Official shall withhold approval where
fire protection systems are not in compliance with Central Arizona Fire and
Medical Authority requirements.
SECTION R322 — Flood-resistant construction is hereby deleted in its entirety.
All references as may be noted within this code as adopted by Dewey- Humboldt
that pertain to flooding - flood-resistant construction - flood hazard areas
shall be controlled and regulated by the adopted provisions of the Yavapai
County Flood Control District.
   CHAPTER 4 FOUNDATIONS
SECTION R401 — GENERAL
SECTION R401.4 — Soils tests is hereby amended to read as follows:
   R401.4 — Soils tests. Areas within Dewey- Humboldt are likely to have
expansive, compressible shifting or other unknown soil conditions. The Building
Official may require a soil test to determine the soil's characteristics at a
particular location.
SECTION R403 — FOOTINGS
SECTION R403.1 — Continuous spread concrete footings shall be reinforced with
least one #4 horizontal reinforcement bar located three inches from the bottom
of the footing. Monolithic interior and exterior concrete footings shall be
reinforced with at least one #4 horizontal reinforcement bar located three
inches from the bottom of the footing and one #4 horizontal reinforcement bar
located three inches from the top of the slab. Pier and column footings shall
be reinforced with #4 horizontal reinforcement bars spaced no more than 12
inches in each direction and located three inches from the bottom of the
footing.
   SECTION R403.1.2 — FOUNDATION with stem walls. Foundation with stem walls
shall be provided with the following steel reinforcement, unless an engineered
design is provided by a licensed Arizona Design Professional.
      1.   For non-retaining stem walls less than 24 inches in height, a bond
beam composed of one horizontal #4 rebar is required at the top of the wall and
one #4 vertical rebar is provide at 48 inches on center. The vertical
reinforcement shall extent into the footing with a bent hook having a minimum
of six-inches.
      2.   For stem walls 24 inches to 48 inches in height a bond beam composed
of two horizontal #4, or one #5 rebar is required at the top of the wall and
one #4 vertical rebar is provided at 48 inches on center. The vertical
reinforcement shall extent into the footing with a bent hook having a minimum
of six-inches.
      3.   For stem walls over 48 inches in height or retaining two or more
feet of earth, engineering may be required to determine footing size, wall
thickness, materials, steel placement and size (depending on soil conditions)
height, surcharge loading, or other requirements at the option of the Building
Official (or his designee).
      4.   All exterior footings shall be place a minimum of 18 inches into
undisturbed or compacted soil approved by the building official.
   The exception at the end of this section is hereby deleted and amended to
read as follows:
   Note: The code location for a standard hook as shown in the 3rd paragraph
shall be added to read as follows: "Standard hook in compliance with Section
R608.5.4.5 and Figure R608.5.4(3)". Interior brace wall panels shall require a
minimum eight inch thickened slab and be reinforced with one #4 bar.
SECTION R404 — FOUNDATION AND RETAINING WALLS
SECTION R404.1.1.1 — Masonry foundation walls is hereby amended by deletion in
its entirety and revised to read as follows:
   R404.1.1.1 — Masonry foundation walls. Concrete masonry foundation walls and
clay masonry foundation walls shall be constructed as set forth in Tables
R404.1.1(2), R404.1.1(3) and R404.1.1(4) for the most restrictive design soil
class unless a soils classification has been provided by an approved agency
using an approved method and shall also comply with the provisions of this
section and the applicable provisions of Sections R606, R607 and R608. In
Seismic Design Category C, D0, D1 and D2, concrete masonry foundation walls
shall comply with Section R404.1.4.1. Rubble stone masonry walls shall not be
used in Seismic Design Category C, D0, D1 or D2 .
SECTION R404.1.2.2 — Reinforcement for foundation walls is hereby amended with
the insertion of "C" where "Seismic Design Categories D0, D1, and D2" appears
to read as "Seismic Design Categories C, D0, D1, and D2".
SECTION R404.1.4.1 — Masonry foundation walls is hereby amended with the
insertion of "C" where "Seismic Design Categories D0, D1, and D2" appears to
read as "Seismic Design Categories C, D0, D1, and D2".
SECTION R404.1.4.2 — Concrete foundation walls is hereby amended with the
insertion of "C" where "Seismic Design Categories D0, D1 , and D2 " appears to
read as "Seismic Design Categories C, D0, D1, and D2".
SECTION R404.1.8 — Rubble stone masonry is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   CHAPTER 5 FLOORS
SECTION R506 — CONCRETE FLOORS (ON GROUND)
SECTION R 506.2.3 Vapor retarder is hereby deleted in its entirety.
SECTION R507 — EXTERIOR DECKS
SECTION R507.3.2 Minimum Depth is hereby amended by the deletion of Exemptions
1 and 2.
   CHAPTER 9 ROOF ASSEMBLIES
SECTION R905 — REQUIREMENTS FOR ROOF COVERINGS
SECTION R905.3.1 — Is hereby deleted and revised to read as follows: Deck
Requirements. Concrete and clay tile shall be installed over solid sheathing.
SECTION R905.4.1 — Is hereby deleted and revised to read as follows: Deck
Requirements. Metal Roof Shingles shall be installed over solid sheathing.
SECTION R905.7.1 — Is hereby deleted and revised to read as follows: Deck
Requirements. Wood Shingles shall be installed over solid sheathing.
SECTION R905.8.1 — Is hereby deleted and revised to read as follows: Deck
Requirements. Wood Shake shall be installed over solid sheathing.
SECTION R905.10.1 — Is hereby deleted and revised to read as follows: Deck
Requirements. Metal roof panels shall be installed over solid sheathing.
   CHAPTER 10 CHIMNEYS AND FIREPLACES
SECTION 1001.1 — Masonry fireplaces: as per Chapter 10
   CHAPTER 11 ENERGY EFFICIENCY
CHAPTER 11 — ENERGY EFFICIENCY is hereby deleted in its entirety and all
regulations relating to energy efficiency shall be included within the
International Energy Conservation Code" as adopted by the Town of Dewey-
Humboldt, and as may be amended from time to time.
   CHAPTER 12 MECHANICAL ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 12 Mechanical Administration is deleted in its entirety. NOTE: The
Dewey- Humboldt Administrative Building Code, provisions as adopted by Dewey-
Humboldt shall be used as the administrative provisions for Chapters 12 through
24 of this code.
   CHAPTER 24 FUEL GAS
SECTION G2403 202 — GENERAL DEFINITIONS is hereby amended by revision of the
following term:
   CODE OFFICIAL. Is the BUILDING OFFICIAL as defined in Section 102.13 of the
"Dewey-Humboldt Administrative Building Code".
   SECTION G2404.7 (301.11) — Flood Hazard is hereby deleted in its entirety.
Enforcement and regulations of flood hazard areas within Dewey-
   Humboldt shall be controlled by Yavapai County Flood Control District.
SECTION G2406 (303) — APPLIANCE LOCATION
SECTION G2406.2 (303.2) — Prohibited locations is hereby amended by addition of
2nd sentence to read as follows:
SECTION G2406.2 — Hazardous locations. Liquefied petroleum gas piping shall not
serve any gas-fired appliance or equipment in a pit or basement where heavier-
than-air gas may collect to form flammable mixture.
SECTION G2415 (404) — PIPING SYSTEMS INSTALLATION
Section G2415.12 — Minimum Burial Depth = shall be installed a minimum depth of
12 inches below grade
SECTION G2415.17 (404.17) — Plastic pipe. See below
SECTION G2415.17.1 (404.17.1) Limitations is hereby amended to revise the first
paragraph to read as follows:
   SECTION G2415.17.1 (404.17.1) — Limitations. Plastic pipe shall be installed
outdoors underground only. The minimum burial depth for plastic pipe shall be
18 inches (457 mm) below finished grade. Plastic pipe shall not be used within
or under any building or slab or be operated at pressure greater than 100 psig
(689 kPa) for natural gas or 30 psig (207 kPa) for LP-gas.
SECTION G2420 (409) — GAS SHUTOFF VALVES
SECTION G2420.2 (409.2) — Meter valve is hereby amended by addition to the
following section to read as follows:
   G2420.2 (409.2) — Meter valve. Every meter shall be equipped with a shutoff
valve located on the supply side of the meter. Such shutoff shall be manually
operated and placed on the supply piping located outside the building it
supplies and shall be readily accessible at all times.
SECTION G2420.3 (409.3.2) — Individual buildings is amended to read as follows:
   G2420.3 (409.3.2) — Individual buildings. All buildings shall be provided
with a shutoff valve located on the downstream side of the gas meter, between
the gas meter and the building. Multiple buildings on the same system shall
have a separate shutoff valve for each building.
   CHAPTER 26 GENERAL PLUMBING REQUIREMENTS
SECTION P2601.2 (701.2) — Connections to drainage system. Is hereby amended by
insertion of additional exception to read as follows:
   Exception: Manufactured composting toilets included on the Arizona
Department of Environmental Quality Listing of Proprietary Products (latest
version) used to receive liquid wastes or sewage are not required to be
connected to the sanitary drainage system but are required to be a component in
an onsite wastewater system.
SECTION P2603 — STRUCTURAL AND PIPING PROTECTION
SECTION P2603.5 — Freezing is amended by the revision of the last sentence to
read as follows:
   P2603.5 — Freezing. Water service pipe shall be installed not less than 18
inches deep below finished grade and with a blue 18 AWG insulated tracer wire
terminating above grade at each end.
SECTION P2603.5.1 — Sewer depth is hereby amended to read as follows:
   P2603.5.1 — Sewer depth. Building sewers that connect to private sewage
disposal systems shall be a minimum of 12 inches below finished grade. Building
sewers shall be a minimum of 12 inches below grade with a green 18 AWG
insulated tracer wire terminating above grade at each end. Leach lines shall
have a green insulated 18 AWG tracer wire with the piping.
   CHAPTER 28 WATER HEATERS
SECTION P2801 — GENERAL
SECTION P2801.1 — Required is hereby amended by the addition of a second
paragraph to read as follows:
   P2801.1 — Required. All new residences with two or more bathrooms, or 1500
sq. ft. shall have a hot water re—circulating system installed.
SECTION P2804 — RELIEF VALVES
SECTION P2804.6.1 (504.6) — Requirements for discharge pipe, Item #5 is amended
to read as follows:
   P2804.6.1 — Requirements for discharge pipe.
      5.   Discharge to the floor, to an indirect waste receptor or to the
outdoors. Where discharging to the outdoors, discharge piping shall be no less
than six inches and no greater than 24 inches from finished outside grade.
   CHAPTER 39—40 DEVICES AND LUMINAIRES
SECTION E4002— RECEPTACLES
SECTION E4002.14 — Tamper-resistant Receptacles is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
SECTION E.3902.16 ARC-fault circuit-interrupter protection is hereby deleted
excepted for bedrooms and sleeping area.
      (2)   Findings and declaration. The Town Council of Dewey-Humboldt of
Yavapai County, Arizona specifically and expressly finds and declares that the
nature and uniqueness of the climate, terrain, and location does necessitate
and demand specific amendments to the International Residential One-and Two-
Family Dwelling Code, 2018 Edition, which are stated in this ordinance.
(Ord. 21-159, passed 4-20-2021)
§ 150.04 PLUMBING CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. There is hereby adopted by reference in Resolution 21-162,
that certain document known as the International Plumbing Code, 2006 Edition
including Appendixes B, C, D, E and F as published by the International Code
Council. Said document is hereby amended and adopted as the plumbing code for
the areas of Dewey-Humboldt for regulating the installation, maintenance, and
repair of plumbing, drainage systems, water systems, gas systems, and each and
all such regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the
International Plumbing Code, 2012 Edition including Appendixes B, C, D, and E
are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as set forth herein,
excepting such portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified, or amended.
   (B)   (1)   Amendments.
   CHAPTER 1 ADMINISTRATION
SECTION 101 — GENERAL
SECTION 101.1 — Title is amended by the insertion of "Dewey-Humboldt."
SECTIONS 102 through 106 and 108 through 110 are amended by deletion in their
entirety and replaced with the requirements of the Dewey- Humboldt
Administrative Building Code as adopted and as may be amended from time to
time.
   CHAPTER 2 DEFINITIONS
SECTION 201 — GENERAL
SECTION 201.3 Terms defined in other codes are hereby amended as follows: Where
terms are not defined in this code, such terms shall have the meanings ascribed
in other code publications of the International Residential Code and the most
recent Dewey-Humboldt Administrative Building Code. In the event there is a
conflict between the aforementioned codes, the Dewey-Humboldt Administrative
Building Code is superior.
SECTION 201.4 Terms not defined is hereby deleted in its entirety and revised
to read as follows:
   201.4 Terms not defined. Where terms are not defined through the methods
authorized by this chapter such terms shall have ordinarily accepted meanings
such as the context implies, Webster's Third New International Dictionary of
the English Language, Unabridged, shall be considered as providing ordinarily
accepted meanings.
SECTION 202 — GENERAL DEFINITIONS is hereby amended by revision of the
following term:
   CODE OFFICIAL. Is the BUILDING OFFICIAL as defined in Section 102.13 of the
"Dewey-Humboldt Administrative Building Code".
   CHAPTER 3 GENERAL REGULATIONS
SECTION 305 — PROTECTION OF PIPES AND PLUMBING SYSTEM COMPONENTS
SECTION 305.4.1 — Sewer depth is hereby amended to read as follows:
   305.4.1 — Sewer depth. Building sewers that connect to private sewage
disposal systems shall be a minimum of 12 inches below finished grade. Building
sewers shall be a minimum of 12 inches below grade with a green 18 AWG
insulated tracer wire terminating above grade at each end.
   CHAPTER 4 FIXTURES, FAUCETS AND
   FIXTURE FITTINGS
SECTION 403 — MINIMUM PLUMBING FACILITIES
Table 403.1 — Minimum number of required plumbing fixtures is hereby amended by
addition of new footnote "g" to Table 403.1 to read as follows:
Table 403.1 — Minimum number of fixtures.
   g.   Water coolers or bottled water dispensers may be substituted for
drinking fountains in B, M, and S occupancies with 25 or fewer occupants. Such
water shall be free of charge to the public.
   CHAPTER 5 WATER HEATERS
SECTION 504 — SAFETY DEVICES
SECTION 504.6 — Requirements for discharge piping. Item #5 is amended by
addition of a second sentence to read as follows:
   504.6 — Requirements for discharge piping.
      5.   Discharge to the floor, to the pan serving the water heater or
storage tank, to a waste receptor or the outdoors. Where discharging to the
outdoors, discharge piping shall be no less than six inches and no greater than
24 inches from finished outside grade.
   CHAPTER 6 WATER SUPPLY AND
   DISTRIBUTION
SECTION 603 WATER SERVICE
SECTION 603 — Water service pipe installation is hereby amended by addition of
new sections and 603.3.1 to read as follows:
   603.3 — Water service pipe installation. The installation of the water
service pipe shall comply with Sections 603.3.1 and 603.3.2.
   603.3.1 — Burial depth. The water service pipe shall be installed not less
than 12 inches below finished grade and not less than six inches below the
frost line. Plastic water piping shall be provided with a blue 18 AWG insulated
tracer wire terminating above grade at each end. Leach lines shall have a green
insulated 18 AWG tracer wire with the piping.
   CHAPTER 7 SANITARY DRAINAGE
SECTION 701.2 — Connections to sewer required. Is hereby amended by insertion
of additional exception to read as follows:
   Exception: Manufactured composting toilets included on the Arizona
Department of Environmental Quality Listing of Proprietary Products (latest
version) used to receive liquid wastes or sewage are not required to be
connected to the sanitary drainage system but are required to be a component in
an onsite wastewater system.
SECTION 714 — BACKWATER VALVES
SECTION 714.1 — Sewage backflow is hereby deleted in its entirety and amended
to read as follows:
   714.1 — Sewage backflow. All structures, where plumbing fixtures are
installed and connected to a public sewer system shall be protected by an
approved backwater valve. The backwater valve shall be installed in the
building drain and be accessible.
   CHAPTER 9 VENTS
SECTION 903 — VENT TERMINALS
SECTION 903.1 — Roof extension is amended by the insertion of nine inches.
      (2)   Findings and declaration. The Town Council of the Town of Dewey-
Humboldt of Yavapai County, Arizona specifically and expressly finds and
declares that the nature and uniqueness of the climate, terrain, and location
does necessitate and demand specific amendments to the International Plumbing
Code, 2018 Edition, which are stated in this ordinance.
(Ord. 21-159, passed 4-20-2021)
§ 150.05 MECHANICAL CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. There is hereby adopted by reference in Resolution 21-162,
that certain document known as International Mechanical Code, 2018 Edition
including Appendix A, as published by the International Code Council, Inc. Said
document is hereby amended and adopted as the Mechanical Code for the areas of
Dewey-Humboldt providing the regulating, installation and maintenance of
heating, ventilating, cooling and refrigeration systems, and each and all such
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the International
Mechanical Code, 2018 Edition, including Appendix A are hereby referred to,
adopted and made a part hereof as set forth herein, excepting such portions as
are hereinafter deleted, modified or amended.
   (B)   (1)   Amendments.
   CHAPTER 1 ADMINISTRATIVE
SECTION 101 GENERAL
SECTION 101.1 — Title is amended by the insertion of "Dewey-Humboldt."
SECTIONS 102 through 106 and 108 through 110 are amended by deletion in their
entirety and replacement with the requirements of the Dewey- Humboldt
Administrative Building Code, as adopted, and as may be amended from time to
time.
   CHAPTER 2 DEFINITIONS
SECTION 201 GENERAL
SECTION 201.3 Terms defined in other codes are hereby amended as follows: Where
terms are not defined in this code, such terms shall have the meanings ascribed
in other code publications of the International Residential Code and the most
recent Dewey-Humboldt Administrative Building Code. In the event there is a
conflict between the aforementioned codes, the Dewey-Humboldt Administrative
Building Code is superior.
SECTION 201.4 Terms not defined is hereby deleted in its entirety and revised
to read as follows:
   201.4 —Terms not defined. Where terms are not defined through the methods
authorized by this chapter such terms shall have ordinarily accepted meanings
such as the context implies, Webster's Third New International Dictionary of
the English Language, Unabridged, shall be considered as providing ordinarily
accepted meanings.
SECTION 202 — GENERAL DEFINITIONS is hereby amended by revision of the
following term:
   CODE OFFICIAL. Is the BUILDING OFFICIAL as defined in Section 102.13 of the
"Dewey-Humboldt Administrative Building Code".
   CHAPTER 3 GENERAL REGULATIONS
SECTION 303.2 — Hazardous locations is hereby amended by addition of a second
sentence to read as follows:
   SECTION 303.2 — Hazardous Locations. Liquefied petroleum gas piping shall
not serve any gas-fired appliance or equipment located in a pit or basement
where heavier-than-air gas might collect to form a flammable mixture.
   CHAPTER 9 SPECIFIC APPLIANCES, FIREPLACES AND SOLID FUEL—BURNING EQUIPMENT
SECTION 901 — GENERAL
SECTION 901.2 — General is hereby amended by the addition of the following
paragraphs to the end of this section to read as follows:
   901.2 — General. Fireplaces and solid-fuel- burning appliances to be
installed and shall comply with the clean burning standards established by
A.R.S. § 11-875 which shall prohibit the installation of a solid-fuel-burning
appliance unless it is one of the following:
      1.   A fireplace that has a permanently installed gas or electric log
insert.
      2.   A fireplace, a wood stove or any other solid fuel burning appliance
that is any of the following:
         a.   Certified by the United States Environmental Protection Agency as
in compliance with 40 Code of Federal Regulations part 60, subpart AAA in
effect on July 1, 1990.
         b.   A wood stove tested and listed by a nationally recognized testing
agency to meet performance standards equivalent to those in 40 Code of Federal
Regulations part 60, subpart AAA in effect July 1, 1990.
      3.   A fireplace that has a permanently installed wood stove insert that
complies with paragraph 2, subdivision (a), (b) or (c) of this section.
   (B)   (2)   Findings and declaration. The Town Council of Dewey-Humboldt of
Yavapai County, Arizona specifically and expressly finds and declares that the
nature and uniqueness of the climate, terrain, and location does necessitate
and demand specific amendments to the International Mechanical Code, 2018
Edition, which are stated in this ordinance.
(Ord. 21-159, passed 4-20-2021)
§ 150.06 FUEL GAS CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. There is hereby adopted by reference in Resolution 21-162,
that certain document known as International Fuel Gas Code, 2018 Edition,
including Appendixes A, B, C and D, as published by the International Code
Council, Inc. Said document is hereby amended and adopted as the Fuel Gas Code
for the areas of Dewey- Humboldt providing for the regulating, installation and
maintenance of fuel gas piping systems, fuel gas utilization equipment and
related accessories, and each and all such regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of the International Fuel Gas Code, 2018 Edition,
including
Appendixes A, B, C and D, are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part
hereof as set forth herein, excepting such portions as are hereinafter deleted,
modified or amended.
   (B)   (1)   Amendments.
   CHAPTER 1 ADMINISTRATIVE
SECTION 101 — GENERAL
SECTION 101.1 — Title is amended by the insertion of "Dewey-Humboldt."
SECTIONS 102 through 106 and 108 through 110 are amended by deletion in their
entirety and replaced with the requirements of the Dewey- Humboldt
Administrative Building Code, as adopted, and as may be amended from time to
time.
   CHAPTER 2 DEFINITIONS
SECTION 201 — GENERAL
SECTION 201.3 Terms defined in other codes are hereby amended as follows: Where
terms are not defined in this code, such terms shall have the meanings ascribed
in other code publications of the International Residential Code and the most
recent Dewey-Humboldt Administrative Building Code. In the event there is a
conflict between the aforementioned codes, the Dewey-Humboldt Administrative
Building Code is superior.
SECTION 201.4 Terms not defined is hereby deleted in its entirety and revised
to read as follows:
   201.4 Terms not defined. Where terms are not defined through the methods
authorized by this chapter such terms shall have ordinarily accepted meanings
such as the context implies. Webster's Third New International Dictionary of
the English Language, Unabridged, shall be considered as providing accepted
meanings.
SECTION 202 — GENERAL DEFINITIONS is hereby amended by revision of the
following term:
   CODE OFFICIAL. Is the BUILDING OFFICIAL as defined in Section 102.13 of the
"Dewey-Humboldt Administrative Building Code".
SECTION 301 — GENERAL
   CHAPTER 3 GENERAL REGULATIONS
SECTION 301.11 — Flood Hazard is hereby amended by the insertion of the
following sentence to the end of the paragraph to read as follows:
   301-11-Flood Hazard. See Section 101.4.9 of the Dewey-Humboldt
Administrative Building Code for further criteria.
SECTION 303 — APPLIANCE LOCATION
SECTION 303.2 — Hazardous locations is hereby amended by addition of 2nd
sentence to read as follows:
   SECTION 303.2 — Hazardous locations. Liquefied petroleum gas piping shall
not serve any gas-fired appliance or equipment in a pit or basement where
heavier-than-air gas may collect to form a flammable mixture.
   CHAPTER 4 GAS PIPING INSTALLATIONS
SECTION 404 — PIPING SYSTEM INSTALLATION
   SECTION 404.12 — Minimum burial depth is hereby deleted in its entirety and
revised to read as follows:
      404.12 — Minimum burial depth. Underground piping systems of metallic
pipe or metallic tubing shall be installed a minimum depth of 12 inches (305mm)
below grade, except as provided for in Section 404.12.1. Underground piping
systems of plastic pipe shall be installed a minimum of 18 inches (457mm) below
grade with a yellow 18 AWG insulated tracer wire.
      (2)   Findings and declaration. The Town Council of Dewey-Humboldt,
Arizona specifically and expressly finds and declares that the nature and
uniqueness of the climate, terrain, and location does necessitate and demand
specific amendments to the International Fuel Gas Code, 2018 Edition, which are
stated in this ordinance.
(Ord. 21-159, passed 4-20-2021)
§ 150.07 ELECTRICAL CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. There is hereby adopted by reference in Resolution 21-162,
that certain document known as the National Electrical Code, 2017 Edition as
published by the National Fire Protection Association. Said document is hereby
amended and adopted as the Electrical Code for the areas of Dewey-Humboldt for
regulating the installation, maintenance, operation and repair of all electric
wiring and electrical apparatus of any nature whatsoever, whether inside or
outside of any building or structure and each and all such regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the National Electrical Code,
2017 Edition are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof as set
forth herein, excepting such portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified or
amended.
   (B)   (1)   Amendments.
ARTICLE 90 INTRODUCTION
ARTICLE 90.1 — PURPOSE
ARTICLE 90-1(A) — Practical Safeguarding is amended by the addition of a second
paragraph to read as follows:
   Article 90-1(A) — Practical Safeguarding. Any and all electrical work for
light, heat, power or any other purposes shall be installed in conformity with
the rules and regulations as set forth in this Code, titled the National
Electrical Code, 2017 Edition, and in conformity with the rules and regulations
as set forth by the Building Official of Dewey-Humboldt as the authority having
jurisdiction.
Article 90-1(E) — Administration and Enforcement is hereby added as a sub
paragraph to read as follows:
   Article 90-1(E) — Administration and Enforcement - For the purpose of
administration and enforcement of the requirements of this code and amendments
thereto, the provisions of the Dewey-Humboldt Administrative Building Code as
adopted by separate ordinance, and as may be amended from time to time, shall
apply.
ARTICLE 406 RECEPTACLES, CORD CONNECTORS, AND ATTACHMENT PLUGS (CAPS)
ARTICLE 406 — RECEPTACLES, CORD CONNECTORS, AND ATTACHMENT PLUGS (CAPS)
ARTICLE 406.12 — Tamper Resistant Receptacles in Dwelling Units is hereby
deleted in its entirety.
      (2)   Findings and declaration. The Town of Dewey-Humboldt, Arizona
specifically and expressly finds and declares that the nature and uniqueness of
the climate, terrain, and location does necessitate and demand specific
amendments to the National Electric Code, 2017 Edition, which are stated in
this ordinance.
(Ord. 21-159, passed 4-20-2021)
§ 150.08 GRADING ORDINANCE CODE.
   (A)   Adopted. There is hereby adopted the Dewey-Humboldt Grading Code. Said
document is hereby adopted to set forth rules and regulations to control
excavation, grading, and earthwork construction, including fills and
embankments, and provides for approval of plans and inspections of grading
construction. The Dewey-Humboldt Administrative Building Code, establishes the
administrative procedure for issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefore and providing for severability and each and all conditions and terms
of the Dewey-Humboldt Grading Ordinance.
   (B)   (1)   Amendments.
SECTION 101 — TITLE, PURPOSE AND SCOPE
   101.1 — Title. These regulations are known as the Dewey-Humboldt Grading
Ordinance and shall be referred to herein as "this ordinance."
   101.2 — Purpose. The purpose of this ordinance is to safeguard life, limb,
property and the public welfare by regulating grading, excavation and earthwork
construction, including fills and embankments on private property, within the
areas of Dewey-Humboldt.
   101.3 — Scope. This ordinance sets forth rules and regulations to control
excavation, grading and earthwork construction, including fills and
embankments; establishes the administrative procedure for issuance of permits;
and provides for approval of plans and inspection of grading construction.
Where conflicts occur between the technical requirements of this ordinance and
the geotechnical report, the geotechnical report shall govern.
      101.3.1 — Standards.
      The standards listed below are recognized standards.
      ASTM D 1557—07
      ASTM D 1586—11
      ASTM D 2166M—13
      ASTM D 2216—10
      ASTM D 2487—06el
      The above listed standards are as found in 2012 International Building
Code Chapter 35 and/or the ASTM Referenced Standards.
SECTION 102 — FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
   102 — Flood hazard areas. The provisions for grading, excavation and
earthwork construction including fills and embankments within areas prone to
flooding as determined by the Yavapai County Flood Control District or in flood
hazard areas where design flood elevations are specified but floodways have not
been designated, unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and
hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice
that the proposed work will not result in any increase in the level of the base
flood. The review and approval of grading plans shall also be obtained from the
Yavapai County Flood Control District.
SECTION 103 — DEFINITIONS
   103 — DEFINITIONS. The following words and terms shall, for the purpose of
this ordinance, have the meanings shown herein. Refer to Chapter 2 of the
International Building Code for general definitions.
AS GRADED — The extent of surface conditions on completion of grading.
BEDROCK — In-place solid rock.
BENCH — A relatively level step excavated into earth material on which fill is
to be placed.
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) INCLUSIVE DEFINITION — Schedules of activities,
prohibitions of practices, maintenance procedures, and other management
practices to prevent or reduce the pollution of the municipal separate storm
sewer systems (MS4) including construction site access and waters of the United
States.
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) CONSTRUCTION DEFINITION — A BMP is a method
used to prevent or control stormwater runoff and the discharge of pollutants,
including sediment, into local water bodies. Silt fences, inlet protection, and
site-stabilization techniques are typical BMPs on a construction site.
BORROW — Earth material acquired from, an off- site or on-site location, for
use in grading on a site.
CIVIL ENGINEER — A professional engineer registered by the Arizona State Board
of Technical Registration, to practice, in the field of civil works.
CIVIL ENGINEERING — The application of the knowledge of the forces of nature,
principles of mechanics and the properties of materials to the evaluation,
design and construction of civil works.
COMPACTION — The densification of a fill by mechanical means.
CUT — See Excavation.
DOWN DRAIN — A device for collecting water from a swale or ditch located on or
above a slope, and safely delivering it to an approved drainage facility.
EARTH MATERIAL — Any rock, natural soil, fill, or any combination thereof.
ENGINEERING GEOLOGIST — A geologist experienced and knowledgeable in
engineering geology.
ENGINEERING GEOLOGY — The application of geologic knowledge and principles in
the investigation and evaluation of naturally occurring rock and soil for use
in the design of civil works.
EROSION — The wearing away of the ground surface as a result of the movement of
wind, water or ice.
EXCAVATION — The mechanical removal of earth material by artificial means also
referred to as a "cut".
FILL — A deposition of earth materials by artificial means.
GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER — See "Soils Engineer."
GRADE — The vertical location of the ground surface.
EXISTING GRADE — The grade prior to grading.
FINISH GRADE — The final grade of the site that conforms to the approved plan.
ROUGH GRADE — The stage at which the grade approximately conforms to the
approved plan.
GRADING — An excavation, or fill, or combination thereof.
INGRESS/EGRESS EASEMENT GRADING — Grading being done in conjunction with access
to multiple properties within the boundaries of designated private easements.
KEY — A compacted fill placed in a trench excavated in earth material beneath
the toe of a slope.
NOTICE OF INTENT (NOI) — The Notice of Intent that is required by the Arizona
Department of Environmental Quality (ADEQ) stormwater construction general
permit. Operators of construction activities that disturb one acre or greater
are required to submit a Notice of Intent, or NOI, to obtain authorization
under this general permit. Operators of construction activities that disturb
less than one acre but are part of a larger development must also submit an
NOI.
PROFESSIONAL INSPECTION — The inspection required by this ordinance to be
performed by the civil engineer, soils engineer or engineering geologist. Such
inspections include those performed by persons supervised by such engineers or
geologists and shall be sufficient to form an opinion relating to the conduct
of the work.
SITE — Any lot or parcel of land or contiguous combination thereof, under the
same ownership, where grading is performed or permitted.
SITE BOUNDARIES — Related to setbacks, is any lot or parcel of land or
contiguous combination thereof or limits within an ingress/egress easement,
where grading is performed or permitted.
SLOPE — An inclined ground surface the inclination of which is expressed as a
ratio of horizontal distance to vertical distance.
SOIL — Naturally occurring superficial deposits overlying bedrock.
SOILS ENGINEER (GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER) — A professional engineer registered by
the Arizona State Board of Technical Registration, to practice, in the field of
soils engineering (geo-technical) engineering.
SOILS ENGINEERING (GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEERING) — The application of the
principles of soils mechanics in the investigation, evaluation and design of
civil works involving the use of earth materials and the inspection or testing
of the construction thereof.
STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP) — A plan required by a permit to
discharge stormwater associated with a construction activity, and which
describes and ensures the implementation of practices that are to be used to
reduce the pollutants in stormwater discharges associated with construction
activities.
TERRACE — A relatively level step constructed in the face of a graded slope for
drainage and maintenance purposes.
SECTION 104 — PERMITS REQUIRED
   104.1 — Permits required. Except as specified in Section 104.2 of this
section, no person shall do any grading without first having obtained a grading
permit from the Building Official. Retaining walls and major drainage
structures required by the grading plans may be included on the grading permit.
Note additional fees may apply for retaining walls and structures beyond normal
grading construction.
      104.1.1 — Prior to issuance of a grading permit, except as specified in
Section 104.2 of this section and as specified in Arizona Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (AZPDES) General Permit No. AZG2013-001, Part III Section
1.2, operators' construction activities that disturb one acre or greater are
required to submit a Notice of Intent (NOI) to obtain authorization under the
Arizona Department of Environmental Qualities (ADEQ), AZPDES General Permit
      No. AZG2013-001. Operators of construction activities that disturb less
than one acre but are part of a larger development must also submit a NOI and
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan. A copy of the NOI and Stormwater
Pollution Prevention Plan submitted to ADEQ must be provided to Yavapai County.
   104.2 — Exempted work. A grading permit is not required for the following:
      1.   Any excavation below finished grade for basements and footings of a
building, retaining wall or other structure authorized by a valid building
permit. This shall not exempt any fill made with the material from such
excavation or exempt any excavation having an unsupported height greater than
five feet after the completion of such structure.
      2.   Cemetery graves.
      3.   Refuse disposal sites controlled by other regulations.
      4.   Excavations for wells or tunnels or utilities.
      5.   Mining, quarrying, excavating, processing or stockpiling of rock,
sand, gravel, aggregate or clay where established and provided for by A.R.S. §
11-865, provided such operations do not affect the lateral support, increase
the stresses in, or pressure upon any adjacent or contiguous property.
      6.   Exploratory excavations under the direction of soil engineers or
engineering geologists.
      7.   An excavation that (1) is less than two feet in depth; or (2) does
not create a cut slope greater than five feet in height and steeper than one
and one-half units horizontal in one unit vertical (66.7% slope) and less than
one acre in area.
      8.   Fill less than one foot in depth and placed on natural terrain with
a slope flatter than five horizontal to one vertical (20% slope), or less than
three feet in depth and less than one acre in area not intended to support
structures, which does not exceed 50 cubic yards on any one site and does not
obstruct a drainage course.
      9.   Grading projects within public right of ways for other than
structures requiring a building permit.
Exemption from the permit requirements of this ordinance shall not be deemed to
grant authorization for any work to be done in violation of the provisions of
this ordinance or any other laws or ordinances of this jurisdiction.
SECTION 105 — HAZARDS
   105 — Hazards. Whenever the building official determines that any existing
excavation or embankment or fill on private property has become a hazard to
life and limb, endangers property, adversely affects the safety, use or
stability of a public way or drainage channel. The owner, or agent in control
of said property on which the excavation or fill is located upon receipt of
notice in writing from the Building Official, shall within the period specified
therein repair or eliminate such excavation or embankment to eliminate the
hazard and to be in conformance with the requirements of this ordinance.
SECTION 106 — GRADING PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
   106.1 — Permits required. Except as exempted in Section 104.2 of this
ordinance, no person shall do any grading without first obtaining a grading
permit from Dewey-Humboldt Development Services. A separate permit shall be
obtained for each site, and the cubic yards per this section is the total
combination of excavation and fill grading work to be performed within the site
boundary.
   106.2 — Application. The provisions of the Dewey-Humboldt Administrative
Building Code are applicable to grading. Additionally, the application shall
state the estimated quantities of work involved.
   106.3 — Grading designation.
      1.   Grading in excess of 2,000 cubic yards shall be performed in
accordance with the approved grading plan prepared by a civil engineer, and
shall be designated as "engineered grading."
      2.   Grading involving 2,000 cubic yards or less shall be designated
"regular grading" unless the Building Official determines that special
conditions or unusual hazards exist, in which case grading shall conform to the
requirements for engineered grading.
      3.   Grading within established ingress/egress easements not intended to
support structures involving any cut and/or fill shall be designated as
ingress/egress easement grading. When in excess of 2,000 cubic yards grading
shall be performed in accordance with the approved grading plan prepared by a
civil engineer per "Engineered Grading" designation.
   106.4 — Engineered grading requirements. Application for a grading permit
shall be accompanied by two sets of plans, specifications, a Stormwater
Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) if applicable and supporting data consisting
of a soils engineering report and engineering geology report. The plans and
specifications shall be prepared and signed by an individual licensed by the
State to prepare such plans or specifications.
   Specifications shall contain information covering construction and material
requirements.
   Plans shall be drawn to scale upon substantial paper or cloth and shall be
of sufficient clarity to indicate the nature and extent of the work proposed.
Plans shall show in detail that they will conform to the provisions of this
ordinance and all relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations. The first
sheet of each set of plans shall give location of the work, the name and
address of the owner, and the person by whom they were prepared.
   The plans shall include the following information:
   1.   Estimated cubic yards of material to be excavated and/or filled (total
of the combination).
   2.   Cut and fill amounts under the footprint of new permitted structures
are not required to be included in the total amounts with a grading permit.
   3.   General vicinity of the proposed grading site.
   4.   Property limits and accurate contours of existing ground and details of
terrain and area drainage.
   5.   Limiting dimensions, elevations or finish contours to be achieved by
the grading, and proposed drainage channels and related construction. Plans
shall include two cross sections at 90 degree angle to each.
   6.   Detailed plans are to be provided of all surface and subsurface
drainage devices, walls, cribbing, dams and other protective devices to be
constructed. Detailed plans are to include as a part of, the proposed work, a
map showing the drainage area and the estimated runoff of the area served by
any drains.
   7.   Location of any buildings or structures on the property and on land of
adjacent owners that are within 15 feet of the property where the work is to be
performed.
   8.   Recommendations included in the soils engineering report and the
engineering geology report shall be incorporated in the grading plans or
specifications. When approved by the Building Official, specific
recommendations contained in the soils engineering report and the engineering
geology reports, which are applicable to grading, may be included by reference.
   9.   The dates of the soils engineering and engineering geology reports
together with the names, addresses and phone numbers of the firms or
individuals who prepared the reports.
   10.   The Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) if applicable.
      A.   The Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan should include all erosion
and sediment control measures necessary to meet the objectives of the (ADEQ)
(AZPDES General Permit No. AZG2013-001) regulations throughout all phases of
construction and after completion of development of the site.
   106.5 — Soils engineering report. The soils engineering report required by
Section 106.4, #7 shall include data regarding the nature, distribution and
strength of existing soils. The soils engineering report shall include
conclusions and recommendations for grading procedures and design criteria for
corrective measures, including buttress fills, when necessary. Report shall
include the soils engineering opinion on adequacy for the intended use of sites
to be developed by the proposed grading as affected by soils engineering
factors, including the stability of slopes. The required soils reports shall
include data as required per the International Building Code, 2018 Edition, by
Section 1803.6.
   106.6 — Engineering geology report. The engineering geology report required
by Section 106.4, #7 shall include an adequate description of the geology of
the site, conclusions and recommendations regarding the effect of geologic
conditions on the proposed development. Report shall include opinion on the
adequacy for the intended use of sites to be developed by the proposed grading,
as affected by geologic factors.
   106.7 — Regular grading requirements. Each application for a grading permit
shall be accompanied by two sets of plans of sufficient clarity to indicate the
nature and extent of the work.
   The plan shall include the following information:
      1.   Estimated cubic yards of material to be excavated and/or filled
(total of the combination).
      2.   Cut and fill amounts under the footprint of new permitted structures
are not required to be included in the total amounts with a grading permit.
      3.   General vicinity of the proposed grading site.
      4.   Property limits and accurate contours of existing ground and details
of terrain and area drainage.
      5.   Limiting dimensions, elevations, or finish contours to be achieved
by the grading, and proposed drainage channels and related construction. Plans
shall include two cross sections at 90 degree angle to each.
      6.   Detailed plans are to be provided of all surface and subsurface
drainage devices, walls, cribbing, dams and other protective devices to be
constructed. Detailed plans are to include as a part of, the proposed work, a
map showing the drainage area and the estimated runoff of the area served by
any drains.
      7.   Location of any buildings or structures on the property and the
location of any buildings or structures on land of adjacent owners that are
within 15 feet of the property line(s) that may be affected by the proposed
grading operations.
      8.   Type and source of fill material.
      9.   A soil investigation report and a report of satisfactory placement
of fill, both acceptable to the building official, shall be submitted for fills
used to support the foundations of any building or structure.
      10.   The following notes are required on the plans:
         A.   The ground surface shall be prepared to receive fill by removing
vegetation, non-complying fill, and other unsuitable materials.
         B.   No rock or similar irreducible material with a maximum dimension
greater than 12 inches shall be allowed in fills in the absence of a soils
report and inspection by a soils engineer.
         C.    All fills shall be compacted to a minimum of 90% of maximum
density and verified by a compaction report when supporting a structure.
      11.   The Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) if applicable
         A.   The Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan should include all
erosion and sediment control measures necessary to meet the objectives of the
ADEQ, (AZPDES General Permit No. AZG2013-001) regulations throughout all phases
of construction and after completion of development of the site.
SECTION 107 — ISSUANCE
   107. — Issuance. The provisions of Section 105 of the Dewey-Humboldt
Administrative Building Code are applicable to grading permits. The Building
Official may require that grading operations and project designs be modified if
delays occur which incur weather-generated problems not considered at the time
the permit was issued.
   The Building Official may require professional inspection and testing by the
soils engineer. When the Building Official has cause to believe that geologic
factors may be involved, the grading will be required to conform to Engineered
Grading.
SECTION 108 — GRADING FEES
   108.1 — General. Fees shall be assessed in accordance with the provisions as
set forth in the Valuation & Fee Schedule adopted by the Dewey- Humboldt Town
Council.
   108.2 — Plan Review Fees. When plans or other data are required to be
submitted, a plan review fee shall be paid at the time of submitting plans and
specifications for review. Said plan review fee shall be as set forth in
Valuation & Fee Schedule.
   Separate plan review fees shall apply to retaining walls or major drainage
structures as required elsewhere in this code. For excavation and fill on the
same site the fee shall be based on the total volume of grading work being done
(both excavating and fill). Grading cut and fill amounts for ingress/egress
easements shall be calculated on the entire length of the ingress/egress
easements to be graded.
   108.3 — Grading Permit Fees. A fee for each grading permit shall be paid to
the Building Official as set forth in the Valuation & Fee Schedule. Separate
permits and fees shall apply to retaining walls or major drainage structures as
required elsewhere in this code. There shall be no separate charge for standard
terrace drains and similar facilities.
SECTION 109 — CUTS
   109.1 — General. Unless otherwise recommended in the approved soils
engineering or engineering geology report, cuts shall conform to the provisions
of this section.
   In the absence of an approved soils engineering report, these provisions may
be waived for minor cuts not intended to support structures.
   109.2 — Slope. The slope of cut surfaces shall be no steeper than is safe
for the intended use, and shall be no steeper than two horizontal to one
vertical (50%) unless the applicant furnishes a soils report justifying a
steeper slope.
      Exceptions:
         1.   A cut surface may be at a slope of one and one-half horizontal to
one vertical (67%) provided that all the following are met:
         1.1   It is not intended to support structures or surcharges.
         1.2   It is adequately protected against erosion.
         1.3   It is no more than eight feet (2438 mm) height.
         1.4   It is approved by the building official.
         2.   A cut surface in bedrock shall be permitted to be at a slope of
one horizontal to one vertical (100%).
SECTION 110 — FILLS
   110.1 — General. Unless otherwise recommended in the approved soils
engineering report, fills shall conform to the provisions of this section.
   In the absence of an approved soils engineering report, these provisions may
be waived for minor fills not intended to support structures.
   110.2 — Preparation of ground. Fill slopes shall not be constructed on
natural slopes steeper than two units horizontal to one unit vertical (50%
slope). The ground surface shall be prepared to receive fill; by removing
vegetation, non- complying fill, topsoil and other unsuitable materials
scarifying to provide a bond with the new fill.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dabe9726ae38701612cdb69c32e218ccf7d4b064/
IMAGES/0-0-0-683.jpg]
 
   Where determined by the soils engineer, slopes that are steeper than five
horizontal to one vertical (20% slope) and the height is greater than five,
benching into sound bedrock or other competent material shall be provided. The
bench under the toe of a fill on a slope steeper than five horizontal to one
vertical (20% slope) shall be at least ten feet wide. The area beyond the toe
of fill shall be sloped for sheet overflow or a paved drain shall be provided.
When fill is to be placed over a cut, the bench under the toe of fill shall be
at least ten feet wide. The cut shall be made before placing the fill and
acceptance by the soils engineer or engineering geologist or both as a suitable
foundation for fill. (See figure 110.2 Benching Details).
   110.3 — Fill Material. Detrimental amounts of organic material shall not be
permitted in fills. No rock or similar irreducible material with a maximum
dimension greater than 12 inches shall be buried or placed in fills.
      Exception: The Building Official may permit placement of larger rock when
the soils engineer properly devises a method of placement, and continuously
inspects its placement and approves the fill stability.
      The following conditions shall also apply:
         1.   Prior to issuance of the grading permit, potential rock disposal
areas shall be delineated on the grading plan.
         2.   Rock sizes greater than 12 inches in maximum dimension shall be
ten feet or more below grade, measured vertically.
         3.   Rocks shall be placed to assure filling of all voids with well-
graded soil.
   110.4 — Compaction. All fill material shall be compacted to 90% of maximum
density as determined by ASTM D.1557, modified proctor, in lifts not exceeding
12 inches in depth.
   110.5 — Maximum slope. The slope of fill surfaces shall be no steeper than
is safe for the intended use. Fill slopes steeper than two horizontal to one
vertical (50%) shall be justified by soil reports or engineering data.
SECTION 111 — SETBACKS
   111.1 — General. Cut and fill slopes shall be set back from the site
boundaries in accordance with this section. Setback dimensions shall be
measured perpendicular to the site boundary and shall be as shown in Figure
111, Drainage Dimensions, unless substantiating data is submitted justifying
reduced setbacks.
   111.2 — Top of cut slope. The setback at the top of a cut slope shall not be
less than shown in Figure 111 or than is required to accommodate any required
interceptor drains, whichever is greater.
   111.3 — Toe of fill slope protection. Where required to protect adjacent
properties at the toe of a slope from adverse effects of the grading,
additional protection approved by the building official shall be included. Such
protection may include but is not limited to:
      1.   Setback greater than those required by Figure 111.
      2.   Provision for retaining walls or similar construction.
      3.   Erosion protection of the fill slopes.
      4.   Provisions for the control of surface waters.
   111.4 — Modification of slope location. The building official may approve
alternate setbacks. The building official may require an investigation and
recommendation by a qualified engineer or engineering geologist to demonstrate
that the intent of this section has been satisfied.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dabe9726ae38701612cdb69c32e218ccf7d4b064/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1066.png]
 
FIGURE 111 DRAINAGE DIMENSIONS
SECTION 112 — Drainage and Terracing
   112.1 — General. Unless otherwise recommended by a registered design
professional, drainage facilities and terracing shall be provided in accordance
with the requirement of this section.
      Exception. Drainage facilities and terracing need not be provided where
the ground slope is not steeper than three horizontal to one vertical (33%).
   112.2 — Terrace. Terraces at least six feet in width shall be established at
not more than 30 foot (9144 mm) vertical intervals on all cut or fill slopes to
control surface drainage and debris. Suitable access shall be provided to allow
for cleaning and maintenance. Where two or more terraces are required, one
terrace, located at approximately mid-height, shall be at least 12 feet (3658
mm) in width.
   Swales or ditches shall be provided on terraces. They shall have a minimum
gradient of 20 horizontal to one vertical (5%) and shall be paved with concrete
not less than three inches (76 mm) in thickness or with other material suitable
to the application. They shall have a minimum depth of 12 inches (305 mm) and a
minimum of five feet.
   A single run of swale or ditch shall not collect runoff from a tributary
area exceeding 13,500 square feet (projected) without discharging into a down-
drain.
   112.3 — Subsurface drainage. Cut and fill slopes shall be provided with
subsurface drainage as necessary for stability.
   112.4 — Disposal. All drainage facilities shall be designed to carry waters
to the nearest practicable drainage way approved by the Building Official or
other appropriate jurisdiction as a safe place to deposit such waters. Erosion
of ground in the area of discharge shall be prevented by installation of non-
erosive down-drains or other devices.
   Building pads shall have a drainage gradient of 2% toward approved drainage
facilities, unless waived by the Building Official.
      Exception: The gradient from the building pad may be % if all of the
following conditions exist throughout the permit area:
         1.   No proposed fills are greater than ten feet in maximum depth.
         2.   No proposed finish cut or fill slope faces have a vertical height
in excess of ten feet.
         3.   No existing slope faces steeper than one vertical to ten
horizontal (10% slope) have a vertical height in excess of ten feet.
   112.5 — Interceptor drains. Interceptor drains shall be installed along the
top of cut slopes receiving drainage from a tributary width greater than 40
feet measured horizontally. They shall have a minimum depth of one foot and a
minimum width of three feet. The slope shall be approved by the building
official, but shall not be less than 50 horizontal to one vertical (2%). The
drain shall be paved with concrete not less than three inches in thickness, or
by other materials suitable to the application. Discharge from the drain shall
be accomplished in a manner to prevent erosion and shall be approved by the
building official.
   112.6 — Drainage across property lines. Drainage across property lines shall
not exceed that which existed prior to grading. Excess or concentrated drainage
shall be contained on site or directed to an approved drainage facility.
Erosion of the ground in the area of discharge shall be prevented by
installation of non-erosive down- drains or other devices.
SECTION 113 — EROSION CONTROL
   113.1 — Slopes. The faces of cut and fill slopes shall be prepared and
maintained to control erosion. This control may consist of effective planting.
      Exception. Erosion control measures need not be provided on cut slopes
not subject to erosion due to the erosion-resistant character of the materials.
   113.2 — Other devices. Where necessary, check dams, cribbing, riprap or
other devices or methods shall be employed to control erosion and provide
safety.
SECTION 114 — GRADING INSPECTION
   114.1 — General. Grading operations for which a permit is required shall be
subject to inspection by the building official.
   Professional inspection shall be provided by the civil engineer, soils
engineer and the engineering geologist retained to provide such services in
accordance with Section 114.5 for engineered grading and as required by the
building official for regular grading. A site investigation shall be performed
to determine that such grading is going to conform to the boundaries of the
designated ingress/egress easements and the boundaries of the easements shall
be appropriately flagged to indicate easement locations and cut or fill
locations.
   114.2 — Civil engineer. The civil engineer shall provide professional
inspection within such engineer's area of technical specialty, which shall
consist of observation and review as to the establishment of line, grade and
surface drainage of the development area. If revised plans are required during
the course of the work they shall be prepared by the civil engineer.
   114.3 — Soils engineer. The soils engineer shall provide professional
inspection within such engineer's area of technical specialty, which shall
include observation during grading and testing for required compaction. The
soils engineer shall provide observation during the preparation of the natural
ground, placement and compaction of the fill to verify that such work is being
performed in accordance with of the approved plan and requirements of this
chapter. Revised recommendations relating to conditions differing from the
approved soils engineering and engineering geology reports shall be submitted
to the permittee, the building official and the civil engineer.
   114.4 — Engineering geologist. The engineering geologist shall provide
professional inspection within such engineer's area of technical specialty,
which shall include professional inspection of the bedrock excavation to
determine if conditions encountered are in conformance with the approved
report. Revised recommendations relating to conditions differing from the
approved engineering geology report shall be submitted to the soils engineer.
   114.5 — Permittee. The permittee shall be responsible for the work to be
performed in accordance with the approved plans, specifications and with the
provisions of this code. The permittee shall engage consultants, if required,
to provide professional inspections on a timely basis. The permittee shall act
as a coordinator between the consultants, the contractor and the Building
Official. In case of changed conditions, the permittee shall be responsible for
informing the Building Official of such change and shall provide revised plans
for approval.
   114.6 — Building official. The building official shall inspect the project
at the various stages of work requiring approval to determine that adequate
control is being exercised by the professional consultants.
   114.7 — Notification of noncompliance. When fulfilling their respective
duties under this chapter, if the civil engineer, the soils engineer or the
engineering geologist finds discrepancies in work as not being in conformance
with this ordinance or the approved grading plans, the discrepancies shall be
reported immediately in writing to the permittee and to the building official.
   114.8 — Transfer of responsibility. If the civil engineer, the soils
engineer, or the engineering geologist of record is changed during grading, the
work shall be stopped until a replacement engineer has agreed in writing to
accept responsibility within their area of technical competence for approval
upon completion of the work. It shall be the duty of the permittee to notify
the building official in writing, of such change prior to the recommencement of
such grading.
SECTION 115 — COMPLETION OF WORK
   115.1 — Final reports. Upon completion of the rough grading work and at the
completion of final grading work, the following are required:
   1. As-built grading plans shall be prepared by the civil engineer retained
to provide services in accordance with Section 106.4. Plans shall show original
ground surface elevations, as-graded ground surface elevations, lot drainage
patterns, and the locations and elevations of surface drainage facilities and
of the outlets of subsurface drains. As-constructed locations, elevations and
details of subsurface drains shall be shown as reported by the soils engineer.
   Civil engineers shall state that to the best of their knowledge the work
within their area of responsibility was done in accordance with the final
approved grading plan.
   Soils Engineer retained to provide services in accordance with Section 106.5
shall prepare a report. The report shall include locations and an elevation of
field density tests, summaries of field and laboratory tests, and other
substantiating data. Report shall include comments on any changes made during
grading and their effect on the recommendations made in the approved soils
engineering investigation report.
   Soils engineers shall submit a statement that, to the best of their
knowledge, the work within their area of responsibility is in accordance with
the approved soils engineering report and applicable provisions of this
chapter.
   Engineering geologist retained to provide services in accordance with
Section 106.4 shall provide a report. Report shall include a final description
of the geology of the site and any new information disclosed during the grading
and the
   effect of same on recommendations incorporated in the approved grading plan.
Engineering geologists shall submit a statement that, to the best of their
knowledge, the work within their area of responsibility is in accordance with
the approved engineering geologist report and applicable provisions of this
chapter.
   The grading contractor shall submit in a form prescribed by the building
official a statement of conformance in according with the as-built plan and the
specifications.
   115.2 — Notification of completion. The permittee shall notify the building
official when the grading operation is ready for final inspection. Final
approval shall not be given until all work; including installation of all
drainage facilities and their protective devices, and all erosion-control
measures have been completed in accordance with the final approved grading
plan.
      (2)   Findings and declaration. The Town of Dewey-Humboldt of Yavapai
County, Arizona specifically and expressly finds and declares that the nature
and uniqueness of the climate, terrain, and location does necessitate and
demand specific amendments to the Dewey- Humboldt Grading Ordinance, which are
stated in this ordinance.
(Ord. 21-159, passed 4-20-2021)
§ 150.09 EXISTING BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. There is hereby adopted by reference in Resolution 21-162,
that certain document known as International Existing Building Code, 2018
Edition, including Appendixes A, B, and C, as published by the International
Code Council, Inc. Said document is hereby amended and adopted as the Existing
Building Code for the areas of Dewey-Humboldt providing for regulating and
governing the repair, alteration, change of occupancy, addition and relocation
of existing buildings, including historic buildings, and each and all such
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms, excepting such
portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified or amended.
   (B)   (1)   Amendments.
   CHAPTER 1 ADMINISTRATIVE
SECTION 101 — GENERAL
SECTION 101.1 — Title is amended by the insertion of "Dewey-Humboldt."
SECTIONS 102 through 115 are amended by deletion in their entirety and
replacement with the requirements of the Dewey-Humboldt Administrative Building
Code, as adopted, and as may be amended from time to time.
   CHAPTER 2 DEFINITIONS
SECTION 201 — GENERAL
SECTION 201.3 Terms defined in other codes are hereby amended as follows: Where
terms are not defined in this code, such terms shall have the meanings ascribed
in other code publications of the International Residential Code and the most
recent Dewey-Humboldt Administrative Building Code. In the event there is a
conflict between the aforementioned codes, the Dewey-Humboldt Administrative
Building Code is superior.
SECTION 201.4 Terms not defined is hereby deleted in its entirety and revised
to read as follows:
   201.4 Terms not defined. Where terms are not defined through the methods
authorized by this chapter such terms shall have ordinarily accepted meanings
such as the context implies, Webster's Third New International Dictionary of
the English Language, Unabridged, shall be considered as providing accepted
meanings.
SECTION 202 — GENERAL DEFINITIONS is hereby amended by revision of the
following term:
   CODE OFFICIAL. Is the BUILDING OFFICIAL as defined in Section 102.13 of the
"Dewey-Humboldt Administrative Building Code".
      (2)   Findings and declaration. The Town of Dewey-Humboldt of Yavapai
County, Arizona specifically and expressly finds and declares that the nature
and uniqueness of the climate, terrain, and location does necessitate and
demand specific amendments to the International Existing Building Code, 2018
Edition, which are stated in this ordinance.
(Ord. 21-159, passed 4-20-2021)
§ 150.10 SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. There is hereby adopted by reference in Resolution 21-162,
that certain document known as International Swimming Pool And Spa Code, 2018
Edition, as published by the International Code Council, Inc. Said documents
are hereby amended and adopted as the ISPSC and A.R.S. § 36-1681 for the areas
of Dewey- Humboldt providing for the regulating, installation and maintenance
of swimming pools and spas, equipment thereof and related accessories, and each
and all such regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the
ISPSC, 2018 Edition and A.R.S. § 36-1681 are hereby referred to, adopted and
made a part hereof as set forth herein, excepting such portions as are
hereinafter deleted, modified or amended.
   (B)   (1)   Amendments.
   CHAPTER 1 ADMINISTRATIVE
SECTION 101 — GENERAL
SECTION 101.1 — Title is amended by the insertion of "Dewey-Humboldt."
SECTIONS 102 through 108 are amended by deletion in their entirety and
replacement with the requirements of the Dewey-Humboldt Administrative Building
Code, as adopted, and as may be amended from time to time.
   CHAPTER 2 DEFINITIONS
SECTION 201 — GENERAL
SECTION 201.3 Terms defined in other codes are hereby amended as follows: Where
terms are not defined in this code, such terms shall have the meanings ascribed
in other code publications of the International Residential Code and the most
recent Dewey-Humboldt Administrative Building Code. In the event there is a
conflict between the aforementioned codes, the Dewey-Humboldt Administrative
Building Code is superior.
SECTION 201.4 Terms not defined is hereby deleted in its entirety and revised
to read as follows:
   201.4 Terms not defined. Where terms are not defined through the methods
authorized by this chapter such terms shall have ordinarily accepted meanings
such as the context implies, Webster's Third New International Dictionary of
the English Language, Unabridged, shall be considered as providing accepted
meanings.
SECTION 202 — DEFINITIONS is hereby amended by revision on the following terms:
   POOLS. Contained bodies of water that contain water 18 inches or more in
depth at any point and that are wider than 8 feet at any point and are intended
for swimming (A.R.S. § 36-1681.A).
   CODE OFFICIAL. Is the BUILDING OFFICIAL as defined in Section 102.13 of the
"Dewey-Humboldt Administrative Building Code".
CHAPTER 3 GENERAL COMPLIANCE
SECTION 301 — GENERAL
SECTION 303 — ENERGY
SECTION 303 — ENERGY is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the
provisions of the "2006 International Energy Conservation Code" as adopted by
Dewey-Humboldt.
SECTION 304 — FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
SECTION 304 — FLOOD HAZARD AREAS is hereby deleted in its entirety. Enforcement
and regulations of FLOOD HAZARD AREAS within Yavapai County shall be controlled
by Yavapai County Flood Control District.
SECTION 305 BARRIER REQUIREMENTS
SECTION 305.1 General is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with:
   The provisions of this section shall apply to the design of barriers for
restricting entry into areas having pools and spas. Where spas or hot tubs are
equipped with a lockable safety cover complying with ASTM F1346 and swimming
pools are protected by a motorized safety pool cover that complies with ASTM
F1346 that requires the operation of a key switch which meets the ASTM
emergency standards 13-89 and which does not require manual operation other
than the use of the key switch. The areas where those spas, hot tubs or pools
are located shall not be required to comply with amended Sections 305.2 through
305.7 (A.R.S. § 36-1681.C.2.
SECTION 305.2 Outdoor swimming pools and spas is hereby deleted in its entirety
and reads as:
   Outdoor pools and spas and indoor swimming pools shall be surrounded by a
barrier that complies with Sections 305.2.1 through 305.7.
SECTION 305.2.1 — Barrier height and clearances is hereby deleted and replaced
with the following:
   305.2.1 Barrier height and clearances. Barrier heights and clearances shall
be in accordance with each of the following:
      1.   Be entirely enclosed by at least a 60 inch (1524 mm) wall, fence or
other barrier as measured on the exterior side of the w all, fence or barrier
(A.R.S. § 36-1681.B.1.) Such height shall exist around the entire perimeter of
the barrier and for a distance of three feet (914 mm) measured horizontally
from the outside of the required barrier.
      2.   The vertical clearance between grade and the bottom of the barrier
shall not exceed two inches (51 mm) for grade surfaces that are not solid, such
as grass or gravel, where measured on the side of the barrier that faces away
from the pool or spa.
      3.   The vertical clearance between a surface below the barrier to a
solid surface, such as concrete, and the bottom of the required barrier shall
not exceed four inches (102 mm) where measured on the side of the required
barrier that faces away from the pool or spa.
      4.   Where the top of the pool or spa structure is above grade, the
barrier shall be installed on grade or shall be mounted on top of the pool or
spa structure. Where the barrier is mounted on the top of the pool or spa, the
vertical clearance between the top of the pool or spa and the bottom of the
barrier shall not exceed four inches (102 mm).
      5.   The wall, fence or barrier shall not contain openings, handholds or
footholds accessible from the exterior side of the enclosure that can be used
to climb the wall, fence or barrier (A.R.S. § 36-1681.B.4.
SECTION 305.2.2 — Openings is hereby deleted and replaced with the following:
   305.2.2 Openings.
   Openings in the barrier shall not allow passage of a four-inch-diameter (102
mm) sphere. (see 305.2.1-5 amended).
SECTION 305.2.4 — Mesh fence as a barrier is hereby deleted by revisions to the
following subsection as listed:
   305.2.4 Mesh fence as a barrier.
Mesh fences, other than chain link fences in accordance with Section 305.2.7,
shall be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions and shall
comply with the following:
      1.   The bottom of the mesh fence shall be not more than one inch (25 mm)
above the deck or installed surface or grade.
      2.   The maximum vertical clearance from the bottom of the mesh fence and
the solid surface shall not permit the fence to be lifted more than four inches
(102 mm) from grade or decking.
      3.   The fence shall be designed and constructed so that it does not
allow passage of a four-inch (102 mm) sphere under any mesh panel. The maximum
vertical clearance from the bottom of the mesh fence and the solid surface
shall be not greater than four inches (102 mm) from grade or decking.
      4.   An attachment device shall attach each barrier section at a height
not lower than 45 inches (1143 mm) above grade. Common attachment devices
include, but are not limited to, devices that provide the security equal to or
greater than that of a hook-and-eye type latch incorporating a spring-actuated
retaining lever such as a safety gate hook.
      5.   Where a hinged gate is used with a mesh fence, the gate shall comply
with Section 305.3.
      6.   Patio deck sleeves such as vertical post receptacles that are placed
inside the patio surface shall be of a nonconductive material.
      7.   Mesh fences shall not be installed on top of on-ground residential
pools.
SECTION 305.2.5 — Closely spaced horizontal members is hereby deleted and
replaced with the following:
   Section 305.2.5 — Closely spaced horizontal members.
   Where the barrier is composed of horizontal and vertical members and the
distance between the tops of the horizontal members is less than 45 inches
(1143 mm), the horizontal members shall be located on the pool or spa side of
the fence. Spacing between vertical members shall not exceed one and three-
quarter inches (44 mm) in width. Where there are decorative cutouts within
vertical members, spacing within the cutouts shall not exceed one and three-
quarter inches (44 mm) in width.
SECTION 305.2.6 — Widely spaced horizontal members is hereby deleted and
replaced with the following:
   Section 305.2.6 — Widely spaced horizontal members.
   Where the barrier is composed of horizontal and vertical members and the
distance between the tops of the horizontal members is 45 inches (1143 mm) or
more, spacing between vertical members shall not exceed four inches (102 mm).
Where there are decorative cutouts within vertical members, the interior width
of the cutouts shall not exceed one and three-quarter inches (44 mm).
SECTION 305.2.7 — Chain link dimensions is hereby deleted and replaced with the
following:
   Section 305.2.7 — Chain link dimensions.
   The maximum opening formed by a chain link fence shall be not more than one
and three quarter inches (44 mm). Where the fence is provided with slats
fastened at the top and bottom
   that reduce the openings, such openings shall be not greater than one and
three-quarter inches (44 mm).
SECTION 305.2.8 — Diagonal members is hereby deleted and replaced with the
following:
   Section 305.2.8 — Diagonal members.
   Where the barrier is composed of diagonal members, the maximum opening
formed by the diagonal members shall be not greater than one and three-quarter
inches (44 mm). The angle of diagonal members shall be not greater than 45
degrees (0.79 rad) from vertical.
SECTION 305.2.9 — Clear Zone is hereby deleted and replaced with the following:
   Section 305.2.9 — Clear zone.
   There shall be a clear zone of not less than 36 inches (914 mm) between the
exterior of the barrier and any permanent structures or equipment such as
pumps, filters and heaters that can be used to climb the barrier.
SECTION 305.2.10 — Poolside barrier setbacks is hereby deleted and replaced
with the following:
   Section 305.2.10 — Poolside barrier setbacks.
   The pool or spa side of the required barrier shall be not less than 20
inches (508 mm) from the water's edge.
SECTION 305.3 — Gates is hereby deleted and replaced with the following:
   Section 305.3— Gates.
   Access gates shall comply with the requirements of Sections 305.3.1 through
305.3.3 and shall be equipped to accommodate a locking device. All gates shall
open outward away from the pool or spa, shall be self-closing and shall have a
self-latching device (A.R.S. § 36-1681.B.3.(b).
SECTION 305.3.1 — Utility or service gates is hereby deleted and replaced with
the following:
   Section 305.3.1 — Utility or service gates.
   Gates not intended for pedestrian use, such as utility or service gates,
shall remain locked when not in use.
SECTION 305.3.2 — Double or multiple gates is hereby deleted and replaced with
the following:
   Section 305.3.2 — Double or multiple gates.
   Double gates or multiple gates shall have not fewer than one leaf secured in
place and the adjacent leaf shall be secured with a self-latching device. The
gate and barrier shall not have openings larger than one-half inch (12.7 mm)
within 24 inches (610 mm) of the latch release mechanism (A.R.S. § 36-1681.B.3.
(a). The self- latching device shall comply with the requirements of Section
305.3.3.
SECTION 305.3.3 — Latches is hereby deleted and replaced with the following:
   Section 305.3.3 — Latches.
   All gates shall be self-closing and self- latching with the latch located at
least 54 inches (1372 mm) above the underlying ground or on the pool side of
the gate with a release mechanism at least five inches (127 mm) below the top
of the gate and no opening greater than one-half inch (12.7 mm) within 24
inches (610mm) of the release mechanism (A.R.S. § 36-1681.B.3.(a).
SECTION 305.4 — Structure wall as a barrier is hereby deleted and replaced with
the following:
   Section 305.4 — Structure wall as a barrier.
   Where a wall of a dwelling or structure serves as part of the barrier and
where doors or windows provide direct access to the pool or spa through that
wall, one of the following shall be required:
      1.   Operable windows having a sill height of less than 48 inches (1219
mm) above the indoor finished floor and doors shall have an alarm that produces
an audible warning when the window, door or their screens are opened. The alarm
shall be listed and labeled as a water hazard entrance alarm in accordance with
UL 2017. In dwellings or structures not required to be Accessible units, Type A
units or Type B units, the operable parts of the alarm deactivation switches
shall be located 54 inches (1372 mm) or more above the finished floor. In
dwellings or structures required to be Accessible units, Type A units or Type B
units, the operable parts of the alarm deactivation switches shall be located
not greater than 54 inches (1372 mm) and not less than 48 inches (1219 mm)
above the finished floor.
      2.   A safety cover that is listed and labeled in accordance with ASTM
F1346 is installed for the pools and spas.
      3.   An approved means of protection, such as self-closing doors with
self- latching devices, is provided. Such means of protection shall provide a
degree of protection that is not less than the protection afforded by Item 1 or
2.
      4.   All ground level doors or other doors with direct access to the
swimming pool or other contained body of water shall be equipped with a self-
latching device which meets the requirements of 305.3.3 amended. Emergency
escape or rescue windows from sleeping rooms with access to the swimming pool
or other contained body of water shall be equipped with a latching device not
less than 54 inches (1372 mm) above the floor. All other openable dwelling unit
or guest room windows with similar access shall be equipped with a screwed in
place wire mesh screen, or a keyed lock that prevents opening the window more
than four inches (102 mm), or a latching device located not less than 54 inches
(1372 mm) above the floor (A.R.S. § 36-1681.C.3).
SECTION 305.5 — On-ground residential pool structure as a barrier is hereby
deleted and replaced with the following:
   Section 305.5 — On-ground residential pool structure as a barrier.
   An on-ground residential pool wall structure or a barrier mounted on top of
an on- ground residential pool wall structure shall serve as a barrier where
all of the following conditions are present:
      1.   Where only the pool wall serves as the barrier, the bottom of the
wall is on grade, the top of the wall is not less than 48 inches (1219 mm)
above grade for the entire perimeter of the pool, the wall complies with the
requirements of Section 305.2 and the pool manufacturer allows the wall to
serve as a barrier.
      2.   Where a barrier is mounted on top of the pool wall, the top of the
barrier is not less than 48 inches (1219 mm) above grade for the entire
perimeter of the pool, and the wall and the barrier on top of the wall comply
with the requirements of Section 305.2.
      3.   Any access ladder or steps shall be removable without tools and
secured in an inaccessible position with a latching device not less than 54
inches (1372 mm) above the ground when the pool is not in use (A.R.S. § 36-
1681.C.4.
      4.   Openings created by the securing, locking or removal of ladders and
steps do not allow the passage of a four-inch (102 mm) diameter sphere.
      5.   Barriers that are mounted on top of on-ground residential pool walls
are installed in accordance with the pool manufacturer's instructions.
SECTION 305.6 — Natural barriers is hereby deleted and replaced with the
following:
   Section 305.6 — Natural barriers.
   In the case where the pool or spa area abuts the edge of a lake or other
natural body of water, public access is not permitted or allowed along the
shoreline, and required barriers extend to and beyond the water's edge not less
than 18 inches (457 mm), a barrier is not required between the natural body of
water shoreline and the pool or spa.
SECTION 305.7 — Natural topography is hereby deleted and replaced with the
following:
   Section 305.7 — Natural topography.
   Natural topography that prevents direct access to the pool or spa area shall
include but not be limited to mountains and natural rock formations. A natural
barrier approved by the governing body shall be acceptable provided that the
degree of protection is not less than the protection afforded by the
requirements of Sections 305.2 through 305.
      (2)   Findings and declaration. The Town of Dewey-Humboldt of Yavapai
County, Arizona specifically and expressly finds and declares that the nature
and uniqueness of the climate, terrain, and location does necessitate and
demand specific amendments to the International Swimming Pool and Spa Code,
2012 Edition, which are stated in this ordinance.
(Ord. 21-159, passed 4-20-2021)
§ 150.11 ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. There is hereby adopted by reference, that certain document
known as the International Energy Conservation Code, 2006 Edition, as published
by the International Code Council. Said document is hereby amended and adopted
as the International Energy Conservation Code to regulate the design and
construction of buildings for the effective use of energy and all such
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the International
Energy Conservation Code, 2006 Edition, are hereby referred to, adopted and
made part hereof, as set forth herein, excepting such portions as are
hereinafter deleted, modified, or amended.
   (B)   (1)   Amendments.
   CHAPTER 1 ADMINISTRATION
SECTION 101 — SCOPE AND GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
SECTION 101.1 — Title is amended by the insertion of "Dewey-Humboldt."
SECTION 101.4 — Applicability
SECTION 101.4.3 — Additions, alterations, renovations or repairs is hereby
amended by revision of the first paragraph to read as follows:
   101.4.3 — Additions, alterations, renovations or repairs. Addition,
alteration, renovation or repairs to any legal existing building or its
building system or portion thereof need not to conform to the provisions of
this code as they relate to new construction provided the energy use is not
increased. Additions, alterations, renovations, or repairs to any legal
existing building shall not create an unsafe or hazardous condition or overload
existing building systems.
SECTION 101.6 — Administration is hereby added as a new section to read as
follows:
   101.6 — Administration. The provisions for the issuance of permits and
collection of fees therefore; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of this code along with procedures for
enforcement thereof is hereby referred to as the "Dewey- Humboldt
ADMINISTRATIVE BUILDING CODE, ORDINANCE 21-159"as adopted by Dewey-Humboldt and
shall be considered part hereof as set forth herein, excepting such portions as
are hereinafter deleted, modified and amended.
   CHAPTER 2 DEFINITIONS
SECTION 201 — GENERAL
SECTION 201.3 — Terms defined in other codes are hereby amended as follows:
Where terms are not defined in this code, such terms shall have the meanings
ascribed in other code publications of the International Residential Code and
the most recent Dewey-Humboldt Administrative Building Code. In the event there
is a conflict between the aforementioned codes, the Dewey-Humboldt
Administrative Building Code is superior.
SECTION 201.4 — Terms not defined is deleted in its entirety and amended to
read as follows:
   201.4 — Terms not defined. Where terms are not defined through the methods
authorized by this Chapter, such terms shall have ordinarily accepted meanings
such as the context implies. Webster's Third New International Dictionary of
the English Language, Unabridged, shall be considered as providing ordinarily
accepted meanings.
SECTION 202 — GENERAL DEFINITIONS is hereby amended by revision of the
following terms:
   BUILDING, LEGAL EXISTING. Any residential building as defined in this
section, erected prior to the adoption of this code, or one which a legal
building permit has been issued.
   CODE OFFICIAL. Is the BUILDING OFFICIAL as defined in Section 102.13 of the
"Dewey-Humboldt Administrative Building Code".
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. For this code, includes detached one-and two-family
dwellings and multiple single-family dwellings (townhouses) as well as Group R-
2, R-3 and R-4 buildings three stories or less in height above grade plan.
      (2)   Findings and declaration. The Town of Dewey-Humboldt of Yavapai
County, Arizona specifically and expressly finds and declares that the nature
and uniqueness of the climate, terrain, and location does necessitate and
demand specific amendments to Dewey-Humboldt Ordinance 21-159 — The
International Energy Conservation Code 2006 Edition.
(Ord. 21-159, passed 4-20-2021)
§ 150.12 ARIZONANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT.
   That certain document, three copies each of which are on file in the office
of the Town Clerk being marked and designated as the "Arizonans with
Disabilities Act" (A.R.S. Title 41, Chapter 9, Article 8), and the "Arizonans
with Disabilities Act implementing rules" (Arizona Administrative Code, Title
10, Chapter 3, Article 4), which incorporates the Federal "2010 ADA standards
for accessible design", is hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof
as though fully set forth in this section, as the Arizonans with Disabilities
Act of the town, and shall apply to new construction and alterations and are
not required in buildings or portions of existing buildings that do not meet
the standards and specifications.
(Ord. 16-123, passed 1-19-2016)
APPENDIX A: VALUATION AND FEE SCHEDULES
   (A)   The following table is the fee schedule for town building permits and
administration, which town staff must collect unless otherwise directed in this
section.
 
Building Permits and Administration          Fee
Building permit (includes all                Per Yavapai County Schedule (pass-
permits required by town code       Per app. through fees)
chapters 150 and 151)
Building permit administration      Per app. 42% of building permit fee
Single family residential building
plan review (includes all plan               Per Yavapai County Schedule (pass-
reviews required by town code       Per app. through fees)
chapters 150 and 151 for single
family residential)
All other building plan review
(includes all other plan reviews    Per app. Actual cost of professional
required by town code chapters 150           services and materials
and 151)
Building plan review administration Per app. 42%of plan review fee
 
   (B)   Reduced fees.
      (1)   The above fees shall be waived when the applicant is the Town of
Dewey-Humboldt, the County of Yavapai, the State of Arizona, or the United
States Government, or their dependents, agencies and divisions. This exception
shall not apply to a non-governmental lessee of governmentally-owned land.
Other governmental discounts may be negotiated through intergovernmental
agreements.
      (2)   Fees may be waived by the Town Council, the Town Hearing Officer,
or Board of Adjustment to avoid undue hardship.
   (C)   The Town Manager is responsible to interpret and apply the foregoing
fees in light of the Report for User Fee Study dated March 2010 (on file with
the Town Clerk). A fee payer may appeal the Town Manager’s decision to the Town
Hearing Officer, but must do so within 30 days of the Town Manager’s written
decision.
(Ord. 07-31, passed 4-17-2007; Am. Ord. 10-68, passed 4-20-2010)
CHAPTER 151: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
   
151.01   Floodplain Manager
   
151.02   Basis for establishing special flood hazard areas
   
151.03   County ordinance adopted
   
151.04   Interference with flow of waters
 
   
15
1.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 FLOODPLAIN MANAGER.
   The Building Official is designated as the Floodplain Manager for the town
and will serve as the community point of contact on National Flood Insurance
Program issues for county, state and federal officials.
(Ord. 06-27, passed 7-18-2006)
§ 151.02 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   Those public records entitled “Flood Insurance Study for Yavapai County,
Arizona, and Incorporated Areas dated June 6, 2001" and “Flood Insurance Rate
Maps dated June 6, 2001" and all subsequent amendments and/or revisions, two
copies of which shall be kept on file in the office of the Town Clerk, are
hereby adopted by reference, as the basis for establishing the special flood
hazard areas for floodplain management in the town. The special flood hazard
areas documented in the Flood Insurance Study and Flood Insurance Rate Maps are
the minimum area of applicability of the floodplain management regulations and
may be supplemented by studies for other areas as allowed in the regulations.
(Ord. 06-27, passed 7-18-2006)
§ 151.03 COUNTY ORDINANCE ADOPTED.
   That public record entitled “Flood Damage Prevention” Ordinance for Yavapai
County, dated March 19, 2001 and all subsequent amendments and/or revisions,
three copies of which shall be kept on file in the office of the Town Clerk, is
hereby adopted as the legal basis for implementing floodplain management in
this community.
(Ord. 06-27, passed 7-18-2006)
§ 151.04 INTERFERENCE WITH FLOW OF WATERS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a person to engage in any development or to divert,
retard or obstruct the flow of waters in a watercourse if it creates a hazard
to life or property without securing the written authorization required by
A.R.S. § 48-3613.
   (B)   Where the watercourse is a delineated floodplain, it is unlawful to
engage in any development affecting the flow of waters without securing written
authorization required by A.R.S. § 48-3613.
(Ord. 06-27, passed 7-18-2006) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be punished by a fine of not
to exceed $2,500 or by imprisonment for a period not to exceed six months, or
by both the fine and imprisonment. Each day that a violation continues shall be
a separate offense punishable as hereinabove described.
(Ord. 06-27, passed 7-18-2006)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
152.01   Scope of land splits and subdivision regulations
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Classification of land splits and subdivisions
   
152.04   Pre-application conference
   
152.05   Land splits procedure
   
152.06   Sketch plan procedure and requirements
   
152.07   Preliminary plat procedures and requirements
   
152.08   Final plat procedures and requirements
   
152.09   Street design and subdivision standards
   
152.10   Assurances, guarantees, improvements, inspections and releases
   
152.11   Amendments, revisions, replat and additional authorities
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 SCOPE OF LAND SPLITS AND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Applicability. No plat of a subdivision (see definition) or deed
creating a new parcel shall be approved by the Department, Planning Commission
or Town Council unless it conforms to the provisions of this chapter and the
Zoning Ordinance.
   (B)   Purpose.
      (1)   To promote the health, safety and general welfare of the residents
of the town.
      (2)   To ensure conformance of land subdivision plans with the public
improvement plans of the town, and coordination with those of the county,
region and state.
      (3)   To encourage well-planned subdivisions by establishing adequate
standards for design and improvements.
      (4)   To improve land survey monuments and records by establishing
standards for survey and plots.
      (5)   To secure equitable handling of all subdivision plans by providing
uniform procedures and standards.
      (6)   To preserve natural vegetation and cover, and promote the natural
beauty of the town.
      (7)   To prevent erosion, sedimentation or other pollution of surface or
subsurface water.
      (8)   To prevent flood damage to persons and properties.
      (9)   To restrict building in areas poorly suited for building or
construction.
      (10)   To plan for adequate space for future development of schools and
parks to serve the population where appropriate.
      (11)   To assure the planning for the provision of an adequate and safe
source of water and means of sewage disposal.
(Ord. 09-51, passed 4-21-2009)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADEQ. The Arizona Department of Environmental Quality, a state agency that
administers programs ensuring that qualities of air and water meet healthful,
regulatory standards.
   ADWR. Arizona Department of Water Resources, a state agency that administers
use and availability of water resources including those within an Active
Management Area (AMA) for compliance with the Groundwater Management Code.
   COMMISSION. The Town of Dewey-Humboldt Planning and Zoning Advisory
Commission.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council of the town.
   DESIGN. Street alignment, grades and widths; alignment and widths of
easements and rights-of-way for ingress, egress and drainage, and where
appropriate for water systems and sanitary sewers; and the arrangement and
orientation of lots.
   DEPARTMENT. The Community Development Department which is designated to
receive and review all land use permit applications, facilitate planning issues
and to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
   EASEMENT. A right held by one property owner to make use of the land of
another for a limited purpose (e.g. an access easement for ingress and egress).
   IMPROVEMENT. Required installations, pursuant to this chapter and other
subdivision regulations, including grading, sewer and water utilities, streets,
easements, traffic control devices as a condition to the approval and
acceptance of the final plat thereof.
   LAND SPLIT.  The division of improved or unimproved land whose area is two
and one-half acres  or less into two or three tracts or parcels of land for the
purpose of sale or lease where no new street is involved.
   MAJOR SUBDIVISION. See the definition of SUBDIVISION.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. The division of improved or unimproved land into two or
three tracts or parcels of land and where a new street is involved, for the
purpose of sale or lease; or, a "subdivision", as defined in this section,
which contains ten or less lots, tracts or parcels.
   PLAT.  A map of a subdivision:
      (1)   PRELIMINARY PLAT. A preliminary map, including supporting data,
indicating a proposed subdivision design prepared in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and those of any local applicable ordinance.
      (2)   FINAL PLAT.  A map of all or part of a subdivision essentially
conforming to an approved preliminary plat, prepared in accordance with the
provision of this chapter, those of any local applicable ordinance and state
statute.
   RECORDED PLAT. A final plat bearing all of the certificates of approval
required by this chapter, any local applicable ordinance and state statute.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any public or private right-of-way and includes any area
required for public use pursuant to any general or specific plan as adopted by
the town.
   SKETCH PLAN. An informal plan indicating relevant existing features of a
tract of land and its surroundings and the general layout of the proposed
development of the property.
   STREET. Any existing or proposed passageway that affords a principal means
of vehicular access to abutting property including street, avenue, boulevard,
road, lane, walk, alley, parkway, place, bridge, highway, freeway, expressway,
viaduct or easement for public or private vehicular access; or a street shown
in a plat heretofore approved pursuant to law; or a street in a plat duly filed
and recorded in the county recorder's office. Streets include common driveways
and all land within the street right-of-way whether improved or unimproved, and
include such improvements as pavement, shoulders, curbs, gutters, bikeways,
pedestrian pathways, sidewalks, parking space, bridges and viaducts.
   SUBDIVIDER.  A person, firm, corporation, partnership, association,
syndicate, trust or other legal entity that files application and initiates
proceedings for the subdivision of land in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter, any local applicable ordinance and state statute, except that an
individual serving as agent for such legal entity is not a subdivider.
   SUBDIVISION. Improved or unimproved land or lands divided for the purpose of
financing, sale or lease, whether immediate or future, into four or more lots,
tracts or parcels of land, or, if a new street is involved, any such property
which is divided into two or more lots, tracts or parcels of land, or, any such
property, the boundaries of which have been fixed by a recorded plat, which is
divided into more than two parts.
   SUBDIVISION. Also includes any condominium, cooperative, community
apartment, townhouse or similar project containing four or more parcels, in
which an undivided interest in the land is coupled with the right of exclusive
occupancy of any unit located thereon, but plats of such projects need not show
the buildings or the manner in which the buildings or airspace above the
property shown on the plat are to be divided. SUBDIVISION does not include the
following:
      (1)   The sale or exchange of parcels of land to or between adjoining
property owners if such sale or exchange does not create additional lots.
      (2)   The partitioning of land in accordance with other statutes
regulating the partitioning of land held in common ownership.
      (3)   The leasing of apartments, offices, stores or similar space within
a building or trailer park, nor to mineral, oil or gas leases.
   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS. This chapter's regulating of the design and
improvement of subdivisions enacted under the provisions of this chapter or any
other regulations for the design and improvement of infrastructure.
(Ord. 09-51, passed 4-21-2009; Am. Ord. 15-113, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 152.03 CLASSIFICATION OF LAND SPLITS AND SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Land split.
      (1)   Land split creating not more than three parcels and where no new
street is involved.
      (2)   Requirements and processing. Proposed land splits shall require a
pre-application conference (§
152.04), documentation of land division history, review of preliminary
documents, final application submittal and all documents and filing fees
required in accordance with §
152.05.
   (B)   Minor subdivision.
      (1)   A subdivision containing ten or less lots and/or condominium
units).
      (2)   Requirements and processing. Proposed minor subdivisions shall
require pre-application conference (§
152.04), sketch plan (§
152.06) and final plat filing (§
152.08), processing, and approval. The preliminary plat stage shall not be
required.
         (a)   All applicable materials and information required to be
submitted in the sketch plan (§
152.06) shall be submitted along with applicable filing fees; in addition,
other required materials and information shall be submitted at the time of the
final plat (§ 152.08) stage.
         (b)   The final plat (§
152.08) submittal shall incorporate staff review comments provided during the
sketch plan staff conference. The Planning Commission shall review the final
plat and prepare a recommendation to the Town Council.
   (C)   Major subdivision.
      (1)   A subdivision containing more then ten lots and/or condominium
units.
      (2)   Requirements and processing. Proposed major subdivisions shall
require pre-application conference (§
152.04), sketch plan (§
152.06), preliminary plat (§
152.07) and final plat filing (§
152.08), processing, and approvals.
         (a)   All applicable materials and information required to be
submitted in the sketch plan (§
152.06) shall be submitted along with applicable filing fees.
         (b)   All applicable materials and information required to be
submitted in the preliminary plat (§
152.07) shall be submitted along with applicable filing fees, and shall
incorporate staff review comments provided during the sketch plan staff
conference. The Planning Commission shall review the preliminary plat and
prepare a recommendation to the Town Council.
         (c)   The final plat (§
152.08) submittal shall substantially conform to the approved preliminary plat
and incorporate any Council comments and stipulations provided during the
approval of the preliminary plat. The Planning Commission shall review the
final plat and prepare a recommendation to the Town Council.
         (d)   The chart and notes below summarize the procedures and
requirements of the various types of land splits, divisions and subdivisions.
Procedural steps are described fully in the following sections.
 
Requirements Pre- Application Plan and Record Sketch Water       Preliminary Plat Final Plat
for the town App  and fee     Division of     Plan - Certificate Plan’g Council Plan’g Council
             Mtg              history  survey staff              Comm             Comm
Land Split -
area <2.5
acres into 3 X    X           X        X                                               
or less
parcels
*ADWR Minor
Subdivision
<6 lots all  X    X                         X                                X        X
with less
than 36
acres each
Major
Subdivision
More than 10
lots all     X    X                         X      X           X        X       X        X
with less
than 36
acres each
Revision of
plat.
Redivision
for more     X    X                               X           X        X       X        X
lots than
original
plat
**
Unsubdivided
lands .
parcels,                                                                           
each >36
acres and
<160 acres
 
*   Arizona Department of Water Resources (ADWR) regulates subdivisions defined
in A.R.S. § 32-2101 as a subdivision proposed for division into six or more
lots or parcels.
   Note: all subdividers or developers of proposed Major or Minor Subdivisions
with more than five lots or parcels, are required to obtain a certificate of
assured water supply, designation of adequate water or other designation from
the director of ADWR in compliance with A.R.S. Title 45 regulations, prior to
presenting a plat for approval by the town.
**   “Unsubdivided Lands” refers to land divided for the purpose of sale or
lease into six or more parcels, each containing 36 acres or more, but less than
160 acres each, as per A.R.S. § 32-2101.
(Ord. 09-51, passed 4-21-2009)
§ 152.04 PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE.
   (A)   A pre-application meeting with Community Development Department staff
is required as part of any application submittal for a land split or
subdivision. This meeting is intended to review the initial proposal prior to
preparation of final applications or sketch plans while the proposed land split
or subdivision is still in conceptual form. The meeting is also intended to
provide the appropriate information to an applicant regarding, but not limited
to, conformance with zoning requirements, subdivision classification and
regulations, the purpose of these regulations and the town's general plan or
specific area plans, considerations for access, floodplains and drainage areas,
water and septic systems. During the meeting, staff will also provide advice
and assistance regarding filing procedures, improvements required, and
subdivision and street design considerations.
   (B)   The applicant should have conceptual-type drawings and documents
showing the proposed land split, proposed access, and as applicable, the lot/
street layout, topography, and drainage issues. The purpose of the pre-
application meeting is to provide preliminary identification of potential
issues. Concerns set forth in this pre-application meeting shall be addressed
in the plat or final application submittal. The pre-application conference is
not intended as a complete analysis. Attendance of the applicant's engineer
and/or development team is strongly encouraged but not required. The applicant
is required to contact a staff member to set up an appointment.
(Ord. 09-51, passed 4-21-2009)
§ 152.05 LAND SPLITS PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Preliminary processing.
      (1)   Proposed land splits shall require a pre-application conference
(see §
152.04), at which the property owner and department shall discuss the proposal,
regulations and options for further consideration of proceeding with a land
split application described below.
      (2)   Application, together with filing fees, and the following documents
shall be filed by the applicant.
         (a)   Legal description and assessors parcel number.
         (b)   A land split drawing showing the proposed land split, fully
dimensioned and prepared at a scale which maintains legibility, showing the
following information:
            1.   The boundaries of the original parcel prior to the land split.
            2.   Proposed parcels, with parcel lines fully dimensioned.
            3.   The rights-of-way adjacent to or within the property,
including streets and recorded easements and proposed easements to be recorded
for ingress/egress and utilities.
            4.   The locations and dimensions of any existing structures with
setbacks of existing buildings and structures from existing and proposed
property lines.
            5.   The placement of existing wells and septic systems.
         (c)   Documentation of the land division history of the parcel.
Documentation may consist of assessor’s maps and records, deeds, title history
search, or any other information that would credibly show the number of land
divisions that have occurred during the five-year period preceding the
application.
         (d)   If applicable, a copy of any easement and/or required agreement,
or other legal document which permits shared facilities.
   (B)   Review of preliminary documents.  The documents submitted noted above
in preliminary processing shall be reviewed by the department for the
following, which could result in the denial of the land split:
      (1)   The parcels resulting from the split or division not conforming to
size, width/depth requirements and other zoning regulations;
      (2)   A parcel or adjacent property becoming landlocked, without legal
access; and/or
      (3)   The division of land, based on the documentation of its land
division history, would result in a subdivision as defined in §
153.005 (i.e. four or more parcels)
   (C)   Final application submittal. Upon satisfactory review and
determination by the Department and prior to final approval and recording, the
property owner shall submit:
      (1)   A completed application, filing and recording fees; and
      (2)   A record of survey of the proposed land split produced by a
registered land surveyor (RLS) licensed in the State of Arizona; the record of
survey shall be sealed and signed by the RLS and contain the boundaries of the
original parcel prior to the land split, the proposed parcels with parcel lines
fully dimensioned, and the rights-of-way adjacent to or within the property,
including streets and recorded easements and proposed easements to be recorded
for ingress/egress and utilities;
      (3)   The record of survey shall contain the recording data (book and
page numbers) of the access easements for ingress and egress, existing or
proposed for creation of the land split; such easements shall meet the
standards specified in §
152.09 Subdivision and Street Design Standards.
(Ord. 09-51, passed 4-21-2009; Am. Ord. 15-113, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 152.06 SKETCH PLAN PROCEDURE AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose and process.
      (1)   The purpose of the sketch plan is to determine the feasibility of
the proposed development and the capacity of the land to support such
development.
      (2)   To avoid unnecessary and costly revisions, the subdivider shall as
specified by these regulations submit a sketch plan of the proposed development
after a pre-application meeting with Community Development Department staff.
The sketch plan shall be circulated to and reviewed by town and related
reviewing agencies to discover development opportunities or apparent
constraints prior to accepting a subdivision plat submittal.
      (3)   A sketch plan submittal is a precursor to any plat submittal in
order to consider the following circumstances:
         (a)   Development adjoins different existing zoning classification(s).
         (b)   Project development is to occur in multiple phases.
         (c)   Difficult development constraints exist such as:
            1.   Topography.
            2.   Limited or difficult access.
            3.   Limited existing or available utilities.
            4.   Within FEMA Floodplain or encumbered by numerous washes or
arroyos exhibiting unique drainage constraints.
            5.   Water availability and sewerage disposal opportunities are
limited or constrained
         (d)   The development is part of a Planned Area Developments (PAD).
   (B)   Sketch plan contents.
      (1)   Vicinity map.
      (2)   Name of development and “sketch plan.”
      (3)   Location by section, township and range.
      (4)   Reference by approximate dimension and bearing to section corners
and quarter-section corners.
      (5)   Boundaries of development clearly identified and dimensioned.
      (6)   North arrow.
      (7)   Scales (both graphic and equivalent inch to feet) using standard
engineering intervals. Not to exceed one inch feet 200 feet, prefer one inch
equals 100 feet. Sheet size no smaller than 24 inches x 36 inches; no larger
than 42 inches x 42 inches.
      (8)   Date of preparation plus date of any amendments since original
submittal.
      (9)   Names, addresses, phone numbers and notation of relationship to
development for landowners, subdivider/development agents, engineers,
surveyors, land planners, landscape architects, architects, hydrologists or
others responsible for design (include registration numbers).
      (10)   Topography by contours relating to U.S.G.S. survey datum including
benchmark used. Base information must be sufficient in order to review.
Topography shall be depicted 300 feet beyond project boundary.
      (11)   Proposed land uses and densities by area as well as ownership
patterns, land uses and zoning within surrounding 300 feet.
      (12)   Proposed vehicular, bicycle, pedestrian and equestrian traffic
circulation plan (access, continuity, secondary emergency access, and the like)
including:
         (a)   Overall area showing existing and proposed roads and their
classification (arterial, collector, residential street{'}'} within 300 feet of
project boundaries. A greater distance where needed to depict relationship to
development may be necessary and may be shown on an additional map with a scale
not to exceed one inch equals 2,000 feet.
         (b)   Identify legal primary and secondary access opportunities, as
well as existing or proposed street right-of-way widths.
         (c)   In narrative form, identify general traffic Impacts to adjacent
property and existing roads, as well as high traffic generation points on site.
         (d)   Identify existing or proposed trail networks and open space
connections affected by or intended to be implemented as part of future
subdivision design. (NOTE: The plan may be graphic and/or narrative.)
      (13)   Drainage concept plan. Illustrate graphically and discuss in
narrative form the proposed methods of handling storm drainage and floodplains
that affect property:
         (a)   Depict general pre- and post- development drainage patterns and
flow direction(s).
         (b)   Identify potential detention facilities, where necessary.
      (14)   Identify in chart or note form on the sketch plan the following:
         (a)   Total acreage, acreage for each use and each phase.
         (b)   Number units/lots for each type of use and phase.
         (c)   Average area per lot/unit proposed.
         (d)   Percent open space, if any, exclusive of rights-of-way,
roadways, building envelopes, and parking areas.
         (e)   Water source (if new source indicate potential well field and
storage tank).
         (f)   Method of refuse removal.
         (g)   Sewer service provider and type, if available.
         (h)   Fire District.
         (i)   Proposed utilities available and provider.
         (j)   Identify unique site conditions, i.e., rock outcroppings, major
drainage features, and the like.
      (15)   Requested variances and waivers or known deviations from design
standards (§
152.09); for minor subdivisions often or fewer lots, waivers may be requested,
except for improved dust-controlled access and minimum drainage improvements.
(NOTE: Unique site conditions or apparent development constraints may
necessitate submittal of additional information as required.)
      (16)   Additional requirements.
         (a)   Appropriate number of presentation copies as determined by the
department and one copy in digital form of the sketch plan shall be submitted
to the department.
         (b)   If requested by the department, a map (at a minimum scale of one
inch: ten feet for that portion of the lot within 30 feet of the building or
structure) identifying the following, as applicable:
            1.   All trees over two inches outside bark diameter at four and
one-half feet above the ground on the uphill side of the tree, indicating
canopy size and species, and indicating those trees to be removed;
            2.   All natural topographic features such as watercourses, rock
outcrops, native vegetation and trees;
            3.   A map identifying areas of existing manmade scarring and, if
proposed, a restoration program.
         (c)   A Phase I drainage report in accordance with the requirements of
the town drainage criteria shall be submitted as set forth herein in
conjunction with a sketch plan. The purpose of a Phase I Drainage Report is to
review at a conceptual level the feasibility and design characteristics of the
proposed subdivision. The drainage study shall identify off-site contributing
drainage areas on a seven and one-half feet U.S.G.S. Quad Map; analyze existing
hydrology conditions and approximate developed hydrologic conditions to make
decisions relative to detention; illustrate location of proposed drainage
facilities to convey run-off through the site (no sizing of facilities needed);
and provide text generally describing the drainage aspects of the site, methods
for handling run-off, hydroiogical methods, and floodplains that affect the
property.
         (d)   Citizen participation. Every applicant who is proposing a
subdivision of 60 acres (or greater) or 40 lots (or more) shall include a
citizen participation plan. The plan will not be required to commence until 30
days before a legally-required public hearing, if any.
         (e)   Title report. A preliminary title report or a policy of title
insurance issued by a title insurance company within the preceding 30 working
days to the owner of the land, covering the land within the subdivision and
showing all record owners, liens, and encumbrances. The preliminary title
report shall contain Schedule "B" indicating the status of legal access to the
proposed subdivision.
   (C)   Approval or denial of sketch plans submitted.
      (1)   The sketch plan shall be evaluated and discussed in a formal
meeting between the applicant(s), reviewing agency representatives and
department staff. Upon receipt of reviewing agency comments, the department
shall compile agency comments and respond to the applicant or agent as the
proposed project relates to the following:
         (a)   General plan or specific area plan(s).
         (b)   Suitability of the site for development, proposed/existing and
potential development opportunities and constraints.
         (c)   The improvements, design and dedication required by town
improvement standards.
         (d)   Zoning requirements.
         (e)   Drainage requirements.
      (2)   The department shall determine whether or not the sketch plan meets
the purposes of these regulations and related town ordinances and design
specifications and shall, where deemed necessary, make specific recommendations
to be incorporated by the applicant into a revised sketch plan or appropriate
subdivision plat submittal. No response from reviewing agencies within the
prescribed review period shall be construed as having no objection to the
continued processing of the application.
      (3)   At the discretion of the department and/or applicant, the sketch
plan may be presented to the Planning Commission to clarify policies or to
provide additional guidance. Such review shall be held at a regularly scheduled
Commission meeting.
      (4)   If the department determines that the sketch plan submittal is not
consistent with the general plan or specific area plan(s) and/or determines
that the proposed development does not meet town improvement/design
specifications, the department may deny the sketch plan application or request
modifications to be incorporated into a revised sketch plan prior to
authorizing an appropriate subdivision plat submittal.
   (D)   Appeal.
      (1)   If the project developer objects to a decision by the department to
deny a sketch plan or any administrative review process or recommended
modification to same, the decision may be appealed to the Planning Commission.
Upon receipt of a written statement of objection, the matter shall be placed on
the agenda for the next available Planning Commission meeting.
      (2)   If the developer objects to the recommendations, of the Planning
Commission, the Commission's recommendation may be appealed to the Council.
(Ord. 09-51, passed 4-21-2009)
§ 152.07 PRELIMINARY PLAT PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS. 
   (A)   Purpose and process.
      (1)   A preliminary plat is a major step in the subdivision review
process. The purpose of the preliminary plat is to submit enough information to
answer the question “Should this use, designed in this manner, be constructed
on this site?” prior to complete engineering drawings and studies being
prepared. Approval of a preliminary plat constitutes authorization to proceed
with preparation of the final plat, engineering plans and specifications for
public improvements, but does not assure approval or acceptance.
      (2)   An application and appropriate number of presentation copies as
determined by the department and one copy in digital form of a preliminary
plat, with required materials (§
152.07(B) and (C)) and filing fee shall be filed at the department. Only
complete submittals shall be accepted.
      (3)   Staff shall review the application, distribute copies to reviewing
agencies, obtain comments and schedule a staff conference with the applicant to
review all comments with the applicant and to make any requests for additional
information or materials.
      (4)   The staff shall present the preliminary plat, including general
review comments, to the Planning Commission at a regularly scheduled meeting.
Before taking action on a preliminary plat, the Planning Commission shall
consider all review comments presented by staff, and the applicant. The
preliminary plat and the recommendation of the Planning Commission shall be
considered by the Council at a regularly scheduled meeting.
      (5)   An approval of a preliminary plat by the Council is valid for 12
months from the date of the approval. A 12-month extension may be granted by
the department upon receipt of a letter from the subdivider prior to the
expiration date indicating proper cause.
   (B)   Preliminary plat contents.
      (1)   In addition to the items listed in §
152.06 for sketch plan contents, the following is also required for the
preliminary plat:
         (a)   Topography by contours relating to U.S.G.S. survey datum, or
other datum approved in writing by the Town Engineer, to be shown on the same
map as the proposed subdivision layout. Location and elevation of the benchmark
used should also be shown on the plat. Acceptable contour intervals: grades up
to 5%, two feet; 5% to 15% grades, five feet; grades over 15%, ten feet. Source
and date of topography shall be noted on the Preliminary Plat. Datum basis
shall be noted. Whenever practical, elevations should be based on U.S.G.S. or
N.G.S. datum. At least one permanent benchmark shall be included as part of the
Preliminary Plat. Regular U.S.G.S. topographic maps, enlargements or
similarities of same will not be acceptable as the source of topography.
Topography shall extend at least 300 feet into all adjoining properties. This
requirement may be waived on a case-by-case basis by staff.
         (b)   Drainage related items. Flood hazard and 100-year floodplain
areas, if any, shall be delineated on the preliminary plat and finished floor
elevations for building pads shall be identified for all lots impacted by flood
hazard areas. All lots impacted by flood hazard areas must have an established
restrictive building envelope that is outside the delineated flood hazard area.
         (c)   Location, widths, ownership status and names of all existing
streets and improvements therein; railroads; recorded utility or other
easements or rights-of-way, including any existing facilities therein; public
areas; all existing structures, with an indication of whether or not they are
to remain; and municipal corporation lines within or adjacent to the tract.
Access road to the proposed subdivision shall be described to its intersection
with a public road right-of-way.
         (d)   Name, book and page numbers of any recorded subdivisions within
or having a common boundary with the tract, or notation "unsubdivided" where
appropriate.
         (e)   Location, width and names of proposed streets, alleys, drainage
ways, cross-walks and easements including all connections to adjoining platted
or un-platted tracts. A typical cross-section shall be depicted on the plat
where applicable describing the aforementioned improvements.
         (f)   Lot layout. Including minimum building setback lines related to
all streets; typical lot dimensions (scaled); minimum lot sizes; dimensions of
all corner lots and lots on curvilinear sections of street; each lot numbered
individually and total number of lots shown.
         (g)   Designation of all land to be dedicated or reserved for public
or semi-public use, with use indicated, and designation of existing use of
property immediately surrounding the plat area.
         (h)   If plat includes land for which multi-family, commercial or
industrial use is proposed, such areas shall be clearly designated together
with existing zoning classification, present district boundary lines and status
of any pending zoning change.
         (i)   Sewage disposal. It shall be the responsibility of the
subdivider to furnish the department such evidence as may be required for its
satisfaction as to the design and operation of sanitary sewage facilities
proposed. A statement as to the type of facilities proposed shall appear on the
preliminary plat. Subdivisions Utilizing Individual On-site Wastewater Systems:
Where the proposed sewage disposal system will be by individual on-site
wastewater systems, the results of the testing in accordance with current ADEQ
requirements and rules shall be submitted with the preliminary plat. Where
alternative on-site wastewater systems are proposed, necessary supporting
information shall be provided for review and approval in concert with
preliminary plat evaluation.
         (j)   Water supply. If the project lies within the Prescott Active
Management Area boundaries, the subdivider shall comply with all regulations of
the Arizona Department of Water Resources. It shall also be the responsibility
of the subdivider to furnish the Environmental Unit of Yavapai County such
evidence as that unit may require for its satisfaction as to the facilities for
supplying domestic water. A statement as to the type of facilities proposed
shall appear on the preliminary plat.
         (k)   Solid waste disposal. Subdivider shall indicate distance and
location of refuse disposal area. In addition, method of collection must be
indicated.
         (l)   Engineering plans submitted in support of the preliminary plat
shall be prepared under the direction of and signed and sealed by a Registered
Professional Engineer.
   (C)   Supplementary submittal requirements for preliminary plat.
Supplemental submittals at this stage, such as grading, drainage or road plans,
should be preliminary plans, not construction plans. They are the type of plans
needed to evaluate the sustainability of the preliminary plat and allow the
reviewing agencies to make reasonable decisions. The plans may generally be
prepared using scaled distances and elevations taken from the topographic map
used for the preliminary plat. When possible, they should be at the same scale
as the preliminary plat. All supplemental submittals must be consistent with
each other and the preliminary plat. The following material shall accompany the
submission of all preliminary plats. If this data is not included on the
preliminary plat, then a minimum of two copies are required.
      (1)   A preliminary title report or a policy of title insurance issued by
a title insurance company within the preceding 30 working days to the owner of
the land, covering the land within the subdivision and showing all record
owners, liens, and encumbrances. The preliminary title report shall contain
Schedule "B" indicating the status of legal access to the proposed subdivision.
      (2)   A letter detailing how the application is in compliance with its
zoning classification and with any stipulations of conditional zoning of the
property if applicable.
      (3)   Preliminary draft of proposed deed restrictions or protective
covenants to be incorporated in the final plat submittal, including provisions
for use and maintenance of any commonly owned facilities.
      (4)   A statement regarding availability of utilities and the direction
and distance thereto and preliminary letters of serviceability shall be
submitted in conjunction with the application.
      (5)   A list of the proposed street names.
      (6)   A statement regarding a request and associated justification for
any waiver or variance from construction standards or these regulations such
road design, flood control, and the like, specifying each requested waiver or
variance.
      (7)   Preliminary grading plan. A preliminary grading plan shall be
required when cuts or fills will exceed five feet in height or will extend
outside of the normal street right-of-way. The preliminary grading plan shall
be in sufficient detail to convey the extent of grading activities such that
their impact can be evaluated by the reviewing agencies. The plan shall include
existing and finish grade contours and limits of cut and fill areas. Driveway
and building locations shall be shown when topographic or other constraints
will require specific locations or site grading. A geotechnical report shall
accompany the grading plan to support the slope stability assumptions of the
grading plan, unless permitted by the Town Engineer to be submitted with the
final plat submission.
      (8)   Preliminary road plans. Grades shall be given to the nearest whole
percent grade. A profile sheet coinciding with the roads as shown on the
preliminary plat or separate plan and profile sheets shall be prepared at a
scale sufficient to allow evaluation of the proposed roads. Proposed drainage
structures within the right-of-way shall be shown on the preliminary road
plans. The preliminary grading plan may be shown on the preliminary road plans
if all of the grading will be related directly to the roads. The reviewing
agency's interest in these plans are:
         (a)   Height, stability and slope of cut/fills;
         (b)   Affected drainage patterns;
         (c)   Potential roadway geometric problems;
         (d)   Impacts of the roads on adjacent lots, property and access;
         (e)   Relationship of drainage to roadways;
         (f)   Other items that may be specific to the roads in the specific
subdivision.
      (9)   Preliminary utility plans. A preliminary utility plan shall be
prepared to illustrate the proposed location of utilities and verify that the
necessary easements and rights-of-way are proposed on the preliminary plat. It
is recognized that final utility locations are decided by the individual
utilities, but the objective of the preliminary utility plan shall be to
encourage cooperation in planning by the various utilities.
      (10)   Preliminary drainage plans. The preliminary drainage plan shall be
part of a Phase II Drainage Report in accordance with the requirements of the
Flood Control District and the Yavapai County Drainage Criteria Manual. The
plan may include a drainage report, floodplain delineation and floodplain study
depending on the size of the project and its location topographically as well
as geographically.
      (11)   Traffic impact analysis. Generally the following criteria are
considered when determining if a traffic impact study is warranted:
         (a)   Significant changes in land uses are proposed or higher density
zoning is sought.
         (b)   Arterial highway access is requested or the existing location of
access to the property is changed.
         (c)   The proposed increased activity or intensity of development will
significantly impact vehicular or pedestrian traffic on major roads.
         (d)   A total of 100 or more vehicular trips during an a.m. or p.m.
peak hour will be generated by the proposed development.
         (e)   In instances where the interior subdivision streets do not
intersect or adjoin a state or county highway the level of detail for the
traffic study and its contents shall be at the discretion of the Town Engineer.
      (12)   Additional information as may be necessary to assure that the
proposed preliminary plat conforms to the provisions of these regulations.
(Ord. 09-51, passed 4-21-2009)
§ 152.08 FINAL PLAT PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose and process.
      (1)   The final plat is the last major step in the subdivision review
process. The purpose of the final plat is to provide enough detailed
information to show that the development can be designed and constructed to
town standards on the project site. To accomplish this, complete engineering
drawings and studies must be prepared and submitted for review and approval.
Approval of a final plat constitutes authorization to proceed with preparation
of the financial assurances and recording documents necessary for construction
of all public improvements. Approval of a final plat, engineering plans,
financial assurances and recordation does not assure acceptance of public
improvements by the town. Acceptance of public streets is only provided upon
completion of construction to town standards and approval by the Town Engineer.
      (2)   An application and appropriate number of presentation copies as
determined by the department and one copy in digital form of a final plat, with
required materials (see §
152.08 (B) and (C)) and filing fee shall be filed at the department. Only
complete submittals shall be accepted.
      (3)   Staff shall review the application, distribute copies to reviewing
agencies, obtain comments and schedule a staff conference with the applicant to
review all comments with the applicant and to make any requests for additional
information or materials.
      (4)   Engineering drawings and studies shall be submitted with the final
plat and reviewed by the Town Engineer and other regulatory agencies for
compliance with standards.
      (5)   The final plat shall be reviewed for conformance with the approved
preliminary plat, except that a final plat may constitute only a portion of the
land area approved within the preliminary plat.
      (6)   A final plat application may be submitted which has been modified
to reflect improvements in design or changes which have occurred since the time
of the preliminary plat approval. These changes may require submittal of
material(s) necessary to adequately review that change.
      (7)   If all requirements of approval of the preliminary plat have been
met in the final plat submittal and the engineering drawings and studies have
been approved and if no adverse comments are received from review departments/
agencies, the staff shall schedule the final plat for consideration at the next
regularly scheduled meeting of the Council.
      (8)   An approval of a final plat by the Council is valid for 24 months
from the date of the approval during which time financial assurances must be
submitted and approved by the town for public improvements. The final plat
shall be recorded upon acceptance of financial assurances (§
152.10). A 24-month extension may be granted by the department upon receipt of
a letter from the subdivider prior to the expiration date indicating proper
cause.
   (B)   Final plat contents. The final plat shall conform to all the following
provisions of this section and be prepared to reasonable accuracy standards,
consistent with acceptable professional standards, signed and sealed by a land
surveyor registered in the state.
      (1)   The final plat shall be submitted on a transparent reproducible
polyester film, such as Mylar, and shall be the original map legibly drawn on a
sheet or sheets measuring 24 inches x 36 inches, with a left margin of two
inches and be drawn to an accurate scale not to exceed one inch equals 200
feet. A scale of one inch equals 100 feet is preferred. The final plat shall
include dedications, affidavits, certificates and acknowledgments. All stamped
or written matter, including signatures, shall be made with opaque ink so that
legible blue line prints may be obtained there from. The plat will need to be
of a scale to ensure the size of letters will be legible when microfilmed,
converted digitally or scanned. It is the responsibility of the developer to
comply with current requirements of the County Recorder's office for
appropriate filing and recording requirements.
      (2)   The applicant shall submit the number of copies of the final plat
and related documents requested by the department. The submittal shall include
the following drawings, materials and information.
         (a)   Tract boundary lines, lot and parcel lines, easement lines,
street centerlines, and section lines, all showing accurate bearings and
dimensions with dimensions expressed (rounded) in feet and decimals thereof to
the hundredth.
         (b)   The total area of the subdivision, and, showing the area of each
lot to the nearest hundredth of an acre if greater than one acre; or showing
the area in square feet if less than one acre.
         (c)   Width of streets, width of easements and indication of their
purpose, angle, radius, tangent, and length of all curves.
         (d)   The locations and widths of non-motorized trail way, equestrian
trails or bicycle paths.
         (e)   Location and description of existing or found monuments, such as
section corners and subdivision boundary corners, elevation of benchmarks for a
condominium development, existing rights-of-way and easements, if any.
Easements shall be clearly dimensioned, labeled, and identified, and, if
already of record, properly referenced to the record.
         (f)   Where there are contiguous developments, show name of the
subdivision with reference of record, street right-of-way lines, street names,
street width, easements clearly dimensioned, labeled, and identified, if any;
and if unsubdivided, so note.
         (g)   The legend shall specify the type of documents used.
         (h)   The boundary of the subdivision shall be indicated by a heavy
line, recognizable as a border, clearly showing the boundary of the subdivision
and all of the property being offered for dedication for public use and/or as
easements. Such boundary shall not interfere with the legibility of figures or
other data.
         (i)   Any excepted parcel(s) within the plat boundary shall be
accurately depicted by bearings and distances on the plat;
         (j)   Each lot shall be numbered as per the approved preliminary plat
when applicable and each block may be numbered or lettered.
         (k)   Each street shall be named.
         (l)   All lots not intended for sale or resale for private purposes,
and all parcels offered for dedication for any purpose, public or private, and
any private streets permitted shall be so designated.
         (m)   Label and identify all lots, parcels, tracts, excepted parcels,
and the like for ease of description and to ensure no misunderstanding about
intended use, ownership, or maintenance.
   (C)   Supplementary submittal requirements for final plat. At the time of
submittal of the final plat with department staff, the subdivider shall also
file the following accompanying material:
      (1)   Two copies of an updated title report or a policy of title
insurance issued by a title insurance company within the preceding 30 working
days to the owner of the land, covering the land within the subdivision and
showing all record owners, liens, and encumbrances. The title report shall
evidence that there is legal/permanent access to the proposed subdivision.
      (2)   A copy of any covenants, conditions and restrictions (CC & R's) to
be recorded.
      (3)   An appropriate number of copies as determined by the department of
a memorandum showing the total area of the subdivision, and, showing the area
of each lot to the nearest hundredth of an acre, if greater than one acre; or
showing the area in square feet if less than one acre.
      (4)   An appropriate number as determined by the department of sets of
prints of the construction plans of all improvements required and prepared in
accordance with §
152.09 Subdivision and Street Design Standards, Yavapai County Flood Control
District regulations, ADEQ standards, and any/all other construction standards
or specifications as adopted by the town. In addition, plans shall include all
off-site improvements to be constructed, with details as required by the town's
subdivision and street design standards, and, shall show land ownership,
existing or proposed rights-of-way limits, and other features affecting the
establishment and construction of such required off-site improvements.
      (5)   A cost estimate for constructing the required site improvements
signed and sealed by a Registered Professional Engineer. The cost estimate and
method/type of assurance shall be approved by the Town Engineer and/or Town
Manager prior to approval of the final plat. The actual assurance must be
executed and presented to the town before the subdivision plat is recorded.
      (6)   If private roadways are proposed in the development, then
provisions for perpetual roadway maintenance acceptable to the town shall be
provided for in the Property Owners Association (or other legal entities)
organizational Articles of Incorporation, and shall be submitted with the final
plat.
      (7)   The licensed surveyor who certifies the boundary survey on the plat
shall also submit the mathematical calculations of each boundary, lot and tract
closure. The calculations shall contain enough data in order to follow and
recalculate the method used to determine closure. Calculations shall be bound
and the cover stamped by the appropriate professional. These calculations will
then become a permanent part of the subdivision records.
      (8)   An appropriate number of copies as determined by the department of
a final or Phase III Drainage Report shall be submitted in conjunction with
final construction plans. The purpose of the Phase III Drainage Report is to
update the concepts, provide all information not previously provided and to
present the design details for the drainage facilities discussed in the Phase
II Drainage Report. The limits of any 100-year floodplain identified using the
standards set forth by the ADWR Requirement for Floodplain Delineation in
Riverine Environments, together with the base flood elevation, shall be
illustrated in the final plat. The regulatory elevation for the most critical
location within each lot shall be shown on each lot that is impacted by the
floodplain. All lots impacted by flood hazard areas must have an established
restrictive building envelope that is outside the delineated flood hazard area.
Lots completely within the 100-year flood hazard area will not be permitted, as
this area should be reserved as open space for the conveyance of floodwaters. A
note shall also be placed on the plat indicating that "Floodplain limits, base
flood elevations and regulatory elevations may be revised by subsequent studies
approved by the Flood Control District." Final plats shall also show all
drainage easements in conformance with the approved preliminary plat (if it had
been required) with the associated dedication language. The actual dedication
language should be related to the type of drainage facility and method of
maintenance.
      (9)   Submittal to include a report from ADWR in the form of either a
“Certificate of Assured Water Supply” within “an AMA” pursuant to A.R.S. § 45-
576, or for areas outside of AMA's a statement of water "adequacy" either for
that subdivision or for the water company (private or public) which will serve
the subdivision pursuant to A.R.S. § 45-108.
      (10)   A letter detailing how the application is in compliance with each
stipulation of any conditional zoning or preliminary plat if applicable.
      (11)   The plat shall also show other data that may be required.
   (D)   Certifications, acknowledgments, dedications, acceptances. The
following certifications, acknowledgments, dedications, acceptances, and all
others required shall appear on the final plat. Such certificates may be
combined when appropriate:
      (1)   A certification or ratification signed and acknowledged by all
parties having any record title interest in the land subdivided consenting to
the preparation and recordation of said plat. Certain rights-of-way, easements,
or other interests may be acknowledged by appropriate endorsements on the plat.
      (2)   A certificate signed and acknowledged as above offering for
dedication to the public all parcels intended for public use.
      (3)   An acknowledgement on the face of the plat if applicable “All
private roads will only be taken over by the town for maintenance if the roads
are brought up to the then current town design standards (including but not
limited to surfacing and right-of-way width) for public roadways at owners
expense.”
      (4)   A signed, sealed and dated certificate for execution by the
Registered Land Surveyor as follows: “This is to certify that the survey of the
premises (property) described and platted hereon was made under my direction
and supervision and are accurately represented on this plat. I also certify
that this plat is correct and accurate as shown.”
      (5)   The final plat shall contain the name and registration number cf
the registered professional civil engineer(s) who prepared the preliminary plat
and is responsible for the engineering that is necessary in preparation of the
proposed subdivision.
      (6)   A certificate for signatures and dates by the Town Engineer,
Community Development Director and/or other designated town officials, as
follows: “This plat has been checked for conformance with any special
conditions attached to the approved preliminary plat, the requirements of
subdivision regulations of the town and to any other applicable regulations,
and appears to comply with all requirements within my jurisdiction to check and
evaluate.”
      (7)   A certificate to be signed and dated by the Mayor, and attested to
by the Town Clerk, that the Town Council approved the final plat on a specific
day, month and year, and accepted on behalf of the public all parcels or tracts
of land offered for dedication for public use in conformity with the terms of
the offer of dedication.
   (E)   Recording final plats.
      (1)   When a final plat, construction plans and all required supporting
documents are acceptable to the Town Engineer, Yavapai County Flood Control
District and the Community Development Director, the subdivider shall submit to
the department two reproducible sets of the final plat for scheduling on the
next regular meeting of the Town Council. The two reproducible sets shall
include the following:
         (a)   The signatures of all parties required to sign or endorse the
final plat for the purpose of passing a good and sufficient title to the public
rights-of-way, easements, and parcels offered for dedication and to join in the
subdivision of said property;
         (b)   The signature and seal of the Registered Professional Engineer
and/or Land Surveyor (R.L.S.) preparing the plat and any and all other parties
required to execute certificates thereon, other than the required town
signatures.
      (2)   In addition, all finalized and signed plats and accompanying data,
agreements and other papers or documents necessary to the acceptance of the
plat shall be submitted to the department at least 30 working days prior to the
regular Council meeting at which the applicant desires to be heard.
      (3)   No subdivision plat shall be recorded unless approved by the
Council, and until approved financial assurances have been received by the town
for all required site improvements in accordance with the requirements and
provisions of §
152.10.
      (4)   In addition the following documents and materials shall also be
submitted by the subdivider prior to recordation:
         (a)   The fee for recording the final plat and accompanying deed
restrictions and any pertinent documents as may be required once the final plat
is approved by the Council.
         (b)   The “certificate of assured water supply” or the report finding
the subdivision's water supply to be “adequate” shall be provided prior to the
Council's consideration of the final plat. Note: if the subdivision is not
located within an AMA and approval was based on the understanding that the
subdivision's water supply was going to be found by ADWR to be inadequate the
final plat may be recorded upon issuance of the report if all other subdivision
requirements are met.
(Ord. 09-51, passed 4-21-2009)
§ 152.09 STREET DESIGN AND SUBDIVISION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Street and easement standards.
      (1)   Street frontage requirement. Any lot or parcel established by land
split or by subdivision shall front onto a publicly dedicated street or an
easement building permit shall be issued for any parcel or lot recorded for
access or ingress/egress purposes. No building permit shall be issued for any
parcel or lot not meeting this requirement. An easement for access and ingress/
egress shall be attached to the deed of any parcel granting access to cross
private property to provide ingress/egress to another private property. Newly
created lots or parcels are required to obtain a Land Split Application
approval as noted in §
152.05 to ensure access to all parcel(s) within the town.
      (2)   Street right-of-way or easement(s) widths and standards. Street and
easement widths and levels of improvement shall be designed and improved in
compliance with these regulations and with the standards for residential
development shown in the following chart.
MINIMUM RESIDENTIAL STREET STANDARDS
Minimum   Land Split    Minor Subdivision Major Subdivision
Standards (2-3 parcels) (10 or less lots) (more than 10 lots) Note: average
                                          daily trips (adt)
MINIMUM RESIDENTIAL STREET STANDARDS
                                Minor           Major Subdivision
Minimum         Land Split      Subdivision     (more than 10 lots) Note:
Standards       (2-3 parcels)   (10 or less     average daily trips (adt)
                                lots)
Width of Street 30' local rural 50' local rural 50' local      60' collector
R/W or Easement access          street r/w      street r/w (<  street r/w (>
                easement****                    1000 adt)      1000 adt)
#& Width of     Two @ 9'        Two @ 10'       Two @ 12'      Two @ 14' (+
travel lanes                                                   turn lane**)
Width of total
travel surface  18'             20'             24'            28' **
improvement
                prepared        double chip
                subgrade        seal surface    * 3" asphaltic * 3" asphaltic
Type of surface scarified to    over 5"         concrete over  concrete over 6"
improvement     min. depth of   aggregate base  6" abc         abc
                8" and          course (abc)
                compacted 95%
Width of        2'              2'-4'           4'             4'
Shoulders
Max. Grades     12%***          12%***          12%***         8%***
Non-motorized                   10'             10'            10'
Trail ways
 
*   Minimum required may be greater depending on soils analysis and projected
traffic volumes
**   Turn lane requirement is dependent on projected traffic volumes
***   Grades may be exceeded for short distances for access and sensitivity to
natural terrain as determined and approved by the Town Engineer
****    If the temporary extension is planned to be developed as a larger road,
a greater width may be required or a greater setback may be imposed.
   (B)   Street lengths, intersections and other street design regulations.
      (1)   The arrangement, character, extent, grade, width, and location of
all roadways or streets shall conform to these regulations, Town Public Works
Department standard specifications, details and town roadway functional
classification system, any adopted transportation plan, the general plan and
any specific area plan that affect the proposed new street locations.
      (2)   Street patterns that follow the natural terrain as much as is
feasible within the standards of these regulations are encouraged.
      (3)   The arrangement of streets shall provide continuation or
appropriate projection of existing major streets in surrounding areas. All
centerlines shall be continuations of the centerlines of existing streets and
highways in contiguous territory. In cases where straight continuations are not
physically possible, such centerlines may be continued by curves.
      (4)   Structures or culverts shall be installed as deemed necessary by
the Town Engineer for drainage, access and public safety. Such structures and
culverts are to be placed to grades and be of design and size approved or
authorized by the Town Engineer. Adequate drainage of the subdivision streets
or roadways shall be provided by means of said structures or culverts and by
other approved methods, in accordance with the engineering standards adopted by
the Town Engineer and Yavapai County Flood Control District.
      (5)   All roads and alleys developed or improved in conjunction with
subdivision development shall either be:
         (a)   Built to town standards, dedicated to the town by the plat and
accepted by the Council; or
         (b)   Built to town standards and exist and be maintained as private
roads within appropriate minimum rights-of-way in compliance with these
regulations or as recommended by the Town Engineer.
      (6)   Half roads or partial width rights-of- way will only be approved
where no alternative design exists, or where said partial rights-of-way would
require the dedication of additional contiguous rights-of-way to make it full
width. The developer shall include evidence that the additional right-of-way
necessary to accomplish full width dedication is permanently reserved for
future road purposes. Half roads will only be accepted where they are a portion
of the road system approved as part of an adopted transportation plan, the town
roadway network plan, the general plan or specific area plan.
      (7)   Dead end streets. Streets designated to have one end permanently
closed, shall be no more than six times the minimum lot width nor more than
1320 feet long unless authorized by the Council by an approved waiver.
         (a)   Dead end streets shall be designed at the closed end with an
approved turnaround, which shall be designed to meet the requirements or
specifications of the Central Yavapai Fire District.
         (b)   Where it is desirable to provide street access to adjoining
properties, proposed streets shall be extended by dedication to the boundary of
such property. Such dead end streets shall be provided with a temporary
turnaround having a roadway diameter of at least 80 feet.
      (8)   Intersections.
         (a)   Street intersections shall be at right angles (90°).
         (b)   Property line radii at street intersections shall not be less
than 25 feet, however, the Town Engineer may require a greater radius at edge
of pavement where necessary.
      (9)   Jogs in minor streets. Street jogs of less than 135 feet in length
shall not be approved.
      (10)   Street names. Proposed street names and address numbering shall be
assigned and administered in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works
Department. Where a proposed street is a continuation of an existing street,
the existing street name shall be retained.
      (11)   Alleys. Alleys shall be provided to the rear of all lots used for
business purposes and as deemed necessary by the Commission. Alleys may be
permitted in residential developments where a subdivider can produce evidence
satisfactory to the Commission of the desirability of such provisions.
   (C)   Block and lot design regulations.
      (1)   Blocks. The length, width and shape of blocks shall be determined
with due regard to provisions for adequate building sites, the zoning
requirements as to lot area and dimensions, limitations, and opportunities of
topography and associated needs for convenient access, traffic circulation,
control and safety to streets and pedestrian traffic.
         (a)   Length of blocks shall not be more than 1320 feet except as the
Commission considers necessary to secure efficient use of the land or as a
desired feature of street design. Where fronting on major streets, lengthened
blocks may be utilized in order to reduce the number of intersections along the
major street or arterial.
         (b)   Non-motorized trail way. A non-motorized trail way (paths or
sidewalks) ten feet wide shall be provided in blocks over 1320 feet in length
or where deemed by the Commission to be necessary for the public safety and
convenience; and pedestrian crosswalks may be required in blocks over 660 feet
in length.
         (c)   Width of blocks should be wide enough to allow two tiers of
lots.
      (2)   Lots.
         (a)   Arrangement. The lot area, width, depth, shape and orientation,
as well as the minimum building setback lines shall be appropriate for the
location of the subdivision, for the type of development and use contemplated,
and shall conform to zoning requirements and these regulations. Side lot lines
shall be designed at right angles to straight street lines or radial to curved
street lines. Each lot must front upon a public street or road or approved
access. All lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive drainage away from
all buildings and building site areas. Easements may be on common lot fines,
but should follow natural water courses as much as possible.
         (b)   Accessibility. Each lot shall be accessible to the street on
which it fronts, except that no lot shall gain direct access via arterial
roads. When a tract fronts on an arterial road the Commission may require lots
within the subdivision to have reverse frontage. In all residential
subdivisions, road layout shall be designed so as to encourage neighborhood
connectivity but discourage through traffic on local streets.
         (c)   Minimum size. Each lot shall be of a suitable size for the
purpose for which it is intended and shall contain a usable building site
meeting applicable zoning district requirements. The area of a lot shall be
deemed the area shown, exclusive of any area designated for public street
right-of-way dedication.
      (3)   Large tracts or parcels. When the land is subdivided into large
tracts or parcels, they shall be arranged to accommodate the location of future
streets and logical extensions of existing streets.
         (a)   No subdivision shall be created with tracts or parcels
contemplated for future division without prior authorization by the Council.
Parcels and tracts shall be designated by capital letters and be designated in
sequence starting with the letter “A”.
         (b)   Any proposed future division of a tract or parcel in an approved
subdivision shall constitute a revision of plat, §
152.11(B) and be subject to the subdivision procedures and requirements of this
chapter.
      (4)   Lot numbering.
         (a)   Each lot shall be designated by an Arabic numeral.
         (b)   If block designations are not used, numbering shall be in
consecutive sequence within the block beginning with the number "1" wherever
lots have common side boundaries within a subdivision or within a block along
each street and contiguous consecutive numbers shall follow from one block to
another.
         (c)   When block designations are used, numbering shall be in
consecutive sequence within each block area commencing with the corresponding
number for each block.
         (d)   Numbering sequences may follow in continuity from one tract to
another when lying contiguous to one another, or when separate or contiguous if
the same name is used for successive tracts.
      (5)   Monumentation. A monument shall be set at each lot corner and at
all points of curvature or tangency along lot lines and along the exterior
boundary and points of reference of the subdivision, monuments shall be set in
conformance with Arizona Boundary Survey Minimum Standards. Whenever streets
are improved to the extent that paving is included, survey monuments will be
required along their centerline at all street intersections and at the point of
curvature and point of tangency of all curves and shall be set as approved by
the Town Engineer.
   (D)   Sanitary sewerage, water, utilities and refuse disposal.
      (1)   Sanitary sewerage. Where a public sanitary sewage system is
reasonably accessible the subdivider shall connect with such sewer and provide
a connection to each lot.
         (a)   A sewage collection and treatment system may be required as a
condition of approval for any subdivision pursuant to ADEQ Design Bulletins.
         (b)   When connection to a sanitary sewage system is not available,
individual on-site wastewater systems or other disposal methods may be
permitted provided that a statement is submitted to the Commission by Yavapai
County Environmental Unit certifying that field investigation has determined
that ground slopes and soil conditions will allow for satisfactory disposal by
this method with the lot arrangement and size as depicted on the subdivision
plat.
      (2)   Water. Where a public or private water system is reasonably
accessible the subdivider shall install water mains connecting with existing
water utility systems to serve each lot when and if connection to such system
is available. In such case, prior to the approval of the final plat, the
subdivider shall submit a letter from the governing body of the water system
showing the ability of the system to serve the proposed subdivision and
evidence that a satisfactory agreement has been made for connection to the
system.
         (a)   When connection to a water system is not available, the
subdivider may provide service by the establishment of a private or community
water system. The source of supply shall be developed and improved to the
satisfaction of ADEQ or its representatives so that the subdivision may be
adequately supplied with water. The source of water may also be subject to
approvals by ADWR described in division (e) below.
         (b)   Water mains and fire hydrants, if installed, shall be installed
to grades, location, design and sizes on plans submitted by a Registered
Professional Engineer and approved by the Town Engineer and ADEQ.
         (c)   A water system shall be provided as a condition of approval for
any subdivision containing lots or parcels less than one acre in area.
         (d)   In the case of a subdivision with lots equal to or over one acre
in area, water supply may be from other than a community system. In this case
evidence shall be submitted showing that sufficient potable water is available
and can be obtained for all lots in the subdivision.
         (e)   Where land lies within the Prescott Active Management Area
designated by the Arizona Department of Water Resources (ADWR), any subdivision
of six or more lots shall require approval of a certificate of assured water
supply or other authorization by the ADWR.
      (3)   Modification of lot sizes. Minimum lot size may be modified by
requirements of the state or Yavapai County regulations pertinent to water and
sanitary sewage systems. The requirements for development of water supplies and
sewage disposal systems shall not be less than those outlined in engineering
criteria and other regulations of the Arizona Department of Water Resources,
the Arizona Department of Environmental Quality, and other appropriate county
or local agencies.
      (4)   Refuse disposal. Subdividers shall indicate proposed method of
refuse collection and disposal. If any method is planned to be used other than
that normally supplied in the town, the Council may require suitable facilities
as deemed necessary to be furnished by the subdivider before the subdivision is
approved.
      (5)   Utilities and easements. Except where alleys are provided for that
purpose, easements at least 16 feet in total width, one-half of which is
provided from each adjoining lot, shall be provided where necessary along rear
lot lines; total width of easements may need to be increased for multiple
utilities and structures such as poles, wires, conduits, sanitary sewers, gas
mains; water mains, or for other utilities; where necessary, additional
easements shall be located along the side lot lines. Half or partial easements
may only be approved where written commitment of dedication of necessary
additional easements are on record. All easements shall be in accordance with
those approved by the utility companies concerned.
   (E)   Public reservation and sensitive design considerations.
      (1)   Public reservation. Consideration shall be given to the reservation
of land for parks, recreational facilities, school sites and fire stations as
designated in the general plan and/or applicable specific area plans during the
design and layout of the subdivision. The Council, pursuant to A.R.S. § 9-
463.01, may require certain lands to be reserved for such public purposes which
are limited in scope and duration as follows:
         (a)   The land area reserved shall be of such a size and shape as to
permit the remainder of the land area of the subdivision within which the
reservation is located to develop in an orderly and efficient manner.
         (b)   The land area reserved shall be in such multiples of streets and
parcels as to permit an efficient division of the reserved area in the event
that it is not acquired within the prescribed period.
         (c)   The public agency for whose benefit an area has been reserved
shall have a period of one year after recording the final subdivision plat to
enter into an agreement to acquire such reserved land area. The purchase price
shall be the fair market value of the reserved land area at the time of the
filing of the preliminary subdivision plat plus the taxes against such reserved
area from the date of the reservation and any other costs incurred by the
subdivider in the maintenance of such reserved area, including the interest
cost incurred on any loan covering such reserved area.
         (d)   If the public agency for whose benefit an area has been reserved
does not exercise the reservation agreement set forth in this section within
such one year period or such extended period as may be mutually agreed upon by
such public agency and the subdivider, the reservation of such area shall
terminate.
      (2)   Sensitive design considerations. The subdivider shall give
consideration to preserving natural features such as large rock outcroppings,
ridge lines, riparian areas and views of area landmarks in the design and
layout of the subdivision.
         (a)   Landscaping in commonly owned areas (i.e. land that is owned and
maintained jointly by property owners or by a property owners association) or
those areas landscaped by the developer are encouraged to utilize drought
tolerant plants and utilize Xeriscape plans to minimize water usage. By
definition, Xeriscape means some water applied in well controlled amounts and
locations in the landscape.
         (b)   Utility installations shall be located underground to assure
that they do not detract from the design and amenity of the subdivision, except
for above ground appurtenances of underground utilities, and for major
transmission and distribution feeder lines together with related switchyards,
substations and equipment.
   (F)   Special development subdivisions waivers.
      (1)   Special development subdivisions. Modified standards and
requirements of these regulations may be accepted by the Council in the case of
a plan and program for a neighborhood unit, or Planned Area Development which,
in the judgment of the Council provides adequate public recreation, light, air
and service needs for the tract when fully developed and populated, and which
also provides such covenants or other legal provisions as will assure
conformity to and achievement of the general plan, applicable specific area
plan or Zoning Ordinance.
         (a)   When such a preliminary development plan is submitted it shall
be accompanied by a petition for variations, as outlined in these regulations,
setting out and explaining reasons for all deviations from standards as herein
required.
         (b)   Special development variations may include (but are not limited
to):
            1.   Streets of less width than standard requirements, but with
adequate provisions for off street parking;
            2.   Up to four lots served by a common driveway where topographic
conditions would justify such treatment;
            3.   Up to four buildings per site in a cluster of less than
minimum lot area if a corresponding contiguous commonly owned area plus the
building site areas brings the total combination of building sites and commonly
owned areas to minimum area standards, and provisions are made that each lot
owner has an undivided interest in the contiguous parcel and it is restricted
to be used only for recreational purpose or to remain "open", i.e. not for
buildings; or
            4.   For the design of special common sanitation facilities,
         (c)   Special development subdivisions shall be regulated as outlined
in Sec 440 Planned Area Developments in the Zoning Ordinance.
      (2)   Waivers. The Planning Commission may recommend and the Council may
approve waivers or variances from the terms of these regulations, where by
reason of exceptional or extraordinary situations or conditions of a tract of
land, the strict application of any regulation enacted herein would result in
peculiar and exceptional practical difficulties to, or undue hardship upon, the
subdivider. Such variance or waiver may be given provided such relief may be
granted without detriment to the public good and without impairing the intent
and purposes of these regulations. A request for a waiver shall be submitted in
writing by the subdivider with the sketch plan or preliminary plat process. If
approval of the waiver request or portion thereof is recommended by the
Commission for a preliminary plat or by staff for a final plat, it shall be
presented to the Council as part of the plat. Any approval action shall be
based upon all of the following findings:
         (a)   That strict application of design and improvement regulations
would preclude reasonable subdivision development of the subject property.
         (b)   That there are special circumstances applicable to the property
related to its topography, shape, and/or location that dictate the need for
this waiver to ensure good subdivision design and development.
         (c)   That the granting of this waiver will not be detrimental to the
public health, safety, and general welfare or injurious to other property in
the area in which said property is situated.
   (G)   Hillside development subdivisions.
      (1)   The principal purpose of these hillside development standards is to
allow the reasonable and beneficial use and development of private property
within areas considered “hillside” (i.e. the majority of the development site
has a natural slope greater than 20%) while promoting the public health,
safety, convenience and general welfare of the citizens of the town and
maintaining the character, identity and image (i.e. preserving ridgelines) of
hillside areas which are seen as valuable scenic resources.
      (2)   The regulations of this section shall apply to all lots or parcels
having a natural slope of 20% or greater. This slope is calculated using a
minimum run of 100 feet with a rise greater than 20 feet over that 100 foot
run.
      (3)   Hillside lot standards.
         (a)   Total disturbed area within a lot shall not exceed that of the
zoning district maximum lot coverage, but in no case to exceed 25%.
         (b)   All lots within hillside development subdivisions shall be
subdivided to contain a minimum of 25,000 square feet and have minimum lot
widths at building setback of 120 feet.
         (c)   "Panhandle", double frontage, and other unconventional lots may
be permitted so long as it can be adequately demonstrated that no such lot will
adversely affect any other lot.
         (d)   The maximum height of air cuts may not exceed the height of the
primary structure, excluding antennas and other attachments.
         (e)   The maximum height of any improvement may not exceed the closest
ridgeline adjacent or contained within the parcel.
         (f)   All fill material must be landscaped to match adjacent
vegetation.
      (4)   Hillside road standards.
         (a)   Street grades shall not exceed 12%, except for a maximum length
of 600 feet where the grade may be a maximum of 15% with approval of the Town
Engineer.
         (b)   Minimum dedicated street rights- of-way may be reduced, when
justified by extreme cross-slope cut and fill areas or similar conditions.
         (c)   "T" or "Y" type turning and backing areas may be substituted for
circular turnarounds.
         (d)   Private streets or drives serving not more than four lots shall
be permitted to a maximum length of 300 feet.
(Ord. 09-51, passed 4-21-2009)
§ 152.10 ASSURANCES, GUARANTEES, IMPROVEMENTS, INSPECTIONS AND RELEASES.
   (A)   Assurances and guarantees. No final plat will be recorded unless one
or more of the following methods of assurance are submitted with the final
plat, with a cost estimate for construction of the required on- and off-site
improvements, signed and sealed by a Registered Professional Engineer. The
amount of the assurance shall be based on the engineer's cost estimate for all
required and remaining site improvements as approved by the Town Engineer.
Utility service assurances may be provided by letter from water, sewer,
electric and other appropriate utility companies to guarantee improvements.
      (1)   Performance bond. The subdivider shall file with the town a bond
executed by a surety company holding a license to do business in the state, and
acceptable to the town, in an amount equal to the cost of the improvements
required by these Regulations and within the time for completion of
improvements as estimated by the Engineer of Record and approved by the Town
Engineer. The performance bond shall be approved as to form and legality by the
Town Attorney.
      (2)   Trust agreement. The subdivider shall place on deposit in a bank or
trust company in the name of the town, and approved by the Town Attorney, in a
trust account a sum of money equal to the estimated cost of all site
improvements required by these regulations. The cost and time of completion
shall be approved by the Town Engineer. The trust shall be approved as to form
and legality by the Town Attorney. Periodic withdrawals may be made from the
trust account for a progressive payment of installation costs. The amounts of
such withdrawals shall be based upon progress work estimates and approved by
the Town Engineer. All such withdrawals shall be approved by the Trustee.
      (3)   Unconditional guarantee from a local bank or federally insured
savings and loan association or from other financial institutions as approved
by the town. The subdivider shall file with the town a letter, signed and
notarized by the principal officer of a savings and loan association or other
financial institution acceptable to the town, agreeing to pay the town on
demand, a stipulated sum of money to apply to the estimated cost of
installation of all improvements for which the subdivider or developer is
responsible under these regulations. The guaranteed payment sum shall be
determined from the estimated costs and scheduling as approved by the Town
Engineer. The letter shall state the name of the subdivision and shall list the
improvements for which the subdivider or developer is required to provide
together with a schedule for completion.
   (B)   Improvements/construction of public or private improvements prior to
final plat approval and/or recordation.
      (1)   No subdivision site work shall be initiated unless or until the
preliminary plat has been approved by the Council and the site work authorized
by the Town Engineer and there are approved construction plans.
      (2)   If the subdivider chooses to construct the required improvements
prior to final plat approval or recordation, he shall submit the construction
plans prepared by a Registered Professional Engineer, inspection reports, test
reports and material certifications to the Town Engineer for approval. Once
approvals are obtained and a development permit from the Flood Control District
for drainage work has been issued, then site construction can be initiated.
      (3)   Such construction will be performed with the understanding that the
developer is doing so at his own risk should something be changed on the plat
design prior to approval/recordation that may warrant modifications to site
improvements.
   (C)   Duration and releases.
      (1)   The duration of the performance bond or other assurance shall be
for two years, from the date of recording. Extensions of time in one year
increments may be granted by the department by showing just cause. The
assurance (surety) shall remain in force and effect until it is released by the
Council or has been authorized for partial release as provided for herein.
      (2)   The Town Engineer, upon receipt of a certification from the
Engineer of Record, may authorize a reduction of the assurance for the work
completed in accordance with the approved cost estimate and construction plans.
A percentage (10%) of the estimated cost of completed improvements will be
retained to insure sufficient funds remain to insure completion of the site
improvements, final inspections and preparation of final “as-built” plans.
      (3)   In the event that the subdivider defaults or fails or neglects to
satisfactorily install the required improvements within the time agreed upon
for performance, the Council may declare the bond, or other assurance
forfeited, and the Town may make or cause the required improvements to be made,
using the trust funds or proceeds of the collection of the bond or other
assurance to defray the expense thereof. In addition, the department shall
notify ADRE of the default.
   (D)   Inspections and final release.
      (1)   The subdivider, using the services of a Registered Professional
Engineer and plans as approved by the Town Engineer, shall be responsible for
the quality of all materials and workmanship. At the completion of the work, or
not less than 30 days prior to the release date of the bond or other assurance,
the Engineer of Record shall make an inspection of the improvements and shall
submit a set of “as-built” construction plans if complete or a report on the
status of improvements if only partially complete to the Town Engineer. The
Town Engineer will review the “as-built” plans and/or report and notify the
developer of any noncompliance with the approved construction plans or with
these regulations. If the Town Engineer determines that compliance has been
made, he will then submit a report to the Council, setting forth the conditions
of such facilities.
      (2)   A certificate sealed by the Engineer of Record on the “as-built”
plans stating that the construction has been completed in substantial
conformance to the specifications and standards contained in or referred to
herein must by approved by the Town Engineer and presented to the Council prior
to the surety release. If all conditions are found to be satisfactory and the
improvements comply with Town Standards, the Council shall release the
guarantee. If the condition of materials or workmanship shows unusual
depreciation or does not comply with Town Standards, the Town Engineer may
present this information to the Council who may declare the subdivider in
default.
      (3)   Certification and acceptance.
         (a)   The Engineer of Record shall certify: “In my professional
opinion, the construction of the specific site improvements required for
approval has been completed in substantial conformance with the construction
plans and specifications including changes and addendums. My professional
opinion is based, in part, upon the completion of certain tests and
measurements and/or the review of the results of such tests and measurements
completed by others. The rendering of this opinion in no way relieves any other
party from meeting requirements imposed by contract, plans, specifications or
commonly accepted industry standards.”
         (b)   Once the improvements are approved and the surety released, the
Council will review the public roadways for acceptance into the Town System for
Maintenance.
(Ord. 09-51, passed 4-21-2009)
§ 152.11 AMENDMENTS, REVISIONS, REPLAT AND ADDITIONAL AUTHORITIES.
   (A)   Map amendments/corrections.
      (1)   No changes, erasures, modifications or revisions shall be made in
the final plat after approval of the plat has been given by the Council, except
that any plat map of a subdivision that has been approved and/or recorded may
be amended to correct a scrivener error in any course or distance or other
necessary item that was omitted there from, or to correct a drafting, graphic,
technical, typographical or similar type error, including lot line adjustments
that do not create new lots or reduce the size of any lot below the minimum
required for its district, or for minor changes related to public safety,
infrastructure alterations, adjustments and conflicts or a documented change in
conditions. A request for an amended map for corrections and modifications
specified above may be filed with the Department.
      (2)   The Community Development Director shall examine such amended map,
and if such examination discloses that the only changes on the amended map are
the changes authorized above, he shall certify this to be a fact over his
signature on the amended map. If the subdivision was previously recorded, it
will thereafter be entitled to be recorded as the “AMENDED MAP OF           .”
      (3)   The use of the terminology of amended map shall not be used to add
any lot lines, streets or easements; or statements that were not contained on
the approved plat, since such actions necessitate reprocessing of the plat.
   (B)   Revision of plat. The following requested changes to an approved final
plat shall be considered a revision of plat and require an application and the
same processing as that of the original final plat (§
152.08) and subsequent approval by the Council:
      (1)   Any division of a lot or lots in a recorded subdivision resulting
in an increase in the total number of lots in that subdivision;
      (2)   Any revision or replat involving dedication or abandonment of land
for a public street, public easement, or other public rights-of-way;
      (3)   Any change in lot lines in a recorded subdivision; provided,
however, that changes in lot lines, which result in only nominal increases or
decreases of lot sizes, may be administratively approved as a replat;
      (4)   Any changes in the location of streets, easements, and other public
rights-of-way; provided, however, that nominal changes may be administratively
approved as a replat; or
      (5)   Any changes in the exterior boundary of a recorded subdivision.
   (C)   Replat.
      (1)   The request for changes that are considered nominal, as listed
below, shall be considered a replat and may be administratively approved by the
Community Development Director; the Community Development Director, however,
may require the request to be acted upon by Council, requiring an application
in accordance with the processing of a final plat (§
152.08).
         (a)   The joining or merger of lots in a recorded subdivision;
         (b)   Any joining of lots and subsequent division of those lots in a
recorded subdivision which result in no increase in the total number of lots in
that subdivision;
         (c)   Any changes in lot lines, which result in only nominal increases
or decreases of lot sizes;
         (d)   Any nominal changes in the location of streets, easements, and
other public rights-of-way.
   (D)   Additional authorities.
      (1)   Other plats. The Council shall review the following in compliance
with these regulations, and conduct hearings for approval or denial in addition
to final subdivision plats:
         (a)   Plats filed for the purpose of reverting to acreage of land
previously subdivided.
         (b)   Plats filed for the purpose of vacating streets or easements
previously dedicated to the public.
         (c)   Plats filed for the purpose of vacating or re-describing lot or
parcel boundaries previously recorded.
      (2)   Protected development right. Pursuant to A.R.S. § 9-1202, a final
subdivision plat that is approved by Council and meets all state and town
regulations regarding subdivisions is a protected development right plan as
defined in A.R.S. § 9-1201 as the right to undertake and complete the
development and use of property under the terms and conditions of a protected
development right plan, without compliance with subsequent changes in zoning
regulations and development standards, except as provided by A.R.S. § 9-1204.
         (a)   A protected development right established under a protected
development right plan is valid for three years for a non-phased development or
five years for a phased development.
         (b)   The Council may extend for a maximum of two additional years the
duration of a protected development right obtained through approval of a
protected development right plan, if a longer time period is warranted by all
relevant circumstances, including the size, type and phasing of the development
on the property, the level of investment of the landowner, economic cycles and
market conditions. The decision to extend the time period for a protected
development right is in the discretion of the Council. However, a protected
development right shall not remain established for more than five years for a
non-phased development or seven years for a phased development.
(Ord. 09-51, passed 4-21-2009)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations. It is unlawful for any person to offer to sell or lease,
to contract to sell or lease or to sell or lease any subdivision or part
thereof until a final plat thereof, in full compliance with provisions of these
regulations, has been approved by the Council and recorded in the office of the
County Recorder. This shall not apply to any parcel or parcels of a subdivision
offered for sale or lease, contracted for sale or lease, or sold or leased in
compliance with the subdivision regulations of the county, approved and
recorded prior to the incorporation of the town.
   (B)   Penalty. A division of a parcel of land, or the division of a
structure into multiple interests, which is in violation of the provisions,
requirements, and processes of this chapter, shall be considered a violation of
this Planning and Zoning Ordinance and subject to the provisions of §
153.999.
(Ord. 09-51, passed 4-21-2009)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Short title
   
153.002   Purpose
   
153.003   Scope
   
153.004   Inconsistent provisions
   
153.005   Definitions
Administration; Enforcement
   
153.015   Applicability and exemptions
   
153.016   Nonconforming uses and structures
   
153.017   Establishment of districts
   
153.018   Zoning Map
   
153.019   Enforcement
   
153.020   Remedies
   
153.021   Board of Adjustment; Zoning Administrator
   
153.022   Amendments to chapter
   
153.023   Citizen participation
   
153.024   Reasonable accommodations
Use Districts
   
153.035   Use districts generally
   
153.036   R1L District (Residential; Single Family Limited)
   
153.037   RMM District (Residential; Multi-sectional Manufactured Homes)
   
153.038   R1 District (Residential; Single Family)
   
153.039   RCU District (Residential; Rural)
   
153.040   R2 District (Residential; Multi-family)
   
153.041   RS District (Residential and Services)
   
153.042   C1 District (Commercial; Neighborhood Sales and Services)
   
153.043   C2 District (Commercial; General Sales and Services)
   
153.044   C3 District (Commercial and Minor Industrial)
   
153.045   PM District (Performance Industrial)
   
153.046   M1 District (Industrial; General Limited)
   
153.047   M2 District (Industrial; Heavy)
   
153.048   PAD District (Planned Area Development)
   
153.049   RCD District (Residential Camping District)
   
153.050   OS District (Open Space Resource Conservation Zone)
   
153.051   Overlay Zones
General Regulations
   
153.065   General district provisions
   
153.066   Accessory uses and structures
   
153.067   Administrative review with comment period
   
153.068   Bed and breakfasts
   
153.069   Density districts
   
153.070   Density formulas
   
153.071   Drainage criteria manual
   
153.072   [Reserved]
   
153.073   Dwelling prohibition
   
153.074   Fuel storage tanks in conjunction with automotive service facility
   
153.075   Golf course standards
   
153.075.5   Accessory dwelling unit (ADU)
   
153.076   Height limits
   
153.077   Home occupation
   
153.078   [Reserved]
   
153.079   [Reserved]
   
153.080   Landscaping and screening
   
153.081   Liquid propane dispensing retail
   
153.082   Manufactured housing/multi-sectional manufactured housing standards
   
153.083   Mobile home parks and the like
   
153.084   Nuisance and hazards
   
153.085   Outside display, commercial
   
153.086   Outside storage
   
153.087   Protective screening
   
153.088   Real estate offices, temporary
   
153.089   Self-service storage facilities
   
153.090   Swimming pool safety
   
153.091   Use permits
   
153.092   Vehicle and portable machinery repair
   
153.093   Yards and courts
Focused Development Regulations
   
153.110   Parking requirements
   
153.111   Off-street loading requirements
   
153.112   Street naming and addressing
Sign Code
   
153.125   Purpose
   
153.126   Definitions
   
153.127   Permits required
   
153.128   General provisions
   
153.129   Sign regulations for use districts
   
153.130   Sign regulations, mobile home, travel trailer and recreational
vehicle parks
Light Pollution Control
   
153.150   Introduction
   
153.151   Definitions
   
153.152   Lighting requirements
   
153.153   Permits
Wireless Communications Facilities  
   
153.165   Purpose
   
153.166   Definitions
   
153.167   Applicability
   
153.168   General provisions
   
153.169   Permitted uses
   
153.170   Provider's communication plan
   
153.171   Application review
   
153.172   Collocation
   
153.173   Setbacks
   
153.174   Removal
   
153.175   Modification
Sex Oriented Businesses
   
153.190   Purpose
   
153.191   Definitions
   
153.192   Establishment and location
   
153.193   Measurement of distance
   
153.194   Regulations governing existing sex oriented businesses
   
153.195   Regulations pertaining to exhibition of sexually explicit films,
videos or adult live entertainment in viewing rooms
   
153.196   Regulations pertaining to businesses without viewing rooms
   
153.197   Advertising regulations
   
153.198   Hours of operation
Medical Marijuana
   
153.205   Purpose
   
153.206   Definitions
   
153.207   Establishment and location
   
153.208   Hours of operation
Recreational Marijuana
   
153.209   Purpose
   
153.210   Definitions
   
153.211   Marijuana prohibitions
   
153.212   Individual's primary residence for personal use
   
153.213   Violations
   
153.214   Enforcement; penalties
Design and Development Standards
   
153.215   Introduction and purpose
   
153.216   Applicability
   
153.217   Process for proposed developments
   
153.218   Building orientation
   
153.219   Parking setbacks
   
153.220   Protective screens; fences, walls and landscape
   
153.221   Building design and architectural styles, generally
   
153.222   Building design compatibility
   
153.223   Building design elements
   
153.224   Architectural styles and themes, generally
   
153.225   Late Territorial Commercial and Early 20th Century Commercial
   
153.226   Mission style
   
153.227   Craftsman/Bungalow style
   
153.228   Contemporary Southwestern Ranch theme
   
153.229   (Reserved)
 
   
153.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Fee Schedule
Editor's note:
   The basis for this chapter was set forth by Ordinance No. 05-08, passed 5-
31-2005, as amended, and superseded by the present “omnibus” Ordinance No. 08-
44, passed 10-21-2008, effective 1-1-2009.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Planning and Zoning
Ordinance of the Town of Dewey-Humboldt" or "this chapter."
(Ord. 08-44 § 101, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 153.002 PURPOSE.
   Relating to the adoption of a comprehensive long-term plan of development
for the incorporated area of jurisdiction of the town as provided in A.R.S.
Title 9, Chapter 4, Article 6 of the Arizona Revised Statutes; in order to
conserve and promote the public health, safety, convenience and general
welfare, by guiding and accomplishing a coordinated and harmonious town
development for future growth.
(Ord. 08-44 § 102, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 153.003 SCOPE.
   In the interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
(unless otherwise provided) shall be deemed minimum requirements designed to
govern the division and use of land in order to: secure safety from fire, panic
and other dangers; provide adequate light and air; prevent overcrowding of land
and avoid undue concentration of population in certain areas; facilitate
adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks and other
public requirements; maintain and promote stable values of land and structures.
These provisions shall govern whenever they are more stringent than any other
statute, ordinance, legal covenant, agreement or contract, but shall not
abrogate any other such requirement which is more stringent or restrictive than
these provisions.
(Ord. 08-44 § 103, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 153.004 INCONSISTENT PROVISIONS.
   All ordinances and portions of ordinances of the town in conflict herewith
are hereby repealed. If inconsistencies or conflicts are found herewith, the
stricter standard shall apply.
(Ord. 08-44 § 105, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 153.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and
their derivations shall have the meaning given on the following pages. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words in
the singular number include the plural number. The word "shall" is always
mandatory and not merely directory. The word "person" includes individuals,
partnerships, corporations, clubs and associations. The following words or
terms when applied to this chapter shall carry full force when used
interchangeably: lot, plot, parcel or premises; used, arranged, occupied or
maintained; sold or dispensed; construct, reconstruct, erect, place or alter
(structurally or otherwise).
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. See BUILDING.
   ACCESSORY USE.  See USE.
   ADJACENT. Nearby, but not necessarily touching (abutting).
   ADJUSTMENT BOARD.  Board of Adjustment and Appeals of the Town of Dewey-
Humboldt, Arizona.
   AGRITOURISM. Any activity that allows members of the general public, for
recreational or educational purposes, to view, enjoy or participate in rural
activities, including farming, ranching, historical, cultural, u-pick, harvest-
your-own produce or natural activities and attractions occurring on property
defined as agricultural real property pursuant to A.R.S. § 42-12151 if the
activity is conducted in connection with and directly related to business whose
primary income is derived from producing livestock or agricultural commodities
for commercial purposes.
   ALLEY. A public passageway affording a secondary means of access to abutting
property.
   ANTIQUE.  A product that is sold or exchanged because of increased value
derived due to oldness as respects the present age, but not simply because same
is not a new product.
   APARTMENT. A suite of rooms, with or without cooking facilities, used for
living purposes. Each such suite of rooms having cooking facilities shall
constitute a dwelling unit.
   APARTMENT HOTEL. See HOTEL.
   APARTMENT HOUSE.  A building containing a group of dwelling units.
   ARTERIAL. A highway used, or intended to be used, for heavy through-traffic
flow or one connecting neighborhoods or communities.
   ATTACHED BUILDING. See BUILDING.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. A place of business having pumps and/or storage
tanks from which liquid fuel and/or lubricants are dispensed at retail directly
into the motor vehicle. Service, inspections and minor repairs are considered
accessory to the sale of such fuel and lubricants.
   BED AND BREAKFAST GUEST UNIT. One or more rooms intended for overnight
occupancy for remuneration by persons other than those who permanently reside
at the home.
   BED AND BREAKFAST HOMESTAY. An owner-occupied residence which has up to
three guest units within a single family residential structure, the owners of
which serve breakfast to guests and seldom advertise.
   BED AND BREAKFAST INN. An owner-occupied residence which has a maximum of
five guest units, the owners of which serve breakfast to guests and advertise
on a regular basis.
   BED AND BREAKFAST COUNTRY INN. A residence or building which has six or more
guest units, the facility may have a restaurant open to the general public as
well as registered guests, and the facility exhibits a character of use
consistent with that normally associated with a hotel or motel. Performance
standards for hotel/motel shall apply for application of chapter requirements.
   BLOCK. That property fronting on one side of a street and so bounded by
other streets, canals, railroad right-of-way, nonsubdivided acreage or other
barriers (except alleys) of sufficient magnitude as to interrupt the continuity
of development on both sides thereof.
   BOARDING HOUSE. See ROOMING HOUSE.
   BUILDING.  A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls.
   BUILDING (ACCESSORY). A subordinate building either attached or detached
from the principal building, containing an accessory use.
   BUILDING (ATTACHED). A building which has at least part of a wall in common
with another building, or which is connected to another building by a roof that
exceeds six feet wide between opposite open ends (see example).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dabe9726ae38701612cdb69c32e218ccf7d4b064/
IMAGES/0-0-0-689.jpg]
 
   BUILDING (CLOSED). A building completely enclosed by a roof, walls and/or
doors on all sides.
   BUILDING (COMMUNITY). A public or quasi-public building used for community
activities of an educational, recreational or public service nature.
   BUILDING (DETACHED). A building which is separated from another building or
buildings on the same lot. Buildings connected only with a roof not more than
six feet wide between opposite open ends shall be deemed to be detached (see
example).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dabe9726ae38701612cdb69c32e218ccf7d4b064/
IMAGES/0-0-0-692.jpg]
 
   BUILDING (FACTORY BUILT). A residential or nonresidential building including
a dwelling unit or habitable room thereof which is either wholly or in
substantial part manufactured at an off-site location (factory assembled) to be
assembled on-site, and complies with current adopted building codes (except
that it does not include a multi-section manufactured home, manufactured home,
park model, recreational vehicle or mobile home).
   BUILDING (PRINCIPAL).  A building or buildings in which is conducted the
principal use of the lot on which it is situated. In any residential district,
any dwelling shall be deemed to be the principal building of the lot on which
the same is situated. Any commercial building with an adequate approved
sanitary sewage disposal system may be considered the PRINCIPAL BUILDING.
   BUILDING (SITE BUILT). A building, all or a major portion of which was
constructed on site.
   BUILDING AREA. The total areas (taken on a horizontal plane at the mean
grade level) of the principal buildings and all accessory buildings and
structures (exclusive of terraces and steps).
   BUILDING FLOOR AREA. Sum of the floor areas of all stories of a building.
This includes courts and decks or porches when covered by a roof.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance (measured from the average natural
grade level) to the average height of the highest roof surface. As provided for
in §
153.076, building height does not apply to portions of buildings extending
above the general roof line and comprising an aggregate area not greater than
25% of the total roof area, or to structures other than buildings.
   BUILDING PERMIT. A permit required for the erection, construction,
modification, addition to or moving of any building, structure or use in the
incorporated areas of the town, pursuant to building codes adopted by the Town
Council.
   CARPORT. An open porch used solely for the parking of motor vehicles and
containing no enclosing walls, screen, lattice or other material other than the
wall or walls of the building to which it attaches, or other than a storage
room (where the side adjoining the lot boundary does not exceed six feet).
   CEMETERY. A burial ground for human remains.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Person or any deputy specialists charged with
investigation and enforcement of these and other related regulations in the
town. The Zoning Administrator as appointed by the Town Council assumes the
title of Code Enforcement Officer in accordance with A.R.S. § 9-462 and may
assign these duties to the Building Inspector or other designate.
   COMMISSION. Planning and Zoning Commission of the Town of Dewey-Humboldt,
Arizona.
   COMMUNITY BUILDING. See BUILDING.
   CONTIGUOUS. In actual contact.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Dewey-Humboldt.
   COURT. Any space (other than a yard) on the same lot with a building or
group of buildings which is unobstructed and open to the sky from and above the
floor level of any room having a window or door opening on such court. The
width of a COURT shall be its least horizontal dimension.
   CUSTOM. Pertaining to work, service or assembly done to order for individual
customers for their own use or convenience.
   DEAD STORAGE.  Goods not in use and not associated with any office, retail
or other business use on premises in a self-storage facility or structure.
   DECK.  An exterior floor system supported on at least two opposing sides by
an adjoining structure and/or posts, piers, or other independent supports
without a roof.
   DETACHED BUILDING. See BUILDING.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN. See SIGN. 
   DISTRICT. Refers to either a use district, a density district or a
combination of both such districts.
   DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT. Any establishment where food or beverages are dispensed
through openings in the building or by service to customers in a vehicle.
   DRIVE-IN THEATER. An open-air theater where the performance is viewed by all
or part of the audience from motor vehicles.
   DWELLING. A building containing one dwelling unit with an adequate approved
sanitary sewage disposal system.
   DWELLING (MULTIPLE). A building containing two or more dwelling units.
   DWELLING UNIT. A room (or group of rooms) designed for one or more persons
living and cooking as one homogeneous body (see FAMILY) and containing one
accommodation for preparation of meals. A DWELLING UNIT does not include
lodging as defined in this chapter.
   DWELLING UNIT, ACCESSORY. A separate detached dwelling unit on the same
single- family lot as the primary dwelling unit that may be used as a  separate
additional living unit and may include separate kitchen, sleeping, and bathroom
facilities.
   EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION. Any institution (including charter schools)
established for the purposes of offering instruction acceptable to the
educational authorities within the school district of jurisdiction in several
branches of learning and study to pupils in programs for preschool children
with disabilities, kindergarten programs or any combination of grades one
through 12 but not including stand-alone business colleges, riding academies or
trade, art, music, dancing, nursery or vocational schools. Can include an
elementary school, high school, college, university or similar facility.
   FAMILY/NON-FAMILY GROUPS.
      (1)   An individual, or two or more persons related by blood, marriage or
adoption, or other legal relationship including any live-in domestic help,
living together as a single housekeeping unit in a dwelling unit; or
      (2)   A group of not more than eight persons who need not be related but
function as a family customarily living together as a single housekeeping unit
in a dwelling unit; this includes a residential facility duly licensed by the
state for the developmentally disabled, family foster home, adult foster care
or similar residential facility.
   FARM ANIMALS. Animals other than household pets that shall, where permitted,
be permitted to be kept and maintained for commercial production and sale and/
or family food production, education or recreation. FARM ANIMALS are identified
as being, e.g., horses, cattle, sheep, goats, rabbits, chinchillas, chickens,
turkeys, pheasants, geese, ducks, pigeons, llamas and alpacas. See also §
153.066(E) and (F).
   FENCE. A barrier constructed of materials such as solid wood slats and chain
link. Pipe rail and barbed wire are permitted in residential zones, only. If a
multi-strand barbed wire fence is used, the bottom strand must be of smooth
wire, only. Barriers constructed with materials not designed for fencing are
not included in this definition of a FENCE.
   FLOOR AREA. See BUILDING FLOOR AREA.
   FREIGHT STATION. A facility for loading, unloading and warehousing of
freight.
   FREIGHT TERMINAL. A facility for loading and unloading of freight for
current distribution but not warehousing.
   GARAGE (PRIVATE). An accessory building occupied primarily by the passenger
motor vehicles of the families residing on the same lot.
   GARAGE (PUBLIC). Any building, other than that defined as a private garage,
used for the storage or care of motor vehicles, or where any such vehicles are
equipped for operation, repaired or kept for remuneration, hire or sale.
   GRADE (ADJACENT NATURAL GROUND ELEVATION).  The lowest point of elevation of
the natural surface of the ground, within the area between the building and a
line five feet from the building.
   GUESTROOM.  One or more rooms intended for occupancy overnight (or longer)
by other than members of the family. If it contains cooking facilities it is
deemed a dwelling unit.
   HANDICAPPED PERSON. A handicapped person is a "person with a disability", as
that term is defined in the Americans with Disabilities Act and includes (1)
individuals with a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one
or more major life activities; (2) individuals who are regarded as having such
an impairment; and (3) individuals with a record of such an impairment.
   HOME OCCUPATION.  A use within a primary dwelling or in an attached or
detached structure carried on by residents thereof for gain, which use is
merely incidental to the residential use and does not change the character
thereof by display or otherwise.
   HOSPITAL.  A place for the treatment or care of human ailments, and, unless
otherwise specified, the term shall include sanitarium, clinic, maternity home,
rest home, convalescent home and similar.
   HOTEL.  A building other than a boarding house, which building contains more
than five guestrooms and where entrance to the sleeping rooms or apartments is
from a common entrance or lobby used primarily for lodging on a daily or weekly
basis. For density formula purposes, two such guestrooms may be counted as one
dwelling unit.
   HOTEL (APARTMENT). A building or group of buildings containing a number of
independent suites of rooms for dwelling purposes and in which at least one
common dining room is provided. For density formula purposes, each two
guestrooms may be counted as one dwelling unit.
   INSPECTOR. See CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   INTERIOR LOT.  See LOT.
   JUNK YARD. See YARD.
   KEY LOT.  See LOT.
   KINDERGARTEN. Same as NURSERY SCHOOL, except when operated in conjunction
with a school of general instruction and having accredited instruction.
   LAND DISPOSAL (OF SOLID WASTE). The placement of solid waste in or on land,
excluding manure generated on the property, as regulated by state and local
jurisdictions.
   LAUNDRY (SELF-HELP). A building in which domestic-type washing machines and/
or dryers are provided on a rental basis for use by individuals doing their own
laundry.
   LODGING. The rental, lease or sale of a dwelling unit on a daily or weekly
basis or any other basis for less than 30 consecutive days.
   LOT. A parcel of land, or two or more parcels, to be used as a unit and
having its principal frontage on a dedicated street or street easement. Where a
half-street has been dedicated from such parcel, that shall be qualification
for street frontage.
   LOT (CORNER).  A lot abutting on two or more intersecting or intercepting
streets where the angle of intersection does not exceed 135 degrees. A CORNER
LOT shall be considered to be in that block on which the lot fronts.
   LOT DEPTH. The shortest distance between the mid-point of each of the front
and rear lot lines. Width determined similarly (see example).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dabe9726ae38701612cdb69c32e218ccf7d4b064/
IMAGES/0-0-0-695.jpg]
 
   LOT (INTERIOR). Lots having no side lot line abutting on a street.
   LOT (KEY). An interior lot contiguous to the rear line of a corner lot and
fronting on the side street of such corner lot.
   LOT LINE (FRONT).  The part abutting a street. The front line of a corner
lot shall be the shorter of the two street lines as originally platted, or if
such are equal, the most obvious front by reason of usage by adjacent lots. The
front line of a through lot shall be that line which is obviously the front by
reason of usage by adjacent lots. Such a lot exceeding 188 feet in depth may be
considered as having two front lines.
   LOT LINE (REAR). The lot line opposite the front line. Where the side lines
of the lot meet in a point, the rear line shall be considered parallel to the
front line or a tangent of the mid-point of a curved front line and lying ten
feet within the lot.
   LOT LINE (SIDE).  Those property lines connecting the front and rear
property lines.
   LOT (THROUGH). A lot in which both the front and rear line abut on a street.
   MAINTAIN.  The replacing or renovating of a part (or parts) of a structure,
which has been made unusable by ordinary wear or tear, or by the weather.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure manufactured after June 15, 1976, and placed
within applicable zoning districts, transportable in one or more sections
which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width and 40 body
feet or more in length, and when erected on-site, is 320 square feet or more in
size, and which is built on permanent chassis and designed to be used as a
dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities, and includes the typical plumbing, heating, air conditioning
electrical systems and adequate sanitary sewage disposal system approved,
installed and operational. Calculations used to determine the number of square
feet in a MANUFACTURED HOME will be based on the exterior dimensions measured
at the largest horizontal projections when erected on-site. These dimensions
will include all expandable rooms, cabinets and other projections containing
interior space, but do not include bay windows. The term MANUFACTURED HOME does
not include recreational vehicles, travel trailers, factory built buildings,
multi-sectional manufactured homes or mobile homes.
   MANUFACTURED HOME, MULTI- SECTIONAL. A multi-sectional manufactured home not
exceeding two stories in height and manufactured after June 15, 1976, to
standards established by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
(HUD) that when joined forms a residence for human occupancy that measures 16
feet by 40 feet or larger and which is designed and required to be placed on a
permanent foundation system when located on an individual lot of record. A
MULTI-SECTIONAL MANUFACTURED HOME shall have roofing and siding materials
similar in appearance and kind to those used in site built homes, and be
connected to the required utilities, including the typical plumbing, heating,
air conditioning electrical systems and adequate sewage disposal systems
approved, installed and operational. The term MULTI-SECTIONAL MANUFACTURED HOME
does not include manufactured homes, mobile homes, recreational vehicles,
factory built buildings or travel trailers.
   MEMORIAL PARK CEMETERY. See CEMETERY.
   MOBILE HOME.  A dwelling unit built prior to June 15, 1976, on a permanent
chassis, capable of being transported in one or more sections and designed to
be used with or without a permanent foundation as a dwelling and placed within
applicable zoning use districts when connected to on-site utilities including
an adequate sanitary sewage disposal system approved, installed and
operational. The term MOBILE HOME does not include recreational vehicles,
travel trailers, manufactured homes, multi-sectional manufactured homes or
factory-built buildings. MOBILE HOMES can no longer be installed in the town
except in mobile home parks.
   MOBILE HOME (MANUFACTURED HOME) COURT. A parcel of land used (or designed)
for the location of more than one mobile home or manufactured home for the
purposes of rental or multiple family usage. Installation/units to comply with
A.R.S. §§ 41-2154 and 41-2155.
   MOTEL. A building or group of buildings containing guestrooms or dwelling
units, each of which maintains a separate outside entrance used primarily for
lodging on a daily or weekly basis for the accommodation of automobile
travelers and providing automobile parking space on the premises. For density
formula purposes, two such guestrooms may be counted as one dwelling unit.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING.  See DWELLING.
   NEWSPAPER OF GENERAL CIRCULATION.  A daily newspaper (if one is published)
or, if no daily newspaper is published, a weekly newspaper may be used.
   NONCONFORMING USE. See USE.
   NURSERY SCHOOL.  See SCHOOL.
   PETS (HOUSEHOLD). Dogs, cats, rabbits, birds, pot-belly pigs and the like
(and other small animals under 100 pounds), for family use only (noncommercial)
with cages, pens and the like.
   PORCH (OPEN).  A porch in which any portion extending into a front or side
yard shall have no enclosure by walls, screens, lattice or other material
higher than 54 inches above the natural grade line adjacent thereto; which
porch is to be used solely for ingress and egress and not for occupancy as a
sleeping porch or wash room.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. See BUILDING.
   PRIVATE GARAGE. See GARAGE (PRIVATE).
   PRIVATE USE. See USE.
   PROFESSIONAL USE.  See USE.
   PUBLIC GARAGE.  See GARAGE.
   PUBLIC USE. See USE.
   REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION. A change, exception, or adjustment to a rule,
policy, practice, or service that may be necessary for a handicapped person to
have an equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling, including public and
common use spaces.
   RESIDENT CAMP SLEEPING UNITS. A building or group of buildings containing
guestrooms or dwelling units. For density formula purposes, two such
guestrooms, RVs or tents may be counted as one dwelling unit. Each four beds
shall be counted as one guestroom.
   RESIDENT CAMPING. A sustained experience which provides a creative
recreational, educational or  religious opportunity in group living in the out-
of- doors in which campers live at a site for one or more consecutive nights,
not to exceed 90 days.
   RESIDENTIAL USE. See USE.
   RESTAURANT.  An establishment (other than a boarding house) where meals that
may be procured by the public are prepared.
   REST HOME. Same as HOSPITAL.
   ROOMING HOUSE. A dwelling, otherwise permitted in the district in which it
is situated, containing five or fewer guestrooms and in which food may or may
not be served to the occupants thereof. Any dwelling in which more than five
rooms are occupied as guestrooms shall be deemed to be a hotel.
   SALES OFFICE, TEMPORARY. Real estate sales facility for on-site sales only
within an approved subdivision.
   SCHOOL (NURSERY). An institution intended primarily for the daytime care of
children of pre-school age. Even though some instruction may be offered in
connection with such care, the institution shall not be considered a SCHOOL
within the meaning of this chapter.
   SELF-HELP LAUNDRY. See LAUNDRY.
   SELF-SERVICE STORAGE FACILITIES. Any multi-unit facility designated or used
for the purpose of providing individual, compartmentalized and controlled
access stalls or lockers for the dead storage of customers' goods and wares as
specified in §
153.089.
   SIGN. Any identification, description, illustration, symbol or device which
is affixed directly or indirectly upon a building, vehicle, structure or land
and which conveys information identifying or directing attention to or
advertising a product, place, activity, person, institution or business.
   SLEEPING ROOM. A room, other than a guestroom, in which no cooking
facilities are provided.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, trash, rubbish, waste tire, refuse, sludge from a
waste treatment plant, water supply treatment plant or pollution control
facility and other discarded material, including solid, liquid, semisolid or
contained gaseous material.
   SOLID WASTE LANDFILL. A facility, area of land or excavation in which solid
wastes are placed for permanent disposal.
   STEEL STORAGE CONTAINER. A steel structure sometimes referred to as a cargo
container, which is independent of any trailer or axles, and is commercially
produced and designed for the purposes of storage of personal or commercial
belongings/ products. Does not include tractor-trailers, boxcars, freight
containers or commercial trailers.
   STORY. That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the next floor above it, or if there is no floor above it,
then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it. A basement, the
ceiling of which is less than four feet six inches above the natural grade
level, shall not be considered a floor. A mezzanine floor shall be considered a
STORY if it exceeds an area of 40% of the area of the floor next below it.
   STREET. A public passageway that affords a principal means of access to
abutting property.
   STRUCTURE.  The result of arranging materials and parts together and
attached to a lot (such as buildings, tanks and fences), but not including
tents or vehicles.
   TIMESHARE. A project or use where a purchaser receives the right in
perpetuity, for life or a term of years to the recurrent, exclusive use or
occupancy of a lot, parcel unit or segment or property, annually or on some
periodic basis, for a period of time that has been or will be allotted from the
use or occupancy periods into which the project has been divided.
   TOWN COUNCIL. Council of the Town of Dewey-Humboldt.
   TRAILER PARK. Same as MOBILE HOME COURT.
   TRAILER (PARK MODEL).  A park trailer built on a single chassis, mounted on
wheels and designed to be connected to utilities necessary for operation of
installed fixtures and appliances and has a gross trailer area of not less than
320 square feet and not more than 400 square feet when it is set up, except
that it does not include fifth-wheel trailers. Allowed in mobile home/
manufactured home and RV parks.
   TRAILER (TRAVEL). A travel trailer mounted on wheels, designed to provide
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping or travel use, of a size or
weight that may or may not require special highway movement permits when towed
by a motorized vehicle and has a trailer area of less than 320 square feet.
This definition includes fifth-wheel trailers and other like recreational
vehicles (see also VEHICLE (RECREATIONAL)).
   USE. The purpose for which a building, lot or structure is arranged,
designed, occupied or maintained.
   USE (ACCESSORY).  A use incidental to the principal or primary use on the
same lot.
   USE (LEGAL NONCONFORMING). A use that lawfully occupied a building or land
at the time this Code or amendments thereto became effective, which has been
lawfully continued and which does not now conform with the use regulations.
   USE (PERMITTED).  A use in a district, which is allowed by reason of being
listed among the PERMITTED USES in the district.
   USE (PRIMARY). A use that is conducted as the principal use of the lot on
which it is situated. For example a single family dwelling unit shall be deemed
to be the PRIMARY USE on a residentially zoned parcel or lot on which the unit
is situated.
   USE (PRIVATE). A use restricted to the occupants of a lot or building
together with their guests, where compensation is not received and where no
commercial activity is associated with same.
   USE (PROFESSIONAL).  The rendering of services of a professional nature by
members of the professions licensed by competent authority; teachers in a
school of general instruction; artists practicing the fine arts; or consultants
recognized by organizations of licensed professions.
   USE (PUBLIC). A use (or building) located on public land to serve public
benefits (but not necessarily available to the public admission).
   USE (RESIDENTIAL). Shall be deemed to include single and multiple dwelling
units, guestrooms, rooming and boarding houses, fraternity and sorority houses,
convents, homes for the aged and similar.
   VEHICLE. The result of arranging materials and parts together for conveyance
over roads (whether or not self propelled). Such is not deemed a structure in
qualifying for a building permit, but as being accessory to the principal use
on a lot (except in connection with vehicular rental or sales agencies and
mobile home courts).
   VEHICLE (JUNK).  A vehicle that is in such a state of deterioration that it
cannot be profitably dismantled or salvaged for parts and cannot be profitably
restored (from A.R.S. § 28-4881).
   VEHICLE (PRIVATELY OWNED). A vehicle used for private purposes that does not
exceed a seven-ton capacity.
   VEHICLE (RECREATIONAL).  A motor vehicle that is designed and customarily
used for private pleasure, including vehicles commonly called motor homes,
pickup trucks with campers and pickup trucks with a fifth wheel trailing device
(see also TRAILER (TRAVEL)).
   WALL. A barrier constructed of materials such as solid block, native stone
and rock or wood stucco. Barriers constructed with materials not designed for
walls are not included in this definition of a wall.
   WRECKING YARD. See YARD (WRECKING).
   YARD. A required space of uniform width adjacent to the perimeter of a lot,
the interior boundary of which is measured as a minimum horizontal distance to
the required setback of a principal structure from a lot boundary; or from any
future width line.
   YARD (FRONT).  A yard abutting the front street.
   YARD (JUNK). An open-land area or portion thereof (exclusive of an area not
exceeding the provisions of §
153.086) used for storage, keeping, sale or abandonment of junk (including
scrap material, disabled vehicles or used vehicular parts).
   YARD (REAR). A yard abutting the rear lot line or alley.
   YARD (SIDE). A yard abutting a side street (exterior side yard) or a common
side boundary (interior side yard), lying between required front and rear
yards.
   YARD (WRECKING). An open-land area used for dismantling or demolition of
motor vehicles, machinery, equipment or similar and usually the storage
thereof.
   ZONING AREA.  The area within 300 feet of the proposed amendment or change.
   ZONING CLEARANCE. The approval or authorization by the Zoning Administrator
indicating that a proposed building, structure or use of land meets all the
standards contained in this chapter.
   ZONING DISTRICT. A zoned area in which the same zoning regulations apply
throughout.
(Ord. 08-44 § 301, passed 10-21-2008; Am. Ord. 09-50, passed 4-21-2009; Am.
Ord. 15-110, passed 4-7-2015; Am. Ord. 16-123, passed 1-19-2016; Am. Ord. 22-
187, passed 11-1-2022)
ADMINISTRATION; ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.015 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   All of the town shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter;
provided, however, that there shall be exempt from these provisions the
following:
   (A)   Other publicly owned and operated facilities used for essential
government purposes; and
   (B)   The use or occupation of land or improvements for railroad, mining,
metallurgical, grazing, agricultural composting or general agricultural
purposes, if the property concerned is not less than five contiguous commercial
acres. An agricultural composting operation shall notify in writing the Zoning
Administrator and the nearest fire department of the location of the composting
operation. This exemption shall not be construed to include commercial feedlots
and other allied commercial or industrial uses, nor shall this exemption apply
to commercial retail attached to one of the above exempted uses (i.e.,
commercial roadside agriculture sales). Nothing in this chapter is intended or
will be effective to regulate land uses where such land use regulation has been
preempted by state or federal regulation.
(Ord. 08-44 § 201, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 153.016 NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The lawful use of any building, structure or land existing at the time of
the effective date of this chapter may be continued, although such use does not
conform to the provisions hereof.
   (A)   Discontinuance. If a nonconforming use shall be discontinued on a
continuous basis for a period of 12 months, except as noted for dwelling units,
any subsequent use shall conform to the provisions of this chapter. If the use
of a dwelling unit as nonconforming lodging is discontinued on a continuous
basis for a period of 30 days, the use shall conform to the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Wear and tear. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the
reconstruction, repairing and continued use of a nonconforming structure or
part thereof rendered necessary by wear and tear, deterioration or
depreciation.
   (C)   Restoration. Any nonconforming structure or a conforming building
containing a nonconforming use damaged or destroyed by casualty or act of God
may be restored within a 12-month period therefrom without impairment to any
nonconforming status.
   (D)   Change of use. A nonconforming use may not be changed to another use
unless or without complying with the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Expansion. A nonconforming business use may expand if the expansion
does not exceed 50% of the area of the original business. Expansion of a
nonconforming business use, other than within an existing building, requires
compliance with the district requirements for yards, spacing, percent of lot
coverage and all other such regulations. Additional parking area necessitated
by such expansion shall not count against the 50% expansion allowance. Where
such expansion is an open-land use, a solid masonry wall (or other wall, fence
or hedge as may be approved by the Zoning Administrator) must be installed as
protective sight screening between the expanded use and any residential zoned
lot within 200 feet.
   (F)   Mixed uses. Nonconforming and conforming uses and structures may be
included on the same lot within limits of the district regulations for
conforming uses and structures.
   (G)   Special consideration of qualified non-conforming parcels. A non-
conforming parcel is a parcel that fails to meet the minimum requirements (such
as area, width or length) as prescribed by its overlying zoning use district.
Development of such parcels may be considered provided that an individual
parcel qualifies and is subject to the following criteria:
      (1)   A non-conforming parcel that meets the following criteria is a
Qualified Non-Conforming Parcel and may be developed as nearly as possible in
conformance with the overlying zoning district:
         (a)   Was legally created in full conformance with the zoning in place
at the time of parcel creation;
         (b)   Has adequate and properly documented access for ingress and
egress;
         (c)   Meets building setbacks of the overlying zoning district; and
         (d)   Meets all Town's building code requirements (Town Code
Chapter 150).
      (2)   Following the initial construction and development as above of a
Qualified Non-Conforming Parcel, the parcel will thereafter be considered a
legal non-conforming use.
(Ord. 08-44 § 202, passed 10-21-2008; Am. Ord. 10-65, passed 3-16-2010)
§ 153.017 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   In conformity with the purpose and effect of this chapter, use districts and
density districts are hereby established in order to classify, regulate,
restrict and separate the following: uses of land and structures; lot
dimensions and areas; yard widths and depths; percent of lot coverage and open
spaces; density formulas; height and bulk of structures, and the like. These
districts are designed to be used in combinations and as such are hereby
referred to as a ZONING DISTRICT. Any reference to a USE shall be deemed to
include “principal and accessory uses and structures.”
(Ord. 08-44 § 203, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 153.018 ZONING MAP.
   Any map officially adopted delineating the locations and boundaries of the
various "use" and "density" districts within any portion of the incorporated
area of jurisdiction, together with subsequent supplementary maps, shall be
known collectively as the Zoning Map for the Town of Dewey-Humboldt, Arizona
and becomes an official record, as part of this chapter, as if the matters and
information set forth by the map were fully described in this chapter. Where a
use district has been adopted but not combined with a specific density
district, then the provisions of Density District 2A (§
153.069) shall govern. Until such a time as an official Zoning Map is adopted,
all of the incorporated portion of the town is hereby deemed to be zoned RCU (§
153.039) the same as though that zone were shown on an official map.
   (A)   District boundary determination. The district boundaries on the map
are intended to follow lot lines, subdivision lines, section lines or
centerlines of streets, alleys or other rights-of-way (or extensions thereof)
as they existed at the time of the enactment of the Map, except where
referenced by dimensions thereon. Uncertainty of location of a district
boundary shall be determined by the Town Council unless same can be resolved to
the satisfaction of the Zoning Administrator and persons of interest by using
the scale of the map. Where such boundary scales to within 25 feet of a common
division line or a right-of-way, then it shall be deemed as following the
division line or the center of the right-of-way, as the case may be.
   (B)   Abandoned rights-of-way. Where a public street or alley or other
right-of-way is officially abandoned, the abutting district boundaries shall
automatically extend to the centerline thereof.
(Ord. 08-44 § 204, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 153.019 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Zoning Administrator. 
      (1)   For reference, this title equates to Zoning Administrator as
mandated in A.R.S. § 9-462.05.
      (2)   For the purpose of enforcement of the provisions of this chapter,
there is hereby created the position of Zoning Administrator and such deputy
specialists as may be required, who shall be appointed by the Town Council. The
Zoning Administrator shall administer and enforce this chapter, including the
receiving of applications, the inspection of premises, and the issuing of
permits. No building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be issued, except
where the provisions of this chapter have been complied with.
   (B)   Zoning inspection.
      (1)   Responsibility.  The Code Enforcement Officer is responsible for
investigating all complaints of suspected violations of this chapter and other
applicable codes within the town's jurisdiction.
      (2)   Inspection. With proper permission from the property owner or his
or her agent, the Code Enforcement Officer may, in the discharge of his or her
duties, and for good and probable cause, enter private property during assigned
working hours to inspect same in connection with any application made under the
terms of this chapter, or for any investigation as to whether or not any
portion of the property, building or other structure was constructed or is
being used in violation of this chapter. If permission to enter property is
unobtainable, refused or withdrawn, the Inspector shall follow legally
prescribed procedures for seeking a search warrant subject to the protections
provided for rights of the property owner by the State of Arizona and the
United States Constitution.
   (C)   Zoning violation.
      (1)   The erection, construction or alteration of any structure or the
use of any property or structure, not in conformance with this chapter
constitutes a violation.
      (2)   Violations of this chapter are subject to civil penalties or other
legal action per §§
153.020 and
153.999 of this code for failure to comply with any provision of this chapter.
   (D)   Zoning violation hearing.
      (1)   The Hearing Officer may hear and decide complaints alleging
violations of this chapter, as authorized by A.R.S. § 9-462.04.
      (2)   The form and service of complaints, and the hearing procedures of
the Hearing Officer, shall follow the zoning enforcement Rules of Procedure
adopted by the Town Council.
      (3)   If the Hearing Officer determines a zoning violation exists, civil
penalties may be imposed by the Officer in accordance with §
153.999. Imposition of civil penalties listed in §
153.020 shall not preclude persons from pursuing remedies provided for in §
153.020.
   (E)   Hearing Officer.
      (1)   Scope. The Hearing Officer hears and decides zoning violations, as
authorized by A.R.S. §§ 9-462 et seq.
      (2)   Powers and duties. The Hearing Officer performs the following
duties. Refer also to division (D) of this section.
         (a)   The Hearing Officer hears and decides complaints alleging civil
violations of this chapter.
         (b)   The Hearing Officer administers oaths.
         (c)   The Hearing Officer issues subpoenas and summonses ordering
appearance before the Hearing Officer.
         (d)   The Hearing Officer makes any other order necessary for the
determination and resolution of zoning violations.
      (3)   Appeals.
         (a)   The decision of the Hearing Officer may be appealed to the Board
of Adjustments.
         (b)   The decision of the Board of Adjustments may be appealed to the
Superior Court in accordance with A.R.S. §§ 12-901 et seq.
      (4)   Appointment.  The Hearing Officer shall be appointed by the Town
Council.
      (5)   Qualifications.
         (a)   The Hearing Officer shall have training, experience or
familiarity with administrative hearings and this chapter.
         (b)   The Hearing Officer may be an employee of the town, except that
the Hearing Officer shall not be a Code Enforcement Officer.
      (6)   Annual review. The Town Council shall conduct an annual review of
the Hearing Officer.
      (7)   Removal. The Town Council has the authority to remove the Hearing
Officer, by majority vote, for neglect of duty, inefficiency or misconduct in
office.
      (8)   Transaction of business. The Hearing Officer shall follow the
procedures set forth in the zoning enforcement Rules of Procedures, as adopted
and amended by resolution.
   (F)   Zoning Administrator authority. The purpose of this division (F) is to
grant authority to the Zoning Administrator to take action on requests for
minor modifications or adjustments to certain requirements of this chapter,
when such requests constitute a reasonable use of property not permissible
under a strict literal interpretation of this chapter.
      (1)   Adjustments. For the purpose of administering this division, an
adjustment in any variance to the terms or requirements of this chapter, which,
if granted, would allow the following:
         (a)   A decrease of not more than 2% of the required minimum lot area;
         (b)   A decrease of not more than 5% of the required minimum lot area
per dwelling;
         (c)   A decrease of not more than 10% of the required minimum lot
width and/or depth;
         (d)   A decrease of not more than 20% of the required width of a side
yard or the required building separation;
         (e)   A decrease of not more than 20% of the required front or rear
yard;
         (f)   An increase of not more than 20% of the permitted height of a
fence or wall;
         (g)   An increase of not more than 10% of the permitted projection of
steps, stairways, landings, eaves, overhangs, masonry chimneys and fireplaces
into any required front, rear or side setback;
         (h)   An increase of not more than 10% of the permitted height or
areas of signs as required by the Sign Code, §§
153.125 through
153.130;
         (i)   An increase of not more than 10% in the maximum allowable lot
coverage; and
         (j)   An increase of not more than 10% in the permitted height of
buildings.
         (k)   The Zoning Administrator may take requests from existing utility
companies or by existing non-profit community service organizations for minor
adjustments to the terms and requirements of this section for flexibility of
setbacks, lot sizes, areas, heights and similar minor variances, when additions
or new facilities are needed to better protect and serve the residents and
businesses of the Town. “Existing” refers to those utilities and non-profit
community-service organizations that are in existence within the Town’s
jurisdiction as of January 15, 2010. The Zoning Administrator may only consider
requests for minor adjustments as follows:
            1.   A request may be considered from an existing utility company
or district that serves existing properties within the town, and such request
is based on the need to provide for improved service and/or safety to residents
and businesses in the town;
            2.   A request may be considered from an existing non-profit
community service organization that provides the community with services
typical of those that local government may provide, such as community/activity
center, recreational facilities, library, and the like;
            3.   A request may be considered for the on-site placement of
additional equipment, fences/walls, lighting or identification sign, or for
small expansions of buildings or facilities;
            4.   A request for a major building or facility expansion, or for a
new building or facility on undeveloped property, may not be considered for a
minor adjustment; such request shall be filed for variance through the Board of
Adjustment procedures as specified in this section;
            5.   An approval of a minor adjustment is conditional approval
granted for the applicant and the community service or utility it provides; if
such community service or utility ceases, such conditional approval shall be
terminated.
            6.   In addition to the requirements for an application for
adjustment in division (F)(2) an applicant shall provide the Zoning
Administrator with a list of names and addresses of adjacent property owners,
and with two sets of stamped envelopes so addressed for notification prior to
and subsequent to the findings and decision of the Zoning Administrator on the
applicant’s request. The Zoning Administrator shall also transmit notification
to the Town Council prior to and subsequent to the findings and decision. The
Zoning Administrator shall include information regarding appeals division (F)
(6) of said decision with the notice sent to adjoining property owners, and
posted on the applicant’s property, subsequent to the decision.
            7.   Additional development plans such as elevations of structures,
landscaping and screening, and evidence of applicant ability and intention to
proceed with actual construction (i.e., construction commencement and
completion schedule, bonding for completion of work including additional paving
or dust control, screening) and other amenities as deemed necessary by the
Zoning Administrator from the concerns of adjacent property owners may be
required.
            8.   Compliance with all other provisions of the Town Code (e.g.,
Dark Sky Ordinance and building codes) is required.
      (2)   Applications. Application for an adjustment shall be filed with the
Zoning Administrator and shall include the following:
         (a)   Statement as to the nature of the request;
         (b)   Legal description;
         (c)   Signatures of the property owner(s) of record or the authorized
agent of the owner(s);
         (d)   A letter of authorization, if the property owner is represented
by an agent;
         (e)   A site plan of the subject property showing existing and
proposed structures, access, parking, and distances from structures to property
lines and to other structures;
         (f)   Written permission to enter the property;
         (g)   Any other information reasonably necessary to evaluate the
application, which is required by the Zoning Administrator or his or her
designee; and
         (h)   Name and mailing address of adjacent affected property owner(s).
Notification ofthe request will be sent to the adjacent affected property owner
(s) for their information and comment.
      (3)   Findings.  In granting an adjustment, the Zoning Administrator
shall make findings of fact as provided for in divisions (C) and (D) of this
section, which establish the criteria for granting a variance.
      (4)   Site area; additional findings. In order to grant approval of an
administrative adjustment allowing a reduction in minimum lot area or parcel
size, the Zoning Administrator must make the following additional findings:
         (a)   That the property cannot otherwise meet the minimum lot area
requirement of its current zoning classification; and
         (b)   If a requested reduction of minimum lot area is or would result
in a decrease of area greater than 2% of the requirement set by theappropriate
density district, the applicant shall request a Zoning Map change in accordance
with §
153.022 in order to further reduce the minimum lot area requirement.
      (5)   Fees. A processing fee shall be submitted in association with a
minor administrative variance application. Upon receipt of an appeal, as set
out under division (F)(6) below, a fee equal to a standard variance application
shall be necessary to cause the matter to be presented to the Board of
Adjustment. Any fee submitted for the minor administrative variance application
shall be applicable to the standard variance application.
      (6)   Appeals.  If the Zoning Administrator denies an application for an
adjustment or, if the applicant disagrees with the conditions imposed on the
granting of an adjustment, if any, the applicant may file for a variance in
accordance with this section.
(Ord. 08-44 § 205, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 153.020 REMEDIES.
   (A)   All remedies provided in this chapter shall be cumulative and not
exclusive.
   (B)   The imposition of penalties on any person under this chapter shall not
relieve the person from the responsibility of correcting prohibited conditions
or removing prohibited structures or improvements, and shall not prevent the
enforced correction or removal of such violations.
   (C)   If any structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered,
maintained or used, or any land is used, in violation of this chapter, the Town
Council, the Town Attorney or the Zoning Administrator may institute
injunction, mandamus (court order), abatement or any other appropriate legal
action or proceedings to prevent, abate or remove the violation.
   (D)   (1)   It is unlawful to erect, construct, reconstruct, alter or use
any building or other structure within any area subject to the provisions of
this chapter without first obtaining a building permit zoning approval from the
Building Department and/or Zoning Administrator, where such permit is required
thereby.
      (2)   The conviction of any person, firm or corporation hereunder shall
not relieve the person from the responsibility to correct the violation, nor
prevent the enforcement, correction or removal thereof.
      (3)   Any fees authorized by the Town Council shall be doubled for
failure to apply prior to commencing construction or sale of lots.
(Ord. 08-44 § 206(C), passed 10-21-2008)
§ 153.021 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT; ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Board of Adjustment of the Town of Dewey-Humboldt (the “Board”) is
established pursuant to A.R.S. § 9-462.06.
   (A)   Structure. The Town Council shall appoint a Board of Adjustment of the
town. The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five members appointed by the
Council. Initially two members shall be appointed for two year terms and three
members shall be appointed for four year terms. Thereafter, all appointments
shall be for four year terms.
   (B)   Procedure.  Meetings of the Board shall be open to the public and held
at the call of the Chairperson. The Board shall adopt rules to govern its
proceedings not inconsistent with this chapter and the laws of Arizona. At the
next meeting after appointments to the Board are made by the Council pursuant
to division (A), the Board shall elect a Chairperson from among its members,
who shall serve a two year term. The Chairperson shall be the executive officer
of the Board with the power of administering oaths and taking evidence, and
shall preside over its meetings and hearings. The minutes and records of all
Board proceedings shall be kept as required by A.R.S. § 38-431.01, and filed as
public records in the office of the Town Clerk.
   (C)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Board has the following powers and duties:
         (a)   Hear and decide appeals from a decision, determination or
interpretation made by the Zoning Administrator, in which it is alleged there
is an error in an order, requirement or decision made by the Zoning
Administrator in the enforcement of a zoning ordinance;
         (b)   Hear and decide appeals for variances from the terms of the
zoning ordinance only if, because of special circumstances applicable to the
property, including its size, shape, topography, location, or surroundings, the
strict application of the zoning ordinance will deprive such property of
privileges enjoyed by other property of the same classification in the same
zoning district. Any variance granted shall be subject to such conditions as
will assure that the adjustment authorized shall not constitute a grant of
special privileges inconsistent with the limitations upon other properties in
the vicinity and zone in which such property is located;
         (c)   Hear and decide appeals from division of the Hearing Officer
pursuant to §
153.019(D) and (E);
         (d)   Hear and decide appeals from decisions of the Zoning
Administrator in requests for adjustments as set forth in division (D) below;
         (e)   Reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or modify the order or
decision appealed from and make such order or decision as ought to be made; and
         (f)   Interpret this chapter when the meaning of any word, phrase, or
section is in doubt, or where doubt exists as to the proper district of a
specific use.
      (2)   The Board shall not:
         (a)   Make any changes in the uses permitted in any zoning
classification or district;
         (b)   Make any changes in the zoning ordinance; or
         (c)   Grant a variance if the special circumstances applicable to the
property are self-imposed by the property owner.
   (D)   Hearing applications. Hearing applications shall be filed in writing
in the office of the Zoning Administrator, on forms provided therefor, by any
person or by any officer, department, board or bureau of the town affected by
any order or decision of the Zoning Administrator, within 30 days thereafter,
and specifying the grounds thereof; or for rulings on other matters of Town
Council jurisdiction.
      (1)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in the matter appealed unless
the Zoning Administrator certifies to the Board that, by reason of the fact
stated in his or her approval letter, a stay would (in his or her opinion)
cause imminent peril to life or property. In this case, proceedings shall not
be stayed except by restraining order granted by a court of record on
application and notice to the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   In addition to any other requirements specified, applications for
variances shall, at a minimum, include the following :
         (a)   Evidence showing why, due to special circumstances or conditions
applicable to the property, including its size, shape, topography, location or
surroundings, of the zoning ordinance would deprive the property owner of
privileges enjoyed by other property owners of the same classification in the
same zoning district; and
         (b)   Evidence showing that the variance will not constitute a grant
of special privileges inconsistent with limitations upon other properties in
the vicinity and district in which the property is located; and
         (c)   Evidence that the special circumstances applicable to the
property were or are not self-imposed by the property owner; and
         (d)   Evidence showing why granting the variance substantially meets
the intent and purpose of the zoning district in which the property is located,
and will not detrimentally affect the health or safety of the neighborhood
residents or the public welfare or be injurious to property or improvements.
   (E)   Hearings and rulings. The Board of Adjustment shall hold at least one
public hearing, within a reasonable time from the date of application, after
giving a minimum of 15 days’ notice thereof to parties of interest and the
public, by posting at the property of application (if property is involved) and
by publishing once in a newspaper of general circulation in the town. The Board
of Adjustment shall render a decision within 30 days after the initial hearing
on same, unless an extension is agreed to by the Board and the applicant.
      (1)   In approving an application, in all or in part, the Board of
Adjustment may impose reasonable conditions necessary to achieve the general
purposes and objectives of this chapter, and to protect the public health,
safety and general welfare or to ensure operation and maintenance of the use in
a manner compatible with existing and potential uses on adjoining properties or
in the surrounding area. If conditions are violated or not complied with, upon
notice to the property owner by the Zoning Administrator, a hearing shall be
held and, if the violation is sustained, the approval may be revoked.
      (2)   The concurring vote of a majority of a quorum of the members shall
be necessary to render a ruling, unless otherwise required by state law or the
town zoning ordinance.
      (3)   Decisions of the Board of Adjustment may be appealed to the
Superior Court within 30 days of the decision by the Board.
      (4)   Quasi-judicial role; ex parte communications.
         (a)   The Board of Adjustment acts in a quasi-judicial manner and, to
ensure that the decision-making process is fair and impartial, no member of the
Board shall, directly or indirectly, entertain, accept or participate in any ex
parte communication relevant to an application pending before the Board.
         (b)   Ex parte communications are oral or written communications
related to the matter to be heard by the Board and which are made to or by a
member of the Board, including in person, telephonic or electronic
communications that occur outside of a public meeting of the Board.
      (c)   Exceptions. This prohibition shall not apply to communications
between the members of the Board and town staff. This prohibition is not
intended to prevent site visits, the receipt of expert opinions, and the review
of mail and other correspondence relating to the proceedings.
      (d)   If a Board member receives an ex parte communication, the Board
member shall place the communication in the public record or shall enter into
the record a statement describing the time, place and content of the
communication.
(Ord. 08-44, § 207, passed 10-21-2008; Am. Ord. 09-60, passed 12-15-2009; Am.
Ord. 12-92, passed 7-10-2012; Am. Ord. 17-132, passed 1-17-2017; Am. Ord. 17-
133, passed 3-21-2017)
§ 153.022 AMENDMENTS TO CHAPTER.
   The Town Council may, from time to time, following public hearings and
Commission report as prescribed by this chapter, amend, supplement or change
the Zoning Regulations or Map. Any such proposed change may be initiated by the
Commission, the Town Council or by petition and application of property owners.
An application for amendment shall be filed in the office of the Zoning
Administrator on forms provided.
   (A)   District boundary change (rezoning). A property owner or authorized
agent of a property owner desiring an amendment or change in the Zoning
Regulations changing the zoning district boundaries within an area previously
zoned shall file an application for the amendment or change.
   (B)   Zoning regulations change (text). An application for a change in the
regulations (not otherwise addressed by A.R.S. requirements) shall be
accompanied by the written consent of at least ten owners of property in the
town area of jurisdiction.
   (C)   Commission action. Upon receipt of any proposed amendment, the same
shall be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission for a report. Prior to
reporting to the Town Council, the Commission shall hold at least one public
hearing thereon, after giving at least 15 days' notice thereof by publication
(at least once) in a newspaper of general circulation in the county seat, and
by posting the area included in any proposed zoning district change.
      (1)   Prior to noticing for a proposed zoning district change, the
Commission may (on its own motion) delimit a more compatible zoning area (or
require the applicant to).
      (2)   If a proposed amendment is a Commission initiative at the written
request of others, the proposal shall not be noticed prior to receiving the
required fee and charges.
      (3)   In the event an application has been denied, the Commission may
refuse to consider a similar application within 12 months of application date.
      (4)   Failure of the Commission to report to the Town Council within 60
days of date of application shall be deemed to be a neutral report.
   (D)   Town Council action. 
      (1)   Upon receipt of the Planning and Zoning Commission report, the Town
Council shall, within a reasonable time thereafter, hold at least one public
hearing after giving at least 15 days' notice thereof by publication at least
once in a newspaper of general circulation in the county seat and by posting
the area included in any proposed zoning district change. The hearing notice
may be simultaneous with that of the Planning and Zoning Commission or at
anytime thereafter. After the hearing, the Town Council may take appropriate
action.
      (2)   In the event 20% or more of the owners of property by area and
number within the zoning area file a protest to the proposed change, the change
shall not be made except by a three-fourths vote of all members of the Council.
If any members of the Council are unable to vote on the question because of a
conflict of interest, the required number of votes for the passage of the
question is three-fourths of the remaining membership of the Council, except
that the required number of votes in no event shall be less than a majority of
the full membership of the Council.
      (3)   In calculating the owners by area, only that portion of a lot or
parcel of record situated within 300 feet of the property to be rezoned shall
be included. In calculating the owners by number or area, town property and
public rights-of-way shall not be included.
   (E)   Noticing for hearings.
      (1)   Posting and advertising. The Zoning Administrator shall post in no
less than two places with a least one notice for each one-quarter mile of
frontage along perimeter public right-of-way so that notices are visible from
the nearest public right-of-way, and determine the wording of the advertising
so as to be, in his or her judgment, an effective means of noticing the
application hearing.
      (2)   Notice by mail. The Zoning Administrator shall mail notices by
first class mail of the Planning and Zoning Commission hearing, from a list
supplied by the applicant, to each real property owner as shown on the last
assessment of the property within 300 feet of a proposed district boundary
change.
         (a)   The list shall be certified by a title company as current
owners, or certified by the applicant as last owners of record in the County
Assessor's office.
         (b)   The notice sent by mail shall include, at a minimum, the date,
time and place of the hearing on the proposed amendment or change including a
general explanation of the matter to be considered, a general description of
the area of the proposed amendment or change, how the real property owners
within the zoning area may file approvals or protests of the proposed rezoning,
and notification that if 20% of the property owners by area and number within
the zoning area file protests, an affirmation vote of three-fourths of all
members of the Board will be required to approve the rezoning.
(Ord. § 208, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 153.023 CITIZEN PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Citizen participation plan.
      (1)   Every applicant who is proposing a project which requires a public
hearing shall include a citizen participation plan, which shall be implemented
prior to the first public hearing. This process shall be started prior to
submitting a rezoning, general plan major amendment or use permit application.
      (2)   Purpose:
         (a)   Ensure that applicants pursue early and effective citizen
participation in conjunction with their applications, giving them opportunity
to understand and try to mitigate any real or perceived impacts their
application may have on the community;
         (b)   Ensure that the citizens and property owners within the
community have an adequate opportunity to learn about applications that may
affect them and to work with applicants to resolve concerns at an early stage
of the process; and
         (c)   Facilitate ongoing communication between the applicant,
interested citizens and property owners, town staff, Planning Commissioners and
elected officials throughout the application review process.
      (3)   The citizen participation plan is not intended to produce complete
consensus on all applications, but to encourage applicants to be good neighbors
and to allow for informed decision-making.
      (4)   The level of citizen interest and area of involvement will vary
depending on the nature of the application and the location of the site. The
target area for early notification will be determined by the applicant after
consultation with the Zoning Administrator. At a minimum, the target area shall
include the following:
         (a)   Property owners within the public hearing notice area required
by other sections of this chapter;
         (b)   The head of any homeowners' association or community/
neighborhood within at least 1,000 feet radius of the project site, unless a
greater distance is required by other sections of this chapter;
         (c)   Other interested parties who have requested that they be placed
on the interested parties' notification list maintained by the Zoning
Administrator;
         (d)   Those residents, property owners, interested parties, political
jurisdictions and public agencies that may be affected by the application; and
         (e)   The Zoning Administrator may determine that additional notices
or areas be included.
      (5)   At a minimum, the following information regarding the involvement
of the target area must be included:
         (a)   How those interested in and potentially affected by an
application will be notified that an application has been made;
         (b)   How those interested and potentially affected parties will be
informed of the substance of the change, amendment or development proposed by
the application;
         (c)   How those affected or otherwise interested will be provided an
opportunity to discuss the applicant's proposal with the applicant and express
any concerns, issues or problems they may have with the proposal in advance of
the public hearing;
         (d)   The applicant's schedule for completion of the citizen
participation plan; and
         (e)   How the applicant will keep the Zoning Administrator informed on
the status of his or her citizen participation efforts.
      (6)   These requirements are in addition to any notice provisions
required by state statute and the Planning and Zoning Ordinance.
      (7)   Extenuating circumstances may warrant the Zoning Administrator to
cause the applicant to hold additional citizen participation meetings,
including but not limited to:
         (a)   Timeframe between the last meeting and the date of the
submittal; and
         (b)   Any substantial changes that have occurred to the development
proposal since the last citizen participation meetings were held.
   (B)   Citizen participation report.
      (1)   The applicant shall provide a written report on the results of his
or her citizen participation effort prior to the notice of public hearing. This
report will be included in the information provided to the Planning and Zoning
Commission by the Zoning Administrator at the public hearing on the matter.
      (2)   The citizen participation report will include the following
information:
         (a)   Details of techniques the applicant used to involve the public,
including:
            1.   Dates and locations of all meetings where citizens were
invited to discuss the applicant's proposal;
            2.   Content, dates mailed and numbers of mailings, including
letters, meeting notices, newsletters and other publications;
            3.   Where residents, property owners, and interested parties
receiving notices, newsletters or other written materials are located; and
            4.   The number of people that participated in the process.
         (b)   A summary of concerns, issues and problems expressed during the
process, including:
            1.   The substance of the concerns, issues and problems;
            2.   How the applicant has addressed or intends to address
concerns, issues and problems expressed during the process; and
            3.   Concerns, issues and problems the applicant is unwilling or
unable to address and why.
(Ord. 08-44 § 209, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 153.024 REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS.
   (A)   Application. If a handicapped person believes a requirement of the
zoning code prevents him from enjoying the same opportunities for housing as
other persons who are not handicapped, the owner shall submit to the Zoning
Administrator a written request for accommodation and the reasons why the
accommodation is required. The written request shall contain sufficient facts
to allow the Zoning Administrator to make an individualized determination of
the person's needs, to address the town's safety and welfare concerns, and to
assure compliance with this section.
   (B)   Zoning Administrator determination. The Zoning Administrator shall
review the written request and determine:
      (1)   Whether an accommodation should be made pursuant to the
requirements of the federal and state fair housing laws; and
      (2)    If so, the nature of the accommodation.
   (C)   Factors to be considered. In making a decision, the Zoning
Administrator shall consider the requirements of the federal and state fair
housing laws, the Americans with Disabilities Act, public safety and welfare
concerns, and the residential character of the neighborhood. To show that a
requested accommodation may be necessary, there must be an identifiable
relationship, or nexus, between the requested accommodation and the
individual's disability.
   (D)   Extent of accommodation. The accommodation shall be made only to the
extent necessary to comply with the federal and state fair housing laws and the
Americans with Disabilities Act.
(Ord. 16-123, passed 1-19-2016)
USE DISTRICTS
§ 153.035 USE DISTRICTS GENERALLY.
   Those areas of the town subject to the provisions of this chapter are hereby
divided into use districts that together with the general provisions (where
applicable) control the uses and structures, and their manner of installation
and operation in the various town areas.
   (A)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Any use or structure not specifically permitted by district
provisions (or analogous to a permitted use or structure) shall be deemed
prohibited and unlawful (nor shall same be considered an accessory use or
structure for the district).
      (2)   Land disposals, solid waste landfills and any similar storage or
processing-facilities of solid waste are prohibited in all use districts within
the town. This prohibition does not restrict the development of a waste-water
treatment facility for the treatment of waste produced by a development for
business or residential uses, in accordance with regulations of ADEQ/EPA and
other regulatory agencies.
      (3)   Only if the limitations of this division, and other uses
specifically prohibited in specific use districts, are amended or limited by
legislative change or judicial interpretation, then any deviation from the
strict interpretation, application and enforcement of such provisions shall
require application for the issuance of a conditional use permit by the
proposed user and/or property owner, and the approval and issuance of such
conditional use permit by the Town Council. The application for such must
illustrate how external effects shall be mitigated through the term of such use
(air, subterranean, noise, glare and/or aesthetic). Otherwise, no use permit is
available.
   (B)   Zoning Districts. The following comprises the various zoning districts
and their order (from higher to lower) in applying the change of use provisions
of the chapter:
 
R1L District (Residential; Single Family Limited)
RMM District (Residential; Multi-Sectional Manufactured Homes)
R1 District  (Residential; Single Family)
RCU District (Residential; Rural)
R2 District  (Residential; Multi-Family )
RS District  (Residential and Services)
C1 District  (Commercial; Neighborhood Sales and Services)
 
C2 District  (Commercial; General Sales and Services)
C3 District  (Commercial and Minor Industrial)
PM District  (Performance Industrial)
M1 District  (Industrial; General Limited)
M2 District  (Industrial; Heavy)
PAD District (Planned Area Development)
RCD District (Residential Camping District)
OS District  (Open Space Resource Conservation Zone)
Overlay Zones
 
(Ord. 08-44 § 400, passed 10-21-2008; Am. Ord. 09-50, passed 4-21-2009)
§ 153.036 R1L DISTRICT (RESIDENTIAL; SINGLE FAMILY LIMITED)
   Permitted uses for the R1L District (Residential; Single Family Limited to
site built structures only) are as follows in this section.
   (A)   Where no zoning/density district has been combined, then all
provisions of Density District 10 shall prevail (see §
153.069, most common ones shown in chart below).
   (B)   (1)   Dwelling unit (site built) for one family on any one lot;
      (2)   Religious institutions (in permanent site-built buildings);
      (3)   Educational institutions (publicly funded) as defined in §
153.005 under BUILDING (SITE BUILT);
      (4)   Community parks, playgrounds or centers when part of a community
plan;
      (5)   Public utility facilities (but not business offices nor repair or
storage facilities) when necessary for serving the surrounding territory on one
acre or less following administrative review with comment period;
      (6)   When in conjunction with an approved development plan, golf courses
with accessory uses such as pro shops, shelters, restrooms and the like (but
not commercial driving ranges or miniature putting courses). Subject to the
performance standards set out in §
153.075;
      (7)   Accessory uses and structures (concurrent with and located on the
same lot with the principal uses and structures, and including the following):
         (a)   Farm animals (except swine) on lots of no less than 70,000
square feet for the convenience and pleasure of the lot owner or occupant, not
to exceed the number allowed as per the Allowed Animal Chart in §
153.066. Stables, barns or structures for sheltering or feeding animals must
observe the same setbacks or yards as the dwelling unit;
         (b)   Swimming pools in other than the front yard primary use setback
area in compliance with design guidelines in §
153.090;
         (c)   Quarters for servants and/or nonpaying guests attached to the
dwelling (facilities for preparation of food are prohibited);
         (d)   Temporary construction offices and construction sheds and yards
incidental to a recorded subdivision development or other on-site construction
project for a period not exceeding 24 months from date of plat recordation or
date of issuance of construction project permit with no permits (other than
electrical permits) required to install same (prohibited closer to lot boundary
than is allowed for a principal building in the district);
         (e)   Open land carnival and recreation facilities accessory to
religious or educational institutions (confined to same lot);
         (f)   Temporary on-site sales (real estate) facility only as defined
in §
153.005 in compliance with the regulations and performance standards outlined
under §
153.088;
         (g)   Household pets;
         (h)   Fences and freestanding walls;
         (i)   Parking facilities to meet no less than the minimum requirements
as provided under §
153.110;
         (j)   Educational institutions as defined in §
153.005 but privately funded, allowed as an accessory use to a religious
institution.
         (k)   Steel storage containers that meet the minimum requirements as
provided under §
153.086.
      (8)   Occupancy of temporary housing, including travel trailers,
recreational vehicles and single-wide manufactured homes during the
construction of a permanent dwelling is allowed during the 24-month period
after the issuance of a building permit (and the building permit remains
valid). A permit for the temporary housing must be obtained prior to occupancy
of the temporary dwelling unit. One extension of time for use of a recreational
vehicle, travel trailer or single-wide manufactured home as temporary housing
may be granted at the discretion of the Zoning Administrator or his/her
designee for a period not to exceed the maximum life of the original building
permit for the permanent dwelling which is 30 months from its issuance date (24
months plus one six-month extension). Further extensions will require a use
permit.
      (9)   Bed and breakfast homestays as defined under §
153.005, subject to performance standards set out in §
153.068 for homestays with administrative review with comment period.
      (10)   Accessory dwelling units as defined in §
153.005, subject to the performance standards set out in §
153.075.5, with a minimum parcel size of 70,000 square feet.
      (11)   Home occupations as defined under §
153.005, subject to approval by the Zoning Administrator or his/her designee;
home occupation shall comply with the regulations and standards set out in §
153.077.
Zoning/Density Regulations (in feet unless otherwise noted)
                          Min Yard Setbacks
      Min Lot             Min Building Spacing is 10   Max Building
      Size (in  Min Lot   Feet All Classes             Height       Max Lot
Dist. Sq. Ft.   Width and                              (Stories/    Coverage
      per       Depth     Front Rear Interior Exterior Feet)        (Percent)
      Dwelling)
Zoning/Density Regulations (in feet unless otherwise noted)
                          Min Yard Setbacks
      Min Lot             Min Building Spacing is 10   Max Building
      Size (in  Min Lot   Feet All Classes             Height       Max Lot
Dist. Sq. Ft.   Width and                              (Stories/    Coverage
      per       Depth     Front Rear Interior Exterior Feet)        (Percent)
      Dwelling)

7.5   7,500     75        20    25   7        10       2 30         50
10    10,000    80        20    25   7        10       2 30         40
12    12,000    90        20    25   7        10       2 30         40
18    18,000    100       30    30   10       15       2 30         25
25    25,000    130       30    30   10       15       2 30         20
35    35,000    145       40    40   20       20       2 30         15
70    70,000    200       50    50   25       30       2 30         15
2A    87,120    225       50    50   25       30       2 30         10
175   175,000   300       50    50   30       50       2 30         10
5A    217,800   325       50    50   40       50       2 30         10
10A   435,600   500       50    50   50       50       2 30         5
36A   1,568,160 500       50    50   50       50       2 30         5
 
(Ord. 08-44 § 410, passed 10-21-2008; Am. Ord. 11-80, passed 2-1-2011; Am. Ord.
15-110, passed 4-7- 2015; Am. Ord. 20-150, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 153.037 RMM DISTRICT (RESIDENTIAL; MULTI-SECTIONAL MANUFACTURED HOMES).
   Permitted uses for RMM (Residential; Single Family; site-built, factory
built and Multi-Sectional Manufactured Homes, no single-wide manufactured homes
or mobile homes) are as follows in this section.
   (A)   Where no zoning/density district has been combined, then all
provisions of Density District 10 shall prevail (see §
153.069, most common ones shown in chart below).
   (B)   (1)   All principal and accessory uses and structures permitted in the
R1L Zoning District;
      (2)   Multi-sectional manufactured homes, as defined under §
153.005. To be permitted, multi-sectional manufactured homes must conform to
all provisions set out in §§
153.005 and
153.082;
      (3)   Factory built dwelling as defined under §
153.005;
      (4)   Steel storage containers to meet the minimum requirements as
provided under §
153.086; and
      (5)   Educational institutions (publicly funded) as defined in §
153.005 (in any permitted buildings); and
      (6)   Accessory dwelling unit as defined in §
153.005, subject to the performance standards set out in §
153.075.5, with a minimum parcel size of 70,000 square feet.
Zoning/Density Regulations (in feet unless otherwise noted)
                          Min Yard Setbacks
      Min Lot             Min Building Spacing is 10   Max Building
      Size (in  Min Lot   Feet All Classes             Height       Max Lot
Dist. Sq. Ft.   Width and                              (Stories/    Coverage
      per       Depth     Front Rear Interior Exterior Feet)        (Percent)
      Dwelling)
Zoning/Density Regulations (in feet unless otherwise noted)
                          Min Yard Setbacks
      Min Lot             Min Building Spacing is 10   Max Building
      Size (in  Min Lot   Feet All Classes             Height       Max Lot
Dist. Sq. Ft.   Width and                              (Stories/    Coverage
      per       Depth     Front Rear Interior Exterior Feet)        (Percent)
      Dwelling)

7.5   7,500     75        20    25   7        10       2 30         50
10    10,000    80        20    25   7        10       2 30         40
12    12,000    90        20    25   7        10       2 30         40
18    18,000    100       30    30   10       15       2 30         25
25    25,000    130       30    30   10       15       2 30         20
35    35,000    145       40    40   20       20       2 30         15
70    70,000    200       50    50   25       30       2 30         15
2A    87,120    225       50    50   25       30       2 30         10
175   175,000   300       50    50   30       50       2 30         10
5A    217,800   325       50    50   40       50       2 30         10
10A   435,600   500       50    50   50       50       2 30         5
36A   1,568,160 500       50    50   50       50       2 30         5
 
(Ord. 08-44 § 411, passed 10-21-2008; Am. Ord. 15-110, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 153.038 R1 DISTRICT (RESIDENTIAL; SINGLE FAMILY).
   Permitted uses for the R1 District (Residential; Single Family; site built,
multi-sectional and manufactured) are as follows in this section.
   (A)   Where no zoning/density district has been combined, then all
provisions of Density District 10 shall prevail (see §
153.069, most common ones shown in chart below).
   (B)   (1)   All principal and accessory uses and structures permitted in the
R1L and RMM Districts, Manufactured Housing and Mobile Homes as set forth under
§
153.082;
      (2)   Manufactured homes are permitted as a dwelling unit for a single
family on an individual lot or parcel as set forth in §
153.005 and subject to §
153.082;
      (3)   Additional accessory uses and structures (concurrent with and
located on the same lot with the principal uses and structures and including
the following):
         (a)   Roomers or boarders, not to exceed two for any one dwelling
unit;
         (b)   Farm animals (except swine) on lots of no less than 35,000
square feet for the convenience and pleasure of the lot occupants, not to
exceed the number allowed as per the Allowed Animal Chart in §
153.066. Stables, barns or structures for sheltering or feeding animals must
observe the same setbacks or yards as the dwelling unit.
      (4)   Accessory dwelling units as defined in §
153.005, subject to the performance standards set out in §
153.075.5, with a minimum parcel size of 35,000 square feet.
Zoning/Density Regulations (in feet unless otherwise noted)
                          Min Yard Setbacks
      Min Lot             Min Building Spacing is 10   Max Building
      Size (in  Min Lot   Feet All Classes             Height       Max Lot
Dist. Sq. Ft.   Width and                              (Stories/    Coverage
      per       Depth     Front Rear Interior Exterior Feet)        (Percent)
      Dwelling)
Zoning/Density Regulations (in feet unless otherwise noted)
                          Min Yard Setbacks
      Min Lot             Min Building Spacing is 10   Max Building
      Size (in  Min Lot   Feet All Classes             Height       Max Lot
Dist. Sq. Ft.   Width and                              (Stories/    Coverage
      per       Depth     Front Rear Interior Exterior Feet)        (Percent)
      Dwelling)

7.5   7,500     75        20    25   7        10       2 30         50
10    10,000    80        20    25   7        10       2 30         40
12    12,000    90        20    25   7        10       2 30         40
18    18,000    100       30    30   10       15       2 30         25
25    25,000    130       30    30   10       15       2 30         20
35    35,000    145       40    40   20       20       2 30         15
70    70,000    200       50    50   25       30       2 30         15
2A    87,120    225       50    50   25       30       2 30         10
175   175,000   300       50    50   30       50       2 30         10
5A    217,800   325       50    50   40       50       2 30         10
10A   435,600   500       50    50   50       50       2 30         5
36A   1,568,160 500       50    50   50       50       2 30         5
 
(Ord. 08-44 § 412, passed 10-21-2008; Am. Ord. 15-110, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 153.039 RCU DISTRICT (RESIDENTIAL; RURAL).
   Permitted uses for the RCU District (Residential; Single Family; Rural) are
as follows in this section.
   (A)   This RCU District is intended to provide a zoning classification for
all areas of the town not presently characterized by urban uses.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, including any density
designation, no lot or parcel zoned RCU shall have a density less than two
acres.
   (B)   (1)   All uses allowed in the R1L, RMM and R1 Districts; and
      (2)   Density table, as follows.
Zoning/Density Regulations
(in feet unless otherwise noted)
                          Min Yard Setbacks
      Min Lot             Min Building Spacing is 10   Max Building
      Size (in  Min Lot   Feet All Classes             Height       Max Lot
Dist. Sq. Ft.   Width and                              (Stories/    Coverage
      per       Depth     Front Rear Interior Exterior Feet)        (Percent)
      Dwelling)
Zoning/Density Regulations
(in feet unless otherwise noted)
                          Min Yard Setbacks
      Min Lot             Min Building Spacing is 10   Max Building
      Size (in  Min Lot   Feet All Classes             Height       Max Lot
Dist. Sq. Ft.   Width and                              (Stories/    Coverage
      per       Depth     Front Rear Interior Exterior Feet)        (Percent)
      Dwelling)

2A    87,120    225       50    50   25       30       2 30         10
175   175,000   300       50    50   30       50       2 30         10
5A    217,800   325       50    50   40       50       2 30         10
10A   435,600   500       50    50   50       50       2 30         5
36A   1,568,160 500       50    50   50       50       2 30         5
 
(Ord. § 413, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 153.040 R2 DISTRICT (RESIDENTIAL; MULTI-FAMILY).
   Permitted uses for the R2 District (Residential; Multi-Family) are as
follows in this section.
   (A)   Where no zoning/density district has been combined, then all
provisions of Density District 3 shall prevail (see §
153.069, most common ones shown in chart below).
   (B)   (1)   All principal and accessory uses and structures permitted in the
RCU District;
      (2)   Multi-family dwelling units and apartment hotels (site-built
buildings only) in conformity with the density formula for the district;
      (3)   Lots abutting an arterial highway permit the following:
         (a)   Rooming and boarding houses;
         (b)   Fraternity and sorority houses; and
         (c)   Orphanages and homes for the aged.
      (4)   Bed and breakfast homestays as defined under §
153.005; and
      (5)   Bed and breakfast inns as defined under §
153.005, subject to the regulations and performance standards set out in §
153.068 subject to administrative review with comment period.
Zoning/Density Regulations
(in feet unless otherwise noted)
                               Min Yard Setbacks
                               Min Building Spacing is 10   Max
      Min Lot Min Area Min Lot Feet All Classes             Building  Max Lot
Dist. Size    (per     Width                                Height    Coverage
      (in Sq. Dwelling and                                  (Stories/ (Percent)
      Ft.)    Unit)    Depth   Front Rear Interior Exterior Feet)
Zoning/Density Regulations
(in feet unless otherwise noted)
                               Min Yard Setbacks
                               Min Building Spacing is 10   Max
      Min Lot Min Area Min Lot Feet All Classes             Building  Max Lot
Dist. Size    (per     Width                                Height    Coverage
      (in Sq. Dwelling and                                  (Stories/ (Percent)
      Ft.)    Unit)    Depth   Front Rear Interior Exterior Feet)


1     7,500   1,000    75      20    25   7        10       4 50      50
2     7,500   2,000    75      20    25   7        10       3 40      50
3     7,500   3,000    75      20    25   7        10       2 30      50
4     7,500   4,000    75      20    25   7        10       2 30      50
5     7,500   5,000    75      20    25   7        10       2 30      50
7.5   7,500   7,500    75      20    25   7        10       2 30      50
10    10,000  10,000   80      20    25   7        10       2 30      40
12    12,000  12,000   90      20    25   7        10       2 30      40
 
(Ord. 08-44 § 414, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 153.041 RS DISTRICT (RESIDENTIAL AND SERVICES).
   Permitted uses for the RS District (Residential and Services) are as follows
in this section.
   (A)   Where no zoning/density district has been combined, then all
provisions of Density District 3 shall prevail (see §
153.069, most common ones shown in chart below).
   (B)   (1)   All principal and accessory uses and structures permitted in any
more restrictive zoning district, except accessory dwelling units. Where the
lot is contiguous to a less restrictive zoning district, requirement for
securing an administrative review is waived (unless otherwise provided for);
      (2)   Offering of personal services within enclosed buildings (such as,
but not limited to beauty and barber, massage, photography, group instruction,
tailoring and small appliance repair). Such operations shall not include the
offering of materials or equipment for sale. Small appliance repair not to
include small gas engines. Subject to administrative review with comment
period;
      (3)   Hospitals, clinics, sanitariums and nursing homes for the care of
humans on a minimum one-half acre parcel excluding road right-of-way;
      (4)   Offices in which only professional, administrative, clerical or
sales services are conducted;
      (5)   Private clubs and lodges operated solely for the benefit of bona
fide members, including outdoor recreation or assembly facilities on two acres
or less. Subject to administrative review with comment period;
      (6)   Nursery schools on minimum one-half acre parcel;
      (7)   Revival tents and similar temporary operations; and
      (8)   Educational institutions (privately funded) as defined in §
153.005 (provided they offer a curriculum of general instruction comparable to
similar publicly funded educational institutions).
Zoning/Density Regulations
(in feet unless otherwise noted)
                               Min Yard Setbacks
                               Min Building Spacing is 10   Max
      Min Lot Min Area Min Lot Feet All Classes             Building  Max Lot
Dist. Size    (per     Width                                Height    Coverage
      (in Sq. Dwelling and                                  (Stories/ (Percent)
      Ft.)    Unit)    Depth   Front Rear Interior Exterior Feet)
Zoning/Density Regulations
(in feet unless otherwise noted)
                                Min Yard Setbacks
                          Min   Min Building Spacing is 10   Max
      Min Lot   Min Area  Lot   Feet All Classes             Building  Max Lot
Dist. Size (in  (per      Width                              Height    Coverage
      Sq. Ft.)  Dwelling  and                                (Stories/ (Percent)
                Unit)     Depth Front Rear Interior Exterior Feet)


1     7,500     1,000     75    20    25   7        10       4 50      50
2     7,500     2,000     75    20    25   7        10       3 40      50
3     7,500     3,000     75    20    25   7        10       2 30      50
4     7,500     4,000     75    20    25   7        10       2 30      50
5     7,500     5,000     75    20    25   7        10       2 30      50
7.5   7,500     7,500     75    20    25   7        10       2 30      50
10    10,000    10,000    80    20    25   7        10       2 30      40
12    12,000    12,000    90    20    25   7        10       2 30      40
18    18,000    18,000    100   30    30   10       15       2 30      25
25    25,000    25,000    130   30    30   10       15       2 30      20
35    35,000    35,000    145   40    40   20       20       2 30      15
70    70,000    70,000    200   50    50   25       30       2 30      15
2A    87,120    87,120    225   50    50   25       30       2 30      10
175   175,000   175,000   300   50    50   30       50       2 30      10
5A    217,800   217,800   325   50    50   40       50       2 30      10
10A   435,600   435,600   500   50    50   50       50       2 30      5
36A   1,568,160 1,568,160 500   50    50   50       50       2 30      5
 
(Ord. 08-44 § 415, passed 10-21-2008; Am. Ord. 15-110, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 153.042 C1 DISTRICT (COMMERCIAL; NEIGHBORHOOD SALES AND SERVICES).
   Permitted uses for the C1 District (Commercial; Neighborhood Sales and
Services) are as follows in this section.
   (A)   (1)   Permitted uses and structures shall be compatible with the
neighborhood development. Storage of materials and supplies, displays (other
than signs) and other nonresidential uses are restricted to buildings closed on
all sides (except as may otherwise be permitted). Intoxicating beverage sale
restricted to that of off-site consumption only.
      (2)   Where no density district has been combined, then the provisions of
Density District 2 shall prevail for dwelling units, hotels and motels (see §
153.069, most common ones shown in chart below).
   (B)   (1)   All principal and accessory uses permitted in any more
restrictive zoning district, except accessory dwelling units; and providing
further that, unless specifically provided to the contrary, the requirements
for an administrative review (except for lots contiguous to residential
districts) are waived;
      (2)   Mobile home courts, subject to administrative review with comment
period;
      (3)   Retail sales, restricted to on-site sales only;
      (4)   Commercial art galleries;
      (5)   Restaurants and cafes, but prohibiting vending from openings in
buildings (no drive-through windows);
      (6)   Business offices, banks and similar;
      (7)   Custom service and craft shops as follows, limited to 3,000 square
feet of shop floor area: barber, beauty, massage, tailor and cleaning pickup,
key and gun, photographic, fixit (home appliance, saw, mower, clock, radio, TV
and similar) precision and musical instrument, optical;
      (8)   Launderettes, limited to machines not exceeding 25 pounds capacity
according to manufacturer's rating;
      (9)   Dancing, art, music and business schools (prohibiting public
recitals, concerts or dances);
      (10)   Automotive service stations, see §
153.074;
      (11)   Parking facilities limited to no more than two trucks for any one
commercial project;
      (12)   Signs, see §§
153.125 through
153.130;
      (13)   Bed and breakfast country inns, as defined under §
153.005;
      (14)   Hotel/motel/resorts;
      (15)   Retail liquid propane dispensing stations on the premises and as
an accessory to an allowed retail commercial use subject to design and siting
approval and inspection by the Office of the Arizona State Fire Marshal and/or
the applicable Fire District. See performance criteria in §
153.081;
      (16)   Lodging and timeshares; and
      (17)   Museums.
   (C)   (1)   Yard requirements: as provided under §
153.065;
      (2)   Building heights: in accordance with §
153.069; and
      (3)   Building density: in accordance with §
153.069.
Zoning/Density Regulations
(in feet unless otherwise noted)
                               Min Yard Setbacks
                               Min Building Spacing is 10   Max
      Min Lot Min Area Min Lot Feet All Classes             Building  Max Lot
Dist. Size    (per     Width                                Height    Coverage
      (in Sq. Dwelling and                                  (Stories/ (Percent)
      Ft.)    Unit)    Depth   Front Rear Interior Exterior Feet)
Zoning/Density Regulations
(in feet unless otherwise noted)
                               Min Yard Setbacks
                               Min Building Spacing is 10   Max
      Min Lot Min Area Min Lot Feet All Classes             Building  Max Lot
Dist. Size    (per     Width                                Height    Coverage
      (in Sq. Dwelling and                                  (Stories/ (Percent)
      Ft.)    Unit)    Depth   Front Rear Interior Exterior Feet)


1     7,500   1,000    75      20    25   7        10       4 50      50
2     7,500   2,000    75      20    25   7        10       3 40      50
3     7,500   3,000    75      20    25   7        10       2 30      50
4     7,500   4,000    75      20    25   7        10       2 30      50
5     7,500   5,000    75      20    25   7        10       2 30      50
 
(Ord. 08-44 § 420, passed 10-21-2008; Am. Ord. 15-110, passed 4-7-2015; Am.
Ord. 19-146, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 153.043 C2 DISTRICT (COMMERCIAL; GENERAL SALES AND SERVICES).
   Permitted uses for the C2 District (Commercial; General Sales and Services)
are as follows in this section.
   (A)   (1)   Storage of materials and supplies, displays (other than signs),
and other nonresidential uses are restricted to buildings closed on sides
facing lot perimeter (i.e., no service entries/bays facing street or readily
visible from adjacent residential) (except as may otherwise be permitted).
      (2)   Where no density district has been combined, then the provisions of
Density District 1 shall prevail for dwelling units, hotels and motels (see §
153.069, most common ones shown in chart below).
   (B)   (1)   All principal and accessory uses permitted in any more
restrictive zoning district, except accessory dwelling units; and providing
further that, unless specifically provided to the contrary, the following are
waived:
         (a)   Requirements for use permits/administrative reviews (except for
lots contiguous to residential districts);
         (b)   Area limitations for uses and buildings; and
         (c)   Limitations on hours of operation.
      (2)   Sales (retail and wholesale) and rentals;
      (3)   Commercial parking facilities;
      (4)   Bars, tap rooms and nightclubs;
      (5)   Theaters, auditoriums, banquet and dance halls;
      (6)   Dancing, art, music, business and trade schools (including
permission for public recitals, concerts and dances);
      (7)   Commercial bath and massage;
      (8)   Frozen food lockers;
      (9)   Custom craft and service shops, limited to 5,000 square feet of
shop floor area. Cleaning and dyeing limited to closed unit machines with self-
contained transmission and using solvents, shampoos, detergents and other
agents of chlorinated solvent type and having a rating of five or under by
Underwriters Laboratories, Inc.;
      (10)   Bowling alleys and poolrooms;
      (11)   Water distillation and bottling for retail sales only, limited to
5,000 square feet of shop floor area;
      (12)   Mortuaries (loading, unloading and automobile stacking for
processionals confined to mortuary premises);
      (13)   Vending for on or off-site consumption of foods, confections,
nonintoxicating drinks (and other refreshments) through openings in buildings
(no such vending allowed within 300 feet of a public or parochial grade or high
school);
      (14)   General repair of automobiles, light trucks, recreational
vehicles, cycles and small stationary or portable machinery entirely within
enclosed buildings or attached enclosures of solid material at least six feet
in height: subject to performance criteria set out in §
153.092;
      (15)   General sales of new and used automobiles, light trucks,
recreational vehicles, travel trailers, mobile homes, boats, boat trailers,
utility trailers, motorcycles, ATVs (all terrain vehicles), bicycles and small
stationary or portable machinery within enclosed buildings. Outside display of
such vehicles or similar merchandise shall be permitted subject to performance
criteria set out in §
153.085;
      (16)   Veterinary clinics and hospitals for the diagnosis and treatment
of household pets and other small animals under 100 pounds, entirely within an
enclosed building not exceeding 3,000 square feet. Boarding of animals
incidental to their diagnosis or treatment shall be permitted, provided that:
         (a)   The boarding area is entirely within the same building as the
clinic or hospital and does not exceed 50% of the total floor area; and
         (b)   The boarding area is either completely soundproofed or is no
closer than 300 feet to any contiguous parcel of property. No on-site
incineration shall be permitted.
      (17)   Pet shops within enclosed buildings not exceeding 1,500 square
feet for the display and sale of household pets and other small animals, under
100 pounds, provided that:
         (a)   The pet shop is either completely soundproofed or is no closer
than 300 feet to any contiguous parcel of residential property zoned or used
for residential purposes; and
         (b)   No on-site incineration shall be permitted.
      (18)   Signs: see §§
153.125 through
153.130;
      (19)   Self-service storage facilities: see §
153.089; and
      (20)   Recreational vehicle parks.
   (C)   (1)   Yard requirements: same as for C1 District;
      (2)   Building heights: in accordance with §
153.069; and
      (3)   Building density: in accordance with §
153.069.
Zoning/Density Regulations
(in feet unless otherwise noted)
                               Min Yard Setbacks
                               Min Building Spacing is 10   Max
      Min Lot Min Area Min Lot Feet All Classes             Building  Max Lot
Dist. Size    (per     Width                                Height    Coverage
      (in Sq. Dwelling and                                  (Stories/ (Percent)
      Ft.)    Unit)    Depth   Front Rear Interior Exterior Feet)
Zoning/Density Regulations
(in feet unless otherwise noted)
                               Min Yard Setbacks
                               Min Building Spacing is 10   Max
      Min Lot Min Area Min Lot Feet All Classes             Building  Max Lot
Dist. Size    (per     Width                                Height    Coverage
      (in Sq. Dwelling and                                  (Stories/ (Percent)
      Ft.)    Unit)    Depth   Front Rear Interior Exterior Feet)


1     7,500   1,000    75      20    25   7        10       4 50      50
2     7,500   2,000    75      20    25   7        10       3 40      50
3     7,500   3,000    75      20    25   7        10       2 30      50
4     7,500   4,000    75      20    25   7        10       2 30      50
5     7,500   5,000    75      20    25   7        10       2 30      50
 
(Ord. 08-44 § 421, passed 10-21-2008; Am. Ord. 15-110, passed 4-7-2015; Am.
Ord. 20-155, passed 12-15-2020)
§ 153.044 C3 DISTRICT (COMMERCIAL AND MINOR INDUSTRIAL).
   Permitted uses for the C3 District (Commercial and Minor Industrial) are as
follows in this section.
   (A)   (1)   The front 50 feet depth of a lot shall not be used for open-land
storage of material or equipment, work yard or display (except display for sale
or rental as may be granted under a use permit); such open-land storage or work
areas on any other portion of the lot shall be secured by a solid wall, fence
or hedge so as not to be visible from any higher ranking zoning district (nor
shall any materials or equipment extend higher than such screening).
      (2)   Where no density district has been combined, then the provisions of
Density District 1 shall prevail for hotels and motels (see §
153.069, most common ones shown in chart below).
   (B)   (1)   All principal and accessory uses permitted in any more
restrictive zoning district (except dwelling units and mobile home courts) and
providing further that, unless specifically provided to the contrary, the
following are waived:
         (a)   Requirements for use permits/ administrative reviews (except for
lots contiguous to residential districts);
         (b)   Area limitations for uses and buildings;
         (c)   Limitations on hours of operation; and
         (d)   Confining of uses to closed or partially closed buildings.
      (2)   Sales facilities, retail and wholesale;
      (3)   Lumber yards (prohibiting milling and planning operations);
      (4)   Custom warehouses within closed buildings and not including
animals, limited to 15,000 square feet of floor area;
      (5)   Craft shops and work, storage and equipment yards in connection
therewith, limited to 15,000 square feet of floor area;
      (6)   Cemeteries for human or animal internment. Subject to
administrative review with comment period;
      (7)   Pet shops within closed buildings;
      (8)   Small animal hospitals for diagnosis, treatment or boarding,
limited to 5,000 square feet of floor area entirely within a closed building.
Outdoor runs, pens and cages and/or larger buildings, no less than 100 feet
from any residential district for such outdoor use, with special consideration
to the neighborhood reaction to the administrative review application, type and
number of day and night animal guests, whether to restrict to diagnosis and
treatment or to permit boarding, the extent of outdoor activity; total lot and
use area, and limitations on permit duration. Subject to administrative review
with comment period;
      (9)   Transportation terminal and transfer facilities within closed
buildings, limited to 15,000 square feet of floor area;
      (10)   Cleaning and dyeing plants within closed buildings, limited to
15,000 square feet of floor area;
      (11)   Body and fender shops within closed buildings;
      (12)   Commercial ballrooms, arenas, gymnasiums, rinks, pools and indoor
shooting galleries;
      (13)   Public auction within closed buildings, livestock sales
prohibited;
      (14)   Bottling plants confined to closed buildings, limited to 15,000
square feet of floor area;
      (15)   Custom tire recapping; and
      (16)   Signs: see §§
153.125 through
153.130.
   (C)   (1)   Yards required: same as for C1 and C2 Districts;
      (2)   Building heights: in accordance with §
153.069;
      (3)   Building density: no requirements.
Zoning/Density Regulations
(in feet unless otherwise noted)
                               Min Yard Setbacks
                               Min Building Spacing is 10   Max
      Min Lot Min Area Min Lot Feet All Classes             Building  Max Lot
Dist. Size    (per     Width                                Height    Coverage
      (in Sq. Dwelling and                                  (Stories/ (Percent)
      Ft.)    Unit)    Depth   Front Rear Interior Exterior Feet)
Zoning/Density Regulations
(in feet unless otherwise noted)
                               Min Yard Setbacks
                               Min Building Spacing is 10   Max
      Min Lot Min Area Min Lot Feet All Classes             Building  Max Lot
Dist. Size    (per     Width                                Height    Coverage
      (in Sq. Dwelling and                                  (Stories/ (Percent)
      Ft.)    Unit)    Depth   Front Rear Interior Exterior Feet)


1     7,500   1,000    75      20    25   7        10       4 50      50
2     7,500   2,000    75      20    25   7        10       3 40      50
3     7,500   3,000    75      20    25   7        10       2 30      50
4     7,500   4,000    75      20    25   7        10       2 30      50
5     7,500   5,000    75      20    25   7        10       2 30      50
 
(Ord. 08-44 § 422, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 153.045 PM DISTRICT (PERFORMANCE INDUSTRIAL).
   Permitted uses for the PM District (Performance Industrial) are as follows
in this section.
   (A)   (1)   Intended to promote the development and operation of certain
uses, such as but not limited to laboratories, light manufacturing and
assembly, in such a restricted and limited manner that, because of the
limitations on type of structures and uses, control on height and density,
prohibitions against open land facilities, prohibitions against emission of
such nuisances as fumes, odors, noise, glare and vibration, prohibition of
general retail sales and service or other uses that cater to the general
public, and the landscaping requirements, so as to protect and foster
residential desirability adjacent to such industries. The prohibition of
residential uses is intended to preserve the PM zoned land for the industrial
development.
      (2)   Residential uses prohibited (including dwelling units, mobile home
courts, motels, hotels and similar). General retail sales and service or other
uses that cater to the public are prohibited. All uses as allowed confined to
closed buildings (except parking, loading and unloading). Space for parking
shall always be kept available to provide no less than two square feet of land
area for each square foot of building area. All development must progress in
accordance with a general layout, architectural and landscape plans to assure a
development compatible with the intent of the zoning district. This layout
shall provide a landscaped area 50 feet in depth adjacent to any street and may
not contain any other uses or structures except for walks, drives, signs and
lighting.
   (B)   (1)   All principal and accessory uses permitted in any more
restrictive district, except those prohibited under these district
stipulations;
      (2)   Manufacturing, machining, tooling, assembly, fabrication,
processing, compounding, packaging, mixing, molding; equipping and decorating,
glazing, repairing, servicing, cleaning, winding, printing and publishing,
binding, weaving, knitting, sewing, baking, cooking, roasting, pickling,
brewing, distilling, plating, polishing;
      (3)   Warehouses;
      (4)   Motion picture productions, radio and television studios;
      (5)   In-plant restaurants as an appurtenant use, and including roof or
landscaped patio dining facilities; and
      (6)   Signs: same as C1 District.
   (C)   (1)   Lot area and dimensions: no lot shall be established smaller
than a 100-foot width, 300-foot depth and 70,000 square foot area, nor to
exceed a depth of 650 feet unless it can be shown that a greater depth will not
block projected streets or alleys.
      (2)   Yards required: 50 feet adjacent to any street or alley; 50 feet
adjacent to any residential zoned lot and 25 feet adjacent to any other lot.
      (3)   Building heights: maximum 30 feet plus one foot additional for each
ten feet of setback beyond all required yards.
      (4)   Building density: the total area of all buildings shall not exceed
30% of the total area of the lot.
      (5)   Building spacing: no building shall be closer to any other building
than 30 feet.
(Ord. 08-44 § 430, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 153.046 M1 DISTRICT (INDUSTRIAL; GENERAL LIMITED).
   Permitted uses for the M1 District (Industrial; General Limited) are as
follows in this section.
   (A)   (1)   Intended to provide the type of industrial facilities which,
while not necessarily attractive in operational appearances, are installed and
operated in a manner so as not to cause inconvenience to other uses in the
zoning district (or to adjacent zoning districts).
      (2)   Where uncertainty exists as to compliance with the intent of this
district, in differentiating between the light and heavy character of the
proposed use, the Board of Adjustment shall determine.
   (B)   (1)   All principal and accessory uses permitted in any more
restrictive zoning district, except dwelling units, mobile home courts, hotels,
motels, rooming and boarding houses and similar, and provided further that,
unless specifically provided to the contrary, the following are waived:
         (a)   Requirements for use permits, except for lots contiguous to
residential districts;
         (b)   Area limitations for uses and buildings;
         (c)   Limitations on hours of operations;
         (d)   Confining uses to closed (or partially closed) buildings; and
         (e)   Prohibitions against livestock and other animals.
      (2)   Dispensing of gasoline and similar petroleum products from exposed
storage tanks (subject to requirements of Underwriters Laboratories Inc. or
similar), provided no such tank shall be located closer than 25 feet to the lot
boundaries.
      (3)   Manufacturing, machining, tooling, assembly, fabrication, welding,
milling, molding, equipping, decorating, glazing, repairing, servicing,
cleaning, winding, printing, publishing, pickling, brewing, distilling, salvage
(but not wrecking), equipment, material and dead storage yards, plating and
polishing, meat packing (no slaughtering except rabbits and poultry), animal
treating, boarding, breeding and sales, warehousing (including elevators),
freight yards, circuses and carnivals, race tracks and stadiums; and
      (4)   Signs: see §§
153.125 through
153.130.
   (C)   (1)   Yards required: same as for commercial districts;
      (2)   Building heights: use permit required to exceed 30 feet or two
stories; and
      (3)   Building density: no requirements.
(Ord. 08-44 § 431, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 153.047 M2 DISTRICT (INDUSTRIAL; HEAVY).
   Permitted uses for the M2 District (Industrial; Heavy) are as follows in
this section.
   (A)   (1)   Intended for all types of industrial uses except hazards to
health and property; with controls of air and stream pollution, radiation, fire
and explosion dangers.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator must deny any proposed use or structure
where uncertainty exists as to compliance with intent of the district; or where
he or she finds the use will exhaust or emit air or stream pollutants, and may
accept an application for a use permit to operate in some modified manner.
   (B)   (1)   All principal and accessory uses permitted in any more
restrictive zoning district, except dwelling units, mobile home courts, hotels,
motels, rooming and boarding houses and similar, and provided further that,
unless specifically provided to the contrary, the following are waived:
         (a)   Requirements for use permits, except for lots contiguous to
residential districts;
         (b)   Area limitations for uses and buildings;
         (c)   Limitations on hours of operation;
         (d)   Confining of uses to closed or partially closed buildings; and
         (e)   Prohibitions against livestock and other animals.
      (2)   All other legal uses except as may pollute the air or streams, or
present latent radiation, explosion, or fire danger (except as may be permitted
under a use permit in a modified manner).
   (C)   (1)   Yards required: same as for Commercial and M1 Districts;
      (2)   Building heights: no requirements; and
      (3)   Building density: no requirements.
(Ord. 08-44 § 432, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 153.048 PAD DISTRICT (PLANNED AREA DEVELOPMENT).
   (A)   Purpose. A Planned Area Development (PAD) Overlay is intended:
      (1)   To provide for various types and combinations of land uses (such as
single and multi-family housing, golf course developments, and public spaces)
through the adoption of a development plan.
      (2)   To establish planning and development control parameters while
allowing sufficient flexibility to permit final detailed planning at the time
of actual development, and to permit flexibility in design, placement of
buildings, use of open spaces, and the like.
      (3)   To encourage and permit unified planning to achieve a compatible
mixture and variety of land uses within the PAD Overlay and with the existing
and anticipated development in the surrounding area.
      (4)   To accomplish the purpose of zoning and other regulations to an
equivalent or higher degree than where such regulations are designed to control
development on individual lots.
      (5)   To promote economical and efficient land use, an improved level of
amenities, appropriate and harmonious variety, creative design, and a better
environment.
      (6)   PAD Overlays may be established where tracts suitable in location,
area, and character for the uses and structures proposed will be planned and
developed on a unified basis. Suitability of tracts for the development
proposed shall be determined with reference to the general plan and to the
existing and prospective character of surrounding development.
   (B)   Scope.
      (1)   A PAD may proceed by increments to be called “development units.”
      (2)   The PAD Overlay is intended to be overlaid onto any combination of
the specified Zoning Districts included within the Town Planning and Zoning
Ordinance, and the PAD designation shall control the land use regulations
otherwise permitted within the Districts, as set forth herein. The permitted
uses allowed, the yard, height, and area requirements, and other requirements
within the Overlay shall be those permitted or required within the appropriate
Zoning District with which the PAD Overlay is combined, except where modified.
For example, if the PAD allows for multiple family dwellings then yards,
fences, storage, etc. shall follow the regulations of the applicable Zoning
District, which is R2. In another example, if a developer wishes to increase
density and use the PAD Overlay, the developer would first process the zoning
change for the underlying zoning density, and then bring the PAD Overlay
application. Where there are conflicts between special PAD regulations and the
general zoning or other regulations, these PAD regulations shall apply in the
PAD Overlay unless the Commission shall find, in the particular case, at the
time of rezoning application, that these provisions do not serve the public to
a degree at least equivalent to such general zoning, or other regulations.
      (3)   Where actions, designs or solutions are not literally in accord
with applicable PAD or general regulations, but the Commission makes a finding
in the particular case that the public is served to an equivalent or greater
degree, the Commission may recommend specific modification of the regulations.
   (C)   Planned area development defined. For the purpose of this section, a
PAD shall:
      (1)   Be a single development operation or a definitely programmed series
of development operations which can be one type of land use or a mixture of
land uses.
      (2)   Be developed according to comprehensive and detailed plans that
include the locations of streets, utilities, lots, building sites and other
uses; also site plans and floor plans for all buildings as intended to be
located, constructed, used, and related to each other, and detailed plans for
other uses and improvements on the land as related to the buildings.
   (D)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   Single-family dwellings, two-family, multi-family; detached, semi-
detached, and attached and accessory uses except accessory dwelling units.
      (2)   Community facilities, such as schools, parks, and playgrounds.
      (3)   Clubs not operated primarily for commercial purposes.
      (4)   Golf courses in accordance with performance standards as set out in
§
153.075.
      (5)   Manufactured home parks and subdivisions in accordance with the
provisions of this section and any additional requirements the Commission or
Council may deem necessary to fulfill the intent of these requirements.
      (6)   Home occupations when indicated as part of the development plan or
when in accordance with the provisions of this code.
      (7)   Accessory uses and structures, where permitted; such uses and
structures may be located in the front one-half of a lot, provided they are not
nearer the front lot line than the main building or buildings.
      (8)   Public utility installations.
      (9)   Signs when submitted as part of the development plan or when in
accordance with this code.
      (10)   In considering a proposed PAD, the Commission may approve
modifications of these requirements to the Town Council. Justification for such
modification shall be supplied by the applicant in written form as part of the
hearing application procedure.
   (E)   General provisions. General provisions standards, requirements,
regulations, and changes to densities are intended to ensure compatibility. The
Commission may recommend to the Town Council modification of such standards,
requirements, regulations, and changes to densities. The layout and design
shall be subject to the following limitations:
      (1)   Maximum Lot Coverage. A combination of all of the proposed uses
shall not exceed a maximum building coverage of 50% of the total area, except
in the case of a PAD located within or abutting another Zoning District which
allows a greater coverage, then the greater coverage allowances may apply.
      (2)   Open space.
         (a)   A minimum of 25% of the total gross site area, that is intended
to provide light and air, and is designated and designed for resource
protection, buffers, drainage ways, environmental, scenic, or recreational
purposes. Common open space lands shall be clearly designated on the plan to
include the character of use and development, and may be public or private or
some combination of both, and shall not include private residences/structures,
required yards, driveways, parking lots, streets, alleys, public rights-of-way
or other surfaces intended or designed for vehicles. Decorative lakes
(including those that contain treated effluent) may be included in the
calculation for open space.
         (b)   Whether private or dedicated to the public, it shall be the
responsibility of the developer to ensure that the open space is protected in
perpetuity by legal arrangements, sufficient to assure its maintenance and
preservation for whatever purpose it is intended. Covenants or other legal
arrangements shall specify ownership of the open space, method of maintenance;
maintenance taxes and insurance; compulsory membership and compulsory
assessment provisions and any other specifications deemed necessary by the
Commission and Town Council.
      (3)   Zero lot line setbacks may be allowed under the following
circumstances:
         (a)   The lot adjacent to the zero-setback side yard must be under the
same ownership at the time of initial construction (ensuring that a developer
does not infringe on the property rights of owners of adjacent tracts).
         (b)   The setback on the adjacent lot must be either zero feet or
greater than ten feet.
         (c)   The opposite side yard of not less than ten feet must be kept
perpetually free of permanent obstructions (such as a storage shed or a fence
without a gate).
         (d)   Similar zero lot line exceptions can be made for the rear yard,
but not for both the side and rear yards of the same lot.
         (e)   A five foot maintenance easement along the boundary of the zero
lot line must be identified on the site plan.
      (4)   Non-motorized trails shall be considered and may be incorporated
into the design of vehicular and pedestrian traffic ways where possible, and
connect to off-site non-motorized trails.
      (5)   All public streets within or abutting the proposed PAD shall be
dedicated and improved to town specifications for the particular classification
of street. When the developer desires to retain any streets within the
development as private streets, these streets shall be constructed to town
standards, permanently reserved and maintained for their intended purpose by
means acceptable to the Town Engineer. Other forms of access, such as,
pedestrian ways, courts, plazas, driveways or open parking lots shall not be
offered for dedication.
      (6)   PADs shall relate harmoniously to the topography of the site, shall
make suitable provision for the preservation of watercourses, drainage areas,
wooded areas, rough terrain and similar natural features and areas and shall be
designed to use and retain these natural features and amenities to the best
advantage.
      (7)   All utilities within a PAD shall be placed underground.
         (a)   A common central television antenna or receiver may be provided
with underground cable service to all dwelling units.
         (b)   For the purposes of this section, appurtenances and associated
equipment such as, surface-mounted transformers, pedestal-mounted terminal
boxes and meter cabinets and concealed conduit in an underground system may be
placed above ground.
   (F)   Other requirements. The Commission and/or Town Council shall insure
that the public welfare and safety is preserved, and that provision is made for
harmonious and appropriate development of the land by requiring as needed:
      (1)   Declaration of public use space for parks, schools, recreation
areas, and the like.
      (2)   Coordination of street layout with existing or planned streets.
      (3)   Preservation of natural features, such as trees, hilltops,
watercourses, and archeological sites.
      (4)   Architectural plans of building design in addition to a
comprehensive plan for the development.
      (5)   Proof of adequate sanitary sewage and water systems.
      (6)   Adequate fire protection.
      (7)   Schedule of plan implementation.
      (8)   Additional issues of public interest.
      (9)   Proof of adequate water entitlement and sustainable availability.
   (G)   PAD Amendments. The following procedures shall be followed for any
amendment to a PAD including amendments to the Development Phasing Schedule.
      (1)   Major amendments:
         (a)   A PAD Overlay applicant or his successors in interest may file a
request for a major amendment with the Community Development Department.
         (b)   The change will be deemed major if it involves any one of the
following:
            1.   An increase in the approved totals of dwelling units or gross
leasable area for the PAD Overlay.
            2.   A significant change in zoning boundaries as determined by the
Zoning Administrator or designee from those approved for the PAD Overlay.
            3.   Any change which could have significant impact on areas
adjoining the PAD as determined by the Zoning Administrator or designee.
            4.   Any change which could have a significant traffic impact on
roadways adjacent or external to the PAD as determined by the Town Manager or
designee.
         (c)   The Community Development Department will bring the major
amendment before the Commission and Town Council and will submit background
material relevant to the request.
      (2)   Minor Amendments:
         (a)   A PAD Overlay applicant or his successors in interest may file a
request for a minor amendment with the Community Development Department if the
Zoning Administrator or designee determines that the request is not major, as
defined above.
         (b)   The request will be routed for comment to any affected town
departments or other agencies for comment.
         (c)   Upon receipt of comments or no later than ten working days, the
Zoning Administrator or designee will determine whether to approve or deny the
requested change.
         (d)   If the requested change is approved, a letter of approval will
be mailed to the applicant with a copy filed for public record.
      (3)   Interpretations. In the event that it becomes necessary to
interpret stipulations within the PAD Overlay, the Commission and Town Council
shall hold a hearing and make such interpretations.
   (H)   Procedures. Every PAD Overlay approved under the provisions of this
section shall follow the procedure for a Zoning Map Change as set out in the
Town Planning and Zoning Ordinance and shall comply with the requirements of
this section.
      (1)   Application. An application to establish a PAD project shall be
filed by the owner or owners having title to all of the property in the area
proposed for the PAD, the agent for the owner having appropriate authorization,
or the town. Every application shall be accompanied by a fee as required.
      (2)   Master plan.
         (a)   In establishing a PAD, a master plan of the entire area to be
developed shall be required as part of the rezoning application. In addition to
the requirements of a Zoning Map Change, the submittal requirements of the
master plan shall conform to the submittal requirements of a Sketch Plan (§
152.06 and following).
         (b)   If a PAD is to be developed in phases or development units,
separate hearings for the platting process shall be held to review each phase
according to the standards set out for plats in the Town Subdivision
Regulations.
         (c)   Each phase/plat must be in substantial conformance to the
approved master plan and sketch plan/zoning map change.
         (d)   An approved site plan shall be binding upon applicants and their
successors or assignees. No building permit shall be issued for any building,
structures or use, not in accordance with the site plan, except that temporary
construction facilities shall be permitted.
      (3)   Application submittal requirements for a minor amendment to a PAD:
         (a)   A site plan depicting the existing conditions of the PAD and
proposed amendment.
         (b)   A letter of intent, explaining the proposed amendment, along
with justification as to why the request is reasonable and meets the intent of
the section.
         (c)   Written support from the Home Owners Association, Property
Owners Association, Architectural Review Committee and affected property owners
for the proposed amendment.
         (d)   Submittal of a filing fee.
      (4)   Adoption of the PAD. The development plan and supporting statements
and documents submitted with the application for a Planned Area Development
shall be approved and adopted by the Council and included in the ordinance
establishing the PAD Overlay. All development within the PAD Overlay shall
comply with the sketch plans as approved and adopted by the Council.
         (a)   Action by the Commission. Upon completing its public hearing on
the PAD application and sketch plan, the Commission shall transmit its
recommendation to the Council.
            1.   The recommendation of the Commission shall include the reasons
for approval or disapproval of the application, and if recommended for approval
shall give specific evidence and facts showing that the application meets with
the following:
               a.   That the development at the location proposed is generally
consistent with the goals, objectives, densities and policies of the General
Plan or specific plan for the area.
               b.   That the development at the location proposed and the
development standards to be followed or maintained will not be detrimental to
the public health, safety or welfare or materially injurious to properties or
improvements in the vicinity.
               c.   That the development will promote or preserve environmental
quality and conserve energy usage and energy resources, including the
protection of adequate sunlight for use of solar energy systems.
            2.   The recommendations of the Commission may include reasonable
additional conditions and/or modifications to established property development
standards as deemed necessary to promote the purpose of this Overlay and this
code.
         (b)   Action by the Town Council. Following conclusion of its public
hearing, the Council may approve the PAD and sketch plan as recommended by the
Commission or in a modified form, stipulating those conditions it deems
necessary to carry out the purpose of this Overlay and this Code. If the PAD
and sketch plan is approved, it shall be incorporated as part of the Zoning
Map. The Council shall include the reasons for approval or disapproval of the
application and shall give specific evidence and facts showing that the
application meets with the following:
            1.   That the development at the location proposed is generally
consistent with the goals, objectives, densities and policies of the General
Plan or specific plan for the area.
            2.   That the development at the location proposed and the
development standards to be followed or maintained will not be detrimental to
the public health, safety or welfare or materially injurious to properties or
improvements in the vicinity.
            3.   That the development will promote or preserve environmental
quality and conserve energy usage and energy resources, including the
protection of adequate sunlight for use of solar energy systems.
   (I)   Enforceability.
      (1)   The PAD Program shall continue to be implemented and maintained for
the total acreage of the PAD Overlay, even though ownership may subsequently be
transferred in whole or in part.
         (a)   It is the responsibility of the owner to notify all prospective
purchasers of all or part of the property within the Overlay of the existence
of the PAD Overlay amendment and the PAD Program contained therein.
         (b)   Conformance with the PAD shall be enforced by recordation of the
appropriate deed restrictions for each parcel of property within the Overlay,
prior to the issuance of building permits, for each development unit.
         (c)   Notification and recordation as provided above shall be required
in order to retain the unitary aspect of the overlay.
      (2)   Application for approval of the first development unit shall be
made, and required infrastructure development shall have commenced, within four
years of the date upon which the PAD overlay amendment was approved. Each
development unit must contain open space proportional to the size of the
development unit. Applications for approval of subsequent units shall be made
in accordance with the development-phasing schedule contained in the PAD
Program. If a written request for additional time is received from the
applicant/agent within 30 days of notification, providing justification why an
extension may be warranted, a one year extension of time may be
administratively approved by the Zoning Administrator or designee for the first
extension. If the applicant requests additional extensions of time beyond a one
year administratively approved extension, staff shall notice a hearing to
determine the cause of the delay.
         (a)   The hearing shall be held within 60 days of the date of the
written notice, and shall follow procedures for hearings.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator may determine good cause for such
deficiency/extension of time and may, in conjunction therewith, entertain an
application to amend the development-phasing schedule.
      (3)   Failure to commence required infrastructure development within the
required time period shall cause the PAD Overlay classification to become null
and void, and any property rezoned in conformance with the PAD Overlay
amendment and the PAD Program to revert to its former zoning classification by
action of the Town Council.
      (4)   At such time that the Zoning Administrator or designee shall
determine that the applicant is not proceeding to develop in accordance with
the PAD Program, it shall notify the applicant in writing of such deficiency
and shall, simultaneously, notice a hearing to determine the cause of the
delay.
         (a)   The hearing shall be held within 30 days of the date of the
written notice, and shall follow procedures for hearings.
         (b)   The Town Council may determine good cause for such deficiency
and may, in conjunction therewith, entertain an application to amend the
development-phasing schedule.
         (c)   The Town Council may determine that there is not good cause for
such deficiency, and in such event may impose additional restrictions on the
applicant to ensure future compliance with the PAD Program including, but not
limited to, the filing of such periodic reports as the Council shall require to
enforce this provision.
   (J)   At such time that the Town Council shall determine that the current
owner of any portion of the PAD Overlay is not in compliance with a provision
of the PAD Program or the public dedication or improvement schedules no further
vesting of zoning or approval of final site plan or subdivision plats shall
occur for that portion. Such determination of noncompliance shall be at a
public hearing. The applicant and current owner(s) shall receive written notice
of hearing.
(Ord. 08-41, passed 8-5-2008; Am. Ord. 08-44 § 440, passed 10-21-2008; Am. Ord.
15-110, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 153.049 RCD DISTRICT (RESIDENTIAL CAMPING DISTRICT).
   Permitted uses in the RCD District (Residential Camping District) are as
follows in this section.
   (A)   Purpose. This district is intended to cover the operation of resident
camps that are either private, public, religious, organizational or agency
camps. Resident camps are not restricted from operating trip camps, schools,
travel, outpost, overnight or day camping programs.
   (B)   Uses.
      (1)   All principal and accessory uses and structures permitted in R1L
except accessory dwelling units;
      (2)   Up to 10% of all allowable units may be recreational vehicles
spaces;
      (3)   Meeting, dining and other structures and services required to
provide for residents of the camping programs; and
      (4)   Resident camp sleeping or dorm facilities.
   (C)   Land and building requirements.
      (1)   Land coverage shall not exceed 20%.
      (2)   All provisions of Density District 25 shall prevail (see §
153.069).
      (3)   Space between buildings shall not be less than 20 feet.
      (4)   Peripheral setback requirements shall be 60 feet of maintained open
space, not to allow parking and storage.
      (5)   Building heights shall be a maximum of 30 feet.
   (D)   Nonconforming uses.
      (1)   One hundred percent expansion of the number of bed units allowed
under an existing nonconforming use within original camp boundary.
      (2)   Where dwelling units are combined with nonresidential uses or
structures on a conforming lot, then each 800 square feet, or fraction thereof,
of area occupied by such shall be deducted from the total density formula area
in determining the number of units allowed.
      (3)   Existing camps may be exempted from the requirements of this
chapter, except in the expansion of those camps, thereby areas of expansion
shall be in conformance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (4)   Cumulative expansion of 50% or more shall result in the full
compliance, except existing buildings, of the existing camp with the terms of
this chapter. Such expansion shall be within original camp boundaries.
(Ord. 08-44 § 450, passed 10-21-2008; Am. Ord. 15-110, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 153.050 OS DISTRICT (OPEN SPACE RESOURCE CONSERVATION ZONE).
   Permitted uses for the OS District (Open Space Resource Conservation Zone)
are as follows in this section.
   (A)   Purpose. This district is intended to preserve scenic and recreational
areas for public and/or private use.
      (1)   Agriculture and cultivation;
      (2)   Flood control facilities;
      (3)   Historical landmarks;
      (4)   Other outdoor recreational facilities;
      (5)   Public utility installation and facilities on one acre or less
following administrative review with comment period; and
      (6)   Change of use. Any change in the status of use shall be reviewed by
the Planning and Zoning Commission, with recommendations to the Town Council.
   (B)   Yard requirements. Building height and building density shall be in
accordance with the provisions of the density district.
   (C)   Signs.  Two signs, each sign not to exceed six square feet of panel
area, may be permitted. Signs may utilize indirect illumination.
(Ord. 08-44 § 460, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 153.051 OVERLAY ZONES.
   (A)   Introduction. The following section shall be known and cited as the
"Town of Dewey-Humboldt Overlay Zone Ordinance," and shall be incorporated by
reference into the Zoning Regulations of the town, providing the enabling
ordinance for the creation of zones which are to be "overlaid" or superimposed
on the general provisions and the use districts for the purposes specified
herein.
   (B)   Design Review Overlay ("DRO") Zones.
      (1)   Purpose. A Design Review Overlay (DRO) Zone enables the
establishment of additional design and development-related requirements or
guidelines which would overlay or be superimposed upon the regulations for the
existing zoning districts and general provisions applicable to a specific
geographic area. The creation and administration of a specific geographic area
DRO zone is authorized for the purpose of enriching the lives of the population
residing, working and visiting in the area by promoting harmonious, safe,
attractive, desirable and compatible growth and development of the area. Each
DRO zone is thus intended to improve the public health, safety and welfare by
pursuing objectives, including but not limited to the following:
         (a)   To ensure that the design and construction of all developments
and structures within the DRO zone support or enhance the community character
or value of the area within the zone;
         (b)   To ensure that all structures and developments within the DRO
zone conform with the aesthetic character of their surroundings by properly
relating to their site or sites;
         (c)   To ensure that the design and development of all structures,
projects, roads, plantings, drainage ways and service facilities within the DRO
zone protect and enhance the environmental qualities such as air, water,
natural vegetation, scenic vistas and topography;
         (d)   To ensure the proper provision for design for proposed open
spaces, parking areas, landscaping, signing and screening of noncompatible
uses;
         (e)   To ensure the protection and enhancement of economic values,
natural attractiveness, personal health and safety, and desirable relationships
with the surrounding community; and
         (f)   To ensure compliance with other requirements of this chapter,
the Town General Plan and any specific area plans relating to the DRO zone.
      (2)   Scope.
         (a)   A DRO zone may be created to apply to the design and
construction of any structure within the geographic boundaries of the zone,
which requires a building permit (including sign permit) within the scope and
jurisdiction of the Town Planning and Zoning Ordinance. A DRO zone may also be
created to apply to the design and development of nonstructural features which
do not in and of themselves require a building permit, but which pertain to the
purposes of the DRO zone and the Planning and Zoning Ordinance.
         (b)   A DRO zone may be created to apply to any or all use districts
within its zone and to any or all uses within the use district, including but
not limited to the following: single family residential, multi-family
residential, recreational, commercial, industrial and semi-public uses.
         (c)   A DRO zone may establish guidelines or requirements in addition
to the general provisions and use districts on which it is overlaid. Design
guidelines or requirements for a DRO zone may include, but are not limited to
architectural style, landscaping, façades and theme treatments, historic
preservation considerations; building colors and materials, scenic areas,
public facilities and utilities.
         (d)   The content of the design guidelines and requirements (along
with other particulars herein described) shall be determined by the owners of
private property within the area proposed for a DRO zone.
         (e)   A DRO zone shall include private properties owned by a minimum
of three separate owners of record of three separate properties and shall have
a minimum size of 20 contiguous acres or shall contain a minimum of 20 legal
lots or parcels.
         (f)   The geographic area of a DRO zone shall fall entirely within the
incorporated area of the town and shall constitute one contiguous area.
         (g)   A DRO zone shall not geographically overlap any other DRO zone,
nor shall there be permitted any "islands" of non-DRO area completely
surrounded by a DRO zone. However, a DRO zone may be surrounded by a subsequent
DRO zone.
         (h)   Public land may be included in the area of a DRO zone; however,
the DRO provisions shall not apply to the design, construction or development
of publicly owned and operated facilities. Public agencies are encouraged to
voluntarily comply with the guidelines of the DRO zone within which they are
developing. Whenever public land is included in the geographic area of a DRO
zone, signatures representing public land shall not be counted nor shall the
acreage of the public land be included in any calculations of required area.
However, wherever public land is included in a DRO zone, and the public land
forms the perimeter of the DRO zone, the private land outside the DRO zone
within 300 feet of the perimeter shall be included for purposes of the
"external petitions" required in division (B)(4)(d) below. Whenever public land
included in a DRO zone is used for private purposes and/or whenever such land
comes into private ownership, the guidelines and requirements of the DRO zone
shall become applicable.
      (3)   Nomination process.
         (a)   Nomination. Any group of three or more separate owners of record
of three separate properties within the town may delineate an area containing
their properties (and perhaps others) and nominate that area for a possible DRO
zone. Nomination of a DRO zone shall be by letter to the Planning and Zoning
Commission describing the geographic extent and proposed content of the DRO
zone, together with signatures of supporting property owners as well as any
local community groups wishing to express support of the DRO zone.
         (b)   Staff consultation. Upon receipt of the nomination letter, the
Zoning Administrator shall arrange and hold a consultation with one or more
representatives of the nominating group to discuss the procedure, regulations,
plans, fees and other matters relating to the creation and administration of a
DRO zone. When the Zoning Administrator is satisfied as to the state of
preparation of the nominating group, the Zoning Administrator shall recommend
to the Planning and Zoning Commission that the nomination for a DRO zone be
discussed in a public hearing.
         (c)   Public discussion. The members of the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall form a hearing committee and hold a public hearing within (or
as near as practicable to) the proposed DRO zone area after due public notice,
publication and posting within the area. The minimum hearing fee shall be paid
by the nominating group for the application for public discussion.
         (d)   Invitation to apply. After discussion, the Planning and Zoning
Commission may invite the nominating group to develop and submit a formal DRO
zone application. No more than one DRO nomination will be accepted for formal
application for any one area (i.e., no duplication or overlaps) at any one
time. If several DRO zone applications are known to be in preparation for the
same or adjacent general areas, the Planning and Zoning Commission may delay
one or more applications to foster integration, consistency, compatibility or
feasibility for the welfare of the larger community.
      (4)   Application process.
         (a)   Preparation. The nominating group shall prepare a full DRO zone
application meeting the content requirements below. Upon completion, the
nominating group shall submit the application to the Zoning Administrator for
an advisory review of content and completeness.
         (b)   Filing. When advised of the completeness of the application, the
nominating group shall file the application, along with an application fee,
with the Zoning Administrator. Additional copies of the application shall be
placed at points of local availability for review by local property owners in
such locations as may be approved by the Zoning Administrator. Any change in
the geographic area, content or other material change in the proposed DRO zone
shall constitute a new application and shall require a complete new recording
or an amendment to the original master form stating the specific portion or
portions to be changed or deleted by reference to page and paragraph.
         (c)   Owners of record. The nominating group shall prepare and submit
a certified list of the names, addresses, County Assessor's parcel numbers, and
acreage of parcels of every owner of record of every parcel (as of the date of
recording of the draft DRO zone) within the proposed DRO zone. The nominating
group shall pay the cost (if any) of copying and/or computer services necessary
to produce and certify this list.
         (d)   Support petitions from within the DRO zone. Within 12 months of
the date of recording of the filed application, the nominating group shall
obtain and submit to the Zoning Administrator the signatures, indicating
support, of 57% by area and by number of the owners of record of properties
within the defined DRO zone, on a petition which specifies the geographic area
and the content of the DRO zone together with a citation of the recording of
the full formal application.
         (e)   Certified list. The nominating group shall also prepare and
submit a certified list of the names, addresses and County Assessor's parcel
numbers of every owner of record of every parcel (as of the date or recording
of the draft DRO zone) within 300 feet of the perimeter of the proposed DRO
zone.
         (f)   Time limit. Failure to obtain the required percentage of valid
signatures for the internal area of the DRO within 12 months of the recording
of the application shall constitute a failure of the application. New updated
application together with new petition signatures shall be required to proceed
after a failed application.
      (5)   Application content requirements.  The filed application shall
include the following minimum information:
         (a)   A proposed name for the DRO zone;
         (b)   A reproducible map showing the proposed geographic coverage of
the DRO zone;
         (c)   A letter from the Planning and Zoning Commission staff attesting
to the completeness of the application;
         (d)   A cover letter generally describing the area, purpose and
content of the DRO zone signed by a representative of the nominating group;
         (e)   A list of the names and addresses of the nominating group;
         (f)   The name, address and telephone number of one or more persons
willing to serve as a speaker and source of public information concerning the
DRO zone nomination;
         (g)   A legal description specifying the outer boundaries of the
proposed geographic area of the DRO zone;
         (h)   A citation of the portions of the Town of Dewey-Humboldt General
Plan and any area plans which relate to the geographic scope of the proposed
DRO zone;
         (i)   A citation of the zoning maps (by Assessor's parcel map system
number) for all areas covered by and within 300 feet of the perimeter of the
DRO zone;
         (j)   The proposed development scope or content proposed to be
regulated by guidelines or requirements within the DRO zone;
         (k)   A detailed sample of the proposed criteria list, charts,
guidelines or other specifications to be provided to each applicant requesting
review and the standards against which each application will be reviewed;
         (l)   A schedule of proposed application review fees to be charged for
local design review overlay applicants, if any; and
         (m)   All other information which the Planning and Zoning Commission,
serving as the DRO Commissioner, Zoning Administrator, or Town Council may deem
necessary.
      (6)   DRO zone adoption process.
         (a)   Certification. Upon receipt of the lists of owners of record and
the petitions containing the required signatures on both the internal approval
and external consent petitions together with such hearing fees as may be
adopted, the Zoning Administrator shall certify the validity of the signatures
on both petitions.
         (b)   Area hearings. Upon certification of the petitions, the Planning
and Zoning Commission shall appoint a committee from among its members to hold
at least one public hearing within the area of the proposed DRO zone. The
hearing committee of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall report to the
full Planning and Zoning Commission its recommendation as to the readiness of
the DRO zone for full public hearings. The Planning and Zoning Commission may
move to direct the hearing committee to hold additional hearings in the area as
may be necessary to ensure adequate public information.
         (c)   Planning and Zoning Commission hearings.
            1.   All hearings by the Planning and Zoning Commission and Town
Council shall follow procedural requirements of the A.R.S. and the Planning and
Zoning Ordinance of the town. After the area public hearings, the Planning and
Zoning Commission shall then advertise and hold a public hearing in a regular
Planning and Zoning Commission meeting and formulate a recommendation to the
Town Council as to the general advisability and particulars of the proposed DRO
zone.
            2.   Town Council hearings. Subsequently, the Town Council shall
hold a public hearing to consider the adoption of the DRO zone as proposed and/
or amended. The Town Council shall hear the DRO application as recorded
together with the Planning and Zoning Commission's recommendations and public
input. At the first Town Council hearing, the Council may only approve or deny
the DRO application as recorded or move to hold in abeyance or move to amend
and re-hear (with re-advertisement calling attention to the content of the
proposed amendment(s)). At the second and subsequent Town Council public
hearings, the Council may approve duly advertised amendments.
      (7)   Amendments to the DRO Zone. 
         (a)   Amendment. After adoption, any amendment to a DRO Zone which in
the determination of the Zoning Administrator materially alters the area
coverage and/or the content of the design guidelines or requirements or their
applicability shall follow the same procedural and content requirements
specified for the original nomination, application and adoption of a DRO zone.
         (b)   Recision. The recision of a DRO zone shall follow the same
procedure and requirements as any amendment, except as provided below for
abandonment.
         (c)   Abandonment. A DRO zone may be abandoned upon the initiation of
the Planning and Zoning Commission according to the following procedures:
            1.   The Planning and Zoning Commission in discussion moves to
initiate a public hearing to consider a finding of fact.
            2.   The Planning and Zoning Commission, in public hearing, adopts
a finding of fact of extraordinary circumstances (including but not limited to
substantial unworkability of the DRO zone; de facto abandonment of the DRO zone
by the property owners; nonfeasance, misfeasance and/or malfeasance by the DRO
Commission; impending public turmoil or other threat to the public welfare) and
upon the basis of such finding initiate a second public hearing to consider the
abandonment of the DRO zone.
            3.   The Planning and Zoning Commission, in public hearing, adopts
a recommendation to the Town Council to abandon the DRO zone.
            4.   The Town Council, in public hearing:
               a.   Concurs in the finding of fact of extraordinary
circumstances; and
               b.   Adopts the Planning and Zoning Commission recommendation to
abandon the DRO zone.
      (8)   DRO Commission. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall serve as
the DRO (Local DRO Zone Review) Commission.
      (9)   Implementation.
         (a)   A DRO zone shall be created and its guidelines and requirements
shall become effective 30 days after its adoption as a zone by the Town
Council. The adopted DRO zone and its contents and geographic scope shall be on
file in the office of the Zoning Administrator. Each DRO zone shall be numbered
and its geographic scope depicted on the official zoning maps of the town in
the office of the Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   Upon adoption and after the effective date of a DRO zone, any
person intending to construct any structure within the jurisdiction of the Town
Planning and Zoning Ordinance, before applying for a building permit from the
Zoning Administrator, shall first submit an application to the DRO Commission,
who shall schedule and hold a review in public hearing.
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator shall withhold the issuance of the
building permit in a DRO zone for a period sufficient to permit adequate public
notice, the holding of hearing by the DRO Commission and a ten-working day
response period following the decision of the DRO Commission.
         (d)   The DRO Commission shall forward its recommendation to the
Zoning Administrator. Giving due consideration to the recommendation of the DRO
Commission, the Zoning Administrator or Building Official shall issue or
withhold the requested building permit, notifying both the applicant and the
DRO Commission. The withholding of a building permit on grounds relating to the
recommendation of the DRO Review Commission shall be in the form of a letter to
the applicant and to the DRO Commission citing the reasons for the refusal.
      (10)   Appeals. Any applicant for a building permit who is refused a
building permit on grounds relating to the recommendation of the DRO
Commission, or the DRO Commission itself, or any affected party, including any
owner of property within the DRO zone, may appeal the decision of the Zoning
Administrator to the Board of Adjustments. The appeal must be made within 30
days of the issuance of the building permit or its refusal, pursuant to §
153.021.
      (11)   Compliance. The failure to construct any structure within the DRO
zone in a manner consistent with the content of the building permit and the
application as approved by the DRO Commission shall constitute a violation of
the Planning and Zoning Ordinance. Citation of a violation of the DRO zone
requirements and guidelines shall be initiated by either the Zoning
Administrator or by a signed complaint from the DRO Commission adopted and
forwarded to the Zoning Administrator.
      (12)   Authority. The Town Council hereby authorizes the creation and
administration of Design Review Overlay Zones adopted consistent with this
enabling section and the Town Planning and Zoning Ordinance of which this is a
part.
(Ord. § 470, passed 9-4-2008)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 153.065 GENERAL DISTRICT PROVISIONS.
   The following provisions shall apply to all districts, except as may be
modified, supplemented or supplanted under the provisions of any particular
district.
(Ord. § 500, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 153.066 ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Accessory uses (including facilities and equipment) are permitted in
conjunction with any principal use, provided same is compatible and common to
the district in which it is located therewith and does not alter the character
of the premises; any reference to a permitted use shall be deemed to include
such accessory use.
   (B)   Accessory buildings may be attached to or detached from the principal
building, except that no accessory building housing fowl or animals (other than
domestic pets) may be attached to any dwelling unit, except that an accessory
dwelling unit shall be detached, subject to the performance standards set forth
in §
153.075.5.
   (C)   Amateur radio towers and antennas are permitted in all residential
districts, with a use permit, provided:
      (1)   The structures shall not be located in the required front yard, or
required street side yard, or in front of the front line of the dwelling or
principal building;
      (2)   The structure shall in no case be located nearer than five feet to
any side or rear property line;
      (3)   The structure does not exceed a height of 15 feet within a required
side or rear yard;
      (4)   The structure does not exceed the maximum building height of the
zoning district in which the structure is located;
      (5)   Not more than two such structures shall be erected per lot or
parcel; and
      (6)   The tower and antenna shall be retractable.
   (D)   Accessory uses or structures are allowed prior to installation of the
principal structure only when a construction permit is issued for the principal
structure and construction of same is commenced within six months.
   (E)   Animal husbandry activities or projects, i.e., Future Farmers of
America, 4-H, or any agricultural or large livestock activity/project conducted
primarily for educational purposes or school credits, are permitted in any
zoning district. The following criteria shall be met:
      (1)   Active membership must be maintained and verification of such may
be required upon request.
      (2)   The keeping of all animals shall be subject to the regulations of
the Yavapai County Environmental Unit and the Health Department.
      (3)   (a)   A sign designating a 4-H member is in residence must be
posted on the property at all times any such project or activity is in
progress.
         (b)   Under the 4-H exemption, the setback requirements and number of
animals allowed per acre do not apply for animals utilized in 4-H projects,
with the exception of equine and breeding projects.
   (F)   Allowed animal chart.
 
Allowed Animal Chart
Type                                                           Animals Allowed
Category A - Dairy cow, bison, steer/heifer, horse or other    2 per acre*
similar size/weight
Category B - Ostrich, miniature horse, llama, alpaca, sheep,   5 per acre*
goat, emu or other of similar size/weight
Category C - Turkeys, peacocks, geese, pheasants, ducks,
pigeons, chinchillas, rabbits, chickens or other similar size/ 8 per acre*
weight toward the total. After one year of age, animal off-
spring count as adult animals
*And proportionately greater for larger properties
 
(Ord. 08-44 § 501, passed 10-21-2008; Am. Ord. 15-110, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 153.067 ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW WITH COMMENT PERIOD.
   Those uses subject to administrative review with comment period must go
through the following process. The applicant will submit a to-scale site plan
illustrating the proposed use for review. The administrative review would
include review by all affected agencies such as but not necessarily limited to
Planning and Zoning Department, Building Safety and the Fire District with
jurisdiction. Surrounding property owners within 300 feet of the subject
property and affected community organizations shall be notified by mail
(mailing list and addressed envelopes provided by applicant) and posted on the
property and given 21 days from the date of mailing of notice to file written
protest with the Zoning Administrator. If an administrative review with comment
period application is denied by the Zoning Administrator, the applicant may
then apply for a use permit, and appeal the decision before the Planning and
Zoning Commission and Town Council, if desired. If the application for
administrative review with comment period is found acceptable by the reviewing
agencies with no written protest received from the noticed public, the Zoning
Administrator will accept and issue appropriate or needed building permits and/
or issue a letter approving the use subject to applicable standards.
Application fees are as found in the adopted fee schedule set forth in Appendix
A to this chapter.
(Ord. § 504, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 153.068 BED AND BREAKFASTS.
   (A)   Bed and breakfast homestays, as defined under §
153.005, are subject to the following regulations and performance standards:
      (1)   Homestays shall only be permitted on parcels exceeding 35,000
square feet in size;
      (2)   No employees;
      (3)   Facility shall be owner-occupied with no more than 50% of the floor
area of the primary structure used for guest quarters or bed and breakfast
purposes;
      (4)   Access to the guestrooms shall be allowed through the main entrance
of the building only;
      (5)   State and County Health Department approval and permits are
required;
      (6)   Change of use or occupancy and zoning and building safety
clearance/permit required prior to commencement of the use;
      (7)   No more than three guest units shall be available for rental. A
guest unit consisting of more than one room shall not be constructed, converted
or modified so as to permit division into separate guest units;
      (8)   Maximum duration of stay of any one guest shall be 14 days;
      (9)   In addition to the required parking for the owner of the homestay,
one parking space per guest unit shall be provided on site in accordance with
the parking standards in §
153.110; and
      (10)   One sign, for identification purposes, not exceeding four square
feet in size may be attached to the primary structure or placed in the front
yard no higher than three feet above grade.
   (B)   Bed and breakfast inns, as defined under §
153.005, are subject to the following regulations and performance standards:
      (1)   Facility shall be owner-occupied with no more than 75% of the total
floor area or structural coverage used for guest quarters or bed and breakfast
purposes;
      (2)   Change of use or occupancy and zoning and building safety
clearance/permit required prior to commencement of the use;
      (3)   In addition to the required parking for the owner of the Inn, one
parking space per guest unit and employee shall be provided on site in
accordance with the parking standards in §
153.110; and
      (4)   One sign for identification purposes, not exceeding six square feet
in size, may be attached to the primary structure or placed in the front yard
no higher than three feet above grade.
(Ord. § 507, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 153.069 DENSITY DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The following density districts and regulations are intended to be
combined with the appropriate use districts. The density provisions in the
accompanying chart, together with applicable general provisions (§
153.065) as excepted below in divisions (C) and (D), shall regulate building
heights, yards, lot sizes, lot area per dwelling unit, lot coverage and
distance between buildings as though the same had been fully described in this
section.
   (B)   Requirements of the density regulations are set forth in the table
that follows.
Density Regulations
Density Regulations
Legend: A=Acres
                          Min   Min(1)   Min      Min      Min(1)   Max       Max               Min
      Min Lot   Min Area  Lot   Yard     (1,2)    (1,2)    Yard     Building  Building Max Lot  Building
Dist. Size (in  per       Width Setbacks Yard     Yard     Setbacks Height    Height   Coverage Spacing
      Sq. Ft.)  dwelling  and   Front    Setbacks Setbacks Exterior (Stories) (Feet)   (%)      (Feet)
                          Depth          Rear     Interior
1     7,500     1,000     75    20       25       7        10       4(3)      50       50       10
2     7,500     2,000     75    20       25       7        10       3(3)      40       50       10
3     7,500     3,000     75    20       25       7        10       2         30       50       10
4     7,500     4,000     75    20       25       7        10       2         30       50       10
5     7,500     5,000     75    20       25       7        10       2         30       50       10
7.5   7,500     7,000     75    20       25       7        10       2         30       50       10
10    10,000    10,000    80    20       25       7        10       2         30       40       10
12    12,000    12,000    90    20       25       7        10       2         30       40       10
18    18,000    18,000    100   30       30       10       15       2         30       25       10
25    25,000    25,000    130   30       30       10       15       2         30       20       10
35    35,000    35,000    145   40       40       20       20       2         30       15       10
70    70,000    70,000    200   50       50       25       30       2         30       15       10
2A    87,120    87,120    225   50       50       25       30       2         30       10       10
175   175,000   175,000   300   50       50       30       50       2         30       10       10
5A    217,800   217,800   325   50       50       40       50       2         30       10       10
10A   435,600   435,600   500   50       50       50       50       2         30       5        10
36A   1,568,160 1,568,160 500   50       50       50       50       2         30       5        10
Notes:
(1)   See yards and courts in §
153.093 for exceptions, deviations, and encroachments from minimum yard (setback) requirements.
(2)   For C1, C2, C3, M1 and M2 Districts: Minimum interior side and rear yard requirements are waived
if the yard is contiguous to C1, C2, C3, M1 or M2 zoned property. A setback of 20 feet shall be required
whenever a lot zoned commercial or industrial abuts a lot zoned for residential purposes. Front and
exterior side yard requirements shall be observed in all cases.
(3)   Use permit required to exceed two stories.
 
   (C)   Detached accessory structures, other than structures housing animals,
may encroach within five feet to rear lot line to maintain a ten-foot building
separation. All other setbacks and building spacing separations must be
achieved.
   (D)   The above is general information pertinent to the zoning requirements
in the creation of a buildable parcel. It does not deal with specific
questions, such as building safety, floodplain unit, environmental unit or
engineering. These departments should be contacted before any actual splitting
is pursued.
(Ord. 08-44 §516, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 153.070 DENSITY FORMULAS.
   Density formulas are hereby established for each density district for the
purpose of determining (where applicable) the amount of lot area required for
each dwelling unit, hotel or motel unit, or mobile home court space.
   (A)   In applying density formulas to determine the number of units allowed
on a lot, credit shall be allowed for the area of any contiguous dedicated half
street or half alley (or similar dedicated easements).
   (B)   Where dwelling units are combined with nonresidential uses or
structures on a conforming lot, then each 800 square feet (or fraction thereof)
of area occupied by such shall be deducted from the total density formula area
in determining the number of units allowed.
   (C)   The density may be reduced 20% for any units consisting of a combined
bed-living room (commonly referred to as an efficiency apartment).
(Ord. § 519, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 153.071 DRAINAGE CRITERIA MANUAL.
   In all instances with the exception of single family residential and
accessory uses, a drainage report for storm water planning, analysis and design
and construction in accordance with the Yavapai County Drainage Criteria Manual
(Resolution #1151) shall be submitted. The Flood Control District Director may
grant a waiver from the need to comply with certain sections of the Drainage
Criteria Manual requirements in instances where it is determined that there are
limited impacts from surface drainage and a detailed drainage report is not
needed to achieve the objectives of the Drainage Criteria Manual, or to protect
property, or the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the community
with regard to flooding and drainage issues. All permitted uses shall be
constructed in accordance with the construction requirements in the approved
drainage plan.
(Ord. § 522, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 153.072 [RESERVED].
§ 153.073 DWELLING PROHIBITION.
   Dwelling prohibition in any district shall not be construed to prohibit from
any lot the residential facilities to accommodate one individual (and his or
her family) acting in the capacity of manager, caretaker or watchman.
(Ord. § 528, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 153.074 FUEL STORAGE TANKS IN CONJUNCTION WITH AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE FACILITY.
   (A)   As an open land use (requiring underground storage tanks, with
dispensing mechanism equal to or better than minimum requirements of
Underwriters Laboratories, Inc.); or
   (B)   As having aboveground fuel storage of less than 40,000 cumulative
gallons capacity, where a variance has been obtained from the Office of the
State Fire Marshal from the prohibition of the International Fire Code from
dispensing motor vehicle fuel from aboveground fuel storage tank(s) per current
International Fire Code. Installation of aboveground tanks will require the
granting of a use permit and shall include the following performance criteria/
standards:
      (1)   The design of the proposed facility shall meet the standards of the
Office of the State Fire Marshal.
      (2)   The parcel or lot shall be of sufficient size to meet all parking
and automobile circulation requirements set out by this chapter. Aboveground
storage tank(s) shall not be permitted on lots or parcels not meeting current
parking or circulation standards.
      (3)   Aboveground fuel storage tank(s) shall be spaced apart a minimum
distance as set forth in the current International Fire Code.
      (4)   Guard posts for protection from vehicular damage shall be provided
per current International Fire Code.
      (5)   A minimum setback or separation of 100 feet shall be maintained to
the nearest residentially zoned parcel or "R" residential occupancy building as
specified under the International Building Code.
(Ord. § 531, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 153.075 GOLF COURSE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose.  To ensure that every golf course be developed and managed
with consideration for the unique conditions of the ecosystem of which it is a
part and specifically to minimize the use of groundwater for irrigation
purposes and encourage effluent or reuse. A development agreement with the town
is required for the development of any golf course and shall include the use of
effluent resulting from a wastewater treatment facility legally permitted by
the town and the Arizona Department of Environmental Quality.
   (B)   General requirements. The following requirements shall apply to the
development and processing of golf courses in conjunction with a PAD proposal
or any other golf course development:
      (1)   Applicant will be required to submit plans that demonstrate that
the proposed project meets the standards set by the Arizona Department of Water
Resource (ADWR) for golf courses in the Active Management Areas (AMA) including
limiting water usage to no more than 450 acre-feet per year (325,851 gallons in
one acre-foot of water) and limiting the amount of turf area to no more than 90
acres.
      (2)   Applicant to obtain a report of physical availability of water from
ADWR demonstrating an adequate water supply for the entire development
including the golf course prior to recording the final plat/final site plan and
prior to construction of the golf course.
      (3)   Applicant to demonstrate that the proposed development will be of
an appropriate size and scale to generate sufficient effluent or re-use water
to meet the entire irrigation needs of the golf course or demonstrate that an
alternative supply of effluent will be available.
      (4)   Applicant will be required to submit a water balance study and
phasing program for conversion and reliance on effluent using the town's format
and standard assumptions and criteria as a guide in preparing the study. The
Board may set a reasonable time for conversion from irrigating with groundwater
to irrigating with a renewable water supply.
      (5)   Applicant will be required to conduct a monitoring program as it
pertains to surface water and groundwater quality and quantity. The monitoring
program will be developed in concert with the appropriate approval authorities.
      (6)   Applicant will be required to conduct monitoring program as it
pertains to the performance of the wastewater treatment plant including
effluent discharge quality and quantity for review and approval by the town
staff or other appropriate agencies.
   (C)   Design and construction standards. Applicant will be required to
submit plans demonstrating that the golf course is designed, constructed and
maintained in accordance with environmental practices as set out in
Environmental Principles for Golf Courses in the United States or United States
Golf Course Association Guidelines, or similar or better recognized national
standards and which meet the following conditions:
      (1)   Emphasis shall be placed upon the design of irrigation, drainage
and retention systems that provide for the efficient use of water. Drainage and
storm water retention systems should be incorporated to help provide for both
the short and long-term irrigation needs of the maintained turf and the
unmaintained areas of the course.
      (2)   The course shall be designed with sustainable maintenance in mind.
The design shall incorporate resource conservation strategies that are
environmentally responsible, efficient and cost effective.
   (D)   Construction documents. Conceptual grading, drainage, irrigation,
clearing and landscaping plans will be required as part of the final site plan
application and in conjunction with a development plan. Plans must have
sufficient detail to demonstrate that the design, construction and maintenance
will incorporate environmental principles and meet the intent of the AMA
standards for golf courses.
(Ord. 08-44 § 534, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 153.075.5 ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU).
   Accessory dwelling units are subject to the following requirements:
   (A)   An accessory dwelling unit is permitted only on a minimum lot size of
70,000 square feet in the R1L and RMM Zoning Districts and a minimum lot size
of 35,000 square feet in the R1 Zoning District, and on all lots in the RCU
District where the minimum lot size is 87,120 square feet.
   (B)   Primary dwelling and accessory dwelling unit shall both comply with
the setback regulations set forth in §
153.069 Density Districts of this code.
   (C)   The accessory dwelling unit shall be serviced and metered by the
primary structure electric utility hookups. Individual accessory dwelling unit
septic systems may be approved where necessary in order to reduce sewer line
extensions as authorized by the County Environmental Unit.
   (D)   The primary and accessory dwelling unit structures shall share a
common driveway or entrance.
   (E)   An accessory dwelling unit structure shall not exceed 750 square feet
in size or 25% of the total square footage of the primary structure living area
under roof, whichever is greater.
   (F)   An accessory dwelling unit shall comply with the separation
requirements set forth in the town Building, Fire and Municipal Codes.
   (G)   A kitchen facility is permitted in an accessory dwelling unit
structure.
   (H)   An accessory dwelling unit shall be used to house a non-paying or non-
reimbursing relative or guest.
(Ord. 08-44 § 537, passed 10-21-2008; Am. Ord. 15-110, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 153.076 HEIGHT LIMITS.
   When designated in both stories and feet shall not exceed the foot
dimensions.
   (A)   Towers, poles, tanks and the like. The district height limitations may
be exceeded by five feet for spires, cupolas, chimneys, parapets or similar
structural additions integrated directly into the rooftop. The district height
limitations for buildings are not applicable for flues, vents, poles, beacons,
towers or other similar nonhabitable structure(s) extending above a room when
same occupies no more than 25% of such roof area. Unless shown by design (proof
of collapse safety), any such structure as enumerated above must be so located
on a lot that its reclining length, in case of collapse, would be contained
within the bounds thereof.
   (B)   Fences and freestanding walls.
      (1)   Height shall be determined for fences and walls above the average
elevation of the ground level within a six-foot radius of the point of
measurement on the fence or wall (see fence height calculation example below).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dabe9726ae38701612cdb69c32e218ccf7d4b064/
IMAGES/0-0-0-698.jpg]
 
      (2)   Fences and freestanding walls within the required yards/setbacks
shall maintain the following maximum heights for that opaque or solid portion
which obstructs the passage of air or light more than 50%:
         (a)   On any residential zoned lot (or that portion of other lots
contiguous thereto): four feet in front yard and six feet in side or rear
yards;
         (b)   On commercial and industrial zoned lots: eight feet;
         (c)   Four feet on any portion of the rear one-third of a corner lot
backing to a key lot by a line joining required key lot setback and the street
right-of-way intersection;
         (d)   Three feet within the triangular area formed by measuring ten
feet along the boundary of roadways and drives from the intersection thereof
(including hedges and other plantings). Height may be increased not to exceed
four feet, provided the height increase does not hamper visibility for traffic
safety; or
         (e)   Where a fence or wall is required as a screening or other
protection to residential zoned lots, such shall comply to the height limits of
the residential zoned lot.
      (3)   Total height (solid plus any nonsolid portions) shall not exceed
the stated opaque or solid maximums by more than 50% for residential lots or
contiguous thereto and by more than 25% for commercial and industrial zoned
lots.
   (C)   Buildings.  
      (1)   No portion of any building exceeding a height of four feet shall
occupy the triangular area formed by measuring ten feet along the right-of-way
lines from the intersection thereof (see example below).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dabe9726ae38701612cdb69c32e218ccf7d4b064/
IMAGES/0-0-0-701.jpg]
 
      (2)   Buildings located on sloping lots equal or greater than 26% average
slope are permitted an extra story on the downhill side, provided the building
height does not exceed the maximum height in feet allowed in the district.
(Ord. 08-44 § 540, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 153.077 HOME OCCUPATION.
   (A)   Review criteria.
      (1)   Incidental. A home occupation shall be conducted in a primary
dwelling or in an attached or detached accessory structure and shall be clearly
incidental to the use of the primary structure as a dwelling or accessory
structure as a garage, workshop, storage shed or barn.
      (2)   Appearance. In no way shall the appearance of the structure or
premises be so altered or the conduct of the occupation within the structure be
such that it can be recognized as serving a nonresidential use (either by
color, materials, construction, lighting, signs, sounds or noises, vibrations,
display of equipment and the like).
      (3)   Nuisance.  The home occupation shall not cause any sustained or
unpleasant noises, vibrations, noxious fumes, dust, odors or glare. The use
shall not create any radio or television interference or cause any parking or
additional traffic beyond what a normal single family residence would generate
in the immediate neighborhood.
      (4)   Employees. No one other than a resident of the dwelling shall be
employed in the conduct of a home occupation.
      (5)   Storage. No storage of materials and/or supplies, including
vehicles or equipment used in the occupation, indoors or outdoors, shall be
permitted which will be hazardous to surrounding neighbors or detrimental to
the residential character of the neighborhood. Outside storage shall be in
keeping with outside storage requirements for a single family residence per
this chapter.
      (6)   Vehicles. The home occupation shall not utilize or rely upon
delivery or service from large vehicles not customary in residential areas.
      (7)   Traffic. The use shall not generate pedestrian or vehicular traffic
beyond that normal to the district in which it is located.
      (8)   Signage. Signage shall be in keeping with §§
153.125 through
153.130  regarding nameplate identification signage for a residence and shall
not advertise the home occupation.
   (B)   Enforcement. Home occupations, where permitted, shall be subject to
issuance of a home occupation permit and shall comply with the noted criteria.
The home occupation application shall be subject to review by the Zoning
Administrator at any time. Violation of any of the criteria for a home
occupation as set out in this chapter shall be grounds for cancellation of the
home occupation permit. The Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to
revoke the home occupation permit if it has been demonstrated that the terms
and conditions of this section have been violated.
   (C)   Appeal. A decision of the Zoning Administrator approving, disapproving
or imposing conditions, regarding the home occupation, may be appealed to the
Board of Adjustment. Appeal is subject to an application for appeal being on
file with the Zoning Administrator within 30 days of notification of action
taken on the home occupation.
(Ord. 08-44 § 543, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 153.078 [RESERVED].
§ 153.079 [RESERVED].
§ 153.080 LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING.
   (A)   Purpose. This section provides standards for the installation and
maintenance of landscaping, walls and screening devices in order to preserve
and enhance the natural environment and beauty of the town, to minimize the
adverse effects of development, and to promote the general welfare of the
citizens of the town. Landscaping materials, including ground cover, shrubs and
trees facilitate the control of erosion and the reduction of glare and dust,
and soften the visual impact of building masses. Walls and screening devices
allow the separation of potentially incompatible uses and the buffering of road
noise and intensive activities. Landscaping, walls and screening devices
together help to effectuate privacy, logical development and enhancement of
property values. In order to preserve the unique natural character of the town,
these standards emphasize the retention of native trees, shrubs, rock
formations and other natural site features. To conserve water resources, use of
drought tolerant plant materials and efficient irrigation systems is
encouraged.
   (B)   Applicability. This section shall apply to:
      (1)   All new multi-family and nonresidential development;
      (2)   Change of use from residential to nonresidential where town
approvals are required;
      (3)   Change of use from single family to multi-family residential where
town approvals are required; and
      (4)   Expansion, remodeling and renovation of existing buildings on a lot
or building tract, or a related or stand-alone parking lot shall provide an
amount of landscaping and screening commensurate with the level or scale of the
improvements.
   (C)   General requirements.
      (1)   Landscape and site plan.   
         (a)   All proposed buildings and uses shall be shown on a landscape
and site plan prepared by an Arizona registrant, unless waived by the Zoning
Administrator. Landscaping shall be installed per approved plan unless
otherwise modified by the Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   All landscape and site plans shall indicate:
            1.   Location of existing and proposed buildings, parking areas,
drainage and street improvements;
            2.   Location of existing trees outside of building footprints;
            3.   Locations and general types of landscaped treatment areas,
i.e., lawn areas, low-water use areas and inorganic areas;
            4.   Proposed plant or inorganic materials to be used in each
treatment area;
            5.   Underground irrigation systems to be used in each planted
area; and
            6.   Curbs, walls and screening devices.
      (2)   Location of utilities and drainage facilities.
         (a)   Proposed utilities shall be located, when possible, so that
their installation will not adversely affect vegetation to be retained on a
site.
         (b)   Drainage ways and detention basins may be located within
landscaped areas when designed compatible with the planted area and plant
species.
      (3)   Installation.  Landscaping, underground irrigation systems, walls
and screening structures shall be installed in accordance with the approved
landscape or screening plan prior to issuance of a final certificate of
occupancy for the building or use. The Building Official may grant a temporary
certificate of occupancy for up to six months when a performance bond is
provided by the applicant to guarantee the completion of any incomplete
landscape or screening improvements.
      (4)   Maintenance requirements.
         (a)   Unless otherwise specified, the maintenance of landscaping in
the public right-of-way is the responsibility of the adjacent property owner,
whether an individual, corporation or homeowners' association.
         (b)   Landscaped areas shall be reasonably maintained by the owner or
the lessee of the property, including pruning, trimming, weeding, and other
requirements necessary to create an attractive appearance for the development.
Lack of maintenance of required landscaping material shall constitute a
violation of this Code.
         (c)   Plant materials not surviving shall be replaced within 90 days
of their demise.
      (5)   Landscaping in rights-of-way. Approval of the Public Works Director
is required prior to placing landscaping and other improvements in rights-of-
way.
      (6)   Irrigation. All required landscaped areas shall include a
permanent, underground water irrigation system as defined herein to ensure the
long-term health and growth of the landscape. Irrigation system design shall
take into consideration the water-demand characteristics of plant or landscape
materials used. Alternative irrigation systems may be approved the Zoning
Administrator subject to proven effectiveness.
      (7)   Site disturbance. Any portion of a site disturbed by site
preparation and/or construction, especially cut or fill slopes, shall be
adequately revegetated and stabilized, prior to issuance of a certificate of
occupancy.
   (D)   Existing vegetation; replacement and credits.
      (1)   To the extent practical, existing significant landscape features
shall be preserved and incorporated into the final landscape and site plans.
Existing landscaping may be used to meet the requirements of this Code if it
meets the purpose and intent of this section and is included on the approved
landscape plan. Such vegetation shall be protected during all phases of site
development and given sufficient area and means for growth and water
absorption. A credit of up to a 200% may be allowed toward shrubs otherwise
required pursuant to divisions (E), (F) and (H) of this section for every shrub
greater than two square feet that is preserved or transplanted.
      (2)   The tree replacement requirement shall be 50% of the total caliper
of trees removed from outside of the building envelope. A 200% credit toward
the tree replacement requirement shall be granted for retaining and preserving
healthy trees four inches or greater in caliper size, excluding Siberian elm.
This tree credit shall also count toward required landscaping in divisions (E),
(F) and (H) below. Trees to be preserved shall be adequately protected from
vehicles, undermining or collapse.
   (E)   Minimum landscaping standards. All undeveloped areas of each lot or
tract and the adjacent right-of-way or parkway shall be landscaped with trees,
shrubs, grasses, ground cover and other organic and assorted inorganic
materials that create an attractive appearance in accordance with the
requirements of this section; provided, however, smooth concrete or asphalt
surfaces are not landscaping. Clustering of trees and shrubs is encouraged.
      (1)   Trees, shrubs and grasses.  Recommended plant materials for on-site
landscaping are listed in the Plant Palette below. Minimum landscaping shall
include the following frequency and size of plantings:
         (a)   Trees. One tree shall be utilized per 25 linear feet (in no case
closer than 25 feet apart) of required landscaped area.
         (b)   Shrubs. Four shrubs per 250 square feet (or fraction thereof) of
required landscaped area shall be provided.
         (c)   Grasses, ground covers and inorganic materials. Any combination
of grasses, ground covers and inorganic materials may be used for the balance
of the required landscaping at the developer's discretion; however, a dressing
of gravel, decomposed granite or mulch shall be required to hold moisture, slow
runoff and restrain weed growth. Such dressing material shall be selected and
sized to withstand potential removal by wind and storm water flows.
      (2)   Plant types/minimum plant sizes. The following minimum plant size
requirements shall apply in all cases:
 
Plant Type/Minimum Plant Sizes
Deciduous trees    One to 1.5-inch caliper (measured one foot above ground)
Evergreen trees    5 feet tall
Shrubs             5-gallon container size, 18 inches tall
Woody ground cover 1-gallon container with 12-inch spread
 
      (3)   Landscape plant list.
         (a)   Public rights-of-way. Plants compiled in a list by the Arizona
Department of Water Resources for the Prescott AMA are required for use within
any public right-of-way where potable water is utilized for irrigation.
         (b)   All other properties. Plants used to satisfy landscape
requirements other than public rights-of-way are not specified in the interest
of property owner discretion and creativity. However, please see the
recommended plant list, or Plant Palette, in the commentary below.
   (F)   Parking area landscaping. Parking lot landscaping shall be subject to
the following minimum standards:
      (1)   Parking lot perimeters.
         (a)   Street frontages.
            1.   All parking lots adjacent to a street shall be landscaped with
a minimum width of ten feet on site (measured from the right-of-way edge), with
plantings as specified in division (E) above. Right-of-way edges shall be
cleaned up and integrated with the street frontage landscaping. The minimum
landscape strip may be reduced along part of the frontage, provided an average
landscaped width of ten feet is maintained along the overall frontage.
            2.   In addition, parking areas with street frontages longer than
200 feet shall be screened from street view to a height of three feet with a
masonry wall, berm or dense landscaping, or a combination of two or more of
these elements. Such walls shall utilize materials and otherwise be designed to
be compatible with the architecture of the principal structure on the site.
Landscaping shall be provided adjacent to the outside of such walls with
plantings as specified in division (E) of this section.
         (b)   Other parking perimeters.  Non-frontage perimeters of a parking
lot shall be landscaped with a five-foot wide landscape strip with plantings as
specified in division (E) above. This minimum landscape strip may be reduced to
three feet when a minimum three-foot high wall is provided in accordance with
division (F)(1)(a)2., above.
         (c)   Transfer of required landscaping. The Zoning Administrator may
approve the transfer of required parking area landscaping from required
locations to other locations on the site, provided the purpose for this section
is achieved.
         (d)   Landscape protection. All landscaped areas adjacent to vehicular
parking and access areas shall be protected by six-inch vertical concrete
curbing, six-inch pre-cast bumpers or similar materials in order to control
storm water flows and minimize damage by vehicular traffic. Vehicles may
overhang landscaped areas up to two feet into landscaped areas that are at
least five feet wide, but may not overhang sidewalks and other pedestrian
walkways. This provision applies equally to vehicle display areas.
      (2)   Landscaped islands. Parking lots with more than 50 spaces shall
provide landscaped parking islands according to the following standards:
         (a)   All landscaping parking islands shall be a minimum of four feet
wide and contain a minimum of 40 square feet in area; provided, however,
landscape islands may be aggregated into fewer and larger islands that meet
overall planting and area standards.
         (b)   A minimum of one tree and two shrubs for every ten parking
spaces shall be preserved or planted within the parking lot.
         (c)   No parking space is farther than 100 feet from a landscaped
area.
         (d)   These requirements may be modified upon approval of the Zoning
Administrator where exceptional design of the parking lot merits such
modification and where the intent of the standard is met through alternate
design schemes.
   (G)   Foundation plantings. One small (understory) tree and four shrubs per
50 linear feet of building wall shall be required within four-foot minimum
width planters along all building walls that are 50 feet or longer; provided,
however, that this requirement shall not apply where other required landscaping
adjoins the building or where such walls are not visible from surrounding
streets.
   (H)   Screening standards. Where screening is required by this Code, minimum
screening in accordance with the following standards shall apply in addition to
other applicable requirements. Existing vegetation or natural conditions may be
used to satisfy these requirements (see division (B) of this section).
      (1)   Screening materials. Screening may be accomplished by the use of
plants, earth berms, solid walls, or trees and shrubs in combination as
necessary to produce an effective screening from view off-site of the use or
facility requiring screening within a reasonable time.
      (2)   Screening plant list. Plants used to satisfy any required screening
standards shall be limited to plants with a mature height of between six and 15
feet and foliage characteristics similar to those of the recommended plants for
this purpose.
      (3)   Height of screening devices. The height of screening devices shall
be measured from the highest finished grade adjacent to the screening device to
maximize effectiveness in accordance with the maximum fence height
requirements.
      (4)   Outdoor storage areas. All outdoor storage areas for materials and
garbage containers, heavy equipment, or other similar items shall be screened
from street view by a minimum six-foot high screening device. Such screening
device shall consist of plant material and/or a wall constructed of or finished
with materials compatible with the principal structure on the site. See also
division (H)(6) below.
      (5)   Mechanical equipment.
         (a)   Roof-mounted equipment shall be screened from view from the
adjoining street(s) or alley(s) in a manner integrated with the roof structure
and color.
         (b)   Ground-mounted mechanical equipment shall be screened from off-
site view by a screening device consisting of either plant material, a wall
constructed of or finished with materials to match the principal structure on
the site, a lattice or other similar containment.
      (6)   Dumpsters and solid waste receptacles.
Dumpsters and receptacles shall be completely screened from view of adjacent
property in a more restrictive zoning district by opaque fence or wall that is
at least one foot taller than the dumpster or solid waste receptacle.
      (7)   Loading area. Loading areas shall be screened from view off-site on
three sides by a solid, fence, finished wall, or hedge at least six feet in
height.
(Ord. § 547, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 153.081 LIQUID PROPANE DISPENSING RETAIL.
   (A)   The design and operation of the proposed facility shall meet the
standards of the Office of the Arizona State Fire Marshal.
   (B)   The parcel or lot shall be of sufficient size to meet all parking and
automobile circulation requirements set out by this chapter. Aboveground
storage tanks shall not be permitted on lots or parcels not meeting current
parking or circulation standards.
   (C)   Aboveground L.P. (liquid propane) storage tank(s) shall be a minimum
of 25 feet from all property lines.
   (D)   Crash guards shall be installed on three-foot centers on all sides of
L.P. fuel storage tank(s) consisting of six-foot lengths of six-inch Schedule
40 steel and embedded in concrete two feet deep and 12 inches around.
   (E)   A minimum setback or separation of 100 feet shall be maintained from
the tank to the nearest residentially zoned parcel or "R" residential occupancy
building as specified under the International Building Code.
   (F)   The maximum size L.P. storage tank shall not exceed 2,000 gallons
(water capacity).
(Ord. § 549, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 153.082 MANUFACTURED HOUSING/MULTI-SECTIONAL MANUFACTURED HOUSING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Zoning requirements. Multi-sectional manufactured homes/manufactured
homes are subject to the design/performance standards which follow.
   (B)   Design/performance standards.
      (1)   All manufactured homes located within the incorporated area of the
town shall have an affixed "HUD" label certifying that the unit has been
manufactured in accordance with the July 1, 1976 Federal Guidelines promulgated
by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).
      (2)   Mobile homes, as defined in §
153.005, are prohibited as dwelling units on individual lots.
      (3)   All multi-sectional manufactured and manufactured homes located on
a parcel of land are to be serviced by an approved sewage disposal system prior
to habitation.
   (C)   Rehabilitation; mobile home rehabilitation. The placement or
relocation of a "pre-HUD" mobile home within the incorporated area of the town
shall only be authorized subject to the rehabilitation of the mobile home in
accordance with established performance criteria. Mobile homes shall not be
relocated and placed on-site prior to renovation and rehabilitation as provided
for in this chapter. The following requirements must be certified as being met
before any mobile home which is not certified as meeting HUD standards by the
Arizona Office of Manufactured Housing can be installed in the incorporated
area of the town. These requirements are from the Arizona Department of
Building and Fire Safety Regulations (ADBFSR) and the most current edition of
the International Residential Code and the International Property Maintenance
Code as adopted by the town.
      (1)   A smoke detector is installed in all rooms or hallways providing
access to sleeping rooms. This detector may be battery operated or hard wired
with a battery backup, and is installed according to its listing.
      (2)   The walls and ceiling of each gas-fired furnace and/or water heater
compartment, including doors, are lined with a minimum five-sixteenths inch
drywall. If the door opens directly to the outside, it need not be covered with
drywall if it is entirely of metal construction. Compartments which open to the
outside are sealed from the interior of the mobile home.
      (3)   Each sleeping room has egress directly to the exterior of the
mobile, either through a door, or a window of a minimum of 24 inches in clear
opening height and 20 inches in clear opening width and a minimum clear opening
of five square feet, and a sill height of no more than 36 inches.
      (4)   The electrical system has been tested for continuity to assure
proper bonding of all metallic parts.
      (5)   The electrical system has been tested for operation to demonstrate
that all parts (switches, outlets, light fixtures, panels and the like) are in
good working order.
      (6)   The electrical system has been given a polarity check to determine
that all connections are proper.
      (7)   The electrical system is properly protected for the required
amperage load.
      (8)   If the wiring in the mobile home is of aluminum conductors, all
switches and outlets connected directly to the conductors are marked CO/ALR.
      (9)   All exterior outlets are GFCI protected.
      (10)   Conductors of dissimilar metals (i.e., copper and aluminum) are
connected in accordance with NEC Section 110-14.
      (11)   The gas piping system has been tested with a mercury manometer or
slope gauge with appliance valves removed and piping capped at a minimum
pressure of three PSI for ten minutes without showing loss of pressure.
(ADBFSR)
      (12)   There is at least one room of at least 120 square feet, and all
habitable rooms are at least 70 square feet in size.
      (13)   There is at least one bathroom with a water closet, lavatory and a
bathtub or shower, all of which are in working order; this bathroom is
separated from other rooms of the mobile by a tight fitting door.
      (14)   There is a kitchen with a kitchen sink and cooking facilities.
      (15)   The mobile home is plumbed for hot and cold running water.
      (16)   The floor of the area surrounding the water closet is finished,
that is the floor surface is a finished material (e.g., tile, vinyl and the
like) not adversely affected by moisture.
      (17)   The mobile home is structurally protected to provide shelter for
the occupant against the elements and to exclude dampness. Windows and siding
are in place and in serviceable condition. SERVICEABLE shall mean all windows
are glazed and no openings boarded over. Siding shall be free of holes and
shall not exhibit undue or detrimental weathering.
      (18)   There are heating facilities capable of maintaining a temperature
of 70°F at a point three feet above the floor in all habitable rooms.
      (19)   Every habitable room has two electrical convenience outlets and
one electrical light fixture.
      (20)   The structure is safe. No conditions exist which endanger life,
limb, health, property, safety or welfare of the public or occupants.
   (D)   Certification.
      (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the permittee to demonstrate to
the Zoning Administrator that any mobile home for which an installation permit
is requested to be placed within the incorporated area of the town was
previously permitted or pre-existing within the town and is in compliance with
the requirements set forth in this chapter prior to installation.
      (2)   Upon completion and certification demonstrating that the unit meets
the prescribed rehabilitation requirements in this chapter, the Zoning
Administrator will issue a certificate of compliance for placement of each
unit.
      (3)   Upon completion of rehabilitation modifications as specified and
upon verification of same, a certificate of rehabilitation will be issued by
the Zoning Administrator. The certificate shall verify that the mobile home was
inspected on (date) by (qualified inspector named) and found to fully comply
with mobile home rehabilitation standards of this chapter.
(Ord. § 552, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 153.083 MOBILE HOME PARKS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Permits.
      (1)   Permits shall be required for all buildings and structures within
manufactured home parks. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct,
maintain or operate any manufactured home park or trailer camp within the
limits of the town unless he, she or any firm holds a valid clearance issued by
the Zoning Administrator in the name of such person, persons or firm for each
specific manufactured home, trailer or structure. The fee for this clearance
shall be determined by resolution of Town Council. Upon completion of the
administrative review with comment period process (§
153.067), issuance of zoning clearances and applicable permits shall be made by
the Zoning Administrator and shall be contingent upon:
         (a)   Compliance with all health laws and regulations of the State of
Arizona and the County of Yavapai; and
         (b)   Compliance with this local regulation.
      (2)   Applications for zoning clearance and building permits to construct
or enlarge manufactured home parks, RV parks or travel trailer camps shall be
made in writing, signed by the applicant who shall file with the application
proof of ownership of the premises or of a lease or written permission from the
owner thereof, together with a complete set of plans drawn to scale, showing
the location of the proposed manufactured home park, RV park or trailer camp,
and which shall include:
         (a)   The areas and dimensions of the tract of land;
         (b)   The maximum number, location and size of all RV, manufactured
home or trailer spaces;
         (c)   The location of any existing buildings and any proposed
structures;
         (d)   The location and width of access driveways, roadways, parking
areas, walkways and turn-arounds;
         (e)   The location of electrical, water, storm drainage, and sewer
lines and the sewage disposal systems;
         (f)   The location and elevation of all flood hazard areas; and
         (g)   A contour map showing the proposed grading of the park or camp.
      (3)   No person shall construct or enlarge a manufactured home park, RV
park or trailer camp without first obtaining favorable outcome of the
administrative review with comment period process or use permit.
      (4)   Before giving site plan approval the Zoning Administrator may
require a performance bond from the operator of the park to assure that the
park or camp is constructed and maintained in a satisfactory manner. The Zoning
Administrator may require any other improvements and facilities before
approving the manufactured home park, RV park or trailer camp, in the interest
of public safety, health and welfare. The Zoning Administrator may accept the
proposed plan, accept the proposed plan with recommended changes, or reject the
plan.
   (B)   Manufactured home park standards. The following regulations shall
apply in respect to manufactured home parks and all recreational vehicles,
manufactured homes and travel trailers in the park:
      (1)   Parks shall provide for individual spaces, access driveways,
parking and recreation open spaces.
      (2)   Parks shall provide at least 10% of the total area for recreation
or other open space purposes.
      (3)   Parks shall be developed in accordance with §
153.048, unless otherwise specified in this section.
      (4)   All utility lines, cable TV and electric transmission lines shall
be placed underground. Each space shall be provided with water, sanitary sewer,
electric lines, telephone lines and gas lines if needed in compliance with
applicable county and town ordinances. Fire hydrants shall be installed by the
developer as approved by the Zoning Administrator and the Fire District in
which the park is to be located.
      (5)   Refuse collection areas shall be central and screened from public
view.
      (6)   Minimum ratio of community use area shall be 10% of the total area.
Such land may include all land devoted to recreation and service facilities,
landscaping not included within manufactured home spaces, and accessory parking
areas. Such land shall not include recreational vehicle storage areas, private
streets, boundary landscaping areas and refuse areas.
      (7)   Recreational vehicle storage areas, if provided, shall be at the
minimum ratio of 50 square feet of land for each manufactured home space and
shall be surfaced with surface material. If no recreational vehicle storage is
provided, recreational vehicles shall not be stored at individual spaces.
   (C)   Parking requirements.
      (1)   A minimum of two off-street parking spaces will be provided for
each unit space. The parking spaces and the drive shall be dust-proofed and
surfaced with crushed rock or similar material. The parking spaces may be
arranged in tandem design.
      (2)   Guest automobile parking shall be provided at a minimum ratio of
three parking spaces for each five unit spaces.
      (3)   A minimum of two vehicular entrances shall be provided for each
park. One entrance may be kept closed to the public if provision is made for
emergency access.
      (4)   Street lighting shall be provided along the park streets for the
safety of pedestrians.
      (5)   A sidewalk shall be provided along one side of all streets and
drives within the park.
      (6)   A strip of land, 20 feet in width, shall be maintained as
landscaped area abutting all park property lines.
   (D)   Certificate of compliance. No certificate of compliance shall be
issued unless and until the following requirements have been met: unless and
until 30% of the spaces planned in any park, or ten such spaces, whichever is
greater, shall have been completely prepared, constructed and equipped for use
in all respects; and unless and until such portion of the park's community
facilities in the category of, but not limited to, driveways, laundry
facilities, bath, wash and toilet rooms as the Zoning Administrator may
require, shall have been completely prepared, constructed and equipped for use
in all respects.
   (E)   Travel trailer camp standards. The following regulations shall apply
in respect to all trailer camps:
      (1)   Trailer camps shall provide for individual trailer spaces, access
driveways and parking.
      (2)   Each trailer space shall be at least 1,500 square feet in area, and
at least 30 feet in width and have at a minimum a compacted gravel surface at
least ten feet in width and 20 feet in depth.
      (3)   A strip of land at least 20 feet in width shall be maintained as a
landscaped area abutting all trailer camp property lines except when the camp
boundary is adjacent to residential uses, when the landscaped area shall be at
least 50 feet in width.
   (F)   Nonconforming uses.
      (1)   Existing mobile home parks may be exempted from the requirements of
this chapter, except in the expansion of the mobile home park, whereby areas of
expansion shall be in conformance with the requirements of this chapter.
Expansion in addition to the expansion allowed under the nonconforming use
provisions shall result in the full compliance of the existing mobile home park
with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Existing mobile home parks shall be subject to §
153.002 for zoning clearance and permit issuance.
(Ord. § 555, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 153.084 NUISANCE AND HAZARDS.
   No use or structure shall be operated in such a manner as to be an explosion
or fire hazard; nor cause to be exhausted or emitted into the atmosphere any
smoke, soot, dust, radiation, odor, noise, vibration, heat, glare or toxic
fumes to such an extent as to constitute a nuisance; nor shall water carried
waste or pollutants be diverted into any open water course. The dispensing or
handling of fuels, paint thinner or similar explosion- or fire-producing
materials shall comply with Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. standards or
better.
(Ord. 08-44 §558, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 153.085 OUTSIDE DISPLAY, COMMERCIAL.
   (A)   A site plan acceptable to the Zoning Administrator shall be submitted
prior to the creation or expansion of outside display.
   (B)   Where an area of outside display is contiguous to a parcel or parcels
zoned or used for residential purposes:
      (1)   A solid screen six feet or more in height shall be installed, the
screening to be reduced to four feet in height within the front yard area of
the abutting parcels (or elsewhere for purposes of safe sight distance for
ingress/egress), and the screening to consist of one or more of the following:
decorative wall, decorative fence, earth landscaping, dense live plant
material, or depressed (lower than surrounding grade) display area in keeping
with natural terrain; or
      (2)   A setback of the display area of at least 20 feet shall be
maintained from the abutting parcels.
   (C)   Where an area of outside display abuts a street on the side or rear
which is contiguous to a parcel or parcels zoned or used for residential
purpose:
      (1)   There shall be a landscaped border not less than six feet in width
and a solid wall four feet in height shall be erected between the landscaped
area and display area (excepting areas for ingress and egress); or
      (2)   A setback of the display area of at least 20 feet shall be
maintained from the abutting street right-of-way.
   (D)   Where an area of outside display abuts a public right-of-way (or a
private street used as if it were a public right-of-way) a setback of the
display area shall be maintained meeting the following minimum conditions:
      (1)   Twenty feet from the nearest edge of pavement (or useable road
surface); and
      (2)   Six feet from the right-of-way line.
   (E)   No outside display shall interfere with required parking or
maneuvering room for employees and customers, nor with required loading areas,
nor with fire lanes to the building(s) nor with pedestrian ways or crosswalks,
nor with safe sight distance for ingress and egress.
   (F)   Paving of display area shall meet minimum town road standards.
   (G)   Landscaping of a six-foot strip around the periphery of the display
area shall be maintained, except where a zero setback is permitted, such as an
internal lot line adjacent to a commercial zone.
   (H)   Lighting of the display area shall be reduced (to the minimum
necessary for security purposes) between hours of operation.
   (I)   No unscreened outside storage of parts, nor outside display or parking
of vehicles or accessories not in operating and saleable condition shall take
place on the premises (whether or not other outside display is taking place).
(Ord. 08-44 § 561, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 153.086 OUTSIDE STORAGE.
   (A)   The outside storage of objects and materials shall be permitted as an
accessory use (i.e.: where a primary use has already been established) in all
residential zones that allow residential uses plus RS, PAD, PM, RCD and OS
zones, provided the following conditions are met:
      (1)   A property owner or tenant may park or store any number of
personally owned vehicles outside on residential property where a primary
residential use has been established, provided that all vehicles are for
personal use and are complete, operable and currently licensed and are arranged
in an orderly fashion. Vehicles unable to meet these conditions will be deemed
disabled or inoperable. Said disabled vehicles or vehicles determined to meet
the definition of a junk vehicle are limited to two per parcel. These disabled,
inoperable junk vehicles must be placed in the side or rear yard (but not
within the required front yard setback) and screened in such a manner so as
they are not visible from any public or private street right-of-way or adjacent
property. Personally owned vehicles may be offered for sale on an individual
person-to-person basis on a residentially zoned parcel where a primary
residential use has already been established, provided that no more than two
vehicles may be offered for sale at any one time. Unlimited areas of firewood
may be stored, provided that the firewood is for on-site personal use only and
is stacked no higher than six feet unless against a structure.
      (2)   Unlimited areas of construction materials may be temporarily
stored, provided that the construction materials are for use on-site pursuant
to a current, valid construction permit and are stacked no higher than six feet
and are kept at least ten feet from all property lines of adjacent occupied
residential properties.
      (3)   A property owner or tenant may park or store any number of
personally owned (and for personal use) travel trailers, motor homes,
recreational vehicles, boats, boat trailers, utility trailers, or other similar
items designed for personal noncommercial uses outside on residential property
where a primary residential use has been established. No more than one travel
trailer, motor home or recreational vehicle, boat, trailer, etc. which is owned
by a party other than the present owner or tenant of the property shall be
stored. No travel trailers, motor homes or recreational vehicles on
residentially zoned parcels or lots shall be used or made suitable for use for
long-term occupancy without a temporary dwelling permit or use permit. Evidence
of an intention for long-term occupancy shall include at least three of the
following:
         (a)   Being hooked up to power.
         (b)   Being hooked up to water.
         (c)   Being hooked up to sewer or septic facilities.
         (d)   Being raised or leveled by means of jacks or blocks.
         (e)   Having a mailbox.
         (f)   Having any attached or adjacent structure or improvement that
enhances the on-site livability and/or decreases the mobility of the vehicle.
         (g)   Removal of wheels or axles or hitches on a vehicle normally
fitted with wheels and axles and/or hitches.
      (4)   Temporary use of a travel trailer, motor home or recreational
vehicle as an occasional overflow guest room for non-paying or non-reimbursing
relatives or guests is authorized as outlined provided such interim use does
not exceed 90 days of continuous duration or a total of 90 days in a year or
one 12-month period. Temporary use of recreational vehicles shall be only
authorized upon satisfaction of the following performance criteria:
         (a)   Subject property is occupied by a permitted primary residential
structure.
         (b)   The Yavapai County Environmental Unit shall be furnished with
information to determine that the septic or sanitary facilities are adequate to
accommodate additional effluent from the temporary recreational vehicle (RV)
unit installation.
         (c)   Verification by the Zoning Administrator that the foregoing
criteria have been addressed prior to authorizing occupancy of the unit.
      (5)   All boats, trailers, motor homes, travel trailers, recreational
vehicles shall be kept in reasonable repair and operable and neatly arranged.
      (6)   No mobile home shall be placed or kept on a lot without a current
valid zoning clearance or a current valid construction permit or temporary
dwelling permit and without erection of permanent foundations and hook ups to
facilities, permanent piers, blocks or foundations.
      (7)   Appliances (washers, dryers, refrigerators, freezers, ranges,
stoves, furnaces, water heaters, air conditioners, etc.) may be stored outside,
provided said appliances are in an operable condition and are hooked up for
personal on-site use and are placed behind a screen wall or landscaping such
that the appliances are not within the public view.
      (8)   Furniture may be stored outside, provided such furniture is in
reasonable repair and weather resistant condition and is intended for personal
on-site use and are placed behind a screen wall or landscaping such that the
appliances are not within the public view.
      (9)   A property owner or tenant may park or store construction, mining,
or farming equipment or machinery outside, provided such equipment or machinery
is in operable condition and is intended for personal on-site use.
      (10)   No vehicular parts, components or accessories not independently
operable, nor any large non-structural objects, which are in disuse, or for use
other than on site shall be stored outside.
      (11)   Any outside storage unable to meet the above exceptions and
conditions must meet one of the following restrictions:
         (a)    Methods of screening for outside storage may include acceptable
wooden fencing, masonry walls, rock walls, landscaped berms or live vegetative
screening. All outside storage shall be totally screened from view of any
contiguous property or right-of-way or easement and located in the side or rear
yard. All screening for outside storage shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Zoning Administrator. Adjoining property owners will be
notified by mail of the proposed location and method of screening when an
alternative method of screening is presented to staff for their consideration.
         (b)   Outside storage, except outside storage of steel cargo
containers governed by §
153.086(A)(13), shall not exceed the heights and square footages provided for
the setbacks from the nearest property line as follows:
 
Distance to nearest property Maximum allowed square Maximum allowed height in
line                         footage                feet
101 to 200 feet              200                    6
201 to 300 feet              300                    6
301 to 400 feet              400                    8
401 to 500 feet              500                    8
501 or more feet             Unlimited              8
 
      (12)   Manufactured homes, mobile homes, travel trailers, recreational
vehicles, truck trailers, commercial trailers, boxcars, or any other vehicle
shall not be attached to or placed on any lot and are not allowed to be stored
or utilized for storage purposes in any district, with the exception of the
specific allowances referenced in division (A)(1) through (12) and §
153.035. These prohibited vehicles/containers may be considered for storage
when there are unique circumstances subject to obtaining an approved use
permit.
      (13)   The outside storage of steel storage containers is allowed as an
accessory use, solely for the storage of personal items owned by the property
owner, occupant or business (in appropriate commercially designated areas in
the RMM and the use districts listed in §
153.086(A)), provided as follows:
         (a)   An approval letter from the Zoning Administrator is obtained
prior to placement of the unit.
         (b)   Containers shall meet the minimum yard requirements of the
primary structure in the applicable density district as well as building
separation and lot coverage requirements.
         (c)   Any electrical service to comply with applicable adopted
building codes and other town codes.
   (B)   The outside storage of objects and materials shall be a permitted
accessory use in C1 and C2 (general commercial) zones provided that:
      (1)   All conditions of outside storage shall be met except that “on-site
personal use” shall be construed to include those uses incidental to the
permitted commercial (as well as personal) uses pertaining to the property.
      (2)   All conditions of outside storage shall apply except that one
travel trailer, motor home or recreational vehicle may be hooked up to power,
water, sewer or septic facilities or otherwise made suitable for long term
occupancy for the purposes of a caretaker/watchman’s quarters only per parcel
in a C1 or C2 zone without a use permit approval or PAD for a travel trailer/
recreational vehicle park for watchman/caretaker purposes.
      (3)   No merchandise shall be displayed or stored outside in a C1or C2
zone except as provided for vehicles in the C1 Use District or by use permit (§
153.091). Merchandise displayed temporarily during business hours only under
the roof of an attached porch or carport shall be considered inside display.
Vending machines permanently installed against but outside of a structure shall
not be considered outside display.
   (C)   The outside storage of objects and materials shall be a permitted
accessory use in C3 (heavy commercial) zones as per divisions (B)(1) and (2).
above except that square footage limits and setbacks shall be waived. Height
limitations and screening requirements shall not be waived.
   (D)   The outside storage of objects and materials shall be a permitted
accessory use in M1 and M2 (industrial) zones, provided that screening is
provided from non-industrially zoned properties within 200 feet.
   (E)   Outside storage not complying with this division is hereby deemed a
public nuisance and shall not enjoy any rights to continuation, restoration,
exchange of uses, or expansion as if a lawful non-conforming use, and shall be
abated.
(Ord. 08-44 § 564, passed 10-21-2008; Am. Ord. 20-150, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 153.087 PROTECTIVE SCREENING.
   Where a commercial, office or nonresidential use abuts property in any
residential zone, a masonry wall six feet in height, above the average
elevation of the ground level within a six-foot radius of the point of
measurement on the fence or wall shall be erected and maintained between such
uses and the residential zone. Walls in the front yard setback shall not exceed
heights of four feet. Alternatives that are equivalent to a six-foot masonry
wall, including double-sided solid wood fencing, stuccoed wood frame walls,
native stone or rock veneered walls or a dense live vegetative buffer, may be
approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission or the Community Development
Director or Zoning Administrator or his/her designee.
(Ord. 08-44 § 567, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 153.088 REAL ESTATE OFFICES, TEMPORARY.
   (A)   Use district provisions. Temporary real estate offices are permitted
within the R1L (Single Family Limited) Use District in conjunction with an
approved subdivision plat and subject to performance standards outlined under
division (C) below.
   (B)   Use restrictions. No activities other than the representation for sale
of lots and homes within the approved subdivision in which the sales office is
located.
   (C)   Design/performance standards.
      (1)   Sales facility shall be utilized for on-site sales of lots and
homes within the approved subdivision only.
      (2)   Temporary sales facility shall only be administratively authorized
for a period of three years from approval of phase one of the project and/or
issuance of the public report from the Arizona Department of Real Estate
(ADRE). Extensions beyond the initial period shall require a use permit.
      (3)   Staff approval of site plan drawn to scale prior to issuance of
building permits and initiation of the use. Plan shall indicate number of on/
off-street parking spaces, handicap parking, disabled accessibility, restroom
facilities, lot surfacing, signage height/location and compliance with other
applicable regulations.
      (4)   Temporary signage to comply with current Planning and Zoning
Ordinance and Subdivision Regulations.
      (5)   At the end of the three-year authorization period or termination of
the use, whichever comes first, all temporary signage is to be removed.
(Ord. 08-44 § 570, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 153.089 SELF-SERVICE STORAGE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Zoning requirements. Self-service storage facilities are allowed in
C2, C3, PM, M1 and M2 Zoning Districts.
   (B)   Use restrictions. No activities other than rental of storage units and
pick-up and deposit of dead storage shall be allowed within the self-storage
complex.
      (1)   Other permitted uses may be allowed on the property subject to all
applicable zoning district regulations. General commercial uses set out under
the C2 Zoning District are permitted on residual commercially zoned acreage
that is not involved in the mini-storage complex. Security guard's or manager's
quarters are permitted subject to compliance with residential building code
requirements.
      (2)   Examples of activities prohibited at self-storage facilities
include but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   Commercial wholesale or retail sales, or miscellaneous auctions
and garage sales prohibited except for the purpose of foreclosure liquidation
by a proprietor as outlined under A.R.S. §§ 33-1701 through 33-1706;
         (b)   The servicing, repair or fabrication of motor vehicles, boats,
trailers, lawn mowers, appliances or other similar equipment;
         (c)   The operation of power tools, spray-painting equipment, table
saws, lathes, compressors, welding equipment, kilns or other similar equipment;
         (d)   The establishment of a transfer and storage business;
         (e)   Any use that is noxious or offensive because of odors, dust,
noise, fumes or vibrations;
         (f)   Storing of radioactive materials, explosives and flammable or
hazardous chemicals;
         (g)   Use as a residence or for housing animals is prohibited; and
         (h)   Utilizing the self-storage facility for other than dead storage
(see definitions in §
153.005).
      (3)   All storage, rental or purchase contracts shall include the above
listed restrictions.
   (C)   Design/performance standards.
      (1)   Lot requirements.
         (a)   Lot size to be a minimum of one-half acre; and
         (b)   Lot coverage to be a maximum of 50%.
      (2)   Lane width. Driving/loading lanes shall be a minimum of 26 feet in
width (paved driving surface) when cubicles open onto one side of the lane only
and a minimum of 36 feet when cubicles open onto both sides of the lane.
Driveway corners shall have a minimum 30-foot radius. Dead-end driveways shall
in no instance exceed in length the requirements of the Fire Code and in
instances that dead-end driveways exceed 150 feet in length, same shall be
reviewed and approved in writing by the local Fire Marshal and in the absence
of a Fire District, the Chief Building Official to verify compliance with the
International Fire Code.
      (3)   Setbacks.
         (a)   All facets of the development structures shall be set back a
minimum of 20 feet from the required fence for fire access purposes.
         (b)   A ten-foot separation must be maintained between all buildings.
      (4)   Fire suppression. Facility shall conform to the International Fire
Code requirements relating to type of construction, accessibility, building
separations, water storage and fire flows, and the like. A zoning approval
letter drafted by the Zoning Administrator shall be included with a written
statement from the affected local Fire District Fire Marshal.
      (5)   Access. An emergency ingress/egress shall be provided in addition
to at least one main ingress/egress for customer use.
      (6)   Building height restrictions.
         (a)   Maximum height for one story not to exceed 14 feet at the eaves;
and
         (b)   Maximum height for two stories not to exceed 30 feet.
      (7)   Signage. Signage restrictions shall be as specified in §§
153.125 through
153.130 .
      (8)   Fencing. Perimeter fencing shall conform to the general provisions
for protective screening (§
153.087).
      (9)   Parking. One parking space per employee plus one space per 50
storage units will be required.
(Ord. 08-44 § 573, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 153.090 SWIMMING POOL SAFETY.
   (A)   General. Every swimming pool shall be completely enclosed by a
permanent fence, wall or barrier intended to restrict access to the swimming
pool from public property, adjacent private property, and directly from all
dwelling units or guestrooms located on the same premises as the swimming pool.
For purposes of this section, the term SWIMMING POOL shall mean any structure
intended for swimming, diving or recreational bathing which contains water 18
inches or more in depth at any point, including temporary, portable or
permanent swimming pools, hot tubs or spas, whether located indoors, outdoors,
in ground, on grade or above grade.
      (1)   Exceptions include:
         (a)   In lieu of the barrier requirements listed, a spa, hot tub or
other contained body of water which is more than 18 inches in depth and less
than eight feet at its widest point may be equipped with a safety cover which
complies with ASTM F-1346.
         (b)   Aboveground swimming pools which have nonclimbable sides not
less than 48 inches high above adjacent ground level may be located on a single
family residential property without requiring a fence or barrier between the
pool and the dwelling while still requiring the pool to be fenced/enclosed from
other properties, provided any steps or ladders are either removable without
the use of tools or are designed to be secured in an inaccessible position with
a lock or latch located not less than 54 inches above adjacent ground level.
Prior approval of the Chief Building Official shall be required for this
exception to be applicable.
      (2)   The swimming pool enclosure and barrier detail requirements of this
section shall apply to all new swimming pools installed on or after the
adoption hereof, and to all alterations, repairs or replacements made to
existing swimming pool enclosures.
      (3)   It is the responsibility of the property owner and any other
responsible person in charge of a swimming pool to ensure that the required
swimming pool enclosure, including all gates, doors, locks, latches and other
portions of the barrier, are maintained in safe and in good working order at
all times. No person shall alter or remove any portion of a swimming pool
enclosure except to repair, reconstruct or replace the enclosure in compliance
with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Barrier details.  
      (1)   Generally.  
         (a)   Swimming pool barriers shall be of a permanent fence, a wall, a
building wall, or a combination thereof which completely surrounds the swimming
pool. The pool side of the barrier shall not be less than 20 inches from the
water's edge. The top of the barrier, including all gates and doors therein,
shall not be less than five feet above the floor or underlying ground, measured
on the exterior side of the enclosure.
         (b)   Exception: Due to changes in pool technology, the 20-inch
requirement may be waived by the Chief Building Official in those circumstances
where this waiver will not affect the intent of this section (pool safety).
There shall be no openings, holes or gaps in a swimming pool barrier large
enough for a sphere four inches in diameter to pass through. A barrier fence or
wall shall not be climbable; that is, have no handholds or footholds accessible
from the exterior side of the enclosure. Wire mesh or chain link fences shall
have a maximum mesh size of one and three-fourths inches measured horizontally.
      (2)   Gates. All gates in a swimming pool enclosure shall be equipped to
accommodate a locking device. All pedestrian access gates shall be self-closing
and self-locking and open outward, away from the pool. Gates other than
pedestrian access gates need not be self-closing or self-locking when they are
kept secure by a padlock or similar locking device. Gate locks shall be located
not less than 54 inches above the underlying ground. Exception: The Chief
Building Official may approve the use of a self-latching device if it is
demonstrated that comparable safety may be achieved with this substitution and
approval is secured in advance.
      (3)   Doors. All doors leaving from a dwelling unit or guestroom directly
into a swimming pool enclosure shall be self-closing and self-locking. Sliding
doors shall not form part of a required barrier unless the self-closing and
self-locking mechanism is specifically approved by the Chief Building Official
for this purpose prior to construction.
      (4)   Windows. Emergency escape or rescue windows from sleeping rooms
which face within a swimming pool enclosure shall be equipped with a latching
device located 54 inches above the floor. All other operable dwelling unit or
guestroom windows facing within a swimming pool enclosure shall be equipped
with screwed in-place wire mesh screen, a keyed lock that prevents opening the
window more than four inches, or a latching device located not less than 54
inches above the floor.
   (C)   Limitation of application. This section does not apply to:
      (1)   A system of sumps, irrigation canals, irrigation, flood control or
drainage work constructed or operated for the purpose of storing, delivering,
distributing or conveying water;
      (2)   Stock ponds, storage tanks, livestock operations, livestock
watering troughs, or other structures used in normal agricultural purposes;
      (3)   Pools which are regulated by the Arizona Department of
Environmental Quality;
      (4)   Ornamental water fixtures not intended for swimming, recreational
bathing or other water-related activities; or
      (5)   A contained body of water or barrier constructed prior to the
effective date of this section.
   (D)   Site requirements. The site of the contained body of water subject to
this section shall be located in accordance with yards and courts, as set forth
in §
153.093. The location of accessory equipment shall be in accordance with the
requirements of the latest adopted edition of the International Mechanical
Code.
   (E)   Approval required before use. These enclosure requirements shall be in
place and approved prior to admitting water into the swimming pool, hot tub,
spa or other regulated water container.
   (F)   Stricter provisions. This section, adopted after the effective date of
A.R.S. § 36-1681, is certified as being equal to or more stringent than the
provisions thereof.
   (G)   Fencing requirement not exempted. Exemption from other requirements of
the Zoning Regulations or adopted building codes shall not eliminate
requirements for pool fencing as required by this section.
   (H)   Interpretation. Enclosure requirements and performance criteria shall
be interpreted and ruled by the Chief Building Official. He or she may approve
alternate designs if investigation of the alternative finds that the proposed
design is satisfactory and provides the same or a higher level of safety. The
Chief Building Official's decisions may be appealed to the Building Safety
Advisory and Appeals Board.
(Ord. § 579, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 153.091 USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Purpose and definition. The use permit process is established to
ensure the orderly use of land for uses that may require special limitations
and conditions. A use permit is a conditional use which is not permitted
outright in a zoning district and may be granted at the discretion of the Town
Council, when it is found that it:
      (1)   Is compatible with permitted uses in the underlying zoning
district;
      (2)   Is in compliance with the town's General Plan and applicable town
regulations; and
      (3)   Meets or exceeds the conditions and criteria described in this
section.
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   All uses allowed in the use district where a use permit is
specified shall be processed in accordance with the regulations of this
section.
      (2)   A use permit may also be requested for a use that is first
permitted in a less restrictive zoning district, except for those specifically
excluded as noted in division (B)(5) below. Zoning districts as described in §§
153.035(B) through
153.047 allow uses of varying intensities that range from:
         (a)   Most restrictive, such as low density residential single family
to medium density residential single-family;
         (b)   To less restrictive uses, such as higher density residential
multi-family and commercial-business uses;
         (c)   And to the least restrictive uses, such as manufacturing-
industrial uses.
 
Most                                                  Less                                                  Least
Restrictive                                           Restrictive                                           Restrictive
Use                                                   Use                                                   Use
Districts:                                            Districts:                                            Districts: PM,
R1L, RMM,                                             R2, RS, C1,                                           M1, M2
R1, RCU                                               C2, C3
            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                    [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
            dabe9726ae38701612cdb69c32e218ccf7d4b064/             dabe9726ae38701612cdb69c32e218ccf7d4b064/
            IMAGES/0-0-0-959.jpg]                                 IMAGES/0-0-0-959.jpg]
Low &                                                 Residential
Medium                                                Multi-                                                Manufacturing,
Density                                               Family,                                               Industrial
Residential                                           Business,                                             Uses
Single-                                               Commercial
family                                                Uses
 
      (3)   Use permits are granted at the sole discretion of the Town Council
and refusal is not the denial of a right.
      (4)   The granting of a use permit by the Town Council does not
constitute a permanent use nor does it grant a vested right beyond the term of
the permit.
      (5)   Uses which are excluded from the granting of a use permit (i.e.,
can not be granted) are those specifically prohibited in the Town Code
including but not limited to landfill disposals, solid waste landfills and any
similar storage or processing of solid waste; and those specified within each
use district including but not limited to the exclusion of the following:
TABLE OF USES EXCLUDED FROM USE PERMIT APPLICATIONS BY DISTRICT
Uses Excluded From Use Permit Application R1L, R1, RMM C-1 C-2 C-3 PM M-1 M-2
By District                               RCU, R2
TABLE OF USES EXCLUDED FROM USE PERMIT APPLICATIONS BY DISTRICT
Uses Excluded From Use Permit Application   R1L, R1, RMM C-1 C-2 C-3 PM M-1 M-2
By District                                 RCU, R2
Public utility business offices, repair or  X
storage facilities
Commercial driving ranges or miniature      X
putting courses
The keeping of swine                        X
Facilities for the preparation of food in
quarters attached to the principal dwelling X
for servants and/or non-paying guests
Intoxicating beverage sale on site          X            X
Retail sales off-site, vending from
openings in buildings (no drive through     X            X
windows)
Public recitals, concerts or dances         X            X
Vending for on- or off-site consumption of
foods, confections, non-intoxicating drinks
and other refreshments through openings in  X            X   X
buildings within 300 feet of a public or
parochial grade or high school
On-site incineration in veterinary clinics  X            X   X
and hospitals and in pet shops
Medical marijuana facilities                X            X   X
Milling and planning operations in lumber   X            X   X   X
yards
Livestock sales in public auctions          X            X   X   X
Vehicle and portable machinery repair       X            X   X   X
Dwelling units and mobile home courts                            X   X  X   X
Rooming and boarding houses and similar     X:R1L,               X   X  X   X
                                            RMM
Motels, hotels and similar                  X                        X  X   X
General retail sales and service or other   X                        X
uses that cater to the general public
Open land facilities                        X            X   Lmt Lmt X
Emission of such nuisances as fumes, odor,  X            X   X   X   X
noise, glare and vibration
Wrecking yards                              X            X   X   X   X  X
Slaughtering of other than rabbits and      X            X   X   X   X  X
poultry
Landfill disposals, solid waste landfills,
and any similar storage or processing -     PROHIBITED IN ALL DISTRICTS
facilities of solid waste
* (X)   denotes excluded use in individual use district; generally any use that
is prohibited in a less restrictive use district is also prohibited in a more
restrictive use district; except as noted in the table above.
** (Lmt)   indicates some limitations on specific usage; see use district.
 
   (C)   Conditions and criteria for use permits.
      (1)   Use permits may contain specific limitations on the scope, nature
and duration of the use as deemed proper to secure the objectives of the town's
General Plan and to be in accordance with the following conditions and
criteria.
         (a)   Use permits may be granted for duration of no more than five
years. A request for renewal/extension (to extend the duration of the permitted
use as originally approved) must be processed in the same manner as the
original use permit request, except that the Town Council may review and extend
a use permit upon its expiration without posting or publication, provided no
material condition of the use permit is altered.
      (2)   The applicant must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Town
Council that any structure or use requested will not be detrimental to persons
or property in the vicinity and that the use is in the best interests of the
public health, safety and welfare; criteria to be considered include the
following:
         (a)   Any significant increase in vehicular or pedestrian traffic;
         (b)   Nuisances arising from the emission of odor, dust, gas, noise,
vibration, smoke, heat, or glare at a level exceeding that of ambient
conditions;
         (c)   Contributions to the deterioration of the neighborhood or to the
downgrading of property values;
         (d)   Incompatibility with existing adjacent structures and uses;
         (e)   Nuisances from inadequate control of disruptive behavior both
inside and outside the premises.
      (3)   The applicant must demonstrate the ability to comply with any
specific conditions imposed by the Town Council.
   (D)   Use permit procedures.
      (1)   Use permits shall be applied for in the same manner as zoning
district changes as specified in §
153.022, reviewed at public hearings of both the Planning and Zoning Advisory
Commission and the Town Council.
      (2)   Where an application involves a definite scheme, the applicant must
submit a layout and landscape plan, building elevations and other pertinent
data as may be requested.
      (3)   Permittees must obtain building permits within one year from the
permit date and diligently pursue completion. Failure of such shall void the
use permit unless a longer time has been granted or an extension of time has
been applied for with the Zoning Administrator prior to the expiration of the
one-year period.
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator may administratively grant up to a one-
year extension of time for obtaining building permits and completion of
improvements as conditioned. Any further requests for such extensions of time
must be applied for and approved by both the Planning and Zoning Commission and
Town Council prior to the expiration of the administrative extension of time.
      (4)   Use permits for temporary special events such as festivals,
seasonal agricultural events, farmers markets, parades, carnivals and other
community activities may be administratively granted subject to meeting all
conditions and criteria of this section, and subject to compliance with
regulatory codes for safety and health, and are of a temporary, limited
duration appropriate to the activity.
      (5)   Violation of the terms of the use permit or this section voids the
use permit.
      (6)   If the use or uses for which a use permit has been granted are
discontinued for a continuous period of 12 months, the use permit shall be
voided.
      (7)   Decisions by the Zoning Administrator which result in the voiding
of a use permit may be appealed to the Town Council subject to an application
for appeal being on file with the Zoning Administrator within 30 days of
notification of the use permit being voided.
      (8)   Within 30 days permittees shall notify the Zoning Administrator of
any change of address of the permittee, any change of use of the permitted
property, and/or any change of ownership or operator of the permitted use.
         (a)   The new owner/operator of the use shall apply for a transfer of
the use permit within 30 days of the effective date of the change. Such
transfer of the use permit shall be reviewed for compliance with all conditions
imposed in the original use permit application approval.
         (b)   Any modifications, alterations or increased intensities that
conflict with the use permit and/or conditions of approval shall result in the
requirement of a new use permit application in compliance with the procedures
listed in this section.
(Ord. § 582, passed 9-4-2008; Am. Ord. 10-70, passed 7-6-2010; Am. Ord. 11-83,
passed 4-19-2011)
§ 153.092 VEHICLE AND PORTABLE MACHINERY REPAIR.
   The following activities are not allowed in the C3 Commercial Zoning
District:
   (A)   Any fabrication by means of welding, cutting, heating, bending,
molding, forging, grinding, milling or machining (such operations are
permissible as an adjunct to repair only, not for manufacturing a product);
   (B)   Frame work or major body or fender work;
   (C)   Any work on vehicles outside permitted structures or enclosures,
unless on the service apron of a gasoline service station;
   (D)   Any unscreened outside storage of parts, materials or disabled
vehicles;
   (E)   Any draining or dumping of oil, fuel, grease, cleaning fluids or
hazardous materials on the pavement, gravel, ground, drainage system or in any
other unauthorized place or method;
   (F)   Any hours of operation between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. within 200
feet of any parcel zoned or used for residential purposes; or
   (G)   Any use or structure failing to comply with applicable local and state
fire safety standards.
(Ord. § 585, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 153.093 YARDS AND COURTS.
   (A)   A yard or court, as defined in §
153.005, shall be unobstructed from the ground up by structures (other than
fences, freestanding walls, signs and certain subsequently permitted deviations
and projections). Where reference is to a "required setback" for a structure
same shall designate the minimum yard therefor. No lot shall be reduced in such
a manner to reduce any yard or open space below the minimum required therefor.
No yard or open space required for a structure on one lot shall serve the same
purpose for a structure on another lot. Through lots fronting on two streets
shall be considered (for required setback purposes) as having two front yards.
No device, such as doors and windows, may be so installed as to protrude beyond
a lot boundary in the operation thereof.
   (B)   Yard deviations, where not in conflict with future width line:
      (1)   Front yard deviations.
         (a)   Where all or some of the existing buildings in the same block
with a proposed building, and lying within 100 feet therefrom, vary from the
minimum front yard requirements, then the average front yard depth for such
existing buildings shall determine the required minimum yard depth for the
proposed building (unless waived in writing by owners of the other buildings).
In no case may such yard depth be less than the minimum required for the
district, nor need the yard depth be required to exceed by 50% of the required
minimum.
         (b)   On lots rising in elevation from front to center and exceeding
26% grade thereon, the front yard may be reduced not to exceed 50% of the
required minimum.
      (2)   Side yard deviations.
         (a)   On any interior residential zoned lot lacking rear access (other
than from the front street) and where a garage or carport is not attached to
the principal building, then one side yard must measure no less than nine feet
to provide access to rear parking.
         (b)   On a corner lot backing to a key lot no structure exceeding a
four-foot height may be located adjacent to the side street within a triangular
area formed by a line connecting the street intersection with the required
front setback line of the key lot.
         (c)   When a lot sides on an alley, the required side yard adjacent
thereto may be reduced not to exceed 50%, provided the reduced setback, plus
half the alley width, is not less than the yard width required for the
district.
         (d)   On legal sub-standard width lots, an interior side yard may be
reduced by half the lot width shortage, provided the reduction does not exceed
25% of the required yard width.
      (3)   Rear yard deviations.
         (a)   On lots of less than 280 feet depth, the required rear yard
shall be increased by the width of a potential half alley.
         (b)   On lots exceeding 280 feet depth, the required rear yard shall
be increased by the width of a potential half street.
   (C)   Encroachment into yards, where not in conflict with future width
lines: no structure (other than fences, freestanding walls or signs) shall be
located so as to encroach upon or reduce any open space, yard, setback
requirement, lot area or parking area as is designated under these provisions
or under the provisions of the district in which located, except that:
      (1)   All yards encroachments.
         (a)   Cornices, eaves, coolers, decks and open balconies, fire
escapes, stairways or fire towers may project no more than five feet into any
required yard or court, but no closer than two feet from any lot boundary.
         (b)   Sills, leaders, belt course (and similar ornamental features)
and chimneys may project two feet into any required yard or court.
      (2)   Front yard encroachments.
         (a)   A bay window, oriel, entrance or vestibule not exceeding a ten-
foot width may project three feet into any required front yard.
         (b)   An attached open porch, deck or open balcony, or a carport may
project no more than six feet into any front yard.
      (3)   Rear yard encroachments.
         (a)   A bay window, oriel, entrance or vestibule not exceeding a ten-
foot width may project three feet into any required rear yard.
         (b)   An attached open porch, deck or open balcony, or a carport may
project no more than ten feet into any required rear yard, but no closer than
ten feet from any common lot boundary.
         (c)   A detached accessory structure may be placed in a required rear
yard, provided same does not:
            1.   Encroach upon the end quarter of a through lot;
            2.   Be nearer the side lot line of the front half of any adjacent
lot than the required side yard of such lot; or
            3.   Be nearer any property line than is allowed for a principal
building for any portion of an accessory building to be used for dwelling or
sleeping purposes. None of the foregoing provisions for detached accessory
buildings shall limit such building from location farther than 75 feet from any
lot boundary.
   (D)   Setbacks from streets and alleys (yard depth) are measured from the
right-of-way or easement (or what would be such where only a partial right-of-
way exists).
   (E)   Swimming pool setbacks from any lot boundary shall be no less than
five feet on residential zoned lots and no less than 25 feet for any commercial
(semi-public or public) pool.
   (F)   Courts from which rooms depend for natural ventilation of light must
be open to the sky and maintain a minimum dimension of five feet, plus one
additional foot width for each story above the first.
   (G)   Additional setback requirements in commercial zones:
      (1)   Any residential district uses in a commercial zone shall maintain
the same yards required by the density district, except that where dwelling
units, or guest units, occupy an upper floor (the ground floor of which is used
for business), the upper floor may maintain the same yards as are permitted for
the ground floor.
      (2)   A front yard of not less than 20 feet shall be required where the
proposed commercial building is on a lot contiguous to a residential zoned lot
fronting on the same street (unless waived in writing by the owner of the
residential zoned lot).
      (3)   Where the side lot line of a commercial lot is common to the side
lot line of a residential zoned lot, the side yard shall be no less than seven
feet.
      (4)   Where the rear lot line of a commercial lot is contiguous to a
residential zoned lot, the rear yard shall be no less than 15 feet.
(Ord. § 588, passed 9-4-2008)
FOCUSED DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
§ 153.110 PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   The following provisions of this section and §
153.111 shall apply as noted, except as may be modified, supplemented or
supplanted under the provisions of any particular zoning district.
   (A)   Off-street parking requirements.  The purpose of this section is to
minimize congestion of the public streets and to promote the safety and welfare
of the public. Off-street parking is required as accessory to principal uses
permitted in the district, and approval shall not be granted nor land uses
authorized other than in conformity with such parking requirements.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section and §
153.111, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CIRCULATION AREA. Driveways and other maneuvering areas (other than
parking aisles) used for access to parking or loading areas or other facilities
on the lot.
      DRIVEWAY. The portion of the vehicle parking area that constitutes a
travel lane for ingress-egress that is not part of the vehicle parking area.
      GROSS FLOOR AREA. The total area of a building measured by taking the
outside dimensions of the building at each floor level intended for any use.
      LOADING AND UNLOADING AREA. That portion of the vehicle parking area
utilized for accessing vehicles.
      PARKING AREA. The portion of a lot that is used by vehicles for access,
circulation, parking, and loading and unloading. This area comprises the total
of circulation areas, loading and unloading areas, and PARKING AREAS (spaces
and aisles).
      PARKING AREA AISLES. The portion of the vehicle parking area consisting
of lanes providing access to parking spaces.
      PARKING SPACE. A portion of the vehicle parking area established or
allocated for the parking of one vehicle.
      USABLE AREA. In calculating the total number of required parking spaces,
USABLE AREA shall mean the area devoted to the specified use (does not include
such spaces as kitchens, restrooms, hallways and the like); the term SEAT shall
also include each 30 inches of bench seating when individual seats are not
provided.
      USE. The purpose for which a building, lot or structure is arranged,
designed, occupied or maintained.
   (C)   Requirements for off-street parking.
      (1)   Maintenance of existing parking. All off-street parking required by
this section shall be established and improved before operation of the use or
uses requiring such parking area may begin, and shall be maintained for the
duration of such use.
      (2)   Existing off-street parking shall not be reduced or modified for
any existing business except in instances where parking space allocations meet
all requirements of these Zoning Regulations. Modifications to the parking
allocation may be considered by the Planning and Zoning Commission in instances
where the Institute of Traffic Engineer Standards further clarify the parking
ratio or allocation for a business not specified herein.
      (3)   The use of off-street parking space for the storage of merchandise,
vehicles for sale or rent, or for repair of vehicles, shall be expressly
prohibited.
      (4)   When the use of any existing building, structure, or premises is
changed to a new use, or the intensity of the use is increased through the
incorporation of additional dwelling units, gross floor area, seating capacity,
or other units of measurement specified for required parking or loading
facilities, and which change of use or intensity creates a need for an increase
in the total number of required parking spaces of 10% or 20 spaces, either with
a single change or cumulative changes, subsequent to the effective date of this
chapter, then parking and loading facilities as required shall be provided for
the entire building, structure or premises. When such an increase in required
parking is less than 10% cumulatively, the change of use or intensity is exempt
from the requirements of this section.
      (5)   Required improvements shall be completed in accordance with these
zoning regulations prior to commencement of the use or occupancy of the site.
   (D)   Location of required parking spaces.
      (1)   Residential uses. Required off-street parking for single family
dwellings shall be provided on the same site as the building or use being
served. Off-street parking for multiple-family dwellings or residences in PAD
zoning districts may be provided in a parking area on or off the site not
farther than 200 feet from an entrance to each dwelling unit it is intended to
serve.
      (2)   Nonresidential uses.
         (a)   Required off-street parking shall be located on or off the site
within 300 feet of the building or use it is intended to serve, the distance
being measured from the nearest point of the building or use; provided,
however, that parking facilities for sports assembly, public assembly for
outdoor entertainment, sports and recreational activities, resorts and group
camps, or similar uses, shall be located not farther than 1,300 feet from the
nearest point of such building or use.
         (b)   The Planning and Zoning Commission may authorize off-premises
parking including on-street parking within 300 feet of the associated business,
as part of a development plan or proposal, in instances where use of the
parking area is authorized on a long-term basis by the property owner and/or
the public jurisdiction that administers public right-of-way.
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator may deny a request to use off-premises
or on-street parking in instances where authorization may be on a temporary
basis and/or if the proposed off-premises parking plan is not in the interest
of the public health, safety and welfare. A decision to deny a development plan
or proposal may be appealed to the Board of Adjustment.
   (E)   Methods of providing required off-street parking. Off-street parking
may be achieved by any one or a combination of the following:
      (1)   Limited credit for space. One parking area may contain required
spaces for several different uses, but except as otherwise provided in this
section, the required space assigned to one use may not be credited to any
other use.
      (2)   Combination of uses. Where there is a combination of uses on a lot,
the number of automobile parking spaces shall be the sum of the requirements of
the various uses. If, in the opinion of the Zoning Administrator, the uses
would not be operated simultaneously, the number of automobile parking spaces
shall be determined by the use with the highest parking demand.
      (3)   Shared parking. By securing the consent to use off-street parking
facilities under another's ownership, which is not otherwise used or required
during the principal operating hours of usage, that consent shall be in written
form and a copy filed with the Town Zoning Administrator. The number of parking
spaces may be reduced up to a maximum of 20% of the total spaces required. In
the event the off-site spaces are or become no longer available, the owner
shall provide additional parking to meet this requirement.
      (4)   Common areas. Provisions shall be made for maintenance of common
service areas by a corporation, partnership, trust or other legal entity having
the right to access or place a lien upon the individual lot owners for all
necessary costs and/or expenses. A letter of maintenance responsibility will be
required as part of the zoning clearance procedure.
   (F)   Dimensions and circulation.
      (1)   General dimensions. Each parking space shall contain a rectangular
area at least 20 feet long and nine feet wide. Lines demarcating parking spaces
may be drawn at various angles in relation to curbs or aisles, so long as the
parking spaces so created contain within them the rectangular area required by
this section.
      (2)   Compact spaces. In parking areas containing ten or more parking
spaces, up to 20% of the parking spaces may contain a rectangular area of only
seven and one-half feet in width by 15 feet in length. If such spaces are
provided, they shall be conspicuously designated as reserved for small or
compact cars only.
      (3)   Aisle widths. Parking area aisle widths shall conform to the
following table, which varies the width requirement according to the angle of
parking:
 
Parking Angle (Degrees) Req. Aisle Width
                        One-Way Traffic Two-Way Traffic
0                       13 ft.          19 ft.
30                      11 ft.          20 ft.
45                      13 ft.          21 ft.
60                      18 ft.          23 ft.
90                      24 ft.          24 ft.
 
      (4)   Wall. Where such areas are contiguous to a rural or residential
district (except when separated by a public street), a solid wall six feet in
height shall be installed on the district boundary line, which wall to be
reduced to four feet in height within the front yard area of the abutting rural
or residential district.
      (5)   Access. Space utilized for ingress and egress for a parking area
shall be from a two-way driveway and shall not exceed 30 feet in width measured
along the street frontage R.O.W. (right-of-way) and a minimum width of 24 feet
and shall not constitute more than 25% of the total frontage of the parking
area.
      (6)   Entrances and exits. Entrances and exits to parking lots and other
parking facilities shall be provided only at defined entry and exit locations
approved by the Development Services Department. Ingress and egress from
parking areas shall not be located less than 30 feet from any intersection
R.O.W.
      (7)   Passenger drop-off points. Drop-off points separated from street
traffic and readily accessible without hazardous maneuvering, shall be provided
in conjunction with the following uses: hotels, motels, hospitals and clinics,
educational facilities with 50 or more pupils, daycare centers, religious
facilities with 100 or more seats, transit terminals, major recreational
facilities, commercial airports, public buildings and offices and financial
services greater than 5,000 square feet of gross floor area.
   (G)   General design requirements.
      (1)   Unless no other practicable alternative is available, vehicle
parking areas shall be designed so that vehicles may exit such areas without
backing onto a public street. This requirement does not apply to parking areas
consisting of driveways that serve no more than two dwelling units.
      (2)   Vehicle parking areas for all developments shall be designed so
that sanitation, emergency and other public service vehicles can serve the
developments.
      (3)   Every vehicle parking area shall be designed so that vehicles do
not extend beyond the perimeter of the area onto adjacent properties or public
rights-of-way.
      (4)   All lights used to illuminate parking spaces shall be installed
pursuant to §§
153.150 through
153.153. The lights shall be no greater than 18 feet in height.
      (5)   Requirements for handicapped parking and access are required
pursuant to A.R.S. §§ 41-1492.01 et seq.
   (H)   Schedule of required off-street spaces.
      (1)   Use not listed. For a use not specifically listed, requirements
shall be the same as those for the most similar use listed as determined by the
Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Fractional amount. In calculating the total number of required off-
street parking spaces, fractional amounts are to be rounded to the nearest
whole number (one-half shall be rounded to the next highest number).
      (3)   Parking for places of public assembly. For buildings used for
public assembly, whether erected following the adoption of this chapter or
converted subsequently for same, parking shall be provided as indicated in the
requirements for off-street parking spaces on the following pages.
Requirements for Off-Street Parking Spaces
Requirements for Off-Street Parking Spaces
1.   Residential Uses
   a.    1- or 2-family residence; multiple dwellings; efficiency units; 1-bedro2 per dwelling unit
units; 2 or more bedroom units
   b.    Rooming houses, fraternities, sororities, resident-clubs, lodges, board1 space for each bedroom
houses
   c.    Mobile home parks and subdivisions                                     2 per dwelling unit, except that 1-
                                                                                      bedroom units require only 1 space
   d.    Elderly housing developments                                           1.5 per dwelling unit
                                                                                      1 space for every 4 seats in the
                                                                                      portion of the church building to be
   e.    Churches, religious institutions, including associated residential     used for services, plus spaces for
structures for religious personnel                                                    any residential use, as determined
                                                                                      in accordance with the parking
                                                                                      requirements set forth above for
                                                                                      residential uses
                                                                                      1 space per bed and breakfast guest
   f.    Bed and Breakfast                                                      unit plus required parking spaces
                                                                                      for resident family and 1 per
                                                                                      employee
2.    Commercial Sales/Services
   a.    Restaurants, bars, cocktail lounges
      1.    No carry-out; no drive-in and no delivery service                1 space per 100 sq. ft. of gross
                                                                                      floor area plus 1 per employee
      2.    Including carry-out/delivery service, including drive-in service Same as division 2.a.1 above, plus
site consumption                                                                      reservoir land capacity equal to 5
                                                                                      spaces per drive-in window
                                                                                      1 space per 100 sq. ft. of gross
                                                                                      floor area, or 1 space per every 3
   b.    Mortuaries, funeral homes                                              seats in the main assembly room,
                                                                                      whichever is greater, plus 1 per
                                                                                      employee plus 1 per commercial
                                                                                      funeral vehicle
   c.    Laundries
      1.    Self-service laundries                                           1 space per 3 washing machines, plus
                                                                                      1 space per employee
      2.    Dry-cleaners                                                     1 space per 100 sq. ft. of gross
                                                                                      floor area
                                                                                      1 space per 500 sq. ft of sales area
   d.    Open air businesses, including used-car lots                           for the first 2,000 sq. ft., plus 1
                                                                                      per each additional 2,000 sq. ft.
   e.    Theaters, auditoriums, arenas, indoor and outdoor stadiums, amusement p1 space per 3 seats, plus reservoir
automobile and motorcycle racing tracks                                               lane capacity equal to 3 spaces for
                                                                                      entrance/exit
                                                                                      1 per 2 gas pumps, plus 1 space per
   f.    Retail gas; gas service stations                                       200 sq. ft. of gross floor area of
                                                                                      building devoted primarily to gas
                                                                                      sales operation
   g.    Carwash
                                                                                      1 space per each employee, plus
      1.    Automatic/conveyer type                                          reserve spaces equal to 3 times the
                                                                                      wash lane capacity
                                                                                      2 spaces for drying and cleaning
      2.    Manual/self-service                                              purposes per stall, plus 3 reservoir
                                                                                      spaces in front of each stall
   h.    Motor vehicle and machinery sales                                      1 per 800 sq. ft. of floor area
   i.    Planned shopping centers under unified control                         1 per 200 sq. ft. of gross floor
                                                                                      area
   j.    Barber shops, beauty shops                                             1 per chair and 1 per employee
   k.    Furniture and appliance store, household equipment                     1 per 800 sq. ft. of usable floor
                                                                                      area
   l.    Retail stores (except where otherwise specified)                       1 per 200 sq. ft. of public floor
                                                                                      area
                                                                                      1 per guestroom or suite plus 1 per
                                                                                      2 employees plus additional space
   m.    Hotels, motels                                                         (in accordance with other sections
                                                                                      of this table) for restaurants or
                                                                                      other facilities
   n.    Bus depots                                                             1 per 150 sq. ft. of waiting room
                                                                                      space
                                                                                      1 space for every 3 persons of
                                                                                      maximum capacity permitted by fire
                                                                                      regulations (if they can be measured
   o.    Skating rinks, dance halls, dance studios, bowling alleys, gymnasiums, in such a fashion. Example: tennis
health studios                                                                        courts or bowling alleys), plus 1
                                                                                      space per 200 sq. ft. of gross floor
                                                                                      area used in a manner not
                                                                                      susceptible to such calculations
   p.    Billiard parlors                                                       1 per 2 billiard tables, plus 1 per
                                                                                      2 employees
                                                                                      2 spaces per court, plus 1 per
   q.    Private tennis clubs and similar uses                                  employee, plus 1 per 200 sq. ft. of
                                                                                      usable enclosed building area
   r.    Wholesale                                                              1 space per employee, plus 1 space
                                                                                      per 100 sq. ft. of floor area
   s.    Business offices designed to attract and serve customers or clients on 1 space per 200 sq. ft. of gross
premises, such as offices of attorneys, physicians, insurance and stockbrokers,       floor area
travel agents
                                                                                      1 space per 200 sq. ft. of area
                                                                                      within enclosed buildings, plus 1
   t.    Golf courses                                                           space for every 3 persons that the
                                                                                      outdoor facilities are designed to
                                                                                      accommodate when used to maximum
                                                                                      capacity
                                                                                      2 spaces for caretaker residence
   u.    Self-service storage facility                                          and/or office, plus 1 guest space
                                                                                      per 50 units
                                                                                      1 space per 200 sq. ft. of area
   v.    Banks with drive-up windows                                            within main building plus reservoir
                                                                                      land capacity equal to 5 spaces per
                                                                                      window
3.    Manufacturing/Industrial Uses
                                                                                      1 per 500 sq. ft. of gross floor
                                                                                      area or 1 per employee, whichever is
   -                                                                               greater, and 1 per company vehicle
                                                                                      (except PM District; see §
                                                                                      153.045)
4.    Schools
   a.    Nursery schools, daycare centers                                       1 space per employee plus 1 space
                                                                                      per 200 sq. ft. of gross floor area
   b.    Elementary schools                                                     1.5 spaces per classroom plus 1
                                                                                      space per employee
   c.    Secondary schools                                                      5 spaces per classroom plus 1 space
                                                                                      per employee
   d.    Trade or vocational schools                                            1 space per 100 sq. ft. of gross
                                                                                      floor area
   e.    Colleges, universities, community colleges                             1 space per 150 sq. ft. of gross
                                                                                      floor area
 
   (I)   Parking area surfacing improvements.
      (1)   Single family dwelling sites, used for one permanent dwelling only,
irrespective of plan area designation or zoning district, shall be exempt from
parking area improvements.
      (2)   Mobile home park office area shall meet standards for commercial
uses thresholds for improvements.
      (3)   Commercial uses thresholds for improvements:
         (a)   Vehicle parking areas for commercial businesses shall be paved
with asphaltic concrete or other dust-free material, and shall be properly
drained to prevent impoundment of surface water in the following instances:
            1.   The commercial business includes driving lanes for drive-in
windows; and
            2.   The commercial business is required to have over 20 parking
spaces or a gross area of 6,000 square feet of parking area allocated.
         (b)   Vehicle parking areas for commercial businesses located within
the area designated as rural for the purpose of administration of the
International Building Code are required to be paved when parking area is
adjacent to or within 25 feet from the right-of-way of an arterial roadway and
meets the criteria set forth in divisions (I)(3)(a)1. and (I)(3)(a)2. above.
These parking areas shall be subject to improvement as outlined.
         (c)   Vehicle parking areas located in the urban designation area that
are less than 3,600 square feet of parking area or less than ten parking
spaces; or located in the rural designation area and less than 6,000 square
feet or less than 20 parking spaces shall be graded and provided with an all-
weather surface, dust-free gravel surface, or equivalent, in conformance with
County Fire District regulations and approved by the Town Engineer, and shall
be properly drained to prevent impoundment of surface water. Parking areas with
gravel surface need not be marked; however, they must be set off from the
street and from other portions of the site by curbing or equivalent screening
around the perimeter of the parking area, except for clearly defined points of
ingress and egress.
         (d)   Vehicle parking areas that are not provided with the type of
surface specified in divisions (I)(1) through (I)(3) above shall be paved with
a bituminous surface treatment in accordance with adopted town improvement
standards, or with an equivalent treatment approved by the Town Engineer, and
shall be properly drained to prevent impoundment of surface water. The
perimeter of such parking areas shall be defined by bricks, stones, railroad
ties or other similar devices.
         (e)   Parking spaces in areas surfaced in accordance with division (I)
(3) above shall be appropriately demarcated with painted lines or other
markings. In instances where demarcation is not possible, the number of
required parking spaces shall be increased by 20%.
   (J)   Administrative waiver of requirements. Quantifiable standards of this
section may be modified up to a maximum of 10%, when it is demonstrated that an
unusual site or use condition exists and when the adjustment will not result in
a danger to persons or property or in increased traffic.
   (K)   Parking lot landscaping.
 
Number of Parking Spaces Percent of Area to be Landscaped
0-20 spaces              0%
21-50 spaces             6%
51 spaces and over       9%
 
   (L)   Handicap parking guidelines. The guidelines from ADA (Americans with
Disability Act) are as follows:
      (1)   Each parking lot provided for employees or visitors is required to
have accessible (handicap) parking spaces.
      (2)   Accessible parking spaces must be the closest spaces to the
building's accessible entrance.
      (3)   Accessible spaces must be at least 96 inches wide with a clearly
marked adjacent access aisle of 60 inches. Two spaces may share a common aisle.
(See Diagram A below)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dabe9726ae38701612cdb69c32e218ccf7d4b064/
IMAGES/0-0-0-704.jpg]
 
      (4)   The access aisle must connect directly to the accessible route.
      (5)   Spaces and aisles must be level with no slope greater than 1:50.
      (6)   All accessible parking spaces must have an unobscured vertical sign
that shows the universal symbol of accessibility. (See Diagram B below)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dabe9726ae38701612cdb69c32e218ccf7d4b064/
IMAGES/0-0-0-707.jpg]
 
      (7)   Number of accessible spaces per number of total spaces in lot:
Total Parking in Lot Min. No. of Accessible Spaces
Total Parking in Lot Min. No. of Accessible Spaces
1 to 25              1
26 to 50             2
51 to 75             3
76 to 100            4
101 to 150           5
151 to 200           6
201 to 300           7
301 to 400           8
401 to 500           9
501 to 1,000         2% of total parking spaces
1,001 and above      20 plus 1 for each 100 spaces over 1,000
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dabe9726ae38701612cdb69c32e218ccf7d4b064/
IMAGES/0-0-0-710.jpg]
 
(Ord. § 602(I), passed 9-4-2008)
§ 153.111 OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Generally. In all zoning districts, for every building or part
thereof; erected or enlarged after the effective date of this section, which is
occupied by a use receiving or distributing materials or merchandise by motor
truck, there shall be provided and maintained on the same premises as the
building or use, adequate off-street loading space meeting the minimum
requirements hereinafter specified. Loading space shall not be considered as
satisfying requirements for off-street parking space.
   (B)   Schedule of loading space requirements.
 
Total Floor Area of Building        Number of Loading Spaces Required
20,000 sq. ft. to 30,000 sq. ft.    1 space
30,001 sq. ft. to 50,000 sq. ft.    2 spaces
For each 100,000 additional sq. ft. 1 additional space
 
   (C)   Location. Required off-street loading space shall not be permitted in
any front yard, nor in any required side yard, except in a nonresidential
district where a side yard abuts an alley. Off-street loading space may occupy
all or any part of a required rear yard, except as otherwise provided for, and
may be partially or entirely enclosed within a building.
   (D)   Alleys. Where a building or use in a nonresidential district abuts an
alley, the alley may be used as maneuvering space for loading and unloading
spaces; provided, however, that no alley abutting any residential district may
be so used.
   (E)   Size. Every required off-street loading space shall have a minimum
width of 12 feet, a minimum length of 45 feet and a minimum height of 14 feet,
exclusive of access aisles and maneuvering space.
(Ord. 08-44 § 602(II), passed 10-21-2008)
§ 153.112 STREET NAMING AND ADDRESSING.
   (A)   Title and purpose.
      (1)   Purpose. The town establishes this section in order to provide for
the uniform assignment of property numbers, to provide for the naming of new
streets and renaming of old streets with conflicting or duplicate names in
order to provide for efficient emergency services and provide for the safety of
the residents of the town, providing for the enforcement of this section, and
prescribing penalties for the violation thereof.
      (2)   Short title. For the purposes of identification, these regulations
shall be known as the "Street Naming and Addressing Ordinance for the Town of
Dewey-Humboldt."
   (B)   Applicability. This section shall apply to all lands within the
incorporated area of the town and any incorporated areas included through
intergovernmental agreement.
   (C)   General provisions.  The street naming and addressing system for the
Town of Dewey-Humboldt shall prescribe to the Yavapai County adopted Street
Naming and Addressing ordinance (Yavapai County Planning and Zoning Ordinance,
Section 604).
(Ord. 08-44 § 604, passed 10-21-2008)
SIGN CODE
§ 153.125 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of the Sign Code is:
      (1)   To provide freedom and flexibility for the design, construction and
maintenance of signs in harmony with the values and character of this country
community;
      (2)   To preserve aesthetics, maintain property values, protect the
general public from damage or injury caused by distractions/hazards/
obstructions; which result from improperly designed or located signs;
      (3)   To insure that the constitutionally guaranteed right of free speech
is protected; and
      (4)   To regulate signs in a manner that does not favor commercial speech
over noncommercial speech and does not regulate protected speech by message or
content.
   (B)   This subchapter shall be known and cited as the Town of Dewey-Humboldt
Sign Code.
(Ord. 17-138, passed 9-19-2017)
§ 153.126 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AWNING. A shelter or cover projecting from and supported by an exterior wall
of a building.
   BANNER. A temporary sign composed of lightweight material, enclosed or not
enclosed in a rigid frame, secured or mounted so as to allow movement of the
sign.
   BILLBOARD. An off-premise sign that is free-standing and ground-mounted.
   CHANGEABLE COPY. A sign on which copy is changed electronically or manually.
   COMPREHENSIVE SIGN PLAN. A coordinated program of all signs, including
exempt and temporary signs for a business, or businesses if applicable, located
on a development site. The sign program shall include, but not be limited to
indications of the locations, dimensions, and sign types of all signs to be
located on a site.
   EMBLEM. A symbol representing any government, whether state, federal or
local.
   ERECT. To build, construct, alter, repair, display, relocate, attach, hand,
place, suspend, affix, or maintain any sign including the painting of exterior
wall signs.
   FLAG. Any fabric or banner containing distinctive colors, patterns, or
symbols used as a symbol of a government, whether state, federal or local.
   FRONTAGE. The length of the property line of a premises along a public
right-of-way.
   GROUND LEVEL. The average ground elevation within ten feet measured
horizontally to the sign base.
   POSTER. A temporary bill or placard.
   SANDWICH BOARD. A temporary sign which is of the A-frame type that sits on
the ground.
   SIGN. Any device or structure which draws attention to an object, product,
place, activity, opinion, person, organization or business.
   SIGN, ABANDONED. A permanent sign which is no longer safe or no longer
serves its intended purpose.
   SIGN, FREESTANDING. A sign which is erected on its own self-supporting
permanent structure, not attached to a building.
   SIGN, GOVERNMENT. A sign erected and maintained pursuant to and in discharge
of any governmental function or required by a law or ordinance or governmental
regulations, including official notices.
   SIGN, ILLUMINATED. A sign with an artificial light source incorporated
internally or externally.
   SIGN, NONCONFORMING. Any sign which does not conform to the regulations for
signs for the district in which it is located but which when first constructed
was lawfully permitted, constructed and installed or was lawfully installed in
another political jurisdiction prior to annexation to the town.
   SIGN, NUMBER OF FACES ON.
      (1)   Single-faced . If a sign has copy on one side only.
      (2)   Double-faced. If the angle between the two sign faces is less than
45 degrees, the sign shall be considered double-faced; the sign area will be
the area of one face only.
   SIGN, OFF-PREMISES. A permanent sign providing information or directing
attention to a business, place, activity, goods, services, entertainment or
product which is not conducted, sold or offered on the property on which the
sign is located or which does not pertain to the property upon which the sign
is located.
   SIGN, ON-PREMISES. A sign providing information or directing attention to a
business, place, activity, goods, services or products on the same property on
which the sign is located.
   SIGN, PERMANENT. A sign constructed of durable materials, attached to the
ground or a building and intended to remain in use for six months or more.
   SIGN, POLITICAL. A temporary sign regulated pursuant to A.R.S. § 16-1019.
   SIGN, PORTABLE. A sign designed or constructed in such a manner that it can
be moved or relocated without involving any structural or support changes.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. Any sign attached to a building or other structure and
extending in whole or in pail more than 12 inches beyond the building.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. A sign intended to remain in use for less than six months.
   SIGN, WALL. A sign fastened to or painted on the wall of a building in such
a manner that the wall becomes the supporting structure for, or forms the
background surface of the sign and which does not project more than 12 inches
from the building.
   SIGN, WINDOW. A sign that is painted on or adhered to the interior or
exterior of a glass window or door and is visible from the exterior of the
glass window or door.
   STANDARD. A post embedded in the ground on which a sign is mounted.
(Ord. 17-138, passed 9-19-2017)
§ 153.127 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as provided for exempt signs, it shall be
unlawful for any person to construct, install, attach, place, paint, alter,
relocate, or otherwise maintain any sign in the town without first obtaining a
sign permit in accordance with this sign code.
   (B)   Requirement of conformity. Signs shall not be installed, placed, or
maintained in the town except in conformance with this sign code. If provisions
of this sign code conflict with any other town code, the more restrictive
requirement(s) shall apply. Signs maintained contrary to the provisions of this
sign code are declared to be nuisances and may be abated as provided by law.
   (C)   Fees. Sign permit fees shall be as adopted by the town council by
resolution.
   (D)   Sign permit application. Application for a sign permit shall be made
to the community development department on forms provided by the town and shall
include at a minimum the following information:
      (1)    Assessor’s parcel number identifying the property;
      (2)   Street address, if any, legal description of the property, and
dimensions thereof. If the parcel is not located within a recorded subdivision,
a metes and bounds legal description shall be submitted with the application;
      (3)   Zoning designation of the property on which the sign will be
located;
      (4)   Type of sign and materials used, methods of support, freestanding
or other;
      (5)   Estimated true value of sign and associated structural supports;
      (6)   Dimensions of sign panel as well as bottom and top heights above
grade;
      (7)   Type, placement and strength of illumination, if any;
      (8)   Number and orientations of faces of sign (aerial-view sketch, if
necessary, to depict faces and orientation);
      (9)   A final plot plan showing the following:
         (a)   Shape and dimensions of lot boundaries, adjacent street right-
of-way, driveways, buildings (existing and proposed);
         (b)   North designation; and
         (c)   Location of sign(s) on property (indicate type),
      (10)   A final elevation view, with dimensions and approximate copy ad
design, of the sign(s) faces;
      (11)   Such other information as the zoning administrator may require for
the purpose of determining whether the application complies with the sign code
requirements;
      (12)   Name, address and telephone number of property owner and agent, if
any; and
      (13)   Signature of applicant or agent.
   (E)   Signs not requiring permits. Exempt signs not requiring permits shall
comply with all other requirements and restrictions of this code.
   (F)   Temporary sign permits. Signs with a limited duration of use, such as
those provided in § 153.130, shall obtain a temporary sign permit. The
requirements and criteria for such signs are as follows:
      (1)    Temporary sign permits shall be issued for no more than six
months. An extension of a temporary sign permit may be obtained pursuant to the
granting of a use permit.
      (2)    Temporary signs shall conform to all other requirements of this
code.
   (G)   Sign permit review; time frames.
      (1)   Within ten business days of submission of an application for a sign
permit, staff shall review the application for completeness. If the application
is not complete, the applicant will be notified of the deficiency via email,
telephone, or first class mail.
      (2)   Within thirty business days of receipt of a complete application,
town staff shall review the application for compliance with the regulations set
forth in this code and in the town code, as applicable, and shall issue the
permit or notify the applicant of deficiencies and the need for corrections.
      (3)   For a comprehensive sign plan, the review of the complete
application for compliance with the town regulations shall be extended to
forty-five days from the date of submission, or as may be otherwise agreed upon
by the town and the applicant.
   (H)   Exempt signs. The following types of signs are exempt from permitting
requirements but shall be subject to the regulations set forth below. No more
than two exempt signs shall be allowed per business or residential lot:
 
Districts             Type             Number Permitted Maximum Area and Height
All districts         Government signs No limit         No limit
All districts         Posters          No limit         §
                                                        153.128(j)
All districts         Flags            No limit         No limit
All districts         Sandwich boards  2 per frontage   10 sq. ft.
Commercial districts  Window signs     No limit         No limit
Residential districts Wall, window, or No limit         16 sq. ft.
                      ground-mounted
(Ord. 17-138, passed 9-19-2017)
§ 153.128 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   Except as may be further restricted in specific zones, all signs shall be
subject to the following:
   (A)   No sign shall be audible.
   (B)   Lighted beacons, searchlights or similar lights, are prohibited (see
Light Pollution, §§
153.150 through
153.153).
   (C)   No signs are permitted in the public right-of-way, including public
roadway easements.
   (D)   No sign shall be attached to a utility pole, light standard, bridge or
other fixture in the public right-of-way.
   (E)   No sign shall be painted directly on or affixed to any natural object
in its natural location.
   (F)   No sign shall exceed 30 feet in height.
   (G)   No sign shall be placed in a location that obstructs or interferes
with any official traffic signs and/or devices or obstructs a driver’s view of
oncoming, merging or intersecting traffic.
   (H)   No sign shall display any statement, symbol or picture of an obscene
nature.
   (I)   Signs may be painted directly onto vertical structural surfaces.
   (J)   Signs that are not allowed in a residential zone shall not be placed
within 20 linear feet of any residentially zoned property.
   (K)   New signs exceeding eight square feet in area or exceeding eight feet
in height shall follow the permitting requirements specified in §
153.127.
   (L)   All freestanding signs shall maintain a one foot setback for each foot
of sign height.
   (M)   The square footage of a sign made up of letters, words, or symbols
within a frame or border shall be determined from the outside edge of the frame
or border itself. The square footage of a sign composed only of letters, words
or symbols shall be determined from imaginary straight lines drawn around the
entire copy or grouping of the letters words or symbols. Only those portions of
the construction elements that are an integral part of the sign itself shall be
considered in the allocation of square footage allowed.
   (N)   Signs deemed dangerous, abandoned or in substantial violation of this
sign code by the Zoning Administrator or designee, shall require correction
within 30 days of official notification. In addition to the penalties provided
pursuant to the zoning code, the town may pursue additional remedies in
superior court for failure to correct violations of the sign code.
   (O)   Sandwich board signs shall be displayed only during times when the
business being advertised is open for business.
   (P)   Legal nonconforming signs existing prior to the effective date of this
subchapter or amendments thereto, shall be permitted to continue subject to
general provisions regarding the removal of dangerous or abandoned signs and
off-premises signs of this code, regarding obsolescence and abandonment.
Continuation shall include the right to repaint or change the message or copy
on the sign, provided the size and height is not increased and provided the
sign is not converted from on-premises to off-premises use. Changes of
ownership and/or business name shall not in and of itself alter the right of
continued use of a sign. If a nonconforming sign becomes a hazard to public
safety, it shall be removed, in compliance with state law and this code.
(Ord. 17-138, passed 9-19-2017)
§ 153.129 SIGN REGULATIONS FOR USE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Attached on-premises signs shall be on the occupant’s building only.
   (B)   Awning signs shall only be allowed on the ground floor of a building.
Districts Type Number Permitted Setbacks/ Area & Height Lighting Permit
                                Location
Districts   Type          Number        Setbacks/   Area & Height Lighting                                                      Permit
                          Permitted     Location
                                        Minimum 200 Maximum area:
                                        feet from a 200 sq. ft.
All         Off-premises                residential Maximum       May be illuminated internally or by external source see §§
districts   wall signs    1 per parcel  zoned       height: 20    153.150 -                                                      
                                        district    ft. from      153.153
                                        boundary    ground where
                                                    located
                                        1. Minimum
                                        1,500 feet
                                        from
                                        another
                                        billboard
                                        located on
                                        the same    Maximum 300
                                        side of the sq. ft. per
                                        highway;    face with a
                                        and         maximum 25
                                        2. Only on  ft. vertical  May be illuminated. See §§
                                        parcels     face and 60   153.150 -
Commercial                              contiguous  ft.           153.153.
(C) and                                 to state    horizontal    Shall not be intermittent, flashing, scintillating, animated
Industrial  Off-premises               highway     face.         or of varying intensity.                                       
(M)         billboards*                 right-of-   Maximum       If located in the same line of vision as a traffic control
Districts                               way; and    height: 30    signal, no red, green or yellow illumination shall be used.
                                        3. Minimum  ft. measured  Lighting source shall be so oriented or shielded so that it
                                        500 ft.     from grade    is not visible from the highway right-of-way or from any
                                        from        (including    residential use district.
                                        beginning   all
                                        or end of   supporting
                                        pavement    structures)
                                        widening at
                                        the exit
                                        from or
                                        entrance to
                                        any portion
                                        of the
                                        highway.
C2, C3, M1  Temporary                               Maximum area:
and M2      off-premises                          48 sq. ft.    No                                                            Yes
districts   signs                                   Maximum
                                                    height: 8 ft.
Residential                                         Maximum area:
and multi-                                          15 sq. ft.    Yes. See §§
family of                1                        Maximum       153.150 -                                                     No
less than 4                                         height: 16    153.153.
units                                               ft.
Multi-                                              Maximum area:
family      Wall or       1 per street              16 sq. ft.    Yes. See §§
(more than  freestanding  frontage                 Maximum       153.150 -                                                     Yes
4 units)                                            height: 10    153.153.
                                                    ft.
                                                    Maximum area: Yes. See §§
Residential Monument      2                        120 sq. ft.   153.150 -                                                     Yes
districts                                           Maximum       153.153
                                                    height: 6 ft.
                          On property
                          less than 5
                          acres: 4
                          total; 3 wall
            Wall or       and 1
            freestanding, freestanding.                           Yes. See §§
Commercial, which may be  On property 5                         153.150 -                                                     Yes
industrial  double- sided acres or                                153.153.
districts                 more: 3 total
                          and if
                          frontage on
                          two roads, 2
                          freestanding
            Temporary     3 per each               Maximum area: No                                                            Yes
            banners       road frontage             64 sq. ft.
Commercial                1 per                     Maximum area:
complexes   Wall or       business on               150 sq. ft.   Yes. See §§
(for more   freestanding  each road                Maximum       153.150 -                                                     Yes
than 3      sign          frontage                  height: 30    153.153
commercial                                          ft.
use                       3 per
occupants   Temporary     business on              Maximum area: No                                                            Yes
jointed     banners       each road                 64 sq. ft.
together)                 frontage
                                                    Per approved
PAD                                              comprehensive Yes                                                           Yes
                                                    sign plan
(Ord. 17-138, passed 9-19-2017)
§ 153.130 SIGN REGULATIONS, MOBILE HOME, TRAVEL TRAILER AND RECREATIONAL
VEHICLE PARKS.
   (A)   Signs placed or maintained at the entrance to or within any mobile
home park are subject to all the regulations set forth under §
153.129 for residential and multi-family zoning districts.
   (B)   Signs placed or maintained at the entrance to or within travel trailer
parks and recreational vehicle parks are subject to all the regulations set
forth under §
153.129 for the zoning district within which they are located.
(Ord. 17-138, passed 9-19-2017)
LIGHT POLLUTION CONTROL
§ 153.150 INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   Incorporation by reference. A.R.S. Title 49, Chapter 7, Light
Pollution, §§ 49-1101 et seq., is hereby incorporated by reference.
   (B)   Mission statement.  To afford every citizen of the town the
flexibility to engage in the pursuit of safe, effective lighting practices for
the purpose of commerce and private use without being impeded upon or impeding
upon other citizens desiring a more pristine nighttime environment free from
light pollution, waste, trespass or clutter while providing nighttime safety,
security and productivity.
   (C)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   The use of outdoor lighting is often necessary for adequate
nighttime safety and utility, but common lighting practices can also interfere
with other legitimate public concerns.
         (a)   Principal among these concerns are:
            1.   The degradation of the nighttime visual environment by
production of unsightly and dangerous glare;
            2.   Unnecessary waste of energy and resources in the production of
too much light or wasted light;
            3.   Interference in the use or enjoyment of property which is not
intended to be illuminated at night;
            4.   The loss of the often-neglected scenic view of the heavens due
to increased urban skyglow; and
            5.   Lighting practices that interfere with the health and safety
of the town citizens and visitors.
         (b)   It is hereby recognized that these different interests of
safety, utility and those of aesthetic appearance need not compete. Good modern
lighting practices can provide adequate light for safety and utility without
excessive glare or light pollution. Careful attention to questions of when and
where and how much nighttime lighting is needed will lead to better lighting
practice from all viewpoints.
      (2)   It is also recognized that the topography and atmospheric
conditions in northern Arizona are uniquely suited for government, military,
commercial, and private astronomical observation and that unnecessary or
excessive uses of outdoor nighttime lighting have an adverse impact on
astronomical research and observation, even at relatively distant
observatories.
      (3)   Accordingly, it is the intent of this subchapter of the Planning
and Zoning Ordinance to encourage lighting practices and systems which will
minimize light pollution, glare, light trespass, and conserve energy while
maintaining nighttime safety, utility, security and productivity.
   (D)   Conflicting regulations. In the event of conflict between the
regulations set forth in this section of this chapter and any other regulations
applicable to the same area, the more stringent limitation or requirement shall
govern.
(Ord. § 603(A), passed 9-4-2008)
§ 153.151 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLASS 1 LIGHTING. All outdoor lighting used for but not limited to outdoor
sales or eating areas, assembly or repair areas, advertising and other signs,
recreational facilities and other similar applications where color rendition is
important to preserve the effectiveness of the activity.
   CLASS 2 LIGHTING.  All outdoor lighting used for but not limited to
illumination for walkways, roadways, equipment yards, parking lots and outdoor
security where general illumination of the grounds is the primary concern.
   CLASS 3 LIGHTING. Any outdoor lighting used for decorative effects,
including but not limited to architectural illumination, flag monument
lighting, and illumination of trees, bushes and the like.
   DEVELOPMENT PROJECT. Any residential, commercial, industrial or mixed use
subdivision plan or individual building development or remodeling plan, which
is submitted to the town for approval.
   DIRECT ILLUMINATION.  Illumination resulting from light emitted directly
from a lamp, luminaire or reflector, not light diffused through translucent
signs or reflected from other surfaces such as the ground or building faces.
   FOOT-CANDLE (FC). A unit of measure used to specify illuminate; how much
light is falling per square foot onto a surface. One FOOT-CANDLE of
illumination arises when one lumen is spread onto one square foot of surface.
It is the luminous flux per unit area in the Imperial system. One FOOT-CANDLE
equals approximately ten lux.
   FULLY SHIELDED FIXTURE. Fixtures are shielded in such a manner that light
rays emitted by the fixture, either directly from the lamp or indirectly from
the fixture, are projected below the horizontal from the lowest point of the
bulb within the fixture.
      (1)   A practical working way to determine if a fixture or tube is fully
shielded: if the lamp or tube, any reflective surface, or lens cover (clear or
prismatic) is visible when viewed from above or directly from the side, from
any angle around the fixture or tube, the fixture or tube is not fully
shielded.
      (2)   Examples of fixtures that are fully shielded (to be fully shielded
these fixtures must be closed on top and mounted such that the bottom opening
is horizontal):
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dabe9726ae38701612cdb69c32e218ccf7d4b064/
IMAGES/0-0-0-752.jpg]
 
      (3)   Examples of fixtures that are not fully shielded:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dabe9726ae38701612cdb69c32e218ccf7d4b064/
IMAGES/0-0-0-755.jpg]
 
         (a)   *Note: even though the lamp in these fixtures is shielded from
direct view when viewed from the side or above, reflective surfaces within the
fixture and or lens covers are directly visible from the side.
         (b)   Note for luminous (neon) tubes: when such lighting is installed
under or behind a roof overhang, if the roof line or eave is not horizontal,
the tubing may be visible from above when viewed from the side and therefore be
unshielded.
   GLARE.  The sensation produced by a bright source within the visual field
that is sufficiently brighter than the level to which the eyes are adapted to
cause annoyance, discomfort or loss of visual performance and visibility;
blinding light; GLARE and blinding light may be dangerous to the public health
and safety, as they may contribute to vehicular or other accidents. The
magnitude of GLARE depends on such factors as the size, position, brightness of
the source, and the brightness level to which the eye is adapted.
   INSTALLED. Attached, or fixed in place, whether or not connected to a power
source.
   LIGHT POLLUTION.  Any adverse effect of man-made light.
   LIGHT TRESPASS. Spill light falling over property lines that illuminates
adjacent grounds or buildings. Direct illumination shall be confined to the
property boundaries of the source.
   LUMEN. The unit used to measure the actual amount of visible light, which is
produced by a lamp as defined by the manufacturer. For purposes of determining
compliance with this subchapter, initial (not "maintained" or "mean") LUMEN
outputs of lamps (not fixtures) are the values to be considered. Examples of
LUMEN output of typical generic incandescent bulbs (W= Watt and L= Lumen): 60 W
= 840 L, 75 W = 1,125 L, 100 W = 1,600 L, 150 W = 2,780 L, 300 W = 4,620 L.
   LUMINAIRE. The complete lighting assembly, less the support assembly; a
light fixture.
   MULTI-CLASS LIGHTING. Any outdoor lighting used for more than one purpose,
such as security and decoration, when those purposes fall under the definitions
for two or more lighting classes as defined for Class 1, 2 and 3 Lighting
above.
   MOTION SENSING SECURITY LIGHTING.  A fixture designed, and properly
adjusted, to illuminate an area around a residence or other building by means
of the automatic switching on a lamp when motion is detected inside the area or
perimeter, and automatic switching of the lamp off when the detected motion
ceases.
   NEON LIGHTING. Lighting using luminous gas-filled tubes often formed into
text, symbols or decorative elements. NEON LIGHTING includes tubes with typical
diameters of 10 to 20 millimeters filled with neon, argon, xenon or other
gasses and producing various colors of light. Not included are replaceable
fluorescent tubes.
   NET ACREAGE. The remaining ground area of a parcel after deleting all
portions for proposed and existing public rights-of-way and undeveloped area.
   OUTDOOR LIGHT FIXTURES.  All outdoor illuminating devices, reflective
surfaces, lamps and other devices, either permanently installed or portable,
which are used for illumination or advertisement. Such devices shall include
but are not limited to search, spot and floodlights for:
      (1)   Buildings and structures;
      (2)   Recreational areas;
      (3)   Parking lot lighting;
      (4)   Landscape and architectural lighting;
      (5)   Billboards and other signs (advertising or other);
      (6)   Street lighting;
      (7)   Product display area lighting;
      (8)   Building overhangs and open canopies;
      (9)   Security lighting; and
      (10)   Pedestrian areas or walkways.
   OUTDOOR RECREATION FACILITY. An area designed for active recreation, whether
publicly or privately owned, including but not limited to parks, baseball and
softball diamonds, soccer and football fields, golf courses, tennis courts,
roping/equestrian activities and swimming pools.
   PERSON.  Includes a corporation, company, partnership, firm, association or
society, as well as a natural person.
   SECURITY LIGHTING. Lighting designed to illuminate a property or grounds for
the purpose of visual security. This includes fully shielded lighting designed
to remain on during nighttime hours in the absence of business activity as well
as motion sensing lighting fixtures.
   STREET LIGHTING. Lighting installed by or at the direction of the town or
other governmental agency to illuminate public roadways.
   TEMPORARY LIGHTING. Lighting which does not conform to the provisions of
this chapter and which will not be used for more than one 30-day period within
a calendar year. TEMPORARY LIGHTING is intended for uses which by their nature
are of limited duration, e.g., business grand openings or special civic event.
Road and construction projects are excluded.
   TOTAL OUTDOOR LIGHT OUTPUT. The maximum total amount of light, measured in
lumens, from all lamps used in outdoor light fixtures on a property. For lamp
types that vary in their output as they age (such as high pressure sodium and
metal halide), the initial output, as defined by the manufacturer, is the value
to be considered. Includes lighting from all area lighting fixtures, external
sign illumination and decorative (non-sign) neon tubes, but does not include
lighting used for permitted internally illuminated signs. Also does not include
interior lighting; provided, however, the lighting is directed and or shielded
in such a manner that it will not project primarily outside the building or
create glare or light trespass. Lighting used under service station canopies is
included toward the total output at 25% of the rated output of the lamps (see §
153.152(D)(4)(d)). Street lighting is exempt from total lumen count.
   UNSHIELDED FIXTURE.  An outdoor light fixture that allows light to be
emitted above the horizontal direction from the lowest point of the bulb within
the fixture.
   WATT. The unit used to measure the electrical power consumption (not the
light output) of a lamp.
(Ord. § 603(B), passed 9-4-2008)
§ 153.152 LIGHTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Preferred source. Due to their high energy efficiency, long life and
spectral characteristics, low-pressure sodium (LPS) lamps are currently the
preferred illumination source throughout the town. Their use is encouraged for
outdoor illumination whenever its use would not be detrimental to the use of
the property.
      (1)   Class 1 Lighting.  Businesses who choose to use at least 80% LPS
for their Class 1 application are eligible to apply for an additional 10%
increase in the lumens per acre allowed for their site.
      (2)   Class 2 Lighting. LPS lamps are required though up to 10% of the
total lumens used for Class 2 lighting may be non-LPS light. Ten percent white
light added to the LPS light permits nearly normal color perception.
   (B)   General.
      (1)   Outdoor floodlighting by flood light or spot light projection above
the horizontal is prohibited except for unshielded fixtures specifically
permitted under divisions (D)(5) and (D)(7) of this section and properly
adjusted motion sensing security lighting fixtures as defined in §
153.151.
      (2)   All commercial light fixtures are required to be shielded and shall
be installed in such a manner that the shielding complies with the definition
of fully shielded fixtures. Residential requirements and exceptions are
provided in division (C) below. Building lighting that incorporates the colors
of a company logo, trademark or sign shall be considered as signage.
      (3)   All light fixtures, including security lighting, except street
lamps, shall be aimed or shielded so that the direct illumination shall be
confined to the property boundaries of the source. Particular care is to be
taken to assure that the direct illumination does not fall onto or across any
public or private street or road. Motion sensing lighting fixtures shall be
properly adjusted, according to the manufacturer's instructions, to turn off
when detected motion ceases.
      (4)   Installation of new mercury vapor light fixtures has been
prohibited since May 22, 1985 in Yavapai County. Only mercury vapor replacement
bulbs shall be sold or installed for use as outdoor lighting within the town,
and the use of mercury vapor light fixtures for outdoor lighting is prohibited
after July 1, 2005.
      (5)   Search lights, laser source lights, strobe or flashing lights, or
any similar high-intensity portable and or temporary light shall not be
permitted, except for those utilized by law enforcement, emergency services
personnel, public utilities and road construction/maintenance crews or at their
direction.
      (6)   Class 1 Lighting, including but not limited to sales, service,
commercial, assembly, repair, maintenance and industrial areas, may only
continue in operation until 10:00 p.m., or for as long as the area is in active
use but once off remain off during non-business hours.
      (7)   Class 2 Lighting shall have no time restrictions unless stipulated
as a condition of approval for new projects.
      (8)   Class 3 Lighting shall be extinguished after 10:00 p.m. or when the
business closes, whichever is later and remain off during non-business hours,
low-wattage decorations for recognized holidays shall be counted towards the
business properties' total lumen count. Flagpole lighting is exempt.
         (a)   Up-lighting or ground-mounted lighting may be allowed to accent
unique features of a building (such as outstanding architectural features but
not an entire building) and/or surrounding landscaping (specimen trees with
dense year round foliage or large native shrub masses) subject to approval by
the Development Services Director or Zoning Administrator or his/her designee.
Up-lighting or ground-mounted lighting shall be designed and installed in such
a manner as to minimize glare with special consideration in areas where there
is vehicle and pedestrian traffic, or where such lighting will not unduly
interfere with use and enjoyment of adjacent or nearby properties.
         (b)   All feature lighting which is directed upwards shall be placed
in such a manner that the angle of the lamp shall not be greater than 45
degrees measured from a horizontal plane to a line projected through the center
of the lamp, and fixtures shall be shielded to contain and direct the light
onto the feature to be lighted.
      (9)   Multi-class lighting, except for security lights, must conform to
the time limitations of the most strict class.
      (10)   Except as permitted in divisions (D)(2), (D)(4) and (D)(6) below,
total outdoor light output as defined in §
153.151, excluding streetlights used for illumination of public rights-of-way,
of any development project other than single family residential (see division
(C) of this section) shall not exceed 100,000 lumens per net acre, averaged
over the entire property. Of this total no more than 5,500 lumens per net acre
may be used in unshielded fixtures.
   (C)   Residential.
      (1)   Class lighting.  Residential lighting, as it may contain certain
aspects of any of the lighting classes as may be found in Class 1, 2 or 3 as
defined in §
153.151 shall be considered allowed so long as the intended use is allowed
within the particular zoning district.
      (2)   Shielding. Fully shielded fixtures are required for all lamps.
      (3)   Lighting amount. Residential parcels containing more than one acre
are allowed 20,000 lumens of lighting. Residential parcels containing one-half
acre to one net acre are allowed 10,000 lumens of lighting. Residential parcels
containing less than one-half acre are allowed 7,500 lumens of lighting. Motion
sensing lights, as defined in §
153.151, shall not be subject to the noted lumen cap. Motion sensing lights can
be turned to "constant on" for the purposes of illuminating yard areas for
private recreational activities such as barbeques, parties, working with
livestock or other similar gatherings without need for a temporary permit so
long as they are returned to their automatic settings at the conclusion of the
activity.
      (4)   Certification. Applicant to provide manufacturer's cut-sheet/
catalog information detailing fixture shielding and lumen output of bulbs to be
installed, and where required by the Development Services Director or Zoning
Administrator or his/her designee, a drawing/illustration of the proposed
shielded fixture.
      (5)   Curfew.  Outside, unshielded lighting shall be extinguished after
10:00 p.m and remain off until daylight. Motion sensing security lighting is
exempted. No dusk to dawn controls are permitted for unshielded lighting.
      (6)   Exemptions. Low lumen decorative lighting for recognized holidays,
permanent low lumen landscape lighting (180 lumens or less per bulb) and flag
lighting are exempt from the total lumen count for a given property.
   (D)   Commercial/nonresidential.
      (1)   Airport. Airport lighting which is required for the safe and
efficient movement of aircraft during flight, take-off, landing and taxiing is
exempt from the provisions of this chapter. Lighting used for illumination of
aircraft loading, unloading, and servicing areas is exempt from the lumens per
net acre limits of division (B)(10) above, although it must conform to all
other requirements of this chapter. All other outdoor lighting at airport
facilities shall comply with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Outdoor display lots.
         (a)   Class. Lighting for outdoor display lots shall be considered
Class 1 (Color Rendition).
         (b)   Shielding. All such lighting shall utilize fully shielded
luminaries that are installed in a fashion that maintains the fully-shielded
characteristics.
         (c)   Lighting amount. Lighting amounts may exceed the limit listed in
division (B)(10) for the area of the display only. However, when the proposed
lumens per acre exceed the limits of division (B)(10), the installation shall
be designed to achieve no greater than the minimum luminance levels for the
activity as recommended by the Illuminating Engineering Society of North
America (IESNA). If IESNA has more than one applicable recommended practice,
then the lowest figure shall apply. Street lighting is exempt from the total
lumen count for a given property.
         (d)   Off-site spill. The installation shall limit off-site spill (off
the parcel containing the display lot) to a maximum of 0.5 fc at any location
on any nonresidential property, and 0.05 fc at any location on any residential
property, as measurable from any orientation of the measuring device.
         (e)   Curfew. Outdoor display lot lighting exceeding the lumens per
acre cap of division (B)(11) shall be turned off at 10:00 p.m. or within 30
minutes after closing of the business or activity, whichever is later, and once
off remain off during non-business hours. Lighting in the outdoor display lot
after this time shall be limited to Class 2 lighting, and shall conform to all
restrictions of this subchapter applicable for this class, including the lumens
per acre caps in division (B)(10) and lamp type standards of division (A) of
this section.
         (f)   Certification. Every such lighting system shall be certified by
an Arizona registered engineer, other certified lighting specialist or
equivalent manufacturer documentation as conforming to all applicable
restrictions of this subchapter as installed.
      (3)   Parking lot. Lighting standards (poles) shall be sized in such a
manner that the top of any luminaire does not exceed 18 feet above adjacent
grade, unless otherwise stipulated as a condition of approval for new projects.
      (4)   Service station.
         (a)   Class.  Lighting for service station or similar canopies shall
be considered Class 1 lighting.
         (b)   Shielding. All luminaries shall be flush with the lower surface
of canopies and utilize flat glass or plastic covers.
         (c)   Canopy lighting amount. The total light output used for
illuminating service station canopies, defined as the sum of under-canopy
initial bare-lamp outputs in lumens, shall not exceed 60 lumens per square foot
of canopy. All lighting mounted under the canopy, except internally illuminated
signs, shall be included in the total.
         (d)   Inclusion toward total outdoor light output. Twenty-five percent
of the lumen output of all lamps mounted within or under a canopy, except
internally illuminated signs, is included in the lumen caps in division (B)
(10). Street lighting is exempt from the total lumen count for a given
property.
      (5)   Signs.
         (a)   Externally illuminated signs. Lighting used for all externally
illuminated signs shall conform to all restrictions of this chapter, shall be
fully shielded, and shall be turned off at 10:00 p.m. or when the business
closes, whichever is later. Such lighting is included in the total outdoor
output (see division (B)(10)).
         (b)   Internally illuminated signs. Outdoor internally illuminated
advertising signs shall either be constructed with an opaque background and
translucent letters and symbols or with a colored (not white, cream, off-white,
yellow or other light color) translucent background, with either translucent or
opaque letters and symbols. Opaque means only that the material must not
transmit light from the internal illumination source; the color of opaque
backgrounds is not restricted by this section. Lamps used for internal
illumination of such signs shall not be included in the lumens per net acre
limit set in division (B)(10).
         (c)   All illuminated signs shall be turned off at 10:00 p.m. or when
the business closes, whichever is later, and once off remain off during non-
business hours. Signs subject to this curfew must have functioning and properly
adjusted automatic timers.
            1.   All neon lighting (indoor or outdoor), except for that used in
permitted signage, shall be fully shielded and shall be turned off at 10:00
p.m. or when the business closes, whichever is later.
            2.   The requirements for shielding of light emissions for outdoor
light fixtures are as follows. The following table uses the following
Shielding/Use Code: A = allowed, unshielded, F = allowed, fully shielded.
Lamp Type Shielding
Lamp Type                               Shielding
Class 1, 2 and 3 Lighting:
   All lamp types above 2,050 lumens F (see Note 1)
   All types below 2,050 lumens      A (see Note 2)
   All neon tube lighting            F
Lamps in Motion Sensing Security Lights A (see division (B)(3) of this section)
(See B)
Note 1. Examples of lamp types of 2,050 lumens and below (the acceptability of
a particular light is decided by its initial lumen output, not wattage. Values
listed here are approximate. Check manufacturer's specifications):
   a.   100 watt standard incandescent and less
   b.   100 watt midbreak tungsten-halogen (quartz) and less
   c.   25 watt T-12 cool white fluorescent and less
   d.   18 watt low pressure sodium and less
Note 2. Lights shall be shielded or directed to minimize light spilled into the
night sky or adjacent properties.
 
      (6)   Sports field.
         (a)   Class. Lighting, in all cases, for all outdoor athletic fields,
courts, pools, tracks or ranges shall be considered Class 1 (Color Rendition).
Sports field lighting at schools is exempt from this chapter as provided for in
§
153.015 regarding publicly owned and operated facilities used for essential
government purposes.
         (b)   Shielding. Fully shielded lighting shall be required for fields
designed for amateur, recreational or non-professional sports activity. For
professional level sports facilities where fully shielded fixtures are not
utilized, acceptable luminaries shall include those which:
            1.   Are provided with internal or external glare control louvers,
or both, and installed so as to minimize up-light and off-site light trespass
as defined in §
153.151; and
            2.   Are installed and maintained with aiming angles that permit no
greater than 2% of the light emitted by each fixture to project above the
horizontal.
         (c)   Lighting amount. When the proposed lumens per acre exceeds the
limits of division (B)(10), the installation shall be designed to achieve no
greater than the minimum illuminance levels for the activity as recommended by
the Illuminating Engineering Society of North America (IESNA). If IESNA has
more than one applicable recommended practice, then the lowest figure shall
apply. Street lighting is exempt from the total lumen count for a given
property.
         (d)   Off-site spill. The installation shall also limit off-site spill
(off the parcel containing the sports facility) to a maximum of 0.5 fc at any
location on any nonresidential property, and 0.05 fc at any location on any
residential property, as measurable from any orientation of the measuring
device. If lighting products are not available to meet these standards, then
the product providing the lowest off-site spill levels shall be required.
         (e)   Curfew. All events shall be scheduled so as to complete all
activity by 10:00 p.m. Illumination of the playing field, court, track or range
shall be permitted after 10:00 p.m. only to conclude a scheduled event that was
unable to conclude before 10:00 p.m. due to unusual circumstances, and once off
remain off during non-business hours.
         (f)   Certification. Every such lighting system shall be certified by
an Arizona registered engineer, other certified lighting specialist or
equivalent manufacturer documentation as conforming to all applicable
restrictions of this chapter as installed.
         (g)   Non-field lighting. All site lighting not directly illuminating
the field, court, track or range shall conform to all applicable standards of
this subchapter.
      (7)   Nonconforming uses.
         (a)   Mercury vapor lamps are prohibited to be used for outdoor
lighting.
         (b)   No new bottom or side-mounted outdoor advertising sign lighting
shall be issued permits after July 1, 2005.
         (c)   No other outdoor lighting fixture or use which was lawfully
installed or implemented prior to the enactment of this subchapter shall be
required to be removed or modified except as expressly provided herein;
however, no modification or replacement shall be made to a nonconforming
fixture unless the fixture thereafter conforms to the provisions of this
chapter, except that identical lamp replacement is allowed. Time restrictions
described in divisions (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8), (B)(9), (D)(2)(e), (D)(5)(c),
and (D)(6)(e) of this section shall, however, be applied to such existing
lighting.
         (d)   In the event that the use of an outdoor lighting fixture is
discontinued for six months or is damaged to the point of requiring repairs for
safe operation, the repaired or replacement fixture shall comply with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 08-40, passed 6-3-2008)
§ 153.153 PERMITS.
   (A)   Approved materials and methods of construction or installation/
operation.
      (1)   The provisions of this section of this subchapter are not intended
to prevent the use of any design, material or method of installation or
operation not commercially available or specifically prescribed by this
chapter, provided any such alternate has been approved.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator or his or her designate may approve any
such proposed alternate, provided that the alternate:
         (a)   Provides at least equivalence to the applicable specific
requirements of this chapter; and
         (b)   Is otherwise satisfactory and complies with the intent of this
chapter.
   (B)   Permits and development plan reviews.
      (1)   Whenever a person is required to obtain a building or electrical
permit for outdoor lighting or signage (residential or commercial), a use
permit, subdivision approval or any development plan approval by the town,
including all town projects, or whenever a person requests a rezoning, the
applicant shall, as a part of the lighting permit application, submit
sufficient information to enable the Zoning Administrator to determine whether
the proposed lighting will comply with this chapter.
      (2)   All applications shall include the following:
         (a)   A site plan indicating the proposed location of all outdoor
lighting fixtures;
         (b)   A description of each illuminating device, fixture, lamp,
support and shield. This description may include but is not limited to
manufacturer's catalog cuts and drawings (including sections where required),
lamp types and lumen outputs; and
         (c)   Such other information as the Zoning Administrator may determine
is necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter.
      (3)   If the Zoning Administrator determines that the proposed lighting
does not comply with this chapter, the permit shall not be issued or the plan
approved.
   (C)   Temporary permits.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator may grant a permit for temporary lighting
if he or she finds all of the following:
         (a)   The purpose for which the lighting is proposed is not intended
to extend beyond 30 days;
         (b)   The proposed lighting is designed in such a manner as to
minimize light pollution as much as is feasible;
         (c)   The proposed lighting will comply with the general intent of
this chapter; and
         (d)   The permit will be in the public interest.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall rule on the application within five
business days from the date of submission of the request and notify the
applicant in writing of his or her decision. The Zoning Administrator may grant
one renewal of the permit for an additional 30 days if he or she finds that,
because of an unanticipated change in circumstances, a renewal would be in the
public interest. The Zoning Administrator is not authorized to grant more than
one temporary permit and one renewal for the same property within one calendar
year.
   (D)   Variances. Any person desiring to install an outdoor lighting fixture
in violation of this chapter may apply to the Board of Adjustment for a
variance from the regulation in question. Such variances shall be allowed only
as provided by §
153.021. Commercial light installations that are removed or relocated during a
building remodel will be required to meet the then current ordinance
requirements.
(Ord. § 603(D), passed 9-4-2008)
WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
§ 153.165 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish rules and regulations
for the siting of wireless communications facilities.
   (B)   The goals of this subchapter are to provide for the development of
wireless communication services by:
      (1)   Encouraging the consideration of the goals and provisions of the
Wireless Communications Plan;
      (2)   Encouraging configurations which minimize additional visual impact
through careful and innovative siting, design, landscape and camouflage
techniques;
      (3)   Providing wireless communication services to the community in a
broad, quick, effective and efficient manner;
      (4)   Encouraging the joint use (collocation) of facilities;
      (5)   Considering the public health, safety and welfare;
      (6)   Encouraging the use of existing vertical components;
      (7)   Considering historical and environmentally sensitive areas; and
      (8)   Considering impact on adjacent properties.
(Ord. § 605(A), passed 9-4-2008)
§ 153.166 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERNATIVE TOWER STRUCTURE. Vertical components not generally designed for
use as antenna support structures, including but not limited to structures such
as church steeples, ballpark light poles and water towers.
   ANTENNA. Any exterior device for transmitting and receiving wireless
communication mounted on a tower, alternative tower structure, building or
structure and used for transmitting and receiving wireless communication for a
fee to more than one customer at one time.
   ANTENNA, ATTACHED. An antenna mounted on the exterior of an existing
building, silo, smokestack, water tower, utility or power pole, existing
wireless communication tower, or an alternative support structure.
   ANTENNA, CONCEALED (STEALTH). An antenna with a support structure that
screens or camouflages the presence of antennas and/or towers from public view,
in a manner appropriate to the site's context and surrounding environment.
Examples of concealed antennas include but are not limited to man-made trees,
clock towers, flagpoles that do not exceed ten feet above the maximum building
height, light structures, steeples, watertanks, and architectural façade and
parapet features.
   CERTIFICATION. A written statement of the fact to be certified made under
oath by the applicant or licensed professional working for the applicant and
notarized.
   COLLOCATION. Use by two or more wireless communication providers located on
the same tower or alternative tower structure.
   COMMERCIAL COVERAGE.  A single FCC licensee's network of wireless
communications facilities providing a level of service to all areas of the
community which, when fully developed, will permit viable commercial operation.
   FAA. The Federal Aviation Administration.
   FACILITY, EXISTING. A wireless communication facility in active use and for
which a building permit has been properly issued and has not expired before the
effective date of this subchapter.
   FACILITY, NEW. A wireless communications facility proposed to be located
where a facility does not currently exist.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   HEIGHT. The distance from the finished grade at the antenna tower base to
the highest point of the tower. Overall tower height includes the base pad,
mounting structures and panel antennas, but excludes lightning rods and whip
antennas.
   TOWER, LATTICE. A self-support structure, erected on the ground, which
consists of cross-bracing of structural steel to support antennas and related
equipment.
   TOWER, MONOPOLE. A self-support structure, with a single shaft of wood,
steel or concrete, and a platform for antenna arrayed at the top known as a
"top hat."
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATION. Any technology for transmitting communication
through the air.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY. Any combination of one or more antennas,
towers and/or structures or equipment used for the transmission of wireless
communication.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATION PROVIDER.  Any FCC licensed service provider for the
town, and any supplier of wireless communication facilities for those
providers.
   USE, PERMANENT.  The active daily use of antennas for the commercial
transmission and receipt of wireless communication intended at the time of its
installation and approved to be actively used for a permanent basis.
   USE, TEMPORARY. The active daily use of antennas for the commercial
transmission and receipt of wireless communication intended at the time of its
installation and approved to be actively used for a specific period of time.
   USER, SINGLE. A single dwelling or a single business.
(Ord. § 605(B), passed 9-4-2008)
§ 153.167 APPLICABILITY.
   All wireless communications facilities shall be subject to this subchapter
except those used solely for transmission and receipt by a single user and not
otherwise restricted within that zoning district, including but not limited to
amateur radio and devices necessary for the use of a subscription to a
commercial wireless provider service such as wireless internet and satellite
TV.
(Ord. § 605(C), passed 9-4-2008)
§ 153.168 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   The following are applicable to all wireless communication requests:
   (A)   Principal or accessory use. Antennas and towers may be considered
either principal or accessory uses to the principal use of the property.
   (B)   Lot size. For purposes of determining whether the installation of a
tower or antenna complies with district development regulations, even though
the antennas or towers may be located on a separately leased portion of the
lot, the density district requirements of the entire overall lot shall control
requirements, including but not limited to setbacks, lot-coverage percentages,
and other such requirements.
   (C)   Characteristics.
      (1)   Improvements comprising a wireless communication facility including
tower structure, antennas and related electrical and mechanical equipment,
shall, to the extent possible, use materials, colors, textures, screening and
landscaping blending them into the natural and surrounding setting, unless
subject to any applicable standards of the FAA.
      (2)   Towers shall not be artificially lighted, unless required by the
FAA or other applicable authority. If lighting is required, the application
shall contain a list of optional light devices and a statement of the reason
for selection of the light device specified over each of the options.
      (3)   All wireless communication facilities shall be maintained in
compliance with applicable state or local building codes under which they were
constructed and any regulations of the FAA, the FCC, and any other federal
government with the authority to regulate them or their components. If these
federal standards and regulations are changed, then the owners of the wireless
communication facilities governed by this section, which are applicable to
these new federal standards, shall bring the towers and antennas into
compliance with the revised standards and regulations within three months of
the effective date of the standards and unless a different compliance schedule
is mandated by controlling law. Wireless communications facilities that are not
in compliance shall be removed at the owner's expense if not brought into
compliance within 30 days after written demand by the town.
      (4)   Setback and separation distances shall be calculated and applied
irrespective of municipal and county jurisdictional boundaries.
      (5)   Wireless communications facilities shall be regulated and permitted
pursuant to this section and shall not be regulated or permitted as essential
services, public utilities or private utilities.
      (6)   No signs shall be allowed at a facility with the exception of a
single one-square-foot sign for each carrier, to provide emergency contact
numbers.
      (7)   Except as provided in this section all building and use processes
and requirements, including height restrictions, within the applicable zoning
district shall apply to wireless communication facilities.
      (8)   Equipment shall not generate noise levels that exceed 50 dBa sound
pressure level (SPL) on directly adjacent properties. This maximum sound level
does not apply to generators used in emergency situations when the regular
power supply is temporarily interrupted and noise made during the regular
maintenance and upkeep of the facility and site. All aboveground equipment
shall be enclosed by concrete masonry unit walls if located within 1,000 feet
of existing residences.
(Ord. § 605(D), passed 9-4-2008)
§ 153.169 PERMITTED USES.
   Wireless communications facilities located on property owned, leased or
controlled by the town pursuant to agreement of or approved by the town shall
be a permitted use in all zoning districts with zoning clearance. Prior to
entering into a lease agreement with the town, the potential lessee shall
conduct an informational meeting for owners of property within 1,000 feet of
the proposed facility and the nearest known community/homeowners' association
(s).
(Ord. § 605(E), passed 9-4-2008)
§ 153.170 PROVIDER'S COMMUNICATION PLAN.
   (A)   Each wireless communication provider shall provide a plan of its
facilities to the town prior to any application for the installation of a
wireless communication facility. The plan shall cover the entire town extending
one mile beyond the town border. The plan shall include the following:
      (1)   All of the provider's existing wireless communication facilities,
by size, type and their coverage areas;
      (2)   All presently anticipated future service areas, anticipated
deployment date and types of wireless communication facilities and heights
desired for each of the service areas;
      (3)   The various types of wireless communication facilities used by the
provider to furnish service and when they are used. This includes drawings
providing the sizes and shapes of the antennas and equipment as well as written
materials describing their application;
      (4)   The provider's policy direction for the mitigation and/or reduction
of existing and proposed towers to avoid the proliferation of such facilities;
      (5)   The provider's policy direction on the mitigation and/or reduction
of the negative visual impact created by existing towers, including any
proposals to conceal or disguise the facilities designed to be architecturally
and/or environmentally compatible with their surroundings;
      (6)   The provider's policy direction on collocation of antennas on their
own facilities, on facilities from other providers, or on other structures
which provide the verticality required for the antennas; and
      (7)   Designation of an agent of the provider who is authorized to
receive communications and notices pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Information contained in each provider's communication plan shall be
treated as confidential and not disclosed to other providers unless noted by
the provider in the plan.
   (C)   Information noted as nonconfidential information may be shared with
other interested parties seeking to locate wireless communication facilities in
the town, in an effort to promote collocation and co-development of facilities.
(Ord. § 605(F), passed 9-4-2008)
§ 153.171 APPLICATION REVIEW.
   (A)   General. The following provisions shall govern the issuance of permits
for towers or antennas:
      (1)   If the wireless communication facility is not a permitted use, then
an administrative approval or a use permit shall be required for the
construction.
      (2)   Applications for administrative approvals and use permits for a
wireless communication facility shall be subject to the procedures and
requirements for use permits generally, except as modified in this section.
      (3)   Fees for applications under this section are listed in the Town
Zoning Regulations Fee Schedule set forth in Appendix A to this chapter.
      (4)   All use permit or administrative review approvals for new wireless
communication facilities shall be granted for a maximum period of ten years
with staff review after five years. The applicant/structure owner shall be
responsible for initiating an administrative renewal and possible extension of
the approved wireless facility and shall demonstrate that changes in
technology, that are economically feasible, have not eliminated the need for
the facility as approved. Applications for collocation on existing structures
shall be set for a period of time so that the expiration date for the
collocation expires simultaneously with the structure. If an extension is
denied by the Zoning Administrator, the applicant may appeal the decision to
the Planning and Zoning Commission and Town Council, by applying for a use
permit.
      (5)   In granting approval of an application, the town may impose
conditions to the extent that such conditions carry out the purposes of this
section.
      (6)   Any information of an engineering nature that the applicant submits
shall be certified by an Arizona licensed professional engineer.
      (7)   No new wireless communication facilities within 1,000 feet of any
residences, including single and multiple-family residences and residential
facilities, such as group homes and nursing homes, with the exception of
attached antenna and concealed antenna sites that do not exceed ten feet above
the maximum building height of the applicable density district, which will be
reviewed on a case-by-case basis. For those wireless communication facility
sites exceeding ten feet above the maximum building height for their density
district, there shall be a ten-foot setback for every one foot in tower height
from existing residences with a minimum setback of 1,000 feet required.
      (8)   No new wireless communication facilities shall be installed within
unique or scenic areas/sites identified within the community plan area.
      (9)   No new wireless communication facilities shall be installed in any
area that may mar mountain views, or visually sensitive areas, from any
direction unless the facility uses arrays, pole diameters, shapes and colors
that shall blend it with other similar vertical objects and not be intrusive in
its setting or obtrusive to views.
      (10)   The Zoning Administrator is authorized to employ, on behalf of the
town, an independent technical expert to review any technical materials
submitted, including but not limited to those required under this section, and
in those cases where a technical demonstration of unavoidable need or
unavailability of alternatives is required. The applicant shall pay all the
costs of the review.
      (11)   Prior to applying for a new facility, the applicant shall meet
with community groups and interested individuals who reside or own property
within 1,000 feet of the proposed site to explain the proposed project. The
purpose of these meetings is to inform and educate the community on wireless
communications, and the restrictions placed on the town by the Federal
Telecommunications Act of 1996, as well as to solicit suggestions from these
groups about the applicant's proposal and impact mitigation measures. Applicant
shall make a concerted effort to incorporate the community suggestions for
impact mitigation generated by the meetings and describe the efforts in the
application. Applicant shall be prepared to discuss information, including but
not limited to technical aspects and visual aspects, including alternative
sites and designs. Applicant shall provide detailed meeting minutes, copy of
all materials delivered or received, and documentation of who attended the
meetings from the community organization.
   (B)   Performance criteria.
      (1)   (a)   The order of preferences for wireless communication
facilities is, from most preferred to least preferred:
            1.   Collocation on an existing facility or electrical utility
pole;
            2.   Attached antennas on an existing verticality;
            3.   New sites located on public lands at least 5,000 feet from
private land;
            4.   New concealed or attached antenna sites located on/at public
or quasi-public facilities;
            5.   Concealed sites;
            6.   New towers/facilities under 99 feet;
            7.   New towers/facilities 100 feet to 199 feet; and
            8.   New towers/facilities 200 feet and over.
         (b)   New facilities shall use the most preferred facility type where
technically feasible, even if it results in an increase in the number of
facilities, or a higher cost. A lesser preferred facility type may be permitted
only if the applicant presents substantial evidence to show that it will have a
lesser visual impact than the use of more preferred facilities.
      (2)   The following characteristics are deemed consistent with the
purposes of this section and will be afforded favorable weight in considering
the application:
         (a)   Sites located on public lands;
         (b)   Existing structures will be preferred over new structures;
         (c)   New structures which appear to be structures commonly found
within that zoning district are preferred over apparent wireless structures;
         (d)   Wireless communication facilities which cannot be readily
observed from adjacent streets;
         (e)   Structure heights which do not exceed the height limitations for
that zoning district. When heights may exceed an adjacent jurisdiction's height
restrictions, that jurisdiction(s) will be notified of the application;
         (f)   Collocation of all licensed carriers for the town on a single
wireless communication facility in remote locations will have significant
favorable weight in evaluating the application;
         (g)   Network development plans which achieve the fewest number of
wireless communication facilities of all providers reasonably necessary for
commercial coverage;
         (h)   Location in the least restrictive zoning district, starting with
industrial; and
         (i)   Suitability of the location for collocation of governmental
public service wireless communication facilities.
   (C)   Review procedures.
      (1)   (a)   Administrative review. Applications for collocation of
antennas on and equipment at an existing, permitted wireless communications
facility, shall be subject to review and approval by the Zoning Administrator.
Applications to place antennas on top of, or attached to, an existing or
replaced utility/power pole which does not extend the height of the existing
pole by more than ten feet shall also be evaluated by the administrative review
process. A decision shall be rendered to approve or deny within 14 days of
submittal of a complete application. If an administrative review application is
denied by the Zoning Administrator, the applicant may then apply for a use
permit, and appeal the decision before the Planning and Zoning Commission and
Town Council, if desired.
         (b)   Application requirements. The following shall be submitted with
each administrative review application:
            1.   Completed hearing application submittal form, letter of
authorization, and permission to enter property letter as contained in the
application procedures information packet;
            2.   An updated Provider's Communication Plan, including any
proposed changes in the service areas, antennas, towers and policy direction;
            3.   The zoning classification of the site;
            4.   Plans showing elevation drawings of the exterior of each
element of the proposed wireless communication facility, method of fencing,
coloration and landscaping;
            5.   Certification that the wireless communication facility, as
represented in the application, will comply with all FAA, FCC and other
applicable regulations;
            6.   Copies of all wireless telecommunication licenses for all
providers who will use the facility at the time of filing the application; and
            7.   Copy of signed, redacted lease agreement with landowner.
      (2)   (a)   Administrative review with comment period. Applications for
new wireless communication facilities that do not exceed ten feet above the
maximum height allowed in that density district, or sites on public lands
located at least 5,000 feet from the nearest privately owned land, would be
subject to administrative review with a 21-day public comment period.
Surrounding property owners and community organizations shall receive notice of
the application. If an administrative review with comment period application is
denied by the Zoning Administrator, the applicant may then apply for a use
permit, and appeal the decision before the Planning and Zoning Commission and
Town Council, if desired.
         (b)   Application requirements. The following is to be submitted with
each administrative review with comment period application:
            1.   All material associated with the submittal of an
administrative review application as stated above, in addition to the
following;
            2.   A mailing list of all property owners within 1,000 feet of the
facility site, and pre-addressed envelopes affixed with first class postage to
each property owner;
            3.   A map showing the adjacent roadways, and proposed means of
legal access;
            4.   RF propagation maps showing the coverage areas of the proposed
site and how it interacts with the coverage areas of connecting sites;
            5.   The setback distance between the proposed wireless
communication facility, the nearest residential unit and/or the nearest
residential zoned, privately owned properties;
            6.   Certification of whether the applicant is applying for
collocation treatment, and how many carriers could be accommodated on the
facility with adequate signal coverage;
            7.   Certification that no town or other municipal owned site or
existing wireless facility reasonably meets the needs of the applicant, listing
all such sites within five miles of the proposed site and the reason each is
not physically adequate for reasonable commercial coverage, or not economically
feasible for location;
            8.   A visual analysis, which may include photo simulations, field
mock-ups or other techniques which identify the potential visual impacts of the
proposed facility. Photo simulations shall be provided from the three closest
residences within one-half mile of the proposed site and from the closest
collector or arterial street. The Zoning Administrator may, at his or her
discretion, request additional photos from specific vantage points; and
            9.   Attendees list, minutes and information obtained from required
community meeting.
      (3)   (a)   Use permit. Any new wireless communication facility that
exceeds ten feet above the maximum height allowed in the density district, or
does not meet all of the criteria to be allowed in the administrative review
processes, shall require a use permit.
         (b)   Application requirements. The following is to be submitted with
each use permit application:
            1.   All material associated with the submittal of an
administrative review with comment period application as stated above, in
addition to the following;
            2.   A completed use permit application packet;
            3.   A mailing list of all property owners within the distance
required from the facility site, as indicated in the table below, and pre-
addressed envelopes affixed with first class postage to each property owner;
 
Notification Required by Tower Height
99 feet and under  1,000 feet radius
100 to 199 feet    2,500 feet radius
200 feet and above 5,000 feet radius
 
            4.   RF frequency propagation maps showing the coverage areas of
the proposed site and how it interacts with the coverage areas of connecting
sites. If the applicant is seeking collocation of multiple carriers, the RF
propagation coverage maps should also include on a separate map, the coverage
areas obtained from the lowest collocation point on the tower;
            5.   Certification that policing, fire departments, public safety,
water and local governments having jurisdiction within five miles of the site
have been notified of the application;
            6.   The applicant shall submit a visual analysis, which may
include photo simulations, field mock-ups, or other techniques which identify
the potential visual impacts of the proposed facility. Photo simulations shall
be provided from the five closest residences within two miles of the proposed
site and from the closest collector or arterial street. The Development
Services Director or Zoning Administrator or his/her designee may at his or her
discretion, request additional photos from specific vantage points; 
            7.   A written narrative/explanation of why it is necessary that
the proposed wireless communications facility be located in the proposed
location, and why it will exceed the maximum height allowance for the zoning
district in which it is proposed. If the explanation is based on coverage maps,
structural calculations, lease amounts, or any other information pertinent to
the need for the structure or additional height, this information shall be
included as appendices to the narrative.
      (4)   Standards. In addition to any standards for consideration of use
permit applications, the following shall be considered in determining whether
to issue a use permit or administrative approval: height proposed, proximity to
other uses, historic sites, landmarks, vehicle traffic routes, medical
facilities, air routes, topographical features, utilities, access, suitability
of alternative sites and visual impact.
(Ord. § 605(G), passed 9-4-2008)
§ 153.172 COLLOCATION.
   The policy of this section is to encourage collocation.
   (A)   Preference. An applicant who certifies in writing that the tower
constructed will be suitable for collocating multiple providers of varying
wireless technologies and, as a condition of zoning, executes a written
agreement (collocation agreement) with the town on a form approved by the Town
Attorney, consenting to application of the terms of this provision shall,
unless waived by the applicant, receive preferential treatment for a final
approval or rejection of its application after a complete and correct
application, fee and all required documentation and information is filed.
   (B)   In addition to equipment proposed for the applicant's use, proposed
antenna facilities, including concealed antennas, shall be designed to
accommodate collocation for at least one additional wireless communications
provider for every 30-foot segment of facility height, or portion thereof, over
30 feet. The Town Council may reduce the required shared capacity, if a
facility necessary to provide for such collocation adversely alters the area's
visual character.
   (C)   Collocation agreement. The collocation agreement shall provide for at
least the following:
      (1)   The applicant shall accept for collocation any FCC licensed
wireless communication provider (additional user) using any compatible
technology on commercially reasonable terms, considering all of the factors a
reasonable tower leasing company would deem relevant in entering into such an
agreement;
      (2)   Any additional user seeking collocation shall submit specifications
for its equipment and use (request) to the applicant and applicant shall,
within 30 days thereafter, respond to the party in writing (response)
furnishing all technical requirements that must be resolved before collocation;
      (3)   The applicant and the additional user shall, thereafter in good
faith, attempt to resolve any technical or business terms. If, after 30 days
from the response, the additional user believes the applicant has not
negotiated in good faith, the additional user may submit, in writing, a request
for arbitration to applicant and the American Arbitration Association, which
shall designate a person knowledgeable in collocation of wireless communication
carriers to act as arbitrator and decide all issues between the parties. This
arbitration shall be held within 30 days of the request for arbitration. Upon
the written agreement of both parties, a different procedure for binding
dispute resolution may be used. The result of the arbitration or other
resolution method agreed to by the parties shall be binding and non-appealable;
      (4)   If the arbitrator certifies in writing to the town that the
applicant has failed to comply with the decision of the arbitrator within 15
days of its issuance by the arbitrator, the use permit or administrative
approval for the wireless communication facility in question shall be
terminated and the wireless communications facility shall be removed within 30
days of the date of the arbitrator's certification, failing which, the town
shall have all of the remedies available to it for elimination of a use in
violation of the zoning regulations;
      (5)   The additional party, upon submitting the request, shall become a
third-party beneficiary to the collocation agreement;
      (6)   The town shall not be a party to any contract between the applicant
and the additional party and shall not be a required party and shall not be
made a party to any dispute or arbitration, and the applicant shall indemnify,
defend and hold the town harmless from any cost, including reasonable attorney
fees, associated with such matters; and
      (7)   A lease or other agreement containing the business terms proposed
by the applicant for collocation shall be attached as an exhibit to the
collocation agreement.
(Ord. § 605(H), passed 9-4-2008)
§ 153.173 SETBACKS.
   The following setback requirements shall apply to all towers; provided,
however, standard setback requirements may be decreased if the goals of this
subchapter would be better served thereby:
   (A)   Towers must be set back from any lot line a distance equal to at least
110% of the height of the tower unless a greater setback is required for the
particular zoning district; i.e., the reclining length of any tower must be
located on the lot so that, in the case of collapse, the tower would be
contained within the bounds thereof.
   (B)   Guys and accessory structures must satisfy the minimum zoning district
setback requirements.
   (C)   If shown by proof of collapse safety with a certified engineer's
letter stating that, in case of collapse, the tower would be contained on site,
the Zoning Administrator could waive the one-to-one setback as required above.
   (D)   Facilities that are located on existing or replaced street lights,
traffic signal poles or electrical utility poles are exempt from any setback
requirements.
(Ord. § 605(I), passed 9-4-2008)
§ 153.174 REMOVAL.
   (A)   Within 30 days of Town Council approval, financial assurances shall be
posted by the applicant for the occurrence or possible need for removal of the
tower and returning the natural state of the site, prior to submittal and
approval of building permits/zoning clearances.
   (B)   Towers and antennas shall be removed, at the owner's expense, within
180 days if not used for a permanent use within that time unless this period is
extended pursuant to this section. If the tower or antenna is not timely
removed, the town may give notice that it will contract for removal within 30
days following written notice to the owner. Thereafter, the town may cause
removal at the cost of the owner.
   (C)   An owner wishing to extend the time for removal or reactivation shall
submit an application stating the reason for such extension. The Development
Services Director or Zoning Administrator or his/her designee or his or her
designate may extend the time for removal or reactivation up to 60 additional
days upon a showing of good cause.
   (D)   Upon removal of the wireless telecommunications facility, the site
shall be returned to its natural state and topography and vegetated consistent
with the natural surroundings.
(Ord. § 605(J), passed 9-4-2008)
§ 153.175 MODIFICATION.
   No existing wireless telecommunications facility may be changed or modified
except as follows:
   (A)   (1)   The change or modification is required by a change in user or
technology; or
      (2)   The change is required for the collocation of additional carriers
on the existing structure.
   (B)   The change does not increase the height of the tallest component above
the height approved in the use permit, administrative approval, or in the case
of an pre-existing facility, its then current height; and
   (C)   At the conclusion of the change or modification, the facility complies
with all applicable codes, statutes, ordinances and requirements placed upon
the granting of the application; and
   (D)   An explanation is submitted to the Development Services Director or
Zoning Administrator or his/her designee stating why the modification is
necessary, and an updated Provider's Communication Plan, including any proposed
changes in the service areas, antennas, towers and policy direction is
provided.
(Ord. § 605(K), passed 9-4-2008)
SEX ORIENTED BUSINESSES
§ 153.190 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose and intent of this subchapter to regulate sex oriented
businesses to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the
citizens of the town and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to
prevent any deleterious location and concentration of sex oriented businesses
within the town, thereby reducing or eliminating the adverse secondary effects
from such sex oriented businesses. The provisions of this subchapter have
neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the
content of any communicative materials, including sex oriented materials.
Similarly, it is not the intent nor effect of this subchapter to restrict or
deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of sex oriented entertainment to
their intended market. Neither is it the intent nor effect of this subchapter
to condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene material.
(Ord. § 606(A), passed 9-4-2008)
§ 153.191 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any such business as a new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sex
oriented business, to any of the sex oriented businesses defined in this
section;
      (3)   The addition of any of the sex oriented businesses defined in this
section to any other existing sex oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any such sex oriented business.
   NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY.
      (1)   The appearance of human anus, genitals or female breast; or
      (2)   A state of dress which fails to opaquely cover a human anus,
genitals or areola of the female breast.
   PATRON. A person invited or permitted to enter and remain upon the premises
of a sex oriented business as defined in this section, whether or not for any
form of consideration.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association
or other legal entity.
   PUBLIC BUILDING. Any building owned, leased or held by the United States,
the state, the county, the town, any special district, school district, or any
other agency or political subdivision of the state or the United States, which
building is used for governmental purposes.
   PUBLIC PARK.  Public land which has been designated for park or recreational
activities, including but not limited to a park, playground, nature trails,
swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball or tennis court,
pedestrian/bicycle paths, open space, wilderness areas, or similar public land
within the town which is under the control, operation or management of the
town.
   RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION. Any church, synagogue, mosque, temple, building or
property that is used primarily for religious worship and related religious
activities.
   RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT or USE.  A single family, duplex, townhouse,
multiple family, mobile home park, residential subdivision or campground as
defined in the Town Planning and Zoning Ordinance.
   SCHOOL. Any public or private educational facility, including but not
limited to charter schools, child daycare facilities, nursery schools,
preschools, kindergartens, elementary schools, primary schools, intermediate
schools, junior high schools, middle schools, high schools, vocational schools,
secondary schools, continuation schools, special education schools, junior
colleges and universities. SCHOOL includes the school grounds, but does not
include the facilities used primarily for another purpose and only incidentally
as a SCHOOL.
   SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region and areola of the female breast, as well as portions of
the body that are covered by supporting straps or devices.
   SEX ORIENTED BUSINESSES. Those businesses defined as follows:
      (1)   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited
and in which coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically, electrically or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or other
image producing devices are maintained to show images involving specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas as defined in this section, to
persons in booths or viewing rooms.
      (2)   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE.  
         (a)   A commercial establishment that offers for sale or rent, for any
form of consideration, any of the following as one of its principal business
purposes:
            1.   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter,
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other visual
representations which are characterized by the depiction or description of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas as defined in this
section; or
            2.   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for
use in connection with specified sexual activities, as defined in this section.
         (b)   An establishment may have other principal business purposes that
do not involve the offering for sale, rental or viewing of materials depicting
or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas as
defined in this section, and still be categorized as ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT
NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. These other business purposes will not
serve to exempt the establishment from being categorized as an ADULT BOOKSTORE,
ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE so long as its principal business
purpose is offering for sale or rental for some form of consideration, the
specified materials which are characterized by the depiction or description of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities as defined in this
section.
      (3)   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant, bottle club, or
similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are
served, which predominately features:
         (a)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or are semi-nude;
         (b)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities as defined in this
section; or
         (c)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas as
defined in this section.
      (4)   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT. An establishment that features either:
         (a)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or are semi-nude; or
         (b)   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities as defined in this
section.
      (5)   ADULT MOTEL. A motel, hotel or similar commercial establishment
which:
         (a)   Offers public accommodations for any form of consideration,
which provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films,
motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions
which are characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas as defined in this section, and which
advertises the availability of this sex oriented type of material by means of a
sign visible from the public right-of-way, or by means of any off-premises
advertising, including but not limited to newspapers, magazines, pamphlets or
leaflets, radio or television;
         (b)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time less than
ten hours; or
         (c)   Allows a tenant or occupant to sub-rent the sleeping room for a
time period of less than ten hours.
      (6)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas as defined in this
section, are predominantly shown for any form of consideration.
      (7)   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar
commercial establishment which, for any form of consideration, predominantly
features persons who appear in a state of nudity or are semi-nude who engage in
live performances which are characterized by exposure of specified anatomical
areas or by specified sexual activities as defined in this section.
      (8)   NUDE MODEL STUDIO.  Any place where a person, who appears in a
state of nudity or who displays specified anatomical areas as defined in this
section, is observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or
similarly depicted by other persons who pay money or any other form of
consideration. It shall be considered an exemption from this definition if a
person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
         (a)   By a proprietary school, licensed by the state; a college,
community college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
         (b)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, community
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
         (c)   In a structure:
            1.   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure
and no other advertising that indicates a nude or semi-nude person is available
for viewing;
            2.   Where, in order to participate in a class, a student must
enroll at least three days in advance of the class; and
            3.   Where no more than one nude or semi-nude model is on the
premises at any one time.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT. A business or commercial establishment that,
as one of its primary business purposes, offers for any form of consideration a
place where two or more persons may congregate, associate or consort for the
purpose of specified sexual activities as defined in this section when one or
more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude. The definition of sex
oriented businesses shall not include an establishment where a medical
practitioner, psychologist, psychiatrist or similar professional person
licensed by the state engages in medically approved and recognized sexual
therapy.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. As used in this section, the male genitals in a
state of sexual arousal or the vulva or more intimate parts of the female
genitals, and may include any of the following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts below a point immediately above the
areola; or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.  Any of the following:
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, anus or female breasts;
      (3)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including acts
of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy;
      (4)   Excretory functions as part of, or in connection with, any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1) through (3) of this definition.
   VIEWING ROOM.  The room, booth or area where a patron of a sex oriented
business would ordinarily be positioned while viewing a film, video cassette or
other video reproduction, or adult live entertainment as defined in this
section.
(Ord. § 606(B), passed 9-4-2008)
§ 153.192 ESTABLISHMENT AND LOCATION.
   The establishment of a sex oriented business shall be permitted only in C3
(Commercial and Minor Industrial), PM (Performance Industrial), M1 (Industrial;
General Limited), and M2 (Industrial; Heavy) Zoning Districts and shall be
subject to the following spacing restriction:
   (A)   No person shall cause or permit the establishment of any sex oriented
business, as defined in this subchapter, within 1,000 feet of another sex
oriented business.
   (B)   No person shall cause or permit the establishment of any sex oriented
business, as defined in this subchapter, within 500 feet of any religious
institution, school, YMCA, YWCA, Boys Club, Girls Club or similar existing
youth organization, public park, public building or properties zoned for
residential use or used for residential purposes.
(Ord. § 606(C), passed 9-4-2008)
§ 153.193 MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCE.
   For the purpose of measuring separation distances in this subchapter:
   (A)   The distance between any two sex oriented businesses shall be measured
in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from
the closest exterior structural wall of each business.
   (B)   The distance between any sex oriented business and any religious
institution, school, YMCA, YWCA, Boys Club, Girls Club or similar existing
youth organization, public park, public building, or any properties zoned for
residential use, or used for residential purposes, shall be measured in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the
nearest portion of the building or structure used as part of the premises where
the sex oriented business is conducted, to the nearest property line of the
premises of a religious institution, school, YMCA, YWCA, Boys Club, Girls Club
or similar existing youth organization, public park, public building, or any
properties zoned for residential use or used for residential purposes.
(Ord. § 606(D), passed 9-4-2008)
§ 153.194 REGULATIONS GOVERNING EXISTING SEX ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Any sex oriented business lawfully operating on June 2, 1999 that is
in violation of this subchapter shall be deemed a nonconforming use.
Nonconforming uses shall be governed by §
153.016. If two or more sex oriented businesses are within 1,000 feet of one
another and otherwise in a permissible location, the sex oriented business
which was first established and continually operating at the particular
location is the conforming use, and the later established business is
nonconforming.
   (B)   A sex oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use is not
rendered a nonconforming use by the subsequent location of a religious
institution, school, YMCA, YWCA, Boys Club, Girls Club or similar existing
youth organization, public park, public building, residential zoning district,
or residential use within 500 feet of the sex oriented business.
(Ord. § 606(E), passed 9-4-2008)
§ 153.195 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS,
VIDEOS OR ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT IN VIEWING ROOMS.
   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sex oriented business,
other than an adult motel/hotel, which exhibits on the premises in a viewing
room of less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video cassette or
other video reproduction, or adult live entertainment which depicts specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas as defined in this subchapter,
shall comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   Upon application for a building permit or zoning clearance, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of all overhead lighting fixtures and
designating any portion of the premises in which patrons will not be permitted.
A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or architect's
blueprint shall not be required. However, each diagram should be oriented to
the north or to some designated street and should be drawn to a designated
scale with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimension
of all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus
six inches.
      (1)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access and an illumination of not less than five foot-candles as measured at
the floor level.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the owners and/or operator, and it shall
also be the duty of any agents and employees present on the premises, to ensure
that the illumination described above is maintained at all times that any
patron is present on the premises.
      (3)   All off-street parking areas and premises entries of the sex
oriented business shall be in compliance with §§
153.150 through
153.153.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the owner and/or operator to ensure that the
viewing room(s), as defined in this subchapter, remain(s) unobstructed by any
doors, curtains, partitions, walls, merchandise, display racks or other
materials and, at all times, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to
any area of the premises which has been designated as an area in which patrons
will not be permitted.
   (C)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any one
time.
   (D)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
(Ord. § 606(F), passed 9-4-2008)
§ 153.196 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO BUSINESSES WITHOUT VIEWING ROOMS.
   A zoning clearance shall be required to ensure that adult bookstores, adult
novelty stores, adult video stores, adult motels, adult motion picture
theaters, adult theaters, nude model studios and sexual encounter
establishments without viewing rooms that have been defined as sex oriented
businesses, as defined in this subchapter, are in compliance with the use
district, location and separation distance requirements.
(Ord. § 606(G), passed 9-4-2008)
§ 153.197 ADVERTISING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   As established in §§
153.125 through
153.138: "No person shall exhibit, post or display a sign or wall, any
statement, symbol or picture of an obscene nature."
   (B)   No depiction of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas shall be visible from the exterior of the premises.
(Ord. § 606(H), passed 9-4-2008)
§ 153.198 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful to operate, permit or cause to be operated a sex
oriented business, as defined in this subchapter, excluding an adult motel,
between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on Monday through Saturday, or
between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. noon on Sunday.
(Ord. § 606(I), passed 9-4-2008) Penalty, see §
153.999
MEDICAL MARIJUANA
§ 153.205 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose and intent of this subchapter (as enabled by A.R.S. Title
36, Chapter 28, Arizona Medical Marijuana Act) to regulate the sale and
cultivation of medical marijuana to promote the health, safety, morals and
general welfare of the citizens of the town and to establish reasonable and
uniform regulations to prevent any deleterious location and concentration of
medical marijuana related businesses within the town, thereby reducing or
eliminating adverse and secondary effects from such businesses. It is neither
the intent nor effect of this subchapter to restrict or deny access to
distributors and cultivators or medical marijuana to their intended market.
Neither is it the intent nor the effect of this subchapter to condone or
legitimize the production or distribution of medical marijuana.
(Ord. 11-83, passed 4-19-2011)
§ 153.206 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EDIBLE FOOD PRODUCT. A substance, beverage, or ingredient used or intended
for use or for sale in whole or in part for human consumption.
   INFUSION or INFUSE. The act or process of mixing, blending, combining, or
otherwise admixing medical marijuana or the active ingredients of medical
marijuana into an edible food product.
   INFUSION FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. A food processing or other food establishment
of any type or size, not operated by a medical marijuana dispensary and not
located at a medical marijuana facility or a medical marijuana cultivation
site, but which is permitted under Arizona state law to contract with and does
provide to a medical marijuana dispensary edible food products infused with
medical marijuana.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA. All parts of any plant of the genus cannabis whether
growing or not, and the seeds of such plant, used to treat or alleviate a
debilitating medical condition or the symptoms associated with the debilitating
medical condition of a person who is registered with and identified by the
Arizona State Department of Health Services as a registered qualifying patient.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA CULTIVATION SITE. The physical location in which medical
marijuana is grown, cultivated, packaged or stored, or from which medical
marijuana is delivered, transferred, transported, or supplied to another
medical marijuana facility.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY. A not-for-profit entity registered with and
approved to operate by the Arizona State Department of Health Services that
acquires, possesses, cultivates, manufactures, delivers, transfers, transports,
supplies, sells, or dispenses medical marijuana or related supplies and
educational materials to cardholders, as that term is defined in A.R.S. § 36-
2801.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA FACILITY. The physical location from which medical
marijuana is dispensed, cultivated, stored and/or infused.
   RELATED SUPPLIES. Any equipment, product, or material of any kind that is
primarily  intended or designed for the purpose of assisting a person who is
registered with and identified by the Arizona State Department of Health
Services as a registered, qualifying patient in smoking or otherwise consuming
medical marijuana.
(Ord. 11-83, passed 4-19-2011)
§ 153.207 ESTABLISHMENT AND LOCATION.
   The establishment of any medical marijuana dispensary, infusion food
establishment or cultivation business shall be permitted only in C-3
(Commercial and Minor Industrial), M1, (Industrial; General Limited), and M2
(Industrial; Heavy) Zoning Districts and shall be subject to the Arizona
Administrative Code, Title 9, Health Services, Chapter 17 Department of Health
Services, Medical Marijuana Program and the approval of a use permit as
described in §
153.091 and the following performance standards.
   (A)   The physical location of any medical marijuana facility shall not be
closer than 1,000 feet of a public or private school, bona fide childcare
facility or church existing before the date of application to establish a
medical marijuana facility. The distance shall be measured in a straight line
building to property line without regard to intervening structures or objects.
   (B)   The physical location of any medical marijuana dispensary, infusion
food establishment or cultivation facility shall not be closer than 250 feet of
a residentially zoned property existing before the date of application to
establish a dispensary, cultivation or infusion food facility. The distance
shall be measured in a straight line building to property line without regard
to intervening structures or objects.
   (C)   The distance between any two medical marijuana facilities shall not be
closer than 1,000 feet. The distance shall be measured in a straight line
building to building without regard to intervening structures or objects.
   (D)   The maximum aggregate floor area of a medical marijuana dispensary
shall be no larger than 2,500 square feet.
   (E)   The maximum aggregate floor area of a medical marijuana dispensary
that includes a cultivation site or an infusion food establishment shall be no
larger than 4,000 square feet.
   (F)   The maximum aggregate floor area of a medical marijuana cultivation
facility inclusive of or without an infusion food establishment is 10,000
square feet.
   (G)   The exterior of the building shall be lighted from dusk until dawn in
compliance with “dark sky” regulations except that lighting at all exterior
doors shall measure five foot-candles per square foot on the ground ten feet
away from the building.
   (H)   Maintain an eight-foot tall chain-link fence around the facility and
parking area to remain closed and secured during hours of non-operation.
   (I)   No drive-through service shall be permitted.
   (J)   Shall not provide off-site delivery of medical marijuana except that a
medical marijuana cultivation facility may transport medical marijuana to
medical marijuana dispensaries and between dispensaries and/or infusion food
establishments per Arizona Health Services R9-17-317.
   (K)   Any type of medical marijuana facility shall not emit dust, fumes,
vapors or odors into the environment.
   (L)   Any type of medical marijuana facility shall not have outdoor seating
areas except for the use of employees only when located in a secure area.
   (M)   No signs advertising, or any other advertising matter used in
connection with any medical marijuana facility shall be of an offensive nature
and shall in no way be contrary to town code.
(Ord. 11-83, passed 4-19-2011) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.208 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Unless specified otherwise through the use permit process medical marijuana
dispensaries shall only operate between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
Monday through Friday. Dispensaries may only receive product during daylight
hours. Medical marijuana cultivation facilities may operate round the clock as
needed, however product may only be shipped during daylight hours.
(Ord. 11-83, passed 4-19-2011) Penalty, see §
153.999
RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA
§ 153.209 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is adopted to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the
community. Except as allowed by law for personal, private use, the town
prohibits the retail sale, cultivation, and manufacturing of marijuana or
marijuana products in town. Nothing in this subchapter is intended to promote
or condone the sale, cultivation, manufacture, transport, production,
distribution, possession, or use of marijuana or marijuana products in
violation of any applicable law.
(Ord. 21-157, passed 3-16-2021)
§ 153.210 DEFINITIONS.
   The below words and phrases, wherever used in this subchapter, shall be
construed as defined in this section unless, clearly from the context, a
different meaning is intended. Words used in the present tense include the
future tense, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words
in the singular number include the plural number.
   (A)   CHEMICAL EXTRACTION. The process of removing a particular component of
a mixture from others present, including removing resinous tetrahydrocannabinol
from marijuana.
   (B)   CHEMICAL SYNTHESIS. Production of a new particular molecule by adding
to, subtracting from, or changing the structure of a precursor molecule.
   (C)   CONSUME, CONSUMING, AND CONSUMPTION. The act of ingesting, inhaling or
otherwise introducing marijuana into the human body.
   (D)   CONSUMER. An individual who is at least twenty-one years of age and
who purchases marijuana or marijuana products.
   (E)   CULTIVATE AND CULTIVATION. To propagate, breed, grow, prepare and
package marijuana.
   (F)   DELIVER AND DELIVERY. The transportation, transfer or provision of
marijuana or marijuana products to a consumer at a location other than the
designated retail location of a marijuana establishment.
   (G)   DEPARTMENT. The State of Arizona Department of Health Services or its
successor agency.
   (H)   DUAL LICENSEE. An entity that holds both a nonprofit medical marijuana
dispensary registration and a marijuana establishment license.
   (I)   ENCLOSED AREA. A building, greenhouse, or other structure that has:
      (1)   A complete roof enclosure supported by connecting walls that are
constructed of solid material extending from the ground to the roof;
      (2)   Is secure against unauthorized entry;
      (3)   Has a foundation, slab or equivalent base to which the floor is
securely attached; and
      (4)   Meets performance standards ensuring that cultivation and
processing activities cannot be and are not perceptible from the structure in
terms of not being visible from public view without using binoculars, aircraft
or other optical aids and is equipped with a lock or other security device that
prevents access by minors.
   (J)   EXTRACTION. The process of extracting or separating resin from
marijuana to produce or process any form of marijuana concentrates using water,
lipids, gases, solvents, or other chemicals or chemical processes.
   (K)   MANUFACTURE AND MANUFACTURING. To compound, blend, extract, infuse or
otherwise make or prepare a marijuana product.
   (L)   MARIJUANA.
      (1)   Means all parts of the plant of the genus cannabis, whether growing
or not, as well as the seeds from the plant, the resin extracted from any part
of the plant, and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or
preparation of the plant or its seeds or resin.
      (2)   Includes cannabis as defined in A.R.S. § 13-3401.
      (3)   Does not include industrial hemp, the fiber produced from the
stalks of the plant of the genus cannabis, oil or cake made from the seeds of
the plant, sterilized seeds of the plant that are incapable of germination, or
the weight of any other ingredient combined with marijuana to prepare topical
or oral administrations, food, drink or other products.
   (M)   MARIJUANA CONCENTRATE:
      (1)   Means resin extracted from any part of a plant of the genus
cannabis and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or
preparation of that resin or tetrahydrocannabinol.
      (2)   Does not include industrial hemp or the weight of any other
ingredient combined with cannabis to prepare topical or oral administrations,
food, drink or other products.
   (N)   MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENT. An entity licensed by the Department to
operate all of the following:
      (1)   A single retail location at which the licensee may sell marijuana
and marijuana products to consumers, cultivate marijuana and manufacture
marijuana products.
      (2)   A single off-site cultivation location at which the licensee may
cultivate marijuana, process marijuana and manufacture marijuana products, but
from which marijuana and marijuana products may not be transferred or sold to
consumers.
      (3)   A single off-site location at which the licensee may manufacture
marijuana products and package and store marijuana and marijuana products, but
from which marijuana and marijuana products may not be transferred or sold to
consumers.
   (O)   MARIJUANA PRODUCTS. Marijuana concentrate and products that are
composed of marijuana and other ingredients and that are intended for use or
consumption, including edible products, ointments, and tinctures.
   (P)   MARIJUANA TESTING FACILITY. The Department or another entity that is
licensed by the Department to analyze the potency of marijuana and test
marijuana for harmful contaminants.
   (Q)   NONPROFIT MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY. A nonprofit entity as defined
in A.R.S. § 36-2801(12).
   (R)   OPEN SPACE. A public park, public sidewalk, public walkway or public
pedestrian thoroughfare.
   (S)   PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation, association, or any
other entity of whatever kind or nature.
   (T)   PROCESS AND PROCESSING. To harvest, dry, cure, trim or separate parts
of the marijuana plant.
   (U)   PUBLIC PLACE. Has the same meaning prescribed in the Smoke-Free-
Arizona Act, A.R.S. § 36-601.01.
   (V)   SMOKE. To inhale, exhale, burn, carry or possess any lighted marijuana
or lighted marijuana products, whether natural or synthetic.
(Ord. 21-157, passed 3-16-2021)
§ 153.211 MARIJUANA PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Marijuana prohibited on public property.
      (1)   The use, sale, cultivation, manufacture, production or distribution
of marijuana or marijuana products is prohibited on property that is occupied,
owned, controlled or operated by town.
      (2)   It is unlawful for an individual to consume marijuana in a public
place or open space in town.
   (B)   Marijuana establishment prohibited.
      (1)   To the fullest extent allowable by law, the operation of a
marijuana establishment is prohibited in town.
      (2)   To the fullest extent allowable by law, the operation of a
marijuana establishment by a dual licensee is prohibited in town.
   (C)   Marijuana testing facility prohibited. To the fullest extent allowable
by law, the operation of a marijuana testing facility is prohibited in town.
   (D)   Marijuana delivery prohibited in town.  To the fullest extent
allowable by law, delivery of marijuana within the town limits.
(Ord. 21-157, passed 3-16-2021)
§ 153.212 INDIVIDUAL'S PRIMARY RESIDENCE FOR PERSONAL USE.
   (A)   To the fullest extent allowable by law, marijuana possession,
consumption, processing, manufacturing, transportation, and cultivation is
permitted in the marijuana consumer's primary residence in a residential zoning
district in town and is subject to the following conditions and limitation:
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any individual who is at least 21 years of
age to possess, transport, cultivate or process more than six marijuana plants.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for two or more individuals who are at least
21 year of age to possess, transport, cultivate or process more than 12
marijuana plants at the individuals' primary residence.
      (3)   Except as provided by A.R.S. §§ 36-2801 et seq. and this section,
it shall be unlawful for an individual to otherwise cultivate marijuana in a
residential zoning district within the town limits.
      (4)   Individuals shall not process or manufacture marijuana by means of
any liquid or gas other than alcohol, that has a flashpoint below one 100
degrees Fahrenheit.
      (5)   Kitchen, bathrooms, and primary bedroom(s) shall be used for their
intended use and shall not be used primarily for residential marijuana
processing, manufacturing, or cultivation.
      (6)   A residence shall not emit dust, fumes, vapors, or odors into the
environment and individuals shall ensure that ventilation, air filtration,
building and design standards are compatible with adjacent uses and the
requirements of adopted building codes of town.
      (7)   Cultivation shall be limited to a closet, room, greenhouse, or
other enclosed area on the grounds of the residence equipped with a lock or
other security device that prevents access by minors.
      (8)   Cultivation shall take place in an area where the marijuana plants
are not visible from public view without using binoculars, aircraft, or other
optical aids.
(Ord. 21-157, passed 3-16-2021)
§ 153.213 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful and a violation of this subchapter for a person to use
property to sell, cultivate, process, manufacture or transport marijuana or
marijuana products in violation of this subchapter.
   (B)   Each day any violation of any provision of this subchapter shall
continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 21-157, passed 3-16-2021)
§ 153.214 ENFORCEMENT; PENALTIES.
   (A)   Violations of this subchapter are in addition to any other violation
enumerated within the town ordinances or the Town Code and in no way limits the
penalties, actions or abatement procedures which may be taken by the town for
any violation of this subchapter, which is also a violation of any other
ordinance or Code provision of the town or federal or state law. Conviction and
punishment of judgment and civil sanction against any person under this
subchapter shall not relieve such person from the responsibility of correcting
prohibited conditions, or removing prohibited structures or improvements, and
shall not prevent the enforced correction or removal thereof.
   (B)   Penalty: Violations of any provision of this subchapter shall be Town
Code offenses which may be adjudicated and enforced by the town as set forth in
§§
153.020 and
153.999.
(Ord. 21-157, passed 3-16-2021)
DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
§ 153.215 INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The Town Vision 2028 states: "People live in Dewey-Humboldt because
they like a slower pace, more elbow room, and a more rural character." The
purpose of the Design and Development Standards subchapter of the zoning
regulations is to pursue the town's vision, encouraging its "sense of place" to
be maintained during growth and development.
   (B)   The intent of this subchapter is to encourage building designs that
are compatible with other buildings, historic buildings and older areas of the
town, and which appeal to the small-town, country-living environment. It is
also the intent of this subchapter to mitigate impact of non-compatible
adjacent uses through screening, outside lighting control and other regulatory
considerations.
   (C)   In order to preserve the small town, rural identity of the town, new
non-residential construction should address pedestrian orientation for usage
and access as well as vehicular access; buildings need to be placed so as to
visually contain the State Routes 69 and 169 corridors rather than expand the
highway widths; parking should not dominate the frontage areas; and the
aesthetics of building architectural styles and details must be considered
significant factors.
   (D)   This subchapter addresses site/building orientation, parking setbacks
and screening and building design and architectural styles, and makes reference
to landscaping and screening, signs, parking, and outdoor light control, which
are covered in other areas of this
Chapter 153.
(Ord. 08-46, passed 12-16-2008)
§ 153.216 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to:
   (A)   All new multi-family and nonresidential development; except that
single-family residences and agricultural buildings are exempted;
   (B)   Change of use from residential to non-residential where town approvals
are required;
   (C)   Change of use from single-family to multi-family residential where
town approvals are required; and
   (D)   Major expansion, remodeling, and renovation of existing buildings on a
lot or building tract, or a related or stand-alone parking lot shall comply
with the requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 08-46, passed 12-16-2008)
§ 153.217 PROCESS FOR PROPOSED DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Pre-application meeting and plan submittals.
      (1)   Prior to submission of building plans, applicants are to meet with
the Zoning Administrator or other designated official for consideration of
design styles and standards for compliance with this subchapter.
      (2)   All plans for new development, major expansions, remodeling and
renovation of existing buildings shall be submitted for review and approval
following the procedures listed below.
      (3)   All submittals shall include an application, filing fees, a mailing
list and affidavit of mailing, signed and notarized stating that notification
to surrounding property owners within 300 feet of the project site is
conducted; and a site plan drawn to scale and fully dimensioned, including the
information specified below:
         (a)   North arrow and scale of drawing;
         (b)   Dimensioned lot lines of site;
         (c)   Topographic contours;
         (d)   Utility lines or easements;
         (e)   Drainage ways;
         (f)   Adjacent streets and alleys, drawn and dimensioned to the
centerlines;
         (g)   All buildings, signs, light posts, fences, walls and other
structures, all fully dimensioned and with dimensions between structures and
lot lines, and all in compliance with §§
153.218 through
153.220;
         (h)   On-site parking spaces and driveways, dimensioned and in
compliance with §
153.219 and with §§
153.110 and
153.111;
         (i)   Points of ingress and egress for both vehicles and pedestrians;
         (j)   Locations, dimensions and materials planned for walkways,
landscaping and other outdoor amenities; and
         (k)   Locations of, and screening devices for, outdoor mechanical
equipment and refuse collection areas, and for buffering adjacent residential
uses, all in compliance with §
153.220.
      (4)   All submittals shall include a vicinity map depicting the
properties to be considered for compatibility of building character in
compliance with §§
153.221 through
153.228.
      (5)   All submittals shall include architectural elevations of any
building facade facing a street in compliance with §§
153.221 through
153.228, relating to the following building design elements:
         (a)   Height, scale, proportion and profile;
         (b)   Building facade patterns and architectural features; and
         (c)   Surface texture, materials and color.
      (6)   All submittals shall include design elevation and plan drawings of
outdoor lighting structures and signs, in compliance with §
153.223(C)(6) and (7), and with §§
153.125 through
153.138 and §§
153.150 through
153.153.
      (7)   All submittals shall include landscape and irrigation plans
depicting the locations, size and type of plant and irrigation materials to be
installed in the following areas:
         (a)   Parkways between sidewalks and streets, and in parking areas as
specified in §§
153.110 and
153.111; and
         (b)   Along side or rear property lines when landscaping is used as
screening materials between residential and non-residential uses or parking, as
specified in §
153.220.
   (B)   Administrative review.
      (1)   When all of the submittal documents listed above have been
received, the Zoning Administrator or other designated official shall review
the application and project.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator may request additional documents for
further clarification of the proposed design elements.
      (3)   When the Zoning Administrator finds that the submittals are in
compliance with this subchapter and other regulations of the town, the plans
will be approved.
      (4)   The Zoning Administrator may approve modifications from these
design and development regulations due to physical site constraints, such as
difficult topography, soil conditions, drainage and other existing physical
features. The Zoning Administrator's decision shall be written, specifying the
reasons justifying the approval of a modification. No construction of the
project, however, shall commence for at least 30 days after approval of a
modification to allow for appeal of the Zoning Administrator's determination.
   (C)   Appeals and legislative decisions.
      (1)   Written requests for an appeal of the decision of the Zoning
Administrator or from the terms of this subchapter shall be filed within the
Planning and Zoning Department in accordance with procedures set forth in §
153.022, for public hearings to be held by the Planning and Zoning Commission
and the Town Council; appeals shall be written, specifying the reasons for or
against the requested modification(s).
      (2)   In designated historic districts and in any development project
with potential significant impact, the Zoning Administrator may submit the
application directly to the Planning and Zoning Commission and Town Council for
decision and action.
   (D)   Alterations and expansions.
      (1)   Any alteration to (including exterior color changes) or expansion
of a building or property which has received approval of plans in compliance
with this chapter shall be required to file new submittals in accordance with
town law, described above.
      (2)   All alterations and expansions shall comply with all provisions of
the design and development standards of this subchapter.
(Ord. 08-46, passed 12-16-2008)
§ 153.218 BUILDING ORIENTATION.
   (A)   In keeping with the small town, rural identity of the town, it is
necessary to mitigate the impact of high traffic corridors and significant
vehicular access ways. Buildings shall be located at or near the front property
lines, oriented to pedestrian traffic with parking to the side or rear of the
building.
   (B)   All new buildings and additions to existing buildings shall maintain
the same or similar front and side yard setbacks as those on the same block or
blocks, except that no building shall be set back for the purpose of locating
parking in the front yards; all parking shall be located in the rear or side
yards.
   (C)   Pedestrian access ways shall be installed between the parking area and
building, and along the street frontage where feasible.
(Ord. 08-46, passed 12-16-2008)
§ 153.219 PARKING SETBACKS.
   (A)   Parking areas, garages, carports, and accessory buildings shall be
located behind the principal building with vehicular access consisting of a
hard-surfaced, permanent driveway from the street through the side or front of
the lot; the driveway shall comply with access regulations of the town; where
alleys exist or are proposed, vehicular access MAY be from an alley through the
rear yard;
   (B)   In no case shall parking areas, carports or garages be located in any
front yard or closer to the frontage street than 20 feet behind the front of
the principal building; and
   (C)   For specific parking requirements, refer to §§
153.110 and
153.111.
(Ord. 08-46, passed 12-16-2008)
§ 153.220 PROTECTIVE SCREENS; FENCES, WALLS AND LANDSCAPE.
   (A)   Screening devices shall be similar in materials and height to those of
other properties on the same block or blocks.
   (B)   Fences used for multi-family residences along street frontages shall
have the appearance of spaced wood pickets, wrought iron, stone, brick or of
the same materials as the residential buildings, and shall not exceed a maximum
height of four feet.
   (C)   Where a non-residential use in the commercial or industrial districts
abuts a residential use in a residential district, an opaque wall or fence, six
feet in height above the average elevation of the ground level within a six-
foot radius of the point of measurement on the fence or wall, shall be
constructed along all common property lines of materials and finishes
compatible with the adjacent residential building; such walls may be of
masonry, double-sided wood fencing, stuccoed wood frame walls, native stone or
rock veneered walls; a dense landscaping buffer may be substituted if approved
by the Zoning Administrator; all protective screen walls in the front yard
setback shall be lowered to four feet in height.
   (D)   Screening walls or fences shall be enhanced by the installation of 15-
gallon drought tolerant trees, planted 20 feet on center along the screen
walls; refer to §
153.080 for further Landscape and Screening regulations.
   (E)   Outside display for commercial uses shall also comply with the
regulations in town law, including §
153.085, Outside Display-Commercial.
   (F)   Where a non-residential use occupies a portion of a residence and is
adjacent to a purely residential use, screening shall be provided by an opaque
fence or wall at least four feet in height, or by the planting of dense
shrubbery capable of obtaining a minimum height of four feet within two growing
seasons, or by a combination of both; such screening devices shall be located
so as to screen on-site parking, refuse collection and mechanical equipment
areas from the adjacent residence; refer to §
153.080 for further Landscape and Screening regulations.
   (G)   Tree and shrubbery species used for screening shall be selected from
the Low Water Use Drought Tolerant Plant List of the Prescott Active Management
Area, Arizona Department of Water Resources, and shall be additional to other
on-site landscaping required by §
153.080.
(Ord. 08-46, passed 12-16-2008)
§ 153.221 BUILDING DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURAL STYLES, GENERALLY.
   (A)   New structures, additions, rehabilitation, and restoration of
buildings shall be constructed to enhance the appearance of the rural, small
town environment of the town. Emphasis is on building designs compatible with
historic areas and with the building character described for the architectural
styles that follow:
      (1)   Territorial Commercial and Early 20th Century Commercial
Architectural Style;
      (2)   Mission Style;
      (3)   Craftsman/Bungalow Style;
      (4)   Contemporary Southwestern/Western Ranch Theme.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter is intended to require a replication of any
historic architectural style. Creativity with compatibility is encouraged. This
is accomplished by first, conceiving of each building or structure as an
integral part of a grouping of existing or proposed buildings within a block,
neighborhood or area; and secondly, buildings are analyzed for significant
character elements which are categorized and explained in this subchapter.
(Ord. 08-46, passed 12-16-2008)
§ 153.222 BUILDING DESIGN COMPATIBILITY.
   Proposed buildings and additions shall be similar and compatible to other
buildings in the block, neighborhood or area in which they are situated,
including adjacent buildings, fronting on and across the same street.
(Ord. 08-46, passed 12-16-2008)
§ 153.223 BUILDING DESIGN ELEMENTS.
   (A)   Generally. Building design and architectural features establish the
character of a building or complex of buildings. The character elements are
comprised of the following:
      (1)   Height, scale, proportion and profile;
      (2)   Building facade patterns and architectural features; and
      (3)   Surface texture and color.
   (B)   Height, scale, proportion and profile.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dabe9726ae38701612cdb69c32e218ccf7d4b064/
IMAGES/0-0-0-758.jpg]
 
      (1)   Height. All new buildings and additions shall be similar in height
to that of other buildings on the same block or blocks, and shall comply with
the height regulations that follow.
         (a)   The maximum building height is two stories, or 30 feet in all
Residential Zoning Districts, except when a use permit is granted by the
Planning and Zoning Commission and Town Council for three or four stories with
maximum heights of 40 feet and 50 feet respectively in the Residential Multi-
Family District, the Residential and Service District, and the Commercial
Districts.
         (b)   Two stories may also be exceeded by the approval of a use permit
in the Industrial Zones.
         (c)   Refer to §
153.091 for procedures on use permits.
         (d)   The maximum height of a building shall comply with the
definition of BUILDING HEIGHT as specified in §
153.005 of this chapter.
      (2)   Scale and proportion. All new buildings and additions shall be
similar in scale (relative size) and in proportion (ratio of building height to
building width) as that of the majority of other buildings on its block or
area, with emphasis on maintaining pedestrian related scale.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dabe9726ae38701612cdb69c32e218ccf7d4b064/
IMAGES/0-0-0-761.jpg]
 
      (3)   Profile. All new buildings and additions shall have roof profiles
similar to the majority of roof types and roof pitches on existing buildings on
the same block or area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dabe9726ae38701612cdb69c32e218ccf7d4b064/
IMAGES/0-0-0-764.jpg]
 
           (a)   Where a pitched, rather than a flat roof, is to be used,
similarity in the roof type and pitch is desired; and
         (b)   Where mechanical equipment is located on the roof, it shall be
screened from view from the street, adjacent properties and surrounding
hillside residences, by parapet walls or screens consisting of the same or
compatible materials, colors and textures as those of the building's walls.
   (C)   Building façade patterns and architectural features.
      (1)   Facade patterns. Any new or redeveloped building or addition,
fronting on a street, shall have a regular arrangement of architectural
features, i.e., a recurring alternation or pattern of solids (walls) and voids
(windows and doors), similar to those on the same block or area in which it is
located; blank, flat facades are prohibited; and:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dabe9726ae38701612cdb69c32e218ccf7d4b064/
IMAGES/0-0-0-767.jpg]
 
         (a)   Non-residential building facades shall be divided by structural
piers, bays or other vertical architectural features at a maximum interval
length of 25 feet, as illustrated below, or the same facade length as a
majority of other buildings on the same block;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dabe9726ae38701612cdb69c32e218ccf7d4b064/
IMAGES/0-0-0-770.jpg]
 
          (b)   Multiple-family residential building facades planned for more
than one lot, or for a lot wider than 50 feet, shall be divided by structural
piers, bays or other architectural features at a maximum interval length of 25
feet; and
         (c)   Residential building facades shall be divided into a series of
planes with bays, recesses, porches and other architectural features.
      (2)   Principal Entries and Doors shall be located so as to be the focal
point of the facade of new and redeveloped buildings:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dabe9726ae38701612cdb69c32e218ccf7d4b064/
IMAGES/0-0-0-773.jpg]
 
            (a)   Entries shall be protected from weather by being recessed or
by the use of attached porches, pediments or small roofs;
         (b)   Entry and door designs shall be appropriate and similar to that
of other buildings on the same block;
         (c)   Entries shall enhance pedestrian usage by being connected
directly to safe, comfortable walkways or street sidewalks.
      (3)   Windows fronting streets shall be appropriate to their intended
use, similar to the windows used in buildings on the same block, and shall be
designed to relate to human scale and pedestrian views:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dabe9726ae38701612cdb69c32e218ccf7d4b064/
IMAGES/0-0-0-776.jpg]
 
            (a)   To relate to the standing human form, windows shall be
vertical or square, not horizontal;
         (b)   Windows shall be enhanced by molding, trim boards, pediments or
other architectural detailing;
         (c)   Display windows storefronts shall have continuous awnings or
canopies over display windows protecting pedestrians from weather;
         (d)   Large glazed wall areas and mirrored glass are prohibited,
except that merchandise display windows in storefronts are permitted in
accordance with facade length regulations previously specified in this section;
and
         (e)   Windows on non-residential use buildings above the first floor
shall not be located to overlook adjacent residential uses.
      (4)   Porches shall be attached to front facades of residential buildings
having a minimum depth of six feet, and:
         (a)   Occupying at least 30% of the total building façade length of
attached multiple-family dwellings; and
         (b)   Vertical columns or posts shall support the porch roof and be
appropriately spaced to continue the emphasis of vertical human scale.
      (5)   Other architectural features, such as awnings, canopies, balconies,
recessed or relief bands of detailing and kick plate panels, are encouraged and
shall be compatible with the building to which they are attached and with the
intent of this subchapter.
      (6)   Exterior signs.
         (a)   All signs shall be an integral part of the building design,
complementing it in appearance, color, size and location; and, shall comply
with §§
153.125 through
153.138.
         (b)   Signs for multi-family and non-residential uses in designated
historic districts shall be regulated by sign design criteria as specified in
the district.
         (c)   Off-premise signs or billboards are not permitted in any
designated historic district, except where off-site advertising signs were
historically painted directly on walls of buildings in the historic district.
         (d)   All signs and graphic symbols shall be designed in character and
color with the building, use and purpose of the zoning district in which it is
located, as well as with that of adjacent buildings.
         (e)   Signs intended for pedestrian viewing shall be scaled for the
pedestrian and be located at pedestrian levels with letter height sizes of
three to six inches.
         (f)   Banners, pennants, bunting and other special event signage are
permitted for the identification of special cultural districts and events, and
for customary seasonal or holiday decorations, subject to review by the Zoning
Administrator when proposed for locations in public rights-of-way.
         (g)   Illuminated signs shall not be located in yards adjacent to
residential districts.
      (7)   Building exterior and outdoor lighting.
         (a)   All outdoor lighting shall comply with §§
153.150 through
153.153 of this Chapter and be fully shielded and oriented down and away from
adjacent properties and streets, except for historic lampposts in designated
historic districts.
         (b)   In the Multi-Family Residential and in the Residential and
Service Districts, all lighting shall be low-intensity, wall-mounted, with a
"front porch light" appearance, or low-intensity, low-profile and ground-
mounted.
         (c)   In the Commercial and Industrial Districts, wall- and fascia-
mounted lights shall be attached so that no part of the light source or
structure exceeds the building's roof line.
         (d)   Exceptions.
            1.   Decorative white or colored light bulbs, not exceeding four
watts, which may be strung along building roof lines and architectural features
to create an outline effect, and other decorative lights customary to seasonal
holidays of a temporary duration.
            2.   In the Commercial and Industrial Districts where high-profile
lighting is necessary for security purposes, freestanding light structures may
be permitted at a height not exceeding 18 feet measured from the surface
intended for illumination to the highest point of the light source or
structure.
            3.   Freestanding light structures and wall- or fascia-mounted
lights shall not be located in yards adjacent to residential districts.
   (D)   Building surface texture and color.
      (1)   Exterior textures of all new buildings, additions and
rehabilitation of buildings shall respect and be similar to the exterior
texture of buildings on the same block or blocks:
         (a)   Exterior walls fronting streets shall be constructed of, or
surfaced with, brick, stucco, horizontal or shingled siding, granite or cut
stone, or other materials found on existing buildings on the same block, except
that flat or corrugated metal sheeting is prohibited.
         (b)   No more than two different materials shall be used to cover the
primary wall areas of a building facade, not including trim or accent
materials, such as stone, wood or brick.
      (2)   Exterior colors of all new buildings, additions and rehabilitation
of buildings shall respect and be complementary to colors and tones of
buildings on the same block or blocks:
         (a)   The base colors of exterior walls fronting on streets and alleys
shall be the natural color of the material of brick or stone, or be of the same
hue, a tone of the same hue, or a contrasting hue which complements an adjacent
building or group of buildings.
         (b)   Trim and accent colors shall complement the wall base color and
that of adjacent buildings on the same block.
         (c)   Earth tones, muted colors and warm off-whites are generally
acceptable, while colors that visually overpower adjacent buildings are
prohibited.
(Ord. 08-46, passed 12-16-2008)
§ 153.224 ARCHITECTURAL STYLES AND THEMES, GENERALLY.
   In order to retain the small town, rural identity of the town, new non-
residential uses shall be designed to be compatible with existing historic
structures; or shall be designed to be compatible with a selection of
architectural themes described in this subchapter. It is not the intent or
purpose of this subchapter to require the replication of any historic style or
structure. Rather, the intent is to encourage building designs that are
compatible with other buildings and which appeal to the small-town, country-
living environment of the town. Emphasis is on architecture that relates to
human scale and enhances inter-personal resident experiences and pedestrian
access. The following list of styles and architectural themes are offered as
appropriate examples, but creativity is strongly encouraged:
   (A)   Territorial Commercial (before 1912 statehood) and Early 20th Century
Commercial Architectural Style (built +/- 1912 to +/- 1930);
   (B)   Mission Style;
   (C)   Craftsman/Bungalow Style; and
   (D)   Contemporary Southwestern/Western Ranch Theme.
(Ord. 08-46, passed 12-16-2008)
§ 153.225 LATE TERRITORIAL COMMERCIAL AND EARLY 20TH CENTURY COMMERCIAL.
   These styles relate to buildings generally constructed just prior to, and in
the first few decades of, the 20th Century in business areas. These are
prevalent historic styles in commercial areas of the region. Excellent examples
can be found in the Courthouse Plaza Historic Preservation District in downtown
Prescott. Prominent design features are noted below:
   (A)   Buildings are located at front property lines, not setback.
   (B)   Walls are of natural colored stone and brick masonry with flat roofs
screened by parapet walls (vertical extension of facade above the actual roof
line), usually 4 feet above roof.
   (C)   Typical one-story building is 16 feet to 24 feet in height and two-
story buildings are 28 feet to 36 feet in height.
   (D)   Typical building proportions: One-story building of 25 feet width to a
height of 16 feet to18 feet; while a one-story, 75-foot wide building has a
height of 20 feet to 24 feet.
   (E)   Scale and mass of buildings are similar with windows and doors aligned
in adjacent groupings of buildings.
   (F)   First floors contain commercial uses, while upper floors contain
offices or residential uses.
   (G)   First floor architecture reflects pedestrian access with strong
vertical orientation of windows and doors; below storefront windows are opaque
three-foot high bottom panels; doors are topped by transom windows.
   (H)   Typically the maximum spacing between windows is ten feet; the minimum
wall surface from a window opening to the corner of a building is three feet;
the minimum wall area above a window is one and one-half feet and the maximum
wall below is four feet.
   (I)   Architectural details such as medallions, rows of brick patterns
(corbelling), arches, cornices (projections at top of wall), or columns enhance
facades.
   (J)   Fabric awnings are often above windows and doors.
   (K)   Signs are usually flat against building facade; no roof mounted or
moving signs.
   (L)   Trees and shrubs for shading pedestrian areas are along street right-
of-way, not located within building lot; hanging planters often are suspended
from building structures.
   (M)   Parking and loading areas are behind buildings.
   (N)   Examples of historic Late Territorial/Early 20th Century Commercial
buildings and a contemporary infill building are shown below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dabe9726ae38701612cdb69c32e218ccf7d4b064/
IMAGES/0-0-0-779.jpg]
 
Contemporary-Infill building on left
(Ord. 08-46, passed 12-16-2008)
§ 153.226 MISSION STYLE.
   This style is not common in the region, the Mission Style's prominent
features are tile covered, gabled or hipped roofs, stucco walls and arched
entrances. An example is the former Santa Fe Railway Depot, built in 1907, in
downtown Prescott, shown below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dabe9726ae38701612cdb69c32e218ccf7d4b064/
IMAGES/0-0-0-782.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dabe9726ae38701612cdb69c32e218ccf7d4b064/
IMAGES/0-0-0-785.jpg]
 
(Ord. 08-46, passed 12-16-2008)
§ 153.227 CRAFTSMAN/BUNGALOW STYLE.
   This style is usually found in residential structures, but contains features
that may be used in commercial construction, such as broad, simple eaves with
exposed rafters, recessed porch or veranda extending along the full width, or
at least half, of the building's frontage; wood, stone and stucco are common
materials. Examples of homes built in the Craftsman/Bungalow Style in the first
quarter of the 20th Century can be found on many streets near downtown Prescott
and other areas of the region. Examples of historic Craftsman/Bungalows used
for businesses and a contemporary version are shown below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dabe9726ae38701612cdb69c32e218ccf7d4b064/
IMAGES/0-0-0-788.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dabe9726ae38701612cdb69c32e218ccf7d4b064/
IMAGES/0-0-0-791.jpg]
 
(Ord. 08-46, passed 12-16-2008)
§ 153.228 CONTEMPORARY SOUTHWESTERN RANCH THEME.
   This style is not based on a historic style, but compatible in scale, mass,
alignment of architectural features and details, building orientation, setbacks
and parking placement. The theme emphasizes low building mass: wider and longer
than tall. The building usually is characterized by broad overhangs and full-
width or wrap-around porches extending from the main roof structure. Exterior
materials may be of wood, stucco, brick, stone, adobe or combinations of not
more than two of these materials. Roofs may be gabled or hipped with tile or
shingles, or flat with parapet walls. Windows and doors are vertically oriented
to pedestrians. An example of a contemporary Southwestern Ranch style building
is shown below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dabe9726ae38701612cdb69c32e218ccf7d4b064/
IMAGES/0-0-0-794.jpg]
 
(Ord. 08-46, passed 12-16-2008)
§ 153.229 (RESERVED).
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil penalties. 
      (1)   Each day’s continuance of a zoning violation shall be deemed a
separate offense.
      (2)   The maximum penalty for each offense shall be:
         (a)   For an individual, $750; or
         (b)   For any enterprise corporation, association, labor union or
other legal entity, $10,000.
   (B)   Criminal penalties. The maximum penalty for each offense shall be a
Class 2 misdemeanor as established by the Arizona Revised Statutes.
(Ord. 08-44 § 206(A), (B), passed 10-21-2008)
APPENDIX A: FEE SCHEDULE
   The Town Manager, Town Clerk, Town Engineer, Town Attorney and any other
necessary persons are hereby authorized to prepare the agreements, forms and
instruments contemplated to be used by the town in implementing the provisions
of this Fee Schedule.
Fee Type              Base Fee
Zoning Clearance Fees Metes and Bounds and Recorded Lots
Fee Type                                                                            Base Fee
                                                                                    Metes and
Zoning Clearance Fees                                                               Bounds and
                                                                                    Recorded Lots
1.   Residential: Site built house; mobile home; duplex; triplex; quad; multi-   $100 per
family; motel w/cooking facilities.                                                 dwelling unit
   a.   Detached accessory structures, such as courts, pools, garages, water t$25s,
barns, stables and sheds greater than 400 square feet
   b.   Fences, walls, sheds, 400 square feet or less in size, and extensions $15
existing detached accessory structures
2.   Residential follow-on (means attached to a primary structure): Attached     $35
accessory/additions (including enclosures)
   a.   Remodel                                                               $15
   b.   Slabs, paving, patios, and sheds 400 square feet or less              $15
3.   Nonresidential: noncommercial; motels; camps; commercial; industrial; change$.125 per sq.
of use; includes slabs, paving, walls, fences, sign supports, permits               ft. under roof
   Otherwise, minimum permit                                                     $125
4.   Minimum permit                                                              $15
5.   Permit renewals (within 180 days of original permit)
   a   Single family residential                                              $10
   b.   Non-single family residential                                         $50
6.   Revised plot plan                                                           $10
7.   Refunds of zoning clearance fees
                                                                                    Retain $10 or
   a.   Denied or withdrawn zoning clearance                                  25%, whichever
                                                                                    is greater
   b.   Department errors, such as duplicates                                 $0
8.   Mobile home parks (RV)                                                      $200 plus $10
                                                                                    per space
9.   Commercial permit review fee                                                $100
                                                                                    (nonrefundable)
10.   Lighting permit                                                            $50
11.   Home occupation                                                            $25
Temporary Dwelling Permits
1.   New                                                                         $25
2.   Renewal                                                                     $50
3.   Second renewal                                                              See use permit
Sign Permits
Sign Type:
1.   Temporary signs, directional signs (both on- and off-premises)              $10
2.   All on-premises signs intended for advertising regardless of use or size    $60
3.   All off-premises signs (other than directional)                             $200
Note: Structures other than purely supports (such as monuments, poles and standards) must be
permitted as structures separate from their associated signs with permits under general zoning
clearance procedures or have a proven pre-existing legal status.
                                                                                    Base Fee
Hearing Applications to Boards of Adjustment and Appeals                            (Includes
                                                                                    Electronic
                                                                                    Document Fee)
1.   Base variance                                                               R: $250/C:
                                                                                    $500*
2.   Each additional variance
   a.   BOA appeals (must be separate hearing application)                    $400*
   b.   Hearing Officer appeal (payable to Zoning Administrator)              $400*
   c.   Zoning verification letter                                            $150*
   d.   Minor administrative variance (administrative review)                 $85
2.   Conditional use permits
   a.   Residential                                                           $750 plus $10
                                                                                    per acre
   b.   Commercial                                                            $1,000 plus $10
                                                                                    per acre
   c.   Industrial                                                            $1,000 plus $10
                                                                                    per acre
                                                                                    Base Fee +
Zoning Map Change (to following district) OR use permit (determined by district in  Multiplier
which the requested use would most closely be allowed in as a matter of right)      (Includes
                                                                                    Electronic
                                                                                    Document Fee)
1.   Residential (R1L; RMM; R1; RCU; R2; OS)                                     $750 plus $20
                                                                                    per acre
2.   Commercial (RCD; RS; PI; C1; C2)                                            $1,000 plus $50
                                                                                    per acre
3.    Industrial (C3; PM; M1; M2)                                                $1,000 plus $50
                                                                                    per acre
4.    Planned Area Development (PAD)                                             $750 plus $20
                                                                                    per acre
5.   Planned Area Development (PAD) Major amendment (P&Z and Town Council hearing$750 plus $10
required)                                                                           per acre
6.   Planned Area Development (PAD) Minor amendment (staff review)               $500*
7.    Administrative amendment                                                   $1,000
8.   Density district change ONLY, which results in a decrease in the overall    $0
density with no change to the use district
                                                                                    New application
                                                                                    fee for
                                                                                    corresponding
9.   Density district change ONLY, which results in an increase in the overall   use district
density with no change to the use district                                          type (i.e.,
                                                                                    residential,
                                                                                    commercial,
                                                                                    industrial)
10.   Extension of time for time limited zoning.                                 Base fee only
11.   Amendment of conditional zoning                                            Full fee less
                                                                                    25%
12.   UP renewal with NO modifications                                           Full fee less
                                                                                    50%
13.    UP renewal with modifications                                             Full fee
14.   UP mobile home/RV park                                                     $700 plus $10
                                                                                    per space
15.   UP home occupation (uses are distinguishable from normal residential uses a$300
do not meet all requirements of the home occupation ordinance)
16.    Administrative UP with comment                                            $350
17.   UP or conditional zoning amendment                                         Same as full
                                                                                    fee less 25%
                                                                                    Base Fee +
                                                                                    Multiplier
Street Names and Addressing                                                         (Includes
                                                                                    Electronic
                                                                                    Document Fee)
1.    Chance existing street name                                                $250
2.    Change existing address number (per request and not initiated by Yavapai   $250
County for 911 purposes)
                                                                                    Base Fee
Wireless Use Permits                                                                (Includes
                                                                                    Electronic
                                                                                    Document Fee)
1.   Applications to be processed by administrative review                       $250
2.   Applications to be processed by administrative review with comment period   $350
3.   Applications requiring a use permit                                         $1,000
4.   Applications to review/renew an existing approved facility                  50% of base fee
                                                                                    Base Fee
Final Site Plan                                                                     (Includes
                                                                                    Electronic
                                                                                    Document Fee)
1.   Amendment or review requiring a new public hearing                          $700*
2.   Amendment or review requiring staff review only                             $250
3.   Preliminary site plan review by P&Z and Town Council                        $500*
Development Agreements
Base Fee                                                                            $1,500
4.   Amendment to approved development agreement                                 $500
                                                                                    Base Fee +
                                                                                    Multiplier [$50
General Plan Amendments (Includes Community Plans)                                  per acre]
                                                                                    (Includes
                                                                                    Electronic
                                                                                    Document Fee)
1.   Minor                                                                       $3,743
2.   Major (heard once per year)                                                 $4,417
                                                                                    Base Fee +
                                                                                    Multiplier
Subdivisions                                                                        (Includes
                                                                                    Environmental
                                                                                    and Electronic
                                                                                    Document Fee)
1.   Sketch plan                                                                 $350
2.   Administrative preliminary plat                                             $350 plus $20
                                                                                    per lot
3.   Preliminary plat                                                            $1,000 plus $10
                                                                                    per lot
4.   Final plat                                                                  $750 plus $10
                                                                                    per lot
5.   Record of survey in lieu of subdivision (for 3 lots or less)                $500
6.   Abandonment of a final plat/zoning/reversion to acreage                     $750
7.   Extension of time for pre-plat                                              $500
8.   Administrative consideration of a 6-month extension for final plat recording$100
9.   Second and any subsequent extension(s) of final plat recording (requiring   $500
public hearing)
10.   Traffic report related to platting                                         Actual cost to
                                                                                    review
11.   Drainage report related to platting                                        Actual cost to
                                                                                    review
Base P&Z Commission Review
1.   (Examples: review of miscellaneous applications such as Alternative Financia$500
Assurances; Section Line Setback Waiver and the like)
2.   Site/development plan/lotting layout                                        $750
Re-advertising — Any Public Hearing
1.   Deferred to date specific                                                   No fee
2.   Deferred to date unspecified; application to be reheard between 0 and 179 da$250*
of original hearing date. Requires re-advertising only
3.   Deferred date unspecified; application to be reheard between 180 and 364 days
of original hearing date. Requires re-advertising, posting, and public hearing      $250*
notices mailed to surrounding property owners
4.   Deferred date unspecified; application to be reheard 365 days or longer afteNew full
original hearing date. Requires new application                                     application fee
Annexations
1.   Base fee                                                                    $750*
Professional Services
                                                                                    $250 per sheet
                                                                                    for first and
1.   Engineering review - base fee for any of the above                          second reviews,
                                                                                    $100 per hour
                                                                                    thereafter
2.   Engineer                                                                    Actual cost
3.   Planner                                                                     Actual cost
4.   Clerical                                                                    Actual cost
*Plus direct expenses, i.e., postage, advertising and the like
 
(Ord. 05-09, passed 6-21-2005; Am. Ord. 10-73, passed 8-17-2010; Am. Ord. 11-
81, passed 3-15-2011)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   ANNEXATION
         
II.   AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
         
III.   ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
TABLE I: ANNEXATION
 
Ord./Res. Date Passed Description
                      Deannexing two parcels of land, APN 402-02-518, as
08-39     5-20-2008   excepted, approximately 2.5 acres; and APN 402-02-519, as
                      excepted, approximately 0.1 acre
                      Extending and increasing the corporate limits of the city
16-131    11-15-2016  in annexation case number ANX 16-01, by annexing certain
                      territory contiguous to the existing town limits and
                      adopting initial town zoning for said property
                     
 
TABLE II: AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
Ord./Res. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res.   Date Passed Description
Res. 05-21  11-1-2005   Authorizing the town to join the County Water Advisory
                        Committee and designating the town's representative
                        Agreement with Yavapai County and the towns of Prescott
Res. 08-57  10-7-2008   Valley and Chino Valley, on the establishment of an
                        expanded or new Enterprise Zone
                        Agreement with Yavapai County and the towns of Prescott
Res. 08-60  11-18-2008  Valley and Chino Valley, relating to the renewal of the
                        existing Enterprise Zone
                        Approving the first amendment to intergovernmental
Res. 09-69  - -2009     agreement which established the Central Yavapai
                        Metropolitan Planning Organization (CYMPO)
Res. 09-72  12-1-2009   Amending the existing ADOH CDBG Program Contract
Res. 23-198 11-7-2023   Agreement with the Arizona Department of Revenue
                       
 
TABLE III: ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
Ord./Res. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. Date Passed Description
06-22     2-21-2006   Rezoning APN 402-02-049E from C3-1 (Commercial and Minor
                      Industrial) to M1 (Industrial, General Limited)
                      Rezoning APN 402-02-003G from R1L-70 (Residential, Single
06-23     4-4-2006    Family Limited) to C2-4 (Commercial, General Sales and
                      Service), approximately two acres
                      Rezoning APNs 402-02-506M (part), 402-02-254C, 402-02-
07-32     7-17-2007   256H, 402-02-009B, 402-02-009C, 402-02-013, 402-02-13A,
                      402-02-014, 402-02-015 and 402-02-016 from C2-4 and R1-70
                      to C2-4, approximately 28 acres
                      Rezoning APN 402-02-055 from R1L-25 (Residential, Single
08-37     3-4-2008    Family Limited to Site-Built Structures Only) to C2-4
                      (Commercial, General Sales and Services)
                      Rezoning Yavapai County Assessor Parcel 402-08-059H from
20-156    12-15-2020  R1-10 (Residential Single Family) to C2 (Commercial,
                      General Sales and Services)
                      Changing a mixture of zoning classifications of real
22-184    8-16-2022   property located at 13475 East Prescott Street from R1-70
                      (Residential; Single-Family) and R1-12 (Residential;
                      Single Family) to R1-12 (Residential; Single Family)
                      Changing zoning designation of real property Parcel 402-
23-199    1-2-2024    09- 028W from R1-10 (Residential, Single-Family) to C1-1
                      (Commercial; Neighborhood Sales and Services).
                     
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Arizona Revised Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
References to Policies
REFERENCES TO ARIZONA REVISED STATUTES
A.R.S. Cite Code Section
A.R.S. Cite                     Code Section
1-211 – 1-215                 10.05
Title 3                         90.02
Title 9, Chapter 4, Article 6   153.002
Title 9, Chapter 5, Article 1.1 51.16,
                                51.18
Title 9, Chapter 5, Article 4   51.16,
                                51.18
9-240(B)(28)(b)                 10.99
9-462                           153.005
9-462 et seq.                   153.019
9-462.04                        153.019
9-462.05                        153.019
9-462.06                        153.021
9-463.01                        152.08
9-500.05                        50.03
9-1201                          152.11
9-1202                          152.11
9-1204                          152.11
11-815                          150.01
11-863.C.                       150.01
11-865                          150.01,
                                150.08
11-866                          150.01
11-875                          150.05
11-1014                         90.19
12-821.01                       32.75
12-901 et seq.                  153.019
13-802.B.                       150.01
13-803-1-3                      150.01
13-3401                         153.210
13-3899                         90.03
15-761                          150.02
16-204                          30.043 –
                                30.045
16-902.01                       34.01
16-1019                         153.126
Title 19, Chapter 2             30.044
19-123                          34.01
19-124                          34.01
19-141 to 19-143                34.01
19-201(ff)                      34.01
19-208.03                       30.044
23-491 - 23-491.16              150.02
Title 28                        153.005
28-1598                         10.99
28-4881                         153.005
28-7054                         51.16
32.2101                         152.03
33-1701 – 33-1706             153.089
                                50.11,
Title 34                        50.15,
                                50.32
34-201.2                        50.38
Title 36, Chapter 28            153.205
36-551                          150.02
36-601.01                       153.210
36-897                          150.02
36-1601                         130.10
36-1631                         150.03
                                150.01,
36-1681                         150.10,
                                153.090
36-1681.A.                      150.10
36-1681.B.1.                    150.10
36-1681.B.3.(a)                 150.10
36-1681.B.3.(b)                 150.10
36-1681.B.4.                    150.10
36-1681.C.2.                    150.10
36-1681.C.3.                    150.10
36-1681.C.4.                    150.10
36-2801                         153.206
36-2801 et seq.                 153.212
36-2801(12)                     153.210
38-260                          30.017
38-431.01                       153.021
38-431.03                       30.103
Title 41, Chapter 9, Article 8  150.12
41-1492.01 et seq.              153.110
41-2154                         153.005
41-2155                         153.005
42-6051 et seq.                 34.16
42-12151                        153.005
42-17101 et seq.                30.030
Title 45                        152.03
45-108                          152.08
45-571                          50.38
45-576                          152.08
48-3613                         151.04
Title 49, Chapter 7             153.150
49-1101 et seq.                 153.150
                                
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
05-12    6-21-2005   33.03
05-13    6-21-2005   33.02
05-14    7-5-2005    34.01
07-35    3-20-2007   32.03
07-40    4-17-2007   32.02
07-49    11-20-2007  51.01
08-51    4-1-2008    91.01 –
                     91.05
08-56    9-2-2008    32.30,
                     32.31
08-59    11-4-2008   32.45 –
                     32.47
08-62    11-18-2008  32.04
09-69    - -2009     T.S.O. II
09-72    12-1-2009   T.S.O. II
10-74    1-5-2010    34.30
10-79    3-2-2010    32.32
12-101   3-6-2012    32.33
23-198   11-7-2023   T.S.O. II
23-199   1-2-2024    T.S.O. III
24-200   1-16-2024   32.33
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.        Date Passed Code Section
05-02           2-7-2005    34.16,
                            34.99
05-03           2-15-2005   32.01
05-04           3-1-2005    30.046
05-05           3-1-2005    30.045
05-07           3-15-2005   31.01
05-09           6-21-2005   153.999
                            50.01 -
                            50.17,
05-12           7-12-2005   50.30 -
                            50.38,
                            50.99
                            130.01 –
05-15           9-6-2005    130.04,
                            130.99
                            90.01 –
05-17           10-18-2005  90.02,
                            90.04 ,
                            90.99
                            93.01 –
05-18           10-18-2005  93.04,
                            93.99
                            110.01 –
05-19           11-1-2005   110.05,
                            110.99
                            90.16 –
05-20           11-15-2005  90.18 ,
                            90.99
                            151.01 –
06-27           7-18-2006   151.04,
                            151.99
08-36           1-15-2008   30.030
08-38           4-1-2008    34.17,
                            34.99
08-40           - -2008     153.152
08-41           8-5-2008    153.048
08-42           9-2-2008    32.15 –
                            32.18
08-43           9-16-2008   32.75,
                            32.76
08-44 § 101    10-21-2008  153.001
08-44 § 102    10-21-2008  153.002
08-44 § 103    10-21-2008  153.003
08-44 § 105    10-21-2008  153.004
08-44 § 201    10-21-2008  153.015
08-44 § 202    10-21-2008  153.016
08-44 § 203    10-21-2008  153.017
08-44 § 204    10-21-2008  153.018
08-44 § 205    10-21-2008  153.019
08-44 § 206(A) 10-21-2008  153.999
08-44 § 206(C) 10-21-2008  153.020
08-44 § 207    10-21-2008  153.021
08-44 § 208    10-21-2008  153.022
08-44 § 209    10-21-2008  153.023
08-44 § 301    10-21-2008  153.005
08-44 § 400    10-21-2008  153.035
08-44 § 410    10-21-2008  153.036
08-44 § 411    10-21-2008  153.037
08-44 § 412    10-21-2008  153.038
08-44 § 413    10-21-2008  153.039
08-44 § 414    10-21-2008  153.040
08-44 § 415    10-21-2008  153.041
08-44 § 420    10-21-2008  153.042
08-44 § 421    10-21-2008  153.043
08-44 § 422    10-21-2008  153.044
08-44 § 430    10-21-2008  153.045
08-44 § 431    10-21-2008  153.046
08-44 § 432    10-21-2008  153.047
08-44 § 440    10-21-2008  153.048
08-44 § 450    10-21-2008  153.049
08-44 § 460    10-21-2008  153.050
08-44 § 470    10-21-2008  153.051
08-44 § 500    10-21-2008  153.065
08-44 § 501    10-21-2008  153.066
08-44 § 504    10-21-2008  153.067
08-44 § 507    10-21-2008  153.068
08-44 § 516    10-21-2008  153.069
08-44 § 519    10-21-2008  153.070
08-44 § 522    10-21-2008  153.071
08-44 § 537    10-21-2008  153.075.5
08-44 § 528    10-21-2008  153.073
08-44 § 531    10-21-2008  153.074
08-44 § 534    10-21-2008  153.075
08-44 § 540    10-21-2008  153.076
08-44 § 543    10-21-2008  153.077
08-44 § 547    10-21-2008  153.080
08-44 § 549    10-21-2008  153.081
08-44 § 552    10-21-2008  153.082
08-44 § 555    10-21-2008  153.083
08-44 § 558    10-21-2008  153.084
08-44 § 561    10-21-2008  153.085
08-44 § 564    10-21-2008  153.086
08-44 § 567    10-21-2008  153.087
08-44 § 570    10-21-2008  153.088
08-44 § 573    10-21-2008  153.089
08-44 § 579    10-21-2008  153.090
08-44 § 582    10-21-2008  153.091
08-44 § 585    10-21-2008  153.092
08-44 § 588    10-21-2008  153.093
08-44 § 602(I) 10-21-2008  153.110
08-44 § 602(II)10-21-2008  153.111
08-44 § 603(A) 10-21-2008  153.150
08-44 § 603(B) 10-21-2008  153.151
08-44 § 603(D) 10-21-2008  153.153
08-44 § 604    10-21-2008  153.112
08-44 § 605(A) 10-21-2008  153.165
08-44 § 605(B) 10-21-2008  153.166
08-44 § 605(C) 10-21-2008  153.167
08-44 § 605(D) 10-21-2008  153.168
08-44 § 605(E) 10-21-2008  153.169
08-44 § 605(F) 10-21-2008  153.170
08-44 § 605(G) 10-21-2008  153.171
08-44 § 605(H) 10-21-2008  153.172
08-44 § 605(I) 10-21-2008  153.173
08-44 § 605(J) 10-21-2008  153.174
08-44 § 605(K) 10-21-2008  153.175
08-44 § 606(A) 10-21-2008  153.190
08-44 § 606(B) 10-21-2008  153.191
08-44 § 606(C) 10-21-2008  153.192
08-44 § 606(D) 10-21-2008  153.193
08-44 § 606(E) 10-21-2008  153.194
08-44 § 606(F) 10-21-2008  153.195
08-44 § 606(G) 10-21-2008  153.196
08-44 § 606(H) 10-21-2008  153.197
08-44 § 606(I) 10-21-2008  153.198
                            51.15 -
08-45           10-21-2008  51.20,
                            51.99
08-46           12-16-2008  153.215 –
                            153.227 
                            30.001,
                            30.015 –
                            30.019,
                            30.080 –
                            30.085,
09-49           4-7-2009    30.100 –
                            30.109,
                            31.15 –
                            31.19,
                            31.21 ,
                            31.22
09-50           4-21-2009   153.005,
                            153.035
                            152.01 -
09-51           4-21-2009   152.11,
                            152.99
09-52           5-19-2009   30.032
09-53           8-4-2009    51.15
09-54           8-4-2009    34.17,
                            Ch. 34 App. A
                            30.016,
09-56           9-8-2009    30.031,
                            30.083
09-57           10-6-2009   Adopting Ordinance
09-60           12-15-2009  153.021
10-65           3-16-2010   153.016
10-66           3-16-2010   34.15,
                            Ch. 34 App. A
10-67           4-20-2010   34.02
10-68           4-20-2010   34.01
10-70           7-6-2010    153.091
10-71           7-8-2010    31.19
10-72           8-17-2010   34.02
10-73           8-17-2010   Ch. 153 App. A
10-75           10-5-2010   31.26
10-76           11-30-2010  30.001,
                            30.030
10-77           10-5-2010   30.104,
                            30.105
10-79           12-7-2010   30.016
11-80           2-1-2011    153.086
11-81           3-15-2011   Ch. 153 App. A
11-82           3-22-2011   30.030
                            153.091,
11-83           4-19-2011   153.205 –
                            153.208
11-84           4-5-2011    30.030
11-85           5-17-2011   34.02
11-86           9-20-2011   34.17,
                            34.99
11-89           10-18-2011  30.105
12-90           2-7-2012    30.016
                            10.05,
12-91           6-12-2012   10.15,
                            30.018
                            31.22,
12-92           7-10-2012   34.01,
                            153.021
12-95           11-20-2012  50.16
                            30.015,
13-97           6-4-2013    30.042,
                            30.043,
                            30.045
13-98           8-20-2013   30.102
13-99           9-17-2013   30.018,
                            30.105
13-100          9-17-2013   30.031
13-101          10-1-2013   30.085
13-102          10-15-2013  30.030
14-105          5-6-2014    30.017
14-106          6-3-2014    30.015,
                            30.045
                            130.10 -
14-107          9-2-2014    130.15,
                            130.99
14-108          10-7-2014   Repealing 153.229
15-109          1-20-2015   30.031
                            153.005,
                            153.036 -
                            153.038,
                            153.041 -
15-110          4-7-2015    153.043,
                            153.048,
                            153.049,
                            153.066,
                            153.075.5
15-111          3-3-2015    30.109
                            152.02,
15-113          6-16-2015   152.03,
                            152.05
15-114          9-1-2015    30.107
15-115          9-1-2015    30.031
                            10.15,
15-116          9-15-2015   30.105,
                            30.106,
                            30.109
15-117          10-6-2015   30.044
15-119          12-15-2015  30.031
15-120          12-15-2015  30.085
15-121          12-15-2015  30.031
                            150.12,
16-123          1-19-2016   153.005,
                            153.024
                            90.01 -
                            90.04,
                            90.17 –
16-124          5-3-2016    90.19 ,
                            90.30,
                            90.98,
                            90.99
16-125          4-5-2016    30.105
16-126          4-5-2016    30.019
16-127          4-5-2016    31.17
16-128          4-5-2016    30.046
16-129          5-16-2016   33.01
16-131          11-15-2016  T.S.O. I
17-132          1-17-2017   153.021
17-133          3-21-2017   153.021
17-135          6-20-2017   31.17
17-138       9-19-2017   153.125 -
                            153.130
                            90.01 -
                            90.04,
17-140          9-19-2017   90.16 -
                            90.19,
                            90.30,
                            90.99
18-141          1-9-2018    30.101,
                            30.102
                            30.105,
18-142          10-16-2018  30.107,
                            30.108
19-144          2-5-2019    30.102
                            30.101,
19-145          6-4-2019    30.102,
                            30.104
19-146          9-3-2019    153.042
19-148          10-5-2019   30.109
20-150          1-21-2020   153.036,
                            153.086
                            30.031,
20-151          1-21-2020   30.100,
                            30.105
20-152          5-19-2020   Repealing 31.20, 31.23 - 31.25
20-154          9-15-2020   30.105
20-155          12-15-2020  153.043
20-156          12-15-2020  T.S.O. III
21-157          3-16-2021   153.209 -
                            153.214
21-158          1-19-2021   10.15
21-159          4-20-2021   150.01 -
                            150.11, Repealing 150.01 - 150.10
21-163          5-4-2021    31.17
21-167          6-15-2021   31.21
21-172          9-21-2021   30.105,
                            31.16
21-173          9-21-2021   30.108
22-181          6-21-2022   34.01
22-184          8-16-2022   T.S.O. III
22-187          11-1-2022   153.005
23-190          2-21-2023   34.17,
                            34.99
23-195          7-18-2023   30.105,
                            31.16
23-196          9-19-2023   31.21
24-203          2-20-2024   30.031
                           
 
REFERENCES TO POLICIES
 
Policy No. Date Passed Code Section
                      
a
