TOWN OF FREDONIA, ARIZONA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2022-003, passed 5-3-2022
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to chapters and sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; calculation of time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Conflicting provisions
   
10.18   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.19   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall
constitute and be designated “The Code of the Town of Fredonia, Arizona”, and
may be so cited. The code may also be cited as “The Fredonia Town Code” or
“this code”.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The rules and the definitions set forth in this chapter shall be
observed in the construction of this code and the ordinances of the town unless
the construction would be inconsistent with either the manifest intent of the
Council, the context of this code or the ordinances of the town.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required,
the same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. All words and phrases shall be construed and understood
according to the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words
and phrases and others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning
in the law shall be construed and understood according to the peculiar and
appropriate meaning.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, MUNICIPALITY or TOWN. The Town of Fredonia,
Arizona.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNCIL. The Council of the Town of Fredonia, Arizona.
      COUNTY. Coconino County, Arizona.
      DAY. The period of time between any midnight and the midnight following.
      DAYTIME. The period of time between sunrise and sunset.
      DEPARTMENT, BOARD, COMMISSION, OFFICE, OFFICER or EMPLOYEE. Whenever any
department, board, commission, office, officer or employee is referred to, it
shall mean a department, board, commission, office, officer or employee of the
town unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
      EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire, Police and Public Service
Departments and legally authorized ambulances and emergency vehicles of the
state, the county or any political subdivisions thereof, and vehicles of public
service corporations.
      EMERGENCY WORK. Any work performed to prevent or alleviate physical
trauma or property damage threatened or caused by an emergency, which has or
may result in a disruption of service, and which is necessary to protect the
health, safety and welfare of persons or property.
      IN THE TOWN or WITHIN THE TOWN. All territory over which the town now
has, or shall hereafter acquire, jurisdiction for the exercise of its police
powers or other regulatory powers.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words purporting to give a joint authority to three
or more town officers or other persons shall be construed as giving the
authority to a majority of the officers or other persons unless it shall be
otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority.
      MAJORITY. When used in reference to the Town Council, means 51% of those
members in attendance; provided that, a quorum of the Council is also present.
      MAY. The action referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Every self-propelled device in, upon or by which any
person or property is, or may be, transported upon a public highway, excepting
aircraft and devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
      NIGHTTIME. The period of time between sunset and sunrise.
      OATH. Includes affirmation or declaration.
      PERSON. Shall extend and be applied to firms, corporations or voluntary
associations, as well as to individuals, unless plainly inapplicable.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every species of property, except real
property as defined in this section.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. The words PRECEDING and FOLLOWING mean next
before and next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The action referred to is mandatory.
      SHALL HAVE BEEN. Includes past and future cases.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the signer cannot write,
the signer’s or subscriber’s name being written near the mark by a witness who
writes his or her own name near the signer’s or subscriber’s name; but a
signature or subscription by mark can be acknowledged or can serve as a
signature or subscription to a sworn statement only when two witnesses so sign
their own names thereto.
      STATE. The State of Arizona.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land shall include any
person holding a written or an oral lease or who occupies the whole or part of
the building or land, either alone or with others.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, except where otherwise provided.
Statutory reference:
   Definitions and construction of statutes generally, see A.R.S. §§ 1-211
through 1-215
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   And/or. “Or” may be read “and” and “and” may be read “or”, if the
context requires it.
   (B)   Acts by agents. When this code or an ordinance requires an act to be
done which may by law as well be done by an agent as by the principal, the
requirement shall be construed to include all acts when done by an authorized
agent.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses.
      (1)   Words of the masculine gender include the feminine; words in the
singular number include the plural, and words in the plural number include the
singular.
      (2)   The present tense includes the past and future tenses, and the
future includes the present.
   (D)   General terms. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Council that the titles,
chapters, subchapters, sections, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code
shall be severable; and, if any provision of this code is held unconstitutional
for any reason by a court of competent jurisdiction, the unconstitutionality
shall not affect any of the remaining provisions of the code.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO CHAPTERS AND SECTIONS.
   (A)   All references to chapters or sections are to the chapters and
sections of this code unless otherwise specified.
   (B)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within the town for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; CALCULATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done as provided in this code or
in any order issued pursuant to any ordinance, when expressed in days, shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last; except that, if the
last day is a Saturday, Sunday or holiday, it shall be excluded; and when the
time is expressed in hours, the whole of Saturday, Sunday or a holiday, from
midnight to midnight, shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code, except
as otherwise provided in §
10.14. However, all rights, duties and obligations created or imposed by the
repealed ordinances shall continue and exist in all respects as if this code
had not been adopted and enacted.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   The adoption and enactment of this code shall not be construed to repeal or
in any way to modify or affect:
   (A)   Any special ordinance or ordinances regarding franchises, annexations,
dedications or zoning;
   (B)   Any ordinance making an appropriation;
   (C)   Any ordinance affecting any bond issue or by which any bond issue may
have been authorized;
   (D)   The running of the statute of limitations in force at the time this
code becomes effective;
   (E)   The continued existence and operation of any department, agency,
commission or office heretofore legally established or held;
   (F)   Any bond of any public officer;
   (G)   Any taxes, fees, assessments or other charges incurred or imposed; and
   (H)   Any ordinances authorizing, ratifying, confirming, approving or
accepting any compact or contract with any other municipality, the state or any
county or subdivision thereof, or with the United States or any agency or
instrumentality thereof.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision shall
be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause or provision unless it shall be expressly so provided. The
repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred
before the repeal took effect nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending
at the time of the repeal for any offense committed under the ordinance
repealed.
§ 10.17 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If any provision of this code conflicts with any other provision of this
code, any other local legislation or any state or federal law, the provision
which is more stringent or restrictive in nature shall apply unless the context
clearly requires or indicates otherwise.
§ 10.18 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to the
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.19 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (A.R.S. § 9-240)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see A.R.S. § 39-121
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found responsible for violating any provisions of this
code, except as otherwise provided in this code, shall be responsible for a
civil code infraction and, upon a finding of responsibility therefor, may be
punished by a civil sanction not to exceed $500. Each day that a violation
continues shall be a separate offense punishable as herein provided.
      (1)   In addition to any monetary civil sanction, the Civil Hearing
Officer shall order the defendant to abate the civil code infraction, unless it
has been abated by the date of a finding of responsibility therefor.
      (2)   The Civil Hearing Officer shall have the authority, within his or
her discretion, to suspend the payment of any civil sanction imposed.
      (3)   In any case involving a civil code infraction relating to the
occupancy or use of land, any monetary civil sanction imposed pursuant to this
section upon a defendant who holds an ownership interest in the land shall be
recordable as a lien upon the land and shall run with the land. The town, at
its sole option, may record a notice of civil sanction and abatement order with
the County Recorder and thereby cause compliance by any person(s) or entity
thereafter acquiring the property. When the property is brought into compliance
by the owner or responsible party, a satisfaction of notice of civil sanction
and abatement order shall be filed at the request and expense of the owner or
responsible party. It shall be the property owner’s responsibility to secure
the satisfaction of notice of civil sanction and abatement order from the town.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this code which
is classified as a class 1 misdemeanor, upon conviction thereof, may be
punished by a fine not to exceed $2,500, by imprisonment for a period not to
exceed six months, by a term of probation not to exceed three years, or by any
combination of the fine, imprisonment and probation.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, any person found to
have violated any provision of this code or amendments thereto, which pursuant
to this section is classified as a civil code infraction, and who has been
twice previously found to have violated the provision within the preceding 24
months, shall, in addition to any penalty prescribed for the civil code
infraction, be guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine
not to exceed $2,500, by imprisonment for a period not to exceed six months, by
a term of probation not to exceed three years or by any combination of the
fine, imprisonment and probation.
Statutory reference:
   Maximum penalty for civil traffic violations, see A.R.S. § 28-1598
   Misdemeanor penalty authorized, see A.R.S. § 9-240(B)(28)(b)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND COUNCIL
      
31.   OFFICERS AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
      
33.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
34.   MAGISTRATE COURT
      
35.   TAX CODE
      
36.   TOWN POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND COUNCIL
Section
Mayor
   
30.001   Selection of Mayor
   
30.002   Vice Mayor
   
30.003   Acting Mayor
   
30.004   Powers and duties of the Mayor
   
30.005   Absence of Mayor
   
30.006   Failure to sign documents
Council
   
30.020   Elected officers
   
30.021   Corporate powers
   
30.022   Duties of office
   
30.023   Vacancies in Council
   
30.024   Compensation
   
30.025   Oath of office
   
30.026   Bond
   
30.027   Financial disclosure statements
Council Election
   
30.040   Primary election
   
30.041   Non-political ballot
   
30.042   General election nomination
   
30.043   Election to office
   
30.044   Candidate financial disclosure
Council Procedure
   
30.060   Regular meetings
   
30.061   Special meetings
   
30.062   Meetings to be public
   
30.063   Quorum
   
30.064   Agenda
   
30.065   Order of business
   
30.066   Committees and commissions
   
30.067   Voting
   
30.068   Suspension of rules
Ordinances, Resolutions and Contracts
   
30.080   Prior approval
   
30.081   Introduction
   
30.082   Same day passage prohibited
   
30.083   Two separate readings
   
30.084   Requirements for an ordinance
   
30.085   Effective date of ordinances
   
30.086   Signatures required
   
30.087   Publishing required
   
30.088   Posting required
Editor’s note:
   This chapter was revised 7- -1981.
MAYOR
§ 30.001 SELECTION OF MAYOR.
   (A)   Beginning with the election to be held on the second Tuesday November
of 2014, the Mayor of the town shall be directly elected by the qualified
electors of the town.
   (B)   The term of Office of the Mayor shall be four years.
(1974 Code, § 2-2-1) (Ord. 00-013, passed 4-11-2000; Ord. 13-006, passed 1-14-
2014)
§ 30.002 VICE MAYOR.
   (A)   At the same meeting at which the Mayor is selected, the Council shall
designate one of its members as Vice Mayor, who shall serve at the pleasure of
the Council.
   (B)   The Vice Mayor shall perform the duties of the Mayor during his or her
absence or disability.
(1974 Code, § 2-2-2)
§ 30.003 ACTING MAYOR.
   In the absence or disability of both the Mayor and Vice Mayor, the Council
may designate another of its members to serve as acting Mayor who shall have
all the powers, duties and responsibilities of the Mayor during the absence or
disability.
(1974 Code, § 2-2-3)
§ 30.004 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE MAYOR.
   The powers and duties of the Mayor shall include the following.
   (A)   He or she shall be the chief executive officer of the town.
   (B)   He or she shall be the Chairperson of the Council and preside over its
meetings. He or she may make and second motions and shall have a voice and vote
in all its proceedings.
   (C)   He or she shall enforce the provisions of this code.
   (D)   He or she shall execute and authenticate by his or her signature the
instruments as the Council, or any statutes, ordinances or this code, shall
require.
   (E)   He or she shall make recommendations and suggestions to the Council as
he or she may consider proper.
   (F)   He or she shall take command of the police force of the town and
govern by proclamation in the event of the threat of or occurrence of acts of
riot, rout or affray or natural disasters sufficient to constitute great danger
to the town and its residents.
      (1)   In the areas of the town as shall be designated by the Mayor by
proclamation under the conditions set forth in this section, and within the
area within all or any part of the town so designated by the Mayor, a curfew
shall be in effect the hours of each day designated in the proclamation, and
all persons living or residing within any designated area shall go immediately
to their homes, and remain there until the curfew is lifted by order of the
Mayor, and all other persons not residing within the designated area shall
immediately leave.
      (2)   During the imposition of any curfew as set forth in this section,
all business establishments in the designated curfew area having on their
premises intoxicating beverages shall be closed during the state of emergency
and until the curfew is lifted.
   (G)   He or she shall perform other duties required by state statute and
this code as well as those duties required as chief executive officer of the
town.
(1974 Code, § 2-2-4)
§ 30.005 ABSENCE OF MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall not absent himself or herself from the town for a greater
period than 15 days without the consent of the Council.
(1974 Code, § 2-2-5)
§ 30.006 FAILURE TO SIGN DOCUMENTS.
   If the Mayor refuses or fails to sign any ordinance, resolution, contract,
warrant, demand or other document or instrument requiring his or her signature
for five days consecutively, then a majority of the members of the Council may,
at any regular or special meeting, authorize the Vice Mayor, or in his or her
absence, an acting Mayor, to sign the ordinance, resolution, contract, warrant,
demand or other document or instrument which when so signed shall have the same
force and effect as if signed by the Mayor.
(1974 Code, § 2-2-6)
COUNCIL
§ 30.020 ELECTED OFFICERS.
   Beginning with the election to be held on the second Tuesday in November
2012, all Council members will be elected on a staggered schedule as described
in Resolution 13-005 dated November 12, 2013. Thereafter, Town Council members
shall be elected in the same staggered schedule at successive regular elections
and then hold office for terms of four years each plus any additional time
necessary until their successors are elected and qualified.
(1974 Code, § 2-1-1) (Ord. 00-013, passed 4-11-2000; Ord. 13-006, passed 1-14-
2014)
§ 30.021 CORPORATE POWERS.
   (A)   The corporate powers of the town shall be vested in the Council and
shall be exercised only as directed or authorized by law.
   (B)   All powers of the Council shall be exercised by ordinance, resolution,
order or motion.
(1974 Code, § 2-1-2)
§ 30.022 DUTIES OF OFFICE.
   Council members shall assume the duties of office at the regularly scheduled
Council meeting next following the date of the general election at which, or
effective as of the date of which, the Council members were elected.
(1974 Code, § 2-1-3)
§ 30.023 VACANCIES IN COUNCIL.
   The Council shall fill by appointment for the unexpired term any vacancy
that may occur for whatever reason.
(1974 Code, § 2-1-4)
§ 30.024 COMPENSATION.
   The compensation of elective officers of the town shall be fixed from time
to time by resolution of the Council; provided that, the compensation allowed
to the Mayor and Council members shall not exceed that allowed by state
statutes.
(1974 Code, § 2-1-5)
§ 30.025 OATH OF OFFICE.
   Immediately prior to assumption of the duties of office, each Council member
shall, in public, take and subscribe to the oath of office.
(1974 Code, § 2-1-6)
§ 30.026 BOND.
   (A)   Prior to taking office, every Council member shall execute and file an
official bond, enforceable against the principal and his or her sureties,
conditioned on the due and faithful performance of his or her official duties,
payable to the state and to and for the use and benefit of the town or any
person who may be injured or aggrieved by the wrongful act or default of the
officer in his or her official capacity.
   (B)   A person so injured or aggrieved may bring suit on the bond under
provisions identical to those contained in A.R.S. § 38-260.
   (C)   Bonds shall be in a sum as shall be provided by resolution and the
premium for the bonds shall be paid by the town.
(1974 Code, § 2-1-7)
§ 30.027 FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE STATEMENTS.
   The Mayor and each member of the Council shall file by January 31 of each
year on a form prescribed by the Clerk, a financial disclosure statement
setting forth the information as determined by resolution of the Council.
(1974 Code, § 2-1-8)
COUNCIL ELECTION
§ 30.040 PRIMARY ELECTION.
   Any candidate who shall receive at the primary election a majority of all
the votes cast shall be declared to be elected to the office for which he or
she is a candidate effective as of the date of the general election, and no
further election shall be held as to the candidate.
(1974 Code, § 2-3-1)
§ 30.041 NON-POLITICAL BALLOT.
   Nothing on the ballot in any election shall be indicative of the support of
the candidate and names on the ballot shall be rotated as provided in state
law.
(1974 Code, § 2-3-2)
§ 30.042 GENERAL ELECTION NOMINATION.
   (A)   If, at any primary election held as above provided, there be any
office or offices for which no candidate is elected, then as to the office or
offices, the election shall be considered to be a primary election for
nomination of candidates for the office or offices, and the second or general
municipal election shall be held to vote for candidates to fill the office or
offices.
   (B)   Candidates to be placed on the ballot at the second or general
municipal election shall be those not elected at the first election, shall be
equal in number to twice the number to be elected to any given office or less
than that number if there be less than that number named on the primary
election ballot, and persons who receive the highest number of votes for the
respective offices at the first election shall be the only candidates at the
second election; provided that, if there be any person who, under the
provisions of this subchapter, would have been entitled to become a candidate
for any office, except for the fact that some other candidate received an equal
number of votes therefor, then all persons receiving an equal number of votes
shall likewise become candidates for the office.
(1974 Code, § 2-3-3)
§ 30.043 ELECTION TO OFFICE.
   The candidates equal in number to the persons to be elected who receive the
highest number of votes shall be declared elected.
(1974 Code, § 2-3-4)
§ 30.044 CANDIDATE FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   Each candidate for the Office of Council member shall file a financial
disclosure statement on a form prescribed by the Clerk when the candidate files
a nomination paper.
   (B)   The statement shall contain information as required by resolution of
the Council.
(1974 Code, § 2-3-5)
COUNCIL PROCEDURE
§ 30.060 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Council shall hold regular meetings on the first and third
Tuesdays of each month at 7:30 p.m.; provided that, when the day fixed for any
regular meeting of the Council falls upon a date designated by law as a legal
holiday, the meeting shall be held at the same hour on the next succeeding day
not a holiday.
   (B)   All regular meetings of the Council shall be held in the town hall.
(1974 Code, § 2-4-1)
§ 30.061 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Mayor, or the Clerk upon the written request of three members, may
convene the Council at any time after giving at least 24 hours’ notice of the
meeting to members of the Council and the general public.
   (B)   The notice shall include the date, hour and purpose of the special
meeting.
   (C)   In the case of an actual emergency, a meeting may be held upon the
notice as is appropriate to the circumstances.
(1974 Code, § 2-4-2)
§ 30.062 MEETINGS TO BE PUBLIC.
   (A)   All official meetings of the Council at which any legal action is
taken shall be open to the public. Notice of meetings shall be given in a
manner consistent with state statutes. Upon approval by a majority vote of the
Council, the Council may meet in a closed executive session for a discussion of
the following:
      (1)   Consideration of employment, assignment, appointment, promotion,
demotion, salaries, disciplining or resignation of a public officer, appointee
or employee of the town; except that, with the exception of salary discussions,
an officer, appointee or employee may demand that the discussion or
consideration occur at a public meeting;
      (2)   Consideration of records exempt by law from public inspection;
      (3)   Consultation for advice with the Town Attorney; and
      (4)   Consultations with representatives of employee organizations
regarding the salaries, salary schedules or compensation paid in the form of
fringe benefits of employees in order to review its position and instruct its
designated representatives.
   (B)   Minutes of executive sessions shall be kept confidential, except from
members of the Council.
   (C)   No executive session may be held for the purpose of taking any final
action or making any final decision.
(1974 Code, § 2-4-3)
§ 30.063 QUORUM.
   (A)   A majority of the Council members shall constitute a quorum for
transacting business, but a lesser number may adjourn from time to time and
compel the attendance of absent members.
   (B)   Any Council member failing to appear as provided in the preceding
section, after due service of notice upon him or her, without satisfactory
excuse, shall, upon motion and order of the Mayor, be fined the sum of $10.
(1974 Code, § 2-4-4)
§ 30.064 AGENDA.
   Prior to each Council meeting, or on or before a time fixed by the Council
for preparation and distribution of an agenda, whichever is earlier, the Clerk
shall collect all written reports, communications, ordinances, resolutions,
contracts and other documents to be submitted to the Council, and prepare an
agenda according to the order of business and shall furnish each Council
member, the Mayor and the Attorney with a copy.
(1974 Code, § 2-4-5)
§ 30.065 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The business of the Council shall be taken up for consideration and
disposition in the following order.
   (A)   Call to order. The Mayor shall take the chair precisely at the hour
appointed for the meeting and shall immediately call the Council to order. In
the absence of the Mayor, the Vice Mayor shall call the Council to order. In
the absence of both the Mayor and Vice Mayor, the Clerk shall call the Council
to order and an acting Mayor shall be selected to chair the meeting. Upon the
arrival of the Mayor or the Vice Mayor, the Vice Mayor or the acting Mayor
shall immediately relinquish the chair upon the conclusion of the business
immediately before the Council. The Mayor shall preserve order and decorum,
decide all questions of order and conduct the proceedings of the meetings in
accordance with the parliamentary rules contained in Robert’s Rules of Order.
   (B)   Roll call. Before proceeding with the business of the Council, the
Clerk or his or her deputy shall call the roll of the members, and the names of
those present shall be entered in the minutes. If a quorum is not present, the
members present may adjourn pursuant to §
30.063.
   (C)   Minutes. The Clerk or his or her deputy shall read or present the
minutes of the preceding Council meeting, which shall be approved if correct.
Any errors noted shall be corrected.
   (D)   Petitions.
      (1)   Petitions, remonstrances, communications and comments or
suggestions from citizens present shall be heard by the Council.
      (2)   All remarks shall be addressed to the Council as a whole, and not
to any member thereof.
      (3)   The remarks shall be limited to ten minutes, unless additional time
is granted by the Council.
      (4)   No person other than the individual speaking shall enter into the
discussion without the permission of the presiding officer.
      (5)   No question shall be asked a Council member, except through the
presiding officer.
   (E)   Reports by officers. Town officials and committees shall present any
reports required by the Council.
   (F)   Unfinished business. The Council shall consider any business that has
been previously considered and which is still unfinished.
   (G)   New business. The Council shall consider any business not heretofore
considered, including the introduction of ordinances and resolutions.
   (H)   Claims. The Clerk shall present any claims against the town, which
will then be approved or disapproved by the Council.
   (I)   Miscellaneous business. Prior to adjournment, the Council shall, as it
deems necessary, consider business as is not specifically provided for herein.
   (J)   Adjournment. The Council may, by a majority vote of those present,
adjourn from time to time to a specific date and hour. A motion to adjourn
shall always be in order and decided without debate.
(1974 Code, § 2-4-6)
§ 30.066 COMMITTEES AND COMMISSIONS.
   (A)   The Council may create committees and commissions, standing or
special, as it deems necessary.
   (B)   They shall consist of as many members and shall perform duties as the
Council may require and shall exist at the pleasure of the Council.
(1974 Code, § 2-4-7)
§ 30.067 VOTING.
   (A)   The Mayor shall vote as a member of the Council.
   (B)   Upon the request of any member, the ayes and nays upon any question
shall be taken and entered in the minutes.
(1974 Code, § 2-4-8)
§ 30.068 SUSPENSION OF RULES.
   Any of the provisions of this subchapter may be temporarily suspended in
connection with any matter under consideration by a recorded vote of three-
fourths of the members present; except that, this section shall not be
construed to permit any action that is contrary to state statutes.
(1974 Code, § 2-4-9)
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND CONTRACTS
§ 30.080 PRIOR APPROVAL.
   All ordinances, resolutions and contract documents shall, before
presentation to the Council, have been reviewed as to form by the Attorney, and
shall, when there are substantive matters of administration involved, be
referred to the person who is charged with the administration of the matters.
The person shall have an opportunity to present his or her objections, if any,
prior to the passage of the ordinance, resolution or acceptance of the
contract.
(1974 Code, § 2-5-1)
§ 30.081 INTRODUCTION.
   Ordinances, resolutions and other matters or subjects requiring action by
the Council shall be introduced and sponsored by a member of the Council;
except that, the Attorney, Town Manager or the Clerk may present ordinances,
resolutions and other matters or subjects to the Council, and any Council man
may assume sponsorship thereof by moving that the ordinance, resolution, matter
or subject be adopted; otherwise, they shall not be considered.
(1974 Code, § 2-5-2)
§ 30.082 SAME DAY PASSAGE PROHIBITED.
   No ordinance, except emergency ordinances, shall be put on its final passage
on the same day on which it was introduced.
(1974 Code, § 2-5-3)
§ 30.083 TWO SEPARATE READINGS.
   All ordinances, except emergency ordinances, shall have two separate
readings, but the first and the second reading shall never be made on the same
day. The first reading may be by title only, but the second reading shall be in
full, unless the Council, in possession of printed copies of the ordinance,
shall unanimously allow reading by title only.
(1974 Code, § 2-5-4)
§ 30.084 REQUIREMENTS FOR AN ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Each ordinance should have but one subject, the nature of which is
clearly expressed in the title.
   (B)   Whenever possible, each ordinance shall be introduced as an amendment
to this code or to an existing ordinance and, in that case, the title of the
sections to be amended shall be included in the ordinance.
(1974 Code, § 2-5-5)
§ 30.085 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   No ordinance, resolution or franchise shall become operative until 30 days
after its passage by the Council and approval by the Mayor, except measures
necessary for the immediate preservation of the peace, health or safety of the
town, but an emergency measure shall not become immediately operative unless it
states in a separate section the reason why it is necessary that it should
become immediately operative, and unless it is approved by the affirmative vote
of three-fourths of all the members elected to the Council, taken by ayes and
nays.
(1974 Code, § 2-5-6)
§ 30.086 SIGNATURES REQUIRED.
   Every ordinance passed by the Council shall, before it becomes effective, be
signed by the Mayor and attested by the Clerk.
(1974 Code, § 2-5-7)
§ 30.087 PUBLISHING REQUIRED.
   Only orders, resolutions, motions, regulations or proceedings of the Council
shall be published as may be required by state statutes or expressly ordered by
the Council.
(1974 Code, § 2-5-8)
§ 30.088 POSTING REQUIRED.
   Every ordinance imposing any penalty, fine, forfeiture or other punishment
shall, after passage, be posted by the Clerk in three or more public places
within the town and an affidavit of the person who posted the ordinances shall
be filed in the office of the Clerk as proof of posting.
(1974 Code, § 2-5-9)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICERS AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Officers in General
   
31.01   Officers
   
31.02   Treasurer, Assessor and Collector of Taxes
   
31.03   Additional officers
   
31.04   Bond
   
31.05   Vacancies; holding more than one office
   
31.06   Officers, cash books, receipts
   
31.07   Additional powers and duties
Officers
   
31.20   Town Manager
   
31.21   Town Clerk
   
31.22   Town Marshal
   
31.23   Town Engineer
   
31.24   Town Attorney
Code of Conduct for Organizations
   
31.35   Improper conduct
   
31.36   Conflict of interest
   
31.37   Investigative suspensions
   
31.38   Resignations
Cross-reference:
   Magistrate, see §
34.02
   Mayor and Council, see
Ch. 30
   Police and Fire Departments, see
Ch. 32
   Public Works, see Title V
   Subdivisions, see
Ch. 152
   Zoning, see
Ch. 153
Editor’s note:
   This chapter was revised 1- -1980.
OFFICERS IN GENERAL
§ 31.01 OFFICERS.
   There are hereby created the Offices of Town Manager, Town Clerk, Town
Marshal, Town Engineer, Town Attorney and Town Magistrate, who shall be
appointed by the Council and who shall serve at the pleasure of the Council.
(1974 Code, § 3-1-1)
§ 31.02 TREASURER, ASSESSOR AND COLLECTOR OF TAXES.
   The Town Clerk shall act as Treasurer, Assessor and Collector of Taxes.
(1974 Code, § 3-1-2)
§ 31.03 ADDITIONAL OFFICERS.
   The Council may appoint and remove from time to time other officers as it
may deem necessary and that are not provided for in this code or state statute.
(1974 Code, § 3-1-3)
§ 31.04 BOND.
   (A)   The Council shall require each officer of the town to give bond for
the due discharge of his or her duties in sums and with the security as it may
direct and approve as determined by resolution and the town shall pay the costs
of the bond.
   (B)   A failure on the part of any elective or appointive officer, to file
the bond required by this subchapter, for a period of 30 days after receiving
notice of the election or appointment, shall operate to cause a vacancy in the
office.
(1974 Code, § 3-1-4)
§ 31.05 VACANCIES; HOLDING MORE THAN ONE OFFICE.
   (A)   Any vacancy that shall occur in any town office shall be filled by
appointment by the Council.
   (B)   Provided that, one person may hold more than one office and that, at
the discretion of the Council, the functions of a town official may be validly
performed and discharged by a deputy or another town official, or an otherwise
qualified individual not holding office, but employed at the pleasure of the
Council.
(1974 Code, § 3-1-5)
§ 31.06 OFFICERS, CASH BOOKS, RECEIPTS.
   (A)   All elective and appointive officers shall be strictly accountable for
all fees and moneys collected by or paid to them or to any deputy or assistant
in their respective departments.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every officer who is authorized to receive any
fees for official services of himself or herself or his or her deputies or
assistants, or of any officer or his or her deputies or assistants who are
authorized to make any collections to keep a cash book in which shall be
entered an exact and full account in detail of all fees, commissions,
compensations or collections of whatever nature or kind with the date
collected, the name of the payer and the nature of the collection in each case.
   (C)   All blank receipts, permits, certificates of license or other blank
forms and tags and metallic plates which are intended to facilitate or place a
check upon the collection of the revenue shall be subject to the approval of
the Clerk and shall be provided by him or her as directed by the Council and
remain in his or her custody for issuance as may be required.
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk shall deliver the blank receipts, permits,
certificates of license or other blank forms and tags and metallic plates to
the proper officers as may be required and shall take receipts therefor.
      (2)   All officers shall be accountable to the Clerk, as hereinafter
provided, for the blank receipts and other forms and tags and metallic plates.
   (E)   (1)   Receipts in triplicate shall be issued on forms provided by the
Clerk for all fees and moneys collected by or paid to any officer, deputy or
assistant.
      (2)   The original receipt shall in all cases be given to the person
making payment and the duplicates shall, at the close of each day’s business,
be filed with the Clerk and the triplicate shall be retained by the officer
issuing the receipt.
(1974 Code, § 3-1-6)
§ 31.07 ADDITIONAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   In addition to any powers, and duties prescribed in this code, each officer
shall have further powers, perform further duties, and hold other office as may
be provided by the Council through ordinance, resolution or order.
(1974 Code, § 3-1-7)
OFFICERS
§ 31.20 TOWN MANAGER.
   (A)   Office created. The Office of the Town Manager is hereby created and
established. The Town Manager shall be appointed by the Council wholly on the
basis of his or her administrative and executive ability and qualifications and
shall hold office for and at the pleasure of the Council.
   (B)   Bond. The Town Manager shall furnish a corporate surety bond to be
approved by the Council in such sum as may be determined by the Council, and
shall be conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties imposed upon
the Manager, as herein prescribed. Any premium for the bond shall be a proper
charge against the town.
   (C)   Compensation. The Town Manager shall receive compensation as the
Council shall fix from time to time.
   (D)   Removal procedure. The Manager may be removed by a majority vote of
the Council. If requested, the Council shall grant him or her a public hearing
within 30 days following notice of removal. During the interim the Council may
suspend the Manager from duty, but shall continue his or her salary and, if the
removal becomes final, shall pay his or her salary for one month following the
removal date.
   (E)   Powers and duties. The Town Manager shall be the administrative head
of the government of the town under the direction and control of the Council,
except as otherwise provided in this chapter. He or she shall be responsible to
the Council for the proper administration of all affairs of the town. In
addition to his or her general powers as administrative head and not as a
limitation thereon, it shall be his or her duty and he or she shall have the
powers set forth in the following divisions:
      (1)   Appoint, and, when necessary for the good of the service, suspend
or remove all officers and employees of the town not appointed by the Council.
He or she may, for department or office heads that do not report directly to
the Council, authorize the head of a department or office to appoint, suspend
or remove subordinates in the department or office;
      (2)   Prepare the budget annually and submit it to the Council together
with a message describing the important features and be responsible for its
administration after adoption;
      (3)   Prepare and submit to the Council at the end of the fiscal year a
complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the town the
preceding year;
      (4)   Keep the Council advised of the financial condition and future
needs of the town, and make recommendations as he or she may deem desirable;
      (5)   Recommend to the governing body a standard schedule of pay for each
appointive office and position in the town service, including minimum,
intermediate and maximum rates. Authorize the payment of overtime pay for
employees as may work in excess of a normal work period in a department where
the department head does not report directly to the Council. The rates of pay
and periods of work shall be in conformity with wages and salaries enacted by
the Town Council;
      (6)   Recommend to the governing body from time to time adoption of
measures as he or she may deem necessary or expedient for the health, safety or
welfare of the community or for the improvement of administrative services;
      (7)   Consolidate or combine offices, positions, departments or units
under his or her jurisdiction where the department head does not report
directly to Council with the approval of the Council. The Manager may be the
head of one or more departments where the department head does not report
directly to the Council;
      (8)   Attend all meetings of the Council unless excused therefrom, and
take part in the discussion of all matters coming before the Council. He or she
shall be entitled to notice of all regular and special meetings of the Council;
      (9)   Supervise the purchase of all materials, supplies and equipment for
which funds are provided in the budget; let contracts necessary for operation
or maintenance of town services for amounts up to and including $1,000, receive
sealed bids for purchases or contracts in excess of $1,000 and present them to
the Council for approval, and advise the Council on the advantages or
disadvantages of contract and bid proposals. No contract in excess of $1,000
and no contract for new construction shall be let, except by the Council. By
unanimous vote of the Council, the Council may make purchases or let contract
not to exceed $25,000 without receiving formal bids thereon. The Manager is
authorized to approve purchases between $500 and $1,000 that are not otherwise
approved by department heads, without Council approval. The Manager will no
longer approve purchases approved by department heads up to $5,000 as such
department heads will be authorized to make such approvals themselves with any
department head approvals for more than $5,000 not be submitted to the Manager,
but submitted by the department heads directly to the Council for approval;
      (10)   In case of accident, disaster or other circumstances creating a
public emergency, the Manager may award contracts and make purchases for the
purpose of meeting the emergency; but he or she shall file promptly with the
Council a certificate showing the emergency and the necessity for the action,
together with an itemized account of all expenditures;
      (11)   See that all laws and ordinances are duly enforced;
      (12)   Investigate the affairs of the town or any department or division
thereof where the department or office head does not report directly to the
Council;
      (13)   Investigate all complaints in relation to matters concerning the
administration of the government of the town and in regard to service
maintained by the public utilities in the town, and see that all franchises,
permits and privileges granted by the town are faithfully observed; and
      (14)   Perform other duties as may be required by the Council, not
inconsistent with state law or town ordinances.
   (F)   Council not to interfere with appointments or removals. With regard to
officers and employees appointed by the Manager, neither the Council nor any of
its members shall direct or request the appointment of any person to, or his or
her removal or suspension from, the office by the Manager or any of his or her
subordinates, or in any manner take part in the appointment or removal of the
officers and employees in the administrative services of the town. Except for
the purpose of inquiry, the Council and its members shall deal with the
administrative service solely through the Manager.
   (G)   Council-Manager relations. The Council and its members shall deal with
the administrative services of the town only through the Manager, except for
the purpose of inquiry, and neither the Council, nor any member thereof, shall
give orders or instructions to any subordinates of the Manager. The Manager
shall take his or her orders and instructions from the Council only when
sitting in a duly convened meeting of the Council and no individual Council
member shall give any orders or instructions to the Manager.
   (H)   Departmental cooperation. It shall be the duty of the Clerk and
Attorney to assist the Manager in administering the affairs of the town
efficiently, economically and harmoniously.
   (I)   Attendance at Commission meetings. The Manager may attend any and all
meetings of the Planning and Zoning Commission, and all other commissions,
boards or committees created by the Council, upon his or her own volition or
upon direction of the Council. At the meetings which the Manager attends, he or
she shall be heard by the Commission, boards or committees as to all matters
upon which he or she wished to address the members thereof, and he or she shall
inform the members as to the status of any matter being considered by the
Council, and he or she shall cooperate to the fullest extent with the members
of all commissions, boards or committees appointed by the Council.
   (J)   Resignation of Manager. The Manager shall provide the Council a
minimum of two months’ written notice of intention to resign his or her
position.
   (K)   Employment agreements. Nothing in this section shall be construed as a
limitation on the power or authority of the Council to enter into any
supplemental agreement with the Manager delineating additional terms and
conditions of employment not inconsistent with any provisions of this section.
(1974 Code, § 3-2-1) (Ord. 17, passed - -; Ord. 13-002, passed 11-12-2013; Ord.
2022-002, passed 5-3-2022)
§ 31.21 TOWN CLERK.
   (A)   Records. The Clerk shall keep a true and correct record of all
business transacted by the Council and any other records that either pertain to
the business of the town or that the Council directs. The Clerk shall number,
plainly label and file separately in a suitable cabinet all resolutions,
notices, deeds, surveys, leases, paid and unpaid vouchers, inventories,
letters, orders and other documents of whatever nature.
   (B)   Public inspection of records. The Clerk shall keep convenient for
public inspection all public records and public documents under his or her
control, as provided by state statute.
   (C)   Minutes. The Clerk shall prepare or cause to be prepared all minutes
of Council proceedings and ensure their correctness and accuracy.
   (D)   Ordinances, resolutions, budgets and notices. The Clerk shall process,
record, file, publish and, if required by state statute, post all ordinances,
resolutions, budgets and notices that may be passed by the Council.
   (E)   Duties as Treasurer. The Clerk shall hold the Office of Town Treasurer
and receive and safely keep all moneys that shall come to the town and pay out
the same when authorized by the Council. He or she shall keep a separate record
and account of each different fund provided by the Council, apportion the
moneys received among the different funds as prescribed by the Council and keep
a complete set of books showing: every money transaction of the town, the state
of each fund, from what source the money in each fund was derived and for what
purpose expended; and, he or she shall make monthly reports to the Council of
all receipts and disbursements and the balance in each fund. At the end of the
fiscal year, he or she shall make a full and detailed statement of the receipts
and expenditures of the town during the year, specifying the different sources
of revenue and the amount received from each, all appropriations made by the
Mayor and Council, and the object for which they were made, and the amount of
money expended under each, the evidences of indebtedness issued and what
portion remains thereof outstanding, with the rate and amount of interest due
thereon, and the amount of cash on hand.
   (F)   Election official. The Clerk shall be the town election official and
perform those duties required by state statute.
   (G)   Licenses. The Clerk shall issue or cause to be issued all licenses
that may be prescribed by state statute or this code.
   (H)   Administrative duties. The Clerk shall perform those administrative
responsibilities and duties that are conferred upon him or her by the Town
Council in addition to those specified in this code.
   (I)   Appointment; removal. The Town Clerk shall be appointed by and report
directly to the Council while working in cooperation with the Town Manager
overall. The Town Clerk may be removed by a majority vote of the Council. If
requested, the Council shall grant him or her a public hearing within 30 days
following notice of removal.
(1974 Code, § 3-2-2) (Ord. 2022-002, passed 5-3-2022)
§ 31.22 TOWN MARSHAL.
   (A)   Office established. The Office of the Town Marshal is hereby created
and established. The Town Marshal shall be appointed by the Town Council, shall
report directly to the Town Council, and shall perform duties as may be
required of him or her by law and as the Council may deem necessary. He or she
shall be the Chief of Police and shall be collector of all taxes of the town;
provided that the collection of the taxes may be administered by the Town
Clerk.
   (B)   Compensation. The Town Marshal shall receive compensation as the
Council shall fix from time to time.
   (C)   Removal procedure. The Town Marshal may be removed by a majority vote
of the Council. If requested, the Council shall grant him or her a public
hearing within 30 days following notice of removal.
   (D)   Administrative responsibilities. The Town Marshal shall be the chief
administrative officer of the Police Department and shall be responsible for
all of his or her acts to the Town Council. He or she shall be responsible for
the enforcement of all laws and ordinances of the state and the town and the
regulations governing the Police Department. He or she shall issue orders as he
or she shall deem proper; the orders to be written or printed. He or she may,
however, issue temporary verbal orders as may be necessary. He or she shall be
responsible for planning and shall control all employees of the Police
Department in the lawful exercise of their duties. He or she may assign any
officer to public service as he or she may direct. No interdepartmental
transfer of employees shall be made with the Police Department without his or
her specific approval. He or she may suspend temporarily any employee of the
Police Department pursuant to the rules and regulations of the town. In each
case of suspension, he or she shall immediately make a complete report of the
circumstances to the Town Council.
   (E)   Rules and regulations. The Town Marshal may prescribe rules and
regulations as may be necessary for the efficient operation of the Police
Department. He or she shall have the authority to revise the police manual
subject to the approval of the Town Council.
   (F)   Control of police property. He or she shall have custody of all the
property of the town in use by the Police Department and shall be responsible
for its safety and care. He or she shall permit none of it to be used for
private purposes or to be loaned or to be moved without proper authority.
   (G)   Maintenance of efficiency. He or she shall devote his or her full time
to police work. He or she shall see that all court orders and processes issued
by the City Magistrate are promptly executed. He or she shall maintain and
enforce law and discipline so as to secure efficiency within the Department.
   (H)   Instruction and inspection. The Town Marshal shall instruct his or her
supervising officers in all phases of their duties and shall inspect or cause
to be inspected, all officers on duty and shall note any appearance of neglect,
carelessness or improper performance of duty.
   (I)   Charges. He or she shall cooperate with and aid the Town Council in
administering the merit system by filing complete reports of the records of
credits, suspensions or charges against members of the Department.
   (J)   Meetings. He or she shall attend meetings of the Town Council when
requested by the Town Council through the Mayor.
   (K)   Direction. The Town Marshal shall officially sanction and approve any
changes in Police Department organization after approval by the Town Council.
He or she shall be responsible for the proper disposition of all prisoners and
shall have the authority to release arrested persons who have not been formally
charged or to change the informal charges under which they are held when he or
she has sufficient facts or evidence to warrant such action.
   (L)   Absence from town. The Town Marshal shall not absent himself or
herself from the area of the town without first obtaining consent from the Town
Council. In the absence of the Town Marshal, the Town Marshal shall designate
an acting Town Marshal to serve in his or her absence, subject to approval of
Town Council.
   (M)   Training and personnel. He or she shall implement and maintain an in-
service training program for all officers and a training program for recruits
and reserve officers. He or she shall, as often as he or she considers
necessary, cause the officers of the Department to engage in firearms practice.
   (N)   Resignation. The Town Marshal shall provide the Council a minimum of
30 days written notice of intention to resign his or her position.
(1974 Code, § 3-2-3) (Ord. 2022-002, passed 5-3-2022)
§ 31.23 TOWN ENGINEER.
   The Engineer shall have charge of the town streets, sewers and waterworks
and shall perform duties as may be required of him or her by law and other
duties as the Council may deem necessary.
(1974 Code, § 3-2-4)
§ 31.24 TOWN ATTORNEY.
   The Attorney shall act as the legal counselor and advisor of the Council and
other town officials, and as such shall give his or her opinion in writing when
requested. He or she shall draft all deeds, contracts, conveyances, ordinances,
resolutions and other legal instruments when required by the Council. He or she
shall approve as to form, in writing, all drafts of contracts and all official
or other bonds before final approval or acceptance thereof by the Council. He
or she shall return, within 20 days, all ordinances and resolutions submitted
to him or her for consideration by the Council, without approval or disapproval
as to form noted thereon, together with his or her reasons therefor. He or she
shall prosecute and defend all suits, actions or causes where the town is a
party, and shall report to the Council, when required, the condition of any
suit or action to which the town is a party.
(1974 Code, § 3-2-5)
CODE OF CONDUCT FOR ORGANIZATIONS
§ 31.35 IMPROPER CONDUCT.
   (A)   The term IMPROPER CONDUCT means any actions as outlined below that
would detract from the appropriate use of the boards/commissions/committee (B/
C/C) member’s position for his or her personal advantage.
   (B)   Improper conduct includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Infrequent attendance. B/C/C members missing two or more scheduled
meetings without notifying the B/C/C president in advance;
      (2)   Acceptance of gifts and favors. Acceptance of any pay or gift in
excess of monetary value of $10, or compensation in the form of service loans
or promises, from any individual or group directly or indirectly involved in
business dealings with the town;
      (3)   Sabotage. Willful destruction of town property or willful thwarting
of a Town Council policy;
      (4)   False statements. Making a false or malicious statement which harms
or destroys the reputation, authority or official standing of any town
official, employee or department;
      (5)   Malicious statements. Making false or malicious statement which
harms or destroys the reputation, authority or official standing of any town
official, employee or department;
      (6)   Falsification. The falsification of official records such as
minutes of meetings or other B/C/C documents;
      (7)   Insubordination. Once consensus is achieved, or a vote is taken
within the duly called B/C/C meeting, a member deliberately refuses to abide by
that decision;
      (8)   Use of public property. Using, permitting the use of or
unauthorized use of vehicles, equipment, materials or property belonging to the
town for personal convenience of profit. The willful damage to or negligence in
the care and handling of town property;
      (9)   Abusive conduct or threatening of B/C/C members or the public.
Offensive or abusive conduct or language toward the public or another B/C/
C member, or threatening, intimidating, coercing or interfering with any B/C/
C member or the public at large;
      (10)   Theft. Theft, bribery or unauthorized use or possession of town
property. This includes unauthorized use of town vehicles;
      (11)   Solicitation of public for money, goods or services. Solicitation
of the public for money, goods or services not specifically authorized by the
Town Council while in an official capacity as a B/C/C member;
      (12)   Return of town materials and B/C/C records. Failure to return all
materials and supplies owned by the town, and all financial records and records
of minutes that were part of the B/C/C members’ responsibility to the B/C/
C president; and
      (13)   Conviction of felony. Conviction of a felony which in the Town
Council’s judgment would render the person unfit to perform on that, or any
other B/C/C.
(Ord. 05-002, passed 10-11-2005)
§ 31.36 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   No B/C/C member shall engage in any business or transaction or shall have a
financial or other personal interest, direct or indirect, which is incompatible
with the proper discharge of his or her official duties or would tend to impair
his or her independence, judgment or action in the performance of his or her
official duties. Personal, as distinguished from financial, interest included
an interest arising from blood or marriage relationship or close business or
political association.
(Ord. 05-002, passed 10-11-2005)
§ 31.37 INVESTIGATIVE SUSPENSIONS.
   Should it be necessary to investigate any B/C/C member regarding the
violation of this subchapter, the individual will be placed in a non-voting
status on the B/C/C until an investigation is completed.
(Ord. 05-002, passed 10-11-2005)
§ 31.38 RESIGNATIONS.
   Any B/C/C member may resign from the town service by contacting the
respective B/C/C president of the B/C/C on which he or she serves, and by
returning all items and materials belonging to the town. A written resignation
is appreciated so that it can be forwarded to the Town Clerk and entered into
the records.
(Ord. 05-002, passed 10-11-2005)
CHAPTER 32: POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Adoption of Uniform Fire Code
   
32.02   Municipal ambulance service
   
32.03   Junior Fire Department
Police Department
   
32.15   Created; composition
   
32.16   Appointment of officers
   
32.17   Compensation of officers
   
32.18   Departmental rules and regulations
   
32.19   Duties of Police Department
   
32.20   Answering calls outside the town
Fire Department
   
32.35   Created; composition
   
32.36   Departmental rules and regulations
   
32.37   Compensation
   
32.38   Appointment powers and duties of Chief
   
32.39   Appointment and duties of officers and firefighters
   
32.40   Entry upon adjacent property
   
32.41   Equipment
   
32.42   Providing fire protection outside the town
   
32.43   Firefighting service outside the town
   
32.44   Acknowledgment of right-of-way
   
32.45   Fire alarms
   
32.46   Orders of Fire Chief
   
32.47   Personnel policies and procedures
   
32.48   Fire hydrants
   
32.49   Policies and minimum standards
 
   
32.99   Penalty
Editor’s note:
   This chapter was revised 4- -1983.
Statutory reference:
   Fire Department provisions, see A.R.S. § 9-240(B)(7)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 ADOPTION OF UNIFORM FIRE CODE.
   That certain code entitled “International Fire Code,” 2012 Edition,
copyrighted by the International Code Council, is adopted as the Uniform Fire
Code of the town and made a part of this chapter the same as though the code
was specifically set forth in full herein; and at least three copies of the
code shall be filed in the office of the clerk and kept available for public
use and inspection.
(Ord. 13-001, passed 2-26-2013)
§ 32.02 MUNICIPAL AMBULANCE SERVICE.
   The Council may establish a municipal ambulance service which shall be
operated in accordance with the rules and regulations as may be adopted by the
Council.
(1974 Code, Art. 4-4)
§ 32.03 JUNIOR FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. There is hereby created a Junior Fire Department, the purpose
of which is to provide young adults the opportunity to learn fire safety.
   (B)   Chairperson. A Chairperson of the Junior Fire Department will be
appointed by the Council. The person need not be a member of the Fire
Department.
   (C)   Duties. The duties of the Chairperson will be to provide leadership
and organization for the Junior Fire Department.
   (D)   Membership. Any youth under the age of 18 may join and participate in
the Junior Fire Department.
   (E)   Organization. At the discretion of the Chairperson for the Junior Fire
Department, the junior firefighters may be organized into more than one group
separated by age of the youth. Maximum junior firefighters to receive benefits
is 12.
(1974 Code, Art. 4-5) (Ord. 00-008, passed 1-25-2000)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.15 CREATED; COMPOSITION.
   There is hereby created a Police Department for the town which shall consist
of a Chief of Police, who shall also serve as Town Marshal, and as many police
officers as may from time to time be deemed necessary by the Council for the
safety and good order of the town.
(1974 Code, § 4-1-1)
§ 32.16 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   The Chief of Police shall be appointed by the Council and shall serve at the
pleasure of the Council. The Council shall appoint as many police officers as
may from time to time be deemed necessary for the safety and good order of the
town.
(1974 Code, § 4-1-2)
§ 32.17 COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS.
   The Chief of Police and the police officers of the town shall be compensated
as determined by the Council. The Chief of Police shall not receive any
perquisites, commissions or compensations for his or her services as Chief of
Police, Town Marshal or Tax Collector, except as the Council may prescribe.
(1974 Code, § 4-1-3)
§ 32.18 DEPARTMENTAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Police Department shall be operated and managed in accordance with
Departmental rules and regulations as may from time to time be adopted by the
Council.
(1974 Code, § 4-1-4)
§ 32.19 DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It is the duty of the Police Department, under the direction of the Chief of
Police, to:
   (A)   Enforce this code and the statutes of the state within jurisdictional
limits as conferred by law and to arrest and charge the violators thereof;
   (B)   Take charge of the town jail and all prisoners confined therein, and
all those who are sentenced to labor on the streets or public works of the
town, and to see that orders and sentences with reference to these are fully
executed and complied with;
   (C)   Deliver any persons who may be confined in the jail upon conviction of
a crime committed under the jurisdiction of the Magistrate Court to any
authorized officer of the town who shall at any time demand the prisoners. Any
authorized person so demanding and receiving the prisoners shall work the
prisoners on the streets or alleys of the town or on any and all authorized
work as may be determined by the Council;
   (D)   Render the account of the Police Department, its duties and receipts
as may be required by the Council, and keep records of the office open to
inspection by the Council at any time;
   (E)   Direct traffic and ensure the orderly flow thereof and investigate and
make reports of traffic accidents;
   (F)   Inspect and ascertain the condition of traffic control devices of
every description which have been erected within the town on the authority of
the Council and to notify the Council of any defects found therein; and
   (G)   Perform additional duties as may be required by the Council.
(1974 Code, § 4-1-5)
§ 32.20 ANSWERING CALLS OUTSIDE THE TOWN.
   The members of the Police Department of the town are duly authorized to
answer calls for aid and assistance beyond the corporate limits of the town
pursuant to mutual aid agreements and state statutes.
(1974 Code, § 4-1-6)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.35 CREATED; COMPOSITION.
   There is hereby created a volunteer Fire Department for the town. The
members of the Fire Department shall consist of a Chief, an Assistant Chief,
other officers which may include lieutenants, captains and as many firefighters
as may be deemed necessary from time to time by the Council.
(1974 Code, § 4-2-1) (Ord. 00-008, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 32.36 DEPARTMENTAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Fire Department shall be operated and managed in accordance with
Departmental policies, rules and regulations as may from time to time be
adopted by the Council.
(1974 Code, § 4-2-2) (Ord. 00-008, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 32.37 COMPENSATION.
   The Fire Chief, Assistant Fire Chief, other officers and volunteer
firefighters shall be compensated as may be determined by the Council.
(1974 Code, § 4-2-3) (Ord. 00-008, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 32.38 APPOINTMENT POWERS AND DUTIES OF CHIEF.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall be appointed by the Council based
upon the recommendations made by the Council member appointed to the Fire
Department and the recommendation of the acting members of the volunteer Fire
Department after a consensus of the members is taken. The Fire Chief shall
serve at the pleasure of the Council. It shall be the duty of the Chief to:
   (A)   Be accountable to the Council for the personnel, morale and general
efficiency of the Fire Department;
   (B)   Direct the operations of the Fire Department, subject to the policies,
rules and regulations thereof;
   (C)   Be present at all fires, and other Fire Department related
emergencies, if possible, and plan and direct the extinguishment thereof.
During the progress of a fire or other Fire Department related emergency, the
authority of the Fire Chief shall be absolute in all matters directly
concerning the extinguishment of the fire and the disposition of property
endangered by the fire;
   (D)   Conduct suitable and scheduled drills or instruction in the operation
and handling of equipment, first aid and rescue work, salvage, a study of
buildings in the town, water supplies, and all other matters generally
considered essential to good firefighting and safety of life and property from
fire;
   (E)   Assist the proper authorities in suppressing the crime of arson by
investigation or causing to be investigated the cause, origin and circumstances
of all fires;
   (F)   Inspect buildings and premises and serve written notice upon the owner
or occupant to abate, within a specified time, any and all fire hazards that
may be found. For the purpose of conducting the inspection, the Chief is hereby
empowered to enter any and all buildings and premises within the town at any
reasonable hour. Any person served with the written notice shall comply and
notify the Chief of his or her compliance within a reasonable time;
   (G)   Keep complete records of all fires, inspections, apparatus and
equipment, personnel and other information about the work of the Department
open to Council inspection and furnish to the Council information upon request;
   (H)   Make a complete annual report, in writing, to the Council at a time as
may be specified by the Council, and the report shall include the information
specified in division (G) above, together with comparative data for previous
years and recommendations for improving the effectiveness of the Department;
   (I)   Enforce or cause to be enforced all ordinances, laws and regulations
of the town and state, insofar as they pertain to fire and safety;
   (J)   Appoint with the approval of the Council an ambulance supervisor; and
   (K)   Demote, dismiss or expel any officer or member of the Department for
neglect or refusal to perform Departmental duties, subject to the right of any
members so demoted, dismissed or expelled to appeal to the Council.
(1974 Code, § 4-2-4) (Ord. 00-008, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 32.39 APPOINTMENT OF DUTIES OF OFFICERS AND FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   General. Firefighters shall be appointed at a time and in a manner as
the Council may deem necessary. The appointees shall be residents whose
business activities are normally within the confines of the town. The
firefighters shall be subject to supervision by the Fire Chief or the Assistant
Fire Chief.
   (B)   Appointment and duties of the Assistant Fire Chief. The Assistant Fire
Chief shall be appointed at a time and in a manner as the Council may deem
necessary. It shall be the duty of the Assistant Fire Chief to assist the Fire
Chief in the discharge of his or her duties as the Fire Chief may direct, and
in the absence of the Fire Chief perform his or her duties.
   (C)   Appointment and duties of the Captains. The Captains shall be
appointed at a time and in a manner as the Council may deem necessary. There
may be a First Captain and Second Captain, and any additional Captains as
deemed necessary. It shall be the duty of the First Captain to take charge of
the Department at meetings or emergencies in the absence of both the Fire Chief
and Assistant Fire Chief. It shall be the duty of the Second Captain to take
charge of the Department in the absence of the Chiefs and of the First Captain.
   (D)   Appointment and duties of the Lieutenants. The Lieutenants shall be
appointed at a time and in a manner as the Council may deem necessary. There
may be a First Lieutenant and Second Lieutenant, and any additional Lieutenants
deemed necessary. It shall be the duty of the First Lieutenant to take charge
of the Department at meetings or emergencies in the absence of both the Chiefs
and both the Captains. In the event of the absence of the First Lieutenant
under such conditions, it shall be the duty of the Second Lieutenant to assume
charge of the Department.
   (E)   Specific officers. The Chief may appoint firefighters to the following
officer positions:
      (1)   Training Officer;
      (2)   Fleet Officer;
      (3)   Equipment Officer; and
      (4)   Public Safety Officer.
   (F)   Secretary. A member of the Fire Department may be appointed as
Secretary to:
      (1)   Keep all records;
      (2)   Take minutes at each Department meeting;
      (3)   Keep a register of members of the Fire Department;
      (4)   Issue the required notices; and
      (5)   Handle correspondence.
(1974 Code, § 4-2-5) (Ord. 00-008, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 32.40 ENTRY UPON ADJACENT PROPERTY.
   It is lawful for any firefighter acting under the direction of the Chief or
another officer in command to enter upon the premises adjacent to or in the
vicinity of any building or other property that is on fire for the purpose of
extinguishing the fire, and no person shall hinder, resist or obstruct any
firefighter in the discharge of his or her duty as hereinbefore provided.
(1974 Code, § 4-2-6) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.41 EQUIPMENT.
   The Department shall be equipped with the apparatus and other equipment as
may be required from time to time to maintain its efficiency and properly
protect life and property from fire. Recommendations concerning apparatus and
equipment needed shall be made by the Chief and, after approval by the Council,
the apparatus and equipment shall be purchased in a manner as may be designated
by the Council. All equipment of the Department shall be safely and
conveniently housed in a place or places as may be designated by the Council.
No person shall use any fire apparatus or equipment for any private purpose,
nor shall any person willfully take away or conceal any article used in any way
by the Department. No person shall enter any place where the fire apparatus is
housed or handle any apparatus or equipment belonging to the Department unless
accompanied by, or having special permission of, an officer or authorized
member of the Department. No fire apparatus or equipment shall be hired out or
permitted to leave the fire station, except in response to a call for aid at a
fire within the corporate limits of the town or in response to a call for aid
at a fire in an area authorized for fire protection service or mutual aid under
provisions of §
32.42.
(1974 Code, § 4-2-7) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.42 PROVIDING FIRE PROTECTION OUTSIDE THE TOWN.
   The Council may enter into agreements or contracts to furnish fire
protection outside the town or enter into mutual aid agreements, and the Fire
Department is authorized to render firefighting service pursuant to the terms
of the agreements or contracts.
(1974 Code, § 4-2-8)
§ 32.43 FIREFIGHTING SERVICE OUTSIDE THE TOWN.
   (A)   Each member of the Fire Department is authorized and directed to
render firefighting service to owners or occupants of premises outside the
corporate limits of the town only where those owners or occupants live within
one mile of the corporate town limits.
   (B)   The only exception to this section which prohibits the town from
providing fire service more than one mile outside the corporate limits is where
a validly executed mutual aid agreement exists pursuant to §
32.42 or where an agreement is entered into with a property owner living more
than one mile from the town limits, whereby the property owner agrees to pay
the town on an equipment and labor basis for each call made in response to an
alarm at the property; provided that, fire service provided more than one mile
from the town limits pursuant to an agreement shall be limited to the smallest
firefighting unit then available to the town. Any property outside the
corporate town limits, in order to be eligible for the protection provided in
this section, shall be subject to inspection by the Fire Chief, or anyone else
designated by the Council, at any reasonable time for the purpose of
determining fire safety compliance.
   (C)   The Fire Department shall not leave the town and render its service
under this subchapter at any time that it is in the process of responding to an
alarm within the town limits or fighting a fire therein. Neither the town, nor
any member of the Fire Department, shall be under any liability for any failure
to respond to any call for service outside the corporate town limits, or for
any act performed or failed to be performed when responding to a call outside
the town limits, and those property owners or occupants living outside the town
limits who request or receive firefighting service from the town waive any
liability as a condition precedent to their receipt of firefighting assistance.
   (D)   Section 32.41 shall be modified to the extent necessary to permit the
firefighting equipment of the town to respond to a call outside the corporate
town limits in the manner provided in this section or in §
32.42.
(1974 Code, § 4-2-9)
§ 32.44 ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Each member of the Department who drives a private motor vehicle shall be
issued suitable insignia which may be attached to the motor vehicle. All motor
equipment of the Department and all motor vehicles of Department members shall
have right-of-way over all other traffic when responding to an alarm. No
unauthorized vehicle shall follow within 600 feet of any apparatus belonging to
the Department, nor park any vehicle or otherwise cause any obstruction to be
placed within ten feet of the entrance to any fire station or other place where
fire apparatus is stored, or within 15 feet of any fire hydrant. No person
shall drive any vehicle over fire hose, except upon specific orders from the
Chief or other officer in charge where the hose is used.
(1974 Code, § 4-2-10) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.45 FIRE ALARMS.
   Suitable arrangements or equipment shall be provided for citizens to turn in
an alarm and for notifying all members of the Department so that they may
promptly respond. It is unlawful for any person knowingly to turn in or cause
to be turned in a false alarm.
(1974 Code, § 4-2-11) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.46 ORDERS OF FIRE CHIEF.
   It is unlawful for any firefighter or citizen to refuse to obey an order
issued by the Fire Chief pursuant to his or her authority.
(1974 Code, § 4-2-12) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.47 PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.
   All members of the Fire Department shall be subject to the town’s personnel
policies and regulations.
(1974 Code, § 4-2-13) (Ord. 00-008, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 32.48 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   No person shall use a fire hydrant for any purpose, other than the
following authorized persons:
      (1)   Fire Department personnel in the normal discharge of their duties;
      (2)   Public Works personnel in the normal discharge of their duties; and
      (3)   Any person that has entered into a written agreement with the town
that includes the use of fire hydrants.
   (B)   Persons that have an agreement with the town for use of the bulk water
standpipe shall not use fire hydrants.
(1974 Code, § 4-2-14) (Ord. 99-004, passed 11-10-1999) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.49 POLICIES AND MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   The policies and minimum standards of the Fire Department are hereby adopted
by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Res. 00-034, passed 1-25-1999)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of §
32.48 shall be guilty of a class 2 misdemeanor as provided by statute and the
town code.
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §
32.46 is guilty of a petty offense with a penalty as stated in §
130.99(B).
(1974 Code, § 4-2-14) (Ord. 99-004, passed 11-10-1999; Ord. 13-004, passed 10-
8-2013)
CHAPTER 33: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
33.01   Personnel policies adopted by reference
§ 33.01 PERSONNEL POLICIES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s personnel policies, and any and all amendments, are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(1974 Code, Chs. 16, 17) (Ord. 99-001, passed 8-3-1999; Res. 99-012, passed 8-
3-1999; Res. 99-015, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-005, passed 11-10-1999; Res. 99-
023, passed 12-8-1999; Ord. 00-011, passed 1-25-2000; Res. 00-035, passed 1-25-
2000; Res. 2014-002, passed 4-8-2014)
CHAPTER 34: MAGISTRATE COURT
Section
   
34.01   Magistrate Court established; jurisdiction
   
34.02   Town Magistrate
   
34.03   Powers and duties of Town Magistrate
   
34.04   Proceedings of Court
   
34.05   Reimbursement fees
   
34.06   Establishment of funds and allocation of fees
   
34.07   Authority to set fee amounts
§ 34.01 MAGISTRATE COURT ESTABLISHED; JURISDICTION.
   There is hereby established in the town a Magistrate Court which shall have
jurisdiction of all violations of this code, and jurisdiction, concurrently
with justices of the peace of precincts in which the town is located, of
violation of laws of the state committed within the limits of the town.
(1974 Code, Art. 5-1)
§ 34.02 TOWN MAGISTRATE.
   The presiding officer of the Magistrate Court shall be the Town Magistrate,
who shall be appointed by the Council for a period of no less than two years
and who shall perform those functions necessary to the maintenance of a
Magistrate Court as provided by state statute. In addition, associate
magistrates may be appointed by the Council for a period of no less than one
year. The Town Magistrate and any associate magistrates shall be compensated at
the discretion of the Council as determined at the beginning of such
appointment. During the term of an appointment, the Town Magistrate and any
associate magistrate(s) may only be removed for cause.
(1974 Code, § 5-2-1) (Ord. 15-002, passed 7-14-2015)
§ 34.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF TOWN MAGISTRATE.
   The powers and duties of the Magistrate shall include:
   (A)   The powers and duties set forth and conferred upon him or her under
the provisions of the state constitution and statutes, this code and the
ordinances and resolutions of the town;
   (B)   The keeping of a docket in which shall be entered each action and the
proceedings of the Court therein;
   (C)   The responsibility for fixing all bonds, bails, fines and sanctions
and receiving all bonds, bails, fines, sanctions, penalties, fees and other
moneys as provided by law;
   (D)   Payment of all fees, fines, penalties and other moneys collected by
the Court to the Treasurer;
   (E)   Submitting a monthly report to the Council summarizing Court
activities for that month; and
   (F)   Preparation of a schedule of traffic violations not involving the
death of a person, listing specific bail for each violation.
(1974 Code, § 5-2-2) (Ord. 04-002, passed 10-26-2004)
§ 34.04 PROCEEDINGS OF COURT.
   (A)   The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the state
constitution, the applicable state statutes and rules of the State Supreme
Court pertaining to police courts. The proceedings shall also be conducted in
accordance with the rules of criminal procedure for the Superior Court, unless
otherwise prescribed, and providing this code and resolutions of the town are
not in conflict therewith.
   (B)   The Magistrate Court proceedings shall be commenced by complaint under
oath and in the name of the state setting forth the offense charged with and
the particulars of time, place, person and property as to enable the defendant
to understand distinctly the character of the offense complained of and to
answer the complaint.
   (C)   (1)   If the Magistrate is satisfied that the offense complained of
has been committed by the person charged, he or she shall issue a summons or a
warrant of arrest.
      (2)   Before issuing a summons or warrant of arrest on a complaint, the
Magistrate may subpoena and examine witnesses as to the truth of the complaint.
(1974 Code, Art. 5-3)
§ 34.05 REIMBURSEMENT FEES.
   (A)   Fees to be charged by the Magistrate Court. The following fees are
hereby established to be collected by the Magistrate Court:
      (1)   Jail reimbursement fee;
      (2)   Court improvement fee;
      (3)   Probation client fee;
      (4)   Warrant fee;
      (5)   Suspension fee;
      (6)   Default fee;
      (7)   Court disposition reporting fee; and
      (8)   Time payment fee.
   (B)   Jail reimbursement fee. Any person who has been convicted of a
misdemeanor criminal offense in the Magistrate Court and sentenced to a term of
incarceration in the county jail, or any other detention facility authorized by
law, may as a part of any fine imposed by the Magistrate Court in connection
with the sentencing, be required to reimburse the town for all or any part of
the actual expenses the town has or will incur to the county or other
authorized detention authority by reason of the incarceration. The maximum
amount ordered for reimbursement under this section shall not exceed the number
of days the misdemeanant is actually incarcerated in the county jail or
detention facility, multiplied by the prevailing per diem rate, plus the
booking fee, charged to the town at the time that the misdemeanant is
incarcerated.
   (C)   Court improvement fee. The Magistrate Court shall collect a court
improvement fee which shall be applied by the Magistrate Court on all fines,
sanctions, penalties and assessments imposed by the Magistrate Court. The
improvement fee shall also apply to fees collected for court authorized
diversion programs. “Court authorized diversion program,” as used in this
section, means a program in which an individual charged with any civil,
criminal, or petty offense is not prosecuted for the offense on successful
completion of an authorized diversion program and it includes authorized
defensive driving courses.
   (D)   Probation client fee. Any person who has been convicted of a criminal
misdemeanor, petty offense, or local code violation in the Magistrate Court and
sentenced to a term of probation, may as part of any fine imposed by the
Magistrate Court in connection with the sentencing be required to pay a fee to
the town to help defray the cost of probation services as provided by
Magistrate Court. The minimum amount ordered for reimbursement on summary or
supervised probation under this section shall be established on a per month
basis for each month or part thereof that the defendant is sentenced to
probation.
   (E)   Warrant fee. The Magistrate Court shall collect a warrant fee for each
warrant issued by the court. Any person who has a warrant issued by the court
for failure to appear, failure to comply with a court order, or any other
warrant from the bench shall be required to pay this fee to the town for the
cost of issuing and servicing the warrant.
   (F)   Suspension fee. The Magistrate Court shall collect a suspension fee
for each suspension on a driver’s license issued by the court. Any person who
has had a suspension issued by the court for failure to pay a civil traffic
fine or for any other reason shall be required to pay this fee to the town for
the cost of issuing and servicing the suspension. This fee shall be applied to
each suspension issued.
   (G)   Default fee. The Magistrate Court shall collect a default fee for each
default judgment entered on a civil traffic violation because the person cited
failed to respond to the citation or summons. Any person who has had a default
judgment entered against them for failure to respond to a civil traffic
citation shall be required to pay this fee to the town for the cost of issuing
and servicing the default judgment. This fee shall be applied to each default
issued.
   (H)   Court disposition reporting fee. The Magistrate Court shall collect a
disposition reporting fee which shall be applied by the Magistrate Court on all
charges in which a disposition of the charge must be reported to the Department
of Public Safety (“DPS”) or the Arizona Department of Transportation, Motor
Vehicle Division (“ADOT MVD”). The disposition reporting fee shall not be
applied to cases in which the disposition reported is “not responsible” or “not
guilty” or of similar disposition type. The disposition reporting fee shall
apply to fees collected for court authorized diversion programs. “Court
authorized diversion program,” as used in this section, means a program in
which an individual charged with any civil, criminal, or petty offense is not
prosecuted for the offense on successful completion of an authorized diversion
program and it includes authorized defensive driving courses.
   (I)   In addition to any other assessment authorized by law, the court shall
collect a time payment fee on each person who pays a court ordered penalty,
fine, or sanction on a time payment basis, including parking penalties,
restitution and juvenile monetary assessments. A time payment basis shall be
any penalty, fine, or sanction not paid in full on the date the court imposed
the fine, penalty, or sanction.
   (J)   If a person has been found by the Magistrate Court to be indigent, the
Magistrate Court magistrate may reduce the amount of any fee set forth in this
Section based upon the individual’s ability to pay.
   (K)   In addition to any other remedies which may be allowed by law, the
Town Attorney is authorized to institute civil legal proceedings in any court
of competent jurisdiction to recover any fee owing under this section.
(1974 Code, Art. 5-4) (Ord. 04-002, passed 10-26-2004; Ord. 13-003, passed 10-
8-2013)
§ 34.06 ESTABLISHMENT OF FUNDS AND ALLOCATION OF FEES.
   (A)   Magistrate Court Improvement Fund. There is hereby established a
Magistrate Court Improvement Fund, which shall be used exclusively to enhance
the technological, operational, and security capabilities of the Magistrate
Court. The Court Improvement Fund shall be established as a designated fund
account with the Town Clerk. The Magistrate Court shall collect the court
improvement fees as defined in §
34.05 and deposit them in the Court Improvement Fund account. The Town Clerk
shall invest the monies in the Fund in the same manner as town funds. Interest
earned on fund monies shall be deposited in the Fund.
   (B)   Magistrate Court Collection Fund. There is hereby established a
Magistrate Court Collection Fund, which shall be used exclusively to enhance
the technological, operational and security capabilities of the Magistrate
Court, especially, but not exclusively in regards to collection programs. The
Court Collection Fund shall be established as a designated fund account with
the Town Clerk. The Magistrate Court shall collect warrant and suspension fees
as defined in §
34.05 and deposit them in the Court Collection Fund account. The Town Clerk
shall invest the monies in the Fund in the same manner as town funds. Interest
earned on fund monies shall be deposited in the Fund.
   (C)   Magistrate Court Facility Fund. There is hereby established a
Magistrate Court Facility Fund, which shall be used exclusively to improve
existing and develop new facilities for the Magistrate Court, and support the
operational and security capabilities of the Magistrate Court. The Court
Facility Fund shall be established as a designated fund account with the Town
Clerk. The Magistrate Court shall collect court disposition reporting fees as
defined in §
34.05 and deposit them in the Court Facility Fund account. The Town Clerk shall
invest the monies in the Fund in the same manner as town funds. Interest earned
on fund monies shall be deposited in the Fund.
   (D)   Allocation of fees. All fees not designated to be deposited in a
specific fund as defined in this section are to be deposited in the Town
General Fund account as reimbursement for costs of court operations.
(Ord. 13-003, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 34.07 AUTHORITY TO SET FEE AMOUNTS.
   (A)   The amount to be charged by Magistrate Court for all fees set forth in
§
34.05 is to be set by the Presiding Magistrate of Magistrate Court who will
inform the Town Council in writing of the fees set.
   (B)   If the Town Council desires changes in the fee schedule submitted by
the presiding Magistrate, the presiding Magistrate may resubmit a new fee
schedule as often as deemed necessary. The most recent fee schedule will remain
in effect until a new fee schedule is submitted by the presiding Magistrate.
(Ord. 13-003, passed 10-8-2013)
CHAPTER 35: TAX CODE
Section
   
35.01   Tax Code adopted by reference
§ 35.01 TAX CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s Tax Code, and any and all amendments, are hereby adopted by
reference and is incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. 98-001, passed 5-13-1998; Res. 98-004, passed 5-13-1998;
Res. 00-036, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 00-012, passed 1-25-2000; Res. 01-007,
passed 11-13-2001; Ord. 01-002, passed 11-27-2001; Ord. 03-003, passed 4-8-
2003; Res. 03-005, passed 4-8-2003; Res. 06-003, passed 5-23-2006; Ord. 06-002,
passed 5-23-2006; Ord. 06-003, passed 12-12-2006; Res. 06-006, passed 12-12-
2006; Res. 09-004, passed 10-27-2009; Ord. 09-002, passed 10-27-2009; 12-001,
passed 6-26- 2012)
CHAPTER 36: TOWN POLICIES
Section
   
36.01   Consolidated fee schedule
   
36.02   Fraud program and financial controls policy
   
36.03   NIMS adoption
   
36.04   Alternate expenditure limitation
§ 36.01 CONSOLIDATED FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The certain document known as the “Town Consolidated Fee Schedule,
November 2015 Revision” for town services is hereby adopted as the consolidated
fee schedule for the town and attached as Exhibit A to Resolution 15-005. The
consolidated fee schedule, three copies of which shall be kept on file by the
Town Clerk is hereby declared to be a public record, and said copies are
ordered to remain on file with the Town Clerk.
   (B)   The provisions of this section and the public record adopted herein
are effective from and after November 15, 2015.
(Res. 11-007, passed 7-12-2010; Ord. 11-001, passed 8-9-2011; Res. 15-005,
passed 11-10-2015)
§ 36.02 FRAUD PROGRAM AND FINANCIAL CONTROLS POLICY.
   (A)   Creating an atmosphere of honesty and high ethics. It is the
responsibility of the Council to create an atmosphere of honesty and ethical
conduct for the Council and the employees and volunteers of the town. A manual
of recommendations of procedures has been created and is adopted as
instructional assistance for this policy by this reference.
   (B)   A positive workplace environment. The town management of the Council
and the Mayor must establish a positive workplace environment for all employees
and volunteers in which positive and negative feedback is accepted and becomes
the basis for creating a better workplace environment.
   (C)   Hiring and promoting employees and volunteers. The Council and the
Mayor will establish policies for the hiring and promotion of employees and
volunteers based upon the standards of honesty and ethical conduct.
   (D)   Training. All employees and volunteers shall receive proper training
from the department manager and the training designees including training in
the code of ethics and standards of honesty expected of all employees and
volunteers. (See the attachment #1 to the manual for those standards of
conduct.)
   (E)   Confirmation. The Council, Mayor, employees and volunteers of the town
shall individually be held accountable for their actions within the code of
conduct, especially with all management and financial functions of the town.
   (F)   Discipline. Any breach of the code of conduct by any individual in the
management and workforce of the town shall be disciplined in accordance with
the severity of the breach and the parameters of the law as prescribed by the
Council.
   (G)   Evaluating processes and controls. It is the responsibility of the
Council to periodically evaluate and review the process and controls of the
town to ensure strict compliance with management of anti-fraud and financial
controls of the town.
   (H)   Identifying fraud risks. The Council, with assistance of the Mayor and
independent auditors, shall periodically identify fraud risks and establish
procedures to effectively resolve the risks.
   (I)   Mitigating fraud risks. The Council shall determine and initiate
methods and programs to change the town’s activities and programs to avoid
fraud or risks.
   (J)   Implementing internal controls. Upon recommendations of the Mayor or
the members of the Council, the Council shall from time to time implement
appropriate internal controls to resolve all risks of fraud in financial
management and in employee authority over receipts, expenses, equipment and
supplies of the town.
   (K)   Developing oversight procedures. The Council is responsible for all
oversight procedures and shall establish rules of procedure for oversight of
all financial aspects of the town and for the proper management of all
financial aspects of the town and for the proper management of all town assets,
equipment and supplies. The oversight responsibility shall include final
authority for oversight of all town employees and volunteers.
   (L)   Specific management issues. The Town Manager shall instruct all
volunteers and employees of the town as to specific issues involving
possibilities of risk and fraud as follows:
      (1)   Access to facilities and equipment:
         (a)   Distribution of keys, access codes, electronic openers;
         (b)   Authority for access;
         (c)   Responsibility for closing and locking facilities and equipment;
and
         (d)   Clearance with “on-call” volunteer or employee.
      (2)   Financial controls:
         (a)   Double review of receipts, deposit and expenses;
         (b)   Monthly accounting for budget compliance;
         (c)   Reconciliation of accounts by separate review; and
         (d)   Compliance with budget.
      (3)   Equipment and supply supervision:
         (a)   Periodic physical inventory of equipment and supplies;
         (b)   Separate inventory semi-annually;
         (c)   Monthly replacement;
         (d)   Recommend actions of obsolescence; and
         (e)   Sign out personnel equipment, clothing and supplies.
      (4)   Personnel training and assignments:
         (a)   The Department Manager shall oversee all training and
assignments;
         (b)   Address volunteer and employee recommendations and complaints;
and
         (c)   Compliance in the scheduling and assignment programs.
      (5)   Disciplinary measures for failure to conform to management policy.
   (M)   Audit Committee or Board of Directors. The Council may appoint an
Audit Committee or act as an Audit Committee as a Board to review and oversee
all aspects of the policy and to recommend any changes, amendments or
altercations to this policy.
   (N)   Management. The Town Manager is responsible for management and
overseeing the day to day activities of the town and the conduct of all
employees and volunteers within the parameters of this policy. The Council is
the final responsible party for the oversight and management of this policy for
the town and shall be accountable for its establishment, maintenance and
enforcement.
   (O)   Independent auditors. The Council shall employ independent auditors to
annually review and assess the implementation and fiscal controls required by
this policy. Any recommendations for amendment shall be presented by the
independent auditors to the Council for review and possible implementation by
the Council.
   (P)   Code of conduct. A code of conduct for honesty and ethical conduct of
all individuals involved as elected Council members, employees and volunteers
of the town is attachment #14 to the manual and the same is adopted by the
Council as a standard of conduct to avoid the risks of fraud in all activities
and financial affairs of the town.
(Res. 08-001, passed 1-22-2008)
§ 36.03 NIMS ADOPTION.
   The Mayor and Council establishes the National Incident Management System
(NIMS) as the town’s standard for incident management and emergency planning.
(Res. 05-007, passed 9-13-2005)
§ 36.04 ALTERNATE EXPENDITURE LIMITATION.
   The Mayor and Common Council of the town shall annually, as part of the
annual budget adoption process, adopt an alternative expenditure limitation
equal to the total amount of budgeted expenditures/expenses as it appears on
the annual budget as adopted by the Council to apply to the town for each of
the four fiscal years immediately following the adoption of the alternative
expenditure limitation. The alternative expenditure limitation shall be adopted
each year after a public hearing at which the citizens of the town may comment
on the proposed alternative expenditure limitation. No expenditures may be made
in violation of such alternative expenditure limitation, nor may any proposed
expenditures be in excess of estimated available revenues, except that the
Mayor and the Common Council, may, by 3/4 vote, declare an emergency and
suspend the alternative expenditure limitation. The suspension of the
alternative expenditure limitation shall be in effect for only one fiscal year
at a time.
(Res. 2014-004, passed 4-15-2014)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   ELECTRICITY
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: ELECTRICITY
Section
Electric System Administration
   
50.01   Power Board
   
50.02   Powers and duties
   
50.03   Responsibility for receipts and deposits
Application for Service and Deposit
   
50.15   Application for electrical service
   
50.16   Deposit required
   
50.17   Rejection of application
Discontinuance of Service
   
50.30   Notice required
   
50.31   Conditions for termination by town
   
50.32   Fee for reconnection
   
50.33   Tampering unlawful
   
50.34   Utility Appeals Board
Rates and Bills
   
50.45   Electric rates
   
50.46   Billing procedures
   
50.47   Returned checks
Meters
   
50.60   Installation of meters
   
50.61   Connection fees
   
50.62   Meter failure
   
50.63   Special meter readings
   
50.64   Meter tests
   
50.65   Access to meters
   
50.66   Line extension policy
   
50.67   Line extensions
Customer Generating Facilities
   
50.70   General provisions
   
50.71   Conditions of service for customers with solar generation facilities
   
50.72   Net metering rates, charges, and taxes
   
50.73   General statement of technical guidelines for interconnections with
solar generation facilities
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Editor’s note:
   This chapter was revised 4- -1987.
ELECTRIC SYSTEM ADMINISTRATION
§ 50.01 POWER BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Power Board composed of seven members to be
appointed by the Council for staggered terms of four years each; except that,
the first members shall be appointed for the following terms; one for one year,
two for two years, two for three years and two for four years. The Council
shall have the authority to remove any member for cause after public hearing.
Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of the member whose place has
become vacant.
   (B)   No compensation shall be provided Board members for the performance of
those duties required hereunder, unless so determined by the Council at a later
date. Members shall be reimbursed for expenses incurred in carrying out their
duties, including reasonable travel and other expenses necessarily expended on
behalf of the town while on Board business outside the community.
(1974 Code, § 15-1-1) (Res. 02-006, passed 8-13-2002; Ord. 02-001, passed 8-13-
2002; Ord. 15-004, passed 11-24-2015)
§ 50.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Power Board shall be advisory to the Council and shall only have
those powers and duties prescribed by this chapter as it may be amended from
time to time by the Council:
      (1)   Recommend to the Council the employment of needed personnel and be
fully informed at all times as to the activities of electrical employees and
requirements of the system; electrical system employees shall be accountable to
the Board or to any power superintendent employed by the Council upon the
Board’s recommendation;
      (2)   Make periodic review of the material, equipment and inventory needs
of the electrical system, as well as its labor needs, and approve a budget for
submission to the Council annually, taking into account all projected financial
needs of the system, needed reserves and anticipated revenues;
      (3)   Remain informed as to the collection of revenues by the Town Clerk
and, based upon the system’s receipts and expenses, advise changes in
electrical rates from time to time as may seem necessary for recommendation to
the Council who may adopt the same pursuant to §§
50.45 through
50.47. The Board shall also plan for future needs of the system and include the
future requirements indicated by the planning to the Council as a part of the
budget; and
      (4)   Review and consider the content and performance of contracts
between the town and other entities for the supply and transmission of
electricity and for the supply of services and materials for use by the system
in order to make recommendations to the Council regarding the contracts.
   (B)   The Power Board shall meet at least once a month and at other times
deemed necessary for the transaction of business. All meetings shall be open to
the public. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of
each member and all official actions. A copy of every policy, rule, regulation,
determination, recommendation or other official action shall be filed with the
Town Clerk and shall be a public record. The Board shall adopt its own rules of
procedure. A quorum shall consist of four members, and no action shall be taken
by the Board without the unanimous vote of at least four members in favor of
the action.
(1974 Code, § 15-1-2) (Res. 02-006, passed 8-13-2002; Ord. 02-001, passed 8-13-
2002; Ord. 15-004, passed 11-24-2015)
§ 50.03 RESPONSIBILITY FOR RECEIPTS AND DEPOSITS.
   The Town Clerk shall be responsible for overseeing the monthly billing of
money due by users for electricity consumed and shall keep a correct record of
all receipts collected therefrom. The Clerk shall deposit the proceeds so
collected to an account or accounts as directed by resolution of the Council
and shall make the payments therefrom as may be necessary in the normal course
of the utility’s business or as directed by the Council.
(1974 Code, § 15-1-3) (Res. 02-006, passed 8-13-2002; Ord. 02-001, passed 8-13-
2002; Ord. 15-004, passed 11-24-2015)
APPLICATION FOR SERVICE AND DEPOSIT
§ 50.15 APPLICATION FOR ELECTRICAL SERVICE.
   (A)   Application for electrical service shall be made in person, or by
electronic mail, at the Town Hall by the owner of the property to be
benefitted, by the owner’s authorized agent or by a tenant thereof holding a
valid lease from the owner, designating the location of the property and
stating the purpose for which the electricity will be required. Applications
for new electric service requiring the town to install electric facilities
shall provide the town with drawings and plans showing the location of the
owners proposed location and where the electric service will be delivered and
must conform to the line extension requirements set forth in §
50.66.
   (B)   The applicant shall post any deposit required and sign an application
form wherein applicant agrees to be responsible to pay for all electricity
consumed as indicated by the electric meter at the location.
   (C)   The user shall be required to close their account whenever they cease
to consume electricity at that location. The town will endeavor to get a final
reading and process the final bill within a reasonable time frame after notice
to discontinue service has been received by the town. The customer's financial
obligation is not final until the meter reading and billing has been paid in
full by the customer.
(1974 Code, § 15-2-1) (Res. 02-006, passed 8-13-2002; Ord. 02-001, passed 8-13-
2002; Ord. 15-004, passed 11-24-2015)
§ 50.16 DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   When a residential premises applies for electrical services, whether by the
owner or by a tenant or other occupant, the applicant shall be required to post
a $250 deposit prior to the date the new electric customer requests service.
Customers requiring new electric facilities shall pay in accordance with the
town’s Line Extension Agreement as set forth in §§
50.66 and
50.67. General service customers shall make a deposit equal to six weeks’ worth
of usage prior to the date the service is requested. If a portion or all of a
deposit is used to pay delinquent charges, the user, upon request, shall be
required to add further deposit equal to the amount so used. If, after three
years, it has not been necessary to use any part of a deposit, and the customer
has paid its bills within the due date posted on the monthly bill, the town may
return the deposit. Should a customer become delinquent on an account the town
will require the customer to make a deposit based upon the average current 12-
month usage.
(1974 Code, § 15-2-2) (Res. 02-006, passed 8-13-2002; Ord. 02-001, passed 8-13-
2002; Ord. 15-004, passed 11-24-2015; Ord. 2017-005, passed 8-8-2017)
§ 50.17 REJECTION OF APPLICATION.
   The town may reject any application for utility service for any good and
sufficient reason, including but not limited to the following:
   (A)   Failure of the property or residence seeking utility service to be in
compliance with the town code after reasonable efforts by town staff to enforce
compliance have failed;
   (B)   Failure or refusal by the applicant to pay for any necessary extension
of the utility distribution system so as to be able to serve his or her
property or residence;
   (C)   Delinquency in the payment of invoices incurred by the applicant, or
(a) any person living with the applicant, or (b) any company, firm, or entity
of which the applicant is the owner, who would benefit from service;
   (D)   Failure of the applicant to post the required deposit;
   (E)   The electric connection to the town’s facilities does not meet
applicable electric code requirements.
(1974 Code, § 15-2-3) (Res. 02-006, passed 8-13-2002; Ord. 02-001, passed 8-13-
2002; Ord. 15-004, passed 11-24-2015; Ord. 2018-002, passed 6-19-2018)
DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE
§ 50.30 NOTICE REQUIRED.
   Any user desiring to discontinue service of electricity shall file written
notice, by U.S. Postal Service or electronic mail with the Town Clerk at least
three days in advance of the intended termination. Responsibility for
electrical service to the property served continues until the notice of
discontinuance is received and until the date of departure specified therein,
if any. Discontinuance by the town for any of the reasons set forth in §
50.31 shall require five days’ notice in the case of §
50.31(A), and whatever notice, if any, may be possible and reasonable in all
other cases. Notice by the town shall be considered made when mailed or
delivered to the address where service is provided, by telephone, or
electronically where reasonable in the event of an emergency.
(1974 Code, § 15-3-1) (Res. 02-006, passed 8-13-2002; Ord. 02-001, passed 8-13-
2002; Ord. 15-004, passed 11-24-2015)
§ 50.31 CONDITIONS FOR TERMINATION BY TOWN.
   The town may discontinue utility service upon one or more of the following
conditions:
   (A)   Non-payment of a delinquent invoice for utility service 25 days after
the month’s invoice is computed and mailed;
   (B)   If the property or residence receiving utility service is not in
compliance with the town code after reasonable efforts by town staff to enforce
compliance have failed;
   (C)   To prevent fraud or abuse;
   (D)   Where there is evidence of tampering with a meter or other town
utility equipment;
   (E)   Disregard of town rules regarding utility service;
   (F)   Emergency repairs;
   (G)   Insufficient supply of utility caused by factors outside of the town’s
control;
   (H)   Legal processes; and/or
   (I)   Local emergency requiring emergency measures.
(1974 Code, § 15-3-2) (Res. 02-006, passed 8-13-2002; Ord. 02-001, passed 8-13-
2002; Ord. 15-004, passed 11-24-2015; Ord. 2018-002, passed 6-19-2018)
§ 50.32 FEE FOR RECONNECTION.
   In the event of a discontinuance of service by the town for any of the
reasons set forth in §
50.31(A), (B), (C) or (D), there shall be charged a $25 reconnect fee which
shall be added to the utility bill and become a part thereof. In the case of a
delinquent bill, the reconnect charge shall be added to the delinquent portion
thereof, all of which must be paid before there can be a reconnect.
(1974 Code, § 15-3-3) (Ord. 15-004, passed 11-24-2015)
§ 50.33 TAMPERING UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for anyone other than an authorized employee of the town to
remove, alter, bypass or otherwise tamper or interfere with an electrical meter
or electrical distribution equipment of the town. In the event of tampering,
the person who may have benefitted or perceived a possible benefit there from,
shall be presumed to be responsible until and unless shown otherwise.
(1974 Code, § 15-3-4) (Res. 02-006, passed 8-13-2002; Ord. 02-001, passed 8-13-
2002; Ord. 15-004, passed 11-24-2015) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.34 UTILITY APPEALS BOARD.
   Any user who has been disconnected by the town from electric service
provided by the town, or who is given notice of an impending disconnect
thereof, may request a hearing before Power Board. The hearing shall be for the
purpose of obtaining a reversal of the town’s action, or for the stay of a
threatened action, in the event a user believes there to exist an unfairness or
illegality in the town’s position in the matter. Request for the hearing shall
be made within five days after the occurrence of an action of the town to which
the user objects, or within five days after receipt of written notice
threatening the action if a hearing is desired before action is taken. The
request shall be in writing, and the town shall afford a hearing within five
days after the receipt of the request, during which time no further action or
disconnect shall be undertaken if the action has not already been taken prior
to the receipt of written request for a hearing.
(1974 Code, § 15-3-5) (Res. 02-006, passed 8-13-2002; Ord. 02-001, passed 8-13-
2002; Ord. 15-004, passed 11-24-2015)
RATES AND BILLS
§ 50.45 ELECTRIC RATES.
   (A)   Rate categories. Schedules of rates to be charged the consumers of
electrical energy shall be calculated from time to time in accordance with the
requirements of the utility system and the best interests of the community.
There shall be three categories of rates: residential, general service and
industrial. Residential shall be limited to residential occupancies that are
not combined or associated with a commercial or public activity. General
service shall include all commercial and business establishments and activities
together with public uses such as churches, schools and governmental agencies.
Industrial shall include those business activities utilizing equipment that
employ an electric motor of 25 horsepower or greater.
   (B)   Council to set charges. The Council shall, from time to time, by
resolution set the charges to be made for electrical service and use. There
shall be three classifications of rates as listed above. Residential and
general service users shall pay a minimum charge each month regardless of
electricity used, and the minimum shall be credited toward the actual monthly
usage. General service rates will also include a demand charge and could also
apply to the street lighting and the public loads. Industrial rates shall be
determined on a case by case basis through agreement with the user based upon
the nature, time and frequency of the load.
(1974 Code, § 15-4-1) (Ord. 15-004, passed 11-24-2015)
§ 50.46 BILLING PROCEDURES.
   There shall be prepared a unified billing for all utility services provided
by the town, including water, sewer, landfill and electricity, for each
property served, and if there is more than one meter for each utility serving
the property, they shall be separately designated but on a single billing.
Utility bills shall be mailed on the first day of the month following the month
during which meters are read and shall be due on or before the twentieth day of
that month. Bills shall become delinquent after 21 days following the billing
date. Should payment for service not be received by the town prior to the
twenty-first the customer will receive notice of termination of electric
service. Should the month’s bill not be paid prior to the twenty-fifth day the
service will be terminated and a reconnect fee will be added to the amount due
and must be paid in full before electric service is again provided. The town
reserves the right to vary the dates or length of a billing period, temporarily
or permanently, if necessary or desirable. A late charge of 10% may be charged
by the town for each month or portion thereof that a billing remains unpaid
after it becomes delinquent, and any late charges shall be added to and become
a part of subsequent billings until paid.
(1974 Code, § 15-4-2) (Res. 02-006, passed 8-13-2002; Ord. 02-001, passed 8-13-
2002; Ord. 15-004, passed 11-24-2015)
§ 50.47 RETURNED CHECKS.
   In the event a utility account is paid with a check or draft that is not
honored or is returned by the bank or drawer, the maker of the check or party
making payment therewith, shall be charged a fee of $20, either at the time the
check is made good or by adding the fee to the utility bill for succeeding
months until paid.
(1974 Code, § 15-4-3) (Res. 02-006, passed 8-13-2002; Ord. 02-001, passed 8-13-
2002; Ord. 15-004, passed 11-24-2015)
METERS
§ 50.60 INSTALLATION OF METERS.
   All electricity sold by the town shall be metered by meters owned and
maintained by the town. It shall have the right to ingress and egress, at all
reasonable times, upon an owner’s property and install or require a meter to be
installed at a location acceptable to the town. Where there is more than one
meter providing service to a single or related property, such as, an apartment
complex, they shall be closely grouped together with the name of the current
customer shown on the meter that it serves.
(1974 Code, § 15-5-1) (Res. 02-006, passed 8-13-2002; Ord. 02-001, passed 8-13-
2002; Ord. 15-004, passed 11-24-2015)
§ 50.61 CONNECTION FEES.
   The town may charge a reasonable connection fee for the installation of a
meter and connection of the meter to the distribution system. The property
owner is responsible for connecting their electric meter cabinets and other
electric facilities at the premises. The customer’s electric facilities are
subject to inspection by the town. Any connection fee charged hereunder shall
be distinguished from an impact fee assigned by the town for capital
improvements under other authority.
(1974 Code, § 15-5-2) (Res. 02-006, passed 8-13-2002; Ord. 02-001, passed 8-13-
2002; Ord. 15-004, passed 11-24-2015)
§ 50.62 METER FAILURE.
   If an electric meter fails to operate, or if a reading cannot be made for
any reason, the billing for the month affected shall be in an amount equal to
the highest monthly charge during the preceding 12 months. If an accurate
reading can thereafter be obtained for the month in question, the billing shall
be adjusted according to the actual meter reading. If the failure to obtain a
reading is not the fault of the user or property owner, and no actual reading
is subsequently obtained, the billing shall be adjusted by taking the average
of billings for the preceding billing period and the subsequent billing period.
(1974 Code, § 15-5-3) (Res. 02-006, passed 8-13-2002; Ord. 02-001, passed 8-13-
2002; Ord. 15-004, passed 11-24-2015)
§ 50.63 SPECIAL METER READINGS.
   Any user may request and have the town perform a special reading of the
electric meter upon the payment of a $30 deposit. If the special reading
indicates that the regular meter reading was incorrect, then the deposit shall
be returned to the user; otherwise, the deposit shall be retained by the town
as a charge for the special meter reading.
(1974 Code, § 15-5-4) (Res. 02-006, passed 8-13-2002; Ord. 02-001, passed 8-13-
2002; Ord. 15-004, passed 11-24-2015)
§ 50.64 METER TESTS.
   Any user may, upon written request accompanied by a deposit of $50, have his
or her meter tested for accuracy by the town. If the meter registers a
divergence from accuracy greater than 5%, the deposit shall be refunded to the
user, and the indicated adjustment made in the electricity charges for a total
period not longer than the then current period and the monthly period
immediately preceding. If a meter so tested registers within 5% of accuracy,
the deposit shall be retained by the town as a fee to pay the cost of the test.
All inaccurate and defective meters shall be replaced by the town at its
expense immediately when detected.
(1974 Code, § 15-5-5) (Res. 02-006, passed 8-13-2002; Ord. 02-001, passed 8-13-
2002; Ord. 15-004, passed 11-24-2015)
§ 50.65 ACCESS TO METERS.
   The consumer shall be required to provide ingress and egress to the meter
serving the property without requiring employees to gain access to the meter
through adjoining property of another. The user shall be responsible to provide
a route of ingress to the meter free from litter and the threat of any vicious
animal, overgrowth or other hindrance which may be detrimental to the safety of
the employee or obstructive to his or her ease of access.
(1974 Code, § 15-5-6) (Res. 02-006, passed 8-13-2002; Ord. 02-001, passed 8-13-
2002; Ord. 15-004, passed 11-24-2015)
§ 50.66 LINE EXTENSION POLICY.
   All specifications and requirements for line extensions shall be governed by
the town and may require a feasibility study prior to the application being
accepted by the town. Requests for relocation or conversion of the town’s
electric facilities may have a design fee associated with each application.
(Ord. 15-004, passed 11-24-2015)
§ 50.67 LINE EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   Any customer, whether a residential or general service, will be
required to pay 100% of all estimated costs of a line extension which shall
include an administrative fee of 15% added to the labor, material and other
direct cost incurred by the town to provide the electrical extension. The
customer will be required to advance the entire estimated cost to the town
prior to the installation of the facilities. Upon the completion of the line
extension and all costs have been accounted for by the town, the customer will
either be required to advance additional sums of money. If the actual costs are
higher than the estimated costs or will be refunded the amount advanced if the
actual costs are less than the estimated amount.
   (B)   If the town is required to prepare detailed plans and specifications
in order to calculate the estimated cost of the project, such costs to prepare
the preliminary analyses will be advanced by the customer and will not be
refundable if the project is canceled by the customer.
   (C)   Line extensions on which advances for line extensions have been made,
shall remain the sole property of the town and will be free from any lien or
right in favor of the customer who made the advance for the line extension
except for the right to receive service under the applicable rate schedule at
the premises specified in the application for service.
   (D)   Existing customers who substantially increase their electric load or a
new customer with a projected load where such increase or new load is of such a
magnitude that the town is required to add or enlarge its facilities, the
customer shall be required to make an advance toward the town's cost of such
installation. Any customer requiring a line extension or reconstruction of
existing single phase facilities to three-phase service will be required to pay
in advance the estimated costs of installing such electrical facilities.
(Ord. 15-004, passed 11-24-2015)
CUSTOMER GENERATING FACILITIES
§ 50.70 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The town hereby establishes a policy and this subchapter for
the connection of customer-owned solar generating facilities to town’s
electrical distribution system under ordinances that provide for user credits
for metering of solar-generated electricity that is accepted into the town’s
electrical distribution system.
   (B)   Introduction.
      (1)   The town serves as a municipal utility providing electricity and
related services to residential, retail, and commercial customers within the
town’s territorial and legal jurisdiction. The town will implement, to the
extent possible, a net-metering program that allows customers with “solar
generation facilities” to interconnect those facilities with the town’s
electrical distribution system and credit participating customers for the value
of the electricity contributed to the town’s system. For purposes of §§
50.70,
50.71,
50,72, and
50.73, SOLAR GENERATION FACILITIES refers to equipment located at a customer
site that generates electricity using sunlight and meets technical requirements
for an interconnection to the town’s electrical distribution system. The town
may expand this program in the future to allow use of other types of renewable-
energy facilities.
      (2)   The provisions of §§
50.70,
50.71,
50,72, and
50.73 (the “user metering ordinances”) shall be available to all customers
within the town’s territorial and legal jurisdiction; provided that ownership
and operation of interconnected solar generation facilities by customers is not
mandatory. The user metering ordinances shall not supersede existing contracts
with any customer of the town’s electrical distribution system. Any agreement
or contract for interconnection of solar generation facilities shall be
supplemental to and in addition to the agreement or contract for the supply of
electrical power.
      (3)   The user metering ordinances represent general rules and guidelines
since the nature, size, and character of solar generation facilities can vary
widely. The town reserves the right to evaluate each solar generation facility
or facilities on a case-by-case basis.
   (C)   Definitions. The following definitions apply to the user credit
ordinances.
      DEMAND. The average rate in kilowatts (kW) at which electric capacity is
made available as determined at the point of measurement during any 30-minute
period or any other period to be determined by the town.
      DISTRIBUTED GENERATION. Generation of energy (electric power) from
facilities located at a customer site and meeting minimum requirements for an
interconnection to the town’s electrical distribution system.
      ENERGY. Electric energy as measured in kilowatt hours (kWh) at the point
of measurement.
      ENERGY COSTS. The variable costs associated with the production of
electric energy. They represent energy-related cost only or the average cost of
purchased energy. Identifiable capacity charges included in purchased power
agreements shall not be included in the calculation of the cost of purchased
energy.
      INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENT. A contractual agreement between the town and a
solar generation customer for an interconnection between town's electrical
distribution system and the customer’s solar generation facilities.
      INTERCONNECTION or POINT OF INTERCONNECTION. The point or points at which
the solar generation facility is to receive and/or deliver energy or capacity
and energy under normal operating conditions.
      POINT OF MEASUREMENT. The point or points where energy and/or demand are
metered.
      PRESENT PRACTICE. Any practices, methods, and actions engaged in or
approved by a significant portion of the electrical power industry consistent
with reliability, safety, and experience.
      SOLAR GENERATION. The generation of energy (electric power) through the
conversion of sunlight and/or light into usable or consumable energy.
      SOLAR GENERATION FACILITY. Equipment and/or technology used for solar
generation of energy (electric power) meeting minimum standards for accredited
capacity and with the necessary components for an interconnection to the town’s
electrical distribution system.
      SOLAR GENERATION FEE. A fee charged by the town and paid by solar
generation customers for establishing and/or maintaining an interconnection
between a customer’s solar generation facility and the town’s electrical
distribution system. See § 50.72(C).
      TOWN. The Town of Fredonia and/or its designated agent(s) for operations,
maintenance, and technical services related to the town’s electrical
distribution system.
(Ord. 2021-001, passed 8-24-2021)
§ 50.71 CONDITIONS OF SERVICE FOR CUSTOMERS WITH SOLAR GENERATION FACILITIES.
   The conditions set forth in this section shall apply to all solar generation
customers with interconnections established pursuant to §§
50.70,
50.71,
50,72, and
50.73 .
   (A)   Purpose of interconnections. Under the town’s user metering
ordinances, interconnection agreements, and related documents, customers will
be provided with a credit for solar-generated electricity that is accepted into
the town’s electrical distribution system; provided that all terms and
conditions of the user metering ordinances, interconnection agreements, and
related requirements are satisfied and complied with by the customer. Nothing
in this section shall limit the town’s ability to evaluate a solar generation
facility and determine terms and conditions that are mutually satisfactory to
the town and customer, provided that no terms of the negotiated agreement are
prohibited by or contrary to any law, and that the terms of the negotiated
agreement are not detrimental to the operation of the town’s electrical
distribution system or to other customers of the town. The town shall not enter
into any agreement to provide a credit for or purchase all energy generated by
a customer’s solar generation facility, unless the credit provided to the
customer or the cost of the customer’s energy is less than or equal to the
town’s avoided cost of energy.
   (B)   Customer solar generation facilities. A customer’s solar generation
facility may not exceed ten kW and must be approved by the town or the town’s
agent prior to commencement of an interconnection. The customer’s solar
generation facilities: (1) must be capable of providing some or all of the
customer’s requirements for electricity; and (2) must not exceed 90% of the
customer’s utility distribution service rating at the site where the solar
generation facilities are located. The town will not interconnect or agree to
interconnect solar generation facilities that are inconsistent with these
requirements, unless the customer and the town negotiate and agree to an
interconnection agreement that provides for a solar generation facility that
exceeds these limitations.
   (C)   Interconnection agreement. The solar generation customer must execute
an interconnection agreement with the town. An interconnection agreement for a
customer’s solar generation facilities shall not alter, limit, or restrict a
customer’s right to purchase from the town all capacity and energy required by
the customer at the site of customer’s solar generation facilities.
   (D)   Applicable rates. For purposes of metering and customer billing, the
town shall apply the applicable rates for residential and general customers
that are in effect at the time service was provided. The applicable rate for
industrial customers shall be negotiated and memorialized by written agreement.
See §
50.72(D)(3).
   (E)   Applicable technical standards. The customer’s solar generation
facility shall comply with all requirements of the National Electrical Safety
Code, American National Standards Institute, Institute of Electrical and
Electronic Engineers, American Society of Mechanical Engineers, and any other
applicable local, state, or national code. The customer shall operate the solar
generation facility according to prudent present practice within the electrical
power industry. In case of any conflict in the foregoing codes or standards,
the town, in its sole discretion, will determine which codes or standards
govern.
   (F)   Switching equipment. Switching equipment capable of isolating the
solar generation facility from the town’s electrical distribution system shall
be accessible to the town or its agent at all times.
   (G)   Operation of switching equipment. At its option, the town or its agent
may choose to operate, without notice or liability, the switching equipment
described in division (E) of this section if, in the opinion of the town or its
agent, continued operation of the solar generation facility and/or its
connection with the town’s electrical distribution system may create or
contribute to a system emergency or safety hazard. The town’s obligation to
purchase energy from the solar generation customer ceases when the town or its
agent operates the switching equipment described in division (E) of this
section. The town shall endeavor to minimize any adverse effects of such
operation on the customer’s solar generation facility.
   (H)   Indemnification. The solar generation customer shall indemnify and
hold harmless the town from any and all liability arising from the operation
and interconnection of the customer’s solar generation facility. The solar
generation customer shall bear full responsibility for the installation and
safe operation of the solar generation facility and the generation and delivery
of energy to the point of interconnection.
   (I)   Other insurance. If a solar generation customer employs any person to
operate and/or maintain the customer’s solar generation facility, the customer
shall obtain and maintain: (1) public liability insurance covering bodily
injury and property damage in an amount not less than $5,000,000 per
occurrence; and (2) worker’s compensation insurance as required by law. Each
public liability policy shall name the town as an additional insured.
   (J)   Exclusions from liability. The town shall not be liable to a solar
generation customer, any customers of a solar generation customer, or any other
person or entity, under any contract, tort, or any other legal theory, for:
      (1)   Lost generation revenue;
      (2)   Loss of use, revenue, or profit;
      (3)   Cost of capital;
      (4)   Substitute use or performance; or
      (5)   Any other incidental, indirect, special, or consequential damages.
   (K)   Information regarding cost effectiveness of customer’s solar
generation facility. The town shall provide upon request sufficient data to
allow a solar generation customer to determine the cost effectiveness of
customer’s solar generation facility, but only after the customer and the town
have entered a valid interconnection agreement and customer’s solar generation
facility has been in operation for at least one month. The town’s obligation to
provide this information is limited to providing copies of existing documents
and information pursuant to A.R.S. §§ 39-121 through 39-161.
   (L)   Advance payment. The solar generation customer shall provide an
advance payment to the town for all costs associated with the installation and
processing of a request for interconnection, including but not limited to
bidirectional metering equipment, any related metering, switching, or relaying
equipment, engineering studies, inspections, third-party contractors retained
by the town, safety provisions, and administrative costs.
   (M)   Customer bears costs of interconnection. The solar generation customer
shall be responsible for all costs related to establishing an interconnection
between the customer’s solar generation facility and the town’s electrical
distribution system, including but not limited to any and all metering
equipment. At the town’s option, the costs of interconnection may be amortized
over a period of time not to exceed one year.
   (N)   Emergency disconnection. The town may suspend or discontinue an
interconnection agreement with a solar generation customer during an emergency
affecting the town’s electrical distribution system or due to a major force
beyond the town’s control, provided that the suspension or discontinuation does
not discriminate on any basis prohibited by law.
(Ord. 2021-001, passed 8-24-2021)
§ 50.72 NET METERING RATES, CHARGES, AND TAXES.
   (A)   No subsidies or incentives. The town does not offer any subsidies or
incentive payments to support the capital costs related to the installation of
solar generation facilities.
   (B)   Categories of customers; standard rates and charges.
      (1)   Categories of customers. Pursuant to §
50.45, the town recognizes three categories of customers: residential, general,
and industrial. Solar generation customers will not be treated under a separate
category, but rather, a solar generation customer will be treated as a
residential, general, or industrial customer with a solar generation facility
at a customer’s site who has entered an interconnection agreement with the
town.
      (2)   Standard rates and charges apply. All rates and charges established
by the Council pursuant to §
50.45 shall apply to solar generation customers; provided that different rates
and charges may apply to industrial customers by agreement between the town and
the industrial customer.
      (3)   Industrial customers. Industrial customers are not eligible for
user credits based on solar-generated electricity; provided that industrial
customers may negotiate user credits for metering based on a solar generation
facility at the customer’s site as part of a rate agreement negotiated under §
50.45(B).
   (C)   Solar generation fee. The town, at its sole option, may establish a
solar generation fee, which will be charged to solar generation customers with
each month’s bill. The solar generation fee, if any, will apply in addition to
any credit for net energy supplied to the town’s electrical distribution system
that is applied to reduce the customer’s monthly bill. The Town Council may,
from time to time, establish, set, change, and/or terminate the solar
generation fee by resolution.
   (D)   Credit metering and customer billing.
      (1)   Credit metering. Each billing cycle, the energy supplied by the
town to the solar generation customer (measured in kWh) will be compared with
the energy transmitted by the customer’s solar generation facility to the
town’s electrical distribution system (measured in kWh).
         (a)   If the energy supplied by the town exceeds the energy supplied
by customer’s solar generation facility, the customer shall be billed for the
net energy supplied by the town (as measured in kWh) based on the rate
applicable to the customer in accordance with §
50.45 and all other standard rates and charges.
         (b)   If the energy transmitted by the customer’s solar generation
facility exceeds the energy supplied by the town, the customer shall be
credited for the net energy transmitted by the customer’s solar generation
facility (as measured in kWh). The credit given to the customer as measured in
kWh will be applied in accordance with § 50.72(D)(2)(a) to reduce the
customer’s bill.
      (2)   (a)   Customer billing. Based on any net energy supplied to the
town from the customer’s solar generation facility (as measured in kWh), a
credit will be calculated and applied to the solar generation customer’s bill
during the next billing period. The amount of the credit will be calculated by
multiplying the net energy supplied to the town by the rate per kWh established
by the Council for such net energy supplied to the town. See §
50.72(D)(3). The resulting credit will be applied to reduce the solar
generation customer’s bill during the next billing cycle.
         (b)   At the end of each calendar year (December 31), any remaining
credit balance will be paid out to the customer, and the customer’s billing
account will begin with a zero balance at the beginning of the next calendar
year (January 1). No credit balances will be carried forward to the next
calendar year.
      (3)   Solar generation credit rate. The Council shall, from time to time,
by resolution, set the rate per kWh to be used when calculating the credit, or
avoided cost of energy, given to solar generation customers for the net energy
supplied to the town. The interconnection agreement and/or other town documents
may, from time to time, use the phrase “avoided cost of energy” to refer to the
resulting credit given to a solar generation customer.
   (E)   Customer tax liability. Any tax (or payment in lieu thereof) imposed
on the town by any lawful authority for the production, transmission, sale, or
purchase of energy (or a combination of capacity and energy) shall be the
responsibility of the solar generation customer if the tax would not be imposed
on energy supplied to a comparable non-solar generation customer.
(Ord. 2021-001, passed 8-24-2021)
§ 50.73 GENERAL STATEMENT OF TECHNICAL GUIDELINES FOR INTERCONNECTIONS WITH
SOLAR GENERATION FACILITIES.
   (A)   General statement of technical guidelines; responsibility for
developing technical details and interconnection agreements.
      (1)   This section sets forth general technical guidelines for
interconnections between the town’s electrical distribution system and a
customer’s solar generation facility.
      (2)   The Town Manager, with oversight by the Power Board, is authorized
to develop detailed technical requirements and conditions, and a standard
interconnection agreement; provided that the technical requirements and
conditions, and the standard interconnection agreement must be approved by the
Town Council prior to use and implementation.
   (B)   Conditions of interconnection. The town shall allow interconnection
between its electrical distribution system and a customer’s solar generation
facilities on a continuing basis so long as the operation of the solar
generation facilities does not degrade, in any way, the quality of the electric
energy service provided to the town’s other customers. The solar generation
customer shall make all reasonable efforts to operate customer’s solar
generation facilities, in a manner that is safe and will not create any
hazardous conditions affecting either the solar generation facilities or the
town’s electrical distribution system.
   (C)   Interconnection. The solar generation customer shall, to the point of
interconnection, furnish, install, operate, and maintain in good repair,
without cost to the town, such relays, locks, seals, breakers, automatic
synchronizers, and other control and protective equipment designated by the
town or its agent as suitable for the operation of the solar generation
facilities in parallel with the town’s electrical distribution system. The
solar generation customer shall take appropriate steps to ensure that parallel
operation of customer’s solar generation facilities will not degrade the
quality of service that is normally maintained on the town’s system.
   (D)   Metering.
      (1)   Installation of equipment. The town shall provide and install
metering equipment capable of measuring and monitoring: (1) the energy supplied
by the town’s electrical distribution system to the solar generation customer
(measured in kWh); and (2) the energy supplied by the solar generation customer
to the town’s electrical distribution system (measured in kWh). The metering
equipment shall allow measurement of the energy supplied in both directions
during each billing cycle. At the town’s option, a separate meter may be
installed by the town on customer’s solar generation facilities to determine
the amount of energy contributed to the town’s electrical distribution system.
      (2)   Ownership of equipment. The town shall own and maintain all
necessary meters and associated equipment utilized for measuring and monitoring
the flows of energy described in division (A) above.
   (E)   System disturbances. Disturbances to the town’s electrical
distribution system shall be minimized to the greatest extent possible. Such
disturbances shall include but not be limited to lagging or leading power
factors, unacceptable voltage regulation, voltage flicker and harmonics.
   (F)   Recordkeeping by solar generation customers. The solar generation
customer shall maintain an operations log for all solar generation facilities
at the customer’s site. The operations log shall be used to record information
on unit parallel and separation times, maintenance outages, trip operation, and
other unusual events. The kilowatt operating level may also be required. The
town shall have the right to review customer’s operations log on request.
(Ord. 2021-001, passed 8-24-2021)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Non-compliance with any requirement of this chapter shall be unlawful and
shall constitute a petty offense punishable by a fine not in excess of $299;
each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense
hereunder.
(1974 Code, § 15-6-1) (Res. 02-006, passed 8-13-2002; Ord. 02-001, passed 8-13-
2002; Ord. 15-004, passed 11-24-2015)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
Water System Administration
   
51.001   Management of water system
   
51.002   Receipts and deposits
Application for Service and Discontinuance of Service
   
51.015   Application for water service
   
51.016   Grounds for rejection of application
   
51.017   Violation of application provisions
Deposit
   
51.030   Deposit required
   
51.031   Payment responsibility
Discontinuance of Service
   
51.045   Notice required
   
51.046   Service may be discontinued under certain conditions
Rates and Bills
   
51.060   Water rates
   
51.061   Minimum rate
   
51.062   Water bills
   
51.063   Incorrect bill
   
51.064   Turn offs and turn ons
   
51.065   Unoccupied units liable
   
51.066   Commencement of charges
Meters
   
51.080   Meters to be used
   
51.081   Suitable placement
   
51.082   Grouping of meters
   
51.083   Water meter installation fees
   
51.084   Water meter failure
   
51.085   Interference by dogs
   
51.086   Special meter reading
   
51.087   Meter tests
Consumer Responsibilities
   
51.100   Consumer water facilities
   
51.101   Consumer negligence
   
51.102   Right-of-way
   
51.103   Installation of lines
   
51.104   Protection of town property
   
51.105   Supplying water to others prohibited
   
51.106   Commercial use
   
51.107   Sprinkling restrictions
   
51.108   Waste of water prohibited
   
51.109   Inspections
Liability
   
51.120   Interruption of service
   
51.121   Liability limited
Regulations Part of Contract
   
51.135   Regulations part of contract
Editor’s note:
   This chapter was revised 1- -1978.
WATER SYSTEM ADMINISTRATION
§ 51.001 MANAGEMENT OF WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   The Council shall have the immediate control and management of all
things pertaining to the town water system and shall perform, or cause to be
performed, all acts that may be necessary for the prudent, efficient and
economical management and protection of the water system.
   (B)   The Council shall have the power to prescribe other and further rates,
rules and regulations as it may deem necessary.
(1974 Code, § 13-1-1)
§ 51.002 RECEIPTS AND DEPOSIT.
   The Clerk shall keep a correct account of all receipts, make out all bills
for water and materials furnished to consumers, collect the same and deposit
the proceeds so collected to the credit of the town, and in accordance with the
direction of the Council.
(1974 Code, § 13-1-2)
APPLICATION FOR SERVICE AND DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE
§ 51.015 APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE.
   Application for the use of water service shall be made in person, at the
town hall, to the Clerk or other appointed person by the owner or agent of the
property to be benefitted, designating the location of the property and stating
the purpose for which the water may be required.
(1974 Code, § 13-2-1)
§ 51.016 GROUNDS FOR REJECTION OF APPLICATION.
   The town may reject any application for utility service for any good and
sufficient reason(s), including but not limited to the following:
   (A)   The property or residence that is the subject of the application is
not in compliance with the town code after reasonable efforts by town staff to
enforce compliance have failed;
   (B)   Service is not available under a standard rate;
   (C)   Service which involves excessive service expense;
   (D)   Service which may affect the service to other consumers;
   (E)   Service when the applicant is delinquent in the payment of invoices
incurred by the applicant, or (a) any person living with the applicant, or (b)
any company, firm, or entity of which the applicant is the owner, who would
benefit from service.
(1974 Code, § 13-2-2) (Ord. 2018-002, passed 6-19-2018)
§ 51.017 VIOLATION OF APPLICATION PROVISIONS.
   For violation of any of the provisions relating to application for service,
the town shall, at the expiration of seven days after mailing written notice to
the last known address of the consumer, at its option, remove the meter and
discontinue service. Where the meter is thereafter reinstalled, the consumer
shall first pay to the town a reinstallation charge of $10.
(1974 Code, § 13-2-3)
DEPOSIT
§ 51.030 DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   There shall be charged to all persons applying for water service to be
provided to any premises, before the service commences, a deposit of $20 for
water service, or, at the option of the Clerk or other appointed official a
deposit equal to not less than twice the estimated amount of the prorated
monthly bill. Deposits shall be non-interest bearing and shall be refunded to
the consumer upon discontinuance of service and payment of charges; provided
that, charges may be deducted from the security deposit before the refund is
made.
(1974 Code, § 13-3-1)
§ 51.031 PAYMENT RESPONSIBILITY.
   The individual in whose name the deposit is made shall be responsible for
payment of all bills incurred in connection with the service furnished.
(1974 Code, § 13-3-2)
DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE
§ 51.045 NOTICE REQUIRED.
   Any person who desires to discontinue the use of water service shall file
written notice with the Clerk or other appointed person at least three days in
advance of intended termination of service. Responsibility for water service
consumed extends to the time of departure or to the time specified for
departure, whichever occurs last.
(1974 Code, § 13-4-1)
§ 51.046 SERVICE MAY BE DISCONTINUED UNDER CERTAIN CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The town may discontinue utility service upon one or more of the
following conditions:
      (1)   Non-payment of a delinquent invoice for utility service 25 days
after the month’s invoice is computed and mailed;
      (2)   If the property or residence receiving utility service is not in
compliance with the town code after reasonable efforts by town staff to enforce
compliance have failed;
      (3)   To prevent fraud or abuse;
      (4)   Where there is evidence of tampering with a meter or other town
utility equipment;
      (5)   Disregard of town rules regarding water service;
      (6)   Emergency repairs;
      (7)   Insufficient supply of water caused by factors outside the town’s
control;
      (8)   Legal process;
      (9)   Direction of public authorities; and/or
      (10)   Local emergency requiring emergency measures.
   (B)   Any discontinuance appeal shall be handled pursuant to §
50.34.
(1974 Code, § 13-4-2) (Ord. 2018-002, passed 6-19-2018)
RATES AND BILLS
§ 51.060 WATER RATES.
   All water sold by the town shall be sold at rates as determined by
resolution of the Council.
(1974 Code, § 13-5-1)
§ 51.061 MINIMUM RATE.
   Service for a time period less than a month shall be charged at the minimum
monthly rate.
(1974 Code, § 13-5-2)
§ 51.062 WATER BILLS.
   (A)   Water meters shall be read on the twentieth day of each month, as
nearly as possible, and a separate bill shall be rendered for each meter and
mailed on the first day of each succeeding month.
   (B)   All bills shall include other charges for other town services as may
be authorized by the Council.
   (C)   Bills shall be due on or before the tenth day of the month following
the reading of the meter and shall become delinquent after ten days following
billing date.
   (D)   Service may be discontinued after 15 days or length of billing date,
and the town reserves the right to vary the dates or length of billing period,
temporarily or permanently, if necessary or desirable.
(1974 Code, § 13-5-3)
§ 51.063 INCORRECT BILL.
   (A)   Any consumer may present a claim to the town if he or she believes
that he or she may have received an incorrect bill.
   (B)   The claim shall be presented in person at the town hall before the
bill becomes delinquent; provided that, the consumer may make a claim following
payment of his or her bill and his or her payment shall not prejudice his or
her claim.
   (C)   The claim shall not exempt the consumer from delinquency penalties if
he or she fails to pay his or her bill on time.
(1974 Code, § 13-5-4)
§ 51.064 TURN OFFS AND TURN ONS.
   A charge shall be made for each turn off and each turn on of water service
for reasons other than change of occupancy.
(1974 Code, § 13-5-5)
§ 51.065 UNOCCUPIED UNITS LIABLE.
   The above minimum charges for additional units or trailer spaces shall apply
regardless of whether the unit or trailer space is occupied or unoccupied.
(1974 Code, § 13-5-6)
§ 51.066 COMMENCEMENT OF CHARGES.
   The town shall commence service charges for a consumer when the water meter
is installed and the water connection is made, regardless of whether the water
service is used or not.
(1974 Code, § 13-5-7)
METERS
§ 51.080 METERS TO BE USED.
   All water sold by the town shall be metered by meters which shall be owned
and kept in repair by the town.
(1974 Code, § 13-6-1)
§ 51.081 SUITABLE PLACEMENT.
   The town may install a water meter on the property line or on the consumer’s
property in a location as deemed necessary and which is conveniently accessible
by a meter reader.
(1974 Code, § 13-6-2)
§ 51.082 GROUPING OF METERS.
   When two or more meters are installed on the same premises for different
consumers, they shall be closely grouped and each meter shall be clearly marked
as to the consumer to whom it belongs.
(1974 Code, § 13-6-3)
§ 51.083 WATER METER INSTALLATION FEES.
   Fees for water meter installations shall be as determined from time to time
by the Council.
(1974 Code, § 13-6-4)
§ 51.084 WATER METER FAILURE.
   If a water meter fails to operate and a reading cannot be taken, a bill
shall be made by the town in an amount based on the average monthly billing of
the previous three months.
(1974 Code, § 13-6-5)
§ 51.085 INTERFERENCE BY DOGS.
   In the event any dog kept on the premises interferes with meter reading by
an employee of the town and the meter is not read, a billing shall be made by
the town in an amount based on the average monthly billing of the previous
three months.
(1974 Code, § 13-6-6)
§ 51.086 SPECIAL METER READING.
   Any consumer may request and have the town perform a special reading of his
or her water meter upon the payment of a $5 deposit. If the special reading
indicates that the regular meter reading was incorrect, then the deposit shall
be returned to the consumer; otherwise, the deposit shall be retained by the
town as a charge for the special meter reading.
(1974 Code, § 13-6-7)
§ 51.087 METER TESTS.
   Any consumer may, upon written application accompanied by a deposit, have
his or her meter tested for accuracy by the town. If the meter registers a
divergence from accuracy greater than 3%, the deposit shall be refunded to the
applicant and the indicated adjustment made in the water service charges for a
total period not longer than the then current period and the monthly period
immediately preceding. If a meter so tested registers within 3% of accuracy,
the deposit shall be retained by the town as a fee to pay the cost of the test.
All inaccurate and defective meters shall be replaced by the town immediately
when detected.
(1974 Code, § 13-6-8)
CONSUMER RESPONSIBILITIES
§ 51.100 CONSUMER WATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   The consumer shall have complete responsibility for the installation
and maintenance of adequate water facilities on the premises and the town shall
not in any way be responsible for the installation, maintenance, inspection or
damage of the facilities or damage caused by any defect in the facilities on
the consumer’s premises.
   (B)   The facilities shall be maintained by the consumer in full compliance
with any and all rules and regulations of the town in addition to applicable
state statutes.
(1974 Code, § 13-7-1)
§ 51.101 CONSUMER NEGLIGENCE.
   Any damage to the town water system or injury to town employees caused by
the negligence of any consumer and which requires any repairs, replacements or
damages, the cost of such shall be added to that consumer’s bill and, if the
charges are not paid, water service may be discontinued.
(1974 Code, § 13-7-2)
§ 51.102 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Each consumer shall provide to the town the easement and right-of-way as is
necessary to provide water service to that consumer.
(1974 Code, § 13-7-3)
§ 51.103 INSTALLATION OF LINES.
   The town may refuse to provide service unless the lines or piping are
installed on the premises so as to prevent cross-connections or backflow.
(1974 Code, § 13-7-4)
§ 51.104 PROTECTION OF TOWN PROPERTY.
   The consumer shall guarantee proper protection for town property placed on
his or her premises.
(1974 Code, § 13-7-5)
§ 51.105 SUPPLYING WATER TO OTHERS PROHIBITED.
   No occupant or owner of any building into which water is introduced will be
allowed to supply water to other persons or families or for use on any other
property. A separate water meter shall be required for each individual family
dwelling or unit. The town reserves the right to shut off the supply for abuses
of water privileges.
(1974 Code, § 13-7-6)
§ 51.106 COMMERCIAL USE.
   Any water service for commercial use shall not be included in a residential
service account and shall have a separate meter and connection.
(1974 Code, § 13-7-7)
§ 51.107 SPRINKLING RESTRICTIONS.
   In case of water shortage or scarcity, the Council may, by resolution, place
any restrictions which it deems necessary upon the use of water for irrigation
or sprinkling purposes.
(1974 Code, § 13-7-8)
§ 51.108 WASTE OF WATER PROHIBITED.
   Consumers shall prevent unnecessary waste of water and keep all water
outlets closed when not in actual use. All water outlets, including those used
in conjunction with hydrants, urinals, water closets, bathtubs and other
fixtures, must not be left running for any purpose other than the use for which
they were intended. In addition to the penalty provided herein for code
violations, the water supply may be turned off where any waste occurs.
(1974 Code, § 13-7-9)
§ 51.109 INSPECTIONS.
   Whenever, in the judgment of the Council, it is deemed necessary, it may
provide for the inspection of the premises or buildings of any water or sewer
consumer for the purpose of examining the condition of all pipes, motors,
meters and fixtures, or the manner in which the facilities are used.
(1974 Code, § 13-7-10)
LIABILITY
§ 51.120 INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE.
   The town shall notify the consumer in advance of any anticipated
interruption of service when advance notice is possible. The town shall not be
responsible for any interruption of water service caused by forces beyond its
control.
(1974 Code, § 13-8-1)
§ 51.121 LIABILITY LIMITED.
   No liability shall attach to the town for any injury or damages that may
result from turning on or shutting off the water in any main, service
connection or pipe; or the restriction of use or discontinuance of any water
service, or any failure of the water supply, regardless of any notice or lack
of notice thereof. The town shall not be held liable, in any respect, for the
condition, defects, failure or use of any pipe, connection, fixture or
appurtenance, not belonging to the town, on any premises or for loss or damage
resulting therefrom.
(1974 Code, § 13-8-2)
REGULATIONS PART OF CONTRACT
§ 51.135 REGULATIONS PART OF CONTRACT.
   All regulations contained in this chapter shall be considered a part of the
contract of every resident of the town taking water service from the town and
the resident taking water service shall be considered as having expressly
consented to be bound thereby. Consumers outside the town limits shall, upon
application for water service, be required to sign a statement agreeing to the
regulations set forth in this chapter.
(1974 Code, § 13-9-1)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Definitions
Sewer Service
   
52.015   Application for service
   
52.016   Minimum charges, rates and payments
Extension Policy
   
52.030   Plans, specifications and construction
   
52.031   Area to be served
   
52.032   Costs of extension
   
52.033   Charges
   
52.034   Ownership
Department and Consumer Responsibilities
   
52.045   Sewer Department responsibilities and liabilities
   
52.046   Consumer responsibility
   
52.047   Interference with Water Department, Sewer Department or Building
Inspector; digging up streets without permit
   
52.048   Unsanitary disposal of excrement prohibited
   
52.049   Private sewage systems
   
52.050   Tampering with equipment prohibited
   
52.051   Permit required
   
52.052   Application
   
52.053   Inspection and approval by Sewer Department or Building Inspector
   
52.054   Records to be kept by Sewer Department
Use of Public Sewers
   
52.065   Prohibited substances
   
52.066   Interceptors required
   
52.067   Authority of Sewer Department
   
52.068   Preliminary treatment
   
52.069   Manholes
   
52.070   Tests and analysis
   
52.071   Special agreements with industrial concerns
Wastewater System Policy
   
52.085   Definitions
   
52.086   Use of public sewers required
   
52.087   Private wastewater disposal
   
52.088   Wastewater sewers, building sewers and connections; rates for use
   
52.089   Annual review of operational costs; revision where required; debt
service
   
52.090   Use of the public sewers
   
52.091   Inspections, industrial waste
   
52.092   Hearing Board
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   B.O.D. (Denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND.) The quantity of oxygen utilized
in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedure in five days at 20°C expressed in parts per million (P.P.M.) in
weight.
   BRANCH SEWER. A sewer which receives sewage from lateral sewers from a
relatively small area.
   BUILDING SEWER and HOUSE SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the
building connection or other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   DEVELOPER. Any person or persons engaged in the organizing and financing of
a sewage collecting system within an area tributing to a trunk sewer of the
town sewer system. It may be either a subdivider or a legally constituted
improvement district.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food
and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial processes as distinct
from sanitary sewage.
   LATERAL SEWER. A sewer which discharges into a branch or other sewer and has
no other common sewer tributary to it.
   MAIN SEWER. A sewer which receives sewage from one or more branch sewers as
tributaries.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, ditch or other body of
surface or ground water.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. Garbage that has been shredded to a degree that
all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally
prevailing in public sewers with no particle greater than one-fourth inch in
any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments together with the ground,
surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER CONNECTION. The connection to the public sewer and the extension
therefrom of the sewer to the property line at the alley or the curb line of
the street, whichever is applicable, depending on the location of the public
sewer.
   SEWER CONNECTION FEE. The initial sewer connection charge as set forth in §
52.016 and shall apply to all sewer connections to the public sewer after the
effective date of this code.
   SEWER DEPARTMENT. Those officers and agents of the town supervising sewer
operations for the town.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TRUNK SEWER. A sewer which receives sewage from many tributary main sewers
and serves as an outlet for a large territory.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs either continuously
or intermittently.
(1974 Code, § 11-1-1)
Cross-reference:
   Wastewater system policy definitions, see §
52.085
   Water, see
Ch. 52
SEWER SERVICE
§ 52.015 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   No sewer connection connecting the town sanitary sewer system to any
consumer shall be made or used by any person or the city, except upon written
application furnished to the town by the owner, or his or her authorized agent,
of the premises to which sanitary sewer service is to be furnished.
   (B)   An initial sewer connection fee shall be required in addition to a
quarterly rental charge for the sanitary sewer connection according to the
rates fixed by the town until the service is discontinued by order of the Sewer
Department or written order of the owner or his or her authorized agent.
   (C)   A charge as specified by the Council by resolution shall be made for
re-application of service to an existing connection.
   (D)   The initial sewer connection fee is non-refundable.
(1974 Code, § 11-2-1) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.016 MINIMUM CHARGES, RATES AND PAYMENTS.
   The initial sewer connection fee and minimum charge shall be as determined
from time to time by the Council.
(1974 Code, § 11-2-2)
EXTENSION POLICY
§ 52.030 PLANS, SPECIFICATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION.
   A developer who wishes to extend sewer facilities must employ a civil
engineer registered in the state to perform the field engineering and prepare
detailed plans and specifications for the sewer extension. The final detailed
plans and specifications for the main sewer extension must be approved by the
State Department of Health and by the Council before construction begins. The
design and engineering will be in accordance with the specifications of the
State Department of Health and the town prior to construction. The construction
shall meet the town’s specifications, requirements and approval, and will be
subject to inspection by the town’s agents during construction. Subject to the
provisions of this chapter, the town agrees to permit the developer to connect
into the town’s existing trunk sewer lines and the main sewer line to be
constructed by the developer herein provided.
(1974 Code, § 11-3-1)
§ 52.031 AREA TO BE SERVED.
   The maximum area to be served by the proposed main sewer line and its
ultimate branches and laterals shall be determined by the Town Engineer based
on local drainage conditions. In the event that the area to be serviced by the
developer is lesser in size than the maximum area to be serviced by the
proposed main sewer line and its ultimate laterals, the aforesaid main sewer
line shall be designed, engineered and constructed to serve the maximum area
described heretofore. Should other parties in the service area desire to join
with the developer in constructing the proposed main sewer line, this agreement
will be considered as including additional parties.
(1974 Code, § 11-3-2)
§ 52.032 COSTS OF EXTENSION.
   The developer shall pay the costs for utility extension using one of the
following two options.
   (A)   Option I. The developer shall pay in full for the rights-of-way, the
construction and installation of the lines, pipes and mains, and all other
features for the extension.
   (B)   Option II.
      (1)   The construction cost of the extension shall be determined and
agreed upon prior to commencement of construction after the developer has
submitted a cost breakdown to the Town Engineer. The engineering costs incurred
by the developer for the preparation of plans and staking of the main sewer
only may be included in the agreed construction cost. Costs of lateral and
branch sewers and their appurtenances will not be included in the agreed
construction cost or in the main sewer project agreement. The town reserves the
right to reject the developer’s cost breakdown if it is in appreciable variance
with the town’s estimate.
      (2)   In the event that the area to be serviced by the developer is the
entire area described herein as the maximum service area, then the developer
will pay in full for the construction cost and will not be eligible for
repayment. In the event that the area to be serviced by the developer is lesser
in size than the maximum area to be serviced by the proposed main sewer line
and its ultimate branches and laterals, the town agrees to enter into agreement
with any party desirous of obtaining a connection to the main sewer line. The
agreement will establish a just, equitable and reasonable charge to permit a
connection, the charge to be made on a cost per acre basis of the area to be
served, using the heretofore agreed main sewer line construction cost and
maximum service area acreage to determine the cost per acre. The amount of the
connection charge will be paid to the town who agrees to repay the amount to
the developer, the total of the repayments not to exceed that portion of the
agreed construction cost of the main sewer line allotted to acreage outside the
service area of the developer.
      (3)   In no way is any agreement to be construed as including any branch
or lateral sewer within the service area.
(1974 Code, § 11-3-3)
§ 52.033 CHARGES.
   Any connection charge shall not affect the right of the town to assess its
regular tax charges and sewage rental charges against the owners of property
within the developer’s area. Building or house connection charges shall be paid
to the town at the prevailing rate and are not refundable.
(1974 Code, § 11-3-4)
§ 52.034 OWNERSHIP.
   The town shall have exclusive control of connections to the proposed main
sewer line and upon its completion, the aforesaid main line shall become and be
the property of the town. Except as otherwise herein provided, all provisions
of the town code and ordinances or amendments thereto applicable to sewer
services, including all charges therefor, shall apply to services in the
proposed area.
(1974 Code, § 11-3-5)
DEPARTMENT AND CONSUMER RESPONSIBILITIES
§ 52.045 SEWER DEPARTMENT RESPONSIBILITIES AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   The Sewer Department shall not be responsible for the installation,
maintenance or inspection of the consumer’s service line piping or apparatus or
for any defects therein.
   (B)   The Sewer Department shall have the right to refuse service unless the
consumer’s lines or piping are installed in a manner as to prevent cross-
connections or backflow.
   (C)   Under normal conditions, the consumer shall be notified of any
anticipated interruption of service.
   (D)   The Sewer Department shall not be responsible for the negligence of
third persons or forces beyond the control of the Sewer Department resulting in
any interruption of services or damage to the property of the consumer.
   (E)   The Sewer Department may refuse service to any prospective consumer
when the capacity of the sewer system will not permit additional loads being
placed thereon.
   (F)   The Sewer Department may discontinue its service without notice for
the following reasons:
      (1)   To prevent fraud or abuse; and
      (2)   The consumer’s willful disregard of or refusal to comply with this
chapter or other rules as may be adopted by the Council.
(1974 Code, § 11-4-1)
§ 52.046 CONSUMER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Building or house sewer connections on the consumer’s premises shall
be so arranged as to provide service to one lot. If additional service is
required, it will be considered as a separate and individual account.
   (B)   The consumer’s house or building service line, sewer connection and
apparatus shall be installed and maintained by the consumer, at the consumer’s
expense, in a safe and efficient manner and in accordance with the Sewer
Department’s rules and regulations and in full compliance with the regulations
of the State Department of Health.
   (C)   The consumer shall safeguard the Sewer Department’s property placed on
the consumer’s premises and shall permit access to it only by the authorized
representatives of the Sewer Department.
   (D)   In the event that any loss or damage to the property of the Sewer
Department or any accident or injury to persons or property is caused by or
results from the negligence or wrongful act of the consumer, his or her agents
or employees, the cost of necessary repairs or replacements shall be paid by
the consumer to the Sewer Department and any liability otherwise resulting
shall be assumed by the consumer. The amount of the loss or damage or the cost
of repairs may be added to the consumer’s bill and if not paid, service may be
discontinued by the Sewer Department.
   (E)   When service to a consumer shall require the laying of any town sewer
lines or the installation of any other town property on, under, across or over
the consumer’s property, the consumer will grant to the town an easement,
right-of-way or license for the installation.
(1974 Code, § 11-4-2)
§ 52.047 INTERFERENCE WITH WATER DEPARTMENT, SEWER DEPARTMENT OR BUILDING
INSPECTOR; DIGGING UP STREETS WITHOUT PERMIT.
   It is unlawful for any person:
   (A)   To interfere in any way with the officers of the Town Water
Department, Sewer Department or Building Inspector in the discharge of any of
their duties, either in the tapping of any sewer pipe, main or lateral
belonging to the town or in the laying or connecting of the pipe, main or
lateral;
   (B)   To dig up or cause to be dug up any street or alley in the town for
the purpose of connection with the sewer system of the town without first
obtaining a permit from the Sewer Department; and/or
   (C)   Who, having a permit, to dig up any portion of any street or alley of
the town for the purpose of connecting with the sewer system of the town and
fail or neglect to place the street or alley in its original condition under
the supervision of the Sewer Department and as required by it.
(1974 Code, § 11-4-3) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.048 UNSANITARY DISPOSAL OF EXCREMENT PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to deposit or permit to be deposited in an
unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the town or in any
area under the jurisdiction of the town any human or animal excrement or other
objectionable waste.
(1974 Code, § 11-4-4) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.049 PRIVATE SEWAGE SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Compliance with subchapter. Except as provided in this subchapter, it
is unlawful to construct or maintain within the town any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the disposal of
sewage.
   (B)   When permitted; sanitation. Where a public sanitary or combined sewer
is not available within the town or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
town the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal system,
which complies with the regulations of the State Department of Public Health.
The private sewage disposal system shall be constructed, maintained and
operated at all times in a sanitary manner.
   (C)   Discontinuance. Within 90 days after a public sewer becomes available
within 300 feet of any property served by a private sewage disposal system, a
direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private
sewage facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
(1974 Code, § 11-4-5) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.050 TAMPERING WITH EQUIPMENT PROHIBITED.
   No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works.
(1974 Code, § 11-4-6) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.051 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Sewer Department.
(1974 Code, § 11-4-7) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.052 APPLICATION.
   Upon issuance of a required permit to any person, each and every permit
issued shall be presented by the person to the Sewer Department and application
made for the building connection.
(1974 Code, § 11-4-8)
§ 52.053 INSPECTION AND APPROVAL BY SEWER DEPARTMENT OR BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   No building sewer will be connected to the building connection until it has
been inspected and approved by the Sewer Department or Building Inspector.
(1974 Code, § 11-4-9)
§ 52.054 RECORDS TO BE KEPT BY SEWER DEPARTMENT.
   The Sewer Department shall keep a record of all building connections made,
the purpose for which they are to be used, together with the name of the owner
of the property, his or her agent or representative.
(1974 Code, § 11-4-10)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 52.065 PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water or
unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Except as provided in this section, no person shall discharge or cause
to be discharged any of the following described waters or wastes into any
public sewer:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F;
      (2)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 50 parts per million
by weight;
      (3)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (5)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure, grits such as brick, cement,
onyx, carbide or any other solid or viscous substance capable of causing
obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the proper
operation of the sewer works;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than five and one-half or
higher than nine or having any other corrosive property capable of causing
damage or hazard to structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works;
      (7)   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans, or animals, or create any hazard in the
receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of a character and
quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle the materials
at the sewage treatment plant; and/or
      (9)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance.
(1974 Code, § 11-5-1) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.066 INTERCEPTORS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Sewer Department, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes,
sand and other harmful ingredients; except that, the interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units.
   (B)   Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious
material capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature.
They shall be of substantial construction, water-tight and equipped with easily
removable covers which, when bolted in place, shall be gas-tight and water-
tight.
   (C)   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times.
(1974 Code, § 11-5-2) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.067 AUTHORITY OF SEWER DEPARTMENT.
   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes having any of
the following characteristics shall be subject to the review and approval of
the Sewer Department:
   (A)   A five-day biochemical oxygen demand greater than 300 parts per
million by weight;
   (B)   Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of suspended
solids;
   (C)   Containing any quantity of substance having the characteristics
described in §
52.065; and/or
   (D)   Having an average daily flow of greater than 2% of the average daily
sewage flow of the town.
(1974 Code, § 11-5-3)
§ 52.068 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT.
   (A)   Required. Where necessary in the opinion of the Sewer Department, the
owner shall provide, at his or her expense, the preliminary treatment as may be
necessary to:
      (1)   Reduce the B.O.D. to 300 parts per million and the suspended solids
to 350 parts per million by weight;
      (2)   Reduce objectionable characteristics or constituents to within the
maximum limits provided for in §
52.067; and
      (3)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of the waters or
wastes.
   (B)   Approval. Plans and specifications and any other pertinent information
relating to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for
approval of the Sewer Department and the Engineering Division of the State
Board of Health. No construction of facilities shall be commenced until
approvals are obtained in writing.
   (C)   Maintenance of facilities. Where preliminary treatment facilities are
provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(1974 Code, § 11-5-4)
§ 52.069 MANHOLES.
   When required by the Sewer Department, the owner of any property served by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation and sampling of wastes.
The manhole, when required, shall be accessible and safely located and shall be
constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Sewer Department. The
manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense and shall be
maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(1974 Code, § 11-5-5)
§ 52.070 TESTS AND ANALYSIS.
   All tests and analysis of the characteristics of waters and wastes to which
reference is made in §§
52.065,
52.067 and
52.069 shall be determined in accordance with Standard Methods for Examination
of Water and Sewage, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided
for in the preceding section or upon suitable samples taken at the control
manhole.
(1974 Code, § 11-5-6)
§ 52.071 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS WITH INDUSTRIAL CONCERNS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by, the town for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the
industrial concern.
(1974 Code, § 11-5-7)
WASTEWATER SYSTEM POLICY
§ 52.085 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADDENDUM. The document attached to the ordinance codified herein and
incorporated herein entitled, “Service Use Charge System”.
   AID-IN-CONSTRUCTION. The cost imposed by the town where the extension of any
line, any improvements or any construction for the benefit of a specific user
or any construction for the benefit of a specific user or combination of users,
the cost of which shall be assessed to those directly or indirectly affected or
benefitted.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (B.O.D.). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation or organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the wastewater
place of disposal. Also called HOUSE CONNECTION.
   CESSPOOL. An underground reservoir for liquid waste (as household sewage).
   CLASS. A classification of volume of use as described hereinafter.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   COMPLETION. When referring to the wastewater system, a date on which:
      (1)   The town has accepted the contractor’s work on the wastewater
system; and
      (2)   When effluent, sewage or wastewater can be discharged into the
system by any person.
   COMPLETION OF THE SYSTEM. The mandatory date by which any person required by
law to connect to the system must connect.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. Wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the system.
   GARBAGE. All waste resulting from use of residences, commercial trades or
businesses and institutions. Commercial and industrial waste shall be distinct
from domestic or household sanitary wastes.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Mayor and Council members of the town.
   HEARING BOARD. The Board appointed according to provision of §
52.092 to hear disputes regarding interpretations of this policy.
   HEAVY, MEDIUM AND LIGHT COMMERCIAL FLOWS. Any commercial user who discharges
waste into the system with a higher than normal (see RESIDENTIAL FLOWS)
biochemical oxygen demand, a greater than “normal” total suspended solids or a
greater than “normal” volume.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial processes, trade or
business as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive. (See SHALL.)
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
ground water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation,
partnership or group, including the United States, state, any territory, county
or political subdivision of the state which may lawfully own property.
   pH.
      (1)   The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogenous concentration.
The concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of
solution.
      (2)   Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of seven and a hydrogen-
ion concentration of ten.
   POLICY. The 1999 Town of Fredonia, Arizona, Wastewater System Policy adopted
by Ord. 99-003 on 10-13-1999.
   PRIVY. A small building having a bench with holes through which the user may
defecate or urinate.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to a degree that all particles will
be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
wastewater facilities, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27
centimeters) in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.
   RESIDENTIAL EQUIVALENT. A structure, building or unit discharging effluent
into the system placing no more burden or discharge no more effluent than
residential flows as defined hereinafter.
   RESIDENTIAL FLOWS. The assumed average or standard flow expected from a
single-family dwelling based on wintertime culinary water usage. A RESIDENTIAL
FLOW strength is 250 mg/l TSS (total suspended solids, see SUSPENDED SOLIDS)
and 200 mg/l B.O.D. (biochemical oxygen demand, see B.O.D.). Rates for volume
and strength of RESIDENTIAL FLOW are as set out in Addendum “A”.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid- and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions together
with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters that are not admitted
intentionally.
   SEPTIC TANK. A tank in which the solid matter of continuous flowing sewage
is disintegrated by bacteria.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory. (See MAY.)
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STORM DRAIN. (Sometimes termed STORM SEWER.) A drain or sewer for conveying
water, ground water, subsurface water or unpolluted water from any source.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the wastewater facility, of wastewater
treatment works, or of water pollution control of the town or his or her
authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Total suspended matter measured in milligrams per liter
that either floats on the surface of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater
or other liquids, and that is removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed
in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater and referred to
as non-filterable residue.
   SYSTEM. The wastewater or combined wastewater and storm or surface water
facilities of the town.
   TOWN. The Town of Fredonia, Coconino County, Arizona.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the wastewater
treatment facilities provided.
   USER. Any person who uses the system. (See PERSON, SYSTEM.)
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source,
it may be a combination of the liquid- and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together
with any ground water, surface water and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the
effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS.
      (1)   An arrangement of devices and structures for treating “wastewater”,
industrial wastes and sludge.
      (2)   Sometimes used as synonymous with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(1974 Code, § 11-a-1) (Res. 99-017, passed 10-13-1999; Ord. 99-003, passed 10-
13-1999)
§ 52.086 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited on public or private property within the town, or in any area under
the jurisdiction of the town, any human excrement, garbage or other
objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any wastewater or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this policy.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
   (D)   The owner(s) of all residences, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located a public wastewater collection facility of the
town or within 300 feet of the system is hereby required, at the owner(s)
expense to install suitable wastewater facilities therein, and to connect the
facilities directly with the public wastewater system in accordance with the
provisions of this policy, within 180 days after date of the official notice
from the town to do so; provided that, the wastewater collection system is
within 300 feet of the owner’s property line.
(1974 Code, § 11-a-2) (Res. 99-017, passed 10-13-1999; Ord. 99-003, passed 10-
13-1999) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.087 PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary wastewater facility is not available under the
provision of §
52.086(D), the building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater
disposal system complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater disposal
system the owner(s) shall first obtain a written permit from the governmental
entity with jurisdiction. The application for the permit shall be made on a
form furnished by the appropriate governmental entity, which the applicant
shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other information as are
deemed necessary. A permit and inspection fee shall be paid as required at the
time the application is filed.
   (C)   (1)   Permission to use the system for a private wastewater disposal
system shall not be authorized until the installation is completed in
compliance with this policy and the plans have been approved by the
governmental entity having jurisdiction.
      (2)   Authorized town employees shall be allowed to inspect the work at
any stage of construction.
      (3)   The applicant for the permit shall notify the governmental entity
issuing the permit when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered.
   (D)   (1)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private
wastewater disposal system shall comply with all requirements of the State
Department of Environmental Quality and any other applicable laws, rules and
regulations.
      (2)   No permit shall be issued for any private wastewater disposal
system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the
lot is less than 10,000 square feet.
      (3)   No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as a public wastewater sewer becomes available to a
property served by a private wastewater disposal system, as provided in
division (D) above, a direct connection shall be made to the public wastewater
sewer within 180 days, in compliance with this policy, and the private disposal
system shall be disconnected and made inoperable in compliance with applicable
laws and regulations.
   (F)   When a public wastewater sewer is not available, the owner(s) shall
operate and maintain the private wastewater disposal facilities in a sanitary
manner at all times, in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, at no
expense to the town.
   (G)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to
interfere with any additional requirement that may be imposed by the State
Department of Environmental Quality.
(1974 Code, § 11-a-3) (Res. 99-017, passed 10-13-1999; Ord. 99-003, passed 10-
13-1999) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.088 WASTEWATER SEWERS. BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS; RATES FOR USE.
   (A)   No unauthorized person(s) shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public wastewater facility or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the town.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be one class of wastewater connection to be known as
“Equivalent Residential Units (ERU)”.
      (2)   In every case, the owner(s) or agents shall make application on a
form obtained from the town. The permit application shall be supplemented by
any plans, specification or other information considered by the town.
      (3)   A fee for wastewater connection permits and inspections shall be
assessed and collected at the time the application is submitted to the town.
The fees for a connection permit shall be as follows:
Motels and restaurants                                                           $1,500
Other commercial:
   A. Light (0-10,000 gal/month)                                              $500
   B. Medium (10,001-25,000 gal/month)                                        $1,000
   C. Heavy (25,001+ gal/month)                                               $1,500
   D. An impact fee shall be paid for each equivalent residential unit (ERU)
which connects to the wastewater system after the construction of the system is  $2,000
complete. The impact fee shall be as follows: equivalent residential unit (ERU)
   E. Prior to connecting to the wastewater system, a preliminary study shall be
conducted to determine the ERU value for each connection. One year from the date
the connection occurs, actual flows shall be used to confirm the ERU value for
the connection.
Residential                                                                      $500
 
   (C)   Each person owning, occupying or having an interest in any structure
in the town, the property line of which is within 300 feet of the wastewater
collection line shall connect to the wastewater system and shall submit an
application on the form provided by the town.
   (D)   Addendum “A”, Service Use Charge System.
      (1)   Attached to this policy, as an addendum, is a document entitled
“service use charge system”, Addendum “A”. Addendum “A” is incorporated herein
and shall be referred to as “Addendum A, Service Use Charge System” or merely,
“Addendum A” in any document, pleading or proceeding pertaining to the
wastewater system of the town. The rates set forth therein may be modified by
an amendment to this policy.
      (2)   The rates set out in Addendum “A” are hereby approved and adopted.
      (3)   In order to promote equity in distribution of operation and
maintenance costs, and for no other purpose, the town will establish future
rates based entirely upon metered winter usage, effluent strength by or solely
upon the basis as defined hereinabove or upon an equitable combination of any
of those so that the costs of operation and maintenance reflected in rates will
be equitably distributed among property owners based upon their usage of and
benefit received from the system.
   (E)   All costs and expense incidental to the installation and connection of
a building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall indemnify
the town from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be caused by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (F)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to serve
the rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard, yard or driveway, then
the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building
and the whole system will be considered as one building sewer. The town does
not and shall not assume any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by
or resulting from any single connection as described herein.
   (G)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are examined and tested by the town and found to meet all
requirements of this policy.
   (H)   The size, slope, alignment, materials or construction all wastewater
connection facilities including building sewers, and the methods to be used in
excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing and backfilling the trench,
shall all conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes and
other applicable laws, rules and regulations of the town and the state. In the
absence of the code provisions, laws, rules or regulations or in amplification
thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications
of the A.S.T.M. (American Society for Testing Materials) and W.P.C.F. (Water
Pollution Control Federation) Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (I)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought from the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public wastewater
system, wastewater sewage carried by the building drain shall be lifted by an
approved means and discharged to the building sewer. Where the means are
necessary, the property owner shall be responsible for all installations,
maintenance and operating costs for their operation.
   (J)   No person(s) shall connect roof downspouts, foundation drains, areaway
drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground water to a building sewer
or building drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to the
wastewater system unless the connection is approved by the town and the State
Department of Environmental Quality for purposes of disposal of polluted
surface drainage.
   (K)   The connection of the building sewer into the wastewater system shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes and other
applicable laws, rules and regulations of the town, and the state, or in the
absence of the codes, laws, rules or regulations, the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of nationally-recognized publications of what are
known as the A.S.T.M. (American Society for Testing Materials) and the W.P.C.F.
(Water Pollution Control Federation) Manual of Practice No. 9. All connections
shall be made gas-tight and water-tight, any deviation from the prescribed
procedures and materials shall be approved by the town before installation.
   (L)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
   (M)   Regardless of who the occupant, user, tenant, co-tenant, permissive
user or any other person, firm, partnership, corporation or entities in
possession of the property to which a wastewater connection is supplied or
wastewater service made available, the owner of the property according to the
public records of the county shall be legally responsible for the payment of
all charges, fees and assessments and any other obligation or liability of a
user as set forth herein. If any delinquent wastewater connection, wastewater
use charge, repair costs, maintenance costs or any other obligation is imposed
against any premises, property, buildings or structures, the obligation shall
be deemed by town as an obligation of the owner of the real property on which
any use is made from a wastewater connection. Water service to delinquent
property shall be turned off by the town for failure to pay any and all
wastewater fees, assessments, charges or liability and will not be turned on
again to those premises where a delinquency occurs unless and until all
liabilities to the town for wastewater service are paid in full.
   (N)   Interest at the rate of 1.5% per month on all past-due accounts either
for wastewater connection fees, service use charges, maintenance, repair or any
other charge which is provided for, imposed or authorized by this policy shall
be imposed on all delinquent fees.
   (O)   Each user will be notified, at least annually, in conjunction with a
regular bill, of the rate and that portion of the use charges, which are
attributable to wastewater treatment services, operation and maintenance and
debt service.
(1974 Code, § 11-a-4) (Res. 99-017, passed 10-13-1999; Ord. 99-003, passed 10-
13-1999) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.089 ANNUAL REVIEW OF OPERATIONAL COSTS; REVISION WHERE REQUIRED; DEBT
SERVICE.
   (A)   (1)   The town shall review the total annual cost of operation and
maintenance, long-term debt service relating to the wastewater system, as well
as each user’s wastewater percentage once per year, and will revise the service
use charge system as necessary to assure equity of the system established
herein and to ensure that sufficient funds are obtained from the town’s service
use charge system to:
         (a)   Adequately operate and maintain the wastewater system; and
         (b)   Cover the debt service.
      (2)   The town will apply excess revenues collected from a class of users
to the costs of operation and maintenance attributable to that class for the
next year, and adjust this rate accordingly.
   (B)   The Addendum “A”, Service Use Charge System, shall be used as a
formula for calculating rates, fees and charges for connection, use and access
to the wastewater system.
(1974 Code, § 11-a-5) (Res. 99-017, passed 10-13-1999; Ord. 99-003, passed 10-
13-1999)
§ 52.090 USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause the discharge of any unpolluted
waters such as storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff,
subsurface drainage or cooling water to any wastewater facility, except storm
water runoff from limited areas, which storm water may be polluted at times,
and shall only be discharged into the wastewater system by permission of the
town and the State Department of Environmental Quality.
   (B)   Storm water other than that exempted under division (A) above and all
other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to the wastewater facilities as
are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to natural
outlets approved by the town and the State Department of Environmental Quality.
Unpolluted industrial cooling water or process waters shall also be discharged,
to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet as approved by the town or
the State Department of Environmental Quality.
   (C)   (1)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of
the following described water or wastes to any wastewater facilities:
         (a)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
         (b)   Any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
other wastes, to contaminate or interrupt any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard in or have an adverse effect on the waters receiving any
discharge from the works;
         (c)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the wastewater works; and
         (d)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of a size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limited to,
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastic, wood, underground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
      (2)   Each user that discharges any toxic pollutants, which cause damage
to the town wastewater system, shall be liable to the town for the damage and
for all expenses incurred by the town in repairing those system facilities.
   (D)   The following described substances, materials, waters or wastes shall
be limited in discharges to the town wastewater system to concentrations or
quantities which will not harm either the sewers, the sludge, the wastewater
system, the wastewater system process or equipment, will not have an adverse
effect on the receiving stream, or will not otherwise endanger lives, public
property or constitute a nuisance. The town may set limitations more severe
than the limitations established in the regulations below if more severe
limitations are necessary to meet the above objectives. In setting these
requirements, the town will give consideration to such factors as the quantity
of the subject waste in relation to flows and velocities in the wastewater
system, materials of construction of the sewers the wastewater treatment
process employed, capacity of the sewers, capacity of the system, and other
pertinent factors. The limitations or restrictions on materials or
characteristics of wastewaters discharged to the wastewater system which shall
not be violated without approval of the town are as follows:
      (1)   Wastewater having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Wastewater containing more than 25 milligrams per liter of
petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oils or products of mineral oil
origin;
      (3)   Wastewater from industrial plants containing floatable oil, fat or
grease;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. Garbage grinders
may be connected to wastewater sewers from homes, hotels, institutions,
restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments or similar places where garbage
originates from the preparation of food in commercial kitchens for the purpose
of consumption on the premises;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances to a degree that any material
received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the state for the materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing odor-producing substances exceeding
limits which may be established by the state;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half-life of concentration
as may exceed limits established in compliance with applicable state or federal
regulations;
      (8)   Quantities of flow, concentration or both which constitute a
“slug”, as defined herein;
      (9)   Water or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed or are
amenable to treatment only to a degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters; and
      (10)   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the wastewater system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended solids
which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition deleterious
to structures and treatment processes.
   (E)   If any water or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged
to the wastewater system, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in division (D) above, and which are determined by
the town to have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater system, processes,
equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the town may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the wastewater system;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge, and
wastes not covered by existing service use charges under the provisions of this
subchapter. If the town permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the town and the State Department of Environmental
Quality;
      (4)   A plot plan of facilities on the user’s property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility location;
      (5)   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities; and
      (6)   Details of system to prevent and control the losses of materials
through spills to the wastewater system.
   (F)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this policy shall be determined in
accordance with the aquifer protection permit for the system and the State
Department of Health Services. Sampling methods, location, times, durations and
frequencies are to be determined on an individual basis according to the
aquifer protection permit for the system.
   (G)   No provision in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing a
special agreement or arrangement between the town and an industrial user
whereby industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the town for treatment.
(1974 Code, § 11-a-6) (Res. 99-017, passed 10-13-1999; Ord. 99-003, passed 10-
13-1999) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.091 INSPECTIONS, INDUSTRIAL WASTE.
   (A)   Duly authorized employees of the town bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter all properties, at all reasonable
times, for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and
testing pertinent to discharge to the wastewater system in accordance with the
provisions of this policy.
   (B)   Duly authorized town employees are authorized to obtain information
concerning industrial processes, which have a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the wastewater system. Industrial users may request that
the information be deemed confidential and exempt from the State Public Records
Law, being A.R.S. §§ 39-101 et seq., when they have established that the
revelation of the information to the public might result in an advantage to
competitors.
   (C)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when liquid wastes
containing floatable grease in excessive amounts as specified in §
52.090(D), or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients are
introduced into wastewater system; except that, the interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the town’s adopted Plumbing Code, and
shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. In maintaining these interceptors, the owner(s) shall be
responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the
captivated material and shall maintain records of the dates and means of
disposal, which are subject to review by the town. Any removal and hauling of
the collected materials not performed by the owner’s personnel must be
performed by a state licensed waste disposal firm.
   (D)   Where pretreatment or flow-equalization facilities are provided or
required for any water or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner(s) at the owner’s expense.
   (E)   When determined necessary by the town, the owner(s) of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable structure together with the necessary meters and other appurtenances
in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of
the wastes. The structures, when required, shall be accessible and safely
located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
town. The structure shall be installed by the owner at his, her or their
expense, and shall be maintained so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   (F)   The town may require any user of wastewater system services to provide
information needed to determine compliance with this policy. These requirements
may include:
      (1)   Wastewater’s discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period;
      (2)   Chemical analysis of wastewater;
      (3)   Information on raw materials, processes and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality; and
      (4)   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent
or other materials important to wastewater control.
   (G)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
herein, duly authorized employees of the town shall observe all safety rules
applicable to the premises as established by the town.
   (H)   Duly authorized employees of the town bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter all private properties, at all
reasonable times, through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the
easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated
easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(1974 Code, § 11-a-7) (Res. 99-017, passed 10-13-1999; Ord. 99-003, passed 10-
13-1999)
§ 52.092 HEARING BOARD.
   A Hearing Board may be appointed as needed for arbitration of differences
between the town and wastewater system users on matters concerning
interpretation and execution of the provisions of this policy by the town. The
Board shall meet once every three months unless its services are determined to
be necessary more often by the town. One member shall be a representative of a
local commercial enterprise. One member shall be a residential user selected at
large for his or her interest in accomplishing the objectives of this policy.
As the Board deems necessary and upon concurrence by the town, a qualified
attorney may be consulted by the Board on a specific case. Written notice of
the scheduled meeting shall be provided to the user. The decision of the Board
may be appealed to the Town Council. The decision of the Town Council shall be
final.
(1974 Code, § 11-a-8) (Res. 99-017, passed 10-13-1999; Ord. 99-003, passed 10-
13-1999)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
52.085 through
52.092 shall be served by the town with written notice stating the nature of
the violation; and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The violator shall, within the period of time stated in the
notice, permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of §§
52.085 through
52.092 shall be guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor as provided by statute and the
town code and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine not to exceed
$2,500 or be imprisoned for a period not to exceed 60 days, or by both the fine
and imprisonment. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense punishable as provided herein.
      (3)   In addition to the penalty provided above, any person violating any
of the provisions of §§
52.085 through
52.092 shall be liable to the town for the expense, loss or damage to the town
by reason of the violation.
(1974 Code, § 11-a-9) (Res. 99-017, passed 10-13-1999; Ord. 99-003, passed 10-
13-1999; Ord. 12-003, passed 8-8-2012)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   ADMINISTRATION
      
71.   TRAFFIC CONTROL
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
70.01   Duty of Police Chief
   
70.02   Records of traffic violations
   
70.03   Police Chief to investigate accidents
   
70.04   Traffic accident studies
   
70.05   Traffic accident reports
§ 70.01 DUTY OF POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Police Chief to provide for the
enforcement of the street traffic regulations of the town and all of the state
vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in the town, to make arrests for
traffic violations, to investigate accidents and to assist in developing ways
and means to improve traffic conditions and to carry out all duties specially
imposed upon the Police Chief by this traffic code.
   (B)   Any peace officer of the town may be authorized by the Police Chief to
perform any of the duties of the Police Chief included in this traffic code.
(1974 Code, § 12-1-1)
§ 70.02 RECORDS OF TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Police Chief shall keep a record of all violations of the traffic
laws of the town or of the state vehicle laws of which any person has been
charged, together with a record of the final disposition of all alleged
offenses. The record shall accumulate during at least a five-year period and,
from that time on, the record shall be maintained complete for at least the
most recent five-year period.
   (B)   All forms for records of violations and notices shall be serially
numbered. For each month and year, a written record shall be kept available to
the public showing the disposal of all forms.
   (C)   All records and reports shall be public records.
(1974 Code, § 12-1-2)
§ 70.03 POLICE CHIEF TO INVESTIGATE ACCIDENTS.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Chief to investigate traffic accidents
and to arrest and assist in the prosecution of those persons charged with
violations of law causing or contributing to the accidents.
(1974 Code, § 12-1-3)
§ 70.04 TRAFFIC ACCIDENT STUDIES.
   Whenever the accidents at any particular location become numerous, the
Police Chief shall conduct studies of the accidents and determine remedial
measures.
(1974 Code, § 12-1-4)
§ 70.05 TRAFFIC ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   (A)   The Police Chief shall maintain a suitable system of filing traffic
accident reports. Accident reports or cards referring to them shall be filed
alphabetically by location.
   (B)   The Police Chief shall receive and properly file all accident reports
made to him or her under state law or under any law of the town, but all
accident reports made by drivers shall be for the confidential use of the town
and no report shall be admissible in any civil or criminal proceeding other
than upon request of any person making the report or upon request of the court
having jurisdiction, to prove a compliance with the laws requiring the making
of any report.
(1974 Code, § 12-1-5)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC CONTROL
Section
   
71.01   Directing traffic
   
71.02   Obedience to traffic regulations
   
71.03   Standing with motor running
   
71.04   Use of coasters, roller skates and similar devices restricted
   
71.05   Traffic control devices
   
71.06   Authority to designate crosswalks, establish safety zones and mark
traffic lanes
   
71.07   Authority to place and obedience to turning markers
   
71.08   Authority to place and obedience to restricted turn signs
   
71.09   Limitations on turning around
   
71.10   One-way streets and alleys
   
71.11   Regulation of traffic at intersections
   
71.12   Drivers to obey signs
   
71.13   Processions
   
71.14   Jake brakes
   
71.15   Driving on flood control dikes
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Editor’s note:
   This chapter was revised 4- -1987.
§ 71.01 DIRECTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   The Police Chief is hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice,
hand or signal.
   (B)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the Police Chief in directing traffic thereat or in the
immediate vicinity.
(1974 Code, § 12-2-1)
§ 71.02 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required by this chapter.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to willfully fail or refuse to comply
with any lawful order or direction of the Police Chief or of any Fire
Department official.
(1974 Code, § 12-2-2) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 STANDING WITH MOTOR RUNNING.
   It is unlawful for any motor vehicle to be permitted to stand alone upon any
street with any part of its machinery running.
(1974 Code, § 12-2-3) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 USE OF COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES AND SIMILAR DEVICES RESTRICTED.
   It is unlawful for any person upon roller skates or riding any coaster, toy
vehicle or similar device to go upon any roadway, except while crossing a
street on a crosswalk and, when crossing, the person shall be granted all of
the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians.
(1974 Code, § 12-2-4) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The Police Chief, with the approval of the Council, shall place and
maintain traffic control devices, signs and signals when and as required under
the traffic regulations of the town to make effective the provisions of the
regulations, and may place and maintain additional traffic control devices as
he or she may deem necessary to regulate traffic under the traffic laws of the
town or under state law or to guide or warn traffic.
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the traffic
regulations of the town unless otherwise directed by the Police Chief, subject
to the exceptions granted in this chapter or by state law.
(1974 Code, § 12-2-5) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 AUTHORITY TO DESIGNATE CROSSWALKS, ESTABLISH SAFETY ZONES AND MARK
TRAFFIC LANES.
   The Police Chief is hereby authorized, on approval by the Council:
   (A)   To designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon
the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where, in his or her
opinion, there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway and at
other places as he or she may deem necessary;
   (B)   To establish safety zones of the kind and character and at the places
as he or she may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians; and
   (C)   To mark lanes for traffic on street pavements at the places as he or
she may deem advisable, consistent with the traffic laws of the town.
(1974 Code, § 12-2-6)
§ 71.07 AUTHORITY TO PLACE AND OBEDIENCE TO TURNING MARKERS.
   (A)   The Police Chief is authorized to place markers, buttons or signs
within or adjacent to intersections indicating the course to be traveled by
vehicles turning at the intersections, and the course to be traveled as so
indicated may conform to or be other than as prescribed by law.
   (B)   When authorized markers, buttons or other indications are placed
within an intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning
thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of the
indications.
(1974 Code, § 12-2-7) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08 AUTHORITY TO PLACE AND OBEDIENCE TO RESTRICTED TURN SIGNS.
   (A)   The Police Chief, on approval by the Council, is hereby authorized to
determine those intersections at which drivers of vehicles shall not make a
right, left or u-turn, and shall place proper signs at the intersections. The
making of the turns may be prohibited between certain hours of any day and
permitted at other hours; in which event, the same shall be plainly indicated
on the signs or the signs may be removed when the turns are permitted.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or u-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of
any sign.
(1974 Code, § 12-2-8) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.09 LIMITATIONS ON TURNING AROUND.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction upon any street in a business district and shall not, upon
any other street, so turn a vehicle unless the movement can be made in safety
and without interfering with other traffic.
(1974 Code, § 12-2-9) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.10 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   The Council shall, by resolution, designate any streets or alleys
which are to be limited to one-way traffic.
   (B)   When any resolution of the Council designates any one-way street or
alley, the Police Chief shall place and maintain signs giving notice thereof,
and no regulation shall be effective unless the signs are in place. Signs
indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every
intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(1974 Code, § 12-2-10)
§ 71.11 REGULATION OF TRAFFIC AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The Council shall, by resolution, designate through streets,
intersections where stops are required and intersections where vehicles shall
yield the right-of-way.
   (B)   When any resolution of the Council shall designate any through street
or intersection where vehicles are to stop or yield the right-of-way, the
Police Chief shall erect and maintain the appropriate signs at every location
where a vehicle must stop or yield the right-of-way.
(1974 Code, § 12-2-11)
§ 71.12 DRIVERS TO OBEY SIGNS.
   Whenever traffic signs are erected as provided in this chapter, every driver
of a vehicle shall obey the signs unless directed to proceed by the Police
Chief or a traffic control signal. No driver shall drive upon or through any
private property such as an oil station, vacant lot or similar property to
avoid obedience to any regulation included in this chapter.
(1974 Code, § 12-2-12) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.13 PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   No procession or parade, except funeral processions, shall be held
without first securing a permit from the Police Chief, and all requests for
permits shall state the time, place of formation, proposed line of march,
destination and other regulations as the Police Chief may set forth therein.
   (B)   A funeral procession composed of a procession of vehicles shall be
identified by the methods as may be determined and designated by the Police
Chief.
   (C)   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a
funeral or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when the
vehicles are conspicuously designated. This provision shall not apply at
intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic control signals or the
Police Chief.
   (D)   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to
the right-hand edge of the roadway as practical and shall follow the vehicle
ahead as close as is practical and safe.
(1974 Code, § 12-2-13) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.14 JAKE BRAKES.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle within the town limits with
the assistance of a “jake brake”, or to otherwise employ a “jake brake” or
similar device considered to be a safety hazard by the Chief of Police in the
handling or driving of a truck on any street or highway within the town.
(1974 Code, § 12-2-4) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.15 DRIVING ON FLOOD CONTROL DIKES.
   No unauthorized person shall drive a motorized vehicle on the property which
contains the flood control dikes of the town.
(1974 Code, § 12-2-15) (Ord. 04-003, passed 11-23-2004) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A person violating §
71.15 is guilty of a class 2 misdemeanor and, in addition to any fine, shall be
required to reimburse the town for any damage caused to property.
(1974 Code, § 12-2-15) (Ord. 04-003, passed 11-23-2004)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Method of parking
   
72.02   Blocking traffic
   
72.03   Parking adjacent to schools
   
72.04   Authority to erect signs restricting parking
   
72.05   Parking vehicles on sidewalks
   
72.06   Abandoned vehicles
   
72.07   Truck parking
Editor’s note:
   This chapter was revised 4- -1987.
§ 72.01 METHOD OF PARKING.
   Except as otherwise provided by resolution of the Council, every vehicle
stopped or parked upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs shall be so
stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle parallel to and
within 18 inches of the right-hand curb.
(1974 Code, § 12-3-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.02 BLOCKING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park any motor
vehicle, or other vehicle, upon a street in the town in a manner or under
conditions as to leave available less than 20 feet of the width of the roadway
for the free movement of vehicular traffic; except that, a person may stop
temporarily, in the actual loading or unloading of passengers or, when
necessary, in the observance of traffic signs or signals of the Police Chief.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle, or other
vehicle, within an alley or entrance to a private driveway, except for the
loading or unloading of materials, and not then unless the loading or unloading
can be accomplished without blocking the alley to the free movement of
vehicular traffic.
(1974 Code, § 12-3-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.03 PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS.
   When signs are erected indicating no parking on that side of the street
adjacent to any school property, no person shall park a vehicle in any
designated place for one hour before school opens until one hour after school
closes on any school day.
(1974 Code, § 12-3-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.04 AUTHORITY TO ERECT SIGNS RESTRICTING PARKING.
   The Police Chief, upon approval by the Council, may erect signs requiring
parking at an angle to the curb, allowing parking on the left-hand curb on one-
way streets, notifying drivers that parking is prohibited, and restricting
parking in any way that may be necessary. No parking restrictions shall become
effective until the restricted parking area is specifically designated by
resolution of the Council and signs have been erected as authorized by this
section. It is unlawful for any person to stop or stand a vehicle in
disobedience to the parking restrictions.
(1974 Code, § 12-3-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.05 PARKING VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for any person to park any vehicle, whether in usable
condition or not, or for an owner to permit his or her vehicle to be parked
upon any sidewalk in the town.
(1974 Code, § 12-3-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.06 ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   Any vehicle remaining parked upon any sidewalk of the town for more than
three days, or any disabled vehicle remaining parked upon any street of the
town for more than seven days, is declared to be an abandoned vehicle and the
police shall forthwith remove the same from the sidewalks or streets of the
town at the expense of the owner of the vehicle.
(1974 Code, § 12-3-6)
§ 72.07 TRUCK PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any commercial truck or semi-trailer with a
potential loaded gross weight in excess of 10,000 pounds to park on a public
street or right-of-way within the town, except on those streets which are also
designated as state highways. This shall include commercial truck tractors and
trailers or semi-trailers not carried by or attached to another vehicle. PARK
shall mean stopping or standing for any period of time, and other terms used
herein shall have that meaning defined in A.R.S. § 28-101.
(1974 Code, § 12-3-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   FAIR HOUSING
      
91.   PUBLIC LIBRARY
      
92.   GARBAGE AND LITTER; LANDFILL
      
93.   CEMETERY REGULATIONS
      
94.   ANIMALS
      
95.   SMOKE-FREE AIR REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 90: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
90.01   Policy adopted
§ 90.01 POLICY ADOPTED.
   The Mayor and Council of the town hereby wish all persons living, working,
doing business in or traveling through this town to know that:
   (A)   Discrimination in the sale, rental, leasing and financing of housing
or land to be used for construction of housing, or in the provision of
brokerage services on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin is prohibited by Title VIII of the Fair
Housing Act Amendments of 1988; and that it is the policy of the town to
implement programs, within the constraints of its resources, to ensure equal
opportunity in housing for all persons regardless of race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin;
   (B)   Within available resources the town will assist all persons who feel
they have been discriminated against in housing issues on the basis of race,
color, religion, sex, handicap familial status or national origin LO seek
equity under existing Federal and state laws to file a compliant with the
Arizona Attorney General’s Office or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development; and
   (C)   The town shall publicize the Fair Housing Resolution and thereby
encourage owners of rental properties, developers, builders and others involved
with housing to become aware of their respective responsibilities and rights
under the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988 and any applicable state or local
laws or ordinances; and that the town shall undertake the following actions to
additionally “affirmatively further fair housing:”
      (1)   Mailing copies of the Fair Housing Resolution to the real estate
community, developers; and
      (2)   Posting copies of this resolution at the Town Office and Senior
Citizen Center.
(Res. 11-004, passed 4-12-2011; Res. 14-003, passed 3-11-2014; Res. 2015-002,
passed 4-14-2015)
CHAPTER 91: PUBLIC LIBRARY
Section
   
91.01   Objectives
   
91.02   Responsibility
   
91.03   Cooperation with other libraries
   
91.04   Fines for overdue books
   
91.05   Hours of service
   
91.06   Displays and exhibits
   
91.07   Borrowers’ cards
   
91.08   Objectives of service
   
91.09   Donation and gift policy
   
91.10   Computer, scanner, copying and facsimile costs
§ 91.01 OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   It is the objective of the town library to provide circulation
material and reference service to meet or supplement the needs of the town’s
area residents of all ages. To implement this objective, major emphasis shall
be placed on the educational and informational service of the library. For this
purpose, representative materials are selected and maintained for general
information, education, occupational and industrial uses, and the enjoyment and
enrichment of leisure time.
   (B)   The library will try to provide programs of public interest for all
age groups and will try to work cooperatively with schools and other community
agencies and groups.
   (C)   The library will try to evaluate and anticipate the needs of the
community. The library will try to buy books to serve the different needs of
the community.
   (D)   The library does not serve any single group, race, creed, occupation,
color or financial position. In the case of controversial topics, the library
will try to accommodate various viewpoints.
   (E)   The library shall follow prescribed criteria in selecting various
types of materials for use by library patrons.
   (F)   The policies of the town’s public library shall be determined by the
Library Board of Trustees subject to approval by the Town Council. Members will
meet at least quarterly. They may meet monthly, if needed; but if not, the
librarian will send them written report in lieu of the meeting. At meetings,
members will receive the librarian’s reports, discuss the library’s activities
and advise on the general principles of management.
(1974 Code, Art. 19A.) (Res. 99-026, passed 12-23-1999; Res. 99-027, passed 12-
23-1999; Ord. 99-006, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 99-007, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 91.02 RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Responsibilities of the Library Advisory Board.
      (1)   The Library Advisory Board shall serve in an advisory capacity.
      (2)   The Library Advisory Board members shall voluntarily accept their
appointment to the Library Advisory Board.
      (3)   The Board members shall educate themselves about the general trends
of library development.
      (4)   Library Advisory Board members shall promote the library program in
the community.
      (5)   Each Board member is expected to assist with library projects
throughout the year.
   (B)   Responsibilities of the Town Librarian.
      (1)   Work with the Library Advisory Board to determine internal library
policies and the implementation of them;
      (2)   Help the Library Advisory Board to formulate and administer the
library budget;
      (3)   Promote good public relations for the library, including working
with various community service organizations;
      (4)   Plan for future development of the library;
      (5)   Promote and implement methods for cooperation between libraries in
the community and the state; and
      (6)   Work with county and state librarians to develop the library
service on the local level.
(1974 Code, Art. 19B.) (Res. 99-026, passed 12-23-1999; Res. 99-027, passed 12-
23-1999; Ord. 99-006, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 99-007, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 91.03 COOPERATION WITH OTHER LIBRARIES.
   (A)   The Library Advisory Board and the town librarian may cooperate with
other libraries to strengthen the services and resources of the town library.
   (B)   (1)   A request for specialized material or material for which there
is only an occasional demand shall be met by interlibrary loan.
      (2)   This service is free; however, there shall be a $2 postage fee per
book.
(1974 Code, Art. 19C.) (Res. 99-026, passed 12-23-1999; Res. 99-027, passed 12-
23-1999; Ord. 99-006, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 99-007, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 91.04 FINES FOR OVERDUE BOOKS.
   (A)   Fines will be charged for overdue books.
   (B)   A patron will be restricted from checking out books until all fines
are paid.
(1974 Code, Art. 19D.) (Res. 99-026, passed 12-23-1999; Res. 99-027, passed 12-
23-1999; Ord. 99-006, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 99-007, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 91.05 HOURS OF SERVICE.
   Library open hours shall be determined by the town librarian.
(1974 Code, Art. 19E.) (Res. 99-026, passed 12-23-1999; Res. 99-027, passed 12-
23-1999; Ord. 99-006, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 99-007, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 91.06 DISPLAYS AND EXHIBITS.
   (A)   Displays, posters or signs placed in the library must be with the
approval of and at the discretion of the town librarian.
   (B)   No outside organization or individual shall be permitted to display
any material which advocates the election or defeat of a candidate for public
office, or which advocates an affirmative or negative vote for any
propositions, whether political or not.
   (C)   No outside organization or individual shall be permitted to place in
the library a box, receptacle or canister which solicits donations.
(1974 Code, Art. 19F.) (Res. 99-026, passed 12-23-1999; Res. 99-027, passed 12-
23-1999; Ord. 99-006, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 99-007, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 91.07 BORROWERS’ CARDS.
   Library cards may be issued to all members in a family who are at least
school age. A parent or guardian must sign a library registration card and
agree to be responsible for loans to minor children. The first card may be
issued free of charge to all residents of the county with a valid driver’s
license or identification and proof of address and the surrounding areas
included within the Fredonia Moccasin School District, who have resided in the
area for six months. Those families residing in the surrounding areas, included
within the Fredonia Moccasin School district, for less than six months may
receive a library card upon payment of a $20 refundable deposit. Residents of
Utah with a valid driver’s license of identification and proof of address may
receive a card for the nominal yearly fee of$20 per family. There is no charge
for lost or damaged cards because all information is already in the computer.
(1974 Code, Art. 19G.) (Res. 99-026, passed 12-23-1999; Res. 99-027, passed 12-
23-1999; Ord. 99-006, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 99-007, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 91.08 OBJECTIVES OF SERVICE.
   The library will try to maintain a balance of material on all sides of
issues and will try to maintain the democratic principles expressed by the
American Library Association in both the Library Bill of Rights and the Freedom
to Read statement.
(1974 Code, Art. 19H.) (Res. 99-026, passed 12-23-1999; Res. 99-027, passed 12-
23-1999; Ord. 99-006, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 99-007, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 91.09 DONATION AND GIFT POLICY.
   (A)   General policy.
      (1)   The library shall not accept library materials that are not
outright donations. For any donation accepted, the library has the sole right
to make use of accepted donated items in the way it determines is the most
advantageous use. Donated books and other materials shall be accepted with a
statement to the donor that no commitment can be made as to final disposition
and that items may not be added to the library collection. The same criteria
used for the purchase of library materials will be used in determining whether
to accept donated materials, including whether or not an item belongs in a
museum rather than a library.
      (2)   Accepted donations will be shelved with the regular collection
where they can be utilized, rather than on separate shelves that take them out
of logical sequence.
   (B)   Memorial books. The library welcomes donations of books, other library
items and materials.
      (1)   Donors wishing to present memorial donations should contact the
town librarian.
      (2)   Materials accepted must conform to the criteria established for
selection of materials for use by library patrons.
      (3)   A donor may make a specific request for how his or her monetary
contributions may be utilized; however, the final decision shall be left to the
discretion of the town librarian. If the donor has had a specific field of
interest, books reflecting that interest may be purchased.
      (4)   Whenever possible, memorial items may be placed according to the
donor’s wishes. The final decision, however, shall be left to the discretion of
the town librarian.
      (5)   Checks for materials shall be made payable to the “Fredonia Public
Library”. A thank you note shall be sent to the donor or notification of the
donation shall be sent to the family on behalf or whom the donation was made.
      (6)   Whenever possible, materials may have placed upon them a donation
plate or label honoring the name of the person who donated the item.
(1974 Code, Art. 19I.) (Res. 99-026, passed 12-23-1999; Res. 99-027, passed 12-
23-1999; Ord. 99-006, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 99-007, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 12-
004, passed 8-8-2012)
§ 91.10 COMPUTER, SCANNER, COPYING AND FACSIMILE COSTS.
   (A)   Computer use is limited to one-half hour of free time. After that, if
no one else is waiting to use it, a patron may continue to use it. Non-card
holders are charged at $1.50 per one-half hour.
   (B)   All printer paper will be charged at $0.10 per sheet.
   (C)   The scanner is available for patron use free of charge and will be
included in the one-half hour computer use.
   (D)   A copy machine is available for patron use at $0.10 per page.
   (E)   A fax machine is available for sending and receiving faxes. The cost
to send a fax is $0.25 per page. The cost to receive a fax is $0.25 per page.
(1974 Code, Art. 19J.) (Res. 99-026, passed 12-23-1999; Res. 99-027, passed 12-
23-1999; Ord. 99-006, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 99-007, passed 1-25-2000)
CHAPTER 92: GARBAGE AND LITTER; LANDFILL
Section
Garbage and Trash Removal
   
92.01   Hauling refuse
   
92.02   Vehicles and receptacles to be spill-proof
   
92.03   Spilled refuse
   
92.04   Dumping refuse
   
92.05   Burning prohibited
   
92.06   Use of receptacles
Removal of Litter
   
92.20   Definitions
   
92.21   Litter on private property
   
92.22   Owner to maintain premises
   
92.23   Weeds
   
92.24   Procedure to compel removal of litter
   
92.25   Notice to remove
   
92.26   Service of notice
   
92.27   Appeal to Council
   
92.28   Removal by town
   
92.29   Lien for removal
   
92.30   Placement of debris
   
92.31   Violation
Sanitary Landfill
   
92.45   Rules and regulations
Editor’s note:
   This chapter was revised in the year 2000.
GARBAGE AND TRASH REMOVAL
§ 92.01 HAULING REFUSE.
   It is unlawful for any person to haul or cause to be hauled any refuse on or
along any public street, avenue or alley in the town, in violation of any of
the provisions in this subchapter.
(1974 Code, § 9-1-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.02 VEHICLES AND RECEPTACLES TO BE SPILL-PROOF.
   It is unlawful for any person to haul or cause to be hauled on or along any
public street in the town any garbage, unless the garbage is contained in
strong water-tight vehicles or vehicles with water-tight receptacles,
constructed to prevent any garbage from falling, leaking or spilling and any
odor from escaping.
(1974 Code, § 9-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.03 SPILLED REFUSE.
   Any person hauling any refuse along the streets of the town shall
immediately replace in the conveyance used for hauling any refuse which may
fall upon any street.
(1974 Code, § 9-1-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.04 DUMPING REFUSE.
   It is unlawful for any person to place or cause to be placed any refuse upon
any public or private property within the town. All refuse shall be deposited
in the sanitary landfill designated by the Council.
(1974 Code, § 9-1-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.05 BURNING PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to set fire or burn any materials, including,
but not limited to, garbage, refuse, rubbish or trash within the corporate
limits of the town.
(1974 Code, § 9-1-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.06 USE OF RECEPTACLES.
   Garbage receptacles are provided by the town to specific households,
dwelling complexes and businesses in connection with the town’s provision of
garbage collection and disposal services. The use of the receptacles is
restricted to garbage generated by or within the specific household, dwelling
complex or business to which the receptacle is assigned, and it is unlawful for
any person to deposit or cause to be deposited any garbage, refuse or other
item or material not generated by or within the household, dwelling complex or
business.
(1974 Code, § 9-1-6) (Ord. 00-014, passed 7-11-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
REMOVAL OF LITTER
§ 92.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LITTER. Any rubbish, trash, weeds, filth and debris which shall constitute a
hazard to public health and safety and shall include all putrescible and non-
putrescible solid wastes including garbage, trash, ashes, street cleanings,
dead animals, abandoned automobiles and solid market and industrial waste; any
deposit, accumulation, pile or heap of brush, grass, debris, weeds, cans,
cloth, paper, wood, rubbish or other unsightly or unsanitary matter of any kind
whatsoever; and any growth of weeds, brush, grass or other vegetable growth to
a height of over six inches.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. Any dwelling, house, building or other structure, designed
or used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes, whether
inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and shall
include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps or vestibules belonging
or appurtenant to the dwelling, house, building or other structures.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways, and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and
buildings.
(1974 Code, § 9-2-1)
§ 92.21 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied or unoccupied
private property within the town, whether owned by the person or not; except
that, the owner or person in control of private property may maintain
authorized private receptacles for collection in a manner that litter will be
prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any public
place.
(1974 Code, § 9-2-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.22 OWNER TO MAINTAIN PREMISES.
   The owner or person in control of any private property shall, at all times,
maintain the premises free of litter; provided, however, that, this section
shall not prohibit the storage of litter in authorized private receptacles for
collection.
(1974 Code, § 9-2-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.23 WEEDS.
   It is unlawful for any person owning, occupying or controlling any real
property within the corporate limits of the town, or the agent or
representative of any owner or occupant, to allow weeds or noxious vegetable
growth to remain in or on the real property, or in or on the alleys abutting
thereon, or the sidewalk area in the front thereof to the curb line of the
street for 48 hours after the receipt of notice from the Supervisor of Streets,
Town Manager or Council to remove the same.
(1974 Code, § 9-2-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.24 PROCEDURE TO COMPEL REMOVAL OF LITTER.
   The Manager shall enforce the provisions of §§
92.22 and
92.23 by prosecuting violators of those sections in the Town Magistrate Court
pursuant to the criminal provisions of this code. If the prosecution fails to
secure compliance with the provisions of the sections, or in the event of
inability to prosecute violators by reason of failure to secure jurisdiction
over their persons, the Manager shall compel the removal of litter by the
procedure outlined in this section and §§
92.25 through
92.28.
(1974 Code, § 9-2-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.25 NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   To compel the removal of litter through the provisions of this section and
of §§
92.26,
92.27,
92.28 and
92.29, if a person owning or controlling any property fails, neglects or
refuses to remove or properly dispose of litter located on property owned or
controlled by the person, he or she shall be given written notice by the
Manager to remove all litter from the property within 30 days from the date the
notice was received by him or her, and prior to the date of compliance on the
notice. The notice shall be received not less than 30 days before the date set
thereon for compliance, and shall contain an estimate of the cost of removal by
the town, a statement that unless the person owning or controlling the property
complies therewith within 30 days from the date the written notice is received
that the town will, at the expense of the person owning or controlling the
property, perform the necessary work at a cost not to exceed the estimate given
in the notice, and that the person may appeal in writing to the Council within
30 days from the date the notice is received by him or her and prior to the
date of compliance.
(1974 Code, § 9-2-6)
§ 92.26 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   Notice shall be personally served on the owner or person controlling the
property, by a police officer of the town in the manner provided in Rule 4(d)
of the State Rules of Civil Procedure, or mailed to the owner or person
controlling the property at his or her last known address by certified or
registered mail, or the address to which the tax bill for the property was last
mailed. If the owner does not reside on the property, a duplicate notice shall
also be sent to him or her by certified or registered mail at his or her last
known address.
(1974 Code, § 9-2-7)
§ 92.27 APPEAL TO COUNCIL.
   (A)   Prior to the date set for compliance on the notice, the owner or
person controlling the property may appeal in writing to the Council from the
demand of the Manager. The Council shall, at its next regular meeting after
receiving the appeal, hear and determine the same and the decision of the
Council shall be final.
   (B)   The Council may either affirm or reverse the decision of the Manager
or modify the scope of the work as required in the notice.
(1974 Code, § 9-2-8)
§ 92.28 REMOVAL BY TOWN.
   When any person to whom notice, as aforesaid, has been given, and on or
before the date of compliance on the notice, or within the further time as may
have been granted by the Council on appeal, fails, neglects or refuses to move
from the property any or all litter, the Manager is authorized and directed to
cause same to be removed and disposed of at the expense of the owner or person
controlling the property. Upon completion of the work, the Manager shall
prepare a verified statement of account of the actual cost of the removal or
abatement, the date the work was completed and the street address and the legal
description of the property on which the work was done, including 5% for
additional inspection and other incidental costs in connection therewith, and
shall serve a duplicate copy of the verified statement upon the person owning
or controlling the property in the manner prescribed in §
92.26. The owner or person controlling the property shall have 30 days from the
date of service upon him or her to appeal in writing to the Council from the
amount of the assessment as contained in the verified statement. If an appeal
is not filed with the Manager within the 30-day period, then the amount of the
assessment as determined by the Manager shall become final and binding. If an
appeal is taken, the Council shall, at its next regular meeting, hear and
determine the appeal and may affirm the amount of the assessment, modify the
amount thereof, or determine that no assessment at all shall be made. The
decision of the Council shall be final and binding on all persons.
(1974 Code, § 9-2-9)
§ 92.29 LIEN FOR REMOVAL.
   If no appeal is taken from the amount of the assessment, or if an appeal is
taken and the Council has affirmed or modified the amount of the assessment,
the original assessment or the assessment as so modified shall be recorded in
the office of the County Recorder and, from the date of its recording, shall be
a lien on the lot or tract of land until paid. The liens shall be subject and
inferior to the lien for general taxes and to all prior recorded mortgages and
encumbrances of record. A sale of the property to satisfy a lien obtained under
the provisions of this section shall be made upon judgment of foreclosure or
order of sale. The town shall have the right to bring an action to enforce the
lien in the Superior Court at any time after the recording of the assessment,
but failure to enforce the lien by the action shall not affect its validity.
The recorded assessment shall be prima facie evidence of the truth of all
matters recited therein, and of the regularity of all proceedings prior to the
recording thereof. A prior assessment for the purposes provided in this section
shall not be a bar to a subsequent assessment or assessments for such purposes,
and any number of liens on the same lot or tract of land may be enforced in the
same action.
(1974 Code, § 9-2-10)
§ 92.30 PLACEMENT OF DEBRIS.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall place any rubbish, trash, filth or
debris upon any private or public property not owned or under the control of
the person, firm or corporation shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, in
addition to any fine which may be imposed for violation of any provision of
this section, shall be liable for all costs which may be assessed pursuant to
this subchapter for the removal of the rubbish, trash, filth or debris.
(1974 Code, § 9-2-11)
§ 92.31 VIOLATION.
   Any persons in violation of this subchapter of the Health and Sanitation
Code shall constitute a breech of agreement in regard to utilities and are
subject to disconnect.
(1974 Code, § 9-2-12)
SANITARY LANDFILL
§ 92.45 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Council shall from time to time adopt, by resolution, rules and
regulations and rates governing the use of the sanitary landfill.
(1974 Code, § 9-3-1)
CHAPTER 93: CEMETERY REGULATIONS
Section
   
93.01   Cemetery description
   
93.02   Administration
   
93.03   Cemetery Manager, Sextant
   
93.04   Record keeping
   
93.05   Financial liability
   
93.06   Division of cemetery property
   
93.07   Sale of Deeds of Conveyance
   
93.08   Burial restrictions
   
93.09   Burial permit, interments
   
93.10   Disinterments, reinterments
   
93.11   Grave markers, monuments
   
93.12   Maintenance
   
93.13    Regulations applicable to the general public
§ 93.01 CEMETERY DESCRIPTION.
   The northeast half of the northeast quarter of the northwest quarter of
Section 21, Township 41 North, Range 2 West, Gila and Salt River Base and
Meridian, shall be reserved for the interment of deceased human remains and
shall be known as the Fredonia Cemetery. Said cemetery is the property of the
Town of Fredonia, Arizona and shall be regulated by all provisions and
regulations contained herein pursuant to A.R.S. Title 32, Ch. 20, Art. 6.
(Ord. 15-001, passed 1-27-2015)
§ 93.02 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The general control and management of the cemetery shall be the
responsibility of the Town Council.
   (B)   The Town Council may make, adopt, amend, add to, revise or modify and
enforce rules and regulations for the use, care, control, restriction and
protection of all or any part of the cemetery as outlined in A.R.S. § 32-
2194.20.
   (C)   Authority for oversight of the cemetery operations is hereby delegated
to the Fredonia Cemetery Committee by the Town Council.
   (D)   The Cemetery Committee shall consist of five members of the community
appointed by the Town Council. At least one member shall be a member of the
Town Council. Officers of the committee shall be a Chairperson and a Secretary.
   (E)   Members shall serve four-year terms and serve without compensation.
The Town Council shall fill committee vacancies. The sitting Town Council
member’s term expires at the discretion of the Town Council.
   (F)   All Cemetery Committee meetings must be open to the public in
accordance with A.R.S. §§ 38-431.01 and 38-431.02. The Committee must meet at
least quarterly.
   (G)   A majority of the Committee members must be present to have a quorum.
A vote of the majority of the Committee members present at a given meeting
shall constitute an affirmative recommendation of the Committee. If only three
members are present, all three have to vote the same for a motion to pass.
   (H)   All recommendations from the Cemetery Committee are subject to review
and approval by the Town Council, at the Council’s sole discretion.
(Ord. 15-001, passed 1-27-2015)
§ 93.03 CEMETERY MANAGER, SEXTANT.
   (A)   The Director of Public Works for the town shall serve as the Cemetery
Manager. The duties associated with the position of the Cemetery Manager shall
be considered part of the required duties of the Director of Public Works.
   (B)   The care, maintenance and improvement of the cemetery shall be the
responsibility of the Cemetery Manager, subject to the general control and
management of the Town Council. He/she shall have charge and authority over the
same and all persons therein, including the responsibility for supervision of
employees engaged to carry out the aforementioned responsibilities.
   (C)   All interments and disinterments shall be conducted under the
supervision of the Cemetery Manager or his/her designate. The Cemetery Manager
or his/her designate shall be in attendance at each interment or disinterment;
and the Cemetery Manager or his/her designate shall further be responsible for
every opening and closing of a grave.
   (D)   The Cemetery Manager shall enforce this chapter and any related
policies or regulations adopted by the Town Council. He/she may take such
action as is necessary, even if not set forth herein, in order to protect the
cemetery from injury, the property of lot owners and to preserve the peace,
economy and good order of the cemetery.
(Ord. 15-001, passed 1-27-2015)
§ 93.04 RECORD KEEPING.
   (A)   The Town Clerk and his/her designate shall keep books, files, records
and accounts as are necessary for properly recording and exhibiting all matters
pertaining to the cemetery.
   (B)   Dual records shall be kept by a file card system and on a computer
program created for that purpose.
   (C)   Interment records shall show the name of the deceased, the date and
place of birth, the date and place of death, parent’s full names and the name
and address of the Funeral Director or person in charge. The burial permit
described in §
93.09 shall serve as the interment record.
   (D)   Disinterment and reinterment records shall show the name of the
deceased, the date and place of death, the cemetery to which removed or the
cemetery from which received and the name of the Funeral Director.
   (E)   Such records shall be subject to inspection by the State Registrar or
authorized representative upon request.
   (F)   It shall be the duty of the Town Clerk and the Cemetery Manager or
his/her designate to keep and maintain an accurate plat of the cemetery.
   (G)   All fees and charges shall be in accordance with the fee schedule as
outlined in Schedule ‘A’, attached to Ord. 15-001.
(Ord. 15-001, passed 1-27-2015)
§ 93.05 FINANCIAL LIABILITY.
   (A)   To insure the future financial viability of the Fredonia Cemetery, the
Town Council shall establish a cemetery perpetual care account within the
town's general fund.
   (B)   The Town Clerk shall deposit into the cemetery perpetual care account
a sum per square foot of each lot sold and a maximum percentage of the gross
sale as outlined by A.R.S. § 32-2194.28, each of which are included in Schedule
‘A’, which is attached to Ord. 15-001 and incorporated herein by reference.
   (C)   The principal and any income of the cemetery perpetual care account
shall be used solely for the care of plots sold with a provision for perpetual
care and the care of such other portions of the cemetery immediately
surrounding such plots as may be necessary to preserve the beauty and dignity
of the plots sold. The cemetery perpetual care account shall never be used for
the development, improvement or embellishment of unsold portions of the
cemetery.
   (D)   A cemetery maintenance account within the town’s general fund shall
also be established to provide for the maintenance and care of the cemetery.
Such maintenance fund shall consist of all amounts received by the town in the
form of fees, bequests, donations, grants or gifts of all kinds or property, in
fee simple or otherwise, for the purpose of cemetery maintenance. In addition
to the amounts received as described in the prior sentence, each year the Town
Council shall determine any additional amounts, in its sole discretion, to be
budgeted to the cemetery maintenance account.
   (E)   All amounts paid into or which becomes a part of the cemetery
maintenance account may be invested or reinvested by the Town Council in
accordance with A.R.S. § 38-348. In addition, any amounts in the cemetery
maintenance account may be used for any shortfall of the cemetery perpetual
care account for the purposes described in division (C) above.
(Ord. 15-001, passed 1-27-2015)
§ 93.06 DIVISION OF CEMETERY PROPERTY.
   (A)   The cemetery shall be divided into sections. Sections are to be set
apart by roadways. Sections shall be lettered west to east beginning with ‘A’
at the west entrance, north of the main roadway, ending with ‘F’ against the
east fence. Section ‘G’ is that area south of the entrance road to the south
fence.
   (B)   Each cemetery section shall be divided into blocks. Blocks shall be
numbered from north to south at intervals of 30 feet. The width of each block
is determined by its west roadway and east roadway or fence.
   (C)   Each cemetery block shall be divided into lots. Lots in each block
shall be lettered west to east in rows beginning with ‘A’. Lots in each row
shall be numbered north to south, Al through A5, Bl through B5, etc.
   (D)   Sections ‘C’, ‘D’, ‘E’ and ‘F’ are developed and in use. Sections ‘A’,
‘B’ and ‘G’ are currently undeveloped. No burial lots will be sold in these
areas until they are fully developed and space in developed sections become
limited.
   (E)   Dimension of lots in ‘C’, ‘D’, ‘E’ and ‘F’ shall be ten feet in length
and six feet in width. Dimension of lots in sections ‘A’ and ‘B’ and ‘G’ shall
be ten feet in length and five feet in width.
(Ord. 15-001, passed 1-27-2015)
§ 93.07 SALE OF DEEDS OF CONVEYANCE.
   (A)   The Town Clerk and his/her designate are hereby authorized to sell the
use of cemetery lots and collect and deposit all sums in accordance with §
93.05 and outlined in Schedule ‘A’, attached to Ord. 15-001.
   (B)   Lots shall be conveyed in the form of a Deed of Conveyance for burial
purposes only. Each lot sold shall have an individual Deed of Conveyance
issued. Such certificates shall be registered by the Town Clerk or his/her
designate in a book or file kept for that purpose.
   (C)   Purchasers of Deeds of Conveyance are limited to a total of eight
lots.
   (D)   Purchasers of Deeds of Conveyance shall keep the town informed in
writing of their current residence address.
   (E)   Deeds of Conveyance purchased on a time plan will have a lien by the
town and the town shall retain the Deed of Conveyance thereto until all fees
are paid in full. If the fees are not paid within three years from the initial
date of purchase without extension for any partial payments made after such
date, the Deed of Conveyance shall be foreclosed on.
   (F)   An unused cemetery lot shall be deemed abandoned when an owner of the
unused lot has failed to keep the town properly informed with their current
address for a period of 50 consecutive years and as a result, the town is
unable to communicate by certified mail with the owner of the unused lot. The
prior sentence is subject to all exceptions permitted by A.R.S. Title 32.
   (G)   On the occurrence of a presumption of abandonment, the town may file
with the real estate department a certified notice attesting to the abandonment
of the cemetery lot in accordance with A.R.S. § 32-2194.33.
   (H)   Upon the resale, assignment or transfer of a Deed of Conveyance from
one party to another, the certificate must be surrendered to the Town Clerk for
cancellation and a new certificate issued reflecting the changes made and
recorded in a book or file kept for that purpose.
   (I)   The town shall have no liability for the failure to properly determine
the legal succession of rights in any cemetery lot.
   (J)   No lot shall be sold without provision for perpetual care. The cost of
each lot and perpetual care for that lot are combined into a single fee as
outlined in Schedule ‘A’, attached to Ord. 15-001.
   (K)   Undersized lots along roadway and fence in Section ‘F’ shall be
reserved and sold for use with cremation remains. The cost of each undersized
lot and perpetual care for that lot are combined into a single fee as outlined
in Schedule ‘A’, attached to Ord. 15-001.
(Ord. 15-001, passed 1-27-2015)
§ 93.08 BURIAL RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to bury the body of a deceased person within the
town limits other than in the Town Cemetery.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to bury the body of a deceased person in the
cemetery without first obtaining a valid Deed of Conveyance for the lot used or
producing satisfactory evidence of a right to burial based on a properly
acquired Deed of Conveyance.
   (C)   No animal may be buried in any lot or anywhere else within the
boundaries of the cemetery.
   (D)   The burial of any other material or item not ordinarily associated
with the burial of a deceased person shall require the approval of the Cemetery
Committee and the Town Council.
   (E)   One interment only shall be allowed in a regular grave lot except:
      (1)   For a parent with his/her infant child;
      (2)   Two or more related children who are to be buried at the same time
in the same casket; or
      (3)   The interments of two children in separate caskets and contained
within separate vaults or liners in one regular grave lot if space permits.
   (F)   Two cremation remains may be buried within the same lot occupied by a
vault.
   (G)   Four evenly spaced cremation remains may be buried in one cremains
lot.
   (H)   Four evenly spaced cremation remains may be buried in one burial lot.
(Ord. 15-001, passed 1-27-2015; Ord. 2017-004, passed 5-23-2017)
§ 93.09 BURIAL PERMIT, INTERMENTS.
   (A)   No grave shall be opened in the cemetery until a burial permit is
properly filled out and issued by the Town Clerk or his/her designate. A burial
permit is the receipt for labor and expense of opening and closing the grave.
The burial permit shall serve as the interment record as outlined in §
93.04. A valid Deed of Conveyance must first be obtained for the use of the lot
before a burial permit can be issued.
   (B)   The presentation of a burial permit to the Cemetery Manager or his/her
designate shall be authority to open a grave for the burial of a deceased
person. However, wherein a Funeral Director agrees to be responsible and liable
for such fees in writing, the Town Clerk or his/her designate may authorize the
Cemetery Manager to open the grave before a burial permit is secured.
   (C)   The fee for a burial permit must be paid in accordance with the fee
schedule as outlined in Schedule ‘A’, attached to Ord. 15-001.
   (D)   No remains shall be received for interment unless accompanied by a
properly completed State of Arizona, Department of Health Services, disposal-
transit permit.
   (E)   Upon final disposition, the Cemetery Manager or Funeral Director shall
sign the disposal-transit permit and mail it to the State Registrar within ten
business days.
   (F)   Graveside services or interments will be allowed only between the
hours of 10:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. from Monday through Saturday. No graveside
service or interment will be allowed in the cemetery on a Sunday or on any of
the holidays officially observed by the town unless approved by the Cemetery
Manager or his/her designate in their sole discretion.
   (G)   All graveside services or interments must be arranged through the Town
Clerk 48 hours in advance of the time set or, if there is an intervening
Sunday, 72 hours in advance.
   (H)   All graves shall be dug to a depth of at least five feet with the
exception of cremated remains which shall be buried to a depth to allow at
least two feet of fill above the container.
   (I)   All caskets shall be housed within a vault constructed of cement or
metal, or a sturdy plastic liner. Vaults and liners must be pre-approved by the
Cemetery Manager. Vaults constructed with wood are not acceptable.
(Ord. 15-001, passed 1-27-2015)
§ 93.10 DISINTERMENTS, REINTERMENTS.
   (A)   A notice of each disinterment shall be given to the Cemetery Manager
no less than four business days previous thereto.
   (B)   The fee for disinterment must be paid in accordance with the fee
schedule as outlined in Schedule ‘A’, attached to Ord. 15-001.
   (C)   Disinterments and removal of remains shall be carried out under the
guidance or supervision of a Funeral Director licensed in the State of Arizona
who shall be responsible for the observance and enforcement of all rules
pertaining to health and safety.
   (D)   Interred remains shall not be removed from its place of interment for
transportation beyond the boundaries of the cemetery without a properly
completed State of Arizona, Department of Health Services, disinterment permit.
   (E)   A disinterment permit is not required where the disinterred remains
are to be reinterred within the cemetery for ordinary relocation or for reason
of internal management of the cemetery.
   (F)   Remains received from another cemetery for reinterment in the Fredonia
Cemetery must be accompanied by a properly completed State of Arizona,
Department of Health Services, disinterment permit.
   (G)   Prior to a body being disinterred or reinterred, information for
records in §
93.09 must be satisfied.
(Ord. 15-001, passed 1-27-2015)
§ 93.11 GRAVE MARKERS, MONUMENTS.
   (A)   Monuments are placed in the cemetery at the owner’s risk and the town
assumes no responsibility for damage or loss due to vandalism, elements,
settling, and so forth.
   (B)   All monuments shall be constructed of stone, metal or other durable
weather resistant material approved by the Cemetery Manager.
   (C)   All monuments must be placed on a foundation constructed either of
stone or cement, extending four to six inches outward from the monument with
the thickness and strength sufficient to withstand the weight of the monument
without cracking.
   (D)   Grave markers or monuments are to be placed on the west end of the
grave or lot with the name of the deceased plainly inscribed thereon and set in
a manner allowing it to be read by standing west of the grave or lot and facing
east.
   (E)   Monument height shall not exceed 42 inches above the ground surface.
Single markers and foundations shall not exceed 48 inches in width and 30
inches in length. Double markers and foundations shall not exceed 94 inches in
width and 30 inches in length. Dimensions of double markers and foundations set
on one regular grave lot shall be the same as for single markers. Width is
measured side to side and length is measured head to toe of the grave lot.
   (F)   Monument or monument foundations exceeding maximum dimensions shall
not be erected in the cemetery unless a plan is submitted to the Cemetery
Committee for review with final approval by the Town Council.
   (G)   Military issue headstones may be placed at the foot of a soldier’s
grave if so desired but shall lay flat and flush with the foundation or mow
strip so as not to interfere with the care and maintenance of the cemetery.
(Ord. 15-001, passed 1-27-2015)
§ 93.12 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The Cemetery Manager and his/her designate shall have power at all
times to enter in and upon every part of the cemetery and perform and execute
such work as may be necessary, desirable or expedient to provide for the care,
maintenance and improvement of the cemetery or any such related purpose.
   (B)   Maintenance shall be provided within the limits of the funds available
for such care.
   (C)   The town reserves the right to plant and maintain grass on all lots in
accordance with the perpetual care provision sold with previous lots and all
future sales of Deeds of Conveyance.
   (D)   The right to lay, maintain and operate lines for water supply,
sprinkling systems and drainage is expressly reserved to the town across any
portion of a cemetery lot.
   (E)   The Cemetery Manager or his/her designate shall take every precaution
necessary while performing maintenance duties or opening and closing graves as
to not damage grave sites, sod, monuments or other cemetery property.
   (F)   Employees neglecting maintenance duties or willfully causing damage to
cemetery grounds or property in contravention of the regulations herein are
subject to disciplinary action and or termination.
(Ord. 15-001, passed 1-27-2015)
§ 93.13 REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO THE GENERAL PUBLIC.
   (A)   Cemetery regulations applicable to the general public will be posted
at the cemetery in a manner noticeable to the public
   (B)   It is the responsibility of the public entering into the cemetery to
read, understand and abide by these regulations.
   (C)   The cemetery is closed to the public from 10:00 p.m. until 5:00 a.m.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle within the cemetery at a
speed greater than ten miles per hour. Parking or driving off of roadways is
strictly prohibited, as damage to sprinkler systems and sod may occur.
   (E)   With the exception of military and law enforcement rites or memorials,
no firearm shall be discharged from within or into the boundaries of the
cemetery.
   (F)   Household pets must either be retained within the confines of a
vehicle or restrained upon a leash at all times while in the cemetery. With the
exception of horse drawn caissons, service animals and household pets, no other
animal or livestock are permitted within the cemetery.
   (G)   No fence, coping, railing, hedge, tree, plant, shrub, bush or other
item shall be erected, placed or planted to mark the confines or borders of any
lot, grave or part thereof except for a monument placed in accordance with the
provisions set forth herein, §
93.11.
   (H)   No person, other than the Cemetery Manager or his/her designate may
disturb the sod, plant any trees, shrubs or plants without prior approval of
the Cemetery Committee.
   (I)   Glass and ceramic items are only allowed on a gravesite for one week
following a service or holiday. After one week, the Cemetery Manager or his/her
designate are authorized to remove and discard such items to prevent resulting
hazards.
   (J)   Floral pieces and other decorations are subject to removal by the
Cemetery Manager or his/her designate at such time as they no longer compliment
the gravesite.
   (K)   Any and all objects that block or interfere with mowing shall be
removed and not replaced. Every effort should be made to keep artificial
flowers, memorial objects and shepherd hooks on the headstone or foundation.
   (L)   The town shall not be responsible for the loss or damage of any
personal articles left upon any grave or lot.
   (M)   No person shall damage, deface or otherwise maliciously interfere with
any monument, marker, cornerstone, roadway, building or any other property or
landscaping feature which has been installed upon the grounds of the cemetery.
   (N)   Persons responsible for damage sustained to the cemetery grounds or
structures therein caused in contravention of the regulations of this cemetery
code are punishable in accordance with A.R.S. § 13-1604.
(Ord. 15-001, passed 1-27-2015)
CHAPTER 94: ANIMALS
Section
Rules and Regulations
   
94.001   Dangerous animals
   
94.002   Killing dangerous animals
   
94.003   Noises
   
94.004   Strays; housing
   
94.005   Animals on streets
   
94.006   Animals in town parks
   
94.007   Trespass of fowls
   
94.008   Horses
Impounding Generally
   
94.020   Duty of Police Department
   
94.021   Impounding of animals at large
   
94.022   Notice to owners of impoundment
   
94.023   Report of impounded animals
   
94.024   Conditions and duration of impoundment
   
94.025   Redemption of impounded animals
   
94.026   Sale of unredeemed animals
   
94.027   Impounding fees
   
94.028   Impeding Poundmaster
   
94.029   Biting animals
Dogs
   
94.040   Definitions
   
94.041   Licenses and tags generally
   
94.042   Vaccination required
   
94.043   Running at large
   
94.044   Biting dogs
   
94.045   Cruelty to domestic animals
Kennels, Pet Shops, Veterinary Clinics and Animal Hospitals
   
94.060   Definitions
   
94.061   Permit required
   
94.062   Light and ventilation
   
94.063   Sink and drainage
   
94.064   Animal housing
   
94.065   Maintenance
   
94.066   Limitations
   
94.067   Method of disposal
   
94.068   Records
   
94.069   Veterinarian
Multi-Dog Permits
   
94.080   Permit required
 
   
94.999   Penalty
Editor’s note:
   This chapter was revised 4- -1983 and 3-25-2008. Other amendments and/or
revisions are listed directly following the affected sections.
RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 94.001 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful to permit any dangerous, vicious animal of any kind to run at
large within the town and the animals shall be immediately impounded by the
Police Department. Exhibitions or parades of animals which are ferae naturae in
the eyes of the law may be conducted only upon securing a permit from the Chief
of Police.
(1974 Code, § 6-1-1) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.002 KILLING DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   The members of the Police Department are authorized to kill any dangerous
animals of any kind when it is necessary for the protection of any person or
property.
(1974 Code, § 6-1-2)
§ 94.003 NOISES.
   It is unlawful to harbor or keep any animals which disturb the peace by loud
noises at any time of the day or night.
(1974 Code, § 6-1-3) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.004 STRAYS; HOUSING.
   (A)   Any person who keeps or causes to be kept any horses, mules, cattle,
burros, goats, sheep, swine or other livestock or poultry within the corporate
limits of the town shall keep the livestock or poultry in a pen or similar
enclosure to prevent their roaming at large. Any livestock or poultry running
at large may be impounded by the Police Department.
   (B)   It is unlawful to cause or allow any stable or place where any animal
is or may be kept to become unclean or unwholesome.
(1974 Code, § 6-1-4) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.005 ANIMALS ON STREETS.
   It is unlawful for any person being the owner of, or having charge, custody
or control of, any animal to allow the same to remain standing, fastened or
otherwise on any of the streets of the town for a period of time longer than
five hours in any one day.
(1974 Code, § 6-1-5) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.006 ANIMALS IN TOWN PARKS.
   It is unlawful for any person being the owner of, or having charge, custody
or control of, any animal to allow the animal, including domestic pets, to
stray or otherwise enter a town park at any time, or to bring the animal into a
town park on leash or otherwise.
(1974 Code, § 6-1-6) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.007 TRESPASS OF FOWLS.
   It is unlawful for the owner or any person in charge of domestic fowls such
as turkeys, ducks, geese or chickens to permit the fowls to trespass upon the
premises of another, or to house, keep, run or feed any fowls within 20 feet of
any house used for human habitation.
(1974 Code, § 6-1-7) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.008 HORSES.
   Horses shall be permitted on property zoned “residential”; provided that,
the property is one-half acre minimum. There is no maximum number of horses
permitted, unless county regulations of density or number apply. Horses shall
be for personal use only; horses used for commercial purposes may only be kept
on land zoned for agricultural use. Horses must be kept a minimum of 50 feet
from habitable dwellings on adjacent lots. If the horse can interfere with or
impact the neighbor’s fence or property, the horse shall be kept a minimum of
ten feet from the property line, unless the neighbor waives his or her right to
enforce this particular requirement, in writing. In order to minimize the
negative impact of odor and pests on neighbors, horse paddocks and corrals must
be maintained a minimum of twice a week.
(1974 Code, § 6-1-8) Penalty, see §
94.999
IMPOUNDING GENERALLY
§ 94.020 DUTY OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The Police Chief and members of the Police Department shall be charged with
the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, except as may be otherwise
provided by the Council.
(1974 Code, § 6-2-1)
§ 94.021 IMPOUNDING OF ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to impound all animals found
at large, or not in charge of or under the care or control of some person in
the streets, alleys or other public places or vacant or unenclosed lots in the
town, except dogs upon which the license fee has been paid and wearing metal
tags as provided in this chapter.
(1974 Code, § 6-2-2)
§ 94.022 NOTICE TO OWNERS OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   If the owner of any impounded animal, except dogs, shall be known to the
Police Department and shall reside or have a known place of business in the
town a member of the Police Department shall notify the owner of the animal
personally or by letter through the post office within 24 hours after the
animal has been taken up and impounded. The notice shall contain a description
of the animal and shall state that unless reclaimed, the animal shall be sold
at public auction to the highest bidder at the time and place specified in the
notice. Copies of the notice shall be posted at the place of impoundment and at
the town hall.
(1974 Code, § 6-2-3)
§ 94.023 REPORT OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   The Police Department shall, within 24 hours after taking up and impounding
any animal, except a dog, make a report to the Poundkeeper, stating the kind of
animal and describing it by color or otherwise or by any marks or brands that
may be on it, and when it was taken up and impounded.
(1974 Code, § 6-2-4)
§ 94.024 CONDITIONS AND DURATION OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   The Police Department shall provide for the keeping of all animals taken up
and impounded by the Police Department in a safe, convenient and comfortable
place within or conveniently near the town limits and shall feed the animals at
least once every 24 hours and treat them in a humane manner during the time
they are impounded, which shall not be less than five days, unless sooner
claimed by the owner, except dogs which shall be kept as provided in this
chapter.
(1974 Code, § 6-2-5)
§ 94.025 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   If the owner of any animal other than a dog shall, within five days after
the animal has been taken up and impounded, apply to the Police Department and
pay the fees and charges provided by this chapter, the Police Department shall
deliver any animal to the owner.
(1974 Code, § 6-2-6)
§ 94.026 SALE OF UNREDEEMED ANIMALS.
   (A)   All animals, other than dogs, taken up and impounded under the
provisions of this subchapter which have not been claimed and for which the
fees have not been paid to the town by the owner within five days shall, at the
time provided in the notice of sale, be sold by the Police Department at public
auction at the place of impoundment to the highest cash bidder. The lowest
acceptable bid for any animal shall be equal to the town’s expenses for picking
up and boarding the animal. The proceeds from the sale of any animal shall be
paid to the Poundmaster who shall deduct therefrom all fees and expenses. The
Police Department shall execute a bill of sale in favor of the purchase of the
animal and upon payment of the amount of bid shall deliver the bill of sale to
the purchaser.
   (B)   The proceeds shall be paid to the owner of the animal if he or she
appears and claims it within 30 days after the sale. If no claim is presented
within 30 days, the proceeds shall be paid to the General Fund of the town.
   (C)   Any animal not claimed or sold at public auction under the provisions
of this subchapter shall be destroyed in a humane manner.
(1974 Code, § 6-2-7)
§ 94.027 IMPOUNDING FEES.
   The town shall collect a fee from the owner of animals taken up and
impounded and duly claimed by the owner, before delivering any animals. An
additional fee shall be charged for the taking care of, watering and feeding
any impounded animal. All fees collected shall be paid into the General Fund of
the town.
(1974 Code, § 6-2-8)
§ 94.028 IMPEDING POUNDMASTER.
   It is unlawful for any person to in any manner intervene, impede, prevent,
obstruct or intimidate any member of the Police Department in the discharge of
his or her duties in taking up or attempting to take up and impound any and all
animals which it shall be his or her duty to impound under the provisions of
this subchapter, or who shall rescue or attempt to rescue any animal so taken
up or to release any animal so impounded.
(1974 Code, § 6-2-9) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.029 BITING ANIMALS.
   Whenever any animal, except a dog, bites a person, the person so bitten and
the owner of the animal shall immediately notify the Police Department, which
shall cause an examination of the animal to be made by a duly licensed
physician or a duly licensed veterinarian, and shall order the animal held on
the owner’s premises or shall have it impounded as long as necessary for a
complete examination. If it is determined that the animal is infected with
rabies or other dangerous, contagious and infectious disease, it shall be the
duty of the Police Department to destroy the animal in as humane a manner as is
reasonably possible. If, at the end of the quarantine or impoundment, a
veterinarian is convinced that the animal is free from the diseases, the animal
shall be released. If the animal dies during the period of quarantine or
impoundment, its head shall be sent to the State Department of Health for
examination.
(1974 Code, § 6-2-10)
DOGS
§ 94.040 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner not under the control of the owner,
or other persons acting for the owner.
   COLLAR. A band, chain, harness or suitable device worn around the neck of
the dog to which a license may be affixed.
   DOG. A member of the canis familiaris family.
   HUMANE OFFICER. All police officers of the town who shall perform the duties
pertaining to the officers. It is their duty to enforce all the laws and
ordinances of the town pertaining to cruelty to animals and to enforce all the
provisions of this subchapter.
   OWNER. Any person owning, keeping, possessing, harboring or maintaining a
dog.
   POUND. Any establishment authorized by the town for the confinement,
maintenance, safekeeping and control of dogs that come into the custody of the
Police Department.
   POUNDKEEPER. The Town Marshal. He or she shall be ex-officio Poundkeeper
without extra compensation. He or she shall perform all duties as are now or
may hereafter be required of a Poundkeeper by the laws of the state or by
ordinances of the town.
   VACCINATION. An anti-rabies vaccination using a type of vaccine approved by
the state veterinarian.
(1974 Code, § 6-3-1)
§ 94.041 LICENSES AND TAGS GENERALLY.
   (A)   All dogs kept, harbored or maintained in the town must be licensed and
registered if over four months of age. Dog licenses shall be issued by the
Police Department, or by an authorized representative of the Police Department,
upon payment of a license fee for each female dog and for each male or spayed
female. Before any license may be issued for a spayed female dog, a certificate
in writing signed by a person duly licensed to practice veterinary medicine or
surgery in the state describing the female dog and certifying that it has been
spayed, together with the date thereof, shall be filed with the Town Clerk. The
owner shall state at the time application is made for the license his or her
name and address, the name, breed, color and sex of each dog owned or kept by
him or her.
   (B)   A guide dog belonging to a blind person who is a resident of the state
or any bona fide non-profit organization which is in the business of breeding,
raising or training dogs that are to be used for guiding the blind shall, upon
application by the owner or organization to the town and on presentation of
proper proof, be vaccinated and licensed pursuant to this subchapter without
payment of a fee.
   (C)   Each dog licensed under the terms of this subchapter shall receive, at
the time of licensing, a tag on which shall be inscribed the name of the town,
the number of the license and the year in which it expires. The tag shall be
attached to a collar or harness which shall be worn by the dog at all times,
except as otherwise provided in this subchapter. Whenever a dog tag is lost, a
duplicate tag shall be issued upon application by the owner and payment of a
fee to the Police Department.
   (D)   Any person who counterfeits or attempts to counterfeit an official dog
tag or removes the tag from any dog for the purpose of willful and malicious
mischief, or places a dog tag upon a dog unless the tag was issued to that dog,
is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (E)   Whenever the ownership of a dog has been changed, the new owner must
secure a transfer of license to the owner. A transfer fee shall be charged to
transfer any license.
   (F)   Dogs while being used for hunting or dogs while being exhibited at
American Kennel Club approved shows or dogs while engaged in races approved by
the State Racing Commission and the dogs, while being transported to and from
the events, need not wear a collar or harness with a valid license attached;
provided that, they are properly vaccinated and licensed.
   (G)   The Police Department shall apprehend and impound any dog found
without a current valid license tag.
   (H)   Each unlicensed dog impounded shall be kept and maintained at the
pound for a minimum of five days. At the expiration of the impoundment period,
anyone may claim the dog; provided that, the person pays all established pound
fees and complies with the licensing provisions of this subchapter. If no
person claims the dog, the Police Department may dispose of the dog in a humane
manner.
(1974 Code, § 6-3-2) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.042 VACCINATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Before a license is issued for any dog, the owner must present a
vaccination certificate signed by a veterinarian stating the owner’s name and
address and giving the dog’s description, date of vaccination and type,
manufacturer and serial number of the vaccine and date revaccination is due. A
duplicate of each rabies vaccination certificate issued shall be transmitted to
the Police Department. No dog shall be licensed unless it is vaccinated in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter and the regulations
promulgated hereunder.
   (B)   A dog vaccinated in any other place prior to entry into the town may
be licensed in the town; provided that, at the time of licensing, the owner of
the dog presents a vaccination certificate, signed by a veterinarian licensed
to practice in that place or a veterinarian employed by a governmental agency
in that place, stating the owner’s name and address and giving the dog’s
description, date of vaccination and type, manufacturer and serial number of
the vaccine used. The vaccination must be in conformity with the provisions of
this subchapter and the regulations promulgated hereunder.
   (C)   The Police Department shall make provisions for low-cost vaccination
clinics as deemed necessary. The vaccination shall be performed by a
veterinarian.
   (D)   If a dog is impounded and found to be unvaccinated, the Police
Department is hereby authorized to cause the dog to be vaccinated at the pound
at a cost to be borne by the owner. The vaccination shall be performed by a
veterinarian, who shall issue a certificate of vaccination.
   (E)   A person shall not keep, harbor or maintain a dog over the age of four
months in the town unless the dog has been properly vaccinated and the person
produces a valid certificate of vaccination if requested by an Animal Control
Officer or the Marshal’s Office.
(1974 Code, § 6-3-3) (Ord. 04-004, passed 11-23-2004) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.043 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   Every person owning or having charge, care, custody, or control of any
dog of any age shall keep such dog exclusively upon his or her own premises;
provided, however, that the dog may be off such premises if it is under control
of a competent person and restrained by a chain, leash, rope or cord of
sufficient strength to contain and control such a dog.
   (B)   The Police Department shall apprehend and impound any dog at large
contrary to the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 15-005, passed 12-22-2015) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.044 BITING DOGS.
   (A)   Whenever a dog bites any person the incident shall be reported to the
Town Police Department immediately by any person having direct knowledge. It
shall be unlawful for any animal to bite or attack any person or domestic
animal. It is no defense that the animal is chained or confined if the chaining
or confining is on public or private property where the public has access to be
on such property. The owner or custodian of any animal is in violation of this
section regardless of the precautions taken to prevent the bite or attack and
regardless of the lack of knowledge of the offence at the time it occurs.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to keep, own, harbor, or have the
control of any fierce or dangerous animal in the town limits. It is prima facia
evidence that an animal is a fierce or dangerous animal if it bites or attacks
a person or domestic animal.
   (C)   Any dog that bites any person shall be quarantined and impounded or,
at the request of and at the expense of the owner, placed in a veterinary
hospital for a period of not less than seven days. The owner of any dog that
has bitten a person may voluntarily deliver the dog to the Police Department at
the pound; otherwise, there shall be an assessment against the owner if the
Police Department must pick up the dog. If the dog is impounded in the pound
for observation as a result of a dog bite incident, there shall be a per day
charge for board, and no other impoundment fees shall be charged under these
circumstances. Any dog that is impounded shall, at the expense of the owner, be
chipped before release.
   (D)   If it is determined that the dog is infected with rabies or other
dangerous, contagious and infectious disease, it shall be the duty of the
Police Department to destroy such dog in as humane a manner as is reasonably
possible. If at the end of the quarantine or impoundment, a veterinarian is
convinced that the dog is free from such diseases, the dog shall be released.
If the dog dies during the period of quarantine or impoundment, its head shall
be sent to the State Department of Health for examination.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MENACING DOG. Upon any complaint of a menacing dog the owner shall
receive a warning to keep the dog contained. Upon a second complaint a citation
shall be issued to the owner and the dog shall at the expense of the owner, be
chipped. Upon a third complaint of a menacing dog it will be considered a
fierce or dangerous animal and shall be removed from the town limits.
(1974 Code, § 6-3-5) (Ord. 14-001, passed 7-8-2014) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.045 CRUELTY TO DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   (A)   Animals under human custody or control shall be housed in healthy
environments and shall be provided with proper food, water, shelter, medical
care, exercise space and ventilation. Any person owning or having care, control
or custody of any animal shall ensure that the animal receives daily, food that
is free from contamination and is of sufficient quantity and nutritive value to
maintain the animal in good health; that potable water is accessible to the
animal at all times, either free-flowing or in a clean receptacle; that all
animals have convenient access to shelter throughout the year. Any such shelter
shall be structurally sound and maintained in good repair to protect the animal
from injury and from the elements, and of sufficient size to permit the animal
to enter, stand, turn around and lie down in a natural manner. Any shelter
which does not protect the animal from temperature extremes or precipitation,
or which does not provide adequate ventilation or drainage, shall not comply
with this section. Any shelter, all bedding and any spaces accessible to the
animal shall be maintained in a manner which minimizes the risk of the animal
contracting disease, being injured or becoming infested with parasites.
   (B)   Animals shall receive care and medical treatment for debilitating
injuries, parasites and diseases, sufficient to maintain the animal in good
health and minimize suffering.
   (C)   Animals shall be given adequate exercise space, either within an
enclosure that shall be constructed of material and in a manner to minimize the
risk of injury to the animal, and shall encompass sufficient usable space to
keep the animal in good condition; or on a tieout, consisting of a chain,
leash, wire cable or similar restraint attached to a swivel or pulley. A tieout
shall be not less than ten feet in length, and of sufficient strength to
control the actions of the animal, and shall keep the animal confined within
the boundaries of the owner’s property. Tieouts shall be so located that they
cannot become entangled with other objects. Collars used to attach an animal to
a tieout shall not be of a choke type.
   (D)   Animals shall have access to adequate ventilation and be protected
from temperature extremes at all times. It is unlawful for any person to keep
any animal in a vehicle or other enclosed space in which the temperature is
either so high or low, or the ventilation is so inadequate, as to endanger the
animal’s life or health. Any peace officer or Town Animal Control Officer is
authorized to use whatever force is reasonable and necessary to remove any
animal from a vehicle or other enclosed space whenever it appears that the
animal’s life or health is endangered by extreme temperatures or lack of
ventilation within the vehicle or other enclosed space. No peace officer or
Town Animal Control Officer shall be liable for damages to property caused by
the use of reasonable force to remove an animal from a vehicle or other
enclosed space under those circumstances.
   (E)   Any of the provisions of this section may be waived as dictated by
treatment under the direction of a licensed veterinarian.
(1974 Code, § 6-3-6) (Ord. 01-001, passed 3-27-2001) Penalty, see §
94.999
KENNELS, PET SHOPS, VETERINARY CLINICS AND ANIMAL HOSPITALS
§ 94.060 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   KENNEL. Any establishment at which dogs and cats are bred or raised for
sale, boarded or cared for, commercially or on a non-profit basis, exclusive of
dental, medical or surgical care or for quarantine purposes.
   PET SHOP. Any establishment where animals or birds generally considered
household pets are kept for sale commercially or on a non-profit basis.
   VETERINARY CLINIC. Any establishment operated by a licensed veterinarian to
provide dental, medical or surgical treatment and care, including grooming, for
animals or birds on an out-patient basis.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL. Any establishment operated by a licensed veterinarian
providing clinical facilities and housing for animals or birds for dental,
medical or surgical treatment. A VETERINARY HOSPITAL may have adjacent to it,
either in conjunction with it or as an integral part of it, pens, stalls, cages
or kennels for quarantine, observation or boarding.
(1974 Code, § 6-4-1) (Res. 03-001, passed 1-14-2003; Ord. 03-001, passed 4-8-
2003)
§ 94.061 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall operate a kennel or a pet shop without a permit to do
so issued by the Health Authority or otherwise than in accordance with
pertinent regulations in this code.
   (B)   No permit to operate a kennel or a pet shop shall be issued by the
Department until plans and specifications therefor have been approved.
Construction shall conform to approved plans. The applicant shall specify in
his or her application the kind or kinds of animals and birds that will be sold
and the probable numbers of each type of bird or animal that will be
accommodated.
(1974 Code, § 6-4-1) (Res. 03-001, passed 1-14-2003; Ord. 03-001, passed 4-8-
2003) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.062 LIGHT AND VENTILATION.
   All premises where animals and birds are kept shall be ventilated by force-
draft devices, screened doors and windows and shall be adequately lighted.
(1974 Code, § 6-4-2) (Res. 03-001, passed 1-14-2003; Ord. 03-001, passed 4-8-
2003) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.063 SINK AND DRAINAGE.
   All animal-care facilities shall have properly plumbed, sewer-connected
sinks readily accessible to those portions of the premises where animals or
birds are kept. Adequate supplies of hot and cold running water shall be
provided.
(1974 Code, § 6-4-3) (Res. 03-001, passed 1-14-2003; Ord. 03-001, passed 4-8-
2003) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.064 ANIMAL HOUSING.
   (A)   (1)   Kennel and pet shop cages in which birds and animals are kept
shall be constructed of durable materials which may be readily cleaned and
disinfected with approved solutions, with live steam or by other approved
means.
      (2)   Cages shall be designed and constructed so that all parts are
easily cleanable.
      (3)   Each dog and cat over three months of age shall be kept in an
individual cage and, at no time, shall there be any co-mingling of animals of
more than one owner. Dog pounds are exempt from the co-mingling requirement.
   (B)   Veterinary clinic and hospital cages shall be designed and constructed
in conformity with division (A) above and, in addition, each occupied cage
shall be cleaned and disinfected at least once daily. Animals receiving medical
care and quarantined animals shall not be co-mingled.
(1974 Code, § 6-4-4) (Res. 03-001, passed 1-14-2003; Ord. 03-001, passed 4-8-
2003) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.065 MAINTENANCE.
   All animal-care premises, implements, cages and appurtenances shall be kept
clean, sanitary and free of animal and bird parasites or other health hazards.
(1974 Code, § 6-4-5) (Res. 03-001, passed 1-14-2003; Ord. 03-001, passed 4-8-
2003) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.066 LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   No portion of a pet shop, kennel or veterinary hospital in which
animals or birds are kept, caged or boarded shall be used for human habitation.
   (B)   Food for human consumption shall not be prepared or served in the same
room in which animals or birds are kept, caged or boarded.
(1974 Code, § 6-4-6) (Res. 03-001, passed 1-14-2003; Ord. 03-001, passed 4-8-
2003) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.067 METHOD OF DISPOSAL.
   All putrescible material, garbage, excreta, refuse and dead birds or animals
shall be stored in durable, fly-tight containers and disposed of as soon as
practicable, but at least twice a week and in an approved manner.
(1974 Code, § 6-4-7) (Res. 03-001, passed 1-14-2003; Ord. 03-001, passed 4-8-
2003) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.068 RECORDS.
   (A)   Each kennel and pet shop shall keep a record book in which an entry
shall be made for every animal or bird received, purchased, sold, boarded or
kept on the premises, showing origin, to whom the animal or bird was sold or
for whom the animal or bird was boarded and kept, together with an accurate
description of the animal or bird, including age, sex and breed, where
applicable.
   (B)   Veterinary clinics and hospitals shall keep a record of each animal or
bird admitted, including an accurate description of the animal or bird,
diagnosis (dental, medical or surgical), vaccinations (including rabies), and
dates of admission and discharge. Every incidence of disease known or suspected
to be communicable to humans shall be reported to the Health Officer. Records
shall be made available for inspection by the Health Officer in accordance with
the law.
(1974 Code, § 6-4-8) (Res. 03-001, passed 1-14-2003; Ord. 03-001, passed 4-8-
2003) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.069 VETERINARIAN.
   These regulations shall not be used to interfere with a licensed
veterinarian in the practice of his or her profession, but the veterinarian
shall comply with these sanitation provisions.
(1974 Code, § 6-4-9) (Res. 03-001, passed 1-14-2003; Ord. 03-001, passed 4-8-
2003)
MULTI-DOG PERMITS
§ 94.080 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Subject to all other applicable requirements of this section,
including time limitations, the Animal Control Officer may in consultation with
the Town Manager issue a permit to an applicant to keep in excess of three dogs
on the property of an applicant who does not wish to operate a kennel, as
defined elsewhere herein. The applicant may receive a written approval from the
Animal Control Officer, subject to satisfactorily demonstrating to the Animal
Control Officer, of his or her ability to adequately house, care for and
maintain a stated number of dogs in an odor-free, sanitary, humane environment.
The applicant shall further attest in his or her application that he or she is
the owner of the dogs, that he or she does not keep the dogs of others for
profit, and that he or she is not keeping the dogs for breeding purposes.
   (B)   A multi-dog permit shall not be issued unless the applicant also:
      (1)   Presents a written consent for keeping of the specified number of
dogs signed by all adjacent neighbors to his or her property line;
      (2)   Provides proof of current rabies vaccinations;
      (3)   Provides proof that all dogs six months of age or older have been
spayed and neutered;
      (4)   Pays a permit fee. Dog tag fees paid by applicants within the year
they have applied for and been granted a multi-dog permit shall be put toward
the fee; and
      (5)   Maintains appropriate containment fencing around any yard where
dogs inhabit.
   (C)   By applying for a permit hereunder, an applicant consents to
inspection by the Animal Control Officer of any part of the premises where dogs
may be kept, whereupon access is to be made available for inspection at any
reasonable time at the discretion of the Animal Control Officer.
   (D)   The permit shall be renewed annually.
   (E)   The permit provided herein shall not be renewed and may be revoked by
the Animal Control Officer if keeping of the dogs in any way violated the
nuisance ordinance of the town, including, but not limited to, excessive
barking, offensive odors or running at large. The Animal Control Officer shall
provide a reasonable period of time, not to exceed 30 days, for the holder of
the permit to correct the violations or remove any number of dogs in excess of
three.
(1974 Code, § 6-5-1) (Res. 03-003, passed 4-8-2003; Ord. 03-002, passed 4-8-
2003; Ord. 2017-002, passed 4-11-2017)
§ 94.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of §
94.006 shall be a class 3 misdemeanor.
(1974 Code, § 6-1-6)
   (C)   (1)   Whoever overdrives, overloads, overworks, tortures, torments,
cruelly beats, mutilates or unlawfully kills an animal, or causes or procures
an animal to be so overdriven, overloaded, driven when overloaded, overworked,
tortured, tormented, cruelly beaten, mutilated or killed, and whoever, having
charge or custody of an animal, either as owner or otherwise, inflicts
unnecessary cruelty upon it, cruelly drives or works it when unfit for labor,
or cruelly abandons it, or carries it or causes it to be carried in or upon a
vehicle or otherwise, in an unnecessarily cruel or inhumane manner or knowingly
and willfully authorizes or permits it to be subjected to unreasonable or
unnecessary torture, suffering or cruelty of any kind, may be guilty of a class
2 misdemeanor.
      (2)   Enforcement of §
94.045 shall be by a Town Animal Control Officer. Any peace officer may enforce
§
94.045 if requested to assist a Town Animal Control Officer or if a Town Animal
Control Officer is unavailable. Any person violating the provisions of this
section may be guilty of a class 2 misdemeanor.
      (3)   Any person who is the owner of, or who has the charge, custody or
control of any animal or fowl, who willfully and knowingly permits or aids,
abets or encourages the animal or fowl to engage in a fight with any other
animal or fowl within the town on a wager, or for sport, or for any other
purpose, may be deemed guilty of a class 2 misdemeanor.
      (4)   If any person accidentally or otherwise injures an animal within
the town and leaves the scene without making a reasonable effort to report it
to the animal owner, animal shelter or appropriate animal control agency at
once, that person may be deemed guilty of a class 2 misdemeanor. Whenever any
animal is found which appears to be lost or strayed, it shall be the duty of
the finder to notify the animal owner, animal shelter or appropriate animal
control agency at once.
(1974 Code, § 6-3-6)
   (D)   A person violating any provision of §§
94.060 through
94.069 is guilty of a class 3 misdemeanor.
   (E)   Any person violating any provision of §
94.043 is guilty of a petty offense with a penalty as stated in §
130.99(B).
(1974 Code, § 6-4-10) (Ord. 01-001, passed 3-27-2001; Ord. 13-004, passed 10-8-
2013)
CHAPTER 95: SMOKE-FREE AIR REGULATIONS
Section
   
95.01   Title and citation of authority
   
95.02   Findings and intent
   
95.03   Definitions
   
95.04   Application of chapter to town owned facilities
   
95.05   Prohibition of smoking in public places
   
95.06   Prohibition of smoking in places of employment
   
95.07   Reasonable distance
   
95.08   Where smoking not regulated
   
95.09   Declaration of establishment as non-smoking
   
95.10   Posting of signs
   
95.11   Non-retaliation
   
95.12   Enforcement
   
95.13   Public education
   
95.14   Governmental agency cooperation
   
95.15   Other applicable laws
   
95.16   Liberal construction
   
95.17   Effective date
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 TITLE AND CITATION OF AUTHORITY.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Town of Fredonia Smoke Free Air
Ordinance”. The town has the statutory authority to adopt ordinances for
preservation of public health under A.R.S. § 36-184(B)(3) and the authority to
hold administrative hearings for violations of health regulations given in
A.R.S. § 36-183.04.
(Ord. 04-001, passed 6-22-2004)
§ 95.02 FINDINGS AND INTENT.
   (A)   The town does hereby find that:
      (1)   Numerous studies have found that tobacco smoke is a major
contributor to indoor air pollution, and that breathing secondhand smoke (also
known as environmental tobacco smoke) is a cause of disease in healthy non-
smokers, including heart disease, stroke, respiratory disease and lung cancer.
The National Cancer Institute determined in 1999 that secondhand smoke is
responsible for the early deaths of up to 65,000 Americans annually. (National
Cancer Institute (NCI), “Health Effects of Exposure to Environmental Tobacco
Smoke: the Report of the California Environmental Protection Agency. Smoking
and Tobacco Control Monograph 10,” Bethesda, MD: National Institutes of Health,
National Cancer Institute (NCI), August 1999);
      (2)   The Public Health Service’s National Toxicology Program has listed
secondhand smoke as a known carcinogen. (Environmental Health Information
Service (EHIS), “Environmental Tobacco Smoke: First Listed in the Ninth Report
of Carcinogens,” U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS), Public
Health Service, National Toxicology Program, 2000);
      (3)   Secondhand smoke is particularly hazardous to elderly people,
individuals with cardiovascular disease and individuals with impaired
respiratory function, including asthmatics and those with obstructive airway
disease. Children exposed to secondhand smoke have an increased risk of asthma,
respiratory infections, sudden infant death syndrome, developmental
abnormalities and cancer. (California Environmental Protection Agency (Cal
EPA), “Health Effects of Exposure to Environmental Tobacco Smoke”, Tobacco
Control 6(4): 346-353, Winter, 1997);
      (4)   The Americans With Disabilities Act, which requires that disabled
persons have access to public places and workplaces, deems impaired respiratory
function to be a disability. (Daynard, R.A., Environmental Tobacco Smoke and
the Americans with Disabilities Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., Non-
Smokers’ Voice 15(1): 8-9);
      (5)   The U.S. Surgeon General has determined that the simple separation
of smokers and non-smokers within the same air space may reduce, but does not
eliminate, the exposure of non-smokers to secondhand smoke. (Department of
Health and Human Services. The Health Consequences of Involuntary Smoking: A
Report of the Surgeon General. Public Health Service, Centers for Disease
Control, 1986.) The Environmental Protection Agency has determined that
secondhand smoke cannot be reduced to safe levels in businesses by high rates
of ventilation. Air cleaners, which are only capable of filtering the
particulate matter and odors in smoke, do not eliminate the known toxins in
secondhand smoke. (Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), “Indoor Air Facts No.
5: Environmental Tobacco Smoke,” Washington, D.C.: Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA), June 1989);
      (6)   A significant amount of secondhand smoke exposure occurs in the
workplace. Employees who work in smoke-filled businesses suffer a 25% to 50%
higher risk of heart attack and higher rates of death from cardiovascular
disease and cancer, as well as increased acute respiratory disease and
measurable decrease in lung function. (Pitsavos, C.; Panagiotakos, D.B.;
Chrysohoou, C.; Skoumas, J.; Tziournis, K.; Stefanadis, C; Toutouzas, P.,
“Association Between Exposure to Environmental Tobacco Smoke and the
Development of Acute Coronary Syndromes; the CARDIO2000 Case-control Study,”
Tobacco Control 11(3): 220-225, September 2002);
      (7)   Smoke-filled workplaces result in higher worker absenteeism due to
respiratory disease, lower productivity, higher cleaning and maintenance costs,
increased health insurance rates and increased liability claims for diseases
related to exposure to secondhand smoke. (“The High Price of Cigarette
Smoking,” Business & Health J5(8), Supplement A; 6-9, August 1997);
      (8)   Numerous economic analyses examining restaurant and hotel receipts
and controlling for economic variables have shown either no difference or a
positive economic impact after enactment of laws requiring workplaces to be
smoke-free. Creation of smoke-free workplaces is sound economic policy and
provides the maximum level of employee health and safety. (Glantz, S.A. &
Smith, L. the Effect of Ordinances Requiring Smokefree Restaurants on
Restaurant Sales in the United States. American Journal of Public Health, 87:
1687-1693, 1997; Column, R.; Urbonas, C.M., “The Economic Impact of Smoke-free
Workplaces: An Assessment for Nova Scotia, Prepared for Tobacco Control Unit,
Nova Scotia Department of Health,” GPJ Atlantic, September 2001); and
      (9)   Smoking is a potential cause of fires; cigarette and cigar butts
and ash stains on merchandise and fixtures causes economic damage to
businesses. (“The High Price of Cigarette Smoking,” Business & Health 15(8),
Supplement A: 6-9, August 1997.)
   (B)   Accordingly, the town finds and declares that the purposes of this
chapter are:
      (1)   To protect the public health and welfare by prohibiting smoking in
public places and places of employment; and
      (2)   To provide the opportunity for all individuals to breathe smoke-
free air.
(Ord. 04-001, passed 6-22-2004)
§ 95.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BAR. A place within a restaurant or other business building for
the service of alcoholic beverages and associated snacks for on-site
consumption that shares common space (opening, entryway or interior space) and/
or ventilation with the restaurant or other business.
   BUSINESS. A sole proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, corporation or
other business entity formed for profit-making purposes, including retail
establishments where goods or services are sold as well as professional
corporations and other entities where legal, medical, dental, engineering,
architectural or other professional services are delivered.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who is employed by an employer in consideration for
direct or indirect monetary wages or profit, and a person who volunteers his or
her services for a non-profit entity.
   EMPLOYER. A person, business, partnership, association, corporation,
including a municipal corporation, trust or non-profit entity that employs the
services of one or more individual persons.
   ENCLOSED AREA. All space between a floor and ceiling that is enclosed on all
sides by solid walls or windows (exclusive of doorways), which extend from the
floor to the ceiling.
   HEALTH CARE FACILITY. An office or institution providing care or treatment
of diseases, whether physical, mental or emotional, or other medical,
physiological or psychological conditions, including, but not limited to,
hospitals, rehabilitation hospitals or other clinics, including weight control
clinics, nursing homes, homes for the aging or chronically ill, laboratories,
and offices of surgeons, chiropractors, physical therapists, physicians,
dentists and all specialists within these professions. This definition shall
include all waiting rooms, hallways, private rooms, semi-private rooms and
wards within health care facilities.
   OPENING. An entrance, window or ventilation system.
   PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT. An area under the control of a public or private
employer that employees normally frequent during the course of employment,
including, but not limited to, work areas, employee lounges, restrooms,
conference rooms, meeting rooms, classrooms, employee cafeterias, hallways and
vehicles. A private residence is not a PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT unless it is used as
a child care, adult day care or health care facility.
   PUBLIC PLACE. An enclosed area to which the public is invited or in which
the public is permitted, including, but not limited to, banks, bars,
educational facilities, health care facilities, laundromats, public
transportation facilities, reception areas, restaurants, retail food production
and marketing establishments, retail service establishments, retail stores,
shopping malls, sports facilities, theaters and waiting rooms. A private
residence is not a PUBLIC PLACE unless it is used as a child care, adult day
care or health care facility.
   REASONABLE DISTANCE. A distance sufficient to ensure that persons entering
or leaving the building shall not be subjected to breathing tobacco smoke.
   RESTAURANT. An eating establishment, including, but not limited to, coffee
shops, cafeterias, sandwich stands and private and public school cafeterias,
which gives or offers for sale food to the public, guests or employees, as well
as kitchens and catering facilities in which food is prepared on the premises
for serving elsewhere. The term RESTAURANT shall include a bar area within the
restaurant.
   RETAIL TOBACCO STORE. A retail store utilized primarily for the sale of
tobacco products and accessories and in which the sale of other products is
merely incidental.
   SERVICE LINE. An indoor or outdoor line in which one or more persons are
waiting for or receiving service of any kind, whether or not the service
involves the exchange of money. “Service lines” may include, but are not
limited to, ATMs, bus stops and ticket purchase lines.
   SHOPPING MALL. An enclosed public walkway or hall area that serves to
connect retail or professional establishments.
   SMOKING or TO SMOKE. Inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying any lighted
cigar, cigarette, pipe, weed, plant or other combustible substance in any
manner or in any form.
   SPORTS FACILITIES. Sports pavilions, open and covered stadiums, gymnasiums,
health spas, boxing arenas, swimming pools, roller and ice rinks, bowling
alleys and other similar places where members of the general public assemble to
engage in physical exercise, participate in athletic competition, or witness
sports or other events.
   STAND-ALONE BAR. Any place of business that is used to sell and serve
alcoholic beverages and for which there is no food service; and that is not
located within, and does not share any common entryway, opening or common
indoor area with, and is separately ventilated from, any other enclosed indoor
workplace.
(Ord. 04-001, passed 6-22-2004)
§ 95.04 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER TO TOWN OWNED FACILITIES.
   All enclosed facilities, including buildings and vehicles owned, leased or
operated by the town, shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 04-001, passed 6-22-2004)
§ 95.05 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   Smoking shall be prohibited in all enclosed public places within the town,
including, but not limited to, the following places:
   (A)   Aquariums, galleries, libraries and museums;
   (B)   Areas available to and customarily used by the general public in
businesses and non-profit entities patronized by the public, including, but not
limited to, professional offices, banks, laundromats, hotels and motels;
   (C)   Accessory bars;
   (D)   Bingo facilities when a bingo game is in progress;
   (E)   Convention facilities;
   (F)   Elevators;
   (G)   Facilities primarily used for exhibiting a motion picture, stage,
drama, lecture, musical recital or other similar performance;
   (H)   Health care facilities;
   (I)   Licensed child care and adult day care facilities;
   (J)   Lobbies, hallways and other common areas in apartment buildings,
condominiums, trailer parks, retirement facilities, nursing homes and other
multiple-unit residential facilities;
   (K)   Polling places;
   (L)   Public transportation facilities, including buses and taxicabs, under
the authority of the county, and ticket, boarding and waiting areas of public
transit depots;
   (M)   Restaurants;
   (N)   Restrooms, lobbies, reception areas, hallways and other common-use
areas;
   (O)   Retail stores;
   (P)   Rooms, chambers, places of meeting or public assembly, including
school buildings, under the control of an agency, board, commission, committee
or council of the county or a political subdivision of the state when a public
meeting is in progress, to the extent the place is subject to the jurisdiction
of the county;
   (Q)   Service lines;
   (R)   Shopping malls; and
   (S)   Sports facilities.
(Ord. 04-001, passed 6-22-2004) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Smoking shall be prohibited in all enclosed facilities within places
of employment without exception. This includes common work areas, auditoriums,
classrooms, conference and meeting rooms, private offices, elevators, hallways,
medical facilities, cafeterias, employee lounges, stairs, restrooms, vehicles
and all other enclosed facilities.
   (B)   This prohibition on smoking shall be communicated to all existing
employees by employers by the effective date of this chapter and to all
prospective employees upon their application for employment.
(Ord. 04-001, passed 6-22-2004) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.07 REASONABLE DISTANCE.
   Smoking is prohibited within a reasonable distance outside an opening to an
enclosed area where smoking is prohibited, so as to ensure that tobacco smoke
does not enter the area through entrances, windows, ventilation systems or
other means. The reasonable distance shall be a distance sufficient to ensure
that persons entering or leaving the building shall not be subjected to
breathing tobacco smoke. All smoking receptacles shall be placed outside the no
smoking area in order to discourage smoking in these areas.
(Ord. 04-001, passed 6-22-2004) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.08 WHERE SMOKING NOT REGULATED.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to the contrary, the
following areas shall be exempt from the provisions of §§
95.06 and
95.07:
   (A)   Private residences, except when used as a licensed child care, adult
day care or health care facility;
   (B)   Hotel and motel rooms that are rented to guests and are designated as
smoking rooms; provided that, not more than 20% of rooms rented to guests in a
hotel or motel may be designated as smoking. Hotels and motels that have 26 or
fewer rooms that are rented to guests may designate a percentage of rooms as
smoking and non-smoking; however, once designated, a room cannot be reversed;
   (C)   Outdoor areas of places of employment, except those covered by the
provisions of §
95.07;
   (D)   Native American or other religious ceremony practice pursuant to the
American Indian Religious Freedom Act of 1978, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 1996 and
1996a, as amended; and
   (E)   Stand-alone bars.
(Ord. 04-001, passed 6-22-2004)
§ 95.09 DECLARATION OF ESTABLISHMENT AS NON-SMOKING.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, an owner,
operator, manager or other person in control of an establishment, facility or
outdoor area may declare that entire establishment, facility or outdoor area as
a non-smoking place.
   (B)   Smoking shall be prohibited in any place in which a sign conforming to
the requirements of §
95.10(A) is posted.
(Ord. 04-001, passed 6-22-2004) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.10 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   (A)   “No Smoking” signs or the international “No Smoking” symbol
(consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a
red circle with a red bar across it) shall be clearly and conspicuously posted
in every public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited by
this chapter, by the owner, operator, manager or other person in control of
that place.
   (B)   Every public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited
by this chapter shall have posted at all primary public entrances a conspicuous
sign clearly stating that smoking is prohibited.
   (C)   All ashtrays and other smoking paraphernalia shall be removed from any
area where smoking is prohibited by this chapter by the owner, operator,
manager or other person having control of the area.
(Ord. 04-001, passed 6-22-2004) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.11 NON-RETALIATION.
   No person or employer shall discharge, refuse to hire, or in any manner
retaliate against an employee, applicant for employment, or customer because
that employee, applicant or customer exercises any rights afforded by this
chapter or reports or attempts to prosecute a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 04-001, passed 6-22-2004) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.12 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This chapter shall be enforced by the town or an authorized designee
such as the Town Marshal’s Office.
   (B)   Any citizen who desires to register a complaint under this chapter may
initiate enforcement with the town.
   (C)   The town, or its designees, shall, while an establishment is
undergoing otherwise mandated inspections, inspect for compliance with this
chapter.
   (D)   An owner, manager, operator or employee of an establishment regulated
by this chapter shall inform persons violating this chapter of the appropriate
provisions thereof.
   (E)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent or prohibit any
person aggrieved by a violation of this chapter to bring whatever legal
remedies are available under state law.
   (F)   In addition to the remedies provided by the provisions of this
section, the town, or any person aggrieved by the failure of the owner,
operator, manager or other person in control of a public place or a place of
employment to comply with the provisions of this chapter may apply for
injunctive relief to enforce those provisions in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (G)   The town or the designees may issue a notice of violation and demand
for compliance by certified or registered mail or by hand delivery to the
person violating this chapter. The Marshal’s Office may also assist with
delivery of the notice of violation and demand for compliance. The notice shall
state with reasonable specificity the nature of the violation and the deadline
for compliance and shall inform the violator that a hearing may be requested.
   (H)   Unless the violator either complies within the stated deadline or
requests a hearing within 15 days after service of the notice of violation and
demand for compliance, the town may issue a compliance order consistent with
the terms of the notice of violation.
   (I)   The town may appoint a Hearing Officer to conduct a hearing pursuant
to A.R.S. § 36-183.04. Hearings shall be conducted in the same manner as
hearings are conducted pursuant to A.R.S. §§ 41-1061 et seq. The Hearing
Officer shall either issue or deny a compliance order and shall make a finding
regarding a civil penalty as provided in §
95.99.
   (J)   A compliance order issued pursuant to this section is final and
enforceable in Magistrate Court unless the violator files an appeal to the
Director within 15 days after receiving the compliance order.
   (K)   On appeal, the town may affirm, modify or vacate the Hearing Officer’s
decision. The town shall consider the factors prescribed in division (L) below.
The town’s decision is enforceable as a judgment in Magistrate Court and is
subject to appeal pursuant to A.R.S. Title 12, Ch. 7, Art. 6.
   (L)   In determining the amount of a civil penalty under this section, the
town and the Hearing Officer shall consider the following:
      (1)   The seriousness of the violation;
      (2)   As an aggravating factor only, any economic benefit that results
from the violation;
      (3)   The history of that violation;
      (4)   The economic impact of the penalty on the violator;
      (5)   Any good faith efforts to comply with the applicable requirements;
      (6)   The duration of the violation as established by any credible
evidence;
      (7)   Payment by the violator of penalties previously assessed for the
same violation; and/or
      (8)   Other factors affecting the public health and safety the Director
deems relevant.
   (M)   All penalties collected pursuant to this section shall be deposited in
the General Fund of the town.
   (N)   Nothing in this section shall prevent or prohibit the town from filing
an action in Magistrate Court, through the Town Attorney, for a temporary
restraining order, preliminary or permanent injunctive relief, or any other
appropriate relief necessary to protect the public health or the environment,
or to compel compliance with a compliance order, including the collection of
civil penalties assessed under that order and/or the revocation or suspension
of any permit or license issued to the person for the premises on which the
violation occurred. The town may settle any action filed pursuant to this
section by submitting a consent decree that is agreed to by the parties for
approval by the Magistrate Court.
(Ord. 04-001, passed 6-22-2004)
§ 95.13 PUBLIC EDUCATION.
   The town shall engage in a continuing program to explain and clarify the
purposes and requirements of this chapter to citizens affected by it, and to
guide owners, operators and managers in their compliance with it. The program
may include publication of a brochure for affected businesses and individuals
explaining the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 04-001, passed 6-22-2004)
§ 95.14 GOVERNMENTAL AGENCY COOPERATION.
   The town (or designee) shall annually request other governmental and
educational agencies having facilities within town to establish local operating
procedures in cooperation and compliance with this chapter. This includes
urging all federal, state, county and school district agencies to update their
existing smoking control regulations to be consistent with the current health
findings regarding secondhand smoke.
(Ord. 04-001, passed 6-22-2004)
§ 95.15 OTHER APPLICABLE LAWS.
   This chapter shall not be interpreted or construed to permit smoking where
it is otherwise restricted by other applicable laws.
(Ord. 04-001, passed 6-22-2004)
§ 95.16 LIBERAL CONSTRUCTION.
   This chapter shall be liberally construed so as to further its purposes.
(Ord. 04-001, passed 6-22-2004)
§ 95.17 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be effective 90 days from and after the date of its
adoption (6-22-2004).
(Ord. 04-001, passed 6-22-2004)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited by the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of an infraction, punishable by a
fine not exceeding $50.
   (B)   A person who owns, manages, operates or otherwise controls a public
place or place of employment and who fails to comply with the provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of an infraction, punishable by:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $100 for a first violation;
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $200 for a second violation within one year;
and
      (3)   A fine not exceeding $500 for each additional violation within one
year.
   (C)   Each day on which a violation of this chapter occurs shall be
considered a separate and distinct violation.
(Ord. 04-001, passed 6-22-2004)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS
      
112.   AMUSEMENTS AND CARD GAMES
      
113.   BODY ART
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Transaction Privilege Tax
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Licensing
   
110.03   Imposition of tax; tax schedules and rates
   
110.04   General exemptions
   
110.05   Administration and procedures
   
110.06   Assessment and appeal
   
110.07   Violations
Business License Tax
   
110.20   License required
   
110.21   Issuance of license
   
110.22   Payment
   
110.23   Posting of license
   
110.24   Exhibition of license required
   
110.25   License not transferable
   
110.26   Business license fees
   
110.27   Grounds for denial/revocation of licenses
   
110.28   Hearing for denial/revocation of licenses
Cross-reference:
   Tax Code, see
Ch. 35
TRANSACTION PRIVILEGE TAX
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUDITOR. Any town employee or agent authorized by the Tax Collector to audit
records of a person subject to the tax specified by this subchapter and may
include an employee of another city or town.
   BUSINESS. Includes all activities or acts, personal or corporate, engaged in
and caused to be engaged in with the object of gain, benefit or advantage,
either direct or indirect, but not casual activities or sales.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY AND USE. No business license shall be issued for
any premises unless and until there shall be issued and outstanding a
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY AND USE showing the property to be classified for use
for the proposed or contemplated use set forth in the business license.
   CONTRACTING. Engaging in business as a contractor.
   CONTRACTOR. A person who, for either a fixed sum, price, fee, percentage,
bonus or other compensation other than actual wages, undertakes to or offers to
undertake to, or purports to have a capacity to undertake to, or submits a bid
to, or does himself or herself or by or through others, construct, alter,
repair, add to, subtract from, improve, move, wreck or demolish any building,
highway, road, railroad, excavation or other structure, project, development or
improvement, or to do any part thereof, including the erection of scaffolding
or other structures or works in connection therewith, and the term CONTRACTOR
includes subcontractors, speciality contractors, developers and speculative
builders.
   ENGAGING. When used with reference to engaging or continuing in business,
includes the exercise of corporate or franchise powers.
   FINANCE DIRECTOR. The Finance Director of the town.
   GROSS INCOME. The gross receipts of a taxpayer derived from trade, business,
commerce or sales and the value proceeding or accruing from the sale of
tangible personal property, or service, or both, and without any deduction on
account of losses.
   GROSS PROCEEDS OF SALES. The value proceeding or accruing from the sale of
tangible personal property sold, expense of any kind, or losses, but cash
discounts allowed and taken on sales shall not be included as gross income;
GROSS INCOME or GROSS PROCEEDS OF SALE shall not be construed to include goods,
wares or merchandise, or value thereof, returned by customers when the sale
price is refunded either in cash or by credit, nor the sale of any article
accepted as part payment on any new article sold, if and when the full sale
price of the new article sold, is included in the GROSS INCOME or GROSS
PROCEEDS OF SALES, as the case may be.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. The total amount of sale, lease or rental price, as the case
may be, of the retail sales of retailers, including any services that are part
of the sales, valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise,
including all receipts, cash, credits and property of every kind or nature, and
any amount for which credit is allowed by the seller to the purchaser, without
any deduction therefrom on account of the cost of the property sold, materials
used, labor or service performed, interest paid, losses or any other expense,
but the term GROSS RECEIPTS does not include cash discounts allowed and taken
or the sale price of property returned by customers when the full sale price
thereof is refunded either in cash or by credit.
   NOTICE. A written instrument served by the town, as follows, with time
commencing from date of mailing, serving, filing or recording:
      (1)   By registered or certified mail to the last known address of the
person to whom it is required to be given;
      (2)   By personal service upon the person or his or her lawful
representative; or
      (3)   By filing or recording with the Clerk of the Superior Court or a
County Recorder.
   PERSON or COMPANY. Used interchangeably, includes an individual, officer,
agent, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, corporation, estate,
trust or any other group or combination acting as a unit, and the plural as
well as the singular number.
   REPAIRER. A person who restores or renews products, wares or articles of
manufacture, but this definition shall not be interpreted to include activities
listed in §
110.03(A)(2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9) and (10).
   RETAIL SALE or SALE AT RETAIL. A sale for any purpose other than for resale
in the form of tangible personal property, but the expressions “transfer of
possession”, “lease” and “rental” as used in the definition of “sale”, mean
only the transactions as are found, upon investigation, to be in lieu of sales
as defined without the words “lease” or “rental”.
   RETAILER. Includes every person engaged in the business of making sales at
retail and when, in the opinion of the Tax Collector, it is necessary for the
efficient administration of this subchapter, includes dealers, distributors,
supervisors and employers, and salespersons, representatives, peddlers or
canvassers as the agents of the dealers, distributors, supervisors or employers
under whom they operate or from whom they obtain the tangible personal property
sold by them, whether in making sales on their own behalf or on the behalf of
the dealers, distributors, supervisors or employers.
   SALE. Any transfer of title or possession, or both, exchange, barter, lease
or rental, conditional or otherwise, in any manner or by means whatsoever, of
tangible personal property, for a consideration or any agreement therefor, and
includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Any transaction whereby the possession of property is transferred,
but the seller retains a security interest for the payment of the purchase
price;
      (2)   The fabrication of tangible personal property for consumers who
furnish either directly or indirectly the materials used in the fabrication
work, where the fabrication is customarily included in the sale price of
similar tangible personal property sold to consumers; and
      (3)   The furnishing, preparing or serving for a consideration of any
tangible personal property consumed on the premises of the person furnishing,
preparing or serving the tangible personal property.
   STOCK. The goods and wares of a person kept for sale and traffic, and for
the purpose of this subchapter shall include, but not be limited to, all
tangible personal property specially ordered for any customer, if for any
reason the specially ordered property is brought into the town prior to
completion of the sale.
   TANGIBLE PERSONAL PROPERTY. Personal property which may be seen, weighed,
measured, felt, touched or is in any manner perceptible to the senses.
   TAX COLLECTOR. The Finance Director of the town or his or her authorized
agent.
   TAXPAYER. Any person liable for any tax imposed by this subchapter.
   WHOLESALER or JOBBER. Any person who sells tangible personal property for
resale by a licensed retailer and does not sell tangible personal property for
consumption by the purchaser, but when a person normally selling for resale
makes any sale at retail or for consumption by the purchaser, the person is
defined as a “retailer” for purposes of this subchapter.
(1974 Code, § 8-2-1)
§ 110.02 LICENSING.
   (A)   Every person who receives gross proceeds of sales or gross income,
upon which a privilege tax is imposed by this subchapter desiring to engage or
continue in business, shall make application to the Collector for a privilege
license.
   (B)   Application for a privilege license required under this subchapter
shall be made upon forms prescribed by the Tax Collector.
   (C)   It shall be a condition precedent to licensing that all ordinances,
regulations and requirements affecting the public peace, health and safety be
complied with in toto.
   (D)   If the applicant is not in arrears in payment of any tax imposed by
this chapter, the Collector shall issue a license authorizing him or her to
engage and continue in the business, upon condition that he or she complies
with this subchapter. The license shall be continuous.
   (E)   Upon the failure of any person to pay the required tax, penalty or
interest within a period of 30 days after it becomes due, the Tax Collector
shall give the person notice of intent to cancel the privilege license. If the
person so notified requests a hearing within ten days from notice, he or she
shall be granted a hearing before the Tax Collector. Upon a finding by the Tax
Collector that tax, penalty or interest is unpaid and has remained unpaid at
least 30 days or, if no request for hearing has been received within ten days
after notification as herein provided, the privilege license shall be canceled
and the person shall not be relicensed until all taxes, penalty and interest
due shall have been paid.
   (F)   Any person whose privilege license has been canceled shall be required
to pay a fee of $10 for each reissuance of a license, and the license shall not
be reissued until all taxes, penalties and interest have been paid. The Tax
Collector may, at his or her discretion, reissue under the previous license
number or issue a new license.
   (G)   A person engaged in or conducting a taxable business in two or more
established locations within the town shall be required to obtain a separate
license for each location as well as a certificate of occupancy; except that,
for the business of leasing or renting the use or occupancy of real property,
only one application for the property within the town shall be required. The
applicant shall be required to list all property by street address or other
satisfactory identification and shall notify the Tax Collector within ten days
after sale or acquisition of any real property, clearly identified by location
in each instance.
   (H)   At the time a taxable business is sold, or when any other ownership
change occurs, a new privilege license shall be obtained for each license
effective at the time of the change.
   (I)   Any person holding a privilege license shall be required to notify the
Tax Collector of any change in either mailing address or location within 15
days after the change occurs. A fee of $1 shall be required whenever any change
in location of a business within the town occurs.
   (J)   Failure by any person engaging in a business subject to the town
transaction privilege tax to obtain a license before beginning or continuing
the business shall be a misdemeanor. Each day of operation without a license
shall constitute a separate violation.
   (K)   Failure to obtain a license before beginning or continuing the
business shall constitute a breach of agreement in regard to utilities and are
subject to disconnect.
   (L)   The license prescribed in this section shall be non-transferable and
shall be displayed in some conspicuous part of the applicant’s place of
business.
(1974 Code, § 8-2-2)
§ 110.03 IMPOSITION OF TAX; TAX SCHEDULES AND RATES.
   There is hereby levied upon persons on account of their business activities
within the town, and shall be collected by the Collector for the purpose of
raising revenue to be used in defraying the necessary expenses of the town,
privilege taxes to the extent hereinafter provided, to be measured by the gross
sales or gross income of persons, whether derived from residents of the town or
not; or whether derived from within the town or from without, and all of the
gross sales or gross income shall be used to measure the tax in accordance with
the following schedules:
   (A)   At an amount equal to 1% of the gross proceeds of sales or gross
income from the business upon every person engaging or continuing within the
town in the following businesses:
      (1)   Transporting for hire persons or property by any means of
transportation from a point within the town to another point within the town,
or from a point within the town to another point within the state;
      (2)   Mining, quarrying, smelting or producing for sale, profit or
commercial use, any oil, natural gas, limestone, sand, gravel, copper, gold,
silver or other mineral product, compound or combination of mineral products,
or felling, producing or preparing timber or any produce of the forest for
sale, profit or commercial use. In computing the tax, the price shall be
reduced by the actual freight paid by any person from the place of production
to the place of delivery when the freight is included in the sale prices of the
products;
      (3)   Operating a pipe line for transporting oil, or natural or
artificial gas, through pipes or conduits from a point within the town to
another point in the town or in the state;
      (4)   Operating private railroad car lines, as they are defined in A.R.S.
Title 40, Ch. 4, Art. 3, from one point within the town to another point in the
town or state;
      (5)   Publication of newspapers, magazines or other periodicals and
publications when published within the town including the gross income derived
from subscriptions sold within the town, advertising and notices. Subscriptions
sold with the town for newspapers, magazines or other periodicals and
publications published without the town shall also be taxable under this
section, and advertising sold within the town shall likewise be taxable;
      (6)   Job printing, engraving, embossing and copying, advertising by
billboards, direct mail, radio, television or by any means calculated to appeal
to prospective purchasers or users;
      (7)   Contracting within the town; but payments by the contractor for
labor costs incurred for the contracting may be deducted. Amounts paid by the
contractor for subcontractors may be deducted; providing that, subcontractors
and amounts paid to each are listed and providing that the subcontractors have
valid privilege licenses in the town. Gross receipts from sale of land by a
contractor or developer are subject to taxation under this section if the
contractor or developer has constructed physical improvements for the land
before the sale is made. Exception: a contractor constructing a building for
his or her own use, or a structure or parking lot to be rented by him or her,
is not taxable for his or her own activity of a project; providing, he or she
has paid all applicable privilege taxes on materials he or she purchased for
incorporation in the project. However, contracting activity by subcontractors
for a project shall be taxable;
      (8)   Conducting restaurants, dining cars, dining rooms, lunchrooms,
lunch stands, soda fountains or similar establishments where articles of food
or drink are sold for consumption on the premises or on the dining cars;
      (9)   Any business transmitting electronic impulses or signals, or
receiving and transmitting television signals or communications. In the case of
persons engaged in the business classified in division (A)(2) above, whose
incomes in whole or in part are derived from service or manufacturing charges
instead of from sales of the projects manufactured or handled, the rate shall
be applied to the gross income of the persons derived from the manufacturing or
service charge;
      (10)   Producing and furnishing, or furnishing to consumers, electricity,
electric lights, current, power or gas, natural or artificial, and water,
except those businesses furnishing the products taxed under any other chapter
of this code;
      (11)   When any person is engaged in the business of selling the tangible
personal property at both wholesale and retail, the retail rate shall apply
only to the gross proceeds of the sales made other than at wholesale when his
or her books are kept so as to show separately the gross proceeds of sales of
each rate shall be applied to the gross proceeds of every sale so made;
      (12)   The sale to hotels, restaurants, dining cars, lunchrooms, boarding
houses or similar establishments or articles used by humans for food, drink or
condiment, whether simple, mixed or compounded, where the articles are
customarily prepared and served to patrons for consumption on the premises or
on the dining cars, shall be deemed wholesale sales as to the commodities, and
the person who then resells the commodities in a cooked or prepared form shall
be deemed to be engaged in the business classified in this division (A);
      (13)   Selling tangible personal property whatsoever at retail or to the
ultimate consumer, including, but not limited to, sale of new or used vehicles
of any type, and sales made from mobile units when within the town. Gross
receipts from painting signs on structures within the town or upon vehicles
while within the town shall be taxed as retail sales, without deduction. Sales
of tangible personal property within the state which result from activities of
agents or representatives of agents or representatives of a person whose
principal or branch office within the state is within the town shall be
taxable; provided that, delivery is made from the town;
      (14)   Operating or conducting amusements, including, but not limited to,
theaters, movies, operas, exhibitions, concerts, carnivals, circuses, shows of
any type or nature, amusement park admissions, amusement rides, menageries,
fairs, races, contests, games, golf courses, tennis courts, batting or driving
ranges, riding on any animals, juke boxes, pinball machines, billiard and pool
parlors, bowling alleys, dance halls, public dances, boxing or wrestling
matches, or any other business charging admission fees for exhibition or
amusement. Non-profit private clubs, where basic membership fees cover use of
amusement facilities, and amusements conducted by the organizations themselves
on an occasional basis to raise funds for projects of bona fide religious
organizations, non-profit educational institutions and non-profit fraternal or
service clubs, shall not be subject to the tax prescribed by this subchapter;
      (15)   Leasing or renting for a consideration any tangible personal
property; sales of tangible personal property to be so leased or rented shall
be deemed to be resale sales. Leasing or renting for a consideration the use or
occupancy of real property, including any improvements, rights or interest in
the property;
      (16)   The tax prescribed under the terms of this section shall not apply
to events sponsored by the State Coliseum and Exposition Center Board or County
Fair Commission;
      (17)   Slaughtering animals for food, packing, processing or compounding
meat or meat products; and
      (18)   Selling poultry or stock feed to poultrymen or producers of
poultry and poultry products or to stockers or feeders of stock, at wholesale
prices for their own use and not for resale.
   (B)   Basis for taxation under certain conditions.
      (1)   In determining value as applied to sales from one to another
person, or other circumstances where the relation between the buyer and seller
is such that the gross proceeds from the sale are not indicative of the true
value of the subject matter of the sale, the Council may prescribe uniform and
equitable rules for determining the value upon which the tax shall be based,
corresponding as nearly as possible to the gross proceeds from the sale of
similar products of like quality or character by other taxpayers where no
common interest exists between the buyer and seller, but otherwise under
similar circumstances and conditions.
      (2)   For the purpose of computing the tax imposed by this subchapter,
conditional or time sales shall be treated as credit sales and the tax shall be
based only upon the amounts received under the security agreements, but if the
seller transfers his or her interest in the agreements to a third person, he or
she shall pay an amount based upon the full sale price of the commodity, unless
a record is kept of payments thereafter made on the contract in a manner that a
Tax Collector may, at all times, ascertain from the records of the seller the
amount paid thereon by the purchaser. If, at any time, the Tax Collector cannot
so ascertain the amount paid thereon, the tax shall be computed to include any
amounts not shown to be paid by the records of the seller to the satisfaction
of the Tax Collector.
      (3)   When any person is engaged in an occupation or business to which
this section is applicable, the person’s books shall be kept so as to show
separately the gross proceeds of sale of tangible personal property and the
gross income from sales of non-taxable service, and if not so kept, the tax
shall be based upon the total of the person’s gross proceeds of sales of
tangible personal property and gross income from service.
      (4)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the total amount of gross
income, gross receipts or gross proceeds of sale shall be deemed to be the
amount of the sale, exclusive of the tax imposed by this subchapter; providing,
the person upon whom the tax is imposed shall establish to the satisfaction of
the Tax Collector that any tax collected from customers has been added to the
sale price and not absorbed by him or her, and that all business records so
indicate.
   (C)   The following retail sales activities are exempted from taxation:
      (1)   Sales of tangible personal property to a person licensed as a
contractor under A.R.S. Title 32, Ch. 10, who holds a valid privilege tax
permit for engaging in or continuing in the business of contracting when the
property so sold is incorporated or fabricated by the contractor into any
structure, project, development or improvement in fulfillment of a contract
therefor;
      (2)   Sales of tangible personal property made directly to the United
States government, its departments or agencies, by the manufacturer, modifier,
assembler or repairer. A deduction of 50% shall be permitted where the sales
are made by persons other than those specified in the previous sentence;
      (3)   Sales of tangible personal property by persons engaging in or
continuing in the business of processing, manufacturing, fabricating,
modifying, assembling or repairing, when the sales are made for resale and not
at retail or not to an ultimate consumer;
      (4)   Sales of tangible personal property to manufacturers, modifiers or
assemblers where the property directly enters into and becomes an ingredient or
component part of any manufactured, fabricated or processed article, substance
or commodity for sale in the regular course of business;
      (5)   Services provided in connection with retail sales, if invoices to
the customer, sales tickets, cash register tapes, and all other business
records show separate charges for the services, but this exemption shall apply
only where the service is not customarily included in the retail sale itself
and where the service is not an essential element in the retail sale itself,
and no deduction shall be allowed for fabrication labor or retail items sold;
      (6)   Sales of tangible personal property without the corporate limits of
the town. For the purpose of this exemption, any person engaging or continuing
in the business to which this exemption is applicable, shall maintain and keep
accounting records or books indicating separately the gross proceeds of sale or
gross income of tangible personal property which occur without the corporate
limits, and if not so maintained the tax to be imposed will be upon the total
of the person’s gross proceeds of sale or gross income;
      (7)   The sales of drugs on the prescription of a member of the medical,
dental or veterinary profession who is licensed by law to administer the drugs;
      (8)   Tangible personal property purchased in the state by any hospital
organized and operated exclusively for charitable purposes, no part of the net
earnings of which inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or
individual, or by any hospital operated by the state or any political
subdivision of the state; and
      (9)   The sale of stocks or bonds.
(1974 Code, § 8-2-3)
§ 110.04 GENERAL EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The following shall not be subject to taxation under this subchapter:
      (1)   Any business, calling, profession or occupation where the general
law of the state or general law of the United States preclude the levying of a
tax;
      (2)   Sales in interstate or foreign commerce when prohibited from being
so taxed by the Constitution or general laws of the United States or by the
Constitution of the state;
      (3)   Professional services, instruction and other services not connected
with the making of retail sales;
      (4)   Sales of machinery or equipment to be used directly in
manufacturing, processing, fabricating, job printing, refining or metallurgical
operations, including leaching, milling, precipitating, smelting and refining;
      (5)   Sales of machinery or equipment to be used directly in the process
of extracting ore or minerals from the earth for commercial purposes, including
equipment required to prepare the materials for extraction and for the
handling, loading or transportation of the extracted material to the surface;
      (6)   Sales to telephone or telegraph companies of central office
switching equipment, switchboards, private branch exchange equipment, microwave
radio and carrier equipment, and coaxial cable;
      (7)   Sales of machinery, equipment or transmission lines to be used
directly in the production or transmission of electrical power, but not include
distribution, and in addition, transformers and control equipment used at
transmission substation sites;
      (8)   Sales of pipes or valves four inches in diameter or larger to be
used for transporting oil, natural gas, artificial gas, water or coal slurry;
      (9)   Sales of aircraft, navigational and communication instruments and
other accessories and related equipment to be used in conjunction with or
becoming part of aircraft to be used in transportation of persons, property or
U.S. mail in intrastate, interstate or foreign air transportation for hire by
airlines holding a federal or state certificate of public convenience and
necessity or holding a foreign air carrier permit;
      (10)   Sales of railroad rolling stock, rails, ties and signal control
equipment to be used directly in the transportation of persons or property in
intrastate or interstate transportation for hire;
      (11)   Sales of machinery or equipment to be used directly in the
drilling of oil or gas from the earth for commercial purposes; and
      (12)   Contracting, retail sales and any other taxable activity for the
town.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to sales of gasoline.
(1974 Code, § 8-2-4)
§ 110.05 ADMINISTRATION AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Vested administration. The administration of this subchapter,
including the duty of prescribing forms required under the terms of this
subchapter, is vested in and shall be exercised by the Finance Director, except
as otherwise specifically provided, and all payments shall be made to the
Finance Director. If payment is made in any other form than money which is
legal tender in the state and the United States of America, the tax obligation
shall not be ended until the check, bank draft or money order has been honored
by the person on whom drawn.
   (B)   Collector or agent may examine books and papers. The Collector or his
or her authorized agents may examine any books, papers, records or other data
bearing upon the correctness of any return or for the purpose of making a
return where none has been made, as required by the provisions of this
subchapter and may require the attendance of any person and take his or her
testimony with respect to any matter, with power to administer oaths to the
person. If any person summoned as a witness shall fail to obey any summons to
appear before the Collector, or his or her authorized agent, or shall refuse to
testify or answer any material question or to produce any books, records,
papers or other data when required to do so, the failure or refusal shall be
reported to the Town Attorney, who shall thereupon institute proceedings in the
Superior Court of the county where the witness resides to compel obedience to
any summons of the Collector or his or her authorized agent. Officers who serve
summons and subpoenas, and witnesses attending, shall receive like compensation
as officers and witnesses in the justice of the peace courts.
   (C)   Presumptions that all gross receipts are taxable. For the purpose of
the proper administration of this subchapter and to prevent evasion of the tax,
it shall be presumed that all gross receipts are subject to the tax until the
contrary is established by the person seeking the exemption from taxation. The
burden of providing that a sale of tangible personal property was not a sale at
retail shall be upon the person who made it, unless the person shall have taken
from the purchaser a certificate to the effect that the property was purchased
for resale.
   (D)   Tax imposed is cumulative. The tax imposed by this subchapter shall be
cumulative and supplemental to all other taxes levied by law.
   (E)   Records of the taxpayer.
      (1)   It is the duty of every person engaging or continuing in business
activities within the town for which a privilege tax is imposed by this
subchapter to keep and preserve for a minimum of three years, suitable records
of the gross income, gross receipts of sales, invoices for goods and
merchandise purchased and sold, resale certificates, job labor records and all
other books or accounts as shall be necessary to determine the amount of tax
for which the person is liable under the provisions of this subchapter.
Collection of back privilege taxes by the town shall be limited to a period of
three years prior to the date when the Tax Collector began an audit of the
taxpayer’s books, notified the person through use of ordinary mail concerning
an apparent violation of the chapter or took some other recorded action to
require a privilege tax permit application or other compliance with this
subchapter.
      (2)   All records mentioned in division (A) above shall be open for
examination at any time by the Tax Collector during normal business hours and
also at any other time that may be arranged by the Collector.
   (F)   Divulging of information forbidden. It is unlawful for any officer,
employee or agent of the town to make known in any manner whatsoever the
business affairs, operations or information obtained by an investigation of
records and equipment of any person visited or examined in discharge of their
official duty, or the amount or source of income, profits, leases, expenditures
or any particular thereof, set forth or disclosed in any return or report, or
the amount of tax paid. The Council may, by motion, authorize an examination of
the reports made pursuant to this subchapter by the United States Director of
Internal Revenue or the proper officials of the state. Successors, receivers,
trustees, executors, administrators and assignees, if directly interested, may
be given information as to the items included in the measure and amounts of any
unpaid tax or amount of tax required to be collected, interest and penalties.
Divulging of applicable information to any authorized employee or agent of an
incorporated city or town shall be permitted when an employee or agent of
another incorporated city or town is authorized by the Tax Collector to conduct
audits for the town. Information supplied on privilege license applications
shall not be considered as confidential. Any officer employee or agent of the
town shall be authorized to divulge the confidential information as may be
necessary upon the order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (G)   Inadequate records. In the event the records of the gross income,
gross receipts or gross proceeds of sales of the business, kept by the
taxpayer, are deemed by the Tax Collector to be unsuitable, or the taxpayer
does not keep other books or records as may be necessary to determine the
amount of the tax for which he or she is liable under the provisions of this
subchapter, the Tax Collector may prescribe the form and manner of keeping the
books and records. In the event the taxpayer fails or refuses to follow the
prescribed forms, and the Tax Collector cannot ascertain from the records kept
by the taxpayer the gross income, gross receipts or gross proceeds of sale of
the business, or the amount of the tax for which the taxpayer is liable under
the provisions of this subchapter, the Tax Collector may proceed as though the
taxpayer failed or refused to make a return in the manner prescribed by this
subchapter.
   (H)   When tax payable; monthly and quarterly returns.
      (1)   Except as otherwise specified in this subchapter, the taxes levied
under this subchapter shall be due and payable on or before the last day of the
month next succeeding the period in which the tax accrues and shall be
delinquent five days thereafter. The taxpayer shall, on or before the last day
of the stated month, make out a return showing the gross amount, any authorized
deductions, taxable amount and amount of the tax due for the preceding month.
The taxpayer shall be required to use the report form authorized by the Tax
Collector, and shall mail or deliver the same together with remittance for the
amount of tax due, payable to the town, to the Tax Collector or any town
employee authorized to receive the payment. The tax return shall be signed by
the taxpayer or his or her authorized agent, and the signature shall be
evidence that the person signing the return verifies the accuracy of the
information supplied in the return.
      (2)   In any case where the taxpayer has reported a total taxable amount
of $1,500 or less for the previous calendar quarter of the year, the taxpayer
may make application to report and pay the tax on a quarterly basis, upon the
written approval of the Tax Collector. Any taxpayer on a quarterly reporting
basis must report and pay the accrued tax due on or before the last day of the
month following the calendar quarter to be reported. If the taxpayer later
reports a total taxable amount for any quarter of $1,500 or more, he or she
shall report and pay on a monthly basis.
   (I)   Cash receipts or accrual basis. The taxpayer may elect to file returns
and pay his or her tax either on a cash receipts or accrual basis, but the
taxpayer shall not change from one basis to the other without the prior written
approval of the Tax Collector. As a condition of granting the approval, the
Collector may require an audit of the taxpayer’s records.
   (J)   Consolidated returns. Any person engaging in two or more forms of
business of like classification taxable under this subchapter may file a
consolidated return covering all business activities of like classification
engaged in within the town.
   (K)   Extension of time for making returns. The Tax Collector may for good
cause extend the date for making any return required under the provisions of
this subchapter, but the date for filing the return shall not be extended
beyond the last day of the second month next succeeding the regular due date.
   (L)   Penalty for delinquency. Any taxpayer who shall have failed to pay the
tax within five days from the date upon which the payment shall have become due
shall be subject to and shall pay a penalty of 10% of the amount of the tax,
together with interest on the tax at a rate of 0.5% per month or fraction
thereof until paid.
   (M)   Correction of errors. If the taxpayer makes an error in computing the
tax assessable against him or her, the Tax Collector shall correct the error
and notify the taxpayer promptly by ordinary mail that the correction has been
made. Any additional tax for which the taxpayer becomes liable shall be payable
within ten days after the letter or form showing the correction is mailed to
the taxpayer. If the taxpayer makes an error which results in overpayment of
tax, the Tax Collector shall allow credit against tax due on future returns, or
shall authorize a refund to the taxpayer.
   (N)   Duties of person quitting business; successor or assignee. Any person
who sells his or her business or stock of goods or quits business shall be
required to make the return provided for under this subchapter within 15 days
after the date he or she sold his or her business or stock of goods, or quits
business, and his or her successor in business or assignee shall be required to
withhold a sufficient amount of the purchase money to cover the amount of the
taxes due and unpaid until the time as the former owner shall produce a receipt
from the Tax Collector showing that the taxes have been paid, or a certificate
that no taxes are due.
      (1)   If the purchaser of a business or stock of goods shall fail to
withhold purchase money and the taxes shall be due and unpaid after the 15-day
period, he or she shall be personally liable for the payment of the taxes
accrued and unpaid on account of the operation of the business by the former
owner.
      (2)   Transaction privilege tax liability of the purchaser shall be
limited to no more than that accrued during a period of one full year prior to
date the business purchase becomes effective.
      (3)   If the purchaser refuses or fails to pay the back taxes accrued
during the period within 30 days after the Tax Collector mails a letter or
other notice by ordinary mail to the purchaser requesting payment of back
taxes, the purchaser is guilty of a misdemeanor subject to the penalties
provided in this subchapter.
   (O)   Tax is a lien; procedure.
      (1)   The tax imposed by this subchapter, if not reported and paid by the
due date specified by this subchapter, shall constitute a lien on the property
of any person subject to this subchapter. The procedure to perfect the lien
shall be as prescribed by this section.
      (2)   The Tax Collector shall give written notice to the taxpayer at his
or her last known mailing address by certified or registered mail or the notice
may be sent to the address at which the business is conducted. The written
notice shall indicate that the town will file a lien on the subject property
unless the taxpayer reports and pays all the tax past due including any
penalties and interest due under this subchapter, or provides satisfactory
evidence to the Tax Collector that no taxes are due, within a period of 30 days
from service or receipt of the written notice.
      (3)   If the taxpayer does not pay taxes due or provide evidence that no
taxes are due within 30 days after service or receipt of the written notice,
the Tax Collector may prepare in triplicate copies of a “notice of claim of
lien” and file one copy with the County Recorder in which the property is
located. The Tax Collector shall then promptly send by certified or registered
mail a copy to the taxpayer at his or her last known mailing address or at the
address at which the business is conducted. The “notice and claim of lien”
shall contain the following:
         (a)   A description of the property sufficient for identification;
         (b)   The name of the taxpayer as owner or reputed owner of the
property; and
         (c)   The amount of the delinquent tax, including penalties and
interest or, if this amount cannot be determined precisely because suitable
records and books were not made available by the taxpayer, the amount assessed,
including penalties and interests, by the Tax Collector as authorized by this
subchapter when the books and records are not available or are unsuitable.
      (4)   From and after the date of its recording in the office of the
County Recorder, the lien shall attach to the property until paid. A sale of
the property to satisfy the lien shall be made upon judgment of foreclosure and
order of sale. The town shall have the right to bring an action to enforce the
lien in the Superior Court of the county in which the property is located, at
any time after its recording, but failure to enforce the lien by the action
shall not affect its validity. The recorded “notice and claim of lien” shall be
prima facie evidence of the truth of all matters recited therein and the
regularity of all proceedings prior to the recording therein.
      (5)   A prior recording for the purposes provided in this section shall
not be a bar to the subsequent recording of a lien for those purposes, and any
number of the liens on the same property may be enforced in the same action.
   (P)   Taxpayer’s liability. The liability of the taxpayer for taxes due
shall remain the same, whether he or she collects sufficient added payments
from his or her customers to cover the taxes due.
      (1)   Where the taxpayer fails to show “tax collected”, deductible
“repair labor” and other deductible “service” on invoices to customers, sales
slips or cash register slips, and on all applicable books and records, he or
she shall be liable for taxation on his or her full gross receipts without
allowance for the items.
      (2)   The burden of proof for all deductions by any taxpayer shall be on
the taxpayer, who must prove to the satisfaction of the Tax Collector that the
deductions shall have been legal and proper under this subchapter. A person
taking deductions for “resale” or for “payments to subcontractors” shall not
take the deductions unless the persons for whom deductions are taken have
obtained the required privilege tax permits.
   (Q)   Tax liabilities of partners. All taxes assessed upon the business
activities of a partnership shall be a liability and charges against each and
all of the individual partners; but when paid by the partnership, the liability
against each and all of the individual partners shall cease.
(1974 Code, § 8-2-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.06 ASSESSMENT AND APPEAL.
   (A)   Assessment procedure. If any person who is required to file a return
under the provisions of this subchapter fails or refuses to make a return, the
Tax Collector shall proceed, in a manner as he or she may deem best, to obtain
facts and information on which to base the assessment of the tax herein
prescribed and, to this end, the Tax Collector may make examination of the
books, records and papers of any person and may take the evidence, on oath, of
any person whom he or she may believe to be in possession of facts or
information pertinent to the subject of inquiry, which oath the Tax Collector
may administer. If no other information is readily available, the Tax Collector
may make a reasonable judgment on the basis of past reports by the taxpayer or
by any predecessor. When the Tax Collector has reached a decision as to the
assessment, he or she shall notify the taxpayer in writing of the assessment,
which shall become final within 30 days after the notice has been mailed or
served, unless the taxpayer shall notify the Tax Collector in writing of a
request for a tax hearing within the 30 days and setting forth grounds and
reasons for a hearing.
   (B)   Hearing at taxpayer’s request. When a taxpayer requests a hearing as
indicated in division (A) above, the hearing shall normally be held in some
suitable room in the principal office of the town. The Finance Director may
choose another suitable room in the same town, or by mutual agreement with the
taxpayer, he or she may hold the hearing in another place as may prove
desirable. The hearing shall be conducted before the Council in the presence of
the Finance Director, and it shall be closed to all except the Finance Director
and his or her authorized representatives and the taxpayer and his or her
authorized representatives, unless the taxpayer agrees in writing to waive
restrictions on release of confidential information. The Finance Director shall
provide the taxpayer with not less than ten days’ notice of the date, time and
place of the hearing. During the hearing, the taxpayer or his or her authorized
representative may present any evidence he or she deems appropriate to the
issues or questions under consideration. Within 15 days after the conclusion of
the hearing, the Finance Director shall affirm, modify or vacate any decision
made with respect to the issues or questions discussed in the course of the
hearing. Notice of the decisions shall be provided to the taxpayer by the
Finance Director as provided in this subchapter, and the decision shall be
effective in ten days after service of notice.
   (C)   Payment under protest. If any person feels aggrieved by a tax
assessment or believes that any or all of his or her activities are not subject
to the privilege tax required by this subchapter, he or she shall pay the
amount of the assessment or tax claimed due before the delinquent date and
shall at that time give notice in writing to the Tax Collector that all or part
of the payment is made under protest, and shall in the notice give the grounds
and reasons for the protest and that a certain part thereof, or that the total
sum, is protested.
      (1)   Within ten days after receipt of the protest, the Tax Collector
shall reply, in writing, to the last known mailing address of the taxpayer,
stating whether the assessment or tax applied is to be changed as requested,
and giving reasons for the decision.
      (2)   If the taxpayer is then dissatisfied, he or she may take
appropriate action in the superior court to recover payments made under
protest. Court action shall be taken within 60 days after the Tax Collector has
mailed his or her reply as required by division (C)(1) above. Failure to take
court action within the required 60-day period shall make the protest null and
void.
      (3)   If court action has been taken by the taxpayer under protest, all
subsequent payments due shall be paid on or before the due date. However, if
each tax form is plainly marked “paid under protest”, the subsequent payments
shall be treated as part of the original protest until the time as court
remedies have been exhausted or the court action withdrawn by the taxpayer.
   (D)   Injunctions. No injunction shall be awarded by any court or judge to
restrain the collection of the tax imposed by this subchapter or to restrain
the enforcement of this subchapter.
   (E)   Collection of delinquent taxes.
      (1)   If any tax imposed by this subchapter, or any portion thereof, is
not paid within 30 days after the same becomes delinquent, the Tax Collector
shall be empowered to commence court action in any appropriate court of
competent jurisdiction to collect tax, penalties and interest due, and to
utilize any and all appropriate remedies as authorized under the laws of the
state. The actions may be commenced whether separate criminal charges have been
filed to cover alleged failure to comply with this subchapter.
      (2)   Every tax imposed by this subchapter, and all increases, interest
and penalties thereon, shall become, from the time the same is due and payable,
a personal debt from the person liable to the town, and it shall be payable to
and recoverable by the Tax Collector.
   (F)   Adoption of administrative procedure. The Council is authorized to
adopt written administrative regulations to implement the enforcement of this
subchapter or to further define terms used in the subchapter. The
administrative regulations shall be enforceable as though they were integral
portions of the subchapter itself.
   (G)   State administrative procedures. Except where the regulations would
conflict with administrative regulations adopted by the Council or with
provisions of this subchapter, all regulations on the transaction privilege tax
adopted by the State Tax Commission as part of the State Administrative
Procedure Act, Title 41, Art. 11, and amendments thereto, shall be considered
as part of this subchapter and enforceable as such.
(1974 Code, § 8-2-6)
§ 110.07 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Advertisement regarding taxes. It is unlawful for any person engaged
in any of the businesses subject to the tax imposed by this subchapter to
advertise or hold out to the public in any manner, directly or indirectly, that
the tax imposed by this subchapter is not considered as an element in the price
to the customer.
   (B)   Permit required. It is unlawful for any person engaging in a business
subject to the transaction privilege tax to fail to obtain a permit before
beginning or continuing the business.
   (C)   Tax collection from customers. Any person, who collects added payments
from customers stated or indicated to be for the purpose of meeting privilege
tax obligations of the person, shall be required to use the money only for that
purpose. If any person fails to pay privilege tax due to the town within a
period of 30 days after the date the tax is due, and evidence is provided that
the person has at any time collected the added payments from customers, the
person is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (D)   Failure to make return. It is unlawful for any person or for any
officer or agent of any company or corporation to fail or refuse to make the
returns to pay tax provided to be made by the provisions of this subchapter, or
to make or permit to be made any false or fraudulent return or false statement
in any return required by this subchapter. It is unlawful for any person for
any reason to aid or abet another in any attempt to evade the payment of the
tax, or any part thereof, imposed by this subchapter or for any person or
officer or agent of a company to fail or refuse to permit the examination of
any book, paper, account, record or other data by the Tax Collector as required
by this subchapter.
   (E)   False statements and the like. It is unlawful for any person to
knowingly swear to, affirm or verify any false or fraudulent statement with the
intent to defraud the town or to evade payment of tax required, or any part
thereof.
(1974 Code, § 8-2-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
BUSINESS LICENSE TAX
§ 110.20 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to carry on any trade, calling, profession,
occupation or business, specified in this subchapter without having procured a
license from the town and complying with any and all regulations of the trade,
calling, profession, business or occupation specified in this subchapter.
(1974 Code, § 8-3-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.21 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare and to issue a license
under this subchapter for every person, firm, company or corporation liable to
pay a license hereunder, and to state in each license the amount thereof, the
period of time covered, the name of the person, firm or corporation for whom
issued, the trade, calling, profession, occupation or business licensed, and
the location or place of business where the trade, calling, profession,
occupation or business is carried on.
   (B)   In no case shall any mistake of the Clerk in stating the amount of a
license prevent or prejudice the collection for the town of what shall be
actually due from anyone carrying on a trade, calling, profession, occupation
or business, subject to license under this subchapter.
(1974 Code, § 8-3-2)
§ 110.22 PAYMENT.
   (A)   All business license taxes shall be paid at the office of the Clerk or
in a manner as may be specified by the Clerk. All licenses shall be issued for
a full fiscal year beginning on July 1 of each year and expiring on June 30 of
each year. All applications received from July 1 through December 31 of the
same year shall be subject to the full amount of the annual business license
fee. Applications received after December 31 and before June 30 shall be
subject to one-half of the license fee.
   (B)   A separate license must be obtained for each branch establishment or
separate place of business in which any trade, calling, profession, occupation
or business is carried on. Each license shall authorize the person obtaining
the license to carry on, pursue or conduct, only that trade, calling,
profession, occupation or business described in the license and only at the
location or place of business which is indicated.
   (C)   Every person engaged in more than one business in the same location
for which license fees are hereinafter provided shall pay the highest fee which
is set up for any of the businesses in which he or she is engaged at the
location.
(1974 Code, § 8-3-3)
§ 110.23 POSTING OF LICENSE.
   Every person, firm, company or corporation having a license under the
provisions of this subchapter, and carrying on a trade, calling, profession,
occupation or business at a fixed place of business shall keep the license
posted and exhibited, while in force, in some conspicuous part of the place of
business. Every person having a license, and not having a fixed place of
business, shall carry the license with him or her at all times while carrying
on that trade, calling, profession, occupation or business for which the same
was granted. Every person, firm, company or corporation having a license under
the provisions of this subchapter shall produce and exhibit the same, when
applying for a renewal thereof, and whenever requested to do so by any police
officer or by any other officer authorized to issue, inspect or collect
licenses.
(1974 Code, § 8-3-4)
§ 110.24 EXHIBITION OF LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall have and exercise the power to make arrests
and to cause complaints to be filed against all persons violating the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Chief of Police or any duly authorized official shall have the
power to enter free of charge at any time that any place of business for which
a license is required by this subchapter is open for business or is actually
conducting business activities on its premises, and to demand the exhibition of
the license for the current term, from any person engaged or employed in the
transaction of any such business, and if that person shall then and there fail
to exhibit the license, that person shall be in violation of this subchapter.
(1974 Code, § 8-3-5) (Ord. 12-008, passed 8-8-2012)
§ 110.25 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   No license granted or issued under the provisions of this subchapter shall
be, in any manner, assignable or transferable to any other person, firm,
company or corporation other than is herein mentioned or named, without
permission from the Council.
(1974 Code, § 8-3-6)
§ 110.26 BUSINESS LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   All businesses, occupations, professions, trades or callings shall pay
a license tax of $25 annually, unless otherwise specified.
   (B)   Transient merchants shall pay a license tax of $5 per day or $30
annually.
(1974 Code, § 8-3-7)
§ 110.27 GROUNDS FOR DENIAL/REVOCATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   A person or entity may be denied a license, or if the person or entity
currently possesses a license, such license may be revoked for causing any of
the following to occur;
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application for license;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in the course of
carrying on the business;
      (3)   Conducting a business in violation of any town ordinance, Coconino
County ordinance, or state law after reasonable efforts by town staff and other
government officials to enforce compliance have failed;
      (4)   Conviction of any felony or any misdemeanor involving moral
turpitude;
      (5)   Failure to pay any required fee(s) when due;
      (6)   Failure of the person or entity to demonstrate fitness to conduct
the business or commission of acts demonstrating a lack of fitness to conduct
the business.
   (B)   Notice of the license denial or revocation shall be given in writing
by the Town Manager, setting forth specifically the grounds of the denial or
revocation. Such notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, certified mail, to
the business address shown on the application for license.
(Ord. 2018-001, passed 6-19-2018)
§ 110.28 HEARING FOR DENIAL/REVOCATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by the denial of an application for license, or
with the decision to revoke the license, shall have the right of appeal to the
Town Council. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the Town Clerk a
written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal within 15 business days
of the date of the notice from the town as described in §
110.27(B). If no appeal is filed, the notice from the Town Manager provided
under §
110.27(B) shall be final and binding.
   (B)   If an appeal is filed with the Town Clerk in a timely manner, the Town
Council shall set a time and place for an appeal hearing on such matter before
the Town Council, and notice of such hearing shall be given to the applicant in
the same manner as described in § 110.27(B). The hearing shall be held no
earlier than five business days and no later than 30 calendar days after filing
of the appeal. The hearing shall be conducted in an informal manner and the
rules of evidence shall not apply. The Town Council shall issue a written
decision within five business days after the hearing and shall mail a copy of
the decision in the same manner as described in §
110.27(B). The decision of the Town Council in such appeal shall be final and
conclusive, except any person aggrieved may pursue any proper judicial
proceedings.
   (C)   A person or entity can petition to have their license reinstated after
all violations have been connected and all applicable fees have been paid,
provided such person or entity meets the qualifications required for issuance.
Until such reinstatement, it is unlawful to conduct the business.
(Ord. 2018-001, passed 6-19-2018)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS
Section
   
111.01   Registration required
   
111.02   Application to Police Chief
   
111.03   Issuance of registration cards
   
111.04   Revocation of registration cards
   
111.05   Peddling without registration cards prohibited
   
111.06   Permission required for selling on streets and sidewalks
   
111.07   Signs to be observed
   
111.08   Newsboys exempt
§ 111.01 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   Any person operating as a solicitor, peddler, hawker, salesperson or vendor
of goods, wares, merchandise, newspapers, magazines or services, who goes from
house to house, or to only one house, in the town, shall register with the town
and obtain an identification card showing the registration.
(1974 Code, § 8-1-1)
§ 111.02 APPLICATION TO POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   Applicants for registration under the terms of §
111.01 shall be required to furnish two satisfactory photographs of the
applicant, one to be attached to the applicant’s registration card and the
other to be retained by the Clerk. The town shall require the applicant to file
his or her fingerprint identification.
   (B)   (1)   The applicant for registration shall be required to furnish a
complete description of the product to be sold in the town, together with
information regarding sales methods to be used and references that will enable
the town to determine whether or not the applicant is qualified to receive a
registration card as provided in §
111.03.
      (2)   Investigation under the provisions of this chapter shall be
completed within 15 days after the applicant has given the required
information.
(1974 Code, § 8-1-2)
§ 111.03 ISSUANCE OF REGISTRATION CARDS.
   Registration cards under this chapter shall be given without charge to all
applicants who have complied with §
111.02, unless the town discovers that any applicant is deemed not to be a
proper person to be permitted to go from house to house because of any of the
following reasons:
   (A)   He or she is associated with a company that has engaged in fraudulent
dealings; or
   (B)   The proposed sales proposition includes some element of trickery,
fraud or deceit, in which case, in the interest of public safety and
protection, the applicant shall not be registered.
(1974 Code, § 8-1-3)
§ 111.04 REVOCATION OF REGISTRATION CARDS.
   Registration cards under this chapter may be revoked by the town at any time
if deemed necessary in the interest of public safety and protection.
(1974 Code, § 8-1-4)
§ 111.05 PEDDLING WITHOUT REGISTRATION CARDS PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to take part in the act of soliciting,
peddling, hawking, selling or vending of goods, wares, merchandise, newspapers,
magazines or services from house to house, or to only one house, in the town
without having registered with the town and without having obtained a
registration card; without having the card in possession; or failing to exhibit
the card when request is made for the registration card by any resident of the
town.
(1974 Code, § 8-1-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.06 PERMISSION REQUIRED FOR SELLING ON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any booth, stand or
counter on any sidewalk in the town for the purpose of barter, sale or trade,
or keep or maintain upon the streets or alleys any wagon, cart, wheel, vehicle,
movable booth or stand for the purpose of barter or trade without obtaining
permission of the Town Manager.
(1974 Code, § 8-1-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.07 SIGNS TO BE OBSERVED.
   It is unlawful for any peddler, solicitor or canvasser in the course of his
or her business to ring the doorbell or knock at any building whereon a sign
bearing the words “no peddlers, solicitors, or canvassers” is exposed to public
view.
(1974 Code, § 8-1-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.08 NEWSBOYS EXEMPT.
   Newsboys are exempt from the provisions of this chapter for the sale of
newspaper subscriptions.
(1974 Code, § 8-1-8)
CHAPTER 112: AMUSEMENTS AND CARD GAMES
Section
   
112.01   License required
   
112.02   Application filed with the Clerk
   
112.03   Inspection of premises
   
112.04   Revocation of license
   
112.05   Closing of premises
§ 112.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to carry on the business
of keeping, maintaining or offering for rent or any other compensation or
amusement any tables or devices on which or by means of which any game of cards
or other similar game can be played without first obtaining a license therefor
as provided in this chapter.
(1974 Code, § 8-4-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.02 APPLICATION FILED WITH THE CLERK.
   Any person desiring a license to operate any table or device described in §
112.01 shall file with the Clerk an application in writing. The application
shall include the number and kind of the table or device, the names of all
persons operating or to be interested in the business or enterprise, the exact
street address of each place where the tables or devices are to be kept or
used, the games which will be permitted to be played upon or by means of the
tables or devices and the rental or fees to be charged therefor.
(1974 Code, § 8-4-2)
§ 112.03 INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   Every person owning, operating or in any way connected with any of the
activities or the keeping, maintaining or operation of any of the devices
regulated by this chapter shall, at all times during which activities are
carried on or the devices are being used, keep the rooms, building or other
place in which the activities are carried on or the devices used well-lighted
and open to inspection by any police officer. No curtain or other device shall
obscure vision through the windows of the room, building or place. There shall
be no lookout guard or any mechanical warning device to warn occupants of the
place of the approach of any person.
(1974 Code, § 8-4-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The license herein provided for may be revoked at any time by the Council
with or without cause. Violations of any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be sufficient cause for the licensed premises and any equipment or device
situated therein to be declared a nuisance.
(1974 Code, § 8-4-4)
§ 112.05 CLOSING OF PREMISES.
   Any premises declared to be a nuisance under the terms of this chapter may
be closed, padlocked and placed under the custody of the Marshal. Any removable
property declared to be a nuisance hereunder may be seized, taken and stored by
any police officer of the town. In the event of any property being so closed or
seized, as soon as practicable a complaint in writing shall be brought before
the Town Magistrate. The Magistrate shall proceed to a full hearing of the
matter and shall make the disposition of the property concerned as he or she
shall deem advisable.
(1974 Code, § 8-4-5)
CHAPTER 113: BODY ART
Section
   
113.01   Approval and adoption of code
§ 113.01 APPROVAL AND ADOPTION OF CODE.
   The Council approves the application and enforcement of the County
Department of Health Services Body Art Sanitation Code within the corporate
limits of the town.
(Res. 02-002, passed 3-26-2002)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Public Health and Safety Offenses
   
130.01   Cellar doors
   
130.02   Coal holes or other openings
   
130.03   Dangerous constructions
   
130.04   Damage to property
   
130.05   Deposits of injurious material on thoroughfares
   
130.06   Reserved
   
130.07   Excavations to be covered
   
130.08   Explosives
   
130.09   Fences; barbed wire and electric
   
130.10   Reserved
   
130.11   Littering
   
130.12   Loitering
   
130.13   Minors
   
130.14   Noise
   
130.15   Obscene literature or conduct
   
130.16   Obstruction of streets
   
130.17   Obstruction of view
   
130.18   Offensive premises
   
130.19   Reserved
   
130.20   Possession of mutilated tires
   
130.21   Posting bills without permission
   
130.22   Reserved
   
130.23   Registers to be kept by hotels, boarding, rooming and lodging houses
   
130.24   Searchlights
   
130.25   Signs and banners
   
130.26   Spitting
   
130.27   Water; flow upon streets prohibited
   
130.28   Weapons
   
130.29   Town park hours
   
130.30   Alcohol on town premises prohibited
   
130.31   Glass bottles on outdoor premises prohibited
   
130.32   Regulation of communication devices and texting while operating a
motor vehicle
   
130.33   Regulation of dumping at the town burn pile
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Traffic Code, see Title VII
Editor’s note:
   This chapter was revised 4- -1983.
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY OFFENSES
§ 130.01 CELLAR DOORS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for the owner or occupant of any building having a
cellar opening upon any street or sidewalk to fail to keep the door or other
covering thereof in good repair and safe for the passage of traffic on the
street or sidewalks.
   (B)   If the owner or occupant of any building shall neglect or refuse to
repair properly any door or covering for 24 hours after notice from the
Supervisor of Streets or Town Engineer, the Supervisor or Engineer shall cause
the repairs to be made at the expense of the owner or occupant.
   (C)   A violation of this section is considered a petty offense with each
day such activity continues being considered a new offense. For petty offense
penalties, see §
130.99.
(1974 Code, § 10-1-1) (Ord. 13-004, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 130.02 COAL HOLES OR OTHER OPENINGS.
   (A)   It is unlawful to construct or maintain coal holes or other openings
in streets or sidewalks, except under the supervision of the Town Engineer, and
then only after the grant of special permission by the Council.
   (B)   A violation of this section is considered a petty offense with each
day such activity continues being considered a new offense. For petty offense
penalties, see §
130.99.
(1974 Code, § 10-1-2) (Ord. 13-004, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 130.03 DANGEROUS CONSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to maintain or allow any signs,
billboards, awnings and other similar structures over or near streets,
sidewalks, public grounds or places frequented by the public, so situated or
constructed as to endanger the public safety.
   (B)   A violation of this section is considered a petty offense with each
day such activity continues being considered a new offense. For petty offense
penalties, see §
130.99.
(1974 Code, § 10-1-3) (Ord. 13-004, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 130.04 DAMAGE TO PROPERTY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to damage in any manner or attempt to
damage or tamper with any pipe lines, water hydrants, street lamps or lights,
or the fixtures and appliances pertaining to the water or sewer works, or any
other property of any and every character belonging to the town.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to deface, walk, ride or drive upon or
over any sidewalk or street crossing composed of or containing cement, during
the construction thereof, or before the same is thrown open to public use.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to damage in any
manner any road, street or bridge in the town limits by using the same, by
heavy vehicles, malicious destruction or by any act that will result in damage
to any road, street or bridge.
   (D)   It is unlawful to break or destroy any window, door or part of any
dwelling owned or occupied by another or to break or sever from any premises
owned or occupied by another any gate, fence, railing, tree, brush or vine or
any property whatsoever, or to deface, mutilate or injure the same.
   (E)   A violation of this section is considered a Class 1 misdemeanor. For
Class 1 misdemeanor penalties, see §
130.99.
(1974 Code, § 10-1-4) (Ord. 12-005, passed 8-8-2012; Ord. 13-004, passed 10-8-
2013)
§ 130.05 DEPOSITS OF INJURIOUS MATERIAL ON THOROUGHFARES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, either willfully and maliciously or
carelessly and negligently to drop, throw, place or scatter upon any street,
alley, sidewalk or public place in the town any nails, tacks, broken glass,
glass bottles or any instrument or thing whatsoever of a nature as to be
capable of injuring persons or property.
   (B)   A violation of this section is considered a Class 2 misdemeanor. For
Class 2 misdemeanor penalties, see §
130.99.
(1974 Code, § 10-1-5) (Ord. 13-004, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 130.06 RESERVED.
§ 130.07 EXCAVATIONS TO BE COVERED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to make any excavation or dig any hole,
drain or ditch in any highway or thoroughfare in the town without providing a
sufficient light at night and a temporary fence or suitable obstruction around
or in front of the excavation during the day.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to maintain a well, cellar, pit or other
excavation of more than two feet in depth on any unenclosed lot, without
substantial curbing, covering or protection.
   (C)   A violation of this section is considered a Class 2 misdemeanor. For
Class 2 misdemeanor penalties, see §
130.99.
(1974 Code, § 10-1-7) (Ord. 13-004, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 130.08 EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person within the limits of the town to blast,
or use powder, fireworks or other explosives without a permit from the Chief of
Police approved by the Council in writing.
   (B)   A violation of this section is considered a Class 1 misdemeanor. For
Class 1 misdemeanor penalties, see §
130.99.
(1974 Code, § 10-1-8) (Ord. 13-004, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 130.09 FENCES; BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to erect or maintain within the town any
electric fence or any fence constructed in whole or in part of barbed wire. Any
fence is a public nuisance and subject to abatement by order of the Town Court.
   (B)   A violation of this section is considered a petty offense with each
day such activity continues being considered a new offense. For petty offense
penalties, see §
130.99.
(1974 Code, § 10-1-10) (Ord. 13-004, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 130.10 RESERVED.
§ 130.11 LITTERING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      INJURIOUS OR DANGEROUS MATERIAL. Any item or material which may cause
injury to a person or which poses a danger to persons or property, including,
but not limited to, sharp objects or debris, acid, chemicals, sewer, explosive
material or devices, paint, ammunition and the like.
      LARGE OBJECTS.
         (a)   Objects which are too large or heavy to place into a canister,
including furniture, bicycles, appliances, building materials, metal and the
like.
         (b)   Refrigerators, freezers, batteries and injurious or dangerous
materials are not included.
      LITTER. Any item or material which is not injurious or dangerous.
   (B)   Prohibited behavior. Without lawful authority, a person shall not
litter or pollute by knowingly doing, permitting or facilitating any of the
following:
      (1)   Throwing, placing or dropping any litter on public property or the
property of another which is not immediately removed;
      (2)   Throwing, placing or dropping any injurious or destructive material
on any public property or the property of another; and/or
      (3)   Discharging, depositing, throwing or dripping sewage, oil products,
acids, chemicals or other harmful substances into any waters or onto a
watershed.
   (C)   Deposits. Not withstanding division (B) above, a person who is a
resident of the state may deposit:
      (1)   Limbs, wood and combustible wood products at the sign designated
“burn pile”, which is maintained by the town;
      (2)   Tires at the sign designated “tire pile”, which is maintained by
the town; and/or
      (3)   Large objects at designated hours when an attendant is present, at
the sign designated “roll-off dumpster”, which is maintained by the town.
   (D)   Penalties.
      (1)   A violation of §
130.11(B)(1) is a Class 2 misdemeanor when the litter is 300 pounds or less in
weight and 100 cubic feet or less in volume. A violation of §
130.11(B)(1) is a Class 1 misdemeanor when the litter is more than 300 pounds
in weight or more than 100 cubic feet in volume.
      (2)   A violation of §
130.11(B)(2) or (B)(3) is a Class 1 misdemeanor.
      (3)   In addition to any other penalty, a violator may be required to
reimburse the property owner or damages, including the cost of removing the
litter or material and restoring the property to its original condition.
      (4)   For Class 1 and Class 2 misdemeanor penalties, see §
130.99.
(1974 Code, § 10-1-13) (Ord. 06-001, passed 1-24-2006; Ord. 13-004, passed 10-
8-2013)
§ 130.12 LOITERING.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, other than the owner, manager or his or
her authorized representative, to interfere individually or collectively with
free enjoyment of the property by the owners thereof; or interfere with the
conduct of any lawful business by obstructing entrance to the business or by
obstructing free passage of persons or merchandise or commodities within the
place of business, or by obstructing service rendered by the business to its
customers.
   (B)   A violation of this section is considered a Class 3 misdemeanor. For
Class 3 misdemeanor penalties, see §
130.99.
(1974 Code, § 10-1-14) (Ord. 13-004, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 130.13 MINORS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person 18 years old or under to idle or loiter
upon the streets or public places of the town after the hour of 10:00 p.m. on
Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday; and after 1:00 a.m. on Friday
and Saturday unless the person is accompanied by a parent, guardian or some
person of lawful age having legal custody of the person. It is unlawful for any
parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of the
person to encourage or allow the person to idle or loiter upon the streets or
public places after the hour of 10:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday and Thursday; and 1:00 a.m. on Friday and Saturday unless accompanied
by the parent or guardian. The provisions of this section shall not apply when
the person is upon an emergency errand or legitimate business directed by his
or her parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of
the person.
   (B)   This section does not apply to a minor who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor's presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the Town, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the Town, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with the law.
   (C)   A violation of this section is considered a Class 2 misdemeanor. For
Class 2 misdemeanor penalties, see §
130.99.
(1974 Code, § 10-1-15) (Ord. 12-007, passed 8-8-2012; Ord. 13-004, passed 10-8-
2013)
§ 130.14 NOISE.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and it is unlawful for
any person, firm or corporation owning or operating or in control of any
restaurant, hotel, dance hall, show, store or any place of public amusement,
entertainment or accommodation, to play or permit to be played any music or
musical instrument or instruments whether played by individuals, orchestra,
radio, phonograph, music box or other mechanical device or means in a loud or
unusual manner as to be offensive to the senses, or so as to disturb the
slumbers, peace and quiet, or otherwise interfere with or annoy the comfortable
enjoyment of life or property of any considerable number of persons in the
neighborhood, and is no less a nuisance because the extent of the annoyance
inflicted is unequal.
   (B)   It is unlawful to play, operate or use any device known as a sound
truck, loudspeaker or sound amplifier, radio or phonograph with loudspeaker or
sound amplifier or any instrument of any kind or character which emits loud and
raucous noises and is attached to and upon any vehicle unless the person in
charge of the vehicle shall have first applied to and received permission from
the Chief of Police to operate any vehicle so equipped.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle which shall
not, at all times, be equipped with a muffler upon the exhaust thereof in good
working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise,
and it is unlawful for any person operating any motor vehicle to use a cut-out,
by-pass or similar muffler elimination appliance.
   (D)   Penalties.
      (1)   A violation of §
130.14(A) is a Class 2 misdemeanor.
      (2)   A violation of §
130.14(B) or (C) is a petty offense.
      (3)   For Class 2 and petty offense penalties, see §
130.99.
(1974 Code, § 10-1-16) (Ord. 13-004, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 130.15 OBSCENE LITERATURE OR CONDUCT.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      KNOWINGLY. Having general knowledge of, or reason to know, or a belief or
ground for belief that warrants further inspection or inquiry of the character
and content of any material described in this section.
      MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, or other
printed or written material or any picture, drawing, photograph, film,
negative, motion picture or other pictorial representation or any statue or
other figure, or any recording, transcription or mechanical, chemical, or
electrical reproduction or any other articles, equipment, machines, or
materials.
      OBSCENE. Any material which:
         (a)   The average person, applying contemporary community standards
would find that the work, taken as a whole, appeals to the prurient interest in
sex; and
         (b)   The work depicts or describes patently offensive representations
or descriptions of ultimate sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated,
or patently offensive representations or descriptions of masturbation,
excretory functions or lewd exhibition of the genitals or genital area; and
         (c)   The work taken as a whole lacks serious literary, artistic,
political, or scientific value.
      PROMOTE. To produce, direct, perform in, manufacture, issue, sell, give,
provide, lend, mail, deliver, transfer, publish, distribute, circulate,
disseminate, present, exhibit, or advertise or offer to agree to do any of
these things.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the town to knowingly
promote any obscene material.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person who operates a business in the
town, and for any employee, including but not limited to a ticket seller,
ticket taker, usher, motion picture machine operator, or any other person, or
any independent contractor or agent, connected with or Employed by such person,
to knowingly exhibit or show, or to knowingly aid or assist in the Exhibition
of, any obscene motion picture, slide or exhibit in the town.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, mark, post, draw or
cause to be placed, posted, marked or drawn upon any fence, billboard,
building, door, wall, pavement, or other surface exposed to the public view,
any obscene, indecent, offensive or profane work, writing, picture,
representation or drawing.
   (E)   Any violation any of the provisions of this section or failure to
comply with the provisions hereof shall be considered a class 1 misdemeanor
with a minimum fine of no less than $250 per violation. Every day of such
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(1974 Code, § 10-1-17) (Ord. 12-006, passed 8-8-2012) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.16 OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to obstruct any public street or alley,
sidewalk or park or other public grounds within the town by committing any act
of, or doing any thing which is injurious to the health, or indecent or
offensive to the senses, or to do in or upon any streets, alleys, sidewalks,
parks or other public grounds, any act or thing which is an obstruction or
interference to the free use of property or with any business lawfully
conducted by anyone, in or upon, or facing or fronting on any of the streets,
alleys, sidewalks, parks or other public grounds in the town.
   (B)   A violation of this section is considered a petty offense with each
day such activity continues being considered a new offense. For petty offense
penalties, see §
130.99.
(1974 Code, § 10-1-18) (Ord. 13-004, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 130.17 OBSTRUCTION OF VIEW.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to maintain or allow any tree, hedge,
billboard or other obstructions which prevent persons driving vehicles on
public streets, alleys or highways from obtaining a clear view of traffic when
approaching an intersection or pedestrian crosswalk.
   (B)   A violation of this section is considered a petty offense with each
day such activity continues being considered a new offense. For petty offense
penalties, see §
130.99.
(1974 Code, § 10-1-19) (Ord. 13-004, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 130.18 OFFENSIVE PREMISES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to suffer or permit any premises
belonging to or occupied by him or her, or any cellar, privy, vault, pool,
sewer or private drain therein to become noxious, foul or offensive to the
senses or prejudicial to the public health or comfort.
   (B)   A violation of this section is considered a Class 2 misdemeanor. For
Class 2 misdemeanor penalties, see §
130.99.
(1974 Code, § 10-1-21) (Ord. 13-004, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 130.19 RESERVED.
§ 130.20 POSSESSION OF MUTILATED TIRES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to buy, sell, receive, dispose of,
conceal or have in his or her possession any motor vehicle tire or casing from
which identification marks have been obliterated or removed, defaced or
changed, covered or destroyed, whether in whole or in part.
   (B)   A violation of this section is considered a Class 2 misdemeanor. For
Class 2 misdemeanor penalties, see §
130.99.
(1974 Code, § 10-1-24) (Ord. 13-004, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 130.21 POSTING BILLS WITHOUT PERMISSION.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, acting for himself or herself or
through an agent, or for the agent, to print, paint, write or, in any way, post
up any notice, card, advertisement or other device upon any tree, post or pole,
upon any street at any time or to post any notice, card, advertisement or other
device upon any wall, fence, tree, post, pole, building or other property
without the permission of the owner or person in charge thereof.
   (B)   A violation of this section is considered a petty offense with each
day such activity continues being considered a new offense. For petty offense
penalties, see §
130.99.
(1974 Code, § 10-1-25) (Ord. 13-004, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 130.22 RESERVED.
§ 130.23 REGISTERS TO BE KEPT BY HOTELS, BOARDING, ROOMING AND LODGING HOUSES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for the keeper of any hotel, boarding house, lodging
house or rooming house to fail to keep a register in which the keeper shall
require each guest to write his or her name and place of residence before
occupying any sleeping or other room. The keeper shall be required to enter on
the register opposite the name of guest, the number, letter or other
designation of the room assigned to the guest. The register shall be open to
public inspection at all times until one year after the register shall have
been filed. The register shall be a permanently bound blank book sufficient in
size to contain all the information herein provided to be placed in the same.
It is unlawful for any person, being the owner, proprietor, clerk or any other
person having regular or temporary charge of any hotel, boarding house, lodging
house or rooming house, to violate any provisions of this section.
   (B)   A violation of this section is considered a petty offense with each
day such activity continues being considered a new offense. For petty offense
penalties, see §
130.99.
(1974 Code, § 10-1-27) (Ord. 13-004, passed 10-8-2013) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.24 SEARCHLIGHTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to operate within the town any
incandescent or arc-type searchlight, beacon light or similar lighting device
designed to and capable of projecting a beam of light into the sky for a
distance in excess of one-half mile unless permission is obtained from the
Council. The provisions of this section shall not apply to emergency
searchlights or beacons operated pursuant to public authority.
   (B)   A violation of this section is considered a petty offense with each
day such activity continues being considered a new offense. For petty offense
penalties, see §
130.99.
(1974 Code, § 10-1-28) (Ord. 13-004, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 130.25 SIGNS AND BANNERS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to place any banner or sign upon any
street light pole, traffic signal pole or utility pole within the town without
first obtaining authorization from the Council.
   (B)   A violation of this section is considered a petty offense with each
day such activity continues being considered a new offense. For petty offense
penalties, see §
130.99.
(1974 Code, § 10-1-29) (Ord. 13-004, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 130.26 SPITTING.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to spit upon any of the public sidewalks
or crosswalks in the town or upon any public path, byway or highway or in or on
any public ground or park in the town, or upon the floor or interior of any
public building in the town.
   (B)   A violation of this section is considered a petty offense with each
separate act being considered a new offense. For petty offense penalties, see §
130.99.
(1974 Code, § 10-1-30) (Ord. 13-004, passed 10-8-2013) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.27 WATER; FLOW UPON STREETS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to willfully or negligently permit or
cause the escape or flow of water in a quantity as to cause flooding, or to
impede vehicular or pedestrian traffic, to create a hazardous condition to the
traffic or to cause damage to the public streets of the town.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to willfully or negligently permit or
cause the escape or flow of irrigation water in a quantity as to cause
flooding, to impede vehicular or pedestrian traffic, to create a hazardous
condition to the traffic or to cause damage to the public streets of the town
through the failure or neglect to properly operate or maintain any irrigation
structure, delivery ditch or waste ditch in which the person has a vested right
or interest or through the willful or negligent failure of the person to accept
irrigation water after it has been ordered by him or her.
   (C)   A violation of this section is considered a petty offense with each
day such activity continues being considered a new offense. For petty offense
penalties, see §
130.99.
(1974 Code, § 10-1-31) (Ord. 13-004, passed 10-8-2013) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.28 WEAPONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person within the limits of the town to fire or
discharge any firearm, BB gun, air gun, pellet gun, dart gun, slingshot, gas-
operated gun or other similar gun or instrument.
   (B)   The prohibitions of the preceding division (A) shall not apply to the
use of any gun or instrument by:
      (1)   A law enforcement officer or other duly authorized public official
or employee in the performance of any official duty;
      (2)   Any person to whom a license, permit or authority is issued by the
Chief of Police of the town for the use of a gun or instrument for a valid and
proper purpose and for use in a manner not likely to harm any person, animal or
property; and/or
      (3)   Any person when used only for the necessary protection of property,
habitation or person in a manner authorized by the laws of the state under or
within rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the state or the United States
of America.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person, except a peace officer in actual
service and discharge of his or her duty, to have concealed on or about his or
her person a weapon.
      (1)   WEAPON, as used in this section means anything readily capable of
lethal use and possessed under circumstances not manifestly appropriate for
lawful uses which it may have. The term WEAPON includes a firearm which is not
loaded or lacks a clip or other component to render it immediately operable,
and components which can readily be assembled into a weapon.
      (2)   A weapon is not a concealed weapon, as used in this section, if:
         (a)   It is carried in a belt holster, which holster is wholly or
partially visible, or is carried in a scabbard or case designed for carrying
weapons, which scabbard or case is wholly or partially visible; and/or
         (b)   It is located in a closed trunk, luggage or glove compartment of
a motor vehicle.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person to recklessly or carelessly handle a
weapon.
   (E)   Any person other than a peace officer on duty carrying a weapon, upon
entering any public place or attending a public event, may be required by the
operator of the establishment or the sponsor of the event to remove his or her
weapon and place it in the custody of the operator of the establishment or the
sponsor of the event.
   (F)   A person who sells or gives to a minor under the age of 18 years,
without written consent of the minor’s parent or legal guardian, a weapon,
ammunition or toy pistol by which dangerous and explosive substances may be
discharged, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (G)   (1)   The possession of deadly weapons, as defined in A.R.S. § 13-3101
(A)(1), is hereby prohibited in the town hall building, except as authorized
under A.R.S. § 13-3102(C).
      (2)   The Town Manager is directed to place a public sign on the building
notifying the public of this prohibition.
   (H)   A violation of this section is considered a Class 1 misdemeanor. For
Class 1 misdemeanor penalties, see §
130.99.
(1974 Code, § 10-1-32) (Res. 03-012, passed 12-9-2003; Ord. 13-004, passed 10-
8-2013)
§ 130.29 TOWN PARK HOURS.
   (A)   It is unlawful to be in the town park system between the hours of 12:
00 midnight and 5:00 a.m. unless a permit has been obtained from the town
office for a special event.
   (B)   A violation of this section is considered a petty offense. For petty
offense penalties, see §
130.99.
(1974 Code, § 10-1-33) (Ord. 13-004, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 130.30 ALCOHOL ON TOWN PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful to have alcohol on premises owned by the town unless a
permit has been obtained.
   (B)   A violation of this section is considered a petty offense with each
separate act being considered a new offense. For petty offense penalties, see §
130.99.
(1974 Code, § 10-1-34) (Ord. 13-004, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 130.31 GLASS BOTTLES ON OUTDOOR PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful to have glass bottles on outdoor premises owned and
operated by the town.
   (B)   A violation of this section is considered a petty offense with each
separate act being considered a new offense. For petty offense penalties, see §
130.99.
(1974 Code, § 10-1-35) (Ord. 13-004, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 130.32 REGULATION OF COMMUNICATION DEVICES AND TEXTING WHILE OPERATING A
MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      HANDS-FREE MOBILE DEVICE.
         (a)   A device that has an internal feature or function, or that is
equipped with an attachment or addition, whether or not permanently part of
such device, which is not held by the driver during motor vehicle use. The
device must not obstruct the driver’s view of the front or sides of the motor
vehicle or interfere with the safety or operating equipment of the motor
vehicle.
         (b)   A device that is programmed before a person begins to drive or
operate a motor vehicle such as a global positioning device (GPS).
      MOTOR VEHICLE, DRIVE and DRIVER. Have the same meaning as those terms are
defined in A.R.S. Title 28, Ch. 1, Transportation.
      PORTABLE COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Any handheld mobile telephone, personal
digital assistant (PDA), handheld device with mobile data access, laptop
computer, pager, electronic game, or portable computing device.
      USE. Holding a portable communications device and performing illegal
activities stated in division (B).
   (B)   Illegal activities. Illegal motor vehicle driver activities include:
      (1)   A person shall not drive a motor vehicle while using a portable
communications device to engage in a call unless that device is configured to
allow hands-free listening and talking, and is used exclusively in that manner
while driving.
      (2)   Texting and typing while operating a motor vehicle are banned.
   (C)   Exemptions. This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   When the driver uses a hands-free mobile device;
      (2)   When the purpose of the call is to communicate an emergency to a
Police or Fire Department, a hospital or physician’s office, or an ambulance
corps;
      (3)   When operating an authorized law enforcement or emergency vehicle
in the performance of official duties;
      (4)   When a driver holds a valid amateur radio operator license issued
or any license issued by the Federal Communications Commission or the driver
uses a two-way radio, including radios used in the Citizens Band (CB) service;
      (5)   When a person is driving a school bus or transit vehicle that is
subject to Arizona Revised Statutes or United State Department of
Transportation regulations;
      (6)   When a person is driving a motor vehicle on private property; and
      (7)   When a driver has pulled off of the traveled portion of the roadway
in a safe and legal location and placed the vehicle in park in order to operate
a handheld portable communications device.
   (D)   Enforcement and penalties.
      (1)   Enforcement shall be the responsibility of the city, county and
State of Arizona law enforcement representatives.
      (2)   A law enforcement officer may stop a motor vehicle or motor driven
cycle if the officer has reasonable cause to believe a violation of this
section is occurring.
      (3)   A violation of this section is a civil traffic violation.
      (4)   A person found to be in violation of this section and not involved
in a motor vehicle crash is subject to a civil penalty of $100 plus any other
penalty assessment authorized by law.
      (5)   A person found to be in violation of this section and involved in a
motor vehicle crash is subject to a civil penalty of $250 plus any other
penalty assessments authorized by law.
      (6)   Violations of this section shall be administered pursuant to the
procedures for civil traffic violations as set out in A.R.S. §§ 28-1591 through
28-1601.
   (E)   Warning period. For the purpose of informing and educating persons who
operate motor vehicles and motor driven cycles any law enforcement officer may
only issue verbal warnings to persons who would be violating the section for a
six month period after the section is adopted.
   (F)   For any violation of this section, in addition to any other penalties,
a civil fine in the amount of $100 per violation will be assessed and due to
the town. Such civil fine shall not apply in the case of any violation of this
section where a motor vehicle accident occurred as per the restrictions of
A.R.S. § 28-1598.
(Ord. 14-002, passed 7-8-2014)
§ 130.33 REGULATION OF DUMPING AT THE TOWN BURN PILE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALLOWABLE MATERIALS. The following are allowable materials as defined by
the town for purposes of this section.
         (a)   Tree branches;
         (b)   Limbs;
         (c)   Stumps;
         (d)   Grass clippings;
         (e)   Leaves;
         (f)   Brush, bushes.
      BURN PILE. A designated location within town limits where tree limbs,
yard clippings, leaves, weeds, or other natural wood products or untreated
milled wood products can be dumped.
      NON-RESIDENT. Any person(s) not residing within town limits.
      RESIDENT.
         (a)   Any person(s) residing within town limits.
         (b)   Any person(s) owning or leasing property within town limits.
      UNLAWFUL MATERIALS. Trash and debris, including but not limited to:
paper, plastic, cardboard, treated lumber, construction trash, drywall, wood
paneling, pallets, rocks, dirt, manure, mattresses, couches, chairs, metal,
wire, and wood furniture.
   (B)   Any resident may dump any of the allowable materials at the designated
burn pile.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any non-resident to dump any allowable materials at
the burn pile unless at least one of the following requirements have been met.
      (1)   They have obtained in advance an annual permit from the town office
(annual permit fee is $200).
      (2)   They have paid a single load fee of $10 to the town office in
advance in person or online, and show proof of payment.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any resident or non-resident to dump any unlawful
materials at the burn pile at any time.
   (E)   Any violation of any provision of this section is designated as a
petty offense. For petty offense penalties, see §
130.99.
(Ord. 2021-002, passed 12-28-2021)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter where the offense
is designated as a Class 1, 2, or 3 misdemeanor shall be subject to all
penalties available under the Arizona Revised Statutes, A.R.S. Title 13, for
Class 1, 2, or 3 misdemeanors, respectively. Such penalties are included by
reference and will not require amendment of this section when any applicable
amendment to the A.R.S. becomes effective.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter where the offense
is designated as a petty offense shall be subject to a fine of up to $300 per
offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be considered to have committed a petty
offense.
(Ord. 13-004, passed 10-8-2013)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
152.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
153.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
150.01   Flood damage prevention regulations adopted by reference
§ 150.01 FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s flood damage prevention regulations, and any and all amendments,
are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Res. 05-002, passed 1-25-2005)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
151.01   Adoption of Uniform Building Code
   
151.02   Must conform to zoning ordinance
   
151.03   Plumbing Code
   
151.04   Electrical Code
   
151.05   Mechanical Code
   
151.06   Building Inspector
   
151.07   Sidewalk construction
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt codes by reference, see A.R.S. §§ 9-801 et seq.
§ 151.01 ADOPTION OF UNIFORM BUILDING CODE.
   The codes entitled “International Building Code,” 2006 Edition, and
“International Residential Code,” 2006 Edition, both copyrighted by the
International Code Council, Inc., are hereby adopted as the “Uniform Building
Code of the Town of Fredonia” and made a part of this chapter the same as
though each was specifically set forth in full herein; and at least three
copies of each shall be filed in the Office of the Clerk and kept available for
public use and inspection.
(1974 Code, § 7-1-1) (Ord. 15-003, passed 7-14-2015)
§ 151.02 MUST CONFORM TO ZONING ORDINANCE.
   Whenever a building permit is issued and a building inspection performed,
the building must conform to the provisions of the town’s zoning ordinance in
addition to the provisions of this chapter.
(1974 Code, § 7-1-2)
§ 151.03 PLUMBING CODE.
   The code entitled “International Plumbing Code,” 2006 Edition, copyrighted
by the International Code Council, Inc., is hereby adopted as the “Uniform
Plumbing Code of the Town of Fredonia” and made a part of this chapter the same
as though it was specifically set forth in full herein; and at least three
copies of such code shall be filed in the Office of the Clerk and kept
available for public use and inspection.
(1974 Code, Art. 7-2) (Ord. 15-003, passed 7-14-2015)
§ 151.04 ELECTRICAL CODE.
   The code entitled “National Electrical Code of 2006,” copyrighted by the
National Fire Prevention Association, is hereby adopted as the “Uniform
Electrical Code of the Town of Fredonia” and made a part of this chapter the
same as though it was specifically set forth in full herein; and at least three
copies of such code shall be filed in the Office of the Clerk and kept
available for public use and inspection.
(1974 Code, Art. 7-3) (Ord. 15-003, passed 7-14-2015)
Cross-reference:
   Electricity provisions generally, see
Ch. 50
§ 151.05 MECHANICAL CODE.
   The code entitled “International Mechanical Code,” 2006 Edition, copyrighted
by the International Code Council, Inc., is hereby adopted as the “Uniform
Mechanical Code of the Town of Fredonia” and made a part of this chapter the
same as though it was specifically set forth in full herein; and at least three
copies of such code shall be filed in the Office of the Clerk and kept
available for public use and inspection.
(1974 Code, Art. 7-4) (Ord. 15-003, passed 7-14-2015)
§ 151.06 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector and administrative authority as such may be
referenced in any section of this chapter for all matters pertaining to any
building, plumbing, electrical or any other inspections shall be vested in the
office of the Clerk; provided that, the Council may authorize persons as needed
to perform any inspection work or other functions that may be required by this
chapter.
(1974 Code, Art. 7-5)
§ 151.07 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It is unlawful for any person, either as owner, agent, servant, contractor
or employee to construct where grade has been established, any sidewalk in the
town unless the sidewalk shall be constructed to lines and grades as given and
established by the Town Engineer, unless special permission to deviate from the
lines and grades is first obtained from the Town Council. All sidewalks shall
be constructed under the inspection of the Town Engineer.
(1974 Code, Art. 7-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Purpose
   
152.002   Short title
   
152.003   Authority
   
152.004   Subdivision Committee
   
152.005   Relationship to comprehensive general plan
   
152.006   Relationship to specific plans, precise plans and official plan lines
   
152.007   Relationship to town code
   
152.008   Administration
   
152.009   Definitions
Preliminary Plat
   
152.020   Pre-application
   
152.021   Filing procedure, fee and distribution
   
152.022   Form of preliminary plat
   
152.023   Plat contents
   
152.024   Supplementary information
   
152.025   Revised plats
   
152.026   Division into units
   
152.027   Expiration of approval; extension of time
   
152.028   Refiling following disapproval
   
152.029   Subdivision Committee review and action
   
152.030   Council review and action
   
152.031   Public hearing
Final Plat
   
152.045   General requirements
   
152.046   Fees
   
152.047   Form of final plat
   
152.048   Title sheet
   
152.049   Information on final plat
   
152.050   Monuments
   
152.051   Survey requirements
   
152.052   Certificates on final plat
   
152.053   Drainage plan
   
152.054   Dedications
   
152.055   Improvements
   
152.056   Procedure for final approval and recordation
   
152.057   Council action
   
152.058   Agreements and performance
Design Standards
   
152.070   Streets
   
152.071   Alleys
   
152.072   Easements
   
152.073   Blocks
   
152.074   Lots
   
152.075   Public open spaces
   
152.076   Water, sewer and other underground utilities
   
152.077   Water system design
   
152.078   Improvement standards
Permit for Building; Compliance with Code
   
152.090   Building permit
 
   
152.999   Penalty
Editor’s note:
   This chapter was revised 4- -1983.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   In order to classify, restrict, regulate, preserve, protect and
promote the public health, safety, convenience, peace, comfort and general
welfare there is hereby adopted and established as provided herein, a code for
the division of land and subdivision regulations for the town, as amended as
provided for by A.R.S. Title 9, Ch. 4, Art. 6.2.
   (B)   More specifically, these regulations are adopted to achieve the
following objectives:
      (1)   To implement a town code to regulate the division of land;
      (2)   To provide lots and parcels of sufficient size and appropriate
design for the purposes for which they are to be used;
      (3)   To provide streets of adequate capacity for the anticipated traffic
which would utilize them and ensure that they are designed to promote a safe
traffic circulation system;
      (4)   To accommodate new development in a manner which will preserve and
enhance the town’s environment and create new beauty through skilled
subdivision designs;
      (5)   To provide for water supply, sewage disposal, storm drainage and
other utilities and facilities to ensure a safe and healthful environment;
      (6)   To ensure that the costs of providing rights-of-way, street
improvements, utilities and public areas and facilities needed to serve new
developments are borne fairly and equitably by the subdivider and his or her
purchasers rather than by property owners of the town at large;
      (7)   To protect and enhance real property values and protect and
preserve the environment; and
      (8)   To facilitate the transfer of lands having accurate legal
descriptions and to establish and ensure the rights, duties and
responsibilities of subdividers and developers with respect to land
development.
(1974 Code, § 14-1-1)
§ 152.002 SHORT TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known as the “Subdivision Regulations of the Town
of Fredonia, Arizona”.
(1974 Code, § 14-1-2)
§ 152.003 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   These regulations shall be governed by state laws governing the
division and platting of land pursuant thereto. The town subdivision
regulations are a necessary and integral set of procedures and requirements
developed in conjunction with the town code, and necessary for the
implementation of the town general plan.
   (B)   These three instruments of town planning and zoning constitute the
regulations necessary to implement the intent and meaning of A.R.S. Title 9,
Arts. 6, 6.1 and 6.2.
(1974 Code, § 14-1-3)
§ 152.004 SUBDIVISION COMMITTEE.
   There is hereby created a Subdivision Committee to act in an advisory
capacity to the Council, and the Committee shall consist of the following
members: the Director of Public Works, one Council member, the Building
Inspector and two appointed citizens. The Subdivision Committee shall meet at
least once a month or as required, and may hold additional meetings as the
matters to be considered by it may require. The Subdivision Committee shall
consider preliminary and final plats and shall report its finding and
recommendations to the Planning and Zoning Commission and to the Council. The
Director of Public Works shall be the Chair of the Committee or he or she may
delegate the authority to another of the Committee members. If a quorum of the
Subdivision Committee cannot be formed due to vacancy of seats on the
Subdivision Committee, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall assume the
duties of the Subdivision Committee until such time as a quorum can be formed.
(1974 Code, § 14-2-1) (Ord. 2022-003, passed 5-3-2022)
§ 152.005 RELATIONSHIP TO COMPREHENSIVE GENERAL PLAN.
   A subdivision plat shall conform to the principles and standards of the
town’s general plan and the town’s planning and zoning ordinance as adopted by
the Council. It shall conform to the elements thereof with respect to the type
and intensity of land use, population densities and distribution, locations and
sizes of public areas and rights-of-way and improvement of streets. The
alignment of major and secondary streets shall conform with the alignments
shown on the town general plan and the town’s transportation study, or as
required by the Council.
(1974 Code, § 14-2-2)
§ 152.006 RELATIONSHIP TO SPECIFIC PLANS, PRECISE PLANS AND OFFICIAL PLAN
LINES.
   A subdivision plat shall conform to the plans and specifications for
streets, public areas and other projects adopted by the Council.
(1974 Code, § 14-2-3)
§ 152.007 RELATIONSHIP TO TOWN CODE.
   No land shall be subdivided and developed for any purpose not contemplated
or specifically authorized by the Council. A subdivision plat shall conform in
all respects to applicable regulations of the town code, including uses of
land, lot sizes and dimensions and space for off-street parking areas.
(1974 Code, § 14-2-4)
§ 152.008 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Subdivision Committee, subject to approval of the Council, is the
official body responsible for the processing and administering of subdivision
plats. Any owner of land wishing to subdivide shall submit a preliminary and
final plat according to the procedures outlined in these regulations to the
town office for processing. The Council member on the Subdivision Committee
shall be the authorized representative of the Committee, representing that body
and acting on its behalf in administrative and processing matters relevant to
subdivisions and other land use matters under Council jurisdiction.
(1974 Code, § 14-2-5)
§ 152.009 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A passage or way, dedicated to public use, affording generally a
secondary means of vehicular access to abutting lots and not intended for
general traffic circulation.
   BLOCK. A parcel of land bounded by streets, waterways or unsubdivided
acreage or a combination thereof.
   DESIGN. Street alignment, grades and widths, structural design, alignment
and widths of easements and rights-of-way for utilities, drainage and sanitary
sewers and the arrangement and orientation of blocks and lots.
   IMPROVEMENT. Required installations, pursuant to this chapter, including
grading, sewer and water utilities, streets, easements and traffic control
devices as a condition to the approval and acceptance of the final plat
thereof.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision intended to be transferred or developed as a
single unit.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot with street frontage along two opposing
boundaries.
   LOT, KEY. The first lot to the rear of a corner lot, the front line of which
is an approximate continuation of the side line of the corner lot.
   LOT, REVERSE FRONTAGE. A double frontage lot for which the boundary along
one of the streets is established as the lot front and the boundary along the
other street is established as the lot rear, and over the rear of which is an
easement as provided in §
152.072. The rear of the lot shall be that side abutting a traffic artery or
other disadvantageous use.
   PLAT. A map of a subdivision.
      (1)   FINAL PLAT. A map of all or part of a subdivision essentially
conforming to an approved preliminary plat, prepared in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, those of any applicable local ordinance and other
state statutes.
      (2)   PRELIMINARY PLAT. A preliminary map, including supporting data,
indicating a proposed subdivision design prepared in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and those of any local applicable ordinance.
      (3)   RECORDED PLAT. A final plat bearing all of the certificates of
approval required by this chapter, any applicable local ordinance and other
state statutes.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any public or private right-of-way and includes any area
required for public use pursuant to any general or specific plan.
   STREET. Any existing or proposed street, avenue, boulevard, road, lane,
parkway, place, bridge, viaduct or easement for public vehicular access or a
street shown in a plat heretofore approved pursuant to law or a street in a
plat duly filed and recorded in the County Recorder’s office. A STREET includes
all land within the street right-of-way whether improved or unimproved, and
includes such improvements as pavement, shoulders, curbs, gutters, sidewalks,
parking space, bridges and viaducts.
   STREET LOOP. A minor street of limited length which generally follows a “U”
alignment with both legs intercepting the same street.
   STREET, MAJOR. A street which primarily serves to provide access along or
through a subdivision or unsubdivided area for the purpose of accommodating the
general traffic circulation of the community.
   STREET, MINOR. A street, usually of limited continuity, which primarily
serves to provide the principal means of access to abutting properties only.
   SUBDIVIDER. A person, firm, corporation, partnership, association,
syndicate, trust or other legal entity that undertakes the subdivision,
division or resubdivision of a lot, block or other parcel of land.
   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   Improved or unimproved land or lands divided for the purpose of
financing, sale or lease, whether immediate or future, into four or more lots,
tracts or parcels of land, or, if a new street is involved, any property which
is divided into two or more lots, tracts or parcels of land, or any property,
the boundaries of which have been fixed by a recorded plat, which is divided
into more than two parts. SUBDIVISION also includes any condominium,
cooperative, community apartment, townhouse or similar project containing four
or more parcels, in which an undivided interest in the land is coupled with the
right of exclusive occupancy of any unit located thereon, but plats of the
projects need not show the buildings or the manner in which the building or
airspace above the property shown on the plat are to be divided.
      (2)   SUBDIVISION does not include the following:
         (a)   The sale or exchange of parcels of land to or between adjoining
property owners if the sale or exchange does not create additional lots;
         (b)   The partitioning of land in accordance with other statutes
regulating the partitioning of land held in common ownership; or
         (c)   The leasing of apartments, offices, stores or similar space
within a building or trailer park, nor to mineral, oil or gas leases.
   TOWN GENERAL PLAN. The comprehensive plan of the town as adopted by the
Council with any amendments or revisions.
(1974 Code, § 14-2-6)
PRELIMINARY PLAT
§ 152.020 PRE-APPLICATION.
   (A)   To avoid unnecessary costly delays and map revisions, the subdivider
is required to consult early and informally with the Public Works Director,
public health authority and all utility companies for advice and assistance
prior to preparation of the preliminary plat.
   (B)   When a proposed subdivision involves the development of large tracts
of land, as in the case of a planned community, the subdivider is encouraged to
submit an overall development master plan of the total development, Council and
staff review, before preparing and filing a preliminary plat.
(1974 Code, § 14-3-1)
§ 152.021 FILING PROCEDURE, FEE AND DISTRIBUTION.
   (A)   The preliminary plat shall be prepared in accordance with the
provisions of these regulations and shall be filed with the Clerk, prior to the
initiation of any construction work within the proposed subdivision.
   (B)   The subdivider shall file with the Council or its designee five copies
of the preliminary plat and additional copies as the Council may require.
   (C)   At the time of filing a preliminary plat, the subdivider shall pay to
the Clerk a fee as set by resolution of the Council to partially defray the
expenses incidental to the processing of the plat.
   (D)   The Director of Public Works shall examine the preliminary plat upon
filing and shall not accept the plat unless the preliminary plat is in full
compliance with the provisions of these regulations as to form and as to the
information required to be shown thereon and in the statement required to be
furnished therewith.
   (E)   Upon receipt and acceptance of the preliminary plat, accompanying
materials and filing fees, the Public Works Director shall transmit copies of
the plat and accompanying materials to utility companies and any other agency
affected by the subdivisions.
   (F)   The preliminary plat shall be given to the Subdivision Committee with
staff recommendations on the proposed subdivision development. A maximum of 20
working days shall be allowed to permit town departments and other agencies to
complete their investigation and report their recommendations before submission
to the Subdivision Committee. Failure to report within the time specified shall
be deemed approval.
   (G)   When all staff and other reports have been received, the Subdivision
Committee shall check the plat for conformance with proper design requirements,
as required by law, prepare a report incorporating the reports and/or comments
from all town departments and other agencies concerned and if the proposed plat
is reasonably in conformance, set the matter of hearing before the Council at
its next regular meeting. If circumstances warrant it, the Council may set a
special meeting.
(1974 Code, § 14-3-2)
§ 152.022 FORM OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   Every preliminary plat filed with the Council shall be clearly and legibly
drawn. The size of the sheet shall be 24 inches by 36 inches long. The scale of
the map shall be one inch equals 200 feet or larger.
(1974 Code, § 14-3-3)
§ 152.023 PLAT CONTENTS.
   A preliminary plat shall contain the following information and data:
   (A)   Name, tract number and legal description of property;
   (B)   Name and address of record owner of property and of subdivider, if the
owner is not the subdivider;
   (C)   Name and address of person preparing map;
   (D)   Date of preparation, north point and scale;
   (E)   Total subdivision acreage and overall dimensions;
   (F)   Boundary lines and vicinity map;
   (G)   Names of adjacent subdivisions and owner of adjoining parcels of
unsubdivided lands;
   (H)   Names, locations and widths of adjacent streets, roads, highways or
ways;
   (I)   The location, names, area, width, proposed grade and curve radii of
all roads, streets, highways and ways in the proposed new subdivision;
   (J)   Streets and rights-of-way providing legal access to the property;
   (K)   Accurate contour lines drawn to intervals of one foot to five feet
depending on topography. Copies of U.S.G.S. maps are not acceptable;
   (L)   The width and approximate locations of all existing or proposed
easements or rights-of-way, whether public or private for alleys, roads,
drainage, sewers, public utilities, flood control purposes or other community
facilities;
   (M)   Lot lines, dimensions and lot numbers;
   (N)   Locations and approximate dimensions of proposed public areas;
   (O)   Locations and elevations of sewers at proposed main connections,
culverts and storm drains;
   (P)   Land subject to overflow, inundation or flood hazard, including
watercourses and channels. A preliminary drainage plan including provisions for
the disposal of storm water;
   (Q)   Location of structures, irrigation ditches, pipelines, wells,
reservoirs and other physical features. Any existing features which are to
remain shall be noted;
   (R)   Existing use of property immediately surrounding the tract;
   (S)   The area and proposed use of all lots or parcels within the
subdivision. If a condominium, the common areas;
   (T)   Source of all utilities to service the tract, including the method of
sewage and garbage disposal;
   (U)   Existing zoning, proposed zoning and minimum lot sizes;
   (V)   Names of all utility companies;
   (W)   Typical section of proposed roadway to indicate thickness and type of
surfacing, thickness of base courses as determined by soil analysis. Design
shall be by a qualified soils and testing consultant; and
   (X)   If a condominium, show a horizontal regime with space dimensions.
(1974 Code, § 14-3-4) (Ord. 12-005, passed 8-8-2012)
§ 152.024 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION.
   Reports, plans and written statements on the following matters shall
accompany the preliminary plat when required by the Council or its designee:
   (A)   Subdivision development plan (general plan);
   (B)   Type of street improvements;
   (C)   Protective covenants to be recorded, if any. If a condominium, the
conditions, covenants and restrictions together with by-laws;
   (D)   The relative proportions of the total area of the subdivision proposed
to be devoted to each use classification as a percentage of the total area;
   (E)   Other improvements proposed to be made or installed; and
   (F)   Justification and reasons for any exceptions to the provisions of
these regulations.
(1974 Code, § 14-3-5)
§ 152.025 REVISED PLATS.
   (A)   The approval or conditional approval by the Council of any revised
preliminary plat shall annul all previous approvals thereof, but shall not be
construed as extending the time within which the final plat shall be filed.
   (B)   Any revised preliminary plat shall comply with the requirements in
effect at the time the revised plat is considered. The revised plat shall show
all of the information as required in §§
152.022 through
152.024 insofar as any changes that may have been made on the plat.
(1974 Code, § 14-3-6)
§ 152.026 DIVISION INTO UNITS.
   (A)   Areas of the preliminary plat proposed for partial recording shall be
outlined and described by unit numbers.
   (B)   All final plats made from a portion of an approved preliminary plat
shall receive a new tract number.
   (C)   The preliminary plat tract number shall not be used for any final plat
which does not occupy the exact same area as defined on the approved
preliminary plat.
(1974 Code, § 14-3-7)
§ 152.027 EXPIRATION OF APPROVAL; EXTENSION OF TIME.
   The approval of a preliminary plat shall expire after 12 months from the
date approved by the Council, unless within that period a final plat shall have
been filed with the Clerk or, unless on timely written application from the
subdivider, the Council shall have extended the period. An extension not
exceeding two years may be granted by the Council if the subdivider is actively
processing the final plat. The total time period, including extensions, shall
not exceed three and one-half years.
(1974 Code, § 14-3-8)
§ 152.028 REFILING FOLLOWING DISAPPROVAL.
   In the event that a preliminary plat is disapproved by the Council, a
similar preliminary plat of the same area or portion thereof may not be refiled
for at least six months from the date of disapproval by the Council. In the
event a new plat is refiled, all fees shall be paid.
(1974 Code, § 14-3-9)
§ 152.029 SUBDIVISION COMMITTEE REVIEW AND ACTION.
   The Subdivision Committee shall determine whether the preliminary plat is in
conformity with the provisions of law and of these regulations. Upon that
basis, the Committee shall, within 30 days after the filing of the preliminary
plat, unless the time shall have been extended by mutual agreement with the
subdivider, by resolution, recommend approval, conditional approval or
disapproval of the proposed subdivision. A report setting out the action of the
Committee shall be transmitted to the subdivider and to the Council.
(1974 Code, § 14-3-10)
§ 152.030 COUNCIL REVIEW AND ACTION.
   The Council, upon receipt of the Committee report, shall set the matter on
the agenda of its next regular meeting. At that time, the Council may accept
the Committee’s recommendation, overturn the Committee action, refer the matter
back to the Committee when additional information is needed or requirements are
not fulfilled or may set the matter for public hearing.
(1974 Code, § 14-3-11)
§ 152.031 PUBLIC HEARING.
   The Subdivision Committee and/or the Council may set the matter for a public
hearing and, if the action is taken, a legal notice shall be posted on the
subject property and published once in a newspaper of general circulation in
the town at least 15 days before the public hearing.
(1974 Code, § 14-3-12)
FINAL PLAT
§ 152.045 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Within 12 months after conditional approval of the preliminary plat by
the Council, the subdivider shall cause the subdivision or any part thereof to
be surveyed and a final plat to be prepared in conformity with the preliminary
plat as approved.
   (B)   Failure to record a final plat within the 12-month time period, or
date of any time extension thereof which may be granted by the Council, shall
terminate all proceedings and the plat and all accompanying materials shall be
null and void:
      (1)   The subdivider shall file with the Clerk five complete sets of
black and white or blue-line prints of the check map and all accompanying
material to be checked prior to filing a final plat with the Council for final
approval. The Clerk shall transmit prints of the check map and all accompanying
material to the following departments and agencies for checking: Public Works
Director, Town Attorney, County Health Authority and others as deemed
necessary;
      (2)   Two copies of the protective covenants to be recorded, if any,
applicable to the subdivision shall be filed with the Clerk at the time of
filing the check map. The instruments shall be checked as to conformity with
the intent and purpose of the development, and existing and proposed zoning
requirements by the Town Attorney, Public Works Director and Clerk prior to
recordation of the final plat;
      (3)   Statement from the Clerk verifying payment of taxes; and
      (4)   Title report reflecting current ownership interests.
(1974 Code, § 14-4-1)
§ 152.046 FEES.
   (A)   At the time of submitting the final plat or improvement plans to the
Public Works Director for checking, the subdivider shall have paid to the Clerk
a fee established by resolution of the Council to cover the costs of filing and
map checking as provided in §
152.021.
   (B)   At the time of recordation of the final plat, the subdivider shall pay
the Clerk an additional fee established by the Public Works Director as
approved by Council to cover inspection and other costs to be incurred by the
town in verifying the existence and quality of required improvements.
(1974 Code, § 14-4-2)
§ 152.047 FORM OF FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   (1)   The final plat shall be legibly drawn, printed or reproduced by
a process guaranteeing a permanent record in black ink on tracing cloth or
polyester base film that when filed, good legible blue line prints and
negatives can be made therefrom.
      (2)   Certificates, affidavits and acknowledgments shall be legibly
stamped or printed upon the plat with black opaque ink.
      (3)   All signatures shall be signed in black waterproof India ink, with
the ink surface coated with a suitable substance when used on polyester based
film to assure permanent legibility.
   (B)   The size of each sheet shall be 24 inches wide by 36 inches long and
shall include all affidavits, certificates and acknowledgments.
   (C)   The scale of the map shall be one inch equals 200 feet or larger.
   (D)   The exterior boundary of the subdivision shall be indicated by a black
border.
   (E)   Each sheet shall be numbered, the relation of one sheet to another
clearly shown and the total number of sheets used shall be set forth on each
sheet.
   (F)   The tract number, scale and north point shall be shown on each sheet.
(1974 Code, § 14-4-3)
§ 152.048 TITLE SHEET.
   (A)   The tract number and tract name shall comprise the title.
   (B)   Below the title shall be a subtitle consisting of a general
description of all the property being subdivided, by reference to subdivisions
or to sectional surveys.
   (C)   References to subdivisions shall be worded identically with original
records, with references to the books and pages of the subdivision.
   (D)   Affidavits, certificates, acknowledgments, endorsements, acceptances
of dedication and notarial seals required by law and by these regulations shall
appear on the title.
   (E)   The title sheet shall show the basis of bearings.
   (F)   A vicinity map showing the proposed subdivision and surrounding
subdivisions and streets located within a one-quarter mile radius of the
boundaries of the proposed subdivision shall appear on the title sheet.
   (G)   Where the size of a subdivision permits, in lieu of a title sheet, the
information prescribed in this section may be shown on the same sheet as the
final plat.
(1974 Code, § 14-4-4)
§ 152.049 INFORMATION ON FINAL PLAT.
   The final plat shall show the following:
   (A)   The tract number and tract name, date of preparation, north point and
scale;
   (B)   The locations and names of streets; the center lines thereof; the
lengths, tangents, radii and central angles and radial bearings of curves; the
total widths of each street and the width on each side of the center line, the
width of the street being dedicated and the width of existing dedications, if
any;
   (C)   The locations and widths of pedestrian ways;
   (D)   The locations and dimensions of public areas and the net acreage, to
the nearest one-hundredth of an acre, contained therein;
   (E)   The center lines, widths and side lines of all easements to which the
lots are subject, the date on which the easement was created, and the book and
page number of the County Recorder’s records in which the easement appears. If
the easement is not definitely located on record, a statement as to the
easement shall appear on the title sheet. Easements for storm drains, sewers
and other similar purposes shall be denoted by broken lines. Easements shall be
clearly labeled and identified and if already on record, precise reference to
the records given. Easements being dedicated shall be so indicated in the
certificate of dedication;
   (F)   Locations and widths of drainage channels;
   (G)   Locations and widths of utilities rights-of-way;
   (H)   Limitations on rights of access to and from streets and lots and other
parcels of land;
   (I)   Locations and widths of reserve strips;
   (J)   Locations, widths and names of streets, and pedestrian ways adjacent
to the proposed subdivision;
   (K)   Locations of boundary lines;
   (L)   The net dimensions of each lot. Sufficient data shall be shown to
determine readily the bearing and length of each lot line. On lots containing
an acre or more, the final plat shall show net acreage to the nearest one-
hundredth of an acre;
   (M)   All lots numbered consecutively, commencing with the number “1" with
no omissions or duplications;
   (N)   All dimensions in feet and decimals of a foot, to the nearest one-
hundredth; and
   (O)   The following surveying data:
      (1)   The radius, tangent, arc, length and central angle of curves;
      (2)   Suitable primary survey control points including section corners
and monuments existing outside of the proposed subdivision;
      (3)   The location of all permanent monuments within the proposed
subdivision;
      (4)   Ties to and names of adjacent subdivisions; and
      (5)   Ties to any town and county boundary lines involved.
(1974 Code, § 14-4-5) (Ord. 12-005, passed 8-8-2012)
§ 152.050 MONUMENTS.
   (A)   All monuments shall be marked or tagged according to the type and at
locations as required and approved by the Public Works Director.
   (B)   The final plat shall show clearly all stakes, monuments or other
evidence found on the ground which were used as ties to determine the
boundaries of the tract. The corners of adjoining subdivisions or portions
thereof shall be identified and ties shown.
   (C)   (1)   In making the survey for the subdivision, the surveyor shall set
sufficient, permanent monuments so that the survey or any part thereof may be
readily retraced.
      (2)   The monuments shall generally be placed at the angle points and at
curve tangent points on the exterior boundary lines of the tract, at the
intersection of center lines of streets, at the beginnings and ends of curves
on the center lines of streets and at all lot corners.
      (3)   The size, type and depth of monuments shall be in accord with town
standards.
      (4)   The character, type and position of all monuments shall be noted on
the final plat.
   (D)   Monuments shall be subject to inspection by the Building Inspector or
Public Works Director.
   (E)   All lot corners shall be set prior to approval of the final plat.
(1974 Code, § 14-4-6)
§ 152.051 SURVEY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A complete and accurate survey of the land to be subdivided shall be
made by a civil engineer or land surveyor registered or licensed to practice in
the state, in accordance with standard practices and principles of land
surveying.
   (B)   The field traverse of the exterior boundaries of a proposed
subdivision and each block and lot shall close with a limit of error of one
foot to 10,500 feet of perimeter.
(1974 Code, § 14-4-7)
§ 152.052 CERTIFICATES ON FINAL PLAT.
   The following certificates and acknowledgments, and all others now or
hereafter required by law shall appear on the final plat. The certificates may
be combined when appropriate:
   (A)   A certificate signed and acknowledged by all parties having any record
of title or interest in the land subdivided, consenting to the preparation and
recordation of the plat;
   (B)   A certificate signed and acknowledged by all parties having any record
title or interest in the land subdivided, offering for dedication all parcels
of land, streets, pedestrian ways, drainage channels, easements and other
rights-of-way intended for public use;
   (C)   A certificate signed and acknowledged by all parties having any record
title or interest in the land subdivided, offering for dedication rights of
access to and from prescribed streets, lots and parcels of land;
   (D)   A certificate of the registered civil engineer or licensed surveyor
who prepared the survey and final plat, including seal and signature;
   (E)   A certificate for execution by the Public Works Director in behalf of
the Subdivision Committee;
   (F)   A certificate for execution by the Mayor and Clerk;
   (G)   A certificate for execution by the County Health Authority; and
   (H)   A certificate for execution by the Town Attorney.
(1974 Code, § 14-4-8)
§ 152.053 DRAINAGE PLAN.
   Construction plans showing water, sewer, street grades, underground
utilities, curbs, gutters, catch basins, storm sewers, drainage channels,
natural drainage ways and other drainage works in sufficient detail to
determine the adequacy of provisions for drainage and the disposal of surface
and storm water from the subdivision shall be approved by the Building
Inspector prior to approval of the final plat.
(1974 Code, § 14-4-9)
§ 152.054 DEDICATIONS.
   (A)   All parcels of land shown on the final plat as intended for public use
shall be offered for dedication for public use at the time the map is filed,
except those parcels which are intended for the exclusive use of lot owners
within the subdivision, their licensees, visitors, tenants and servants. If a
condominium, this shall include common and limited common areas.
   (B)   All streets, pedestrian ways, drainage channels, sewer, water and
utility easements, and other rights-of-way shown on the final plat as intended
for public use shall be offered for dedication at the time the final plat is
filed.
   (C)   All rights of access to and from streets, lots and parcels of land
shown on the final plat intended to be surrendered shall be offered for
dedication at the time the final plat is filed.
   (D)   An offer to dedication, from a subdivider or other individual to the
town for a street, pedestrian way, drainage channels, easements and other
rights-of-way shown on the final plat shall be considered accepted upon
signature and appraisal of the plat by the Clerk and Mayor.
   (E)   The Subdivision Committee and Council may require dedications for
street openings or widening, or easement, on-site physical improvements and
design requirements as are consistent with those prescribed for subdivisions
under the provisions of these regulations.
(1974 Code, § 14-4-10)
§ 152.055 IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   A pre-construction conference shall be held with the Public Works
Director prior to the start of any construction. Weekly progress reports shall
be submitted by the developer, or his or her designated representative, to the
Public Works Director.
   (B)   The subdivider shall prepare and submit engineering plans and
specifications for the installation of required street, sewer, electric and
water utilities, drainage, flood control, adequacy of water and improvements to
the Public Works Director prior to commencing construction of improvements.
   (C)   The subdivider shall improve to town standards all land dedicated for
streets, pedestrian ways, drainage channels, easements and other rights-of-way
as a condition precedent to acceptance thereof and approval of the final plat
by the Council. For these developments wherein the subdivider plans to
construct dwelling units and/or otherwise physically improve the land by
providing utilities and other facilities prior to sales, the Council may permit
the builder/developer to deposit with the Clerk a cashier’s check or make other
approved financial arrangements for the amount required to install any
underground utilities and physically improve the street system proposed, when
the Council determines that construction of the street system, prior to
recordation of the final map, would be an unnecessary hardship. The improvement
moneys deposited with the Clerk shall be in the amount established by the
Public Works Director, and when applicable shall be deposited in an appropriate
account for the purpose of obtaining for the town the best interest possible on
the moneys.
   (D)   Improvements shall conform with specifications of design and materials
and installed to grades as approved and prescribed by the Public Works
Director.
   (E)   The Public Works Director shall have the right to enter upon the sites
of improvements for the purpose of inspecting them and shall be furnished with
soil and material tests by a competent laboratory as may be required to
determine the acceptability of the materials.
   (F)   Upon completion of the required improvements by the subdivider, the
Public Works Director shall make a final inspection of the subdivision. If it
is found, upon inspection, that all improvements have been installed in
accordance with approved plans and specifications, the Public Works Director
shall transmit a letter indicating the findings to the Council and the
Subdivision Committee. This shall be prior to approval of the final plat,
unless a bond or cash deposit is provided in accordance with §§
152.058 or
152.070 through
152.078.
(1974 Code, § 14-4-11)
§ 152.056 PROCEDURE FOR FINAL APPROVAL AND RECORDATION.
   (A)   The Public Works Director shall examine the print of the final plat
and determine the sufficiency of affidavits and acknowledgments, the
correctness of surveying data, mathematical data and computations, and with the
Town Attorney shall determine whether the provisions of the state law and these
regulations have been complied with. If the final plat is found to be correct,
the matters shown thereon are sufficient and all applicable provisions of the
state law and these regulations have been complied with, the Public Works
Director shall certify approval on the original tracing of the plat and forward
the plat and applicable accompanying material to the Council.
   (B)   If the final plat and all accompanying data agreements, and other
documents conform to the preliminary plat as approved by the Subdivision
Committee and Council and no changes have been made which have not been
approved by the Council, the Public Works Director shall certify the original
tracing of the final plat on behalf of the Subdivision Committee.
   (C)   When the final plat has been approved and signed by the Public Works
Director, Secretary of the Subdivision Committee, engineer or surveyor who
prepared the final plat, and all other parties required to execute certificates
thereon, and when all appropriate provisions of the state laws and these
regulations have been met and all of the specified accompanying material has
been submitted to the Council, the plat and accompanying material shall be
filed with the Clerk for action by Council.
(1974 Code, § 14-4-12)
§ 152.057 COUNCIL ACTION.
   (A)   At the next regular meeting following the filing of the plat with the
Clerk, the Council shall consider the plat, the plan of subdivision and the
offers of dedication in accordance with the requirements of these regulations.
The Council may reject any or all offers of dedication. If the Council
determines that the plat is in conformity with the requirements of the law and
the provisions of these regulations it shall approve the plat and the Mayor and
the Clerk shall so certify this action upon the tracing of the final plat. If
the Council shall determine that the plat is not in conformity with the
requirements of these regulations or the preliminary plat, it shall disapprove
the plat specifying its reason or reasons therefor, and the Clerk shall, in
writing, advise the subdivider of the disapproval. Within 30 days after the
Council has disapproved any final plat, the subdivider may file with the Clerk
supplementary material, altered plat or plat to meet the requirements of the
Council. If no action is taken or supplementary material is inadequate then the
rejection of the final plat by the Council stands, and the subdivider shall
conform to all previous requirements imposed upon him or her by these
regulations as when filing the first final plat with the Public Works Director
if he or she wishes to continue processing the plat. No plat shall have any
force or effect until same has been approved by the Council, and no title to
any property described in any offer of dedication shall pass until the
recordation of the final plat.
   (B)   When the final plat is approved by the Council, the Clerk shall
present the final plat to the subdivider or his or her representative to
thereafter record same with the County Recorder.
(1974 Code, § 14-4-13)
§ 152.058 AGREEMENTS AND PERFORMANCE.
   (A)   All street and parcels of land, shown on the final plat or described
in deeds or other conveyances, intended for public use shall be offered for
dedication by the developer and shall either be accepted by approval and
signature on the plat or rejected by the Council by a separate instrument.
   (B)   All off-site improvements and construction shall be completed before
the final plat is approved by the Council, unless a cash deposit or other
financial arrangements have been made between the subdivider and the Council.
In the event the subdivider fails to perform within the time period allotted by
the Council, then after reasonable notice to the subdivider of default, the
town may do or have done all work and charge the subdivider’s deposit with all
costs and expenses incurred.
   (C)   No progress payment for work completed shall be made, except upon
certification by the Public Works Director for the release of cash deposits, or
that the work covered thereby has been satisfactorily completed. When the work
is done in units, no progress payment shall be made for more than 75% of the
value of any installment of work until the entire project has been completed
and approved by the Public Works Director.
   (D)   The subdivider shall furnish the Council with one reproducible copy of
the final plat with all signatures, printed on polyester-based film or linen.
   (E)   AS BUILT means any deviations in location of the actual installation
of improvements from those shown on the final plat and shall be corrected on
the plat by the subdivider prior to recordation. In the event that all
improvements are not installed prior to recordation of the final plat, an
amended copy of the final plat showing actual location of improvements as built
shall be furnished by the town and recorded when the improvements are
completed.
(1974 Code, § 14-4-14)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 152.070 STREETS.
   (A)   Conformity with master plan. Alignment of major streets shall conform
as nearly as possible with that shown on the master plan of the town to be
adopted by the Council.
   (B)   Relation to adjoining street system. The layout of streets shall
provide for the continuation of principal streets existing in adjoining
subdivisions, or of their proper projection when adjoining property is not
subdivided. It shall provide also for future projection of streets into areas
which presently are not subdivided.
   (C)   Minor streets. Minor streets which primarily serve to provide access
to abutting properties only, shall be designed to discourage through traffic.
   (D)   Dead-end streets. Streets designed to have one end permanently closed
(cul-de-sac) shall be no longer than 400 feet and shall be provided at the
closed end with a turn-around having a minimum right-of-way radius of not less
than 56 feet or with a “Y” or “T” permitting comparable ease of turning.
   (E)   Half streets. A street lying along the boundary of a subdivision may
be dedicated one-half the required width if it is practical to require the
dedication of the other half when the adjoining property is subdivided; and,
wherever there exists a dedicated half-street of an adjoining plat, the half
shall be dedicated on the proposed plat to make the street complete.
   (F)   Street alignment. Connecting street center lines deflecting from each
other at any one point more than ten degrees shall be connected by a curve of
at least 100 feet radius for minor streets and at least 300 feet radius
arterial streets. A tangent at least 100 feet long shall be introduced between
curves on arterial streets.
   (G)   Jogs at street intersections. Street jogs with center line off-sets of
less than 125 feet shall be avoided.
   (H)   Street grades. Streets shall conform closely to the natural contour of
the land, except where a differing grade has been established by the local
governmental authorities or the agency furnishing municipal services to the
town. Grades shall be not less than 0.50% for any street and not more than 6%
for major streets or 10% for minor streets. Changes in grade shall be connected
by easy vertical curves.
   (I)   Street widths. Street right-of-way shall not be less than as follows:
      (1)   Major and minor streets: 66 feet; and
      (2)   Short loop or cul-de-sac streets: 66 feet.
   (J)   Street names.
      (1)   Streets that are obviously in alignment with others already
existing and named shall bear the names of the existing streets. Other streets
shall not bear names that duplicate or phonetically approximate the names of
existing streets.
      (2)   A street with a general north-south alignment shall be designated
“Avenue”, one with a general east-west alignment shall be designated “Street”.
A cul-de-sac street shall be designated “Court”. The designation “Way” shall be
reserved for long, continuous streets with major thoroughfare characteristics.
The designation “Boulevard” shall be reserved for long, continuous streets
characterized by a broad right-of-way, tree and turn embellishment, and
predominantly non-commercial traffic. Insofar as possible, new streets shall
preserve and continue any alphabetical sequence and type of names already
established in nearby subdivisions.
(1974 Code, § 14-5-1)
§ 152.071 ALLEYS.
   (A)   Required alleys. Alleys shall be provided at the rear of all lots
intended for business or industrial uses, only where assured provision cannot
be made for service access, such as off-street loading, unloading and parking
consistent with and adequate for the uses proposed. Ordinarily, alleys in
residential areas will not be acceptable.
   (B)   Dead-end alleys. Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible; but
if unavoidable, shall be provided with adequate turn-around facilities at the
dead-end.
(1974 Code, § 14-5-2)
§ 152.072 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Public utilities. Where alleys are not provided, easements for public
utilities shall be provided on each side of all rear-lot lines, and side-lot
lines, where necessary, and be not less than ten feet wide for the half-width
that is reserved from the rear of each of the pair of adjacent lots. Insofar as
possible, the easements shall be continuous and aligned from block to block
within the subdivision and with adjoining subdivisions. Easements for existing
or future utility lines which do not lie along rear or side-lot lines shall be
at least 20 feet wide.
   (B)   Unusual facilities. Easements for unusual facilities, such as high
voltage electric lines, shall be of a width as is adequate to the purpose,
including any necessary maintenance roads.
   (C)   Watercourses. Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse,
drainage way, channel or stream, there shall be provided a storm water easement
or drainage right-of-way conforming substantially with the lines of the
watercourse, and the further width or construction, or both, as will be
adequate for the purpose.
(1974 Code, § 14-5-3)
§ 152.073 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Block length. In general, blocks shall be as long as is reasonably
possible, consistent with topography and the needs for convenient access,
circulation, control and safety or street traffic and type of land use
proposed. However, ordinarily, block lengths shall not exceed 1,500 feet or be
less than 400 feet. Regular street blocks in the town are 600 feet square.
   (B)   Block width. Except for reversed frontage parcels, the width of blocks
shall ordinarily be sufficient to allow for two tiers of lots of depths
consistent with the type of land use proposed, normally not less than 200 feet
for the sum of the two-lot depths.
   (C)   Crosswalks. A pedestrian crosswalk right-of-way, not less than ten
feet wide, shall be provided approximately at the midpoint in any block
exceeding 1,000 feet in length, or in a block of lesser circulation, or access
to schools, playground, shopping centers, transportation lines and other town
facilities.
(1974 Code, § 14-5-4)
§ 152.074 LOTS.
   (A)   Lot access. Each lot shall be provided with satisfactory access by
means of a public street connecting to an existing public highway or by some
other legally sufficient right of access which is permanent and inseparable
from the lot served.
   (B)   Lot size. Lot widths and areas shall conform with the zone
restrictions applicable to the area within which the property is located;
except that, corner lots for which side yards are required shall have extra
width to permit appropriate setback from and orientation to both streets. Lot
depths shall be suitable for the land use proposed.
   (C)   Lot shape. Lots shall be as nearly rectangular as possible with side
lines approximately at right angles or radial to street lines. Ordinarily, the
ratio of width to depth shall be one to not more than two and one-quarter.
(1974 Code, § 14-5-5)
§ 152.075 PUBLIC OPEN SPACES.
   (A)   Conformity with general plan. Provision for parks, playgrounds and
similar public open spaces shall conform as nearly as possible with that shown
in the general plan of the town.
   (B)   Requirements. Each subdivider shall make provision for public open
spaces by donation or reservation of land or by payments, or by a combination
of these three methods (unless expressly waived by the Council) according to
the following formula.
      (1)   If any of the spaces are located within a given subdivision and
constitute less than 5% of the total area of lots in that subdivision (not
including any lots platted in the areas designated as public open spaces), the
subdivider shall donate the spaces to an appropriate political subdivision of
the state (such as the town) if one demands the donation before or within three
years after the filing of the plat, the portion to be of a shape and location
as is approved by the town.
      (2)   If none of the spaces are located with a given subdivision, the
subdivider shall pay, upon demand, to an appropriate political subdivision of
the state the sum of $50 per lot to be used only for the purchase and/or
development of public open spaces.
(1974 Code, § 14-5-6)
§ 152.076 WATER, SEWER AND OTHER UNDERGROUND UTILITIES.
   (A)   Underground utilities in streets and easement.
      (1)   All utilities shall be underground in streets and easements. All
water and sewer mains are to be located in the paved roadway section far enough
from the curb and gutter to allow backhoe access for maintenance without
disturbing existing curb and gutter; a minimum of four feet from lip of curb.
Utilities other than water and sewer, such as cable television, power,
telephone, fiber optics or natural gas, may be permitted behind curbs or
sidewalks or between sidewalks and curbs.
      (2)   Utilities within easements must be located to minimize interference
with one another, provide required horizontal and vertical separations and
provide maintenance accessability without violating easement boundaries.
   (B)   Water and sewer depths and separations. Water lines are to have
minimum cover of 36 inches over the top of the barrel and sewer lines are to
have a minimum cover of 48 inches over the top of the barrel (or septic tank).
In all cases, sewer lines are to be at a depth sufficient to provide gravity
service to all adjacent building pads. Service lines are to be laid at grades
and depths prescribed by
Ch. 52 of this code of ordinances. Vertical and horizontal separations of water
and sewer shall conform to the requirements set forth in A.R.S. § 36.
   (C)   Pipe crossing of existing pavement. Crossing of federal, state or
county highways will be in accordance with specific requirements of the
controlling agency.
(1974 Code, § 14-5-7)
§ 152.077 WATER SYSTEM DESIGN.
   (A)   Guide for design. The design of the water system must be consistent
with the town’s water system.
   (B)   Extension and network design.
      (1)   Any extension of a water line or network of water lines shall be
designed to provide for required fire flows and consumptive flows
simultaneously with no residual pressures in the system dropping below 20 psi.
If future extension of a proposed system will increase the possibility of
residual pressures dropping below 20 psi, system analysis shall include
anticipated future expansion.
      (2)   Required water pipe size will be determined by a network analysis,
but in no case will public lines smaller than six inches in diameter be
permitted. All systems are required to be looped where practical to provide
more than one feed point to a network.
   (C)   Design water consumption rates. The average annual daily rate of
consumption for design purposes is to be 165 gpcd in residential areas. For
purposes of computing peak hourly rates of flow, a peak factor of 300% is
assumed (i.e., 495 gpcd).
   (D)   Fire flow requirements and fire hydrants. All fire hydrants shall be
capable of delivering at a minimum rate of 800 gpm.
   (E)   Maximum spacing of hydrants in residential districts is 600 feet. All
fire hydrants, when installed, shall have a clear level working area extending
not less than three feet around the hydrants. Banks may be excavated to obtain
the clearance, but a masonry retaining wall, with footing, shall be constructed
where excavated bank exceeds two feet in height. Consideration is to be given
to fire truck access and hose laying techniques in the spacing of hydrants.
Fire Department approval of fire hydrant location and construction is required
prior to final acceptance.
   (F)   Valve location.
      (1)   Valves shall be located in the network so that no single accident,
breakage or repair to the system will necessitate the removal from service of a
length of pipe greater than 500 feet in high value districts and 800 feet in
residential districts. Valves are to be located so that no closure of a valve
on an “artery” line is required unless there is breakage on the”artery” itself.
      (2)   Every fire hydrant is to have a valve on the lead line. Blow off
valves are required at the ends of dead-end lines, whether temporary or
permanent.
   (G)   Town participation in utility extensions.
      (1)   In the event that an area to be serviced by a developer is lesser
in size than the maximum area to be serviced by the proposed main sewer or
water line and its laterals, the main shall be designed, engineered and
constructed to serve the maximum area described. The town reserves the right to
increase the diameter of any sewer or water extensions, if it deems it
advisable, in conforming with the town general plan. If future extensions of a
proposed water line will increase the possibility of residual pressures
dropping below 20 psi, the town may request the line size be increased. The
town will participate by paying the difference in construction costs between
the line size required to serve the development and that size deemed necessary
by the town to serve all future expansion.
      (2)   After the developer has submitted a cost breakdown to the Public
Works Director, the construction cost of the oversize shall be determined and
agreed upon by the Council prior to commencement of construction. Costs of
lateral and branch lines and their appurtenances will not be included in the
agreed construction cost. Differences between water valve costs may be included
in the construction costs; however, fire hydrants will not be included. The
Council reserves the right to reject the developer’s cost breakdown if it is
inconsistent with current costs of equivalent construction in the town.
   (H)   Recapture agreement.
      (1)   If a property owner or developer extends a water or sewer main
across undeveloped property to reach his or her development or property, and
wishes to be reimbursed for the cost of installing the extension by future
customers, he or she may request a recapture agreement be drawn up by the town.
The request for a recapture agreement must be in writing to the Clerk for
presentation to the Council, who will grant or deny the request.
      (2)   If the Council grants the request, after the actual construction
costs for the extension are submitted to the Public Works Director, the terms
of the recapture agreement will then be drawn up by the Public Works Director.
      (3)   Generally, other customers desiring to tap into the extension after
installation shall pay the town their proportionate share of the cost as
determined by the recapture agreement. The funds so collected shall then be
paid to the developer. If a single entity extends a line, and other customers
tap into it, the entity can collect from the other customers through the town.
      (4)   The maximum period of time of the recapture agreement shall be up
to ten years.
(1974 Code, § 14-5-9)
§ 152.078 IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS.
   With the written consent of the Council, some of the following may be
waived.
   (A)   Roadways. All streets shall be designed by a professional engineer
registered in the state to withstand the structural loads imposed by the
anticipated traffic flow. (See Title VII of this code of ordinances.) The
transportation plan states that any new street must be built up to the standard
into which it ties. It also states the street must have six inches of AB gravel
as base, four inches of gravel and two inches of cake or three inches of chip
seal.
      (1)   Collector and minor streets: 24-foot width of pavement; and
      (2)   Short loop and cul-de-sac: 24-foot width of pavement.
   (B)   Curbs. All streets shall be improved at each edge of the roadway with
portland cement curbs. Integral curb and gutter is permissible.
   (C)   Sidewalks. All streets shall be improved with two portland cement
concrete sidewalks at least four feet wide, by five inches thick, unless
special conditions warrant waiving this requirement. Ordinarily, sidewalks
shall be located adjacent to each curb. Pedestrian crosswalks shall be improved
with one similar sidewalk located approximately in the center of the right-of-
way.
   (D)   Storm sewers. Surface drainage from street and other areas shall be
carried by gutters and storm sewers to suitable connections with the town
drainage system.
   (E)   Sanitary sewers.
      (1)   Subdivisions shall be provided with a complete sanitary sewer
system connected to the municipal system at the developer’s expense, serving
each lot designed for human habitation unless the Council waives this
requirement because of special conditions (such as none being available).
      (2)   Individual septic systems must be approved and inspected by the
county.
   (F)   Potable water system. The subdivisions shall be provided with a public
potable water distribution system serving each lot designed for human
habitation and fire hydrants shall be provided at each street intersection and
at approximately 600-foot intervals on each street between intersections
connected to the municipal system at developer’s expense, unless the Council
waives these requirements because of special conditions.
   (G)   Underground telephone, electrical and other cable distribution
systems. All telephone, electrical and other cable distribution systems shall
be installed underground.
   (H)   Street lighting. The subdivision shall be provided with suitable
street lights at each street intersection and at intervals of approximately 300
feet between intersections unless the Council waives this requirement because
of special conditions.
   (I)   Street name signs. Street signs corresponding in design to those
adopted as standard for the town shall be installed as necessary for convenient
identification of streets.
   (J)   Prior approval. Plans for each improvement shall receive individual
approval by the Council before construction of same is commenced.
   (K)   Performance bond.
      (1)   In lieu of installation of the required improvements at the time of
platting, the subdivider may enter into a contract with the town to install the
improvements at a later date and provide a performance bond acceptable to the
town.
      (2)   The bond shall not be released until the expiration of 90 days
after the Council receives that letter provided in §
152.055(F).
(1974 Code, § 14-5-10)
PERMIT FOR BUILDING; COMPLIANCE WITH CODE
§ 152.090 BUILDING PERMIT.
   No building permit shall be issued by the Building Inspector or Town Clerk
unless there has been full compliance with the provisions of this chapter and
with the planning and zoning ordinance by the owner or prior owners of the
property to be improved.
(1974 Code, § 14-6-1)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to knowingly violate the provisions of this
chapter. Violation shall be punished as a class 1 misdemeanor. Each day a
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense, unless Council
alters this requirement because of special conditions.
(1974 Code, § 14-6-2)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Short title
   
153.002   Purpose
   
153.003   Interpretation and application
   
153.004   Planning and Zoning Commission
   
153.005   Enforcement
   
153.006   Severability
   
153.007   Definitions
Administrative Procedures
   
153.020   Building requirements (permits)
   
153.021   Amendments or zone changes
   
153.022   Conditional use permits
   
153.023   Plan review
Supplementary and Qualifying Regulations
   
153.035   Non-conforming uses and structures
   
153.036   Street and utility requirements
   
153.037   Lot and setback requirements
   
153.038   Walls and fences
   
153.039   Home businesses
Signs
   
153.050   Purpose
   
153.051   Definitions
   
153.052   Permits
   
153.053   General sign provisions
   
153.054   Safety in construction and city non-liability
   
153.055   Specific regulations for each zone
   
153.056   Enforcement
Parking and Loading Requirements
   
153.070   Purpose
   
153.071   Residential areas
   
153.072   Commercial and industrial areas
   
153.073   Conditional use permit parking
Sexually Oriented Businesses
   
153.085   Purpose and intent
   
153.086   Definitions
   
153.087   Zoning and locating regulated businesses
   
153.088   Measurement of distance
   
153.089   Sexually oriented business permit; purpose
   
153.090   Investigation and issuance
   
153.091   Denial of application for permit
   
153.092   Annual permit fee
   
153.093   Inspection
   
153.094   Expiration of permit
   
153.095   Suspension of permit
   
153.096   Revocation of permit
   
153.097   Appeal and review
   
153.098   Transfer of permit
   
153.099   Sexually oriented business employee license
Zoning Districts
   
153.110   Establishment of zoning districts
   
153.111   Location and boundaries of districts
   
153.112   Open Space Zone
   
153.113   Agricultural Zone
   
153.114   Single-Family Residential Zone
   
153.115   Mobile Home Zone
   
153.116   Commercial Zone
   
153.117   Industrial Zone
   
153.118   Subdivisions
Sample Forms
   153.130—153.136   Reserved
   
153.137   Zoning Map
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as “The Zoning Ordinance of the Town of
Fredonia, Arizona”.
(1974 Code, § 18-1-1) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-
1999)
§ 153.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to secure safety from fire, panic and other
dangers; to provide adequate light and air; to lessen congestion in the
streets; to prevent the overcrowding of land, to avoid undue concentration of
population, to facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water,
sewerage, schools, parks and other public requirements; to provide for the
social, physical and economic advantages resulting from comprehensive and
orderly planned use of resources; to encourage economic development; and to
otherwise promote the health, safety, convenience and general welfare of the
citizens of the town.
(1974 Code, § 18-1-2) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-
1999)
§ 153.003 INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION.
   In its interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter shall
be held to be minimum requirements for the promotion of a comprehensive plan,
and for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare. It is
not intended by this chapter to repeal welfare. It is not intended by this
chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul or, in any way, impair or interfere with
existing provisions of other laws or ordinances, except those specifically
repealed by this chapter, or with restrictions placed upon property by
covenant, deed or other agreement between parties; provided that, where this
chapter imposes a greater restriction on land, buildings or structures than is
imposed or required by the existing provisions of law, ordinance, contract or
deed, the provisions of this chapter shall control.
(1974 Code, § 18-1-3) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-
1999)
§ 153.004 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment, composition, terms of members, vacancies, compensation
of members. There is hereby established a Planning and Zoning Commission of the
town, to consist of five members, each of whom shall be a resident of the town,
to be appointed by the Town Council. Members shall be appointed to staggered
three-year terms with no more than two commencing in the same year. Vacancies
shall be filled by the Council to finish any unexpired term. All members shall
serve without pay. However, members of the Commission may be reimbursed for
actual expenses incurred in connection with their duties upon authorization by
the Commission and approval by the Town Council. One member of the Town Council
shall serve as an ex-officio member of the Planning and Zoning Commission and
shall function as a voting member in the absence of any member of the Planning
and Zoning Commission and shall, in that case, be considered a member of the
Commission in terms of forming a voting quorum.
   (B)   Powers and duties. It shall be the duty of the Commission to formulate
and administer any plan duly adopted by the Council for the present and future
growth of the town pertaining to the use of land and buildings for any purpose
and to keep this plan current and up to date by recommending amendments from
time to time to the Town Council. The Commission shall administer, subject to
approval by Town Council, the zoning ordinance in all matters relating
thereunto and shall carry out the specific duties as outlined in this chapter
and shall undertake all activities usually associated therewith and commonly
known as “planning and zoning” responsibilities, including conditional use
permits. The Commission will review all aspects of proposed re-zoning, code
amendments and other development requests including, but not limited to,
present and projected growth of the town, site planning and the relationship of
the development to the surrounding environment and the community regarding land
use and zoning.
   (C)   Rules, regulations, records, meetings. All meetings of the Commission
shall be open to the public. The minutes and records of all Commission
proceedings shall be kept indefinitely and filed as public record in the office
of the Town Clerk. The Commission shall establish its own rules of conduct,
officers, meeting schedule and other matters relating to the conduct of the
business of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (D)   Quorum, voting. Three members shall constitute a quorum. The
affirmative vote of three members shall be required for passage of any matter
before the Commission. In this connection, the minutes of the meeting shall
reflect the “ayes” and “nays” cast on a particular measure. A member may
abstain from voting upon a declaration that he or she has a conflict of
interest, in which case the member shall take no part in the deliberation on
the matter in question. The member of the Town Council shall serve as a voting
member in the absence of any one regular member of the Commission.
(1974 Code, § 18-1-4) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-
1999)
§ 153.005 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The enforcing officer of this chapter shall be the town office and it
shall also be the duty of the Marshal of the town and of all officers of the
town otherwise charged with the enforcement of the law to enforce the
provisions of the chapter.
   (B)   No building permit shall be issued for the construction,
reconstruction, alteration, movement or use of any building, structure, lot or
parcel if the building or structure proposed to be constructed, reconstructed,
altered, used or moved, or the lot or parcel as proposed to be used would be in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, unless directed to issue
the permit by the Town Council after interpretation of the chapter or the
granting of a variance or by the Town Council after lawful amendment of this
chapter.
   (C)   (1)   The town staff and other enforcement officers may, in the
discharge of their duties, and for good or probable cause, enter any premises,
building or structure at any reasonable hour to inspect the same in connection
with any application made under this chapter, or for any investigation or
inspection as to whether or not any portion of the premises, building or
structure is being used in violation of this chapter.
      (2)   Written notice served on the owner or occupant of any premises
sought to be inspected, at least 24 hours before the inspection takes place,
shall be given in all cases in which permission to inspect has been refused.
Every person who, after the receipt of the notice, denies or prevents,
obstructs or attempts to deny, prevent or obstruct access to the premises may
be charged with a class 1 misdemeanor.
(1974 Code, § 18-1-6) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-
1999)
§ 153.006 SEVERABILITY.
   If any part of this chapter is found to be invalid or unconstitutional by
any court, the action shall not apply to the chapter as a whole and it is
intended and declared that all parts of this chapter not expressly declared to
be invalid shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding so much
thereof as may be declared to be invalid or unconstitutional.
(1974 Code, § 18-1-8) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-
1999)
§ 153.007 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURE. The tilling of the soil, the raising of crops, horticulture and
gardening, the raising of livestock and fowl, but not agricultural industries
or businesses, fur farms, animal hospitals or similar uses.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, for the
housing or enclosing of persons, animals, vehicles and the like.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A detached subordinate building clearly incidental to
and located upon the same lot as is occupied by the principal building or
dwelling.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance from the grade to the highest
point of the coping of a flat roof, or the deck line of a mansard roof, or to
the main height level between the ridge and eaves of a gable, hip or gambrel
roof.
   BUILDING, MAIN. The principal building or one of the principal buildings
upon a lot, or the building or one of the principal buildings housing the
principal use upon a lot.
   BUILDING, PUBLIC. A building owned and operated or owned and intended to be
operated by a public agency of the United States of America, of the state or
any of its subdivisions.
   CHILD NURSERY. An establishment for the care and/or instruction, whether or
not for compensation, of six or more children, other than members of the
family, residing on the premises.
   CONDITIONAL USE. To permit certain uses that are “improper under general
conditions”, but might be harmonious uses if granted with conditions attached
that will “ensure their compatibility and proper integration into the land use
pattern.” See §
153.022. These are considered by the Planning and Zoning Board with
recommendation to the Town Council who grants or denies the conditional use.
They are separate and distinct from a variance and are handled differently. A
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT may be temporary, permanent or have a time limit.
   CONDOMINIUM or TOWNHOUSE. A development where there is ownership of a single
unit in a multiple-family development, together with an undivided interest in
the common area and facilities, and the project meets all requirements of the
Condominium Ownership Act, being A.R.S. §§ 33-1201 et seq., of the state.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof, which is designed for residential
purposes, except for motels or hotels.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building designed or arranged to be occupied by
two or more families.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building arranged or designed to be occupied by
one family, the structure has only one dwelling unit.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms in a dwelling, designed for or occupied by
one family for living or sleeping purposes and having kitchen facilities for
the use of not more than one family.
   FAMILY. An individual, or two or more persons related by blood, marriage or
adoption living together as a single housekeeping unit in a dwelling; or a
group of not more than four persons who need not be related by blood, marriage
or adoption, living together as a single housekeeping unit in a dwelling unit.
   FRONT SETBACK. The setback area along any street frontage whatsoever,
whether it is the side or front yard of a property.
   GROUP HOME. A dwelling unit where the family has integrated into itself
individuals not related by blood or marriage because of special needs and on a
payment basis.
   HOUSEHOLD PETS. Animals or fowl ordinarily permitted in the house and kept
for personal use, such as dogs and cats, but not kept for commercial purposes
as defined in this chapter.
   INSPECTOR. Any employee of the town authorized to enforce this chapter. The
Town Council may, by resolution from time to time, specifically entrust the
enforcement to specifically named employees as a specialized duty without
revoking the general authority previously given to other employees.
   JUNK. Old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, plastics, paper,
trash, weeds, rubber, debris, waste or junked, dismantled or wrecked
automobiles or parts thereof, iron, steel and other old or scrap ferrous or
non-ferrous material.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or to be occupied by a main building, or
group of buildings, accessory and main, together with the yards, open spaces,
lot width and lot area as are required by this chapter and having frontage upon
a dedicated and improved street. Except for multiple-family dwellings, not more
than one dwelling structure shall occupy one LOT.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot having frontage on two or more improved streets.
   MANUFACTURED OR MODULAR HOME. A factory-built single-family or two-family
dwelling that is manufactured or constructed under the authority of 42 U.S.C. §
5401, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a
dwelling with a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities,
and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems
contained therein. They bear a seal from the U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development (HUD) certifying code compliance. Single-wide modular homes
have the original pitched roof, no tongue, no axles, thermo-pane windows, at
least two-foot by four-foot walls, approved tie-downs and installed on a
permanent foundation.
   MARIJUANA INFUSION FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. A food processing or other food
establishment of any type or size, not operated by a medical marijuana
dispensary and not located at a marihuana cultivation site, by which is or may
be permitted by Arizona law to contract with and does provide to a medical
marijuana dispensary edible food products infused with medical marijuana.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA DESIGNATED CAREGIVER CULTIVATION LOCATION. An enclosed
facility that not exceed 250 square feet of cultivation space, where a
designated caregiver, as defined by A.R.S. § 28-2801(5) cultivates marijuana.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY. A nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary duly
registered and certified pursuant to A.R.S. § 36-2804.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY OFFSITE CULTIVATION LOCATION. The one
additional location if any, duly identified pursuant to A.R.S. § 36-2806(E)
where marijuana will be cultivated for sale at a nonprofit medical marijuana
dispensary duly registered and certified pursuant A.R.S. § 36-2804.
   MARIJUANA INFUSION FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. A food processing or other food
establishment of any type or size, not operated by a medical marijuana
dispensary and not located at a marihuana cultivation site, by which is or may
be permitted by Arizona law to contract with and does provide to a medical
marijuana dispensary edible food products infused with medical marijuana.
   MOBILE HOME. Single-wide trailer that is transportable in one section and
built upon a permanent chassis.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any area or tract of land used or designed to accommodate
two or more mobile homes for permanent, rented living purposes as opposed to a
recreation vehicle park where campers or travel trailers are generally parked
for overnight or short periods of time.
   MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. An area or tract of land designed and developed for
manufactured or mobile homes, as defined herein.
   MOTOR HOME. A vehicular unit, designed to provide temporary living quarters,
built into as an integral part of, or permanently attached to, a self-propelled
motor vehicle chassis or van. The vehicle must contain permanently installed
independent life support systems which meet the ANSI/NFPA 501C standard, and
provide at least two of the following facilities: cooking, refrigeration or ice
box, self-contained toilet, heating and/or air conditioning, a potable water
supply, 110/125 volt power, 12 volt power and/or LP gas supply.
   NON-CONFORMING BUILDING, STRUCTURE OR USE. A building, structure or use of
land, or portion thereof, lawfully existing at the time this chapter became
effective which does not conform to all regulations herein prescribed for the
zone in which it is located. This building, structure or use may be referred to
as “grandfathered”.
   PARK TRAILER. A vehicular unit which meets the following criteria:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis, mounted on wheels;
      (2)   Designed to provide seasonal or temporary living quarters which may
be connected to utilities necessary for operation of installed fixtures and
appliances;
      (3)   Of a construction as to permit persons without special skills using
only hand tools which may include lifting, pulling and supporting devices to
set up the unit; and
      (4)   The gross trailer area of a single chassis when in the set-up mode
is not to exceed 400 square feet.
   PARKING LOT. An open area other than a street, used for parking motor
vehicles.
   PERMANENT FOUNDATION. A manufactured home requires a strip footing or a slab
with double cinder block under metal pillars for weight bearing. Cement footing
or slab need to be 18 inches deep, for frost protection.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular type unit primarily designed as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping or travel use, which either has its
own motive power or is mounted on or towed by another vehicle. The basic
entities are: travel trailer, camping trailer, truck camper, motor home, fifth
wheel, part trailer and van.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. Site designed and developed for campers or travel
trailers to be parked for overnight or short periods of time.
   STREET. A public thoroughfare which affords principal means of access to
abutting property and is dedicated and improved to the standards of the town.
(See Title VII of this code of ordinances.)
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, which requires location on the
ground or attached to something having a location on the ground.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular portable unit, mounted on wheels of a size or
weight as not to require special highway movement permits when drawn by a
motorized vehicle, primarily designed and constructed to provide temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping or travel use and of a body width of
no more than eight feet and a body length of no more than 40 feet when factory
equipped for the road.
   USE, ACCESSORY. A subordinate use customarily incidental to and located upon
the same lot as is occupied by a main use.
   VARIANCE. A special request to the town to permanently waive or alter a
normal development requirement of a zoning district. A VARIANCE cannot change a
use, but only development requirements.
   WIDTH OF LOT. The distance between the side lot line at the distance back
from the front lot line required as the setback for any building or structure.
   YARD, FRONT. A space on the same lot with a building, between the front line
of the building and the front lot line and extending across the full width of
the lot. A corner lot has two front yards for setback purposes.
   YARD, REAR. A space on the same lot with a building, between the rear line
of the building and the rear line of the lot and extending the full width of
the lot.
   YARD, SIDE. A space on the same lot with a building between the side line of
the building and the side line of the lot and extending from the front yard to
the rear yard line.
(1974 Code, § 18-5-1) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-
1999; Ord. 11-004, passed 10-11-2011)
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES
§ 153.020 BUILDING REQUIREMENTS (PERMITS).
   On 3-9-2004, the Town Planning and Zoning Commission and the Fredonia Town
Council adopted the following building codes: National Electric Code 2002,
Uniform Plumbing Code 2003, Uniform Mechanic Code 2003, Building Construction
and Safety Code Handbook 2003 and NFPA 5000, NFPA Standard for Electric Safety
2000 and all ANSI standards.
(1974 Code, § 18-2-1) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-
1999; Ord. 13-001, passed 2-26-2013)
§ 153.021 AMENDMENTS OR ZONE CHANGES.
   (A)   Petition for amendment or change. The Council may, from time to time,
change the district boundaries or amend the regulation herein established. The
change may be initiated by the Council, the Planning and Zoning Commission, or
by petition of one or more owners of real property within the area proposed to
be changed. Petitions for a zone change shall be filed with the Town Clerk on
forms provided by the town and a filing fee, as may be established from time to
time by the Town Council, shall be paid.
   (B)   Commission action. Upon receipt of a completed application and payment
of the required filing fee, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall set a
public hearing for the proposed change, giving notice thereof to interested
parties and to the public by publication of a notice in a newspaper of general
circulation in the town, by posting notice of the change in three public
places, not less than 45 days prior to the hearing. The notice shall state the
time and place of the hearing and a general explanation of the matter to be
considered, including a general description of the area affected. At the
hearing, the Commission may:
      (1)   Vote to deny the request;
      (2)   Vote to approve the request; or
      (3)   Vote to approve the request, but reduce the amount of area
recommended for approval.
   (C)   Council action.
      (1)   Once the Commission has held a public hearing, the Council may
adopt the recommendation of the Commission without holding a public hearing if
there is no objection, request for a hearing, or other protest to the
Commission action. The Council shall hold a public hearing if requested by an
aggrieved party, any member of the public, or by the request of the governing
body or the Planning and Zoning Commission. The manner of holding the public
hearing shall be the same as required by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
Additional notice may be given if the Town Council deems it necessary or
desirable.
      (2)   The Council may not make changes in the proposal unless first
returned to the Planning and Zoning Commission for their recommendation.
      (3)   At the time of re-zoning, the Council shall establish a schedule
for development of the specific use or uses for which re-zoning is requested.
If at the expiration of this period, the property has not been improved for the
use for which it was approved, it shall revert to its former zoning
classification without legislative action.
   (D)   Reconsideration of denied changes. In the event that a petition for an
amendment is denied by the Council, or is withdrawn after the Commission
hearing, the Commission shall not consider the petition or any other petition
for the same amendment of this chapter as it applies to the same property
described in the petition, or any part thereof, for a period of one year from
the date of the denial, unless the conditions upon which the original denial
was based have made a significant change.
(1974 Code, § 18-2-2) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-
1999)
§ 153.022 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Purpose. To provide for the regulation of land uses to ensure their
compatibility and proper integration into the land use pattern of the town.
Certain uses which may be harmonious under special conditions, but improper
under general conditions are classified as conditional uses and require
conditional use permits for approval, prior to construction.
   (B)   Permit required. An approved conditional use permit shall be required
for each conditional use listed in this chapter. No building permit or other
permit or license shall be issued for a use requiring conditional use approval
until a conditional use permit shall first have been recommended by the
Commission and then approved by the Town Council.
   (C)   Conditional use application. Petition for a conditional use permit
shall be made to the Town Clerk on forms provided by the town and a filing fee,
(see fee schedule) as may be established from time to time by the Town Council,
shall be paid. Along with the application, the applicant shall file a site
development plan, drawn to scale, and showing the location of all existing and
proposed buildings, fences, general landscaping, automobile circulation and
parking, loading areas, garbage collection areas, lighting, signs and
topography. If necessary, the applicant will file a vicinity map, a drainage
plan and any other information that the Commission may deem desirable to
properly consider the request.
   (D)   Commission action. Upon receipt of an application for a conditional
use permit, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold a hearing on the
request at its next regular Commission meeting. The Commission, after review,
shall recommend approval of the request by addition of any conditions that it
might deem necessary to protect the health, safety, welfare and aesthetics of
the area.
   (E)   Council action. Once the Commission has held a hearing on the
application for a conditional use permit, it shall make recommendation to the
Town Council, and the Council may approve deny or send the conditional use
application back to the Commission for modification in public meeting. In
approving any conditional use, the Council shall find the proposed use to be
necessary or desirable for and not detrimental to the public health, safety and
welfare, and that it is in harmony with the intent and purpose of the master
plan of the town. It may impose such regulations and conditions it may deem
necessary to allow it to make those findings.
   (F)   Time limitation. The use becomes effective upon Council action. The
conditional use permit shall be good for a period of one year from the date of
approval, otherwise it shall become null and void. At the termination of the
time period, the permit shall be void if the work approved by the permit has
not been completed. An extension for the construction period may be approved by
the Council, upon application by the applicant and recommendation by the
Planning and Zoning Commission. Extensions may be granted for a maximum period
of one year at a time. Upon completion of the construction of all improvements
proposed and required to be constructed, no further review shall be necessary.
The Council may place a time limitation on some uses in which case the use will
be reviewed at the end of the period specified. The review may result in a
continuation of the request for a period of time, or it may result in
termination of the conditional use permit.
   (G)   Denial of request. In the event that the Council denies the request
for a conditional use permit, no person shall reapply on the same property for
a period of one year from the date of denial unless the conditions upon which
the original denial was based have changed substantially.
(1974 Code, § 18-2-3) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-
1999)
§ 153.023 PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the plan review is to allow the town to
determine that the development is in conformity with the intent and purpose of
this chapter and with all other ordinances. The plan review requirement shall
apply to all permitted and conditional uses in all zoning districts.
   (B)   Review. The Building Inspector will review all plans submitted. Plans
requiring review and approval by the Planning and Zoning Commission, Board of
Adjustment or Town Council will be referred to the appropriate body for review
and action. Once approved, permits may be issued, fees paid and then
construction may begin. Failure to submit plans or failure to receive plan
approval prior to construction shall be considered to be a violation of this
chapter.
   (C)   Official soil test. The town shall recommend to each property owner,
at the time permit is issued, that an official soil test and report to
determine type and consistency of soil on building site be obtained.
(1974 Code, § 18-2-4) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-
1999)
SUPPLEMENTARY AND QUALIFYING REGULATIONS
§ 153.035 NON-CONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE. A structure which was lawfully erected prior to
the adoption of this chapter but which, under this chapter, does not conform
with the standards of coverage, yard spaces, height of structures or distance
between structures prescribed in the regulations for the district in which the
structure is located.
      NON-CONFORMING USE. A use of a structure or land which was lawfully
established and maintained prior to the adoption of this chapter, but which,
under this chapter, does not conform to the use regulations for the district in
which it is located.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   Any non-conforming structure may be restored to a safe condition.
Any expansion must be approved by the Council. Replacement of a non-conforming
structure or use terminates its non-conforming status.
      (2)   The lawful use of land, buildings or structures existing at the
time of the passage of this chapter, although it does not conform to the
provisions hereof, may be continued, but if the non-conforming use is
discontinued for a period of one year, any future use of the land or structure
shall be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   A non-conforming use of a building or land shall not be changed to
another non-conforming use. Changes shall be to a conforming use only.
      (4)   No building, structure or premises shall be used and no building,
structure or part thereof shall be constructed, altered, repaired, improved,
moved, removed, erected or materially altered, except in conformity with the
provision of the zone in which it is located, unless it is non-conforming as
provided herein. Any use that is not specifically permitted is hereby declared
to be a prohibited use, unless otherwise approved by the Council.
(1974 Code, § 18-3-1) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-
1999)
§ 153.036 STREET AND UTILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All lots shall have access to a public street connecting the public
street system and shall meet the size requirements of the zone in which it is
located.
   (B)   A water supply shall be available for each lot for which a building
permit is requested. Responsibility for running utility lines to lots is the
responsibility of the lot owner. After installation of the water system and
other utilities, to the town standards, the town will accept the line for
upkeep and maintenance up to the edge of the private property.
   (C)   All lots for which a building permit is requested shall receive a
permit for the installation of a septic tank from the County Health Department
prior to making application for the building permit. No septic tanks will be
allowed where sewer hook-up is available within 300 feet.
   (D)   Improvements to or other uses of property shall not interfere with or
obstruct the established drainage pattern over the lot from or to adjacent
lots, and any modification of drainage on the lot, such as paving, piping or
channelization, shall not increase the runoff in such a manner as to cause
flooding or flood related damage to adjacent lots or public facilities.
   (E)   A signed easement must be filed with the Town Clerk whenever extension
of a town owned power line or other utility is requested. The cost of extending
utility shall be borne by the property owner in all cases. The cost of
extending the utility line may be shared by subsequent users of the line up to
ten years from the date of installation. Part of the original cost may be
charged to the add-ons. (See line extension in policy and procedures manual.)
All future subdivision construction to have underground utilities. (See §
153.118.)
(1974 Code, § 18-3-2) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-
1999)
§ 153.037 LOT AND SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No yard or other open space provided around any building shall be
considered as the yard or open space for any other building unless originally
designed as such.
   (B)   Awnings, open fire balconies, fire-escape stairs, window-type
refrigeration units, suspended or roof evaporative coolers, and forced air
furnaces may project into the required setback area a distance of no more than
three feet.
   (C)   Sills and similar ornamental features may extend into the setback
areas not more than 12 inches.
   (D)   Any part of any detached accessory building shall not be located
closer than ten feet from any main structure and shall be at least two feet
from any side or rear property line. Any runoff water from roof must land on
owner’s property. The term FRONT SETBACK AREA in this chapter shall refer to
the setback area along any street frontage whatsoever, whether it is the side
or front yard of a property.
   (E)   Combined lots where two or more lots are used as a building site with
structure(s) that cross lot lines, the entire area shall be considered as one
lot and shall be recorded with a new legal description that establishes the
combined lots as one lot. If two lots are large enough to move the boundary
line, the remaining lot must still fit zoning size standards.
   (F)   No space needed to meet the width, yard, area, coverage, parking or
other requirement of this chapter for lot or building may be sold or leased
away from the lot or building. No parcel of land, which has less than the
minimum width and area requirements for the zone in which it is located, may be
used for the building or development of a structure or use provided herein.
(1974 Code, § 18-3-3) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-
1999)
§ 153.038 WALLS AND FENCES.
   (A)   For safety reasons, no wall or fence shall be over three feet in
height in any front yard setback on a corner, except when an open, chain-link
type fence may be constructed in the setback areas to a height of six feet;
provided that, it is left open.
   (B)   A conditional use permit is required for barbed wire, razor wire and
electrically charged fence. All electric fences shall be signed to alert the
public to the fact that an electric fence is present. No charge shall be made
for the application.
(1974 Code, § 18-3-4) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-
1999)
§ 153.039 HOME BUSINESSES.
   Home businesses shall be permitted only with a conditional use permit in any
residential zone subject to the following requirements.
   (A)   The home business shall be secondary to the use of the property and
dwelling unit for dwelling purposes, and shall not change the character
thereof.
   (B)   There shall be no exterior materials or variation from the residential
character of the principal building.
   (C)   No offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat or glare shall
be produced.
   (D)   The activity limitations shall be determined per case by conditional
use permit. Some restrictions shall apply: no troubled youth or violent
individuals.
   (E)   Permit must be renewed annually.
   (F)   Any violations of the terms of the conditional use permit make it
subject to revocation.
   (G)   A home business shall not include the following: any business that
caused danger to the neighbors, gives off irritating odors or noise, or
discharges hazardous waste into the air or ground. Others will be determined on
a case by case basis.
(1974 Code, § 18-3-5) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-
1999)
SIGNS
§ 153.050 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to encourage the effective use of
signs as a means of communication and to improve the appearance and aesthetic
quality of the community. The subchapter seeks to permit signs that will not,
by reason of their size, location, construction or manner of display, endanger
the public safety of individuals, confuse, mislead or obstruct the vision
necessary for traffic safety or otherwise endanger public health, safety and
morals.
   (B)   The sign requirements contained herein are declared to be the maximum
allowable, and sign types not specifically allowed as set forth within this
section shall be prohibited. Where other ordinances are in conflict with the
provisions of this chapter, the most restrictive ordinance shall apply.
(1974 Code, § 306) (Res. 07-001, passed 2-13-2007; Ord. 07-001, passed 4-24-
2007)
§ 153.051 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERATION. A change or rearrangement in the structural part of design
whether by extending on a side, by increasing in area or height, or by
relocating or change in position. ALTERATIONS shall not be interpreted to
include changing outdoor bulletin or other similar signs, which are designed to
accommodate changeable copy.
   BUILDING, FRONT LINE OF. The line of that face of the building or structure
nearest the front line of the lot. The face includes sun parlors, bay windows,
covered and/or uncovered porches whether enclosed or unenclosed, but does not
include uncovered steps less than four feet above grade and eaves overhanging
less than two feet.
   BUILDING LINE. A vertical surface intersecting the ground along the line of
the face of the building or structure nearest the front line of the lot.
   CLEAR VIEW AREA. A triangular area formed by the intersection of lines
extended from the front face of the curb and a line connecting them at points
25 feet from the intersection of the lines.
   NON-CONFORMING SIGN OR SIGN STRUCTURE. A sign or sign structure or portion
thereof lawfully existing at the time of its construction which does not
conform to all height, area, yard spacing, animation, lighting or other
regulations prescribed in the zone in which it is located.
   SIGN.
      (1)   A presentation or representation of words, letters, figures,
designs, picture or colors, publicly displayed so as to give notice relative to
a person, a business, an article of merchandise, a service, an assemblage, a
solicitation or a request for aid; also, the structure or framework or any
natural object on which any sign is erected or is intended to be erected or
exhibited or which is being used or is intended to be used for sign purposes.
      (2)   The following are individual sign definitions which are specific
types of signs included within the general definition above.
         (a)   “A” FRAME SIGN. Temporary and/or moveable sign constructed with
two sides attached at the top so as to allow the sign to stand in an upright
position.
         (b)   ABANDONED SIGN. A sign which identifies a discontinued use on
the property or has not been maintained for a period of 60 days, where conduct
on the part of the sign owner or the person having control of the sign
indicates an intention to relinquish ownership or title to the sign.
         (c)   ANIMATED SIGN. A sign which involves motion or rotation of any
part, created by artificial means or which displays flashing, revolving or
intermittent lights.
         (d)   BALLOON SIGN. Advertisement supported by a balloon anchored to
the premises where the advertised use is conducted, product or commodity sold,
service performed or a business name is located.
         (e)   CANOPY SIGN (including AWNING, MARQUEE, SUSPENDED SIGNS).
            1.   A CANOPY SIGN is any sign which is a structure other than an
awning made of cloth, metal or other material with frames affixed to the
building and carried by a frame which is supported by the ground.
            2.   An AWNING SIGN is any sign which is a structure made of cloth,
metal or other material affixed to a building in a manner that the structure
may be raised or retracted to a position against the building.
            3.   MARQUEE SIGNS are any signs built on a permanent roof-life
structure or canopy of rigid materials supported by and extending from the
facade of a building.
            4.   SUSPENDED SIGNS are signs which are anchored to a building and
are free to hang from the structure to which it is attached.
         (f)   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN. A sign on which copy is changed either
manually in the field (e.g., reader boards with changeable letters, or
automatically on a lampbank) or through mechanical means (e.g., electrical or
electronic time and temperature units).
         (g)   CIVIC SIGN. A sign erected by a public or non-profit agency,
service club and the like for civic or public information.
         (h)   DEVELOPMENT SIGN. An on-premises temporary sign identifying a
construction project or subdivision development. The sign may contain the name
of the project, name and address of the construction firm(s), architect and
developer.
         (i)   DIRECTIONAL/INFORMATION SIGN. A sign no more than three feet
high, and no greater than three square feet, giving directions, instructions or
facility information, which may contain the name or logo of an establishment,
but no advertising copy (e.g., parking, or entrance or exit signs). The sign
may contain a logo; provided that, the logo may not comprise more than 20% of
the total sign area.
         (j)   FLASHING SIGN. A sign which has or appears to have motion or
rotation of the lighting elements or displays flashing or intermittent light.
         (k)   FLAT SIGN. A sign which is affixed to an extension wall or
building or structure and which does not project more than 18 inches from the
building or structure wall.
         (l)   FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign supported upon the ground by poles or
braces and not attached to any building.
         (m)   ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign in which a source of light is used in
order to make the message readable. This definition shall include internally
and externally lighted signs.
         (n)   MONUMENT SIGN. A sign less than six feet in height which is
flush to the ground, is incorporated into the landscape or architectural design
scheme and displays the name of buildings or occupants only.
         (o)   MURAL SIGN. A sign that is applied to a building wall with paint
or a thin layer of vinyl, paper or similar materials adhered directly to the
building surface that has no sign structure.
         (p)   NAME PLATE SIGN. A sign indicating the name and/or occupation of
a person legally occupying the premises.
         (q)   OFF-PREMISES SIGN. An advertising sign which directs attention
to a use, product, commodity or service not related to the premises on which
the sign is located.
         (r)   ON-PREMISES SIGN. A sign directing attention to a use-conducted
product, commodity sold, service performed or business name upon the premises
on which it is located.
         (s)   PROJECTING SIGN. A sign which is affixed to an exterior wall or
building or structure and which projects more than 18 inches from the building
or structure wall, and which does not extend more than three feet above the
parapet, eaves or building facade of the building upon which it is placed.
         (t)   PROPERTY SIGN. A sign related to the property upon which it is
located and offering such information as address, name of occupancy for
residential uses, sale or lease of the property, warning against trespassing,
any hazard or other danger on the property.
         (u)   REAL ESTATE SIGN. One real estate sign on any lot or parcel;
provided, the sign is located entirely within the property to which the sign
applies is not directly illuminated, does not exceed eight square feet in area,
and is removed within seven days after the sale, rental or lease has been
accomplished.
         (v)   ROOF SIGN. A sign which is erected partly or wholly on the roof
of the building. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a sign structure having main
supports embedded in the ground shall not be considered to be a ROOF SIGN even
if the sign’s supports pass through a roof, canopy or parapet of a building.
         (w)   SERVICE SIGNS. A sign that is incidental to a use lawfully
occupying the property upon which the sign is located, and which sign is
necessary to provide information to the public, such as direction to parking
lots, location of restrooms, entrance and exits and the like.
         (x)   SNIPE SIGN. A sign which is attached to a public utility pole,
or the supports for another sign.
         (y)   TEMPORARY SIGN. Any sign, banner, pennant, valance or
advertising display constructed of paper, cloth, canvas, light fabric,
cardboard, wallboard or other light materials, with or without frames, intended
to be displayed out of doors for 30 days.
         (z)   WALL SIGN. A sign that is either painted on a wall or its
facing, and not having a sign frame or separation from the wall or facing.
         (aa)   WINDOW SIGN. A sign permanently attached and located within a
building so as to be visible through a window or door outside of the building.
   SIGN AREA.
      (1)   The area in square feet of the smallest rectangle enclosing the
total exterior surface of a sign. Only one side of a back-to-back or double-
faced sign shall be used in computing sign area when sign surfaces are parallel
or diverge from a common edge by an angle of less than 45 degrees.
      (2)   SIGN AREA of signs in the shape of a sphere, prism, cylinder, cone,
pyramid, square or other shapes shall be computed as one-half of the total
surface area.
   SIGN SETBACK. The minimum distance that any portion of a sign or sign
structure shall be from any street right-of-way line.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected supporting a sign which
requires locations on or below the ground or attached to something having
locations on or below ground.
(1974 Code, § 306) (Res. 07-001, passed 2-13-2007; Ord. 07-001, passed 4-24-
2007)
§ 153.052 PERMITS.
   (A)   Permits. Except as provided in this section, it shall be unlawful to
display, erect, relocate or alter any sign without first filing with the town
office an application in writing and obtaining a sign permit. When a sign
permit has been issued by the town office, it shall be unlawful to change,
modify, alter or otherwise deviate from the terms or conditions of the permit
without prior approval of the town office. A written record of the approval
shall be entered upon the original permit application and maintained in the
files of the town office.
   (B)   Application for permit. The application for a sign permit shall be
made by the owner/tenant of the property on which the sign is to be located, or
his or her authorized agent, or a licensed sign contractor. The application for
a sign permit shall be accompanied by the following plans and other
information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the owner or persons
entitled to possession of the sign and of the sign contractor or erector;
      (2)   The location by street address of the proposed sign structure;
      (3)   Complete information as required on application forms provided by
the town office, including a site plan and elevation drawings of the proposed
sign, caption of the proposed sign and other data as are pertinent to the
application. Specifically, the elevation drawing shall show the type of sign,
the sign display, the sign height and the sign area. The site plan shall
include the proposed location of the sign in relation to the face of the
building or to the boundaries of the lot on which it is situated, existing and
proposed buildings or other structures, control curbs and parking areas;
      (4)   Plans indicating the scope and structural detail of the work to be
done, including details of all connections, guy lines, supports and footing,
and materials to be used;
      (5)   Application for an electrical permit for all electric signs if the
person building the sign is to make the electrical connection; and
      (6)   A statement of the total cost of erecting the sign.
   (C)   Exceptions from permit requirements.
      (1)   Excepted changes. The following changes shall not require a sign
permit. These exceptions shall not be construed as relieving the owner of the
sign from the responsibility of its erection and maintenance and its compliance
with the provisions of this chapter or any other law or ordinance regulating
the same:
         (a)   The changing of the advertising copy or message of a painted,
plastic face or printed sign only. Except for signs specifically designed for
the use of replaceable copy, electric signs shall not be included in this
exception;
         (b)   The electrical, repainting or cleaning maintenance of a sign;
and
         (c)   The repair of a sign.
      (2)   Excepted types. The following types of signs are allowed without
permit, but otherwise subject to the regulations of this section:
         (a)   On-premises advertising signs that are painted on windows or
attached to windows or walls, clearly of a temporary nature, 30 days and under,
and which promote specific sales;
         (b)   Signs which are associated with public and quasi-public
organization functions which are clearly of a temporary nature (30 days and
under);
         (c)   Interior signs;
         (d)   Signs not exceeding two square feet in area and bearing only
property numbers, postal box numbers or names of occupants of premises;
         (e)   Legal notices, identification, information or directional signs
erected by governmental bodies;
         (f)   Property signs with no more than six square feet of area;
         (g)   Service signs with no more than six square feet of area;
         (h)   Permanent signs painted or mounted to the interior or exterior
of the windows; and
         (i)   Temporary signs intended to advertise “garage/yard sales” or
sales of personal goods by a homeowner to the public. The signs shall not be
more than six square feet, and shall not be erected more than 48 hours in
advance of the sale, and no longer than 48 hours during a sale, and shall be
removed within 24 hours after the sale ends.
   (D)   Fees for sign permit. A fee as established by resolution of the Town
Council shall be paid according to the fee schedule to the town for each sign
permit issued under this chapter.
   (E)   Issuance and denial.
      (1)   The town office shall issue a permit and permit tag for the
erection, alteration or relocation of a sign within ten days of receipt of a
valid application; provided that, the sign complies with all applicable laws
and regulations of the town. In all applications, where a matter of
interpretation arises, the more specific definition or higher standard shall
prevail.
      (2)   When a permit is denied by the town office, a written notice shall
be given to the applicant along with a brief statement of the reasons for
denial. The town office may suspend or revoke an issued permit for any false
statement or misrepresentation of fact in the application.
   (F)   Permit conditions, refunds and penalties. If a permit is denied, the
permit fee will be refunded to the applicant.
(1974 Code, § 306) (Res. 07-001, passed 2-13-2007; Ord. 07-001, passed 4-24-
2007)
§ 153.053 GENERAL SIGN PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Traffic hazard. Signs shall not:
      (1)   Be erected at the intersection of any streets or driveways in a
manner as to obstruct free and clear vision; or at any location where, by
reason of the position, shape or color, it may interfere with, obstruct the
view of or be confused with any authorized traffic sign, signal or device.
      (2)   Make use of the words “Stop”, “Drive-in”, “Danger” or any other
words, phrases, symbol or character in a manner as to interfere with, mislead
or confuse vehicle operators.
   (B)   Clearances and setbacks.
      (1)   Signs less than three feet in height may be placed in the clear
view area as allowed by legal setback.
      (2)   Signs more than three feet in height must have a front setback that
shall be the same as for buildings in that zoning district or a front setback
at least 18 inches from the front property line as measured from leading edge
of the sign, whichever is greater. The sign shall also meet clear view
requirements as detailed in §
153.051.
      (3)   Signs over pedestrian ways shall have a clearance between the
ground and the bottom of any projecting or ground sign of not less than eight
feet.
      (4)   Signs over private driveways for vehicular traffic, shall have a
minimum clearance of not less than 14 feet.
   (C)   Signs on and over public property. No sign shall be located on
publicly owned land or inside street right-of-way except signs required and
erected by written permission of the Town Council. No projecting sign attached
to a building shall project over public property, except by written permission
of the Town Council. Ground signs may not project over public property.
   (D)   Prohibited signs. Signs not specifically allowed by this chapter are
prohibited. The following signs are specifically prohibited:
      (1)   Abandoned;
      (2)   Snipe;
      (3)   Any sign placed on vehicles or trailers which are parked or located
for the primary purpose of displaying the sign. (This does not apply to allowed
portable signs or to signs or lettering on buses, taxis or vehicles operating
during the normal course of business);
      (4)   Any sign which exceeds the allowable square feet, except by
permission of the Planning and Zoning Commission; and
      (5)   Home occupation permitted under a conditional use permit.
   (E)   Illuminated signs. An illuminated sign which permits the light to
penetrate beyond the property in a manner as to annoy or interfere with the use
of adjacent properties is prohibited.
   (F)   Anchoring.
      (1)   No sign shall be suspended by non-rigid attachments that will allow
the sign to swing in a wind.
      (2)   All freestanding signs shall have self-supporting structures
erected on or permanently attached to an acceptable foundation as determined by
the Building Inspector.
      (3)   All portable signs on display shall be braced or secured to prevent
motion.
   (G)   Additional construction specifications.
      (1)   No signs shall be erected, constructed or maintained so as to
obstruct any fire escape, required exit, window or door opening used as a means
of egress.
      (2)   No sign shall be attached in any form, shape or manner which will
interfere with any opening required for ventilation, except that signs may be
erected in front of and may cover transom windows when not in violation of the
provisions of the Town Building or Fire Prevention Codes.
      (3)   Signs shall be located in a way as to maintain horizontal and
vertical clearance with all overhead electrical conductors in accordance with
Electrical Code specifications, depending on voltages concerned.
   (H)   Mobile changeable copy sign. One mobile changeable copy sign may be
used for the street frontage of a building, for a period of 14 consecutive
days, not to exceed 28 days in a calendar year. Each sign shall require a sign
permit for each period. The signs shall be in full conformance with all
Building and Electrical Codes. The signs shall not exceed 32 square feet in
size and six feet in height, and shall conform with all setback, clearances and
other general provisions of this chapter.
   (I)   Temporary signs. Permits for any temporary sign shall not exceed 30
days in a calendar year. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to
remove temporary signs upon expiration of the permit period.
   (J)   Maintenance. Every sign shall be kept in good condition as to
maintenance and repair, including the replacement of defective parts,
repainting and cleaning. The ground space within a radius of ten feet from the
base of any ground sign shall be kept free and clear of all weeds, rubbish and
inflammable material.
   (K)   Sign removal. Signs identifying a discontinued use on the property
shall be removed from the property within 30 calendar days of the time the use
was discontinued. A sign remaining thereafter shall be considered abandoned.
   (L)   Repair of building facade. A damaged building facade as the result of
the removal, repair, replacement or installation of any signs shall be repaired
by the property owner within 30 calendar days of the time the use was
discontinued.
   (M)   Non-conforming sign. A non-conforming sign may not be moved to a new
location, altered, enlarged or replaced unless it be made to comply with
provisions of this section.
(1974 Code, § 306) (Res. 07-001, passed 2-13-2007; Ord. 07-001, passed 4-24-
2007)
§ 153.054 SAFETY IN CONSTRUCTION AND CITY NON-LIABILITY.
   (A)   Sign erection safety precautions for streets and sidewalk. Whenever
any sign or other advertising structure is erected in whole or in part on or
over any public street or sidewalk, the person or persons performing the work
shall, before proceeding to erect the same, take all precautions necessary to
ensure the safety of persons and property on the street or sidewalk. Before
hoisting any material whatsoever above the surface of any street or sidewalk or
placing any material upon the traveled portion of any street or sidewalk, the
persons or person performing the work shall exclude the traveling public from
the portion of the street or sidewalk in which the work is to be done by means
of suitable barriers, protected walkways and warning devices approved by the
Building Inspection Department. Whenever the Department shall deem it necessary
under the conditions then existing, it shall provide a guard or guards to
exclude all persons not concerned in the work from the portion of the street or
sidewalk in which the work is to proceed. When hoisting any sign or advertising
structure above the surface of any street or sidewalk, the same shall be
accompanied by hoisting devices of approved design and adequate capacity to
accomplish the work in accordance with approved engineering practices, all of
which hoisting equipment shall be kept and maintained in good and workable
condition.
   (B)   Town non-liability. The town, its town office and its other agents
shall, in no way, be liable for any negligence of the owner or the person
responsible for the sign.
(1974 Code, § 306) (Res. 07-001, passed 2-13-2007; Ord. 07-001, passed 4-24-
2007)
§ 153.055 SPECIFIC REGULATIONS FOR EACH ZONE.
   No person shall install or maintain any sign in the town and in the zones
listed, except as herein provided. Signs not allowed in the following divisions
are specifically prohibited.
   (A)   Residential zone.
      (1)   Name plates. One lighted or unlighted name plate identifying the
occupancy of the premises of maximum area of two square feet. Residential sign
not to exceed eight square feet for name and address of a multiple-family,
residential building. The sign shall not advertise a home occupation.
      (2)   Property signs. No more than one property sign shall be permitted.
Property signs may also be modified to indicate that the property has been
sold, provided that the total area for any one sign does not exceed six square
feet.
      (3)   Civic sign. One civic sign not to exceed 16 square feet in sign
areas.
      (4)   Residential monument signs. Two monument type subdivision
identification signs will be allowed in a residential or other subdivision;
provided that, these signs:
         (a)   Are located a minimum of ten feet from front property lines;
         (b)   Are limited to 65 square feet in area for each sign;
         (c)   Contains no animation;
         (d)   Have no visible source of illumination; and
         (e)   Are limited to six feet in height.
      (5)   Promotional signs for residential developments. One promotional
sign per subdivision shall be allowed, not located in any required setback, not
exceeding 12 feet in height and not containing more than 32 square feet.
Projects with more than ten dwelling units may have an additional two square
feet of sign area per unit up to a maximum of 100 square feet.
      (6)   Bed and breakfast inn. A bed and breakfast inn established may have
a sign of not more than four square feet attached to the building or mounted on
a wooded post a maximum of six feet in height, parallel to the street and set
back at least 15 feet from the curb line.
      (7)   Temporary sign. The signs permitted hereunder shall be temporary in
all cases and shall be removed when all lots have been sold by the original
developer. The sign permitted in this division (A)(7), may be placed on other
land belonging to the same owner providing to the subdivision or planned
development being advertised and both properties involved are different phases
of the same overall development. Any sign permitted by this division (A)(7) may
be illuminated or may be lighted if the source of lighting is not visible.
Animated illumination or lighting shall not be employed.
         (a)   Real estate sign. One real estate sign not to exceed eight
square feet in sign area.
         (b)   Development sign. One residential development sign shall be
permitted, as defined under development signs.
         (c)   Balloon sign. One balloon sign shall be permitted, as defined
under balloon signs.
   (B)   Commercial and manufacturing zones (C-G, C-H, M-O).
      (1)   Residential areas. When located on property butting a residential
zone, signs shall conform to residential requirements with respect to lighting
and animation.
      (2)   Balloon signs. Permitted according to definitions, balloon and
temporary sign definition. Balloon signs must comply with §
153.053.
      (3)   Animated signs. Animated signs may be permitted in commercial zones
only.
      (4)   A-frame signs. A-frame signs may be permitted on commercial
property in accordance with the clear view requirements of this chapter.
      (5)   Entrance or exit signs. One entrance or exit sign may be permitted
at each driveway entering or leaving the premises. The signs shall not exceed
three square feet in area nor be more than six feet in height from the ground.
      (6)   Property signs. No more than two signs offering the premises for
sale, lease or inspection by the public may be permitted; provided that, the
total area of each sign does not exceed 24 square feet. The signs may be
modified to indicate that the property has been sold.
      (7)   Flat signs. May be permitted subject to the following provisions;
flat signs shall not exceed 20% of the face of the front wall with 100 square
foot allowable minimum whichever is greater. A sign shall not project more than
18 inches from the building or structure. A sign shall not rise above the roof
line and may be lighted if the source of lighting is not visible.
      (8)   Wall signs. May be permitted subject to the following provisions;
wall signs shall not exceed 40% of the face of the side wall with 100 square
feet allowable minimum (whichever is greater). Wall signs may be painted
directly on wall surface or on sign board that is attached directly to the wall
face. Wall signs shall not rise above roof line and may be lighted if the
source of lighting is not visible.
      (9)   Mural signs. May be permitted subject to the following provisions;
mural signs shall not exceed 90% of the face of the side wall. Mural signs may
be painted directly on surface or on sign board that is attached to wall face.
Mural signs shall not rise above roof line and may be lighted if the source of
lighting is not visible.
      (10)   Projecting signs. May be permitted subject to the following
provisions; a business with no front setback; one projecting sign may be
permitted and shall not exceed 80 square feet. Businesses with front setback,
one projecting sign may be permitted. The sign shall not exceed 100 square
feet. The sign may be doubled-sided and shall not rise more than three feet
above the roof line. The sign may be lighted if the source of lighting is not
visible. (See below.)
      (11)   Roof signs. Any sign erected over or on the roof of a building.
Roof signs are allowed on the basis of an approved conditional use permit.
      (12)   Monument signs.
         (a)   Any freestanding sign supported upon the ground by a solid base.
Monument signs are intended to be low to the ground requiring no clearance,
which sign and base are of approximately equal size in width and length.
         (b)   Monument signs shall conform to the following requirements.
            1.   Maximum sign height is eight feet.
            2.   Maximum sign area is 80 square feet.
            3.   Number of signs: there may be one sign for each frontage of
property, plus one additional sign for each 100-foot increment of the frontage
in excess of 100 feet.
            4.   Sign setback shall be determined so that no sign will
interfere with the public right-of-way nor clear vision of a street
intersection.
            5.   Minimum distance from a street intersection (back of curb) is
40 feet.
            6.   No sign shall interfere with the public right-of-way.
      (13)   On-premises freestanding signs. On-premises sign means any sign
which directs attention to a use, product, commodity or service performed upon
the premises on which it is located. FREESTANDING means a sign supported upon
the ground by poles or braces, and not attached to any building.
         (a)   No freestanding sign shall be allowed in any residential zone.
         (b)   On-premises freestanding signs shall conform to the following
requirements.
            1.   Signs shall not exceed 35 feet in height, except in a C-H zone
where a maximum height of 50 feet may be allowed.
            2.   Number of signs: there may be one sign for each frontage of
property, plus one additional sign for each 100 feet of the frontage in excess
of the initial 100 feet.
            3.   Adjoining properties: the sign shall be no closer than 25 feet
from adjoining commercial properties. Signs shall be separated by 100 feet.
            4.   Area of sign: shall be determined by the following: frontage
of the lot in lineal feet. Only one sign shall be permitted not to exceed 100
square feet and shall be permitted for parcels with 100 lineal feet of frontage
or less. Thereafter, the area of the sign may be increased by ten square feet
for each additional ten feet of frontage beginning with 110 feet of frontage.
            5.   Maximum sign face shall not exceed 185 square feet. If larger
signs are requested for lots over 250 lineal feet frontage, signs may be
permitted with a conditional use permit. Area of sign may be increased above
the 185 square feet by ten square feet for each additional 25 feet of frontage
beginning with 250 feet of frontage. Maximum sign face shall not exceed 295
square feet. Signs shall be separated by at least 100 feet. The signs shall be
no closer than 50 feet from adjoining commercial properties. Maximum number of
sign per parcel is two.
            6.   No sign shall project over a property line interfering with
the public right-of-way.
            7.   Freestanding signs may be double-sided and may be lighted if
the source of lighting is not visible.
            8.   Where freestanding signs overhang a sidewalk, they shall have
a minimum clearance of eight feet and a minimum of 14 feet over driveways.
            9.   Reader boards. Changeable copy areas and electronic message
centers may not exceed 2% of total sign copy area.
      (14)   Off-premises signs. Off-premises signs means any sign which
directs attention to a use, product, commodity or service not related to the
premises. FREESTANDING means a sign supported by poles or braces, or a monument
sign, and not attached to any building.
         (a)   All off-premises freestanding signs may only be permitted
through the conditional use process. No freestanding signs shall be allowed in
any residential zone.
         (b)   Off-premises freestanding signs shall be permitted for a
commercial enterprise with no alternative for an on-premises sign and, except
for directional signs, and shall conform to the following requirements.
            1.   Sign shall comply with conditions listed under on-premises
signs.
            2.   Sign shall not exceed 100 square feet.
            3.   Minimum distance from a residential zone is 150 feet.
            4.   Maximum number of signs per parcel is one.
            5.   Directional signs shall not exceed nine square feet.
      (15)   Facility signs. Signs identifying churches, schools, public
utilities, buildings and facilities, public-owned and operated properties,
hospitals, homes for the aged, nursing homes, convalescent homes, private
clubs, fraternal organizations and roadside stands are subject to the
following.
         (a)   The signs shall not exceed 24 square feet in area and shall
contain no advertising copy. It shall be located on the property to which it
pertains and the number shall be limited to one.
         (b)   There may be two signs per entrance to the facility and the sign
may be double-faced, if only one sign is requested. Signs must be located on
the property to which it pertains. It may be a freestanding, flat, wall or
monument type sign and shall meet the specification for the type of sign as
described in this chapter.
      (16)   Canopy (including awning, marquee, suspended) signs. A canopy sign
is any sign which is a structure other than an awning made of cloth, metal or
other material with frames affixed to the building and carried by a frame which
is supported by the ground. An awning sign is any sign which is a structure
made of cloth, metal or other material affixed to a building in a manner that
the structure may be raised or retracted to a position against the building.
Marquee signs are any signs built on a permanent roof-like structure or canopy
of rigid materials supported by and extending from the facade of a building.
Suspended signs are signs which are anchored to a building and are free to hang
from the structure to which it is attached.
         (a)   Canopy signs may be permitted only through conditional use
process.
         (b)   Marquee signs only (in this section) will allow reader boards,
changeable copy areas and electronic message centers, but may not exceed 50% of
the total sign copy area.
(1974 Code, § 306) (Res. 07-001, passed 2-13-2007; Ord. 07-001, passed 4-24-
2007)
§ 153.056 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Signs to conform.
      (1)   Except as provided in this subchapter, a sign shall not be erected,
raised, moved, placed, reconstructed, extended, enlarged or altered, unless in
conformity with this section.
      (2)   A non-conforming sign shall not be altered, reconstructed, raised,
moved, placed, extended or enlarged unless the sign is changed so as to conform
to all provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Prohibited signs to be abated.
      (1)   Signs prohibited under other laws or ordinances are also in
violation of this subchapter and are subject to remedies herein provided.
      (2)   The non-conforming sign provisions of this subchapter shall not be
applicable to the prohibited signs.
   (C)   Town office. The town office shall be responsible for inspecting signs
as defined by this section, and shall be authorized to enforce this subchapter,
but the Town Council, by resolution or ordinance, may from time to time entrust
the administration, in whole or in part, to any other office of town government
without amendment to this subchapter.
   (D)   Legal action. The town office with the consent of the Town Council
shall be empowered to institute any appropriate action or proceeding in any
case where any sign is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired,
converted or maintained, or in any case where any sign is used in violation of
any town ordinance, to accomplish the following purposes:
      (1)   To prevent the unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or use;
      (2)   To restrain, to correct or abate the violation;
      (3)   To abate and remove unsafe or dangerous signs. If an unsafe or
dangerous sign is not repaired or made safe within ten working days after
giving notice as provided below, the town office may at once abate and remove a
sign and the person having charge, control or benefit of any sign shall pay to
the town the costs incurred in removal within 30 calendar days after written
notice of the costs is mailed to the people; and
      (4)   Notification by the town shall mean written notice sent by
certified mail to persons having charge or control or benefit of any sign, such
as a property owner, found by the town office to be unsafe.
   (E)   Immediate hazard. In the case of an unsafe or illegal sign that is
either an immediate hazard or whose primary purpose will have been served, at
least in part, before the expiration of the notice period required herein, the
town office may affect an immediate removal without notice, subject to a
subsequent right of hearing by the person receiving benefits therefrom.
   (F)   Notice of non-maintained abandoned sign. The town office shall require
each non-maintained or abandoned sign to be removed from the building or
premises when the sign has not been repaired or put into use by the owner,
person having control or person receiving benefits of the structure within 30
calendar days after notice of non-maintenance or abandonment is given to the
owner, person having control or person receiving benefit of the structure.
   (G)   Right of appeal.
      (1)   Any person who has been ordered by the town office to alter or
remove any sign, or any person whose application for a sign permit has been
refused, may appeal to the Town Council by serving a written notice to the Town
Clerk within ten days of the order of the town office.
      (2)   The notice shall be considered by the Council at its next regularly
scheduled meeting.
      (3)   Upon filing of the notice of appeal, the town office shall take no
further action with regard to any removal of the sign involved until the final
decision of the Council on the appeal is known, unless the town office finds
that the sign involved, by reason of its condition, presents an immediate and
serious danger to the public, or comes within the provisions of division (E)
above, in which case he or she shall proceed immediately as provided in this
subchapter.
(1974 Code, § 306) (Res. 07-001, passed 2-13-2007; Ord. 07-001, passed 4-24-
2007)
PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.070 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to alleviate or prevent congestion of the
public streets, and to promote the safety and welfare of the public by
establishing minimum requirements for the off-street parking and loading and
unloading of motor vehicles in accordance with the use to which the property is
put.
(1974 Code, § 18-3-7) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-
1999)
§ 153.071 RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   (A)   All dwellings in residential zones shall provide for off-street
parking of a minimum of two vehicles.
   (B)   All dwellings shall be capable of parking all vehicles off-street,
even though some vehicles may be parked on street from time to time.
   (C)   Boats, motor homes and the like may be stored on residential lots of
10,000 square feet or more. Any motor home, travel trailer having someone
living in it for more than 30 days requires a conditional use permit.
(1974 Code, § 18-3-7) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-
1999)
§ 153.072 COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL AREAS.
   (A)   In all commercial or industrial zones, businesses and industries shall
provide sufficient off-street parking for all vehicles patronizing the
establishment or industry. No on-street parking of any kind shall be allowed in
industrial zones.
   (B)   In commercial zones, the Town Council may require a business to expand
or enlarge surface and light parking facilities if on-street parking becomes a
nuisance.
(1974 Code, § 18-3-7) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-
1999)
§ 153.073 CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT PARKING.
   All applicants for conditional use permits shall show that they are capable
of providing off-street parking for all vehicles that might be involved with
the conditional use development.
(1974 Code, § 18-3-7) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-
1999)
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
§ 153.085 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the purpose and intent of this subchapter to regulate sexually
oriented businesses in order to promote the health, safety, morals and general
welfare of the citizens of the town and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations to prevent the locating of the businesses in areas of the town
where they may be harmful or deleterious to the community through adverse
secondary effects. It is not intended hereby to impose a limitation or
restriction on the content of any communicative materials, including sexually
oriented materials, nor to restrict or deny access by adults to the materials
insofar as they may be protected by the First Amendment.
(1974 Code, § 18-3-8-1) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-
1999)
§ 153.086 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any individual group of individuals, partners or primary
stockholders or owners of any corporation or other limited liability
association who applies for permit to become the operator of a sexually
oriented business.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who works or performs in and/or for a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not the person is paid a salary, wage or
other compensation by the operator of the business.
   NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY.
      (1)   The appearance of human bare buttock, anus, genitalia or the areola
or nipple of the female breast; or
      (2)   A state of dress which fails to opaquely and fully cover any of the
above.
   OPERATOR. The owner, permit holder, custodian, manager, operator or person
in charge of any sexually oriented business.
   PERMITTED OR LICENSED PREMISES. Any premises that has obtained a license
and/or permit as a sexually oriented business.
   RESIDENTIAL USE. A single-family, duplex, townhouse, multiple-family, mixed
residential or mobile home subdivision, as defined in the town zoning and
subdivision ordinances, or a campground or other commercial housing use.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES. Those businesses engaging in or offering to
the public the following services or products.
      (1)   ADULT ARCADE. Projectors or other image producing machines offering
films, motion pictures, video cassettes or other photographic reproductions,
for a consideration and for viewing by five or fewer persons each, of material
characterized by the depiction or description of “specified sexual activities”
or “specified anatomical areas”.
      (2)   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A
commercial establishment which has as a significant or substantial portion of
its stock-in-trade, or which derives a significant or substantial portion of
its revenue from the sale or rental for any form of consideration any one or
more of the following:
         (a)   Books, magazines or other printed matter, or photographs, films,
video cassettes or other visual representations which are characterized by the
depiction or description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas”; and/or
         (b)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are designed for use
or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse. Another principal business purpose will not
exempt an establishment from coming within this definition so long as one of
its principal business purposes is offering for sale or rental, for some
consideration, any of the materials specified herein.
      (3)   ADULT THEATER. A commercial establishment where:
         (a)   Entertainment is offered featuring persons in a nude state or
performers who in any manner expose “specified anatomical areas”; or
         (b)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes or similar photographic
reproductions are shown which are characterized by “specified sexual
activities” for any form of consideration.
      (4)   ESCORT BUSINESS. The furnishing, offering to furnish or holding
oneself out as a companion, guide or date where a consideration or gratuity of
any type is paid to the escort and to the arranging agency, if one is involved.
An agency or person who agrees or offers to privately model lingerie or to
privately perform a striptease for another person for any consideration shall
be included within this definition.
      (5)   MASSAGE PARLOR. Any place where, for any form of consideration,
there occurs a massage, alcohol rub, administration of oils or balms, electric
or magnetic treatments, or any other treatment manipulation of the human body
which includes any “specified sexual activities”, or which includes exposure of
the operator’s “specified anatomical areas”. This definition shall not include
the practice of massage by any certified operator licensed by the state where
the “specified sexual activity” or exposure is not offered or does not take
place.
      (6)   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person engages in the business
of regularly appearing in a state of nudity or displaying “specified anatomical
areas” for any form of consideration to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
sculpted, photographed or similarly depicted by other persons.
      (7)   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT. A business or commercial
establishment that offers, as one of its primary business purposes and for a
consideration, a place where two or more persons may congregate, associate or
consort for the purpose of “specified sexual activities”.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts below a point immediately above the
top of the areola; and/or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other intentional touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or abnormal, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy;
      (3)   Masturbation, actual or simulated;
      (4)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or
tumescence; and/or
      (5)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1) through (4) hereof.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any of the
following:
      (1)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale exchange or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal devise
which transfers ownership, control or the primary beneficial interest in a
business.
(1974 Code, § 18-3-8-2) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-
1999)
§ 153.087 ZONING AND LOCATING REGULATED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   The establishment of a sexually oriented business shall be permitted
only in a general commercial zone (§
153.116), but in no event shall the business be permitted within 1,000 feet of
any religious institution, school, boys’ or girls’ club or similar existing
youth organization, or public park or public building, or within 1,500 feet of
any property zoned for residential use or used for residential purposes.
   (B)   Nothing in this section prohibits the location of sexually oriented
businesses within retail shopping centers located in a general commercial zone
wherein the activities will have their only frontage upon enclosed malls or
malls isolated from direct view from public streets, parks, schools, religious
institutions, boys’ or girls’ club or similar existing youth organization,
public buildings or residential districts or uses without regard to the
distance requirements of division (A) above.
(1974 Code, § 18-3-8-3) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-
1999)
§ 153.088 MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCE.
   As regarding §
153.087(A), distance between any sexually oriented business and any religious
institution, public or private elementary or secondary school, boys’ or girls’
club or similar existing youth organization, or public park or public building,
or any property zoned for residential use or used for residential purposes
shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures
or objects, from the nearest portion of the building or structure used as part
of the premises where the sexually oriented business is conducted to the
nearest property line of the zone or uses referred to herein.
(1974 Code, § 18-3-8-4) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-
1999)
§ 153.089 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS PERMIT; PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to regulate sexually oriented
businesses in order to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare
of the citizens of the town, and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations to prevent deleterious effects of sexually oriented businesses
within the town. The provisions of this subchapter have neither purpose nor
effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any
communicative materials, including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it
is not the intent to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented
materials protected by the First Amendment.
   (B)   No sexually oriented business shall be permitted to operate without a
valid sexually oriented business permit issued by the town for the particular
type of business. The permit shall be required in addition to the business
license required under Chapter 110 of this code of ordinances and the Town
Clerk shall be responsible for ascertaining whether a proposed sexually
oriented business for which a permit is being applied complies with all zoning
and location requirements of this section, as in the case of any other business
license. The Town Council shall grant, deny, revoke, renew, suspend or cancel
sexually oriented business permits based upon information supplied by the Town
Clerk, augmented by the input from a public hearing in the event the Town
Council shall choose to hold a hearing. Hearings shall be held in accordance
with this code of ordinances with 30 days’ written notice being personally
provided the permit applicant.
   (C)   Application for a business permit shall be made on a form provided by
the town and shall contain the following information with regard to all owners
and be accompanied by the following documents:
      (1)   The full legal name of:
         (a)   All individuals together with any aliases;
         (b)   Any partnership with the names of all partners and a copy of the
partnership agreement, if any; and/or
         (c)   Any corporation together with the date and state of
incorporation, a certificate of good standing from that state, the names and
addresses of all officers, directors and principal stockholders, and the name
of the statutory agent.
      (2)   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually oriented business
under a name other than his or her own, he or she must state the fictitious
name of the business and submit the required documents reflecting registration
under any law of the state pertaining to the registration of a fictitious name
then in effect;
      (3)   Whether the applicant or any of the other individuals listed
pursuant to this division (C) has, within the two- or five-year periods
specified herein, immediately preceding the date of the application, been
convicted of a specified criminal act, and, if so, the specified criminal act
involved together with the date and place of conviction;
      (4)   Whether the applicant or any of the other individuals listed
pursuant to this division (C) has had a previous permit or license for a
sexually oriented business denied, suspended or revoked, including the name and
location of the business as well as the date of denial, suspension or
revocation. If a permit or license for a partnership or corporation wherein any
of the individuals were either a partner or an officer, director or principal
stockholder was revoked, denied or suspended, the name, location and date of it
must be included as well;
      (5)   Whether the applicant or any other individual, partnership or
corporation listed pursuant to this section presently holds any other permits
and/or licenses anywhere else for the operation of a sexually oriented
business;
      (6)   The exact location of the proposed sexually oriented business,
including both a legal description of the property and the street address. The
mailing and residence (street) address of the applicant shall also be included;
      (7)   A recent photograph of the applicant(s);
      (8)   The applicant(s)’ driver’s permit number, Social Security number,
birth date and tax identification number if a partnership or corporation;
      (9)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the proposed
premises, including a statement of total floor space to be occupied by the
business. It should be to scale as near as reasonably possible and in an
understandable form acceptable to the town; and
      (10)   The distance in feet from any church, public or private elementary
or secondary school, boys’ or girls’ club or similar existing youth
organization, or public park or public building, or any property zoned or used
for residential purposes if the same be located within two blocks of the
proposed business.
   (D)   Applicants granted a permit under this section shall have a continuing
duty to promptly supplement application information required by this section in
the event the information changes in any way from what is stated in the
application. A failure to comply with this section within 30 days from the date
of the change shall be grounds for suspension of a permit.
   (E)   Applicants shall be approved in accordance with the requirements of
this section and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance
with health, fire, and building codes and laws before a permit shall be issued.
   (F)   An applicant shall pay a non-refundable application of $100 at the
time of filing an application under this section.
   (G)   All applicants shall be required to list in the application the names
of any and all employees required to be licensed hereby to the extent that they
are then known and to provide thereafter the names of the employees as
available on an on-going basis.
   (H)   Application for a permit hereunder shall constitute a consent by the
applicant to the provisions of this subchapter, and a waiver of objection to
the exercise by the town of those powers and rights given to it hereby.
(1974 Code, § 18-3-8-5) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-
1999)
§ 153.090 INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE.
   Upon receipt of an application properly filed with the town and upon the
payment of the non-refundable application fee, the town shall cause a check to
be made of whether an applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal act
within the periods set forth in §
153.091(A)(8) and whether there is proper compliance with Health, Fire and
Building Codes and laws. A permit shall be granted or denied within 30 days
from the date of its proper filing. The permit shall state on its face the name
of the person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date and the
address of the sexually oriented business, and it shall be posted in a
conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the business.
(1974 Code, § 18-3-8-6) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-
1999)
§ 153.091 DENIAL OF APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   The town shall deny the application for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   An applicant is under the age of 18 years;
      (2)   An applicant or his or her spouse is overdue on any payment owed to
the town for taxes, fines or penalties assessed in relation to a sexually
oriented business;
      (3)   An applicant is residing with a person who has been denied or had a
permit to operate a sexually oriented business revoked under this subchapter
within the preceding 12 months for any reason other than location;
      (4)   An applicant has failed to provide information required by this
section or has falsely responded to any part of the application form;
      (5)   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business have not
been approved as complying with Town or State Health, Fire and Building Codes;
      (6)   An applicant is in violation of any other provision of the
subchapter, including, but not limited to, the zoning locational requirements
for a sexually oriented business, or any other statute, ordinance or court
order;
      (7)   The application or permit fees required by this section have not
been paid;
      (8)   An applicant has been convicted of a “specified criminal” act for
which:
         (a)   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later date, if the
conviction is for a misdemeanor offense included within A.R.S. Title 13, Chs.
14, 32, 35 or 35.1, or crimes connected with another sexually oriented
business; or
         (b)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later date, if the
conviction is for a felony or for two or more misdemeanor offenses where the
“specified criminal” acts are made criminal within A.R.S. Title 13, Chs. 14,
32, 35 or 35.1, or crimes connected with another sexually oriented business.
      (9)   The fact a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
disqualification of the applicant. An applicant convicted of any of the above
“specified criminal” acts may qualify for a sexually oriented business permit
only when the time period required hereby has elapsed; and/or
      (10)   An applicant knowingly has in his or her employ an employee who
does not have a valid license as required in §
153.099.
   (B)   If the town denies an application, it shall notify the applicant of
the denial and the reason(s) for the same. If a person applies for a particular
location within a period of 12 months from the date of denial of a previous
application, and there has been no intervening change of circumstances which
could reasonably be expected to lead to a different decision, the application
shall be denied.
(1974 Code, § 18-3-8-7) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-
1999)
§ 153.092 ANNUAL PERMIT FEE.
   The annual fee for a sexually oriented business permit is $1,000.
(1974 Code, § 18-3-8-8) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-
1999)
§ 153.093 INSPECTION.
   An applicant shall permit representatives of the town and county to inspect
the premises of a sexually oriented business for the purpose of assuring
compliance with the law at any time business is occupied or open for business.
Refusal to permit the lawful inspection, regardless of whether or not a permit
has been issued under this section, shall be a misdemeanor.
(1974 Code, § 18-3-8-9) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-
1999)
§ 153.094 EXPIRATION OF PERMIT.
   Each permit shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may be
renewed only by making application as provided herein, although in the case of
a renewal at the same location, information unchanged from the initial
application may be so characterized and not repeated. Application for renewal
shall be made 30 days before the expiration date in order for operation to
continue without interruption. In the event of denial or revocation of a
permit, a new permit shall not be issued hereunder until the expiration of one
year from the date of denial or revocation, or from the date of correction of
the reason for denial or revocation if, in its sole discretion, the town so
permits.
(1974 Code, § 18-3-8-10) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-
8-1999)
§ 153.095 SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   The town shall suspend a permit for a period not to exceed 30 days if it
determines that an operator, or an employee of an operator, has:
   (A)   Violated or is not in compliance with any provision of this section;
   (B)   Been under the influence of drugs or alcoholic beverages while working
in the sexually oriented business premises;
   (C)   Refused to allow an inspection of the business premises as authorized
by this section;
   (D)   Negligently permitted the use of alcohol or drugs on the premises by a
customer;
   (E)   Engaged in permit transfer contrary to §
153.098 and, in that event, the suspension shall remain in effect until the
requirements of §
153.098 have been fully met;
   (F)   Operated the sexually oriented business in violation of the hours of
operation set forth in §
153.097; or
   (G)   Knowingly employs a person who does not have a valid license as
required by §
153.099.
(1974 Code, § 18-3-8-11) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-
8-1999)
§ 153.096 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The town shall revoke a permit upon determining that:
      (1)   An operator gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process that tended to enhance the applicant’s
opportunity of obtaining a permit;
      (2)   An operator had knowingly allowed the possession, use or sale of
alcohol or drugs on the premises;
      (3)   An operator has knowingly allowed prostitution or the solicitation
of a sex act to occur on the premises;
      (4)   An operator has operated the sexually oriented business during a
period of time when the permit was under suspension;
      (5)   An operator is convicted of a “specified criminal” act which would
have been grounds for denial of the permit if it had occurred prior to issuance
of a permit;
      (6)   An operator is convicted of tax violations for any taxes or fees
related to a sexually oriented business;
      (7)   An operator knowingly allows any act of sexual intercourse, sodomy,
oral copulation, masturbation or any other specified sexual activities to occur
within or in the parking lot of the permitted premises; and/or
      (8)   A cause for suspension arises and the permit has been suspended
previously within the preceding 12 months.
   (B)   An operator, where the owner or permit holder, shall be presumed to
have constructive notice of any violation of which an employee, custodian,
manager or person in charge may be guilty, regardless of actual notice.
Revocation by the town of a permit shall continue for one year, and an operator
shall not be issued a sexually oriented business permit for one year from the
date a revocation becomes effective. Where deemed appropriate by the town, a
revocation may be terminated upon correction by the operator of the basis for
revocation; provided, at least 90 days have elapsed since the date revocation
became effective.
(1974 Code, § 18-3-8-12) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-
8-1999)
§ 153.097 APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   After denial of an application, whether initial or renewal, and after
suspension or revocation of a permit, the applicant or operator may seek prompt
review of the administrative action through the Town Council. If the
administrative action is affirmed by the Town Council upon review, the
administrative action may be promptly reviewed by the court.
(1974 Code, § 18-3-8-13) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-
8-1999)
§ 153.098 TRANSFER OF PERMIT.
   (A)   An operator shall not operate a sexually oriented business under the
authority of a permit at any place other than the address designated in the
application for permit. An operator shall not transfer his or her permit to
another unless the following requirements are fully met:
      (1)   The permit is amended by the town after receipt of a completed
application from the transferee setting forth the information called for in §
153.090; and
      (2)   A transfer fee of 20% of the annual permit fee is tendered by the
transferee.
   (B)   No permit may be transferred after the town has notified an operator
that suspension or revocation proceedings have been or will be brought against
the operator. Any attempt to transfer a permit in violation of this section is
hereby declared void and the permit shall be deemed revoked.
(1974 Code, § 18-3-8-14) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-
8-1999)
§ 153.099 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEE LICENSE.
   (A)   Each individual employed in a sexually oriented business shall be
licensed by the town upon approval of an application providing the following
information:
      (1)   The applicant’s name, date and place of birth, height, weight, hair
and eye color, permanent residence address and telephone number;
      (2)   State driver’s license number and Social Security number;
      (3)   The applicant’s fingerprints on a form provided by the County
Sheriff’s Department;
      (4)   A statement as to the applicant’s convictions, if any, of a
“specified criminal” act as identified herein; and
      (5)   A statement as to whether applicant has been denied the right to be
employed or continue to be employed in a sexually oriented business in any
other municipality.
   (B)   A license granted pursuant to this section shall be subject to annual
renewal upon written application and finding by the town that the applicant has
not been convicted of any “specified criminal act” as defined by this section
or has not otherwise committed any act during the existence of the previous
license period which would be grounds to deny the license application.
(1974 Code, § 18-3-8-15) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-
8-1999)
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 153.110 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   In order to carry out the purposes of this chapter, the town is hereby
classified into eight zoning districts, as follows:
   (A)   Open Space;
   (B)   Agricultural;
   (C)   Single-Family Residential;
   (D)   Mobile Home Residential;
   (E)   Multiple-Family Residential;
   (F)   Commercial Zone; and
   (G)   Industrial.
(1974 Code, § 18-4-1) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-
1999; Ord. 11-003, passed 7-26-2011)
§ 153.111 LOCATION AND BOUNDARIES OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The locations and boundaries of the zoning districts are established
as they are shown on the map entitled “The Zoning Map of Fredonia” which is
hereby incorporated into this chapter. In the event of a conflict between the
zoning map and any action of the Town Council as reflected in the public
minutes of the same, the Council action shall be controlling.
   (B)   Where uncertainty exists as to the exact boundary of a zoning
district, the following criteria shall apply.
      (1)   Where district boundaries are shown by specific location such as a
lot line or street line or creek bed, these lines shall be deemed to be the
zone boundary. Commercial zones, unless specifically noted on the map, shall be
halfway through the town block.
      (2)   Where the above application of the rules does not clarify the zone
boundary, then the Planning and Zoning Commission shall determine the location.
      (3)   Territory not zoned annexed to the town subsequent to the effective
date of this chapter shall, upon the date the annexation becomes effective,
automatically remain as designated by the county until the time as the Town
Council shall see fit to approve a change of zone request for all or any part
of the annexed area.
      (4)   Where a lot is divided by one or more district boundary lines, the
entire lot shall be deemed to be included in the most restrictive district
classification unless the less restrictive uses have already been established
for a majority of allowable density.
      (5)   On legal substandard depth lots for the district in which it is
located, the front or rear setbacks, except on the street or alley side, may be
reduced three inches for each foot that the lot depth is short of the required
minimum depth for the district, but in no case may the front and rear yards be
reduced to an area of less than 75% of the required minimum.
(1974 Code, § 18-4-2) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-
1999)
§ 153.112 OPEN SPACE ZONE.
   (A)   Purpose. To permit the use of open space land for uses compatible with
the surroundings and to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents
of the town.
   (B)   Allowable uses.
      (1)   The raising of crops, horticulture and gardening;
      (2)   The retention of undeveloped land;
      (3)   Washes, drainage channels, flood control facilities and retaining
dams, geological features not conducive or desirable for development;
      (4)   Public recreation facilities; and
      (5)   Livestock grazing.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Buildings or structures of any type associated with the permitted
use;
      (2)   Churches;
      (3)   Museums;
      (4)   Schools;
      (5)   Parks;
      (6)   Golf courses;
      (7)   Public utilities; and
      (8)   Other uses similar to the above and judged by the Planning and
Zoning Commission to be in harmony with the intent and purpose of this zone.
   (D)   Height requirements. No building or other structure shall be erected
to interfere with solar rights of neighbor.
   (E)   Area, width and yard regulations.
      (1)   Minimum area: one acre;
      (2)   Minimum front setback from property lines: 20 feet; and
      (3)   Minimum side and back yard setback: 15 feet.
(1974 Code, § 18-4-3) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-
1999)
§ 153.113 AGRICULTURAL ZONE.
   (A)   Purpose. To preserve appropriate areas for permanent agricultural use.
Uses normally and necessarily related to agriculture are permitted and uses
hostile or hurtful to the continuance of agricultural activity are not allowed.
Agricultural Zones should be attractively developed, landscaped and maintained
for the benefit of residents and for visitors to the community.
   (B)   Allowable uses.
      (1)   Single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Churches;
      (3)   Livestock feeding;
      (4)   Dairy production;
      (5)   Poultry raising;
      (6)   Household pets;
      (7)   Farm building and uses; and
      (8)   Crop production; and
      (9)   Medical marijuana dispensary offsite cultivation location, subject
to the requirements found in division (F) below.
   (C)   Conditional uses by permit.
      (1)   Group homes;
      (2)   Hog or pork production;
      (3)   Kennels;
      (4)   Veterinarian clinic;
      (5)   Agricultural business;
      (6)   Public utilities;
      (7)   Golf course;
      (8)   Mobile home; and
      (9)   Other uses judged by the Planning and Zoning Commission to be in
harmony with the intent and purpose of the zone.
   (D)   Height requirements. No building or other structure shall be erected
to interfere with solar rights of neighbor.
   (E)   Area, width and yard requirements.
 
District Area     Width    Front   Side    Rear
AG-5     5 acres  200 feet 20 feet 15 feet 15 feet
AG-10    10 acres 200 feet 20 feet 15 feet 15 feet
AG-20    20 acres 200 feet 20 feet 15 feet 15 feet
 
   (F)   Modifying regulations.
      (1)   No agricultural structure housing livestock or fowl shall be
located closer than 50 feet from any residential dwelling or an adjacent lot.
      (2)   No two buildings shall be closer than ten feet.
      (3)   In addition to any other application medical marijuana
requirements, an applicant for any medical marijuana offsite cultivation
location conditional use permit shall provide the following:
         (a)   A notorized authorization executed by the property owner
acknowledging and consenting to the proposed use of the property as a medical
marijuana dispensary or medical marijuana dispensary offsite cultivation
location as applicable.
         (b)   The legal name of the medical marijuana dispensary or medical
marijuana dispensary offsite cultivation location.
         (c)   If the application is for a medical marijuana dispensary offsite
cultivation location the name and location of the medical marijuana dispensary
with which it is associated.
         (d)   The name, address and birth date of each officer and board
member of the nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary.
         (e)   The name, address, birth date and valid registry identification
card number of each nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary agent.
         (f)   A copy of the operating procedures adopted in compliance with
A.R.S. § 36-2804(B)(1)(c).
         (g)   A notarized certification that none of the nonprofit medical
marijuana dispensary officers or board members has been convicted of any of the
following offenses:
            1.   A violent crime as defined in A.R.S. § 13-901.03(B) that was
classified as a felony in the jurisdiction where the person was convicted.
            2.   A violation of state or federal controlled substance law that
was classified as a felony in the jurisdiction where the person was convicted
except an offense for which the sentence including any term of probation,
incarceration or supervised release was completed ten or more years earlier or
an offense involving conduct that would be immune from arrest, prosecution or
penalty under A.R.S. § 23-8161 except that the conduct occurred before the
effective date of that statute or was prosecuted by an authority other than the
state of Arizona.
         (h)   A notarized certification that none of the nonprofit medical
marijuana dispensary officers or board member has served as an officer or board
member for a medical marijuana dispensary that has had its registration
certificate revoked.
         (i)   A floor plan showing the location dimensions and type of
security measures demonstrating that the medical marijuana dispensary offsite
cultivation location will be secured enclosed and locked as required by law.
         (j)   A scale drawing depicting the property lines and the separations
from the nearest property boundary of the parcel containing the medical
marijuana dispensary or medical marijuana dispensary offsite cultivation
location to the property boundary of the parcel containing any existing uses
listed in division (3)(l) below if any of the uses are located within 50 feet
of the minimum separation the drawing showing actual surveyed separations shall
be prepared by a registered land surveyor.
         (k)   A medical marijuana dispensary offsite cultivation location
shall:
            1.   Be located in a permanent building and may not be located in a
trailer, cargo container or motor vehicle.
            2.   Not have drive through service.
            3.   Not emit dust fumes, vapors or odors into the environment.
            4.   Prohibit consumption of marijuana and alcohol on the premises.
            5.   Display a current town business license applicable to medical
marijuana use.
            6.   A medical marijuana dispensary offsite cultivation location
may not be operated as a home business anywhere within the town.
            7.   No person under the agt of 18 shall be allowed in a medical
marijuana dispensary offsite cultivation location.
         (l)   A medical marijuana dispensary or medical marijuana dispensary
offsite cultivation location shall meet the following minimum separations:
            1.   Two-thousand feet from any other medical marijuana dispensary
or medical marijuana dispensary offsite cultivation location.
            2.   Two-thousand feet from a residential substance abuse
diagnostic and treatment facility or other residential drug or alcohol
rehabilitation facility.
            3.   One-thousand feet from a public, private, parochial, charter
dramatic dancing music learning center or other similar school or educational
facility that caters to children.
            4.   One-thousand feet from a childcare center.
            5.   One-thousand feet from a public library or public park.
            6.   One-thousand feet from a church.
            7.   One-thousand feet from a facility devoted to family recreation
or entertainment.
            8.   A medical marijuana dispensary offsite cultivation location
not associated with a medical marijuana dispensary is prohibited and only one
medical marijuana offsite cultivation location shall be permitted for the
single medical marijuana dispensary with which it is associated.
            9.   The number of medical marijuana dispensaries offsite
cultivation location permitted within the town limits shall be limited to two.
The number of medical marijuana dispensaries shall be increased by one for each
town population increase of 5,000 over and above the 2010 census figures for
the town.
(1974 Code, § 18-4-4) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-
1999; Ord. 11-004, passed 10-11-2011)
§ 153.114 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONE.
   (A)   Purpose. To provide appropriate locations where low density
residential neighborhoods may be established, maintained and protected. The
regulations permit, with proper controls, the establishment of public and semi-
public uses such as churches, schools, libraries, parks and playgrounds and
similar facilities which serve the requirements of families. On lots of one-
half acre or larger, the zone gives protection to property owners who may keep
livestock for their own use. The regulations are intended to prohibit those
uses that would be harmful to a single-family residential neighborhood. Deed
restrictions may be used to further limit uses in any zone. Single-Family
Residential Zones should be attractively developed, landscaped and maintained
for the benefit of residents and for visitors to the community.
   (B)   Allowable uses.
      (1)   Single-family dwellings, including permanently erected manufactured
homes. See “manufactured home” and “mobile home” definition;
      (2)   Home gardens, fruit trees, the keeping of household pets but not
the keeping of domestic animals, except as provided herein;
      (3)   Accessory building and uses;
      (4)   In connection with a single-family dwelling on lots of at least
one-half acre, or larger, the keeping of domestic livestock animals for family
or personal use but not on a commercial basis. A corral must not be closer than
50 feet to a residence; and
      (5)   On a lot of one acre or larger, a second dwelling is permitted.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   School;
      (2)   Church;
      (3)   Park or playground;
      (4)   Public utilities and other community facilities;
      (5)   Multiple-family dwelling;
      (6)   Group home: a group home constituting a “residential facility” as
defined in A.R.S. §§ 36-582 and § 501.15 shall be an allowable use under this
section. Other group homes, and particularly those serving troubled youth,
referrals from a state or county correctional authority, substance abusers, or
those with a past history of violent behavior, including sexual violence, shall
require a conditional use permit with such restrictions as may reasonably
contribute to local land use planning in the interest of public health and
safety. It shall in no case be closer than 600 feet from a public school,
church or an establishment that has a bar liquor license in accordance with
A.R.S. § 4-206.01. Complaints from neighbors will be assessed. Group homes
serving elderly people shall be regulated by state statutes; and
      (7)   Any use similar to the above and judged by the Planning and Zoning
Commission to be in harmony with the intent and purpose of the zone.
   (D)   Height requirements. No building or other structure shall be erected
to interfere with solar rights of neighbor.
   (E)   Area, width and yard requirements for single-family dwellings.
 
Minimum District Minimum Square Minimum Lot Lot Depth Front   Side    Rear
                 Ft.            Width
R-1-8            8,000          80 feet     100 feet  20 feet 10 feet 10 feet
R-1-10           10,000         80 feet     100 feet  20 feet 10 feet 10 feet
R-1-12           12,000         80 feet     100 feet  20 feet 10 feet 10 feet
R-1-20           20,000         100 feet    120 feet  20 feet 10 feet 10 feet
R-1-40           40,000         100 feet              20 feet 10 feet 10 feet
R-1-80           80,000         100 feet              20 feet 10 feet 10 feet
 
   (F)   Modifying regulations.
      (1)   On corner lots, the front yard setback on the street side shall not
be less than 20 feet, unless otherwise approved by the Planning and Zoning
Commission, if it determines it will not have an adverse effect on the
community.
      (2)   Private garages and accessory buildings located at least ten feet
from a main dwelling may have a side yard setback of two feet from any interior
lot line, but drainage from roof must fall on owner’s property.
      (3)   To the extent that mobile homes are presently located in the old R-
1-A Zone, they shall be considered non-conforming uses and shall be subject to
provisions and requirements of §
153.035. The only exception hereto shall be in the event of a conditional use
as granted in conformity herewith.
      (4)   No building or structure housing animals or fowl on one-half or one
acre lots shall be located closer than 50 feet to a dwelling unit on an
adjacent lot. Pigs shall not be kept in any non-agricultural zone. Horses shall
be permitted on property zoned residential; provided that, the property is one-
half acre minimum. There is no maximum number of horses permitted, unless
county regulations of density or number apply. Horses shall be for personal use
only; horses used for commercial purposes may only be kept on land zoned for
agricultural use. Horses must be kept a minimum of 50 feet from habitable
dwellings on adjacent lots. If the horse can interfere with or impact the
neighbor’s fence or property, the horse shall be kept a minimum of ten feet
from the property line, unless the neighbor waives his or her right to enforce
this particular requirement, in writing. In order to minimize the negative
impact of odor and pests on neighbors, horse paddocks and corrals must be
maintained a minimum of twice a week.
      (5)   A group home constituting a “residential facility” as defined in
A.R.S. §§ 36-582 et seq. shall be an allowable use under this section. Other
group homes, and particularly those serving troubled youth, referrals from a
state or county correctional authority, substance abusers or those with a past
history of violent behavior, including sexual violence, shall require a
conditional use permit with such restrictions as may reasonably contribute to
local land use planning in the interest of public health and safety. Group
homes serving elderly people shall be regulated by state statutes.
(1974 Code, § 18-4-5) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-
1999; Ord. 11-002, passed 7-12-2011)
§ 153.115 MOBILE HOME ZONE.
   (A)   Purpose. To provide for the development of mobile home subdivisions,
mobile home parks and recreation vehicle parks in a quality environment. Mobile
homes are not intended for the isolated lot, but for placement in parks or
subdivisions. The mobile home parks are designed and intended from the
beginning of development for mobile homes only. Mobile home zones should be
attractively developed, landscaped and maintained for the benefit of residents
and for visitors to the community.
   (B)   Allowable uses.
      (1)   Manufactured homes;
      (2)   Household pets, but not livestock or fowl;
      (3)   Horticulture and gardening for personal use; and
      (4)   Accessory buildings and uses.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Parks and playgrounds;
      (2)   Other uses similar to the above and judged by the Planning and
Zoning Commission to be in harmony with the intent of the zone and similar to
the above listed uses;
      (3)   On lots of one-half acre or larger, the zone gives protection to
property owners who may keep livestock for their own use (see §
153.114); and
      (4)   Temporary mobile home can be hooked to another home up to one
month. Then a conditional use permit must be requested.
   (D)   Height requirements. No building or other structure shall be erected
to interfere with solar rights of neighbor.
   (E)   Mobile home subdivision development standards area, width and yard
requirements.
 
District Square Feet Lot Width Front   Side    Rear
MH-8     8,000       70 feet   20 feet 10 feet 10 feet
MH-10    10,000      80 feet   20 feet 10 feet 10 feet
MH-12    12,000      80 feet   20 feet 10 feet 10 feet
MH-20    1/2 acre    100 feet  20 feet 10 feet 10 feet
MH-40    1 acre      100 feet  20 feet 10 feet 10 feet
 
      (1)   Private garages and accessory buildings located at least ten feet
from any main dwelling may have a side yard setback of two feet from interior
lot lines, but drainage from roof must fall on owner’s property.
      (2)   The requirements relating to the keeping of livestock animals in
the MH-20 and MH-40 Zones shall be the same as found in §
153.114 dealing with the keeping of livestock in Residential Zones.
      (3)   In mobile home subdivisions, all mobile homes shall conform to
applicable codes, shall have copper electrical wiring, shall be structurally
sound, and all doors and windows shall be functional and in good repair. Siding
shall also be in good repair with no unsightly voids or holes. Mobile homes
shall be placed on a foundation or shall be skirted with a quality skirting
material as approved by the Town Building Inspector. A three-foot square
minimum entry porch is required.
      (4)   Restriction on age of mobile homes brought to the town on or after
9-1-2000.
         (a)   Effective 9-1-2000, no mobile home, as defined herein, may be
placed within the Mobile Home Zone or anywhere within town’s boundaries and
occupied as a residence unless the mobile home was first constructed or
assembled no more than 15 years prior to the first date it would be lawfully
occupied as a residence within the town’s boundaries.
         (b)   This division (E)(4) shall not apply to any mobile home that was
lawfully occupied as a residence within the town’s boundaries as of 8-31-2000.
   (F)   Mobile home park development standards.
      (1)   All interior access roads shall be at least 25 feet in width to
serve each mobile home space and parking area.
      (2)   Access to all mobile home parks shall be from a dedicated and
approved public street at an approved access point or points.
      (3)   Parking shall be provided at a ratio of at least two parking spaces
per mobile home.
      (4)   Playground or open space recreation areas shall be provided for
each mobile home park with a minimum of 2,000 square feet and an additional 200
square feet for every mobile home space over ten spaces.
      (5)   Each mobile home space shall have a minimum of 4,500 square feet
and a minimum width of 45 feet.
      (6)   Each mobile home shall have the following minimum yard clearances:
         (a)   Side yard bordering adjacent property: ten feet;
         (b)   Rear yard bordering adjacent property: ten feet; and
         (c)   A six-foot screening barrier shall be erected adjacent to any
existing single-family residential zone.
      (7)   Minimum yard clearances for each mobile home space within the
mobile home park:
         (a)   Front yard on private access street: ten feet;
         (b)   Side yard on main door side of mobile home: 15 feet;
         (c)   Side yard on “no access” side of mobile home: five feet;
         (d)   Rear yard: ten feet;
         (e)   No two mobile homes shall be closer together than ten feet; and
         (f)   All utilities shall be located underground.
      (8)   The minimum size of a mobile home park shall be one acre.
      (9)   Tie down requirements.
   (G)   Recreational vehicle park development standards.
      (1)   Each recreational vehicle park shall have a minimum size of one
acre.
      (2)   Each recreational vehicle park shall be provided with roadways of
at least 25 feet in width for two-way traffic and 15 feet in width for one-way
traffic to serve each recreational vehicle space in the park.
      (3)   Access to all recreational vehicle parks shall be from a dedicated
public street at an approved point or points. No RV unit shall have direct
access to a space from a public street.
      (4)   Off-street parking spaces shall be provided for the parking of each
RV located in the park.
      (5)   Recreation space shall be provided for each RV park at a ratio of
2,000 square feet for ten or less units and an additional 100 square feet for
each additional space provided.
      (6)   Each recreational vehicle space shall have a minimum width of 20
feet and all recreational vehicles shall be able to park in designated spaces
with no portion of a driveway or roadway being used for RV parking.
      (7)   No recreational vehicle shall be parked closer than ten feet to
another recreational vehicle.
      (8)   Minimum yard clearance for a recreational vehicle park:
         (a)   Front yard on a public street: 25 feet;
         (b)   Side yard bordering adjacent property: ten feet;
         (c)   Rear yard bordering adjacent property: ten feet; and
         (d)   A six-foot screening barrier shall be erected along all sides
bordering existing residential subdivision.
      (9)   No mobile or manufactured home shall be located in a recreational
vehicle park, except for an owner’s or manager’s unit that shall be permanently
installed.
      (10)   All RV parks shall contain a service building containing sanitary
facilities, as may be required by the State Department of Environmental Health,
and a dump station for dependent recreational vehicles.
      (11)   The maximum density for an RV park shall be 12 units per acre.
      (12)   All utilities shall be located underground.
(1974 Code, § 18-4-6) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-
1999; Ord. 00-015, passed 7-11-2000)
§ 153.116 COMMERCIAL ZONE.
   (A)   Purpose. The objective of the commercial zone is to provide space of
appropriate locations where various types of commercial businesses offering
goods and services may be provided. Commercial developments should be
attractively developed, landscaped and maintained for the benefit of residents
and for visitors to the community.
   (B)   Allowable uses.
      (1)   Commercial businesses of retail commercial nature;
      (2)   Office and professional businesses;
      (3)   Public buildings;
      (4)   Commercial day care centers; and
      (5)   Residential dwelling, single- or multiple-family.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Public utilities;
      (2)   Parks and recreation areas;
      (3)   A group home constituting a “residential facility”, as defined in
A.R.S. §§ 36-582 et seq., shall be an allowable use under this section provided
it serves six or fewer persons. Other group homes, and particularly those
serving troubled youth, referrals from a state or county correctional
authority, substance abusers or those with a past history of violent behavior,
including sexual violence, shall require a conditional use permit with such
restrictions as may reasonably contribute to local land use planning in the
interest of public health and safety. It shall in no case be closer than 600
feet from a public school, church or an establishment that has a bar liquor
license in accordance with A.R.S. § 4-206.01. Group homes serving elderly
people are regulated by state statutes;
      (4)   Other uses similar to the above and approved by the Planning and
Zoning Commission as being in harmony with the intent and purpose of the zone;
and
      (5)   Sexually oriented businesses (see §§
153.085 through
153.099).
   (D)   Height requirements. No building or other structure shall be erected
to interfere with solar rights of neighbor.
   (E)   Area, width and yard requirements.
      (1)   Minimum setback from front property lines: zero feet, but all
construction must be on own property and comply with Fire Code and drainage
requirements; and
      (2)   Required utility easement: ten feet from back property line and ten
feet from side property line unless a fire wall is constructed.
   (F)   Modifying regulations.
      (1)   All materials and merchandise, except vehicles in running order,
shall be stored in an enclosed building or within an enclosure surrounded by a
sight-obscuring fence or wall of not less than six feet.
      (2)   Business shall provide sufficient off-street parking.
      (3)   In addition to any other application requirements, an applicant for
any medical marijuana dispensary conditional shall provide the following:
         (a)   A notarized authorization executed by the property owner
acknowledging and consenting to the proposed use of the property as a medical
marijuana dispensary or a medical marijuana dispensary offsite cultivation
location a applicable.
         (b)   The legal name of the medical marijuana dispensary or medical
marijuana dispensary offsite cultivation location.
         (c)   If the application is for a medical marijuana dispensary offsite
cultivation location the name and location of the medical marijuana dispensary
with which it is associated.
         (d)   The name, address and birth date of each officer and board
member or the nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary.
         (e)   The name, address, birth date and valid registry identification
card number of each nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary agent.
         (f)   A copy of the operating procedures adopted in compliance with
A.R.S. § 36-2804(B)(1)(c).
         (g)   A notarized certification that none of the nonprofit medical
marijuana dispensary officers or board members has been convicted of any of the
following offenses:
            1.   A violent crime as defined in A.R.S. § 13-901.01(B) that was
classified as a felony in the jurisdiction where the person was convicted.
            2.   A violation of state or federal controlled substance law that
was classified as a felony in the jurisdiction where the person was convicted
except an offense for which the sentence including any term of probation,
incarceration or supervised release was completed ten or more years earlier or
an offense involving conduct that would be immune from arrest, prosecution or
penalty under A.R.S. § 23-8161 except that the conduct occurred before the
effective date of that statute or was prosecuted by an authority other than the
state of Arizona.
         (h)   A notarized certification that none of the nonprofit medical
marijuana dispensary officers or board members has served as an officer or
board member for a medical marijuana dispensary that has had its registration
certificate revoked.
         (i)   A floor plan showing the location, dimensions and type of
security measures demonstrating that the medical marijuana dispensary offsite
location will be secured, enclosed and loced as required by law.
         (j)   A scale drawing depicting the property lines and the separation
from the nearest property boundary of the parcel containing the medical
marijuana dispensary or medical marijuana dispensary offsite cultivation
location to the property boundary of the parcel containing any existing uses
listed in division (3)(l) below. If any of the uses are located within 50 feet
of the minimum separation the drawing showing actual surveyed separations shall
be prepared by a registered land surveyor.
         (k)   A medical marijuana dispensary location shall:
            1.   Be located in a permanent building an may not be located in a
trailer, cargo container or motor vehicle.
            2.   A medical marijuana dispensary shall have operation hours not
earlier tan 9:00 a.m. and not later than 5:00 p.m.
            3.   Not have drive through service.
            4.   Not emit dust fumes vapors into the environment.
            5.   Prohibit consumption of marijuana and alcohol on the premises.
            6.   Display a current town business license applicable to medical
marijuana uses.
            7.   A medical marijuana dispensary location may not be operated as
a home business anywhere within the town.
            8.   No person within under the age of 18 shall be allowed in a
medical marijuana dispensary.
         (l)   A medical marijuana dispensary shall meet the following minimum
separations:
            1.   Two-thousand feet from any other medical marijuana dispensary
or medical marijuana dispensary offsite cultivation location.
            2.   Two-thousand feet from a residential substance abuse
diagnostic and treatment facility or other residential drug or alcohol
rehabilitation facility.
            3.   One-thousand feet from a public, private, parochial, charter
dramatic dancing music learning center or other similar school or educational
facility that caters to children.
            4.   One-thousand feet from a childcare center.
            5.   One-thousand feet from a public library or public park.
            6.   One-thousand feet from a church.
            7.   One-thousand feet from a facility devoted to family recreation
or entertainment.
            8.   The number of medical marijuana dispensaries permitted within
the town limits shall be limited to two. The number of permitted medical
marijuana dispensaries shall be increased by one for each town population
increase of 5,000 over and above the official 2010 census figure for the town.
(1974 Code, § 18-4-8) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-
1999; Ord. 11-002, passed 7-12-2011; Ord. 11-004, passed 10-11-2011)
§ 153.117 INDUSTRIAL ZONE.
   (A)   Purpose. The objective in establishing an Industrial Zone is to
provide employment opportunities within the town, and space for manufacturing,
warehousing, fabrication, wholesaling, service and other similar establishments
in a location compatible with one another and protected from other types of
uses. Industrial uses are to be located with access to a major street, highway
or other means of transportation and the availability of public utilities.
Industrial Zones shall be maintained in a neat, sanitary manner with
appropriate landscaping or fencing for the benefit of residents and visitors to
the community.
   (B)   Allowable uses.
      (1)   Industrial uses of various kinds;
      (2)   Public buildings or facilities; and
      (3)   Public utilities.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Caretaker or security buildings; and
      (2)   Uses similar to the above and judged by the Planning and Zoning
Commission to be in harmony with the intent and purpose of the zone.
      (3)   Medical marijuana dispensary, subject to the requirements found in
division (G) below.
      (4)   Marijuana infusion food establishment, subject to the provisions
found in division (G) below.
         (a)   A notarized authorization executed by the property owner
acknowledging and consenting to the proposed use of the property as a marijuana
food infusion establishment.
         (b)   Shall be located in a permanent building and may not be located
in a trailer, cargo container or motor vehicle.
         (c)   A medical marijuana food infusion establishment shall have
operating hours not earlier than 9:00 a.m. and not later than 5:00 p.m.
         (d)   Shall not emit dust fumes or vapors into the environment.
         (e)   Shall prohibit consumption of marijuana and alcohol on the
premises.
         (f)   Shall display a current town business license applicable to
medical marijuana uses.
         (g)    Shall not be operated as a home business anywhere within the
town.
      (5)   Medical marijuana qualifying patient cultivation location. A
qualifying patient may cultivate at their place of residence subject to
compliance with all applicable law, including applicable health regulations and
any rules promulgated by the Arizona Department of Health and any other
authorized regulatory agency.
      (6)      Medical marijuana designated caregiver cultivation location.
         (a)   All conditions and locations apply except that the restrictions
for medical marijuana dispensaries and off-site cultivation location area is
limited to 250 square feet maximum including any storage area.
         (b)    Any medical marijuana designated caregiver cultivation location
may be required to comply with all applicable law, including applicable health
regulations and any rules and any rules promulgated by the Arizona Department
of Health and any other authorized regulatory agency.
   (D)   Uses specifically excluded. Uses which give rise to excessive or
offensive odor, noise, fumes, dust, radiation or danger of explosion or
contamination.
   (E)   Height requirements. No building or other structure shall be erected
to interfere with solar rights of neighbor.
   (F)   Area, width and yard requirements.
      (1)   Minimum setback from front property line: 25 feet (adjacent to non-
residential) and 100 feet (adjacent to residential);
      (2)   Street side, side yard setback: 20 feet;
      (3)   Side yard setbacks: minimum five feet (if non-residential) and 25
feet (if adjacent to residential); and
      (4)   Rear yard setbacks: ten feet.
   (G)   Modifying regulations.
      (1)   All storage, except vehicles in running order, shall be stored in
an enclosed building or within an enclosure surrounded by a solid fence or wall
of not less than six feet in height and no material or merchandise so stored
shall be stored at a height above the top of the fence or wall.
      (2)   Storage of “junk” partially or completely dismantled automobiles
shall be stored as required in division (G)(1) above.
      (3)   All outside parking areas shall be lighted during evening working
hours.
      (4)   Where any industrial use or zone adjoins a lot in a residential
zone, there shall be a fence constructed along the common property line as
required in division (G)(1) above.
      (5)   In addition to any other application requirements, an applicant for
any medical marijuana dispensary or a medical marijuana dispensary offsite
cultivation location conditional use permit and shall provide the following:
         (a)   A notarized authorization executed by the property owner
acknowledging and consenting to the proposed use of the property as a medical
marijuana dispensary or a medical marijuana dispensary offsite cultivation
location as applicable.
         (b)   The legal name of the medical marijuana dispensary or medical
marijuana dispensary offsite cultivation location.
         (c)   If the application is for a medical marijuana dispensary offsite
cultivation the name and location of the medical marijuana dispensary with
which it is associated.
         (d)   The name, address and birth date of each officer and board
member of the nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary.
         (e)   The name, address, birth date and valid registry identification
card number of each nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary agent.
         (f)   A copy of the operating procedures adopted in compliance with
A.R.S. § 36-2804(B)(1) (c).
         (g)   A notarized certification that none of the nonprofit medical
marijuana dispensary officers or board members has been convicted of any of the
following offenses:
            1.   A violent crime as defined in A.R.S. § 13-901.03(B) that was
classified as a felony in the jurisdiction where the person was convicted.
            2.   A violation of state or federal controlled substance law that
was classified as a felony in the jurisdiction where the person was convicted
except an offense for which the sentence including any term of probation,
incarceration or supervised release was completed ten or more years earlier or
an offense involving conduct that would be immune from arrest, prosecution or
penalty under A.R.S. § 23-8161 except that the conduct occurred before the
effective date of that statute or was prosecuted by an authority other than the
state of Arizona.
         (h)   A notarized certification that none of the nonprofit medical
marijuana dispensary officers or board members has served as an officer or
board member
that has had its registration for a medical marijuana dispensary certificate
revoked.
         (i)   A floor plan showing the location, dimensions and type of
security measures demonstrating that the medical marijuana dispensary offsite
cultivation location will be
secured enclosed and locked as required by law.
         (j)   A scale drawing depicting the property lines and the separations
from the nearest property boundary of the parcel containing the medical
marijuana dispensary or medical marijuana dispensary offsite cultivation
location to the property boundary of the parcel containing any existing uses
listed in division (5)(l) below. If any of the uses are located within 50 feet
of the minimum separation the drawing showing actual surveyed separations shall
be prepared by a registered land surveyor.
         (k)   A medical marijuana dispensary offsite cultivation location
shall:
            1.   Be located in a permanent building and may not be located in a
trailer, cargo container or motor vehicle.
            2.   A medical marijuana dispensary shall have operating hours not
earlier than 9:00 a.m. and not later than 5:00 p.m.
            3.   Not have drive through service.
            4.   Not emit dust fumes, vapors or odors into the environment.
            5.   Prohibit consumption of marijuana and alcohol on the premises.
            6.   Display a current town business license applicable to medical
marijuana uses.
            7.   A medical marijuana dispensary location may not be operated as
a home business anywhere within the town.
            8.   No person under the ago of 18 shall be allowed in a medical
marijuana dispensary.
         (l)   A medical marijuana dispensary or medical marijuana dispensary
offsite cultivation shall meet the following minimum separations:
            1.   Two-thousand feet from any other medical marijuana dispensary
or medical marijuana dispensary offsite cultivation location.
            2.   Two-thousand feet from a residential substance abuse
diagnostic and treatment facility or other, residential drug or alcohol
rehabilitation facility.
            3.   One-thousand feet from a public, private, parochial, charter
dramatic dancing music learning center or other similar school of educational
facility that caters to children.
            4.   One-thousand feet from a childcare center.
            5.   One-thousand feet from a public library or public park.
            6.   One-thousand feet from a church.
            7.   One-thousand feet from a facility devoted to family recreation
or entertainment.
            8.   A medical marijuana dispensary offsite cultivation location
not associated with a medical marijuana dispensary is prohibited and only one
medical marijuana dispensary offsite cultivation location shall be permitted
for the single medical marijuana dispensary with which it is associated.
            9.   The number of medical marijuana dispensaries permitted within
the town limits shall be limited to two. The number of permitted medical
marijuana dispensaries shall be increased by one for each town population
increase of 5,000 over and above the official 2010 census figure for the town.
   (H)   Industrial park plan.
      (1)   Purpose. The objective in establishing the Industrial Zone is to
provide space for warehousing, light manufacturing, fabrication, wholesaling,
service and other similar commercial establishments which are combined with
manufacturing or warehousing uses and to locate these establishments in a
location compatible with one another and where they are convenient to the other
commercial and industrial zones in the town. In addition, these regulations
seek to preserve healthy air and water qualities and visual esthetics for the
benefit of the residents of the area, and in no part will contradict existing
county, state or federal regulations.
      (2)   Permitted, conditional and prohibited uses.
         (a)   Permitted and conditional uses.
            1.   In the following list of possible uses, those designated in
any zone as “P” will be a permitted use. Uses designated by the letter “C” are
allowed as a conditional use. If they are not designated, they are not
permitted, except as may be otherwise approved by the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
Automobile repair shop                                                   P
Automobile storage yard, not salvage yards                               C
Caretaker’s dwelling, incidental to the use of the land for industrial P
purposes
Carpenter, electrical, plumbing or heating shops                         P
Concrete mixing and batching plants                                      C
Dry cleaning plant                                                       P
Farm and construction equipment sales, rental and service                P
Feed, cereal or flour mill                                               C
Fertilizer and soil conditioner                                          P
Food processing wholesale, excluding fish, meat, vinegar, yeast and fat  C
Foundry, lightweight casting, non-ferrous without noxious odors or fumes C
Furniture upholstery shop                                                P
Honey extraction and processing                                          C
Ice manufacturing and storage                                            P
Insulation sales and service                                             P
Knitting mill                                                            P
Livestock feed processing and storage                                    C
Machine shop general                                                     P
Manufacturing establishments                                             P
Pest control and extermination                                           P
Planing mill                                                             P
Plumbing shop                                                            P
Printing                                                                 P
Publishing or lithography shops                                          P
Rubber welding                                                           C
Sandblasting                                                             C
Seed and feed store retail                                               P
Sheet metal                                                              P
Sign manufacture or sign painting                                        P
Storage rental units                                                     C
Testing laboratory                                                       C
Tire recapping or retreading                                             C
Truck sales and repair                                                   P
Truck terminal                                                           P
Warehouse storage                                                        P
Welding shop                                                             P
 
            2.   Other uses similar to the above and judged by the Planning and
Zoning Commission to be in harmony with the intent and purpose of the zone.
         (b)   Prohibited uses. The following uses shall be excluded from the
county, animal byproducts plants; blast furnaces, offal and animal reduction,
incineration or processing; manufacturing, compounding or processing of
chlorine gas, acid, cement, lime, gypsum, plaster of Paris, creosote,
fertilizer from animal byproducts, pyroxylene rubber reduction; processing or
treatment of fish; and similar uses which give rise to excessive or offensive
odor, noise, fumes, dust, radiation, danger of explosion, or other hazardous
waste of any type.
      (3)   Site development standards.
         (a)   Minimum lot area: 0.75 acre;
         (b)   Setbacks (in feet):
            1.   Front: 25;
            2.   Side: 25;
            3.   Street side: 25; and
            4.   Rear: 25.
         (c)   Minimum zone area: 30 acres; and
         (d)   Site plan approval.   
            1.   A site plan shall be submitted, drawn to scale and of
sufficient size and detail to show building locations, yard setbacks, ingress
and egress drives, parking areas, landscaped areas and other improvements as
may be required relating to the specific use proposed.
            2.   The site plan, or an additional plan drawn to the same scale,
shall show utility locations, including water, power, telephone, cable TV,
sewer or septic tank locations, fire hydrants, street improvements and other
public improvements as may be required.
            3.   Planning and Zoning Commission review and approval shall
precede the issuance of any building permit for site improvements, or
construction permit for utility systems.
      (4)   Special provisions.
         (a)   Storage of materials and merchandise. All storage and
merchandise shall be stored in an enclosed building or within an enclosure
surrounded by a sight obscuring fence or wall of not less than six feet in
height, and no material or merchandise shall be stored to a height greater than
that of the enclosing fence or wall.
         (b)   Junk. Storage of “junk” or partially or completely dismantled
automobiles shall be enclosed within a sight obscuring wall or fence of not
less than six feet in height, and material so stored shall be kept below the
height of the fence or wall.
         (c)   Solid waste storage facilities. Solid waste storage facilities
shall be located at the rear of the main building or else behind a sight
obscuring fence or wall which will prevent the facility from being seen from a
public street.
         (d)   Protection of adjoining residential property or highway
frontage. Where any Industrial Zone adjoins any lot in a residential zone,
there shall be provided and maintained along the property line a decorative
sight obscuring fence or wall, or a ten-foot wide planting strip, or any
combination of fencing and landscaping, which, in the opinion of the Planning
and Zoning Commission, will adequately protect the adjoining residential
property or enhance the visual impact from the adjoining highway.
         (e)   Parking spaces required for non-residential areas.
Notwithstanding all provisions of this section, all commercial, industrial and
professional developments and all other non-residential uses of land shall
provide sufficient off-street parking for all employees, business vehicles and
equipment, customers, clients and patients of the business, industry or
professionally used property, as may be required by the Planning and Zoning
Commission in addition to spaces presently required by this title. No on-street
parking will be allowed.
         (f)   Lighting. All outside parking areas shall be lighted during
evening work hours. All lights shall be down-casted, and directed away from
residential and highway areas. Lights shall not be of an intensity that
obstructs or interferes with local resident’s enjoyment of the night sky. A
small light shall be permitted for the purposes of illuminating the U.S. flag.
         (g)   Utilities and fire protection.
            1.   All developments shall be served by a source of culinary
water, sewer or septic tank, as may be approved by the Southwest District
Public Health Department, electrical power from a power company whose area of
service covers the proposed business site location, and adequate water for fire
protection as required by
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances.
            2.   Where utility companies are involved in providing these
services, a letter shall be submitted from each company along with the site
plan required in this chapter.
         (h)   Hours of operation. The Planning and Zoning Commission may
establish hours of operation in order to eliminate excess noise, lighting or
other nuisances.
         (i)   Dumping or disposal. The use of land for the dumping or disposal
of scrap iron, junk, rubbish or other refuse, or of ashes or other industrial
waste or byproduct, shall be prohibited in every zoning district unless
otherwise provided in this title.
(1974 Code, § 18-4-9) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-
1999; Ord. passed 3-25-2008; Ord. 11-004, passed 10-11-2011)
§ 153.118 SUBDIVISIONS.
   All subdivisions must comply with
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances.
(1974 Code, § 18-4-10) (Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-
1999)
SAMPLE FORMS
§ 153.130—153.136 RESERVED.
§ 153.137 ZONING MAP.
   See map on file at town offices.
(Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-1999)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   It is hereby declared to be unlawful to construct, erect,
install, alter, change, maintain or use any house, building, structure or
fence, or to use any lot or premises, contrary to or in violation of any
provision of this chapter. Any firm, person or corporation violating any of the
provisions of the zoning ordinance of the town may be guilty of a class 1
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a not more than
90-days’ imprisonment in the town jail or by a fine of not more than $300, or
by both the fine and imprisonment. Every person, firm or corporation shall
receive a warning letter of non-compliance. He, she or it shall have 90 days to
resolve the problem either comply with the ordinance or seek a variance, or
conditional use permit.
      (2)   After 90 days, every person, firm or corporation shall be deemed
guilty of a separate offense for each and every day in which the violation is
committed, continued or permitted, and shall be punished therefor as herein
before provided in this section.
(1974 Code, § 18-1-7)
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation whether acting as owner or occupant of
the premises involved or contractor or otherwise who violates or refuses to
comply with any of the provisions of §§
153.050 through
153.056 shall be guilty of a class 2 misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be
deemed to be committed on each day an offense occurs or continues.
(1974 Code, § 306)
   (C)   (1)   A person commits a misdemeanor if he or she operates or causes
to be operated a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether a permit has
been issued for the business under §§
153.085 through
153.099, and knowingly or reasonably should have known that any of the
following has been permitted or allowed:
         (a)   A person under 18 years of age has been admitted to or allowed
to purchase goods or services without the specific consent of that parent or
guardian. No person under that age shall work at the business premises; and/or
         (b)   No materials, products or performances available in a sexually
oriented business shall be displayed or otherwise exhibited in any advertising
which is visible outside the premises. This prohibition shall not apply to
advertising which is merely declaratory of the existence or location of the
sexually oriented business.
      (2)   All off-street parking areas and premises entries of a sexually
oriented business shall be illuminated from dusk to closing hours of operation
with a lighting system which provides an average maintained horizontal
illumination of one footcandle of light on the parking surface and/or walkways,
in order to aid in the personal safety of patrons and employees and to reduce
the incidence of vandalism and criminal conduct.
      (3)   No portion of the interior premises of a sexually oriented business
shall be visible from outside the premises.
      (4)   No sexually oriented business shall remain open for business, nor
shall sales be solicited or made, between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m.
of any particular day.
      (5)   No person shall perform any function for a fee or be otherwise
employed in any manner on the premises of a sexually oriented business without
having that license required hereby in current good standing.
      (6)   Noone shall distribute, sell or offer to sell, for commercial
purposes, any device, instrument or paraphernalia designed or marketed
primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for sadomasochistic use or
abuse of themselves or others. The devices, instruments or paraphernalia shall
include, but not be limited to, phallic-shaped vibrators, dildos, muzzles,
whips, chains, non-medical enema kits, body piercing implements (excluding
earrings or other decorative jewelry), or devices intended primarily for the
infliction of pain.
      (7)   All requirements and restrictions of this section and any
applicable laws of the state shall be fully complied with at all times.
      (8)   In addition to those penalties provided by state statute for a
misdemeanor, if any person fails or refuses to obey or comply with or violates
any of the prohibitions or criminal provisions of this section, the town may
take other lawful action in any court of competent jurisdiction as is necessary
to prevent or remedy any violation or non-compliance. The other lawful actions
shall include, but not be limited to, an equitable action for injunctive relief
or an action at law for damages.
      (9)   All remedies and penalties provided for in this section shall be
cumulative and independently available to the town. Each violation or non-
compliance shall be considered as a separate offense.
(1974 Code, § 18-3-8-16)
(Res. 99-016, passed 9-8-1999; Ord. 99-002, passed 9-8-1999; Res. 07-001,
passed 2-13-2007; Ord. 07-001, passed 4-24-2007)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ENTERPRISE ZONES
      
II.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
      
III.   STREET CLOSINGS; NAME CHANGES
TABLE I: ENTERPRISE ZONES
 
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
R. 99-018 10-13-1999  Approving the renewal of the Coconino County Enterprise
                      Zone and its boundaries
R. 00-039 2-8-2000    Approving the renewal of the Coconino County Enterprise
                      Zone and amended boundaries
R. 03-010 10-14-2003  Authorizing the application to the state for the renewal
                      of enterprise zone status for the town
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
                      Approving the transfer of the cable television franchise
R. 02-001 3-26-2002   with Peak Cablevision, L.L.C., to Precis Communications,
                      L.L.C.
                      Approving the transfer of the cable television franchise
R. 08-003 1-22-2008   with Precis Communications, L.L.C., to South Central
                      Communications
 
TABLE III: STREET CLOSINGS; NAME CHANGES
 
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
R. 99-008 7-22-1999   Vacating South Street; acceptance of First East Street;
                      acceptance of 20-foot utility easement
R. 04-004 7-13-2004   Changing the name of Woodhill Road to Joy Jordan Woodhill
                      Trail
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Arizona Revised Statutes
References to 1974 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ARIZONA REVISED STATUTES
A.R.S. Cites Code Section
A.R.S. Cites              Code Section
1-211—1-215             10.05
4-206.01                  153.114;
                          153.116
Title 9, Ch. 4, Art. 6.2  152.001
Title 9, Art. 6           152.003
Title 9, Art. 6.1         152.003
Title 9, Art. 6.2         152.003
9-240                     10.19
9-240(B)(7)               Ch. 32
9-240(B)(28)(b)           10.99
9-801 et seq.             Ch. 151
Title 12, Ch. 7, Art. 6   95.12
Title 13                  130.99
Title 13, Ch. 14          153.091
Title 13, Ch. 32          153.091
Title 13, Ch. 35          153.091
Title 13, Ch. 35.1        153.091
13-901.01(B)              153.116
13-901.03(B)              153.113;
                          153.117
13-1604                   93.13
13-3101(A)(1)             130.28
13-3102(C)                130.28
                          153.113;
23-8161                   153.116;
                          153.117
Title 28, Ch. 1           130.32
28-101                    72.07
28-1591—28-1601         130.32
28-1598                   10.99
28-2801(5)                153.007
Title 32                  93.07
Title 32, Ch. 10          110.03
Title 32, Ch. 20, Art. 6. 93.01
32-2194.20                93.02
32-2194.28                93.05
32-2194.33                93.07
33-1201 et seq.           153.007
36                        152.076
36-183.04                 95.01,
                          95.12
36-184(B)(3)              95.01
36-582 et seq.            153.114—
                          153.116
36-2804                   153.007
                          153.113;
36-2804(B)(1)(c)          153.116;
                          153.117
36-2806(E)                153.007
38-260                    30.026
38-348                    93.05
38-431.01                 93.02
38-431.02                 93.02
39-101 et seq.            52.091
39-121—39-161           50.71
Title 40, Ch. 4, Art. 3   110.03
                          
 
REFERENCES TO 1974 CODE
1974 Code 2012 Code
1974 Code 2012 Code
2-1-1     30.020
2-1-2     30.021
2-1-3     30.022
2-1-4     30.023
2-1-5     30.024
2-1-6     30.025
2-1-7     30.026
2-1-8     30.027
2-2-1     30.001
2-2-2     30.002
2-2-3     30.003
2-2-4     30.004
2-2-5     30.005
2-2-6     30.006
2-3-1     30.040
2-3-2     30.041
2-3-3     30.042
2-3-4     30.043
2-3-5     30.044
2-4-1     30.060
2-4-2     30.061
2-4-3     30.062
2-4-4     30.063
2-4-5     30.064
2-4-6     30.065
2-4-7     30.066
2-4-8     30.067
2-4-9     30.068
2-5-1     30.080
2-5-2     30.081
2-5-3     30.082
2-5-4     30.083
2-5-5     30.084
2-5-6     30.085
2-5-7     30.086
2-5-8     30.087
2-5-9     30.088
3-1-1     31.01
3-1-2     31.02
3-1-3     31.03
3-1-4     31.04
3-1-5     31.05
3-1-6     31.06
3-1-7     31.07
3-2-1     31.20
3-2-2     31.21
3-2-3     31.22
3-2-4     31.23
3-2-5     31.24
4-1-1     32.15
4-1-2     32.16
4-1-3     32.17
4-1-4     32.18
4-1-5     32.19
4-1-6     32.20
4-2-1     32.35
4-2-2     32.36
4-2-3     32.37
4-2-4     32.38
4-2-5     32.39
4-2-6     32.40
4-2-7     32.41
4-2-8     32.42
4-2-9     32.43
4-2-10    32.44
4-2-11    32.45
4-2-12    32.46
4-2-13    32.47
4-2-14    32.48;
          32.99
Art. 4-4  32.02
Art. 4-5  32.03
Art. 5-1  34.01
5-2-1     34.02
5-2-2     34.03
Art. 5-3  34.04
Art. 5-4  34.05
6-1-1     94.001
6-1-2     94.002
6-1-3     94.003
6-1-4     94.004
6-1-5     94.005
6-1-6     94.006;
          94.999
6-1-7     94.007
6-1-8     94.008
6-2-1     94.020
6-2-2     94.021
6-2-3     94.022
6-2-4     94.023
6-2-5     94.024
6-2-6     94.025
6-2-7     94.026
6-2-8     94.027
6-2-9     94.028
6-2-10    94.029
6-3-1     94.040
6-3-2     94.041
6-3-3     94.042
6-3-5     94.044
6-3-6     94.045;
          94.999
6-4-1     94.060;
          94.061
6-4-2     94.062
6-4-3     94.063
6-4-4     94.064
6-4-5     94.065
6-4-6     94.066
6-4-7     94.067
6-4-8     94.068
6-4-9     94.069
6-4-10    94.999
6-5-1     94.080
7-1-1     151.01
7-1-2     151.02
Art. 7-2  151.03
Art. 7-3  151.04
Art. 7-4  151.05
Art. 7-5  151.06
Art. 7-6  151.07
8-1-1     111.01
8-1-2     111.02
8-1-3     111.03
8-1-4     111.04
8-1-5     111.05
8-1-6     111.06
8-1-7     111.07
8-1-8     111.08
8-2-1     110.01
8-2-2     110.02
8-2-3     110.03
8-2-4     110.04
8-2-5     110.05
8-2-6     110.06
8-2-7     110.07
8-3-1     110.20
8-3-2     110.21
8-3-3     110.22
8-3-4     110.23
8-3-5     110.24
8-3-6     110.25
8-3-7     110.26
8-4-1     112.01
8-4-2     112.02
8-4-3     112.03
8-4-4     112.04
8-4-5     112.05
9-1-1     92.01
9-1-2     92.02
9-1-3     92.03
9-1-4     92.04
9-1-5     92.05
9-1-6     92.06
9-2-1     92.20
9-2-2     92.21
9-2-3     92.22
9-2-4     92.23
9-2-5     92.24
9-2-6     92.25
9-2-7     92.26
9-2-8     92.27
9-2-9     92.28
9-2-10    92.29
9-2-11    92.30
9-2-12    92.31
9-3-1     92.45
10-1-1    130.01
10-1-2    130.02
10-1-3    130.03
10-1-4    130.04
10-1-5    130.05
10-1-7    130.07
10-1-8    130.08
10-1-10   130.09
10-1-13   130.11
10-1-14   130.12
10-1-15   130.13
10-1-16   130.14
10-1-17   130.15
10-1-18   130.16
10-1-19   130.17
10-1-21   130.18
10-1-24   130.20
10-1-25   130.21
10-1-27   130.23
10-1-28   130.24
10-1-29   130.25
10-1-30   130.26
10-1-31   130.27
10-1-32   130.28
10-1-33   130.29
10-1-34   130.30
10-1-35   130.31
11-a-1    52.085
11-a-2    52.086
11-a-3    52.087
11-a-4    52.088
11-a-5    52.089
11-a-6    52.090
11-a-7    52.091
11-a-8    52.092
11-a-9    52.999
11-1-1    52.001
11-2-1    52.015
11-2-2    52.016
11-3-1    52.030
11-3-2    52.031
11-3-3    52.032
11-3-4    52.033
11-3-5    52.034
11-4-1    52.045
11-4-2    52.046
11-4-3    52.047
11-4-4    52.048
11-4-5    52.049
11-4-6    52.050
11-4-7    52.051
11-4-8    52.052
11-4-9    52.053
11-4-10   52.054
11-5-1    52.065
11-5-2    52.066
11-5-3    52.067
11-5-4    52.068
11-5-5    52.069
11-5-6    52.070
11-5-7    52.071
12-1-1    70.01
12-1-2    70.02
12-1-3    70.03
12-1-4    70.04
12-1-5    70.05
12-2-1    71.01
12-2-2    71.02
12-2-3    71.03
12-2-4    71.04;
          71.14
12-2-5    71.05
12-2-6    71.06
12-2-7    71.07
12-2-8    71.08
12-2-9    71.09
12-2-10   71.10
12-2-11   71.11
12-2-12   71.12
12-2-13   71.13
12-2-15   71.15;
          71.99
12-3-1    72.01
12-3-2    72.02
12-3-3    72.03
12-3-4    72.04
12-3-5    72.05
12-3-6    72.06
12-3-7    72.07
13-1-1    51.001
13-1-2    51.002
13-2-1    51.015
13-2-2    51.016
13-2-3    51.017
13-3-1    51.030
13-3-2    51.031
13-4-1    51.045
13-4-2    51.046
13-5-1    51.060
13-5-2    51.061
13-5-3    51.062
13-5-4    51.063
13-5-5    51.064
13-5-6    51.065
13-5-7    51.066
13-6-1    51.080
13-6-2    51.081
13-6-3    51.082
13-6-4    51.083
13-6-5    51.084
13-6-6    51.085
13-6-7    51.086
13-6-8    51.087
13-7-1    51.100
13-7-2    51.101
13-7-3    51.102
13-7-4    51.103
13-7-5    51.104
13-7-6    51.105
13-7-7    51.106
13-7-8    51.107
13-7-9    51.108
13-7-10   51.109
13-8-1    51.120
13-8-2    51.121
13-9-1    51.135
14-1-1    152.001
14-1-2    152.002
14-1-3    152.003
14-2-1    152.004
14-2-2    152.005
14-2-3    152.006
14-2-4    152.007
14-2-5    152.008
14-2-6    152.009
14-3-1    152.020
14-3-2    152.021
14-3-3    152.022
14-3-4    152.023
14-3-5    152.024
14-3-6    152.025
14-3-7    152.026
14-3-8    152.027
14-3-9    152.028
14-3-10   152.029
14-3-11   152.030
14-3-12   152.031
14-4-1    152.045
14-4-2    152.046
14-4-3    152.047
14-4-4    152.048
14-4-5    152.049
14-4-6    152.050
14-4-7    152.051
14-4-8    152.052
14-4-9    152.053
14-4-10   152.054
14-4-11   152.055
14-4-12   152.056
14-4-13   152.057
14-4-14   152.058
14-5-1    152.070
14-5-2    152.071
14-5-3    152.072
14-5-4    152.073
14-5-5    152.074
14-5-6    152.075
14-5-7    152.076
14-5-9    152.077
14-5-10   152.078
14-6-1    152.090
14-6-2    152.999
15-1-1    50.01
15-1-2    50.02
15-1-3    50.03
15-2-1    50.15
15-2-2    50.16
15-2-3    50.17
15-3-1    50.30
15-3-2    50.31
15-3-3    50.32
15-3-4    50.33
15-3-5    50.34
15-4-1    50.45
15-4-2    50.46
15-4-3    50.47
15-5-1    50.60
15-5-2    50.61
15-5-3    50.62
15-5-4    50.63
15-5-5    50.64
15-5-6    50.65
15-6-1    50.99
Ch. 16    33.01
Ch. 17    33.01
18-1-1    153.001
18-1-2    153.002
18-1-3    153.003
18-1-4    153.004
18-1-6    153.005
18-1-7    153.999
18-1-8    153.006
18-2-1    153.020
18-2-2    153.021
18-2-3    153.022
18-2-4    153.023
18-3-1    153.035
18-3-2    153.036
18-3-3    153.037
18-3-4    153.038
18-3-5    153.039
18-3-7    153.070—
          153.073
18-3-8-1  153.085
18-3-8-2  153.086
18-3-8-3  153.087
18-3-8-4  153.088
18-3-8-5  153.089
18-3-8-6  153.090
18-3-8-7  153.091
18-3-8-8  153.092
18-3-8-9  153.093
18-3-8-10 153.094
18-3-8-11 153.095
18-3-8-12 153.096
18-3-8-13 153.097
18-3-8-14 153.098
18-3-8-15 153.099
18-3-8-16 153.999
18-4-1    153.110
18-4-2    153.111
18-4-3    153.112
18-4-4    153.113
18-4-5    153.114
18-4-6    153.115
18-4-8    153.116
18-4-9    153.117
18-4-10   153.118
18-5-1    153.007
Art. 19A. 91.01
Art. 19B. 91.02
Art. 19C. 91.03
Art. 19D. 91.04
Art. 19E. 91.05
Art. 19F. 91.06
Art. 19G. 91.07
Art. 19H. 91.08
Art. 19I. 91.09
Art. 19J. 91.10
          153.050—
306       153.056;
          153.999
          
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Description
Res. No. Date Passed Description
98-001   5-13-1998   35.01
98-004   5-13-1998   35.01
99-008   7-22-1999   TSO Table III
99-012   8-3-1999    33.01
99-015   9-8-1999    33.01
                     153.001—
                     153.007;
                     153.020—
                     153.023;
                     153.035—
                     153.039;
99-016   9-8-1999    153.070—
                     153.073;
                     153.085—
                     153.099;
                     153.110—
                     153.118;
                     153.137;
                     153.999
                     52.085—
99-017   10-13-1999  52.092;
                     52.999
99-018   10-13-1999  TSO Table I
99-023   12-8-1999   33.01
99-026   12-23-1999  91.01—
                     91.10
99-027   12-23-1999  91.01—
                     91.10
00-034   1-25-2000   32.49
00-035   1-25-2000   33.01
00-036   1-25-2000   35.01
00-039   2-8-2000    TSO Table I
01-007   11-13-2001  35.01
02-001   3-26-2002   TSO Table II
02-002   3-26-2002   113.01
                     50.01—
                     50.03;
                     50.15—
                     50.17;
                     50.30;
                     50.31;
02-006   8-13-2002   50.33;
                     50.34;
                     50.46;
                     50.47;
                     50.60—
                     50.65;
                     50.99
03-001   1-14-2003   94.060—
                     94.069
03-003   4-8-2003    94.080
03-005   4-8-2003    35.01
03-010   10-14-2003  TSO Table I
03-012   12-9-2003   130.28
04-004   7-13-2004   TSO Table III
05-002   1-25-2005   150.01
05-007   9-13-2005   36.03
06-003   5-23-2006   35.01
06-006   12-12-2006  35.01
                     153.050—
07-001   2-13-2007   153.056;
                     153.999
08-001   1-22-2008   36.02
08-003   1-22-2008   TSO Table II
09-004   10-27-2009  35.01
11-007   7-12-2010   36.01
11-004   4-12-2011   90.01
14-003   3-11-2014   90.01
2014-002 4-8-2014    33.01
2014-004 4-15-2014   36.04
2015-002 4-14-2015   90.01
15-005   11-10-2015  36.01
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        - -         35.01
17       - -         31.20
98-001   5-13-1999   35.01
99-001   8-3-1999    33.01
                     153.001 
                     153.007;
                     153.020 
                     153.023;
                     153.035 
                     153.039;
99-002   9-8-1999    153.070 
                     153.073;
                     153.085 
                     153.099;
                     153.110 
                     153.118;
                     153.137;
                     153.999
                     52.085 
99-003   10-13-1999  52.092;
                     52.999
99-004   11-10-1999  32.48;
                     32.99
99-005   11-10-1999  33.01
99-006   1-25-2000   91.01 
                     91.10
99-007   1-25-2000   91.01 
                     91.10
                     32.03;
00-008   1-25-2000   32.35 
                     32.39;
                     32.47
00-011   1-25-2000   33.01
00-012   1-25-2000   35.01
00-013   4-11-2000   30.001;
                     30.020
00-014   7-11-2000   92.06
00-015   7-11-2000   153.115
01-001   3-27-2001   94.045;
                     94.999
01-002   11-27-2001  35.01
                     50.01 
                     50.03;
                     50.15 
                     50.17;
                     50.30;
                     50.31;
02-001   8-13-2002   50.33;
                     50.34;
                     50.46;
                     50.47;
                     50.60 
                     50.65;
                     50.99
03-001   4-8-2003    94.060 
                     94.069
03-002   4-8-2003    94.080
03-003   4-8-2003    35.01
                     95.01 
04-001   6-22-2004   95.17;
                     95.99
04-002   10-26-2004  34.03;
                     34.05
04-003   11-23-2004  71.15;
                     71.99
04-004   11-23-2004  94.042
05-002   10-11-2005  31.35 
                     31.38
06-001   1-24-2006   130.11
06-002   5-23-2006   35.01
06-003   12-12-2006  35.01
                     153.050 
07-001   4-24-2007   153.056;
                     153.999
-        3-25-2008   153.117
09-002   10-27-2009  35.01
11-002   7-12-2011   153.114;
                     153.116
11-003   7-26-2011   153.110
11-001   8-9-2011    36.01
                     153.007;
11-004   10-11-2011  153.113;
                     153.116;
                     153.117
12-003   8-8-2012    52.999
12-004   8-8-2012    91.09
                     130.04;
12-005   8-8-2012    152.023;
                     152.049
12-006   8-8-2012    130.15
12-007   8-8-2012    130.13
12-008   8-8-2012    110.24
13-001   2-26-2013   32.01 ,
                     153.020
13-002   11-12-2013  31.20
13-003   10-8-2013   34.05  
                     34.07
                     32.99 ,
                     94.999 ,
                     130.01  
                     130.05 ,
                     130.07  
                     130.09 ,
                     130.11  
13-004   10-8-2013   130.14 ,
                     130.16  
                     130.18 ,
                     130.20 ,
                     130.21 ,
                     130.23  
                     130.31 ,
                     130.99
13-006   1-14-2014   30.001 ,
                     30.020
14-001   7-8-2014    94.044
14-002   7-8-2014    130.32
15-001   1-27-2015   93.01 
                     93.13
15-002   7-14-2015   34.02
                     151.01,
15-003   7-14-2015   151.03 
                     151.05
                     50.01 
                     50.03,
                     50.15 
                     50.17,
                     50.30 
15-004   11-24-2015  50.34,
                     50.45 
                     50.47,
                     50.60 
                     50.67,
                     50.99
15-005   12-22-2015  94.043
2017-002 4-11-2017   94.080
2017-004 5-23-2017   93.08
2017-005 8-8-2017    50.16
2018-001 6-19-2018   110.27,
                     110.28
                     50.17,
2018-002 6-19-2018   50.31,
                     51.016,
                     51.046
2021-001 8-24-2021   50.70—
                     50.73
2021-002 12-28-2021  130.33
2022-002 5-3-2022    31.20—
                     31.22
2022-003 5-3-2022    152.004
                    
 
