PAGE, ARIZONA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-24 Supplement contains:
Local legislation passed through Ord. 742-25, passed 6-11-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 630-16
AN ORDINANCE OF THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF PAGE, COCONINO
COUNTY, ARIZONA, ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF PAGE, REVISING,
AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF
ORDINANCES.
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Arizona empower and
authorize the Mayor and City Council to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
   WHEREAS, the Mayor and City Council has authorized a general compilation,
revision and codification of the ordinances of the City of Page of a general
and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in book form.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
PAGE, COCONINO COUNTY, ARIZONA, as follows:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the City of Page as revised, amended,
restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and shall
constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Page, Coconino County,
Arizona."
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   10.   General Code Construction; General Penalty
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   30.   Mayor and Council
   31.   City Organizations
   32.   Policies and Procedures
   33.   Officials and Employees
   34.   Magistrate
   35.   Police, Fire, Ambulance
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   50.   Trash, Rubbish or Garbage, and Recyclable and/or Hazardous Materials
Collection
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   70.   Administration
   71.   Traffic Control
   72.   Parking
   73.   Dynamic Braking Device
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   90.   Animals
   91.   Health; Nuisances
   92.   Fire Code; Fireworks
   93.   Parks and Recreation
   94.   Solid Fuel-Burning Devices
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   110.   General Provisions
   111.   Business Registration and Regulation
   112.   Solicitors
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   130.   Offenses
   131.   Graffiti
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   150.   Buildings
   151.   Airport
   152.   Zoning Code
   153.   Floodplain Management
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   I.   Zoning Map Changes
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Arizona Revised Statutes
References to 1976 Code
References to Ordinances
INDEX
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting
or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or
setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal
affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to
subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its approval
by the Mayor and City Council and the Clerk of the City of Page is hereby
authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in the Office
of the Clerk.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect on its effective date,
and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained, and that the same is properly signed, attested, recorded, and
approved and that any notices thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of
this ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the
decision of a court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions thereof.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE MAJOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF PAGE,
COCONINO COUNTY, ARIZONA this 11th day of January, 2017, by the following vote:
      Ayes       7
      Nays       0
      Abstentions    0
      Absent       0
                           CITY OF PAGE
                           by  /s/
                              Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/
CITY CLERK
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
/s/
CITY ATTORNEY
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to chapters and sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; calculation of time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Conflicting provisions
   
10.18   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.19   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall
constitute and be designated “The Code of the City of Page, Arizona”, and may
be so cited. The code may also be cited as “The Page City Code” or “this code”.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The rules and the definitions set forth in this chapter shall be
observed in the construction of this code and the ordinances of the city,
unless the construction would be inconsistent with either the manifest intent
of the Council or the context of this code or the ordinances of the city.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required,
the same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. All words and phrases shall be construed and understood
according to the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words
and phrases and others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning
in the law shall be construed and understood according to the peculiar and
appropriate meaning.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACTS BY AGENTS. When an ordinance requires an act to be done which may by
law as well be done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be
construed to include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Page, Arizona.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNCIL. The Council of the City of Page, Arizona.
      COUNTY. Coconino County, Arizona.
      DAY. The period of time between any midnight and the midnight following.
      DAYTIME. The period of time between sunrise and sunset.
      DEPARTMENT, BOARD, COMMISSION, OFFICE, OFFICER or EMPLOYEE. Whenever any
department, board, commission, office, officer or employee is referred to, it
shall mean a department, board, commission, office, officer or employee of the
city unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
      EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire, Police and Public Service
Departments and legally authorized ambulances and emergency vehicles of the
state, county or any political subdivisions thereof, and vehicles of public
service corporations.
      EMERGENCY WORK. Any work performed to prevent or alleviate physical
trauma or property damage threatened or caused by an emergency, which has or
may result in a disruption of service, and which is necessary to protect the
health, safety and welfare of persons or property.
      IN THE CITY or WITHIN THE CITY. All territory over which the city now
has, or shall hereafter acquire, jurisdiction for the exercise of its police
powers or other regulatory powers.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words purporting to give a JOINT AUTHORITY to three
or more city officers or other persons shall be construed as giving the
authority to a majority of the officers or other persons unless it shall be
otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority.
      LAW. Applicable federal law, the Constitution and statutes of the state,
the ordinances of the city and, when appropriate, any and all rules and
regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
      MAJORITY. When used in reference to the City Council, means 51% of those
members in attendance; provided that, a quorum of the Council is also present.
      MANAGER. The City Manager of the City of Page.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      MOTOR VEHICLE.  Every self-propelled device in, upon or by which any
person or property is, or may be, transported upon a public highway, excepting
aircraft and devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
      MUST. The act referred to is mandatory.
      NIGHTTIME. The period of time between sunset and sunrise.
      OATH. Includes affirmation or declaration.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, tenant by the entirety, of the whole or
a part of the building or land.
      PERSON. Shall extend and be applied to firms, corporations or voluntary
associations, as well as to individuals, unless plainly inapplicable.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every species of property, except real
property as defined in this section.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. The words PRECEDING and FOLLOWING mean next
before and next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The action referred to is mandatory.
      SHALL HAVE BEEN. Includes past and future cases.
      SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the signer cannot write,
the signer’s or subscriber’s name being written near the mark by a witness who
writes his or her own name near the signer’s or subscriber’s name; but a
SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION by mark can be acknowledged or can serve as a
signature or subscription to a sworn statement only when two witnesses so sign
their own names thereto.
      STATE. The State of Arizona.
      STREET. Includes all streets, highways, avenues, lanes, alleys, courts,
places, squares, curbs or other public ways in the city which have been or may
hereafter be dedicated and open to public use or other public property so
designated in any law of the state.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person holding a written or an oral lease or who occupies the whole or part of
the building or land, either alone or with others.
      TENSES. The present tense includes the past and future tenses, and the
future includes the present.
      TIME, COMPUTATION. The time within which an act is to be done as provided
in this code or in any order issued pursuant to any ordinance, when expressed
in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last,
except that if the last day is a Sunday or holiday it shall be excluded; and
when such time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday or a holiday, from
midnight to midnight, shall be excluded.
      TIME, REASONABLE. In all cases where any section of this code shall
require any act to be done in a reasonable time or reasonable notice to be
given, such reasonable time or notice shall be deemed to mean such time only as
may be necessary for the prompt performance of such duty, or compliance with
such notice.
      WEEK. Consists of seven consecutive days.
      WRITING. Includes any form of recorded message capable of comprehension
by ordinary visual means. Whenever any notice, report, statement or record is
required or authorized by this code, it shall be made in WRITING in the English
language, unless it is expressly provided otherwise.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, except where otherwise provided.
(1976 Code, § 1-3)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions and construction of statutes generally, see A.R.S. §§ 1-211
through 1-215
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the city shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   And/or. “Or” may be read “and”, and “and” may be read “or”, if the
context requires it.
   (B)   Acts by agents. When this code or an ordinance requires an act to be
done which may by law as well be done by an agent as by the principal, the
requirement shall be construed to include all acts when done by an authorized
agent.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses.
      (1)   Words of the masculine gender include the feminine; words in the
singular number include the plural and words in the plural number include the
singular.
      (2)   The present tense includes the past and future tenses and the
future includes the present.
   (D)   General terms. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Council that the titles,
chapters, subchapters, sections, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code
shall be severable and, if any provision of this code is held unconstitutional
for any reason by a court of competent jurisdiction, the unconstitutionality
shall not affect any of the remaining provisions of the code.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO CHAPTERS AND SECTIONS.
   (A)   All references to chapters or sections are to the chapters and
sections of this code unless otherwise specified.
   (B)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within the city for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; CALCULATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done as provided in this code or
in any order issued pursuant to any ordinance, when expressed in days, shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last; except that, if the
last day is a Saturday, Sunday or holiday, it shall be excluded; and when the
time is expressed in hours, the whole of Saturday, Sunday or a holiday, from
midnight to midnight, shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code, except
as otherwise provided in §
10.14; however, all rights, duties and obligations created or imposed by the
repealed ordinances shall continue and exist in all respects as if this code
had not been adopted and enacted.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   The adoption and enactment of this code shall not be construed to repeal or,
in any way, to modify or affect:
   (A)   Any special ordinance or ordinances regarding franchises, annexations,
dedications or zoning;
   (B)   Any ordinance making an appropriation;
   (C)   Any ordinance affecting any bond issue or by which any bond issue may
have been authorized;
   (D)   The running of the statute of limitations in force at the time this
code becomes effective;
   (E)   The continued existence and operation of any department, agency,
commission or office heretofore legally established or held;
   (F)   Any bond of any public officer;
   (G)   Any taxes, fees, assessments or other charges incurred or imposed;
and/or
   (H)   Any ordinances authorizing, ratifying, confirming, approving or
accepting any compact or contract with any other municipality, the state or any
county or subdivision thereof, or with the United States or any agency or
instrumentality thereof.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication
shall take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision unless it shall be expressly so provided.
   (B)   The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty
incurred before the repeal took effect nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding
pending at the time of the repeal for any offense committed under the ordinance
repealed.
§ 10.17 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If any provision of this code conflicts with any other provision of this
code, any other local legislation, or any state or federal law, the provision
which is more stringent or restrictive in nature shall apply unless the city is
preempted or the context clearly requires or indicates otherwise.
§ 10.18 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to the
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.19 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (A.R.S. § 9-240)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Unless designated as a civil offense or otherwise within this code, any
person found guilty of violating any provision of this code shall be guilty of
a class 2 misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine
and/or imprisonment consistent with the penalty for a class 2 misdemeanor as
provided for in A.R.S. Title 13. Each day that a violation continues shall be a
separate offense punishable as herein above described.
(1976 Code, § 1-8)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND COUNCIL
      
31.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
      
33.   OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
34.   MAGISTRATE
      
35.   POLICE, FIRE, AMBULANCE
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND COUNCIL
Section
Council
   
30.001   Elected officers
   
30.002   Corporate powers
   
30.003   Duties of office
   
30.004   Vacancies in Council
   
30.005   Compensation
   
30.006   Oath of office
   
30.007   Bond
   
30.008   Financial disclosure statements
Mayor
   
30.020   Direct election of the Mayor
   
30.021   Vice Mayor
   
30.022   Acting Mayor
   
30.023   Powers and duties of the Mayor
   
30.024   Failure to sign documents
Council Election
   
30.035   Primary election
   
30.036   Non-political ballot
   
30.037   General election nomination
   
30.038   Election to office
   
30.039   Candidate financial disclosure
Council Procedure
   
30.050   Regular meetings
   
30.051   Special meetings
   
30.052   Meetings to be public
   
30.053   Quorum
   
30.054   Agenda
   
30.055   Order of business
   
30.056   Committees and commissions
   
30.057   Voting
   
30.058   Suspension of rules
Ordinances, Resolutions and Contracts
   
30.070   Prior approval
   
30.071   Introduction
   
30.072   [Reserved]
   
30.073   Two separate readings
   
30.074   Requirements for an ordinance
   
30.075   Effective date of ordinances
   
30.076   Signatures required
   
30.077   Publishing required
   
30.078   Posting required
COUNCIL
§ 30.001 ELECTED OFFICERS.
   The elected officers of the city shall be seven Council members, one of whom
shall be Mayor in accordance with §
30.020. The Mayor and Council members shall constitute the Council and shall
continue in office until assumption of duties of office by their duly elected
successors.
(1976 Code, § 2-1-1)
§ 30.002 CORPORATE POWERS.
   The corporate powers of the city shall be vested in the Council and shall be
exercised only as directed or authorized by law. All powers of the Council
shall be exercised by ordinance, resolution, order or motion.
(1976 Code, § 2-1-2)
§ 30.003 DUTIES OF OFFICE.
   Council members shall assume the duties of office at the regularly scheduled
Council meeting next following the date of the general election at which, or
effective as of the date of which, the Council members were elected.
(1976 Code, § 2-1-3)
§ 30.004 VACANCIES IN COUNCIL.
   The Council shall fill by appointment for the unexpired term any vacancy
that may occur for whatever reason.
(1976 Code, § 2-1-4)
§ 30.005 COMPENSATION.
   The compensation of elective officers of the city shall be fixed from time
to time by resolution of the Council; provided, that the compensation allowed
to the Mayor and Council members shall not exceed that allowed by state
statutes.
(1976 Code, § 2-1-5)
§ 30.006 OATH OF OFFICE.
   Immediately prior to assumption of the duties of office, each Council member
shall, in public, take and subscribe to the oath of office.
(1976 Code, § 2-1-6)
§ 30.007 BOND.
   (A)   Prior to taking office, every Council member shall execute and file an
official bond, enforceable against the principal and his or her sureties,
conditioned on the due and faithful performance of his or her official duties,
payable to the state and to and for the use and benefit of the city or any
person who may be injured or aggrieved by the wrongful act or default of such
officer in his or her official capacity. A person so injured or aggrieved may
bring suit on such bond under provisions identical to those contained in A.R.S.
§ 38-260. Bonds shall be in such sum as shall be provided by resolution and the
premium for such bonds shall be paid by the city.
   (B)   In the alternative, the City Manager may, at the direction of the
Mayor and the City Council, procure insurance coverage from city underwriters
sufficient to meet or exceed the foregoing statutory bond requirements.
(1976 Code, § 2-1-7) (Ord. 532-08, passed 4-10-2008)
§ 30.008 FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE STATEMENTS.
   The Mayor and each member of the Council shall file by January 31 of each
year, on a form prescribed by the Clerk, a financial disclosure statement,
setting forth such information as determined by resolution of the Council.
(1976 Code, § 2-1-8)
MAYOR
§ 30.020 DIRECT ELECTION OF THE MAYOR.
   (A)   The Mayor of the city shall be directly elected by the qualified
electors of the city.
   (B)   The term of office of the Mayor shall be two years.
(1976 Code, § 2-2-1) (Ord. 190-87, passed 11-24-1987; Ord. 541-08, passed 5-22-
2008)
§ 30.021 VICE MAYOR.
   The Council shall designate one of its members as Vice Mayor, who shall
serve at the pleasure of the Council. The Vice Mayor shall perform the duties
of the Mayor during the Mayor’s absence or disability.
(1976 Code, § 2-2-2) (Ord. 541-08, passed 5-22-2008)
§ 30.022 ACTING MAYOR.
   In the absence or disability of both the Mayor and Vice Mayor, the Council
may designate another one of its members to serve as acting Mayor who shall
have all the powers, duties and responsibilities of the Mayor during such
absence or disability.
(1976 Code, § 2-2-3)
§ 30.023 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE MAYOR.
   The powers and duties of the Mayor shall include the following:
   (A)   He or she shall be the chief executive officer of the city;
   (B)   He or she shall be the Chairperson of the Council and preside over its
meetings. He or she may make and second motions and shall have a voice and vote
in all its proceedings;
   (C)   He or she shall execute and authenticate by his or her signature such
instruments as the Council, or any statutes, ordinances or this code shall
require;
   (D)   He or she shall make such recommendations and suggestions to the
Council as he or she may consider proper;
   (E)   He or she shall take command of the police force of the city and
govern by proclamation in the event of the threat of or occurrence of acts of
natural disaster, riot, rout or affray sufficient to constitute great danger to
the city and its residents.
      (1)   In such areas of the city as shall be designated by the Mayor by
proclamation under the conditions set forth in this section, and within the
area within all or any part of the city so designated by the Mayor, a curfew
shall be in effect the hours of each day designated in the proclamation, and
all persons living or residing within any such designated area shall go
immediately to their homes, and remain there until the curfew is lifted by
order of the Mayor, and all other persons not residing within the designated
area shall immediately leave.
      (2)   During the imposition of any curfew as set forth in this section,
all business establishments in the designated curfew area having on their
premises intoxicating beverages shall be closed during the state of emergency
and until the curfew is lifted.
   (F)   He or she shall perform such other duties required by state statute
and this code as well as those duties required as chief executive officer of
the city.
(1976 Code, § 2-2-5)
§ 30.024 FAILURE TO SIGN DOCUMENTS.
   If the Mayor refuses or is not available to sign any ordinance, resolution,
contract or other document requiring the Mayor’s signature, the Vice Mayor
shall execute the document. If the Vice Mayor refuses or is not available to
sign the document, any other member of the City Council shall execute the
document upon request of the City Manager or City Clerk.
(1976 Code, § 2-2-6) (Ord. 541-08, passed 5-22-2008)
COUNCIL ELECTION
§ 30.035 PRIMARY ELECTION.
   In accordance with A.R.S. § 9-821.01, any candidate who shall receive a
majority of all the votes cast at the primary election shall be declared to be
elected to the office for which he or she is a candidate effective as of the
date of the general election, and no further election shall be held as to said
candidate; provided, that if more candidates receive a majority than there are
offices to be filled, those candidates equal in number to the offices to be
filled with the highest number of votes shall be declared elected.
(1976 Code, § 2-3-1) (Ord. 604-13, passed 8-21-2013; Ord. 647-18, passed - -
2018)
§ 30.036 NON-POLITICAL BALLOT.
   Nothing on the ballot in any election shall be indicative of the support of
the candidate.
(1976 Code, § 2-3-2)
§ 30.037 GENERAL ELECTION NOMINATION.
   If at any primary election held as above provided there be any office for
which no candidate is elected, then as to such office, the primary election
shall be considered to be a primary election for nomination of candidates for
such office, and the general municipal election shall be held to vote for
candidates to fill such office. Candidates to be placed on the ballot at the
general municipal election shall be those not elected at the primary election
and shall be equal in number to twice the number to be elected to any given
office or less than that number if there be less than that number named on the
primary election ballot. Persons who receive the highest number of votes for
the respective offices at such first election shall be the only candidates at
such second election; provided, that if there be any person who, under the
provisions of this subchapter, would have been entitled to become a candidate
for any office, except for the fact that some other candidate received an equal
number of votes therefor, then all such persons receiving an equal number of
votes shall likewise become candidates for such office.
(1976 Code, § 2-3-3)
§ 30.038 ELECTION TO OFFICE.
   The candidates equal in number to the persons to be elected who receive the
highest number of votes shall be declared elected.
(1976 Code, § 2-3-4)
§ 30.039 CANDIDATE FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   Each candidate for the office of Mayor or Council member shall file a
financial disclosure statement on a form prescribed by the Clerk when such
candidate files a nomination paper.
   (B)   The statement shall contain information as required by resolution of
the Council.
(1976 Code, § 2-3-5)
COUNCIL PROCEDURE
§ 30.050 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The Council shall generally hold regular meetings on the second and fourth
Wednesday of each month in the City Council Chambers at the time indicated in
the published agenda, or at such other date, location, and time as the Council
may designate by a majority vote thereof.
(1976 Code, § 2-4-1) (Ord. 582-12, passed 3-22-2012; Ord. 654-19, passed 1-23-
2019; Ord. 685-21, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 30.051 SPECIAL MEETINGS
   The Mayor, or the Manager upon the written request of four members, may
convene the Council at any time after giving at least 24 hours’ notice of such
meeting to members of the Council and the general public. The notice shall
include the date, hour and purpose of such special meeting. In the case of an
actual emergency, a meeting may be held upon such notice as is appropriate to
the circumstances.
(1976 Code, § 2-4-2)
§ 30.052 MEETINGS TO BE PUBLIC.
   (A)   All official meetings of the Council at which any legal action is
taken shall be open to the public and all persons so desiring shall be
permitted to attend and listen to the deliberations and proceedings; upon a
public majority vote of the Council members constituting a quorum, the Council
may meet in a closed executive session but only for a discussion of the
following:
      (1)   Discussion or consideration of employment, assignment, appointment,
promotion, demotion, dismissal, salaries, disciplining or resignation of a
public officer, appointee or employee of any public body, except that, with the
exception of salary discussions, an officer, appointee or employee may demand
that such discussion or consideration occur at a public meeting. The public
body shall provide the officer, appointee or employee with written notice of
the executive session as is appropriate, but not less than 24 hours for the
officer, appointee or employee to determine whether the discussion or
consideration should occur at a public meeting;
      (2)   Discussion or consideration of records exempt by law from public
inspection, including the receipt and discussion of information or testimony
that is specifically required to be maintained as confidential by state or
federal law;
      (3)   Discussion or consultation for legal advice with the attorney or
attorneys of the public body;
      (4)   Discussion or consultation with the attorneys of the public body in
order to consider its position and instruct its attorneys regarding the public
body’s position regarding contracts that are the subject of negotiations, in
pending or contemplated litigation or in settlement discussions conducted in
order to avoid or resolve litigation;
      (5)   Discussions or consultations with designated representatives of the
public body in order to consider its position and instruct its representatives
regarding negotiations with employee organizations regarding the salaries,
salary schedules or compensation paid in the form of fringe benefits of
employees of the public body;
      (6)   Discussion, consultation or consideration for international and
interstate negotiations or for negotiations by a city or town, or its
designated representatives, with members of a tribal council, or its designated
representatives, of an Indian reservation located within or adjacent to the
city; and/or
      (7)   Discussions or consultations with designated representatives of the
public body in order to consider its position and instruct its representatives
regarding negotiations for the purchase, sale or lease of real property.
   (B)   Minutes of and discussions made at executive sessions shall be kept
confidential, except from:
      (1)   Members of the public body which met in executive session;
      (2)   Officers, appointees or employees who were the subject of
discussion or consideration pursuant to division (A)(1) above;
      (3)   The Auditor General on a request made in connection with an audit
authorized as provided by law; and
      (4)   A County Attorney or the Attorney General when investigating
alleged violations of this subchapter.
   (C)   The public body shall instruct persons who are present at the
executive session regarding the confidentiality requirements of this
subchapter.
   (D)   Legal action involving a final vote or decision shall not be taken at
an executive session, except that the public body may instruct its attorneys or
representatives as provided in divisions (A)(4), (A)(5) and (A)(7) above. A
public vote shall be taken before any legal action binds the public body.
   (E)   Except as provided in A.R.S. § 38-431.02, subsections I and J, a
public body shall not discuss any matter in an executive session which is not
described in the notice of the executive session.
   (F)   Disclosure of executive session information pursuant to A.R.S. §§ 38-
431.03 or 38-431.06 does not constitute a waiver of any privilege, including
the attorney-client privilege. Any person receiving executive session
information pursuant to A.R.S. §§ 38-431.03 or 38-431.06 shall not disclose
that information except to the Attorney General or County Attorney, by
agreement with the public body or to a court in camera for purposes of
enforcing this subchapter. Any court that reviews executive session information
shall take appropriate action to protect privileged information.
(1976 Code, § 2-4-3) (Ord. 432-01, passed 12-13-2001)
§ 30.053 QUORUM.
   A majority of the Council members shall constitute a quorum for transacting
business, but a lesser number may adjourn from time to time and compel the
attendance of absent members.
(1976 Code, § 2-4-4)
§ 30.054 AGENDA.
   (A)   Notice. The City Clerk shall give notice of each meeting of the
Council to whom and in the manner as prescribed in the state statutes. The City
Council may instruct the City Clerk to give any other notice that it deems
necessary.
   (B)   Preparation. The City Clerk shall finalize the agenda not later than
Monday prior to the regular Council meeting, including all backup material that
has been received. Copies of the agenda, including backup material, shall be
posted and distributed in accordance with law. Special meetings called under §
30.051 need not follow this outline, however, notice thereof shall be given in
a manner consistent with state law.
   (C)   Additions. Additions may be made to the agenda by the Mayor or City
Manager. A member of City Council may submit items that the Councilor desires
to place on a future agenda at any time prior to the publication of the agenda.
These future agenda item requests will be placed on the agenda for
consideration by the Council to determine whether the item will or will not be
placed on a future agenda for substantive discussion and possible action. An
affirmative majority vote of the Council is required to place the requested
item on a future agenda.
(1976 Code, § 2-4-5) (Ord. 77, passed 11-23-1982; Ord. 110, passed 5-22-1984;
Ord. 654-19, passed 1-23-2019; Ord. 737-25, passed 2-26-2025; Ord. 742-25,
passed 6-11-2025)
§ 30.055 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
    (A)   The business of the Council will be taken up for consideration and
disposition in the order specified in the agenda. The Mayor, or the majority of
the Council by consensus, may consider items out of sequence from the printed
agenda for the meeting.
   (B)   When a quorum is not present, the City Clerk may postpone the meeting
until a quorum is present, postpone the meeting to a date and time certain, or
adjourn the meeting.
   (C)   The Mayor shall conduct the Council meetings in accordance with
Robert’s Rules of Order.
(1976 Code, § 2-4-6) (Ord. 77, passed 11-23-1982; Ord. 113, passed 6-26-1984;
Ord. 654-19, passed 1-23-2019)
§ 30.056 COMMITTEES AND COMMISSIONS.
   The Council may create such committees and commissions, standing or special,
as it deems necessary. They shall consist of as many members and shall perform
such duties as the Council may require and shall exist at the pleasure of the
Council.
(1976 Code, § 2-4-7)
§ 30.057 VOTING.
   (A)   The Mayor shall vote as a member of the Council.
   (B)   Upon the request of any member, the ayes and nays upon any questions
shall be taken and entered in the minutes.
(1976 Code, § 2-4-8)
§ 30.058 SUSPENSION OF RULES.
   Any of the provisions of this subchapter may be temporarily suspended in
connection with any matter under consideration by a recorded vote of three-
fourths of the members present, except that this section shall not be construed
to permit any action that is contrary to state statutes.
(1976 Code, § 2-4-9)
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND CONTRACTS
§ 30.070 PRIOR APPROVAL.
   All ordinances, resolutions and contract documents shall, before
presentation to the Council, have been reviewed as to form by the Attorney and
shall, when there are substantive matters of administration involved, be
referred to the person who is charged with the administration of the matters.
Such person shall have an opportunity to present his or her comments,
suggestions and objections, if any, prior to the passage of the ordinance,
resolution or acceptance of the contract.
(1976 Code, § 2-5-1)
§ 30.071 INTRODUCTION.
   Ordinances, resolutions and other matters or subjects requiring action by
the Council, shall be introduced and sponsored by a member of the Council,
except that the Attorney or the Manager may present ordinances, resolutions and
other matters or subjects to the Council and any Council member may assume
sponsorship thereof by moving that such ordinance, resolution, matter or
subject be adopted; otherwise they shall not be considered.
(1976 Code, § 2-5-2)
§ 30.072 [RESERVED].
§ 30.073 TWO SEPARATE READINGS.
   An ordinance shall require only one reading before its adoption and may be
adopted at the same meeting at which it is first introduced by a majority of
those Councilmembers present. The ordinance may be presented for adoption by
title only upon unanimous consent of the Councilmembers present. Otherwise, the
ordinance shall be presented for adoption in full.
(1976 Code, § 2-5-4) (Ord. 649-18, passed 11-28-2018)
§ 30.074 REQUIREMENTS FOR AN ORDINANCE.
   Each ordinance may have only one subject, the nature of which is clearly
expressed in the title. Whenever possible, each ordinance shall be introduced
as an amendment to this code or to an existing ordinance and, in such case, the
title of the sections to be amended shall be included in the ordinance.
(1976 Code, § 2-5-5)
§ 30.075 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   No ordinance, resolution constituting a legislative act or franchise shall
become operative until 30 days after its passage by the Council and approval by
the Mayor, except measures necessary for the immediate preservation of the
peace, health or safety of the city, but such an emergency measure shall not
become immediately operative unless it states in a separate section the reason
why it is necessary that it should become immediately operative and, unless it
is approved by the affirmative vote of three-fourths of all the members elected
to the Council, taken by ayes and nays.
(1976 Code, § 2-5-6) (Ord. 634-17, passed 6-14-2017)
§ 30.076 SIGNATURES REQUIRED.
   Every ordinance passed by the Council shall, before it becomes effective, be
signed by the Mayor and attested by the Clerk.
(1976 Code, § 2-5-7)
§ 30.077 PUBLISHING REQUIRED.
   Only such orders, resolutions, motions, regulations or proceedings of the
Council shall be published as may be required by state statutes or expressly
ordered by the Council.
(1976 Code, § 2-5-8)
§ 30.078 POSTING REQUIRED.
   Every ordinance imposing any penalty, fine, forfeiture or other punishment
shall, after passage, be posted by the Clerk in three or more public places
within the city and an affidavit of the person who posted the ordinances shall
be filed in the office of the Clerk as proof of posting.
(1976 Code, § 2-5-9)
CHAPTER 31: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Establishment
   
31.02   Cooperation of city officials
   
31.03   Membership
   
31.04   Ineligibility
   
31.05   Appointments and terms of membership
   
31.06   Organization and bylaws
   
31.07   Remuneration
   
31.08   Lobbying efforts consistent with city policy
City Advisory Boards and Commissions
   
31.20   Economic Development Advisory Board
   
31.21   [Reserved]
   
31.22   Library Advisory Board
   
31.23   Parks and Recreation Advisory Board
   
31.24   Planning and Zoning Commission
   
31.25   Public Safety Personnel Retirement System Board
   
31.26   [Reserved]
   
31.27   Youth Advisory Commission
City Authorities, Generally
   
31.40   Substance Abuse Task Force
   
31.41   Page Utility Enterprises Board
   
31.42   Board of Adjustment
Page Utility Enterprises
   
31.55   Definitions
   
31.56   Delegation of powers
   
31.57   Board; composition, meetings, voting
   
31.58   Oversight, authority, duties
   
31.59   Finances and purchasing
   
31.60   Personnel
   
31.61   Rates, setting rates; reserves; user fee
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   Authority to establish. The City Council establishes or continues the
following boards and commissions to advise the Council with respect to
municipal functions and activities and to investigate subjects of interest to
the city.
   (B)   How established. A board or commission may be established by a
majority vote of the Council. An ordinance shall be adopted prescribing the
purpose, duties and composition of the board or commission.
   (C)   Applicability. All boards and commissions established by the City
Council shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter, unless a specific
requirement or condition is imposed by the city ordinance or state law.
   (D)   Purposes and duties generally. All boards and commissions established
by the Council shall be advisory to the Council and shall have the
responsibility to:
      (1)   Investigate matters within the scope of the particular board or
commission or as specifically directed by the Council;
      (2)   Advise the Council by communicating the viewpoint or advice of the
board or commission;
      (3)   At the direction of the Council, hold hearings, receive evidence,
conduct investigations and, on the basis of such hearings, evidence and
investigations, make decisions and recommendations to the Council; and
      (4)   Advisory role. A board or commission established by the Council
shall not assume the role of an administrative or legislative body, except as
otherwise provided for in city code or ordinances.
(1976 Code, § 15-1-1)
§ 31.02 COOPERATION OF CITY OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All city officials, Department Managers, employees and appointees
shall cooperate with the commissions established by the Council and render all
reasonable assistance as directed by the City Manager.
   (B)   Each board and commission shall hold its regular meetings at times
established and approved by the City Manager. The City Manager shall be an ex
officio member of all boards and commissions.
(1976 Code, § 15-1-2)
§ 31.03 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   Members. Any person wishing to serve on a city board or commission
must meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Age 18 or older on the date of appointment to the boards and
commission, or age of 14 or older for the Youth Advisory Commission; and
      (2)   A citizen of the United States.
   (B)   City Council liaison. Each advisory board or commission shall have a
City Council liaison.
(1976 Code, § 15-1-3)
§ 31.04 INELIGIBILITY.
   The following persons are ineligible to serve on a city board or commission:
   (A)   Anyone convicted of treason or a felon whose rights have not been
restored;
   (B)   Anyone under guardianship;
   (C)   Anyone who is found by a court of law to be legally incompetent; and
   (D)   Full-time city employees; or part-time employees where there is an
incompatibility of office.
(1976 Code, § 15-1-4)
§ 31.05 APPOINTMENTS AND TERMS OF MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   Regular members. Board and commission members should be appointed at a
regular meeting of the Council in June of each year, by majority vote of the
Council and shall serve terms of membership not to exceed three years per term.
Terms expire on June 30. Re-appointment will take place at term expiration. New
appointees shall assume office on July 1.
   (B)   Council liaisons. Council representatives shall be appointed at the
first regular meeting of the Council in July of each year by the Mayor and
shall serve a term of two years.
   (C)   Resignation and removal. Members shall serve without compensation and
may resign voluntarily by letter or e-mail to the City Clerk or be removed by
majority vote of the Council or pursuant to division (E) below.
   (D)   Vacancies. Vacancies in membership shall be filled by majority vote of
the Council for the balance of the unexpired term.
   (E)   Term of appointment to fill vacancy. A person appointed to fill a
vacancy shall be eligible to serve three full terms in addition to the balance
of the unexpired term.
   (F)   Concurrent membership. No person may serve concurrently on more than
two boards or commissions.
   (G)   Staggered terms. Terms of membership shall be staggered so that no
more than one-half of the terms on a board or commission expire in any
particular year.
(1976 Code, § 15-1-5) (Ord. 710-23, passed 6-28-2023)
§ 31.06 ORGANIZATION AND BYLAWS.
   (A)   Bylaws. Each board or commission shall adopt and be governed by such
bylaws as shall be necessary and desirable for the conduct of its activities.
Bylaws shall be subject to review and approval by the Council.
   (B)   Chairperson. Each board or commission annually shall elect from its
members a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson to serve a term of one year. No
person shall serve more than two consecutive one-year terms as chairperson of a
particular board or commission.
   (C)   Meetings.
      (1)   Regular meetings. All board and commission meetings are open
meetings subject to the Arizona Open Meeting Law and shall be held at a fixed
time, on a fixed date and in a fixed place as shall be determined by the board
or commission. The City Clerk shall give notice of all board and commission
meetings as required for meetings of public bodies.
      (2)   Special meetings. Special meetings may be held if necessary. All
meetings shall comply with the Arizona Open Meeting Laws and shall be open to
the public. The Chairperson shall utilize Robert’s Rules of Order to govern the
conduct of the meetings insofar as practical.
      (3)   Public comment. All board and commission meetings shall include
scheduled time for public comment.
      (4)   Meetings conducted according to bylaws. All meetings shall be
conducted according to the bylaws of the board or commission.
   (D)   Meeting minutes.
      (1)   Official record. Approved minutes of board or commission
proceedings shall be public record; the city shall retain a copy of the
official minutes of each board or commission meeting in accordance with
applicable state laws.
      (2)   Distributed to City Council. Official minutes of each board or
commission meeting shall be distributed to the City Council.
   (E)   Removal.
      (1)   Any member of a board or commission established by the Council who
fails to attend three consecutive regular meetings, or who fails to attend at
least 75% of the scheduled meetings in any calendar year, shall be deemed to
have resigned as a member of the board or commission.
      (2)   Extraordinary circumstances such as serious illness will be
considered a waiver of these requirements.
      (3)   Members may be removed, from any advisory board or commission,
prior to the expiration of their term of office, by a majority vote of the City
Council.
   (F)   Vacancies. The successor to any member of a board or commission who
has been removed pursuant to this section shall be appointed pursuant to §
31.05.
   (G)   Quorum. A majority of the appointed members of the advisory board or
commission shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. An
affirmative vote of the majority of a quorum in attendance at any meeting shall
be necessary to transact business or carry any proposition.
   (H)   Conflict of interest. All members should be aware of the need to avoid
any instance of conflict of interest and are governed by the state’s conflict
of interest laws.
   (I)   Procedure. The board or commission’s final action on any proposal
shall be in the form of a recommendation of approval or disapproval directed to
the City Council, except as otherwise provided for in city code or ordinances.
(1976 Code, § 15-1-6)
§ 31.07 REMUNERATION.
   All appointed board and commission members shall serve without remuneration,
but may be reimbursed for out-of-pocket expenses incurred in performance of
their duties when the expenses have been authorized before they are incurred.
(1976 Code, § 15-1-7)
§ 31.08 LOBBYING EFFORTS CONSISTENT WITH CITY POLICY.
   (A)   Lobbying efforts by any advisory board or commission member on
legislative or political matters should contact the City Manager to check for
consistency with city policy. In the event a position is taken that differs
from that of the city’s policy, an advisory board or commission cannot
represent that position publicly or before another body, for example, the state
legislature or the County Board of Supervisors.
   (B)   An advisory board or commission member is free to communicate
positions to the City Council on matters pertaining to the body’s purpose and
function.
   (C)   A member of the advisory board or commission is not authorized to
speak for the board or commission, unless the Board has expressly authorized
the member’s communication.
   (D)   An individual member is free to voice a position, oral or written, on
any issue as long as it is made clear that the member is not speaking as a
representative of the city, or as a member of an advisory board or commission.
(1976 Code, § 15-1-8)
CITY ADVISORY BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
§ 31.20 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   Purpose. The Economic Development Advisory Board will act in an
advisory and review capacity to the City Council regarding economic
development, tourism, and marketing as well as the management, maintenance,
operation and construction of the airport.
   (B)   Membership. The Economic Development Advisory Board will consist of
seven members, appointed pursuant to §
31.05.
(1976 Code, § 15-2-1) (Ord. 650-18, passed 11-28-2018)
§ 31.21 [RESERVED].
§ 31.22 LIBRARY ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   Purpose. The Library Advisory Board will act in an advisory and review
capacity to the City Council regarding the operation and programming of the
Page Public Library.
   (B)   Membership. The Library Advisory Board will consist of seven members,
appointed pursuant to §
31.05.
(1976 Code, § 15-2-3)
§ 31.23 PARKS AND RECREATION ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   Purpose. The Parks and Recreation Advisory Board will act in an
advisory and review capacity to the City Council regarding the operation,
maintenance, improvement and activities of the parks and recreation facilities,
and shall have the following responsibilities and duties:
      (1)   To advise the Council in the establishment of the rules and
regulations, consistent with state authority, as may be necessary or advisable
for the operation and management of the park system, including playgrounds,
recreational facilities, playing and sports fields, trails and programs for the
city, the same to be confirmed by the Council before they are placed in effect;
      (2)   To advise the Council in the establishment of recreational
facilities and recommend all proposed construction on park property and to
request repair or removal of structures not maintained in accordance with
regulations as to construction or location;
      (3)   To make other recommendations as may be necessary or advisable for
the safe and efficient management, operation and maintenance of the city’s
parks, playgrounds, recreational facilities, playing and sports fields, trials
and programs; and
      (4)   To promote public parks, trails, recreation programs and sporting
or other recreational events for city.
   (B)   Donation Fund.
      (1)   The Advisory Board may solicit and receive donations, legacies,
bequests or devises for the establishment, maintenance or improvement of
recreational facilities, trails and activities. Funds received by the Advisory
Board, with a statement in substantially the following form, shall be
maintained by the city in accordance with state and city ordinances:
         “I hereby donate/give the sum of $___ to be deposited into the
donation fund with the City of Page on behalf of Parks and Recreation. I
further direct that said funds be used for establishment, maintenance or
improvements of recreational facilities or activities only.”
      (2)   Such funds shall be deposited with the city to the credit of the
City Recreation Fund and may be withdrawn in the manner provided for the
payment of money appropriated for the acquisition, improvement, operation and
maintenance of playgrounds and other recreational facilities and activities.
   (C)   Membership. The Parks and Recreation Board will consist of seven
members, appointed pursuant to §
31.05.
(1976 Code, § 15-2-4)
§ 31.24 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Purpose. The Planning and Zoning Commission will assist in the
preparation of a General Plan; assist in the preparation of development
controls; review development proposals, proposed changes to ordinances and
changes in development policies; hold public hearings and meetings; assist in
preparation of a capital improvements program; make recommendations on proposed
boundary changes; and make recommendations on a uniform schedule of fees for
service.
   (B)   Fees. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall be authorized to
establish a uniform schedule of fees for service, with all receipts to be paid
to the general fund of the city. Such fee schedule shall become effective upon
approval by the Council.
   (C)   Membership. The Planning and Zoning Commission will consist of seven
members, appointed pursuant to §
31.05.
(1976 Code, § 15-2-5)
§ 31.25 PUBLIC SAFETY PERSONNEL RETIREMENT SYSTEM BOARD.
   The city established a Public Safety Personnel Retirement System Board
composed of five members pursuant to A.R.S. § 38-847. The Board shall have the
responsibilities and duties as set forth in A.R.S. § 38-847, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(1976 Code, § 15-2-6)
§ 31.26 [RESERVED].
§ 31.27 YOUTH ADVISORY COMMISSION.
   (A)   Purpose. The Youth Advisory Board shall represent the youth in the
city, responsibilities include: assist and advise the Parks and Recreation
Board on issues concerning youth in the city; present recommended improvements
to the City Council of public projects and programs relating to youth; assist
in planning and youth/recreation activities and events.
   (B)   Membership. The Youth Advisory Board will consist of seven members,
appointed pursuant to §
31.05. The members shall represent a cross section on ninth through twelfth
grade students. All members must be actively enrolled in public or private high
school in the city (including charter and home schools).
(1976 Code, § 15-2-8)
CITY AUTHORITIES, GENERALLY
§ 31.40 SUBSTANCE ABUSE TASK FORCE.
   (A)   Establishment and meetings.
      (1)   The City Substance Abuse Task Force is hereby established to foster
the health and well- being of the citizens of the city by coordinating efforts
to establish and strengthen programs to reduce and prevent substance abuse in
the community.
      (2)   The Task Force shall endeavor to meet regularly at least once per
month to conduct business; convening a minimum of at least nine meetings per
year. The date, time and place of the public meetings shall be determined by
the Task Force. Special meetings may be held if necessary. The City Clerk shall
give notice of all Task Force meetings as required for meetings of public
bodies
   (B)   General provisions. The Chairperson shall utilize Robert’s Rules of
Order to govern the conduct of the meetings insofar as practical. A majority of
the voting members of the Task Force shall constitute a quorum. The affirmative
vote of a majority of the voting members present at a meeting shall be required
for passage of any matter before the Task Force. The minutes of the meetings
shall reflect the ayes and nays cast on a particular measure and shall reflect
the vote of each member present. A member may abstain from voting only upon a
declaration of a conflict of interest, in which case the member shall not vote
on the issue presented. The Substance Abuse Task Force shall comply with the
open meeting and public records laws of the state.
   (C)   Membership and selection. The Substance Abuse Task Force shall consist
of seven voting members, all of whom shall be appointed by Council. The term of
office of each member shall be four years, except that the term of a person
appointed to fill a vacancy shall be for the unexpired term. Three of the seven
members shall be appointed to an initial term of two years in order to stagger
the terms of the Task Force members. A Council member appointed by the Mayor
may serve as Chair and Council Liaison with no voting privilege.
   (D)   Chairperson. The Substance Abuse Task Force shall elect from its
members a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson to serve a term of one year. No
person shall serve more than two consecutive one-year terms as Chairperson of a
particular board or commission. Vacancies in any office shall be filled by
election for the unexpired term.
   (E)   Member attendance at meetings, compensation and reimbursement.
Unexcused failure of any member of the Substance Abuse Task Force to attend
three consecutive meetings, or 75% of the meetings of the Task Force in one
year, shall be considered cause for removal from the Task Force. Removal shall
occur by majority action of the Council. The Substance Abuse Task Force
Chairperson shall have authority to excuse absences; provided, however, that
any Task Force member may request members to vote on the question of whether
one or more absences should be excused. Substance Abuse Task Force members
shall not receive compensation for their services but shall be reimbursed for
actual and necessary traveling and incidental expenses, when the expenses have
been authorized by the Task Force before they are incurred. Expenses shall be
approved and audited by the Task Force and paid in the same manner as other
expenses.
   (F)   Coordination with volunteers. The Substance Abuse Task Force shall
coordinate with a variety of sources in the community such as businesses,
community based health care providers, neighborhood associations, parents,
schools, youth, civic and faith-based organizations and non-profit entities to
create a pool of volunteers to assist the Task Force with the implementation of
the Task Force’s stated purpose and agenda.
   (G)   Powers and duties. The Substance Abuse Task Force shall:
      (1)   Gather and evaluate information concerning existing and potential
alcohol or drug issues in the community that affect the health and well-being
of citizens;
      (2)   Gather information concerning existing programs designed to
effectuate community alcohol and drug abuse prevention in the community and
using this information, create prevention programs based on the needs of the
community;
      (3)   Coordinate with other agencies, both public and private, in the
assessment, development and implementation of programs for alcohol and drug
abuse education or prevention;
      (4)   Utilize information gathered, set goals, perform tasks and
disseminates information and make recommendations to the Mayor and City
Council, the public and law enforcement agencies operating within the city;
      (5)   Submit a monthly report, which may be in the form of minutes of
meetings or any other report the Task Force deems necessary, to the Mayor and
City Council, of the activities, funding and other possible discussions or
actions;
      (6)   Investigate sources of funding and submit grant proposals;
      (7)   Gather quarterly or yearly statistics from the police, fire,
hospital emergency room, on the numbers of substance abuse arrests, transports
to hospital, treatment and admits; and
      (8)   Comply with the city’s procurement policy. Funding of projects over
$10,000 shall be approved by Council.
   (H)   Substance Abuse Fund.
      (1)   There is established a Substance Abuse Fund consisting of monies
collected pursuant to division (I) below.
      (2)   The City Substance Abuse Task Force shall, as necessary, allocate
monies received into the Fund to itself and local organizations for the purpose
of education, creating prevention or treatment projects and programs, or
enhancing existing projects and programs designed to prevent or treat substance
abuse. The Task Force may adopt rules for said allocation.
      (3)   The process of allocating funds to itself each year shall include
submitting a budget to the City Manager on a date determined by the City
Manager for the following fiscal year. The Task Force budget will dictate how
the substance abuse funds may be spent for the following fiscal year.
   (I)   Assessments; Fund deposits.
      (1)   In addition to any other penalty assessment provided by law, there
shall be levied a penalty assessment in an amount of 10% on every fine, penalty
and forfeiture imposed and collected by the Municipal Court for criminal
offenses and any civil sanction imposed and collected for:
         (a)   A civil traffic violation and fine, penalty or forfeiture for a
violation of A.R.S. Title 4, Alcoholic Beverage; A.R.S. Title 13, Chapter 34,
Drug Offenses;
         (b)   A.R.S. Title 13, Chapter 34.1, Imitation Substance or Drug
Offenses; and
         (c)   A.R.S. Title 28, Chapter 4, Article 1 et seq., Driving While
Intoxicated (excluding reckless driving) and §
93.01. If multiple offenses are involved, the penalty assessment shall be based
upon the total civil sanction, fine, bail or bond for all offenses.
      (2)   If a fine or civil sanction is suspended in whole or in part, the
penalty assessment shall be reduced in proportion to the suspension.
      (3)   If any deposit of bail or bond or deposit for an alleged traffic
violation is to be made for a violation, the Municipal Court shall require a
sufficient amount to include the assessment prescribed in this section for
forfeited bail or bond or deposit. If bail or bond or deposit is forfeited, the
amount of such assessment shall be transmitted by the Clerk of the Court to the
City Treasurer pursuant to division (E) above. If bail or bond or deposit is
returned, the assessment made pursuant to the article shall also be returned.
      (4)   The Magistrate may waive all or any part of the penalty assessment
the payment of which would work a hardship on the person convicted or
adjudicated or on his or her immediate family.
      (5)   After a determination by the Court of the amount due, the Clerk of
the Court shall transmit, on the last day of each month, the assessments
collected pursuant to divisions (A) and (B) above and an itemized statement of
the fines, civil sanctions and assessments collected pursuant to divisions (I)
(1) and (I)(2) above to the City Treasurer.
(1976 Code, § 15-3-1) (Ord. 676-20, passed 9-9-2020)
§ 31.41 PAGE UTILITY ENTERPRISES BOARD.
   In 1986, voters authorized the acquisition of the electric utility from
Arizona Public Service (APS), a large investor owned utility. In 2012, the City
Council voted unanimously to merge the Water and Sewer Utilities with the
Electric Utility to form Page Utility Enterprises (PUE). The Page Utility
Enterprises Board shall have the responsibilities and duties as set forth in §§
31.55 through
31.61.
(1976 Code, § 15-3-2)
§ 31.42 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   The city established a Board of Adjustment, pursuant to A.R.S. § 9-462.06.
The Board of Adjustment shall have the responsibilities and duties as set forth
in § 2 of the Planning and Zoning Ordinance.
(1976 Code, § 15-3-3)
Cross-reference:
   Board of Adjustment, Planning and Zoning Ordinance, see §
152.073
   Page Utility Enterprises Board City Code of Ordinances, see §§
31.55 through
31.61
PAGE UTILITY ENTERPRISES
§ 31.55 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. Page Utilities Board or any successor name that the Council may
assign to such Board.
   CITY. City of Page.
   CITY USER FEE or FRANCHISE FEE. The meaning ascribed in §
31.61.
   CODE. Code of the City of Page.
   COUNCIL. Mayor and City Council of the City of Page.
   ENTERPRISE. Electric, Sewer and Water Funds.
   INTERVENERS. The meaning ascribed in §
31.61.
   PUE. Page Utility Enterprises.
(1976 Code, § 2-8-1)
§ 31.56 DELEGATION OF POWERS.
   The Council delegates to the Board and the Utilities General Manager
responsibility over the operation, management and control of PUE pursuant to
the provisions and restrictions set forth in this subchapter. Except as
provided in this subchapter, the Board and the Utilities General Manager shall
not have any other authority without approval of the Council.
(1976 Code, § 2-8-1) (Ord. 588-12, passed 5-9-2012)
§ 31.57 BOARD; COMPOSITION, MEETINGS, VOTING.
   (A)   Composition and selection. The Board shall be composed of a total of
six members who shall live within the city limits. Five members, who are not
Council members, shall be appointed by resolution of the Council. The sixth
member of the Board shall be the Mayor or designee who shall serve as an ex
officio member without the privilege of voting.
      (1)   Prior to appointment of members, the city shall advertise the
position at least twice in a newspaper of general circulation within the city.
The Board or a ratepayer may recommend one or more persons who are qualified
for appointment to the Board. Council shall act promptly to fill vacancies on
the Board.
      (2)   Inasmuch as the Council has exercised its authority to expand the
responsibilities of the Board to include other city utilities, at least one
person with expertise, interest or experience in an additional utility shall be
appointed to fill the first vacant position.
   (B)   Term of office. The term of office of each appointed member of the
Board shall be five years, except that the term of a person appointed to fill a
vacancy shall be for the unexpired term.
   (C)   Member attendance at meetings, compensation and reimbursement.
      (1)   Unexcused failure of any member of the Board to attend three
consecutive meetings, or 75% of the meetings of the Board in one year, shall be
considered cause for removal from the Board. Removal shall occur by action of
the Council. The Board Chairperson shall have authority to excuse absences;
provided, however, that any Board member may request members to vote on the
question of whether one or more absences should be excused.
      (2)   Board members shall not receive compensation for their services but
shall be reimbursed for actual and necessary traveling and incidental expenses.
Expenses shall be approved and audited by the Board and paid in the same manner
as other expenses.
   (D)   Offices. The Board shall elect a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson from
among its own members who shall serve for one year or until successors are
elected and qualified. The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings. The
Chairperson shall have the authority to administer oaths, take testimony and
receive evidence. The Vice Chairperson shall perform the duties of the
Chairperson in the absence or disability of the Chairperson. Vacancies in any
office shall be filled by election for the unexpired term.
   (E)   Meetings, voting and records. The Board shall meet regularly and at
such time and place prescribed by the bylaws. A majority of the voting members
of the Board shall constitute a quorum. The affirmative vote of a majority of
the voting members present at a meeting shall be required for passage of any
matter before the Board. The minutes of the meetings shall reflect the ayes and
nays cast on a particular measure and shall reflect the vote of each member
present. A member may abstain from voting only upon a declaration of a conflict
of interest, in which case the member shall not vote on the issue presented.
The Board shall comply with the open meeting and public records laws of the
state. PUE records shall be kept in a place provided and designated for that
purpose and shall be open to the public at all times pursuant to state law and
city code.
(1976 Code, § 2-8-2) (Ord. 588-12, passed 5-9-2012)
§ 31.58 OVERSIGHT, AUTHORITY, DUTIES.
   (A)   Board oversight. The Board, subject to provisions of this subchapter,
shall cause to be performed any and all acts that, in the considered judgment
of the Board, are reasonable and necessary for the prudent, safe, efficient and
economical management and protection of the utility systems. The Board may
adopt and amend bylaws, adopt and amend rules and regulations applicable to the
ratepayers and customers of PUE, and make compliance therewith a condition of
service.
   (B)   Hiring of Utilities General Manager. The Board shall develop a request
for qualifications for the position. The request for qualifications shall be
reviewed and approved by the City Attorney, such review being limited to
verification of compliance with applicable law. The Board shall be responsible
for identifying those candidates whose qualifications meet the requirements of
the request for qualifications and for conducting appropriate background
checks.
      (1)   The Board shall, at one or more open meetings, conduct interviews
of those applicants determined eligible for the position. Separate written
notice of the meetings shall be provided to the Mayor and Council. The Board
shall communicate to Council in executive session the name of at least one, but
not more than three, candidates it recommends be hired, along with the reasons
for recommending each candidate.
      (2)   Council may, at its discretion, interview any or all candidates
from the Board’s recommended list. The Council may approve the recommended
list, approve the list with a different order of preference among candidates,
or reject the list in its entirety and direct the Board to re-initiate the
hiring process. After approving a list with an order of preference, Council
shall direct the Board to enter into negotiations with the candidate with the
highest priority rating. Council shall provide guidance to the Board in
executive session with respect to acceptable parameters for negotiations.
Council may authorize the Board to negotiate with the remaining candidates, in
order of preference, in the event that negotiations with the first or
subsequent preferences are terminated by the candidates. The Board shall enter
into non-binding negotiations with the selected candidate. The final employment
agreement shall be approved by the Mayor and Council.
   (C)   Oversight of Utilities General Manager. The Board shall direct and
oversee the performance of the Utilities General Manager pursuant to this
subchapter. The Utilities General Manager shall report to the Board. The Board
shall at least annually prepare a written evaluation of performance, requesting
input from the Mayor and Council.
      (1)   The Board in executive session, or in open session if requested by
the Utilities General Manager, shall review the evaluation with the Utilities
General Manager. The Utilities General Manager shall have an opportunity to
respond orally or in writing to the written evaluation and to request review by
the Mayor and Council. As soon as practical thereafter, the Mayor and Council
shall in executive session review the evaluation of the Utilities General
Manager. The Chairperson of the Board shall be afforded an opportunity to
attend the executive session of Council for the purpose of explaining the
evaluation of the Utilities General Manager.
      (2)   Any disciplinary action taken by the Board against the Utilities
General Manager shall, at the Utilities General Manager’s written request, be
subject to review and appeal to the Council. The Utilities General Manager
shall not be terminated without prior approval of the Council.
   (D)   Relationship with city staff. The Board, Utilities General Manager and
staff shall remain independent of the City Manager and city administrative
staff. The Board shall report to and take direction only from the Council. The
Council shall consult with the Board directly and give great weight to
recommendations of the Board in all matters relevant to PUE. The Board may
defer to Council approval or ratification of any action or decision within the
Board’s authority. The Council shall notify PUE whenever any city committee,
task force, advisory or exploratory groups will meet to discuss issues which
may impact the utilities system.
   (E)   Facilities. Subject to this subchapter and purchasing procedures of
the state and city, the Board shall have authority to procure and erect all
necessary buildings, facilities, transmission and service lines, water and
sewer lines, make all necessary improvements and repairs and alter any existing
buildings for the use of PUE; provided, that all expenditures for new buildings
or alterations, other than ordinary repairs, shall be authorized by the PUE
budget approved annually by the Council.
   (F)   Legal counsel and other consultants. The Board or the Utilities
General Manager may retain legal counsel to represent PUE in any litigation,
dispute or controversy, or to represent the Board and PUE. Legal counsel may
provide advice and counsel in any matter concerning the management, conduct and
interests of PUE. The Board and the Utilities General Manager may use the City
Attorney whenever special knowledge or expertise relative to PUE is not
required, e.g., procurement, personnel and conflicts.
      (1)   The Council shall designate legal counsel retained by PUE as
special counsel for the city. The members of the Board and Council shall be
immune from liability pursuant to A.R.S. § 38-466. Legal counsel selected shall
provide proof of errors and omissions insurance and participate in a conflicts
of interest survey. Payment for legal fees and costs incurred by PUE shall be
made by PUE, and a line item for such expenditures shall be included in the PUE
annual budget unless Council specifically orders payment by the city.
      (2)   The Board or Utilities General Manager may also retain the services
of other qualified consultants and professionals.
   (G)   Litigation.
      (1)   In any dispute directly related to the operation of PUE or the
utility systems, the Board may institute or defend actions in the name of PUE
and the city. Any settlement or compromise of an action brought or defended by
the Board in an amount greater than $5,000 shall require approval of the
Council. The Council shall not enter into any settlement or compromise that
encumbers or hypothecates the utility systems or causes a failure or
curtailment of utility services.
      (2)   Any liability, damages, fines or other assessments directly related
to an action brought by or against PUE shall be paid by PUE from its reserves
and shall not be paid from the City General Fund unless so ordered by a court
of competent jurisdiction.
   (H)   Reports to Council. The Board shall provide the Council with regular
reports concerning its operations and shall keep the Council apprised of
important issues involving PUE. The Board shall promptly respond to requests
for information from the Mayor or Council.
   (I)   General contracts. Subject to the provisions of this subchapter and
the purchasing requirements of state law and city code, the Board shall have
authority to enter into contracts and other agreements in the name of Page
Utility Enterprises and to procure equipment, materials, labor, transmission
and supplies it deems necessary or advisable to the operation of PUE. The Board
shall not have authority to encumber city assets or obligate the city without
approval of the Council.
   (J)   Utility contracts.
      (1)   The Board has authority to negotiate on behalf of the city and PUE
for adequate or surplus power and water, as well as for the transmission of
power allocated to Page Utility Enterprises. Such negotiated contracts shall
not be binding until approved by the Council.
      (2)   In deliberating the merits of the contract, the Council may hold a
joint meeting with the Board and give great weight to the recommendation of the
Board. The Council may approve a utility contract even if the actual sales
price is subject to further negotiation or will be set at a later time in
accordance with a formula, index or other method of calculation. The Council
may authorize the Board or Utilities General Manager to set and bind the city
to the final price without further Council action if it is in the city’s best
interest. The Council may limit the authority of the Board and Utilities
General Manager by establishing parameters of acceptable price terms.
   (K)   Authority to provide utilities without charge. The Board shall have
authority to return surplus revenues to the ratepayers of PUE in the form of
utilities without charge. The Board shall not provide energy without charge if
the action would constitute a breach of any covenant or condition of any
revenue bond related to the city generally or PUE specifically. The Board shall
not provide energy without charge if the action would cause material financial
harm to PUE finances. Council shall retain the authority to approve or
disapprove a Board decision to provide energy without charge.
   (L)   Duties of Utilities General Manager.
      (1)   General obligations. Notwithstanding the provisions of §
33.20(E), the Utilities General Manager shall control and manage Page Utility
Enterprises and shall be responsible for the operation of PUE. The Utilities
General Manager shall report to and serve at the pleasure of the Board and
Council and shall not be subject to the jurisdiction of the City Manager. Upon
request of the Mayor or Council, the Utilities General Manager shall report on
affairs of PUE.
      (2)   System maintenance and inspection. The Utilities General Manager
shall maintain an effective inspection program of the utility systems and
remain informed of the affairs and management thereof.
      (3)   Coordination with City Manager. The Utilities General Manager and
the City Manager shall coordinate operations of PUE with operations of the city
to the end that economies of operation may be achieved. Council does not intend
to create supervisory authority of either manager over the other or their
respective staffs.
      (4)   Personnel. The Utilities General Manager shall be responsible for
hiring, retaining and managing PUE employees, consultants and other
professionals with due regard for their safety and training, all in accordance
with personnel and purchasing policies as provided by this subchapter, state
and federal law and the city code.
      (5)   Purchasing. Subject to the provisions of this subchapter, state law
and the city code, the Utilities General Manager shall be responsible for
ordering and maintaining an adequate inventory of specialized material and
equipment required by PUE.
      (6)   Customer relations. The Utilities General Manager shall have
authority to enforce Board approved rules and regulations pertaining to PUE
customers and ratepayers.
      (7)   Monthly reports. The Utilities General Manager shall submit a
monthly financial statement to the Board and Council.
      (8)   Surety bond. If required by the Board, the Utilities General
Manager shall furnish an approved corporate surety bond in an amount approved
by the Board and conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties
imposed upon the Utilities General Manager. Any premiums for such bond shall be
a proper charge against PUE.
(1976 Code, § 2-8-3) (Ord. 588-12, passed 5-9-2012; Ord. 640-17, passed 11-8-
2017)
§ 31.59 FINANCES AND PURCHASING.
   (A)   PUE finances.
      (1)   Council shall retain control and authority over PUE finances
through periodic reviews and other oversight to assure compliance with
applicable law, policies and procedures.
      (2)   (a)   The Board and Utilities General Manager shall have
responsibility over review and recommendations relating to PUE finances. The
Board or Utilities General Manager shall audit all bills, statements and
accounts payable of Page Utility Enterprises and shall order payment by the
Utilities General Manager in accordance with this subchapter, state law and the
city code. PUE shall provide Council a monthly summary report of its financial
activities with a courtesy copy to the City Manager. Neither the City Manager
nor the City Finance Director shall be responsible for the oversight or
supervision of the financial affairs of Page Utility Enterprises.
         (b)   The Board may retain an independent auditor, accountant or other
qualified financial consultant to monitor, analyze and advise the Board with
respect to PUE financial policies, procedures and performance.
   (B)   Operating and Reserve (Enterprise) Accounts.
      (1)   There shall be established a PUE Operating Account for the
operating revenue and expenses of Page Utility Enterprises. All revenues
received from any source shall be placed into this account, except revenues
designated for PUE reserves or the city user fee, if any.
      (2)   All revenues received for the PUE reserves shall be deposited or
invested in accordance with provisions of state law relative to surplus public
funds and shall be separately accounted for in an account labeled “PUE Reserve
Account”. The PUE Reserve Account shall be an enterprise fund or funds
designated only for the upkeep, repair, maintenance, expansion and capital
improvement of the PUE electric, water and sewer systems and/or the purchase
and sale of electric power and/or electric generation facilities. The PUE
Reserve Account shall be carried on the city’s books and on its annual audited
financial statement and annual budget with the following notation: “This
account is restricted for the upkeep, repair, maintenance, expansion and
capital improvement of the PUE electric, water and sewer systems and/or the
purchase and sale of electric power or electric generation facilities”.
   (C)   Annual budget.
      (1)   The Utilities General Manager shall prepare and present the annual
PUE operating budgets which shall be established to cover the cost of
maintaining and operating the electric, water and sewer systems, including a
proper and necessary allowance for depreciation, debt service and adequate
reserves in accordance with industry standards and generally accepted
accounting principles appropriate for utilities.
      (2)   Decisions of the Board relating to the PUE annual budget, rates,
finances and purchasing shall be made in strict compliance with policies and
procedures previously approved by the Council. The Board shall consider,
approve and forward the budget at least three weeks prior to the Council
meeting at which the city budget for the ensuing year is to be considered. The
Board and the Utilities General Manager shall provide additional information to
the Council upon request.
      (3)   The Council and Board should hold at least one joint meeting at
which the Board or its designees shall present its proposed budget. At such
meeting, the Board shall present in summary format the results of PUE
performance during the current fiscal year and the basis for its proposed
budget. In determining whether to approve the proposed PUE budget, the Council
shall limit its consideration to the needs of Page Utility Enterprises and
shall not consider or provide for the general revenue needs of the city.
   (D)   Purchasing. PUE purchases shall be governed by the purchasing
requirements of this subchapter, compulsory state law and the city code,
except:
      (1)   The Utilities General Manager shall replace the City Manager as
purchasing agent for PUE;
      (2)   Purchases above $300,000 shall be approved by the Board with a
monthly notice of all such purchases to be directed to the Mayor and Council;
and
      (3)   All purchases of $600,000 and above, excluding monthly power
purchase obligations or other obligations required by Council approved
contracts and agreements, are subject to Council approval.
   (E)   Annual audit.
      (1)   There shall be a consolidated annual audit of city and PUE
finances.
      (2)   The Auditor responsible shall inform the Chairperson of the Board
of the dates of the audit and shall direct a copy of the audit results to the
Utilities General Manager and the Chairperson of the Board.
      (3)   The Auditor selected to perform the consolidated annual audit shall
be knowledgeable in regard to accounting principles appropriate for utilities.
      (4)   The Board shall assure that the books and records of PUE are open
and available for review and inspection by the Auditor.
      (5)   Whenever an annual audit reveals a deficiency in the accounting
methods or books and records of PUE, whether or not material, the Board shall
diligently investigate and report its findings and conclusions to the Council
within 90 days of the date of the audit. Such findings and conclusions shall
include any remedial action the Board concludes is necessary or advisable under
the circumstances.
      (6)   The Council shall vote to accept, reject or modify the Board’s
findings and conclusions.
(1976 Code, § 2-8-4) (Ord. 588-12, passed 5-9-2012; Ord. 610-14, passed 7-9-
2014; Ord. 724-24, passed 2-14-2024)
§ 31.60 PERSONNEL.
   (A)   PUE employees shall be considered city employees of a separate
division subject to and governed by personnel policies of PUE, provided such
policies receive Council approval.
   (B)   Employment benefits of PUE employees may differ from employment
benefits available to city employees. The Utilities General Manager has
authority to determine the number, qualifications, salaries and benefits of all
PUE employees subject to the approval of the PUE Board and City Council.
Expenditures on personnel and employee related expenses shall remain within the
limits of the annual PUE budget approved by Council.
   (C)   The Utilities General Manager shall have authority to hire and
terminate PUE employees in accordance with PUE personnel policies. PUE employee
sanctions, including termination, may be appealed in the same manner as for
other city employees, except that the Utilities General Manager shall be
substituted for the City Manager in all respects. The City Director of Human
Resources shall be available to PUE for guidance and direction on all PUE
employment related issues.
(1976 Code, § 2-8-5) (Ord. 588-12, passed 5-9-2012)
§ 31.61 RATES, SETTING RATES; RESERVES; USER FEE.
   The following provisions shall strictly govern the establishment and review
of PUE rates and fees for all ratepayers.
   (A)   Setting rates.
      (1)   Council and the Board shall not consider the revenue needs of the
city in establishing the utility system rates, fees, charges and reserves.
Revenues derived from PUE rates shall not be used to subsidize the City General
Fund.
      (2)   Rates for utilities supplied through the utility system to the PUE
ratepayers shall be reasonable and just and shall be sufficient to cover costs
of operation, maintenance of the system, and a proper and necessary allowance
for depreciation and reserves. Rates shall be uniform for each class of
customer without regard to whether a ratepayer is located within or without the
city municipal limits. PUE rates shall be established with due consideration
accorded to the terms, covenants and conditions contained in any contract
related to PUE and any ordinance authorizing the issuance of utility revenue
bonds. Costs of operations, maintenance and depreciation shall be determined
using generally accepted accounting principles appropriate for utilities.
   (B)   PUE reserves. That portion of PUE rates collected for the
establishment of a reserve fund shall be separately identified in the rates and
shall be included as a separate line item on PUE customer invoices.
   (C)   City user fee.
      (1)   Council may set a separate user fee (“city user fee” or “franchise
fee”) assessable against each ratepayer of PUE. The city user fee shall be
established on a uniform basis according to class of customer without regard to
whether a ratepayer is located within or without the city municipal limits. The
city user fee may be established on either a flat fee or a demand basis.
      (2)   Upon request of Council, the Board shall prepare a city user fee or
franchise fee proposal and report to Council at the earliest practicable
opportunity as to the projected revenue from the proposed fee and the impact on
a typical ratepayer's annual utility bills. The Board may propose an
alternative fee or method of fee calculation. The Council shall give great
weight to the Board's report in making its determination of an appropriate city
user fee. The city user fee shall be indicated as a separate line item on PUE
invoices, labeled “city user fee” or “city franchise fee.”
      (3)   City user fee funds shall be collected by PUE and transferred at
least monthly to the City General Fund. PUE may, with Council approval, prepay
to the city, in whole or in part, the aggregate projected city user fee for any
period of time, in which event such prepayment shall be made from the PUE
Reserve Account; PUE shall collect and deposit into the PUE Reserve Account
monies collected from the city user fee until all prepaid amounts are
reimbursed in full, plus interest at a rate determined at the time of
prepayment by a joint motion of the Board and Council and recorded in the
minutes of each body. Revenues derived from the city user fee may be used for
general revenue purposes of the city and shall be considered unrestricted
funds. City user fee monies reimbursed to the PUE Reserve Account pursuant to
this section shall be restricted funds as provided in §
31.59(B).
   (D)   Annual rate review/rate change. The Board shall, at least annually,
review the rates, fees and charges, except the city user fee, of services
rendered by PUE. Any increase of rates or rate components, fees or service
charges shall only be implemented in accordance with the following procedures:
      (1)   The Board shall prepare a written report or supply data supporting
the increased rate or rate component, fee or service charge. The report or
supporting data shall include cash flow projections that indicate all
anticipated revenues from residential and nonresidential customers and the
overall expenses for providing electrical, water or wastewater service. A copy
of the report and cash flow projections shall be made available to the public
by filing a copy in the office of the City Clerk and posting the report and
cash flow projections on the city's and PUE's website at least 30 days before
the public hearing described in §
31.61(D)(2).
      (2)   The Council shall adopt a notice of intention by motion at a
regular Council meeting to increase rates or rate components, fees or service
charges and set a date for a public hearing on the proposed increase that shall
be held at least 60 days after adoption of the notice of intention. A copy of
the notice of intention showing the date, time and place of the hearing shall
be published one time in a newspaper of general circulation within the
boundaries of the city not less than 20 days before the public hearing date.
      (3)   After holding the public hearing, the Council may adopt by
resolution the proposed rate or rate component, fee or service charge increase
or any lesser increase.
      (4)   The increased rate or rate component, fee or service charge shall
become effective not less than 30 days after adoption of the resolution.
(1976 Code, § 2-8-6) (Ord. 588-12, passed 5-9-2012; Ord. 720-23, passed 11-15-
2023)
CHAPTER 32: POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Section
Initiative and Referendum
   
32.001   Power reserved; time of election
   
32.002   Manner of exercising initiative and referendum
Purchasing Procedure
   
32.015   General purchasing procedures
   
32.016   Definitions
   
32.017   Exclusive service
   
32.018   Bidding
   
32.019   Determination of lowest responsible bidder
   
32.020   Payment and performance bonds
   
32.021   Emergency purchases
   
32.022   Forms
   
32.023   Competitive bidding exemptions
   
32.024   Cooperative purchasing
Disposition of Public Property
   
32.035   Authority to initiate the sale or lease of real property
   
32.036   Manner of sale of real property
   
32.037   Conditions precedent to sale of real property
   
32.038   Exchange of land
   
32.039   Lease of city property
   
32.040   Authority to subdivide
   
32.041   Disposal of surplus personal property
Disposition of City Property for a Public Purpose
   
32.055   Authority to lease, sell, convey, exchange or otherwise dispose of
property
   
32.056   Manner of disposition
Utilization of City Property for Revenue-Producing Activities
   
32.070   Purpose
   
32.071   Definitions
   
32.072   Permits
   
32.073   General minimum standards for all permittees
Use of City Property for Film or Tape Production Activity
   
32.085   Purpose
   
32.086   Definitions
   
32.087   Permits
   
32.088   General minimum standards for all permittees
 
   
32.999   Penalty
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
§ 32.001 POWER RESERVED; TIME OF ELECTION.
   (A)   There is reserved to the qualified electors of the city the power of
the initiative and the referendum as prescribed by state law.
   (B)   Any initiative or referendum matter may be voted on at the next
ensuing primary or general election, or at a special election called by the
Council for such purpose.
(Prior Code, § 2-9-1)
§ 32.002 MANNER OF EXERCISING INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM.
   (A)   The total number of registered voters qualified to vote at the last
municipal election, whether regular or special, immediately preceding the date
upon which any initiative petition is filed, shall be the basis upon which the
number of qualified electors of the city required to file an initiative
petition shall be computed.
   (B)   The basis upon which the number of qualified electors of the city
required to file a referendum petition shall be as determined by state law.
(Prior Code, § 2-9-2) (Ord. 534-08, passed 5-8-2008)
PURCHASING PROCEDURE
§ 32.015 GENERAL PURCHASING PROCEDURES.
   No purchase, contract for services of any kind or description, lease or
lease-purchase, payment for which is to be made from funds of the city, shall
be made by the purchasing agent, or any officer, employee or agent of the city
except in the manner set forth in this subchapter. The total cost of an item,
not the method of payment, determines the method of procurement. Artificial
division, splitting, or fragmentation of a transaction to circumvent source
selection or to avoid requirements for bidding or authorization of procurement
is prohibited.
   (A)   Under $15,000. Whenever any contemplated purchase, contract for
services, lease or lease-purchase, is for the sum of less than $15,000, the
purchasing agent of the city may order the items as needed without further
delay.
   (B)   $15,000 to $100,000 inclusive. Whenever any contemplated purchase,
contract for services, lease or lease-purchase, is for the sum of $15,000 and
not more than $100,000, the purchase may be made by the purchasing agent
without the requirements of public notification by advertisement. The
purchasing agent shall make reasonable efforts to obtain three informal
competitive quotations, in writing, from available suppliers.
   (C)   Over $100,000. Whenever any contemplated purchase, contract for
services, lease or lease-purchase, is for the sum of more than $100,000, the
purchasing agent shall cause to be published in one issue of a newspaper of
general circulation in the city, notice inviting bids, which notices shall be
published at least ten days prior to the date set for the receipt of the bids.
The notice required shall include a general description of the articles to be
purchased or services performed and the time and place of opening bids. In
addition, the purchasing agent shall post a notice inviting bids on the
official city website, and may also notify all responsible prospective
suppliers of the items to be purchased, services performed, or lease or lease-
purchase. The bidding requirements of this section shall not apply to used
vehicles, used equipment, and other used personal property, upon written
substantiation that the item or items to be purchased are only sporadically or
occasionally available for purchase, and due to the sporadic nature of
availability, the purchase via bidding or other competition would not be
advantageous. In such situations, the purchasing agent shall obtain three
quotations of similar vehicles, property, or equipment, if possible.
   (D)   No contract in excess of $100,000. Except in an emergency, any
purchase contract, lease, or lease-purchase in excess of $100,000 shall be by
the Council.
   (E)   All purchases. All purchases for the Page Utility Enterprises shall
meet the same requirements as items divisions (A) through (D) above, except as
provided in §
31.59(D). For PUE purchases, the “City Manager” will be replaced by the
Utilities General Manager; the “City Council” will be replaced by the Page
Utilities Board and “City Hall” will be replaced by the “Page Utility
Enterprises Office”.
   (F)   Changes. Any changes made to the purchasing policy shall be forwarded
to the Chief Financial Officer of Page Utility Enterprises by the City Finance
Director.
(1976 Code, § 3-4-1) (Ord. 384-00, passed 2-10-2000; Ord. 580-12, passed 1-26-
2012; Ord. 601-13, passed 4-24-2013; Ord. 653-19, passed 2-13-2019; Ord. 698-
22, passed 9-28-2022; Ord. 725-24, passed 3-13-2024; Ord. 727-24, passed 4-10-
2024)
§ 32.016 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUE PURCHASING AGENT. The PUE General Manager or his or her designee.
   PURCHASE. To obtain a single article or unit.
   PURCHASING AGENT. The City Manager or his or her designee.
   UNIT. A group of articles which, when combined, produce a complete product,
regardless of the number of suppliers or the number of purchase orders needed
to complete the unit.
(1976 Code, § 3-10) (Ord. 217-88, passed 11-9-1988; Ord. 384-00, passed 2-10-
2000; Ord. 653-19, passed 2-13-2019)
§ 32.017 EXCLUSIVE SERVICE.
    In the event that there is only one firm or company or individual capable
of providing a particular service or commodity and such services or commodities
cannot be secured from other persons or companies then §
32.015 and §
32.015(A), (B), and (C) thereunder shall not be applicable and such services or
commodities can be secured without bidding.
(1976 Code, § 3-4-2) (Ord. 653-19, passed 2-13-2019)
§ 32.018 BIDDING.
    The purchasing agent and all parties contracting with the city shall follow
the procedure hereinafter set forth in relation to all bids required under §
32.015(B) and (C).
   (A)   All notices and solicitation of bids shall state the time and place
for opening.
   (B)   All bids shall be submitted sealed to the purchasing agent and shall
be identified as bids on the envelope.
   (C)   All bids shall be opened in public at the time and place stated in the
public notices.
   (D)   A modification or withdrawal of a bid must be received before the time
and date set for bid opening in the location designated for receipt of bids.
   (E)   After the bid opening, a mistake may not be corrected or withdrawal
allowed except:
      (1)   In the case of a mathematical error, the unit cost shall prevail
and any correction(s) required due to that error shall be done by the city;
      (2)   The bid may not be withdrawn and shall be corrected to the intended
bid only if a bid mistake and the intended bid are evident on the face of the
bid, as determined solely by the city; and
      (3)   The city may permit a respondent to withdraw a response if the
respondent establishes by clear and convincing evidence that a mistake was made
and the intended bid is not clear, or that the bid is so low that the contract
cannot be completed and its enforcement would be unconscionable.
   (F)   The purchasing agent shall have the authority to reject any and all
bids and parts of all bids and re-advertise or re-solicit bids.
(1976 Code, § 3-4-3) (Ord. 653-19, passed 2-13-2019)
§ 32.019 DETERMINATION OF LOWEST RESPONSIBLE BIDDER.
   (A)   Unless the purchasing agent exercises the right of rejection, the
purchase or contract shall be made from and with the lowest responsible bidder
for any article or to the lowest responsible bidder for the entire purchase or
contract for any part thereof.
   (B)   In determining the lowest responsible bidder, the purchasing agent
shall consider:
      (1)   The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract or provide service required;
      (2)   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the services
promptly or within specified time, without delay or interference;
      (3)   The quality of performance of previous contracts or services;
      (4)   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances of the city;
      (5)   The financial resources and ability of the bidder to perform the
contract or provide the service; and
      (6)   The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies or
services.
(1976 Code, § 3-4-4)
§ 32.020 PAYMENT AND PERFORMANCE BONDS.
   The purchasing agent shall have the authority to require a payment and/or
performance bond, in cash or otherwise, for such amount as he or she may deem
sufficient to secure the execution of the contract of furnishing supplies or
services for the best interest of the city. For construction services, the
purchasing agent may waive all or part of the requirements for payment and/or
performance bonds in projects up to $100,000 in accordance with A.R.S. § 41-
2574, which is incorporated herein by reference.
(1976 Code, § 3-4-5) (Ord. 653-19, passed 2-13-2019)
§ 32.021 EMERGENCY PURCHASES.
   In case of an emergency which requires immediate purchases of supplies or
services and time is of the essence the City Manager shall be empowered to
authorize the purchasing agent to purchase or secure the services needed
without complying with procedures as set forth above. A full report in writing
of the circumstances of an emergency purchase shall be filed by the City
Manager with the City Council.
(1976 Code, § 3-4-6)
§ 32.022 FORMS.
   The purchasing agent subject to the approval of the City Manager shall
prescribe and maintain such forms as he or she shall find necessary to the
operation of this subchapter.
(1976 Code, § 3-4-7)
§ 32.023 COMPETITIVE BIDDING EXEMPTIONS.
   Nothing in this section shall preclude the solicitation of competitive bids
or proposals. Nevertheless, exemptions from competitive bidding requirements
include:
   (A)   Professional or specialized services, including, but not limited to,
advertising, appraisers, architects, attorneys, consultants, certified public
accountants, engineers, entertainers, financial and operational audits,
physicians and other health professionals, land surveyors, landscape
architects, renewals of proprietary computer hardware and software licensing,
and trainers or teachers;
   (B)   Bonds;
   (C)   Procurements funded by grants, donations, or gifts when the special
conditions attached to the grants, donations, or gifts require the procurement
of particular goods and/or services;
   (D)   Works of art, entertainment, or performance;
   (E)   Intergovernmental payments, purchases, and agreements;
   (F)   Membership dues, conventions, training, and travel arrangements;
   (G)   Advertisements in magazines, newspapers, or other media;
   (H)   Goods procured for resale to the public;
   (I)   Public utility purchases of water, power, and related services; and
   (J)   The purchase of real property and ancillary services related thereto,
such as title insurance, appraisals, or environmental assessments to the extent
that they are negotiated as part of the contract for purchase of real property.
(1976 Code, § 3-4-8) (Ord. 653-19, passed 2-13-2019)
§ 32.024 COOPERATIVE PURCHASING.
   This subchapter and requirements herein shall not apply to purchases made
by, through or with any public procurement unit, including any government
entity or agency, or a nonprofit educational or health institution; or to
purchases pursuant to a cooperative purchasing agreement with any public
procurement unit; or as otherwise permitted by Arizona law.
(1976 Code, § 3-4-9) (Ord. 389-99, passed 4-29-1999; Ord. 636-17, passed 8-30-
2017)
DISPOSITION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY
§ 32.035 AUTHORITY TO INITIATE THE SALE OR LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Council may initiate the sale or lease of real property by
publicly identifying and posting those city-owned properties that are not
needed or likely to be needed by the city within a reasonable period of time. A
map identifying the properties for sale or lease shall at the direction of
Council be posted on the city web site and be available in published form
through the Clerk’s office.
   (B)   A third party may request to purchase or lease city-owned property not
identified and posted “For Sale or Lease.” Any party desiring to make such a
purchase shall furnish such preliminary information as necessary to allow the
Council to evaluate the proposal.
(1976 Code, § 3-5-1) (Ord. 456-03, passed 5-8-2003; Ord. 655-19, passed 2-13-
2019)
§ 32.036 MANNER OF SALE OF REAL PROPERTY.
   Real property may be sold by the city in any of the following ways.
   (A)   By negotiation.
      (1)   All property sales consummated pursuant to negotiation shall be
approved by ordinance of the Council.
      (2)   All properties identified and posted “For Sale” by Council, shall
be sold without regard to identity of the purchaser, intended use or schedule
for development.
      (3)   Purchasers of all city-owned property shall be responsible for
providing a survey and an appraisal completed by a certified general appraiser
licensed in Arizona.
      (4)   Proposed purchase agreements shall be presented by the purchaser
through city staff to the Council for negotiation and approval. Council may
approve a sale based on appraised value presented or seek another appraisal
prior to further negotiation. Once Council has approved the sale of property, a
formal written agreement shall not be consummated until publication and comment
periods have expired.
      (5)   The City Clerk shall publish in a paper of general circulation in
the city a “Notice of Sale of City Property” to be published once a week for
two consecutive weeks. The City Clerk shall also post a copy of the notice in
at least three public places in the city. The notice shall contain the names of
the purchasers, a general and legal description of the property to be sold and
the sales price. Any other purchaser may, before the expiration of publication
and comment periods, present a proposed purchase agreement which shall include
earnest money in a minimum amount of 10% of the sales price. Such a proposal
shall have the effect of abating the published sale until further negotiations
have been completed. Council may negotiate the sale in the best interest of the
city.
      (6)   At the next regular meeting of the City Council after the required
publication, the Council may approve the ordinance for the sale of the
identified property. Council may not thereafter consider other offers to
purchase the identified property unless the acts or omissions of the purchaser
would preclude the close of escrow.
      (7)   If the Council approves the ordinance, a formal written agreement
to purchase shall be executed and the sale concluded.
      (8)   All land sales agreements shall contain an acknowledgment by the
purchaser that the purchased property is subject to use and development
restrictions imposed by the City of Page General Plan, the General Development
and Subdivision Regulations, city zoning ordinance, the Gateway Area Specific
Development Plan, city adopted building codes and other applicable state and
federal laws.
      (9)   Any state real estate broker representing a purchaser prior to an
initial offer will at the close of escrow be paid a 3% commission based on the
sales price. Exclusive real estate sales agreements for the sale of city
property shall not be permitted.
   (B)   By sealed bid or public auction. Upon resolution of the Council, the
City Clerk shall be authorized to proceed with the sale of real property, under
this section, as follows.
      (1)   If the value is less than $25,000, as appraised, the property may
be sold by sealed bid or by public auction as determined by the Council.
      (2)   If the value is more than $25,000, as appraised, the property shall
be sold at public auction to the highest bidder.
      (3)   At least 30 days prior to sale or disposition of property by sealed
bid or auction, the City Clerk shall cause to be published in the official
newspaper of the city a notice of sale of such property. The notice of sale
shall be a brief description of the property, the hour, date and place of sale
or disposition, and may also include the location where bid blanks and
specifications may be secured, the location of the property, the conditions of
sale and any restrictions placed on the use of the property as well as other
such information considered relevant by the Council. The notice shall be
published once each week for three consecutive weeks if in a weekly newspaper,
with not less than 20 days intervening between the first and last publication
and if in a daily newspaper, six consecutive times. The City Clerk shall also
post a copy of the notice in at least three public places in the city.
      (4)   Bids:
         (a)   The minimum acceptable bid shall be determined by resolution of
the Council;
         (b)   Sealed bids shall be accompanied by a cashier’s check payable to
the city for 10% of the bid which check will be returned to the bidder if
unsuccessful;
         (c)   All bidders at an auction shall, prior to the auction, furnish
the auctioneer with a cashier check payable to the city for 10% of the
appraisal value which check will be returned to the bidder if unsuccessful;
         (d)   Such sales shall be made to the highest bidder, but the Council
shall have the right to reject any and all bids; and
         (e)   The sale shall be binding upon the city only upon award of the
bid and delivery of the quit claim deed to the successful bidder, and no other
action of the city or its representatives shall be construed to vest any right,
title or interest to or in said property in any person prior to said delivery
of the deed. Said award or rejection of the bid shall be made by the Council at
the next regular Council meeting following the bidding.
   (C)   Sale of slivers.
      (1)   If the value of the property is less than $10,000 as appraised, and
the property is not marketable to the general public because no one other than
an adjoining property owner can, within the Zoning Code of the city, lawfully
utilize the property, as determined by the City Council, and if there is no
other adjoining property owner who desires to purchase the property, the
property may be sold to the adjoining property owner for its appraised value
without the necessity for a public sale, either by auction or sealed bid.
      (2)   The manner of sale to the adjoining property owner shall proceed in
compliance with this subchapter, except that the contents of the notice of sale
shall be modified so as to advise the public of the proposed sale to a
particular individual. The sale shall thereafter be made to the individual at
the time contained within the notice of sale. If there is more than one
adjoining property owner who may lawfully utilize the property in connection
with his or her adjoining property and they each desire to purchase the
property, then, and only in that event, the property shall be sold at sealed
bid in accordance with this section except that the only qualified bidders upon
the parcel of property to be sold shall be the adjoining property owners who
qualify as a bidder in accordance with this division (C).
(1976 Code, § 3-5-2) (Ord. 183-87, passed - -; Ord. 352-96, passed 12-19-1996;
Ord. 456-03, passed 5-8- 2003; Ord. 655-19, passed 2-13-2019)
§ 32.037 CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO SALE OF REAL PROPERTY.
   No sale of real property shall be made until the following conditions
precedent have been complied with.
   (A)   Survey. The property has been surveyed.
   (B)   Appraisal. An appraisal of the value of the property has been obtained
from an Arizona certified general appraiser appropriately licensed or certified
for the type of real property being appraised for all property to be sold;
provided however, if the land to be sold has been previously appraised within
the last 18 months, a new appraisal may not be required for the purposes
herein.
   (C)   Conformance to ordinances of the city. The Council may require review
by any municipal departments, boards, or commissions.
(1976 Code, § 3-5-3) (Ord. 239-89, passed 8-10-1989; Ord. 392-99, passed 9-16-
1999; Ord. 655-19, passed 2-13-2019)
§ 32.038 EXCHANGE OF LAND.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of this subchapter, the city may exchange any
real property by resolution of the City Council. Written records of such
exchange, including any appraisals and reasons for the exchange shall be
maintained and open to public inspection for at least three years in the City
Clerk’s Office.
(1976 Code, § 3-5-4) (Ord. 12, passed 11-15-1975; Ord. 655-19, passed 2-13-
2019)
§ 32.039 LEASE OF CITY PROPERTY.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city that public land or buildings shall be
leased in a way that maximizes the value of city assets, promotes activities
and uses that are in the overall best interest of the city, and are consistent
with the General Plan. The Council may lease any land or buildings now or
hereafter owned by the city on such terms and conditions, including an option
to purchase, as the Council may prescribe by public auction, sealed bids or
negotiation. All leases made pursuant to public auction or sealed bids shall be
made to the highest responsible bidder at the highest rental bid, after notice
thereof in accordance with §
32.036(B), stating explicitly the time and conditions of the proposed lease.
The Council may, in its discretion, reject any and all bids.
   (B)   All leases made pursuant to negotiation shall be approved by
resolution of the Council, unless otherwise specified herein. Prior to the
approval and execution of such a lease, the Council shall publish in a paper of
general circulation in the city, a notice of intent to lease city property once
each week for two consecutive weeks if in a weekly paper, with not less than
six days intervening between the first and last publication and if in a daily
paper, four consecutive times. The City Clerk shall also post a copy of the
notice in at least three public places in the city. The notice shall, at a
minimum, contain the names of the parties to the proposed lease, a general
description and address of the property to be leased, the proposed use of the
property, the term of the lease and the rental amount of the proposed lease.
The cost of publication shall be paid by the proposed tenant of the lease.
Airport hangar leases, leases based upon a fee schedule adopted by the Council,
and leases of nominal value, which shall be deemed leases of less than $2,000
of annual lease revenue, are exempt from the publication requirements. Leases
with only one interested party that are based upon a published fee schedule
adopted by Council may be approved the City Manager.
   (C)   In the event the city receives a written objection to the award of a
negotiated lease, within the publication period, the proposed lease shall be
abated until further negotiations or a public auction has been completed. All
notices of intent to lease shall contain the information regarding written
objections and the manner therefor.
(1976 Code, § 3-5-5) (Ord. 183-87, passed - -; Ord. 626-15, passed 10-28-2015;
Ord. 655-19, passed 2-13-2019)
§ 32.040 AUTHORITY TO SUBDIVIDE.
   The Council may also in its discretion subdivide and plat city property, in
accordance with the Subdivision Code of the city which it determines to sell,
providing restrictions relative to its use and dedicate streets and alleys as
determined necessary for the use of the public.
(1976 Code, § 3-5-6) (Ord. 12, passed 11-15-1975)
§ 32.041 DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any surplus personal property may be disposed of by the City Manager,
or authorized designee, in the best interest of the city as follows:
      (1)   Sold at auction;
      (2)   Property may traded for credit against new purchases;
      (3)   Establish the fair market value and sell the property through
advertisement; or
      (4)   Contact persons dealing in the property for consignment
consideration or other interested persons and take written offers, disposing of
the property to the person making the most advantageous offer.
   (B)   Any property that is disposed of that has a value of more than $2,500
shall be reported to the Council.
   (C)   No individual, city employee, elected or appointed official, city
office or agency shall sell, transfer, trade in, condemn, or otherwise dispose
of any city personal property without authorization from the City Manager.
   (D)   Any disposal of surplus personal property by Page Utility Enterprises
shall follow the same requirements as those set forth in divisions (A) through
(C) above, except that the "City Manager" will be replaced by the "Utilities
General Manager" and the "City Council" will be replaced by the "Page Utilities
Board."
(Ord. 655-19, passed 2-13-2019; Ord. 679-21, passed 3-24-2021)
DISPOSITION OF CITY PROPERTY FOR A PUBLIC PURPOSE
§ 32.055 AUTHORITY TO LEASE, SELL, CONVEY, EXCHANGE OR OTHERWISE DISPOSE OF
PROPERTY.
   The City Council is authorized to lease, sell, convey, exchange and
otherwise dispose of any real or personal property owned by the city in the
manner, for such consideration, and upon such conditions as may be determined
by the Council to the United States, the state, political subdivisions of the
state, including, but not limited to, school districts and hospital districts,
and such other individuals, associations or corporations where the lease, sale,
conveyance, exchange or disposition is for a public purpose.
(1976 Code, § 3-6-1) (Ord. 66-82, passed 1-12-1982)
§ 32.056 MANNER OF DISPOSITION.
   Any disposition of property made pursuant to §
32.055 shall be by an ordinance of the City Council of the city.
(1976 Code, § 3-6-2) (Ord. 66-82, passed 1-12-1982)
UTILIZATION OF CITY PROPERTY FOR REVENUE-PRODUCING ACTIVITIES
§ 32.070 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide rules and regulations for the
use of city property for revenue producing activities where such activity is of
a short duration and not to be conducted pursuant to a lease of city property.
(1976 Code, § 3-7-1) (Ord. 89, passed 7-26-1983)
§ 32.071 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVING AGENCY. The City Council or its designee.
   PERMIT. Any written license issued by or under the authority of the
approving agency permitting a special event or activity on city property.
   PERSON. Any natural person, corporation, company, association, joint stock
association, firm or co-partnership.
   SOLICITATION. Soliciting or selling goods or services by sample or taking
orders for future delivery with or without accepting advance payment for the
goods. Person seeking any form of contributions.
   VEHICLE. Any conveyance, including motor vehicles, trailers of all types,
campers, motorized pushcarts or vehicles propelled by horse or horse-drawn
conveyance.
   VENDING. Selling or trading any items or services.
(1976 Code, § 3-7-2) (Ord. 89, passed 7-26-1983; Ord. 298-94, passed 4-28-1994)
§ 32.072 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall utilize any portion of city property for revenue
producing activities or solicit funds for any business or for any activity
involving public assemblage, exhibitions, concerts or entertainment except by
conducting the activity pursuant to a permit issued by the approving agency
provided that no permit shall be required for any action or event sponsored by
the city.
   (B)   All permits issued hereunder shall be issued prior to the scheduled
activity and are non-transferable. The approving agency may decline to issue a
permit, however, when public safety personnel and other accommodations cannot
be provided given the untimely application for the permits.
(1976 Code, § 3-7-3) (Ord. 89, passed 7-26-1983; Ord. 555-10, passed 1-28-2010)
Penalty, see §
32.999
§ 32.073 GENERAL MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR ALL PERMITTEES.
   All activities conducted pursuant to a permit required hereby shall be
conducted in accordance with the following minimum standards.
   (A)   To qualify as a permittee, the permittee must demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the approving agency that he or she has sufficient experience
in the proposed activity to properly conduct such activity.
   (B)   The permittee shall, prior to exercising the privileges of the permit,
and during the term of his or her permit, be current on state, federal and
local licenses required at each phase of his or her activity and comply at all
times during the term of the permit with all state, federal and local laws and
regulations.
   (C)   The permittee, prior to entering the premises, shall provide the city
with a minimum of $1,000,000 single limit bodily injury and property damage
liability insurance on said premises in companies satisfactory to the city. The
city shall be named “additional insured” and provided with a copy of the
additional insured endorsement for any and all policies. The city shall be
given at least ten days prior written notice of policy alterations,
cancellations or deletions.
   (D)   Special event permits granted hereunder shall be valid for a maximum
period of 30 calendar days. Seasonal permits shall be valid for the inclusive
dates of issuance but not to exceed a period of 12 calendar months. The
governing agency shall establish the hours, days and location of the activity.
   (E)   Fees and charges for permits, public safety support and other special
accommodations shall be assessed for all special events and seasonal activities
where applicable. The fees and charges shall be periodically set by resolution
of the City Council and shall not be based on gross receipts of the permittee.
   (F)   Each permittee shall be responsible for and pay for all utility
services provided to the premises.
   (G)   Each permittee shall be responsible for the maintenance of the
premises and all improvements thereon to the satisfaction of the city,
returning the premises to the city in as neat and clean condition as when
obtained by the permittee. Said cleaning to be complete by the end of the last
day of the activity unless a different time period is granted in writing by the
city.
   (H)   The permittee shall provide such sanitary facilities for the public as
required to handle the anticipated crowd in compliance with applicable health
and sanitary codes.
   (I)   The permit may contain such additional conditions as are reasonably
consistent with protection and use of city property for the purposes for which
it is maintained. It may also contain reasonable limitations on the time and
area within which the activity is permitted.
   (J)   The city reserves the right to waive any or all minimum standards
contained herein for activities conducted solely by non-profit organizations as
defined by I.R.C. § 501, being 26 U.S.C. § 501.
(1976 Code, § 3-7-4) (Ord. 89, passed 7-26-1983; Ord. 298-94, passed 4-28-1994;
Ord. 555-10, passed 1-28-2010)
USE OF CITY PROPERTY FOR FILM OR TAPE PRODUCTION ACTIVITY
§ 32.085 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide rules and regulations for the
use of city property for film or tape production activity where such activity
is of a short duration and not to be conducted pursuant to a lease of city
property.
(1976 Code, § 3-8-1)
§ 32.086 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVING OFFICER. The City Manager.
   PERMIT. Any written license issued by or under the authority of the
approving officer permitting a film or tape production activity on city
property.
   PERSON. Any natural person, corporation, company, association, joint stock
association, firm or co-partnership.
(1976 Code, § 3-8-2)
§ 32.087 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall utilize any portion of city property for film or tape
production activities except by conducting the activity pursuant to a permit
issued by the approving officer provided that no permit shall be required for
any action or event sponsored by the city.
   (B)   All permits issued hereunder shall be issued for a specified period
including in the permit. Permits are nontransferable.
(1976 Code, § 3-8-3)
§ 32.088 GENERAL MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR ALL PERMITTEES.
   All activities conducted pursuant to a permit required hereby shall be
conducted in accordance with the following minimum standards.
   (A)   To qualify as a permittee, the permittee must demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the approving agency that he or she has sufficient experience
in the proposed activity to properly conduct such activity.
   (B)   The permittee shall, prior to exercising the privileges of the permit,
and during the term of his or her permit, be current on state, federal and
local licenses required at each phase of his activity and comply at all time
during the term of the permit with all state, federal and local laws and
regulations.
   (C)   The permittee, prior to entering the premises, shall provide the city
with a minimum of $1,000,000 single limit bodily injury and property damages
liability insurance on said premises in companies satisfactory to the city. The
city shall be named “additional insured” and provided with a copy of the
additional insured endorsement for any and all policies. The city shall be
given at least ten days’ prior written notice of policy alterations,
cancellations or deletions.
   (D)   No permit granted hereunder shall be valid for a term other than as
specified in the permit. The approving officer shall establish the hours, days
and location of the activity.
   (E)   Each permittee shall be responsible for and pay for all utility
services provided to the premises.
   (F)   Each permittee shall be responsible for the maintenance of the
premises and all improvements thereon to the satisfaction of the city,
returning the premises to the city in as neat and clean condition as when
obtained by the permittee. Said cleaning to be complete within 24 hours of the
completion of the activity.
   (G)   The permittee shall provide such sanitary facilities for the public as
required to handle the anticipated crowd in compliance with applicable health
and sanitary codes.
   (H)   The permit may contain such additional conditions as are reasonably
consistent with protection and use of city property for the purposes for which
it is maintained. It may also contain reasonable limitations on the time and
area within which the activity is permitted.
   (I)   The city reserves the right to waive any or all minimum standards
contained herein for activities conducted solely by non-profit organizations as
defined by I.R.C. § 501.
(1976 Code, § 3-8-4) (Ord. 704-23, passed 4-12-2023)
§ 32.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
32.070 through
32.073 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and each person shall be deemed
guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during
which any violation of any of the provisions of §§
32.070 through
32.073 is committed, continued or permitted and upon conviction of any such
violation such person shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $300 or by
imprisonment for not more than 90 days or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(1976 Code, § 3-7-5)
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
32.085 through
32.088 shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or
portion thereof during which any violation of any of the provisions of §§
32.085 through
32.088 is committed, continued or permitted and upon conviction of any such
violation such person shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $300 or by
imprisonment for not more than 90 days or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(1976 Code, § 3-8-5)
(Ord. 89, passed 7-26-1983)
CHAPTER 33: OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Officers
   
33.02   Treasurer and Collector of Taxes
   
33.03   Additional officers
   
33.04   Bond
   
33.05   Vacancies; holding more than one office
   
33.06   Additional powers and duties
Officers
   
33.20   City Manager
   
33.21   City Clerk
   
33.22   City Marshal
   
33.23   City Engineer
   
33.24   City Attorney
   
33.25   City Magistrate
Personnel System
   
33.40   Creation and scope
   
33.41   Conditions of employment
   
33.42   Rules and regulations
   
33.43   Political contributions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 OFFICERS.
   There are hereby created the offices of City Manager, City Clerk, City
Marshal, City Engineer, City Attorney and City Magistrate, who shall be
appointed by the Council. The City Manager, City Clerk, City Marshal, City
Engineer and City Attorney shall serve at the pleasure of the Council.
(1976 Code, § 3-1-1) (Ord. 142, passed 7-9-1985)
§ 33.02 TREASURER AND COLLECTOR OF TAXES.
   The City Clerk shall act as Treasurer and the City Marshal shall act as
Collector of Taxes.
(1976 Code, § 3-1-2)
§ 33.03 ADDITIONAL OFFICERS.
   The Council may appoint and remove from time to time such other officers as
it may deem necessary and that are not provided for in this code or state
statute.
(1976 Code, § 3-1-3)
§ 33.04 BOND.
   (A)   The Council shall require each officer of the city to give bond for
the due discharge of his or her duties in such sums and with such security as
it may direct and approve as determined by resolution and the city shall pay
the costs of such bond.
   (B)   In the alternative, the City Manager may, at the direction of the
Mayor and the City Council, procure insurance coverage from city underwriters
sufficient to meet or exceed the foregoing statutory bond requirements.
(1976 Code, § 3-1-4) (Ord. 533-08, passed 4-10-2008)
§ 33.05 VACANCIES; HOLDING MORE THAN ONE OFFICE.
   Any vacancy that shall occur in any city office shall be filled by
appointment by the Council; provided, that one person may hold more than one
office and that at the discretion of the Council, the functions of a city
official may be validly performed and discharged by a deputy or another city
official, or an otherwise qualified individual not holding office but employed
at the pleasure of the Council.
(1976 Code, § 3-1-5)
§ 33.06 ADDITIONAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   In addition to any powers and duties prescribed in this code, each officer
shall have such further powers, perform such further duties and hold such other
office as may be provided by the Council through ordinance, resolution or
order.
(1976 Code, § 3-1-6)
OFFICERS
§ 33.20 CITY MANAGER.
   (A)   Office created. The office of the City Manager of the city is hereby
created and established. The City Manager shall be appointed by the Council
wholly on the basis of his or her administrative and executive ability and
qualifications and shall hold office for and at the pleasure of the Council.
   (B)   Bond. The City Manager shall furnish a corporate surety bond to be
approved by the Council in such sum as may be determined by the Council, and
shall be conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties imposed upon
the Manager as herein prescribed. Any premium for such bond shall be a proper
charge against the city.
   (C)   Compensation. The City Manager shall receive such compensation as the
Council shall fix from time to time.
   (D)   Removal procedure. The City Manager may be removed by a majority vote
of the entire Council, but the Council shall continue the City Manager’s salary
for 60 days following the removal date unless removal procedures and salary
provisions are otherwise provided for by the employment agreement.
   (E)   Powers and duties. The City Manager shall be the administrative head
of the government of the city under the direction and control of the Council
except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
      (1)   He or she shall be responsible to the Council for the proper
administration of all affairs of the city.
      (2)   In addition to his or her general powers as administrative head and
not as a limitation thereon, it shall be his or her duty and he or she shall
have the powers set forth in the following divisions:
         (a)   Appoint and, when necessary for the good of the service, suspend
or remove all officers and employees of the city not appointed by the Council.
He or she may authorize the head of a department or office to appoint, suspend
or remove subordinates in such department or office;
         (b)   Prepare the budget annually and submit it to the Council
together with a message describing the important features and be responsible
for its administration after adoption;
         (c)   Prepare and submit to the Council at the end of the fiscal year
a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the city the
preceding year;
         (d)   Keep the Council advised of the financial condition and future
needs of the city and make such recommendations as he or she may deem
desirable;
         (e)   Recommend to the governing body a standard schedule of pay for
each appointive office and position in the city service, including minimum,
intermediate and maximum rates. Authorize the payment of overtime pay for such
employees as may work in excess of a normal work period. Such rates of pay and
periods of work shall be in conformity with wages and salaries enacted by the
City Council;
         (f)   Recommend to the governing body from time to time adoption of
such measures as he or she may deem necessary or expedient for the health,
safety or welfare of the community or for the improvement of administrative
services;
         (g)   Create, consolidate or combine offices, positions, departments
or units under his or her jurisdiction, with the approval of the Council. The
Manager may be the head of one or more departments;
         (h)   Attend all meetings of the Council unless excused therefrom, and
take part in the discussion of all matters coming before the Council. He or she
shall be entitled to notice of all regular and special meetings of the Council;
         (i)   Supervise the acquisition of all materials, supplies and
equipment for which funds are provided in the budget whether it be by purchase,
lease purchase or lease;
         (j)   In case of accident, disaster or other circumstances creating a
public emergency, the Manager may award contracts and make purchases for the
purpose of meeting said emergency; but he or she shall file promptly with the
Council a certificate showing such emergency and the necessity for such action,
together with an itemized account of all expenditures;
         (k)   See that all laws and ordinances are duly enforced;
         (l)   Investigate the affairs of the city or any department or
division thereof. Investigate all complaints in relation to matters concerning
the administration of the government of the city, and see that all franchises,
permits and privileges granted by the city are faithfully observed; and
         (m)   Perform such other duties as may be required by the Council, not
inconsistent with state law or city ordinances.
   (F)   Council not to interfere with appointments or removals. With regard to
officers and employees appointed by the Manager, neither the Council nor any of
its members shall direct or request the appointment of any person to, or his or
her removal or suspension from such office by the Manager or any of his or her
subordinates or in any manner take part in the appointment or removal of such
officers and employees in the administrative services of the city. Except for
the purpose of inquiry, the Council and its members shall deal with the
administrative services solely through the Manager.
(1976 Code, § 3-2-1) (Ord. 20-79, passed 11-15-1979; Ord. 554-09, passed 11-4-
2009)
§ 33.21 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   Appointment. The City Clerk and ex officio treasurer shall be
appointed by the Council and serve at the pleasure of the Council subject to
removal as provided by state statutes or otherwise provided for by an
employment agreement.
   (B)   Bond. Before entering upon his or her duties of office, the City Clerk
shall execute a bond in such amount as is provided by statute and the Council,
conditioned upon faithful performance of his or her duties.
   (C)   Records. The Clerk shall keep a true and correct record of all
business transacted by the Council and any other records that either pertain to
the business of the city or that the Council directs. The Clerk shall label and
file in a suitable location all resolutions, notices, deeds, surveys, leases,
orders and other documents of whatever nature. The City Clerk shall seal and
attest all deeds, ordinances and resolutions of the city and such other
documents as shall require this formality. The Clerk shall be custodian of the
city seal and shall affix its impression on documents whenever this is
required.
   (D)   Public inspection of records. The Clerk shall keep convenient for
public inspection all public records and public documents under his or her
control, as provided by state statute. The Clerk shall be the custodian of all
documents belonging to the city which are not assigned to the custody of some
other officer.
   (E)   Monthly reports. The Clerk shall prepare and collect from city
officers and employees such monthly reports prepared in such manner and to
include such information as may be directed by the Council.
   (F)   Minutes. The Clerk shall prepare or cause to be prepared all minutes
of Council proceedings and insure their correctness and accuracy.
   (G)   Ordinances, resolutions, budgets and notices. The Clerk shall process,
record, file, publish and, if required by state statute, post all ordinances,
resolutions, budgets and notices that may be passed by the Council or are
required by statute or ordinance.
   (H)   Election official. The Clerk shall be the city election official and
perform those duties required by statute.
   (I)   Licenses. Upon approval of the license application by the City Manager
or his or her designated representative, the Clerk shall issue or cause to be
issued all licenses that may be prescribed by state statute or this code.
   (J)   Administrative duties. The Clerk shall perform those administrative
responsibilities and duties that are conferred upon him or her by the Council
in addition to those specified in this code.
(1976 Code, § 3-2-2) (Ord. 151, passed 12-12-1985; Ord. 738-25, passed 3-26-
2025)
§ 33.22 CITY MARSHAL.
   The Marshal shall be collector of all taxes of the city; provided, that the
collection of such taxes may be administered by the Clerk. He or she shall
perform such duties as may be required of him or her by law and as the Council
may deem necessary.
(1976 Code, § 3-2-3)
§ 33.23 CITY ENGINEER.
   The Engineer shall have charge of the city streets, sewers and waterworks
and shall perform such duties as may be required of him or her by law and such
other duties as the Council may deem necessary.
(1976 Code, § 3-2-4)
§ 33.24 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Attorney shall act as the legal counselor and advisor of the
Council and other city officials, and as such shall give his or her opinion in
writing when requested.
   (B)   He or she shall draft all deeds, contracts, conveyances, ordinances,
resolutions and other legal instruments when required by the Council. He or she
shall approve as to form, in writing, all drafts of contracts and all official
or other bonds before final approval or acceptance thereof by the Council.
   (C)   He or she shall return, within ten days, all ordinances and
resolutions submitted to him or her for consideration by the Council, with his
or her approval or disapproval as to form noted thereon, together with his or
her reasons therefor.
   (D)   He or she shall prosecute and defend all suits, actions or causes
where the city is a party, and shall report to the Council, when required, the
condition of any suit or action to which the city is a party.
(1976 Code, § 3-2-5)
§ 33.25 CITY MAGISTRATE.
   The City Magistrate shall be the presiding officer of the Magistrate’s Court
and shall be selected by the Council and serve for a term of two years. The
City Magistrate may be removed by the Council from office at any time for cause
after a due process hearing held by the Council. The City Magistrate shall
perform those functions necessary to the maintenance of a Magistrate’s Court as
provided by state statute.
(1976 Code, § 3-2-6) (Ord. 142, passed 7-9-1985)
PERSONNEL SYSTEM
§ 33.40 CREATION AND SCOPE.
   There is hereby adopted a merit system for the employees of the city, the
provisions of which shall apply to all employees of the city except elected
officials, officers of the city appointed by the Council, persons engaged under
contract to supply expert, professional or technical services, temporary
employees, volunteer firefighters and volunteer personnel who receive no
regular compensation from the city.
(1976 Code, § 3-3-1)
§ 33.41 CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT.
   The appointment, promotion and tenure of every employee shall be conditioned
solely on merit and fitness and satisfactory performance of the duties and
responsibilities assigned. No employee or applicant for employment shall be
discriminated against on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, age or
political affiliation.
(1976 Code, § 3-3-2)
§ 33.42 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Council may adopt by resolution rules and regulations to give effect to
this subchapter, which may be modified or changed from time to time, but such
rules and regulations shall follow the generally accepted principles of good
personnel administration.
(1976 Code, § 3-3-3)
§ 33.43 POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS.
   No officer, official or employee of the city shall use any influence or
pressure upon any employee to obtain any assessment or contribution of money or
time, either direct or indirect, for any political campaign or personal gain.
(1976 Code, § 3-3-4)
CHAPTER 34: MAGISTRATE
Section
   
34.01   Magistrate Court established; jurisdiction
   
34.02   Presiding officer
   
34.03   Proceedings of court
   
34.04   Administrative fees
   
34.05   Establishment of Magistrate Court Improvement Fund and allocation of
court improvement fee
§ 34.01 MAGISTRATE COURT ESTABLISHED; JURISDICTION.
   (A)   There is hereby established the City Magistrate’s Court. The City
Magistrate Court shall be the judicial branch of the city. The court shall have
jurisdiction over civil traffic, criminal traffic and criminal misdemeanor
offenses, as well as violations of the city code and other adopted ordinances.
In addition, the Magistrate Court shall have authority to issue arrest/search
warrants, orders of protection and injunctions against harassment.
   (B)   The Page Magistrate Court shall be governed by the authority and
administrative supervision of the State Supreme Court.
(1976 Code, § 5-1) (Ord. 619-14, passed 9-24-2014)
§ 34.02 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   City Magistrate. Council shall appoint a presiding Magistrate Judge
who shall serve as an officer of the city per §
33.01. The Magistrate Judge shall serve a two-year term.
   (B)   Assistant City Magistrate. Council may appoint Assistant Magistrate
Judges to conduct matters of the Magistrate Court. Assistant Magistrates shall
serve a two-year term. The presiding Magistrate Judge will determine how to
utilize the services of Assistant Magistrate Judges.
   (C)   Powers and duties of City Magistrate. The City Magistrate shall:
      (1)   Conduct matters of the court consistent with authority granted by
the State Supreme Court, the State Constitution, state statutes, rulings of the
State Supreme Court and courts of appeals, rules and regulations promulgated by
state authorities, the city code and city ordinances;
      (2)   Keep a docket memorializing each action and the proceedings of the
court therein;
      (3)   Receive all bonds, bails, fines, restitution, surcharges, fees and
other monies as provided by law;
      (4)   Remit all fees, fines, restitution, surcharges and other monies
collected by the court to the City Finance Department for distribution to state
and county agencies; and
      (5)   Submit a monthly financial report to the Council summarizing the
court’s collections for that month.
(1976 Code, § 5-2) (Ord. 619-14, passed 9-24-2014)
§ 34.03 PROCEEDINGS OF COURT.
   (A)   Proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the State
Constitution, state statutes, rules of the State Supreme Court and other
applicable authorities. Proceedings shall also be conducted in accordance with
the appropriate rules of court, unless otherwise prescribed.
   (B)   Proceedings shall be commenced by complaint or citation in the name of
the state, setting forth the specific offense charged, including time, place,
person and succinct statement of the incident facts.
   (C)   Proceedings after commencement may include initial appearance,
arraignment, pretrial conference, pretrial hearings and other hearings
authorized by law. Additional proceedings include issuance of arrest and search
warrants, orders to show cause, injunctions against harassment and orders of
protection.
(1976 Code, § 5-3) (Ord. 619-14, passed 9-24-2014)
§ 34.04 ADMINISTRATIVE FEES.
   (A)   Disbursement of fines and administrative fees. The court shall remit
all fees, fines, restitution, surcharges and other monies collected by the
court to the City Finance Department for distribution to state and county
agencies.
   (B)   Administrative fees.
      (1)   Generally. The following fees shall be collected by the court:
         (a)   Warrant fee;
         (b)   Suspension fee;
         (c)   Show cause fee;
         (d)   Time payment fee or extension fee;
         (e)   Default fee;
         (f)   Drug court fee;
         (g)   Court improvement fee; and
         (h)   Costs of prosecution.
      (2)   Warrant fee. The court shall collect a warrant fee for each warrant
issued by the court. Any person who has a warrant issued by the court for
failure to comply shall be required to pay this fee to offset the cost of
issuing and servicing the warrant.
      (3)   Suspension fee. The court shall collect a suspension fee for each
suspension of a driver’s license. Any person who has had a suspension issued by
the court for failure to pay a civil traffic fine or for any other reason shall
be required to pay this fee to offset the cost of issuing and servicing the
suspension.
      (4)   Show cause fee. The court shall collect a fee on each order to show
cause, unless the defendant can show compliance with the issued court order.
      (5)   Time payment fee. In addition to any other assessment authorized by
law, the Court shall collect a time payment fee or time payment extension fee
from any person who pays a court ordered penalty, fine or sanction on a time
payment basis, including parking penalties, restitution and juvenile monetary
assessments.
      (6)   Default fee. The court shall collect a default fee for each default
judgment entered on a civil traffic violation when the person cited failed to
respond to the citation or summons.
      (7)   Drug court fee. The court shall collect a fee from each participant
in the drug court program.
      (8)   Court improvement fee. The court shall collect a fee on all fines,
sanctions, penalties and assessments imposed by the court. The improvement fee
shall also apply to fees collected for court authorized diversion programs as
permitted in A.R.S. § 9-500.22 and includes authorized defensive driving
courses.
      (9)   Costs of prosecution. The court may collect costs of prosecution as
ordered by the court in connection with motions to suspend prosecution.
   (C)   Enforcement.
      (1)   If a person has been found to be indigent, the Court may reduce the
amount of any fee based upon the individual’s ability to pay.
      (2)   The court may contract with a collections agency to collect
outstanding fines and administrative fees.
      (3)   In addition to any other remedy available at law, the City Attorney
is authorized to institute legal proceedings to recover fees incurred pursuant
to this chapter.
   (D)   Authority to set fee amounts.
      (1)   The amount of each fee to be charged pursuant to this chapter shall
be set by the Presiding Magistrate who shall in writing inform the City Council
of the established fees.
      (2)   If the City Council desires a change in the fee schedule submitted
by the Court, the Council shall request the Presiding Magistrate to submit a
revised fee schedule.
(1976 Code, § 5-4) (Ord. 619-14, passed 9-24-2014; Ord. 631-17, passed 2-8-
2017; Ord. 697-22, passed 9-14-2022; Ord. 699-22, passed 12-14-2022)
§ 34.05 ESTABLISHMENT OF MAGISTRATE COURT IMPROVEMENT FUND AND ALLOCATION OF
COURT IMPROVEMENT FEE.
   Magistrate Court Improvement Fund. There is hereby established a Magistrate
Court Improvement Fund, which shall be used exclusively to enhance the
technological, operational, and security capabilities of the Magistrate Court.
The Magistrate Court shall collect the court improvement fees as defined in
this section and transmit the fees to the City Treasurer. The City Treasurer
shall invest the monies in the fund in the same manner as other city funds.
Interest earned on fund monies shall be deposited into the fund.
(Ord. 699-22, passed 12-14-2022)
CHAPTER 35: POLICE, FIRE, AMBULANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Ambulance service
Police Department
   
35.15   Created; composition
   
35.16   Appointment of officers
   
35.17   Compensation of officers
   
35.18   Departmental rules and regulations
   
35.19   Duties of Police Department
   
35.20   Answering calls outside the city
Fire Department
   
35.35   Created; composition
   
35.36   Departmental rules and regulations
   
35.37   Appointment, powers and duties of Chief
   
35.38   Providing fire protection outside the city
   
35.39   Acknowledgment of right-of-way
   
35.40   Fire alarms
   
35.41   Orders of Fire Chief
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 AMBULANCE SERVICE.
   The Council may establish a municipal ambulance service which shall be
operated accordance with such rates, rules and regulations as may be adopted by
resolution of the Council.
(1976 Code, § 4-4)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.15 CREATED; COMPOSITION.
   There is hereby created a Police Department for the city, which shall
consist of a Chief of Police who may also serve as City Marshal, and as many
police officer as may from time to time be deemed necessary by the Council for
the safety and good order of the city.
(1976 Code, § 4-1-1)
§ 35.16 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   The Chief of Police shall be appointed by the Manager.
(1976 Code, § 4-1-2)
§ 35.17 COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS.
   The Chief of Police shall not receive any perquisites, commissions or
compensations for his or her services as Chief of Police, except as the Council
may prescribe.
(1976 Code, § 4-1-3)
§ 35.18 DEPARTMENTAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Police Department shall be operated and managed in accordance with such
departmental rules and regulations as may from time to time be adopted by the
Council.
(1976 Code, § 4-1-4)
§ 35.19 DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It is the duty of the Police Department, under the direction of the Chief of
Police, to:
   (A)   Enforce this code and the statutes of the state within jurisdictional
limits as conferred by law and to arrest and charge the violators thereof;
   (B)   Take charge of the city jail and all prisoners confined therein, and
all those who are sentenced to labor on the streets or public works of the
city, and to see that orders and sentences with reference to such are fully
executed and complied with;
   (C)   Deliver any persons who may be confined in the jail upon conviction of
a crime committed under the jurisdiction of the Magistrate’s Court to any
authorized officer of the city who shall at any time demand such prisoners. Any
such authorized person so demanding and receiving such prisoners shall work
such prisoners on the streets or alleys of the city or on any and all
authorized work as may be determined by the Council;
   (D)   Render such account of the Police Department, its duties and receipts
as may be required by the Manager, and keep records of the office open to
inspection by the Manager at any time;
   (E)   Direct traffic and ensure the orderly flow thereof and investigate and
make reports of traffic accidents;
   (F)   Inspect and ascertain the condition of traffic control devices of
every description which have been erected within the city on the authority of
the Council and to notify the Council of any defects found therein;
   (G)   Perform such additional duties as may be required by the Manager; and
   (H)   Collect the following fees: work furlough fees for those prisoners
incarcerated on a part-time basis and are otherwise employed in the community
as provided by A.R.S. §§ 31-332 et seq. Boarding fees to be assessed upon
jurisdictions other than the city for the keeping of prisoners in the city
detention facility and any person serving any term of confinement in the city
detention facility that was not sentenced by the City Magistrate Court. Any
additional boarding fees assessed to the city by other jurisdictions when said
prisoner serves time in said foreign jurisdiction.
(1976 Code, § 4-1-5) (Ord. 328-96, passed - -)
§ 35.20 ANSWERING CALLS OUTSIDE THE CITY.
   The members of the Police Department of the city are duly authorized to
answer calls for aid and assistance beyond the corporate limits of the city
pursuant to mutual aid agreements and state statutes.
(1976 Code, § 4-1-6)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.35 CREATED; COMPOSITION.
   There is hereby created a Fire Department for the city which shall consist
of a Chief and as many firefighters as may be deemed necessary from time to
time by the Council.
(1976 Code, § 4-2-1)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see A.R.S. § 9-240(B)(7)
§ 35.36 DEPARTMENTAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Fire Department shall be operated and managed in accordance with such
departmental rules and regulations as may from time to time be adopted by the
Council.
(1976 Code, § 4-2-2)
§ 35.37 APPOINTMENT, POWERS AND DUTIES OF CHIEF.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall be appointed by the Manager; it shall
be the duty of the Chief to:
   (A)   Be accountable to the Manager for the personnel, moral and general
efficiency of the Fire Department;
   (B)   Direct the operations of the Fire Department subject to the rules and
regulations thereof;
   (C)   Be present at all fires, if possible, and plan and direct the
extinguishment thereof. During the progress of a fire, the authority of the
Fire Chief shall be absolute in all matters directly concerning the
extinguishment of the fire and the disposition of property endangered by it;
   (D)   Conduct suitable drills or instruction in the operation and handling
of equipment, first aid and rescue work, salvage, a study of buildings in the
city, water supplies and all other matters generally considered essential to
good firemanship and safety of life and property from fire;
   (E)   Assist the proper authorities in suppressing the crime of arson by
investigating or causing to be investigated the cause, origin and circumstances
of all fires;
   (F)   Inspect buildings and premises and serve written notice upon the owner
or occupant to abate, within a specified time, any and all fire hazards that
may be found. For the purpose of conducting such inspection, the Chief is
hereby empowered to enter any and all buildings and premises within the city at
any reasonable hour. Any person served with such written notice shall comply
and notify the Chief of his or her compliance within a reasonable time;
   (G)   Keep complete records of all fires, inspections, apparatus and
equipment, personnel and other information about the work of the department
open to the Manager and Council inspection and furnish to the Manager and
Council such information upon request;
   (H)   Make a complete annual report, in writing, to the Manager and Council
at such time as may be specified by the Manager, and such report shall include
the information specified in division (G) above, together with comparative data
for previous years and recommendations for improving the effectiveness of the
Department;
   (I)   Enforce or cause to be enforced all ordinances, laws and regulations
of the city and state, insofar as they pertain to fire and safety; and
   (J)   Demote, dismiss or expel any officer or member of the Department for
neglect or refusal to perform departmental duties, subject to the right of any
members so demoted, dismissed or expelled to appeal to the Council.
(1976 Code, § 4-2-3)
§ 35.38 PROVIDING FIRE PROTECTION OUTSIDE THE CITY.
   The Council may enter into agreements or contracts to furnish fire
protection outside the city or enter into mutual aid agreements, and the Fire
Department is authorized to render firefighting service pursuant to the terms
of such agreements or contracts.
(1976 Code, § 4-2-7)
§ 35.39 ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Each member of the Department who drives a private motor vehicle shall be
issued suitable insignia which may be attached to such motor vehicle. All motor
equipment of the Department shall have right- of-way over all other traffic
when responding to an alarm. No unauthorized vehicle shall follow within 600
feet of any apparatus belonging to the Department, nor park any vehicle or
otherwise cause any obstruction to be placed within ten feet of the entrance to
any fire station or other place where fire apparatus is stored or within 15
feet of any fire hydrant. No person shall drive any vehicle over fire hose
except upon specific orders from the Chief or other officer in charge where the
hose is used.
(1976 Code, § 4-2-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.40 FIRE ALARMS.
   Suitable arrangements or equipment shall be provided for citizens to turn in
an alarm and for notifying all members of the Department so that they may
promptly respond. It is unlawful for any person knowingly to turn in or cause
to be turned in a false alarm.
(1976 Code, § 4-2-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.41 ORDERS OF FIRE CHIEF.
   It is unlawful for any firefighter or citizen to refuse to obey an order
issued by the Fire Chief pursuant to his or her authority.
(1976 Code, § 4-2-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   TRASH, RUBBISH OR GARBAGE AND RECYCLABLE, AND/OR HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
COLLECTION
CHAPTER 50: TRASH, RUBBISH OR GARBAGE, AND RECYCLABLE
 AND/OR HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COLLECTION
Section
   
50.01   Exclusive right
   
50.02   Contract with private company; fixing of service and rates
   
50.03   Use of containers
   
50.04   Residential trash, rubbish or garbage, and recyclable and/or hazardous
materials collection
   
50.05   Manufactured housing/RV park trash, rubbish or garbage, and recyclable
and/or hazardous materials collection
   
50.06   Commercial, public/semi-public, business park trash, rubbish or
garbage, and recyclable and/or hazardous materials collection
§ 50.01 EXCLUSIVE RIGHT.
   (A)   The city has the exclusive right to engage in or authorize third
parties to conduct the business of collection and disposing of all trash,
rubbish or garbage, including recyclable and/or hazardous materials, for
compensation within the city limits of the city, except as provided by in state
law. The City Council shall prescribe rules and regulations, which may include
licensing requirements, governing the collection, disposal and hauling of
refuse, recyclable materials and other waste management services by qualified
and experienced private companies.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to haul or cause to be hauled on
or along any public street or right-of-way in the city any trash, rubbish or
garbage, including recyclable and/or hazardous material, for compensation in
violation of this code, applicable state or federal law, or rules established
by the city.
   (C)   Except that nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to prohibit
construction contractors, subcontractors or property owners from proper
construction site cleanup and disposal at a proper landfill or “construction
debris” as currently defined by A.R.S. § 49-701.
(1976 Code, § 9-2-1) (Ord. 615-14, passed 7-9-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.02 CONTRACT WITH PRIVATE COMPANY; FIXING OF SERVICE AND RATES.
   (A)   If the City Council elects to contract with a private company to
provide municipal trash, rubbish or garbage, including recyclable and/or
hazardous materials collection services to the residents of the city, then the
method and frequency of such collection, and the rates for such collection and
disposal shall be fixed by the City Council in a written contract with the
private company providing the service. The terms of any such contract or
amendments thereto, as may from time to time be adopted and approved by the
City Council, are expressly incorporated by reference into this chapter and
made a part hereof as though fully set forth herein.
   (B)   All contracts and amendments thereto which may be entered into by the
City Council to provide municipal trash, rubbish or garbage, including
recyclable and/or hazardous materials disposal and collection services to the
city and its residents are established and declared to be a public record, and
each contract which may be approved by the City Council shall be maintained in
the office of the City Clerk for public inspection and review during normal
business hours of that office.
   (C)   In the event the services, schedules or procedures for garbage
collection as provided for in the city agreement for garbage collection is
amended or altered, the City Manager shall be responsible for taking reasonable
steps to notify the community of such changes prior to their implementation.
(1976 Code, § 9-2-2) (Ord. 593-12, passed 8-8-2012; Ord. 628-16, passed 6-22-
2016)
§ 50.03 USE OF CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or cause to be deposited any
refuse in any container that he or she does not own or is not entitled to use
as a tenant.
(1976 Code, § 9-2-3) (Ord. 593-12, passed 8-8-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.04 RESIDENTIAL TRASH, RUBBISH OR GARBAGE, AND RECYCLABLE AND/OR HAZARDOUS
MATERIALS COLLECTION.
   (A)   Storage of containers. Except for multi-family dwellings, all trash,
rubbish or garbage, including recyclable and/or hazardous materials collection
containers shall be stored no closer to the street than the front building line
of the principal dwelling.
   (B)   Container must close. Except for multi-family dwellings, all trash,
rubbish or garbage, including recyclable and/or hazardous materials collection
containers must remain closed, with a tight fitting lid at all times. There
shall be no contents of any trash, rubbish or garbage, including recyclable
and/or hazardous materials collection container visible due to an open or
unsecured lid. No trash rubbish or garbage, including recyclable and/or
hazardous materials shall be placed or stored outside of an approved container.
   (C)   Container location for curb-side pickup. Except for multi-family
dwellings, trash, rubbish or garbage, including recyclable and/or hazardous
materials collection containers waiting to be picked up by curb-side service
shall be placed immediately adjacent to the street side of the curb.
   (D)   Container curb-side pickup location timeframe. Except for multi-family
dwellings, trash, rubbish or garbage, including recyclable and/or hazardous
materials collection containers shall be set out after 6:00 p.m. on the day
preceding regular collection and shall be removed from the curb by 6:00 p.m. on
the day of collection. All other times all trash, rubbish or garbage, including
recyclable and/or hazardous materials collection containers must be stored as
required in division (A) above.
   (E)   Trash, rubbish or garbage, and recyclable and/or hazardous materials
collection areas for multi-family dwellings.
      (1)   Trash, rubbish or garbage, including recyclable and/or hazardous
materials collection areas which generate noise and/or odors shall not be
located in front of a principal residential building.
      (2)   Garbage and recycling containers must be fully enclosed via a solid
six-foot wall or fence and view obstructing gate and located on a concrete
surface. The enclosure shall be softened with landscaping on any side visible
from a public or private street. The enclosure shall be located inside parking
courts or at the end of parking bays. Locations shall be conveniently
accessible for collection and maintenance and shall not block access drives
during collection operations.
(Ord. 628-16, passed 6-22-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.05 MANUFACTURED HOUSING/RV PARK TRASH, RUBBISH OR GARBAGE, AND RECYCLABLE
AND/OR HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COLLECTION.
   All trash, rubbish or garbage, including recyclable and/or hazardous
materials in common storage and collection areas shall be completely enclosed
via a solid six-foot wall or fence and view obstructing gate and located on a
concrete surface. Refuse collection areas shall be readily accessible to
collection vehicles, without substantially encumbering adjacent parking and
vehicular access. If the refuse collection area can be seen from the exterior
of the park, the enclosure shall be softened with landscaping on its most
visible sides.
(Ord. 628-16, passed 6-22-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.06 COMMERCIAL, PUBLIC/SEMI-PUBLIC, BUSINESS PARK TRASH, RUBBISH OR
GARBAGE, AND RECYCLABLE AND/OR HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COLLECTION.
   All trash, rubbish or garbage, including recyclable and/or hazardous
materials collection storage and collection areas shall be completely enclosed
via a solid six-foot wall or fence and view obstructing gate and located on a
concrete surface. Refuse collection areas shall be readily accessible to
collection vehicles, without substantially encumbering adjacent parking and
vehicular access. If the refuse collection area can be seen from the front of
the property, the enclosure shall be softened with landscaping on its most
visible sides.
(Ord. 628-16, passed 6-22-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   ADMINISTRATION
      
71.   TRAFFIC CONTROL
      
72.   PARKING
      
73.   DYNAMIC BRAKING DEVICE
CHAPTER 70: ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
70.01   Duty of Police Chief
   
70.02   Records of traffic violations
   
70.03   Police Chief to investigate accidents
   
70.04   Traffic accident studies
   
70.05   Traffic accident reports
§ 70.01 DUTY OF POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Police Chief to provide for the
enforcement of the street traffic regulations of the city and all of the state
vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in the city, to make arrests for
traffic violations, to investigate accidents and to assist in developing ways
and means to improve traffic conditions and to carry out all duties especially
imposed upon the Police Chief by this chapter.
   (B)   Any peace officer of the city may be authorized by the Police Chief to
perform any of the duties of the Police Chief included in this chapter.
(1976 Code, § 12-1-1)
§ 70.02 RECORDS OF TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Police Chief shall keep a record of all violations of the traffic
laws of the city or of the state vehicle laws of which any person has been
charged, together with a record of the final disposition of all such alleged
offenses. Such record shall accumulate during at least a five-year period and
from that time on the record shall be maintained complete for at least the most
recent five-year period.
   (B)   All forms for records of violations and notices shall be serially
numbered. For each month and year a written record shall be kept available to
the public showing the disposal of all such forms.
   (C)   All records and reports shall be public records.
(1976 Code, § 12-1-2)
§ 70.03 POLICE CHIEF TO INVESTIGATE ACCIDENTS.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Chief to investigate traffic accidents
and to arrest and assist in the prosecution of those persons charged with
violations of law causing or contributing to such accidents.
(1976 Code, § 12-1-3)
§ 70.04 TRAFFIC ACCIDENT STUDIES.
   Whenever the accidents at any particular location become numerous, the
Police Chief shall conduct studies of such accidents and determine remedial
measures.
(1976 Code, § 12-1-4)
§ 70.05 TRAFFIC ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   (A)   The Police Chief shall maintain a suitable system of filing traffic
accident reports. Accident reports or cards referring to them shall be filed
alphabetically by location.
   (B)   The Police Chief shall receive and properly file all accident reports
made to him or her under state law or under any law of the city, but all such
accident reports made by drivers shall be for the confidential use of the city,
and no such report shall be admissible in any civil or criminal proceeding
other than upon request of any person making such report or upon request of the
court having jurisdiction, to prove a compliance with the laws requiring the
making of any such report.
(1976 Code, § 12-1-5)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC CONTROL
Section
   
71.01   Directing traffic
   
71.02   Obedience to traffic regulations
   
71.03   Use of coasters, roller skates and similar devices restricted
   
71.04   Traffic-control devices
   
71.05   Authority to designate crosswalks, establish safety zones and mark
traffic lanes
   
71.06   Authority to place and obedience to turning markers
   
71.07   Authority to place and obedience to restricted turn signs
   
71.08   Limitations on turning around
   
71.09   One-way streets and alleys
   
71.10   Regulation of traffic at intersections
   
71.11   Drivers to obey signs
   
71.12   Processions
   
71.13   Off-road vehicles
   
71.14   Commercial vehicle traffic restrictions
   
71.15   Horseshoe Bend traffic regulations
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 DIRECTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to direct all traffic, either
in person, by the officers of the Police Department or by means of visible or
audible signal.
   (B)   In the event of a fire, or other emergency, or to expedite traffic, or
safeguard pedestrians, officers of the Police or Fire Department may direct
traffic, as conditions may require, notwithstanding the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   The Chief of Police is hereby empowered to make and enforce
regulations necessary to make effective the provisions of this chapter and to
make and enforce temporary regulations to cover emergencies. All such rules and
regulations promulgated by the Chief of Police shall be filed at the next
meeting of the Council following such promulgation.
(1976 Code, § 12-2-1)
§ 71.02 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform any
act required by this chapter. It is unlawful for any person to wilfully fail or
refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of the Police Chief or of
any Fire Department official.
(1976 Code, § 12-2-2) (Ord. 592-12, passed 7-25-2012) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 USE OF COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES AND SIMILAR DEVICES RESTRICTED.
   It is unlawful for any person upon roller skates or riding any coaster, toy
vehicle or similar device to go upon any roadway except while crossing a street
on a crosswalk and, when crossing, such person shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians.
(1976 Code, § 12-2-3) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The Police Chief, with the approval of the Council, shall place and
maintain traffic-control devices, signs and signals when and as required under
the traffic regulations of the city to make effective the provisions of said
regulations, and may place and maintain such additional traffic-control devices
as he or she may deem necessary to regulate traffic under the traffic laws of
the city or under state law or to guide or warn traffic.
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the traffic
regulations of the city, unless otherwise directed by the Police Chief, subject
to the exceptions granted in this chapter or by state law.
(1976 Code, § 12-2-4)
§ 71.05 AUTHORITY TO DESIGNATE CROSSWALKS, ESTABLISH SAFETY ZONES AND MARK
TRAFFIC LANES.
   The Police Chief is hereby authorized, on approval by the Council:
   (A)   To designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon
the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where in his or her
opinion there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and at
such other places as he or she may deem necessary;
   (B)   To establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such
places as he or she may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians; and
   (C)   To mark lanes for traffic on street pavements at such places as he or
she may deem advisable, consistent with the traffic laws of the city.
(1976 Code, § 12-2-5)
§ 71.06 AUTHORITY TO PLACE AND OBEDIENCE TO TURNING MARKERS.
   (A)   The Police Chief is authorized to place markers, buttons or signs
within or adjacent to intersections indicating the course to be traveled by
vehicles turning at such intersections, and such course to be traveled as so
indicated may conform to or be other than as prescribed by law.
   (B)   When authorized markers, buttons or other indications are placed
within an intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning
threat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of such
indications.
(1976 Code, § 12-2-6) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 AUTHORITY TO PLACE AND OBEDIENCE TO RESTRICTED TURN SIGNS.
   (A)   The Police Chief, on approval by the Council, is hereby authorized to
determine those intersections at which drivers of vehicles shall not make a
right, left or U-turn and shall place proper signs at such intersections. The
making of such turns may be prohibited between certain hours of any day and
permitted at other hours, in which event the same shall be plainly indicated on
the signs or such signs may be removed when such turns are permitted.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of
any such sign.
(1976 Code, § 12-2-7) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08 LIMITATIONS ON TURNING AROUND.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction upon any street in a business district and shall not
upon any other street so turn a vehicle unless such movement can be made in
safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(1976 Code, § 12-2-8) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.09 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   The Council shall, by resolution, designate any streets or alleys
which are to be limited to one-way traffic.
   (B)   When any resolution of the Council designates any one-way street or
alley, the Police Chief shall place and maintain signs giving notice thereof,
and no such regulation shall be effective unless such signs are in place. Signs
indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every
intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(1976 Code, § 12-2-9) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.10 REGULATION OF TRAFFIC AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The Council shall, by resolution, designate through streets,
intersections where stops are required, and intersections where vehicles shall
yield the right-of-way.
   (B)   When any resolution of the Council shall designate any through street
or intersection where vehicles are to stop or yield the right-of-way, the
Police Chief shall erect and maintain the appropriate signs at every location
where a vehicle must stop or yield the right-of-way.
(1976 Code, § 12-2-10) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.11 DRIVERS TO OBEY SIGNS.
   Whenever traffic signs are erected as provided in this chapter, every driver
of a vehicle shall obey such signs unless directed to proceed by the Police
Chief or a traffic-control signal. No driver shall drive upon or through any
private property such as an oil station, vacant lot or similar property to
avoid obedience to any regulation included in this chapter.
(1976 Code, § 12-2-11) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.12 PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   No procession or parade, except funeral processions, shall be held
without first securing a permit from the Police Chief, and all such requests
for permits shall state the time, place of formation, proposed line of march,
destination and such other information as the Police Chief may request. Fees
for parade permits shall be as established from time to time by the Council.
   (B)   A funeral procession composed of a procession of vehicles shall be
identified by such methods as may be determined and designated by the Police
Chief.
   (C)   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a
funeral or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such
vehicles are conspicuously designated. This provision shall not apply at
intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals or the
Police Chief.
   (D)   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to
the right-hand edge of the roadway as practical and shall follow the vehicle
ahead as close as is practical and safe.
(1976 Code, § 12-2-12) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.13 OFF-ROAD VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive, ride or use a
motorcycle, off-highway motor vehicle, motor vehicle, mini-bike, trail bike,
dune buggy, motor scooter, jeep or other form of transportation propelled by an
internal combustion engine, upon any public or private property which is not an
improved public street or highway, dedicated right-of-way or an improved
private street constructed in accordance with the city standards and approved
by the city, except that this section shall not apply in any of the following
instances:
      (1)   Where such vehicle is being driven, ridden or used upon property by
the owner, resident or tenant of such property, or by an authorized visitor
when such visitor is accompanied by or has the written authorization in his or
her possession from the owner, resident or tenant of such property;
      (2)   Where such use is permitted pursuant to a use permit or otherwise
in accordance with the zoning regulations of the city;
      (3)   Where such vehicle is being driven, ridden or used upon any private
property which is not an improved public street or highway, dedicated right-of-
way or an improved private street constructed in accordance with the city
standards and approved by the city, except that such vehicle shall not be
driven, ridden or used within 150 feet of a residence, church, school in
session; or
      (4)   Where such use occurs on the following public property known as:
Big 5 (that area south of Highway 98, between Highway 89 and the western
boundary of the Industrial Park south to the Navajo Nation and city
boundaries); Antelope Valley/Cow Ponds (that area east of the airport boundary
fence to the east Navajo Nation and city boundaries and north of Coppermine
Road and Highway 98); Dead Dog (that area west of the WAPA Power Substation on
the west side of the Colorado River within the Glen Canyon National Recreation
area); and Seismograph Road (that area south of Highway 89 to the south of
Greenehaven within Bureau of Land Management and Glen Canyon National
Recreation areas), and when such vehicle is being driven, ridden or used in
accordance with the following rules and regulations.
         (a)   All off-highway vehicles (OHVS) must display a current OHV
registration sticker and comply with all OHV registration requirements from the
state of registration.
         (b)   Riders and drivers operate their OHVS or other street legal
vehicles at their own risk.
         (c)   Vehicles shall not be driven, ridden or used within 150 feet of
a residence, church or school in session.
         (d)   All OHVS must have a muffler with a U.S. Department of
Agriculture (USDA) approved spark arrestor device.
         (e)   All OHVS must have a lighted headlights and taillights, if the
OHV is operated between one half-hour after sunset and one-half hour before
sunrise.
         (f)   Anyone under 18 that is driving or riding on an OHV must wear a
properly fitted and fastened U.S. Department of Transportation (U.S. DOT)
approved helmet.
         (g)   No child under the age of eight may operate an OHV.
         (h)   Travel is limited to roads and marked trails or routes. The
making of new trails or routes is prohibited.
         (i)   All OHVS and street legal vehicles must yield the right-of-way
to hikers, bicyclists and equestrians.
         (j)   Reckless operation is prohibited.
         (k)   It is recommended that all OHVS operate with an orange or red
safety flag, visible at least eight feet from the ground.
         (l)   Do not harass wildlife.
         (m)   All users must comply with the rules and regulations for other
agencies when entering their lands or jurisdictions.
   (B)   Every vehicle, as defined in division (A) above, being driven, ridden
or used upon public or private property shall be equipped with either a muffler
or silencer in good working order and in constant operation to prevent
excessive or unusual noise, and no person shall use a muffler or silencer cut-
out, by-pass or similar device.
   (C)   Whenever any person is stopped by a peace officer for violation of
division (A)(1) above, he or she shall, upon the request of such officer,
display such written permission.
(1976 Code, § 12-2-13) (Ord. 14, passed 5-16-1977; Ord. 114, passed 7-24-1984;
Ord. 620-14, passed 11-19-2014) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.14 COMMERCIAL VEHICLE TRAFFIC RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BASE OF OPERATIONS. The primary physical location at which the
scheduling, operations, loading and unloading, repair and maintenance and
storage of a commercial vehicle occurs. The residence of a commercial vehicle
driver is not considered the vehicle’s BASE OF OPERATIONS, unless the above
elements also occur at the residence, e.g., contract truck owner/operator.
      COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Every vehicle designed, maintained or used for the
transportation of persons or property, other than the personal effects of the
driver, for hire or compensation.
      TRUCK or VEHICLE. The vehicles with motive power or the combination of a
vehicle and towed trailer meeting any one or more of the following conditions:
         (a)   Having three or more axles;
         (b)   Exceeding 10,000 pounds gross vehicle weight; and/or
         (c)   Exceeding 30 feet in overall length including truck and load.
      TRUCK ROUTE. The streets designated on a list and map on file in the City
Clerk’s office, and posted with appropriate signage by the city.
   (B)   Exemptions. The following exemptions shall apply to this section:
      (1)   School buses;
      (2)   Vehicles owned or operated by a utility for the purpose of
construction, installation or the repair of utility facilities;
      (3)   Authorized emergency vehicles;
      (4)   Vehicles used for refuse collection;
      (5)   Road machinery or construction vehicles while involved in
construction or repair activities; and
      (6)   Residential route package and express cargo vehicles not exceeding
two axles used for local route deliveries involving multiple stops along city
streets.
   (C)   Restrictions.
      (1)   No person shall operate any commercial vehicle as defined in
division (A) above at any time upon city streets, except those streets or parts
of streets designated as truck routes; except for the purpose of delivery or
pickup of cargo, or the delivery or pickup of passengers to a specific location
outside of a designated truck route.
      (2)   Vehicles may operate on restricted streets for the delivery and
pickup of cargo or passengers to a specific location and in such cases shall
use restricted streets for the shortest distance possible. Vehicles having a
base of operation on a restricted street may enter or leave such location at
any time by the shortest distance to a designated truck route.
(1976 Code, § 12-2-14) (Ord. 266-91, passed 11-14-1991) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.15 HORSESHOE BEND TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   Parking, loading or unloading passengers in or along the entry road to
Horseshoe Bend, also known as Page Parkway, except in city designated areas is
prohibited. Loading or unloading passengers in or along U.S. Highway 89 within
1,500 feet of the intersection of Page Parkway and U.S. Highway 89 is also
prohibited.
(Ord. 656-19, passed 5-8-2019)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to a civil sanction. A civil sanction imposed pursuant to this section
shall not exceed $300.
(1976 Code, § 12-2-2)
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
71.13 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and each person shall be deemed
guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during
which any violation of any of the provisions of §
71.13 is committed, continued or permitted and upon conviction of any such
violation such person shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $300 or by
imprisonment for not more than 90 days or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(1976 Code, § 12-2-13)
(Ord. 592-12, passed 7-25-2012)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING
Section
   
72.01   Method of parking
   
72.02   Blocking traffic
   
72.03   Parking adjacent to schools
   
72.04   Authority to erect signs restricting parking
   
72.05   Parking vehicles on sidewalks
   
72.06   Abandoned or unattended vehicles
   
72.07   Physically disabled parking
   
72.08   Truck tractor and/or semi-trailer parking
   
72.09   Owner liability in reference to illegal parking
§ 72.01 METHOD OF PARKING.
   Except as otherwise provided by resolution of the Council, every vehicle
stopped or parked upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs shall be so
stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of such vehicle parallel to and
within 18 inches of the right-hand curb.
(1976 Code, § 12-3-1)
§ 72.02 BLOCKING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park any motor vehicle
or other vehicle, upon a street in the city in such manner or under such
conditions as to leave available less than 20 feet of the width of the roadway
for the free movement of vehicular traffic, except that a person may stop
temporarily, in the actual loading or unloading of passengers or, when
necessary, in the observance of traffic signs or signals of the Police Chief.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle, or other
vehicle, within an alley or entrance to a private driveway except for the
loading or unloading of materials, and not then unless such loading or
unloading can be accomplished without blocking the alley to the free movement
of vehicular traffic.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to park a boat and trailer, travel
trailer, motor home, tractor, semi-trailer or trailer upon any street in the
city for a period of more than 24 consecutive hours.
(1976 Code, § 12-3-2)  Penalty, see §
72.09
§ 72.03 PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS.
   When signs are erected indicating no parking on the side of the street
adjacent to any school property, no person shall park a vehicle in any such
designated place for one hour before school opens until one hour after school
closes on any school day.
(1976 Code, § 12-3-3)  Penalty, see §
72.09
§ 72.04 AUTHORITY TO ERECT SIGNS RESTRICTING PARKING.
   (A)   The Police Chief, upon approval by the Council, may erect signs
requiring parking at an angle to the curb, allowing parking on the left-hand
curb on one-way streets, notifying drivers that parking is prohibited and
restricting parking in any way that may be necessary.
   (B)   No parking restrictions shall become effective until such restricted
parking area is specifically designated by resolution of the Council and signs
have been erected as authorized by this section.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to stop or stand a vehicle in
disobedience to such parking restrictions.
(1976 Code, § 12-3-4)  Penalty, see §
72.09
§ 72.05 PARKING VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for any person to park any vehicle, whether in useable
condition or not, or for an owner to permit his or her vehicle to be parked
upon any sidewalk in the city.
(1976 Code, § 12-3-5)  Penalty, see §
72.09
§ 72.06 ABANDONED OR UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to abandon or leave unattended any
vehicle on public property, streets, boulevards, roadways or alleys.
   (B)   Evidence that a vehicle has not been moved for a period of 72 hours
shall be prima facie evidence that the vehicle has been abandoned or left
unattended.
   (C)   Any abandoned or unattended vehicle may be issued a parking citation
for each day of violation or towed to impound by the City Police Department.
   (D)   Any impounded vehicle not claimed by the owner may be sold by the city
as provided by state law.
(1976 Code, § 12-3-6) (Ord. 598-12, passed 12-19-2012)  Penalty, see §
72.09
§ 72.07 PHYSICALLY DISABLED PARKING.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, a person shall not stop,
stand or park a motor vehicle within any specially designated and marked
parking space provided pursuant to A.R.S. Title 28, Chapter 3, Article 14,
unless the motor vehicle is transporting a person who has been issued a valid
placard or international symbol of access special plates and either:
      (1)   The motor vehicle displays the valid permanently disabled or
temporarily disabled removable windshield placard; or
      (2)   The motor vehicle displays international symbol of access special
plates that are currently registered to the vehicle.
   (B)   A person who is chauffeuring a person with a physical disability
without a placard or international symbol of access special plates may park
momentarily in a parking space provided pursuant to this section for the
purpose of loading or unloading the person with a physical disability, and a
complaint shall not be issued to the driver for the momentary parking.
(1976 Code, § 12-3-7) (Ord. 561-10, passed 7-26-2010)  Penalty, see §
72.09
§ 72.08 TRUCK TRACTOR AND/OR SEMI-TRAILER PARKING.
   (A)   The term SEMI-TRAILER used in this section shall mean a freight
trailer that when attached is supported at its forward end by the fifth wheel
device of the truck tractor.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to park a truck tractor and/or semi-
trailer upon any street in a residential area of the city. Exception from this
restriction shall only apply in cases where delivery or pick-up of merchandise,
materials or equipment is involved at a specific location.
(1976 Code, § 12-3-8) (Ord. 47, passed 1-27-1981)  Penalty, see §
72.09
§ 72.09 OWNER LIABILITY IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
   (A)   In any proceeding alleging a violation of any of the provisions of
this code governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, the person in whose
name such vehicle is registered and the person who parked or placed the vehicle
shall be jointly and severally responsible for such violation and subject to a
civil sanction therefor.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above shall apply to those persons in
whose names such vehicle is jointly registered. Said persons shall be jointly
and severally responsible for such a violation and subject to a civil sanction
therefor.
(1976 Code, § 12-3-9) (Ord. 603-13, passed 8-21-2013)
CHAPTER 73: DYNAMIC BRAKING DEVICES
Section
   
73.01   Definition
   
73.02   Prohibited
§ 73.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DYNAMIC BRAKING DEVICE. Commonly referred to as JAKE BRAKE, means a device
used primarily on trucks for the conversion of energy from an internal
combustion engine to an air compressor for the purpose of braking without the
use of wheel brakes.
(1976 Code, § 12-4-1) (Ord. 412-00, passed 10-26-2000)
§ 73.02 PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to use dynamic braking devices (commonly
referred to as “Jake brake”) while operating any motor vehicle with the dynamic
braking device engaged, except for the aversion of imminent danger; for slowing
or stopping any vehicle, within the city limits.
(1976 Code, § 12-4-2) (Ord. 412-00, passed 10-26-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   HEALTH; NUISANCES
      
92.   FIRE CODE; FIREWORKS
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
94.   SOLID FUEL-BURNING DEVICES
      
95.   MARIJUANA REGULATIONS
      
96.   SMOKING AND ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Vicious animals
   
90.03   Dogs
   
90.04   Cats
   
90.05   Livestock
   
90.06   General impound and enforcement
   
90.07   Quarantine
   
90.08   Cruelty; neglect; abandonment; impound
   
90.09   Violations; court hearings
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any dog, cat or other domestic animal, livestock, wild animal or
vicious animal.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any Police Department officer, community resource
officer or animal control officer whose duties include the supervision of the
animal control facility and enforcement of state, county and city codes.
   ANIMAL VIOLATION CITATION. A citation issued by the Animal Control Officer
to an owner who has violated provisions of this chapter and commanding him or
her to appear before the Magistrate Court or pay a fine by mail.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the control of the
owner while physically tethered to and immediately controlled by a leash.
   BARKING DOG AS A PUBLIC NUISANCE. A dog that barks, bays, howls or makes any
other noise continuously and incessantly or in such a loud or unusual manner as
to disturb the sleep, peace, quiet or enjoyment of life or property by a
reasonable person.
   CAT AS A PUBLIC NUISANCE. A cat that damages, defiles or soils either public
or private property or harms the lawful users or occupants thereof or a cat
that makes excessive noise or attacks other animals.
   COLLAR. A band, chain, harness or suitable device worn around the neck of an
animal to which a tag may be affixed.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL.  Any animal customarily designated as a pet, e.g., dog,
cat, caged bird, rabbit, hamster and non-venomous reptile or snake which is
permitted to live in or about the owner’s home and yard. Specifically excluded
are vicious animals, wild animals and livestock.
   FINE. Any fee imposed for violation of this chapter.
   LIVESTOCK. Any animal, e.g., horse, mule, cow, sheep, goat, calf, swine,
chicken or other animal traditionally maintained for market safe, human
consumption or utility.
   OWNER. Any person owning, keeping, possessing, controlling, harboring or
maintaining an animal.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. An animal that does any of the following:
      (1)   Is at large;
      (2)   Damages property;
      (3)   Intimidates, injures or emotionally distresses any person;
      (4)   Chases a vehicle or bicycle;
      (5)   Excessively makes disturbing noises, including, but not limited to,
continued barking, whining or other utterances causing unreasonable annoyance,
disturbance or discomfort to neighbors or others in close proximity to the
premises where the animal is kept;
      (6)   Causes by odor a fouling of the air and thereby creates
unreasonable annoyance or discomfort to neighbors or others in close proximity
to the premises where the animal is kept;
      (7)   Defecates while at large upon the surface of any public street,
public sidewalk, public place or private property without thorough and
immediate removal of the debris; or
      (8)   Causes unsanitary conditions in enclosures or surroundings where
the animal is kept or harbored.
   VACCINATION. Administration of any vaccine required by state, county or city
code.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal that has a propensity to attack, impose fear of
immediate harm, cause injury or to otherwise endanger the safety of the public,
animals or property without provocation or that has been so declared after a
hearing before the City Magistrate.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal not historically kept as a domestic pet by the
general public and is usually found living at will in a natural habitat.
(1976 Code, § 6-1)
§ 90.02 VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   Vicious animals at large. It is unlawful for an owner to permit a
vicious animal to run at large. The vicious animal shall be immediately
impounded by the Animal Control Officer.
   (B)   Displays of vicious animals. Public exhibitions or parades of vicious
or wild animals may be conducted only upon securing a permit.
   (C)   Destruction of vicious animals. An officer of the Police Department or
Animal Control Officer is authorized to immediately destroy any vicious animal,
including domestic animals, livestock and wild animals, when it is immediately
necessary for the protection of a person or property.
(1976 Code, § 6-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.03 DOGS.
   (A)   Licenses and tags.
      (1)   All dogs kept within the city must be licensed. The City Police
Department, upon payment of a license fee, shall issue a dog license. Multiple
year licenses may be issued not to exceed the expiration of the existing rabies
vaccination. The owner shall state at the time of application the owner(s) name
and address and the name, breed, color and sex of each dog owned or kept. All
fees subject of this section shall be set by resolution of the Mayor and City
Council.
      (2)   An owner shall obtain a dog license within 30 days of acquiring the
animal. Any animal not properly licensed shall be subject to an animal
violation citation and impoundment.
      (3)   Any dog licensed shall receive a tag issued by the Police
Department. The tag shall be attached by the owner to a collar or harness that
shall be worn by the dog at all times. When a dog tag is lost, a duplicate tag
shall be issued upon application by the owner and payment of a fee. Any dog not
wearing a dog tag shall be subject to an animal violation citation and
impoundment.
      (4)   It is unlawful to counterfeit a dog tag, remove the tag from any
dog without the permission of the owner, or to place a dog tag upon a dog other
than the licensed animal.
      (5)   When the ownership of a dog has been changed, the new owner must
secure a new license as required by this chapter.
      (6)   The Animal Control Officer shall impound any dog found without a
current license or tag.
   (B)   Vaccinations required.
      (1)   Before a license is issued for any dog, the owner must present a
rabies vaccination certificate signed by a veterinarian, stating the owner’s
name and address and giving the dog(s) description, date of vaccination, type
and manufacturer, and serial number of the vaccine and date revaccination is
due. Upon re-vaccination, a duplicate certificate shall be transmitted to the
City Police Department within 30 days. A dog shall not be licensed unless it is
vaccinated in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   If an impounded dog is found to be without current vaccination, the
Animal Control Officer is authorized to condition release on confirmation that
the dog will be vaccinated. Any dog without a current vaccination shall be
subject to an animal violation citation.
   (C)   Barking dogs; dogs at large; public nuisance. An owner of a dog shall
not permit the dog to bark, run at large or otherwise be a public nuisance as
defined by § 90.01.
   (D)   Owner liability. Injury to any person(s) or damage to any property
shall be the responsibility of the owner for which the Magistrate Court may
require payment of restitution in addition to citation fees.
   (E)   Leash requirements. Dogs shall at all times, without exception, be
tethered and immediately controlled by a leash when at large off the owner’s
premises. This section specifically intends to prohibit an owner from being in
the vicinity of an animal with a leash in the owner’s possession but not
tethered to the animal.
(1976 Code, § 6-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.04 CATS.
   (A)   Public nuisance. An owner of a cat shall not permit the cat to be a
public nuisance pursuant to § 90.01. It is also unlawful for the owner to cause
or permit the cat to stray or in any manner be at large while in estrus.
   (B)   Vaccinations. Owners shall have cats vaccinated for rabies and shall
upon request of the Animal Control Officer present a rabies vaccination
certificate signed by a veterinarian stating the date of vaccination, type and
manufacturer and serial number of the vaccine and date re-vaccination is due.
   (C)   Owner liability. The Animal Control Officer shall apprehend and
impound any cat found to be a public nuisance, injury to any person(s) or
damage to any property by a cat shall be the full responsibility of the owner
of the cat at the time the injuries occurred.
(1976 Code, § 6-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.05 LIVESTOCK.
   (A)   Running at large; public nuisance. An owner of livestock shall not
permit the livestock to be a public nuisance pursuant to § 90.01.
   (B)   Owner liability. Injury to any person(s) or damage to any property by
any animal at large or as a public nuisance shall be the responsibility of the
owner of the animal at the time the injuries or damage occurred.
(1976 Code, § 6-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.06 GENERAL IMPOUND AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Duty of Police Department. The Animal Control Officer shall impound
animals, issue citations to owners and enforce all other provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Impound; animals at large or a public nuisance. The Animal Control
Officer shall impound any animal found to be at large or a public nuisance
pursuant to §
90.01.
   (C)   Impound terms and fees. Any impounded animal shall be detained until
the owner pays outstanding citations and the costs incurred by the animal
control shelter in apprehending, transporting, treating and housing the animal.
Quarantine provisions of §
90.07, if applicable, shall prescribe extended release terms and fees.
   (D)   Report of impounded animals. The Animal Control Officer shall, within
24 hours after impounding an animal, post a report with the Police Department
stating the kind of animal impounded and describing it by color, marks or
brands and a date of impound.
   (E)   Disposition of unclaimed animals. Any impounded animal that has not
been claimed and fees paid within 72 hours of impound shall be made available
for adoption, sale or humanely destroyed.
   (F)   Impeding the Animal Control Officer. It is unlawful for any person to
intervene, impede, prevent, obstruct or intimidate any member of the City
Police Department or Animal Control Officer in the discharge of duties to
enforce provisions of this chapter.
(1976 Code, § 6-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.07 QUARANTINE.
   (A)   Biting dogs and cats.
      (1)   Any unvaccinated dog or cat that bites a person shall be impounded
and quarantined for ten days from the occurrence of the bite. An Animal Control
Officer shall cause the animal to be quarantined at the animal shelter or a
veterinary clinic for the observation period at the owner’s expense.
      (2)   Any vaccinated dog or cat that bites a person shall be confined or
quarantined for ten days from the time of occurrence of the bite. The
quarantine may be maintained in the home of the owner if the dog is kept under
conditions prescribed by an Animal Control Officer.
   (B)   Biting livestock. Livestock that bite any person shall be impounded
and quarantined at the animal shelter or other location prescribed by the
Animal Control Officer for a period of not less than 14 days; such quarantine
shall be at the expense of the owner.
   (C)   Biting wild animals. Any wild animal that bites any person or directly
exposes a person to its saliva may be destroyed. Euthanized animals may be
delivered to an appropriate diagnostic laboratory for examination pursuant to
A.R.S. § 11-1014.C.
   (D)   Euthanizing of quarantined animals.
      (1)   An Animal Control Officer may destroy any animal confined and
quarantined pursuant to this section prior to the termination of the minimum
confinement period for laboratory examination for rabies under the following
circumstances:
         (a)   Such animal shows clear clinical signs of rabies; or
         (b)   The owner of such animal consents to its destruction.
      (2)   At the termination of the confinement period, the Animal Control
Officer shall destroy an animal that shows clear clinical signs of rabies.
      (3)   An Animal Control Officer may extend the minimum confinement period
if continued observation is reasonable calculated to protect the public.
(1976 Code, § 6-7)
§ 90.08 CRUELTY; NEGLECT; ABANDONMENT; IMPOUND.
   (A)   Cruelty. Cruelty to animals is strictly prohibited. An owner shall not
unreasonably discipline, beat, torment, mutilate, abandon, overwork, destroy or
deprive an animal of basic needs that would threaten its survival.
   (B)   Neglect.
      (1)   Animals shall be housed in a healthy environment and provided with
proper food, water, shelter, medical care, exercise space and ventilation.
      (2)   Owners shall ensure that:
         (a)   All animals receive daily food that is free from contamination
and is of sufficient quantity and nutritive value to maintain the animal in
good health;
         (b)   Potable water is accessible to the animal at all times;
         (c)   All animals have convenient access to natural or artificial
shelter. The shelter shall be structurally sound and maintained in good repair
to protect the animal from the elements and of sufficient size to permit the
animal to enter, stand, turn around and lie down in a natural manner. A shelter
which does not protect the animal from harmful temperature extremes or
precipitation, or which does not provide adequate ventilation or drainage, does
not comply with this section;
         (d)   All animals receive adequate care and medical treatment for
standard vaccinations, debilitating injuries, parasites and diseases sufficient
to maintain the animal in good health;
         (e)   All animals confined by a chain, leash, wire, cable or similar
restraint system shall be humanely attached and located so that the animal will
be freely ambulatory and cannot become entangled with other objects; and
         (f)   No animal shall be kept in a vehicle or other enclosed space in
which the temperature is either so high or so low, or the ventilation is so
inadequate, as to endanger the animal’s life or health. The Police Department
or an Animal Control Officer is authorized to use reasonable force to remove an
animal from a vehicle or other enclosed space if it appears that extreme
temperatures or lack of ventilation endangers the animal’s life. No enforcement
officer or the city shall be liable for damages to property caused by the use
of reasonable force to remove an animal from such vehicle or enclosed space.
   (C)   Abandonment. An owner shall not abandon or recklessly discard animals
within the city limits on either public or private property.
   (D)   Impound of mistreated animals. The Animal Control Officer may cite any
owner and impound any animal that is suffering from cruelty, neglect or
abandonment.
(1976 Code, § 6-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.09 VIOLATIONS; COURT HEARINGS.
   (A)   The Magistrate Court shall establish a fine schedule for violations of
this chapter which shall be approved and amended from time to time by
resolution of the Mayor and City Council.
   (B)   The Animal Control Officer or owner may request a hearing to discuss
future care, treatment or placement of the animal. The Magistrate Court may
order that an animal shall not be returned to the owner for violations of §§
90.02 or
90.08.
(1976 Code, § 6-9)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH; NUISANCES
Section
   
91.01   Purpose and scope
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Enforcement authority
   
91.04   Inspections
   
91.05   Public nuisance prohibited
   
91.06   Violations; remedies
   
91.07   Withholding of permits
   
91.08   Enforcement, generally
   
91.09   Informal mediation or intervention and summary action
   
91.10   Abatement
   
91.11   Civil and criminal enforcement
   
91.12   Emergency abatement; vacation of premises
§ 91.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the city and to protect the community from
deterioration and decline by establishing minimum standards for the use and
maintenance of all buildings, structures, premises and land, whether developed
or undeveloped.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided, this chapter shall apply to all land
within the city without regard to the use or occupancy or the date of
acquisition or annexation.
(1976 Code, § 9-1-1) (Ord. 593-12, passed 8-8-2012)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED OR JUNK VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is partially or wholly
dismantled, discarded, wrecked, on blocks or similar devices, stripped or
scrapped; or a vehicle with one or more deflated tires or from which a wheel or
tire has been removed; or any motor vehicle which is inoperable due to
mechanical failure or mechanical disassembly or other reasons, whether
currently registered or not. The absence of current registration or license
plate lawfully assigned and affixed thereto or immobilization for 60 days shall
be prima facie evidence of inoperability.
   AUTHORIZED RECEPTACLE. A litter, refuse, trash or recyclable storage and
collection receptacle, which is materially unaltered and has the lid or cover
secured and closed as required and authorized pursuant to the City of Page
Agreement for Garbage Collection.
   CITY AGREEMENT FOR GARBAGE COLLECTION. The contemporary agreement for
residential and commercial solid waste and recyclable collection and removal
required to be on file with the City Clerk pursuant to §
50.01(B).
   DESIGNATED CITY OFFICIAL. Any city employee, whether directed and authorized
by the City Manager, job description, statute or by code or regulation adopted
by the city, having purview over the respective issue.
   DISMANTLED. Materially altered by removal of essential parts.
   GARBAGE. Household waste (including single- and multiple-family residences
and some commercial enterprises such as hotels, offices, restaurants and other
such businesses) that is permitted to be placed in on-site receptacles.
   GRAFFITI. As defined by §
131.01.
   GRASS. Barnyard, Bermuda, Bromegrass, Johnson, bluegrass, crab, foxtail,
ragweed, rye, wild oats or hybrids thereof.
   HAZARD. A condition that presents a threat to life or public safety or that
may cause physical harm in violation of Chapter 150 of this code of ordinances.
   HAZARDOUS WASTES. Sludge from a waste treatment plant, water supply
treatment plant or air pollution control facility, or other discarded
materials, including solid, liquid, semisolid or contained gaseous material,
resulting from industrial, commercial, mining and agricultural operations or
from community or private activities which because of its quantity,
concentration or physical, chemical or infectious characteristics may cause or
significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an increase in serious
irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness or pose a substantial present
or potential hazard to human health or the environment if improperly treated,
stored, transported, disposed of or otherwise managed.
   IMMINENT HAZARD. A condition that presents an immediate threat to life or
public safety or the likelihood of causing personal physical harm in violation
of
Chapter 150 of this code of ordinances.
   IMPROVED PROPERTY. Land on which buildings or other structures are located
or which has otherwise been developed for a legal use.
   INFESTATION. The apparent presence of insects, rodents or other pests.
   JUNK. Items that in their present state are of little or no apparent or
objective economic value, except that which is confined within an industrial or
commercial area in compliance with the City Zoning Code, including, but not
limited to, discarded or scrapped furniture; glass, metal, paper, appliances,
fixtures or machinery parts; inoperative machinery or appliances; vehicle
bodies or parts, including tires; building material; litter; or discarded or
empty containers.
   LAND. All land in the city, whether improved or unimproved.
   LITTER. Any rubbish, refuse, waste materials, paper, glass, cans, bottles,
organic or inorganic trash, debris, dead animals or any foreign substance of
any kind or description, including abandoned or junk vehicles, regardless of
their value.
   LITTERING. The act of placing, dumping, throwing or depositing litter.
   MANURE. Animal excreta, including that accumulated in or from barns,
stables, corrals, pens or conveyances used from stabling, transporting or
penning of animals or fowl, with the exception of animal excreta purposely
disposed of by spreading and tilling under the soil or used as fertilizer.
   NOTICE TO ABATE. A notice issued to a property owner or occupant concerning
a violation of this chapter or other code or regulation adopted by the city.
   OCCUPANT. The person occupying or having possession or custody of a
structure or premises as an owner, a lessee or otherwise.
   OWNER. The person indicated on the public records as the owner of record of
the property in question.
   PERSON. A human being, enterprise, corporation, association, partnership,
firm or society.
   PLANT GROWTH. Vegetation, whether living or dead, such as grass, weeds,
vines, bushes, cactus or trees.
   POLLUTED. A condition that exists in water and is characterized by bacterial
growth, algae, insect infestation, the remains of litter, debris, garbage or
other foreign matter which, because of its nature or location, constitutes an
unhealthy, unsafe or unsightly condition and a violation of any applicable
health and safety codes.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, sidewalk, boulevard, alley, right-of-way or other
public way and any public park, square, space, ground, path, trail or building.
   REFUSE. All biodegradable or non-biodegradable solid or semisolid wastes,
except human excreta, but including garbage, rubbish, ashes, trash, manure,
dead animals, junk vehicles, construction materials and industrial wastes.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. An owner, lessee, cotenant, occupant, manager or other
person responsible for the maintenance or condition of the real property,
including buildings, grounds, lots or premises, or a person otherwise charged
with a violation of this chapter.
   RUBBISH. All non-biodegradable solid wastes, excluding ashes, consisting of
both combustible and noncombustible wastes, such as paper, cardboard, waste
metal, tin cans, yard clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, construction
and similar materials.
   STORED. Parking, leaving, locating, keeping, maintaining, depositing,
remaining or being physically present on private property.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines or every way
publicly owned or maintained.
   TRASH. Paper, rags, old clothing, paper containers, pieces of wood, rubber
or plastic, boxes, barrels or crates, construction materials, feathers, weeds,
grass and tree limbs or shrub limbs.
   UNIMPROVED PROPERTY. Bare land upon which no buildings or other structures
have been erected or which otherwise undeveloped for a legal use.
   UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION. In such dilapidated or unsafe condition as to
present an immediate safety or fire hazard or in such unsanitary conditions as
to be a menace to health or lacking water, sewer or electrical facilities for
proper maintenance of sanitary, safe and healthful conditions in violation of
Chapter 150 of this code of ordinances.
   VEHICLE. Every device by which any person or property is or may be
transported.
   WEEDS. Any vegetation which is, or is likely to be, detrimental, destructive
or unsightly and difficult to control or eradicate, including, but not limited
to, bull thistle, cocklebur, foxtail, horseweed, lambsquarters, London rocket,
mallow, milkweed, pigweed, mustards, prickly lettuce, ragweed, Russian thistle,
goat heads, tumble weeds, sheperdspurse, sow thistle, White Horse-nettle,
willow-weed and those types of plant growth defined as noxious weeds by A.R.S.
§ 3-201 regardless of whether a particular property owner or occupant who is
the subject of enforcement action under this code regards the growth as
desirable.
(1976 Code, § 9-1-2) (Ord. 593-12, passed 8-8-2012; Ord. 628-16, passed 6-22-
2016)
§ 91.03 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The City Community Enhancement Technician, in coordination and
cooperation with such other designated city officials, is hereby authorized and
directed to enforce all provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   In enforcing this chapter, the City Community Enhancement Technician,
peace officer or other designated city official, may take one or more of the
following actions by first utilizing the least punitive action and progressing
to more severe actions only as necessary for compliance:
      (1)   Informal intervention with the responsible party;
      (2)   Where the violation is on public property, such as noncompliant
posting of signs in a public right-of-way, take summary action to remove the
violation and, where possible, serve notice of the action or written warning,
issue a civil or criminal citation;
      (3)   Issue a notice and order to abate to the responsible party in
accordance with the procedures set forth in this chapter;
      (4)   Issue a criminal or civil citation to the responsible party in
accordance with the procedures set forth in this chapter; or
      (5)   In the case of an imminent hazard or a building or structure which
is unfit for human habitation, with the concurrence and approval of the City
Manager, take emergency remedial action or issue an order to vacate the
premises in accordance with the procedures set forth in this chapter.
   (C)   The authority of the City Community Enhancement Technician to enforce
the provisions of this chapter is independent of and complementary to the
authority of other designated city officials to enforce the provisions of any
other statute, code or regulation. The remedies provided for in this chapter
are cumulative and in addition to any other remedies established by law, and
this chapter shall not be interpreted as limiting the penalties, actions or
abatement procedures which may be taken by the City or other officials under
other laws, ordinances or rules.
(1976 Code, § 9-1-3) (Ord. 593-12, passed 8-8-2012; Ord. 628-16, passed 6-22-
2016)
§ 91.04 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The City Community Enhancement Technician, or such other designated
city official, is hereby authorized to make inspections for violations of this
chapter in the normal course of job duties or in response to a citizen
complaint when there is reason to believe that a violation of this chapter has
been or is being committed and where necessary to certify compliance with an
enforcement action.
   (B)   In order to investigate possible violations or to determine compliance
with this chapter, private property may be entered with the consent of the
owner or occupant. If consent is denied or cannot be obtained, private property
may only be entered with an administrative warrant issued by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
(1976 Code, § 9-1-4) (Ord. 593-12, passed 8-8-2012; Ord. 628-16, passed 6-22-
2016)
§ 91.05 PUBLIC NUISANCE PROHIBITED.
   The following acts, omissions, conditions and things in or upon any land or
structure in the city, or the failure to comply with any of the following
standards constitute public nuisances, the existence of which are hereby
prohibited and declared to be unlawful; the provisions of this section are not
exclusive and may be duplicative of other provisions, codes and regulations
adopted by the city; all provisions, codes and regulations of the city,
including those in this section, may be applied cumulatively or separately for
purposes of enforcement.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to maintain any condition defined as or deemed to
be a nuisance or hazard to the public health, safety or welfare by any statute
of the state or any code or ordinance adopted by the city.
   (B)   Any attractive nuisance, dangerous to children and other persons
including, but not limited to, abandoned, broken, or neglected household
appliances, equipment and machinery, abandoned foundations or excavations, or
improperly maintained or secured pool, hot tub or spa.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to erect or maintain within the city any
above ground electric fence.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or allow the storage of
any abandoned or junk vehicle, except where such storage is in complete
compliance with this chapter and the City Zoning Code.
      (1)   In residential areas, all abandoned or junk vehicles being stored,
restored or repaired shall be kept safely within a lawful building or structure
or behind a lawful fence in such a manner as to not be visible from beyond the
lot boundaries.
      (2)   Abandoned or junk vehicles shall not be stored on the premises of a
business enterprise unless the enterprise is lawfully licensed under the city
code for such purpose, or such storage is necessary to the operation of the
business enterprise, and such storage is otherwise in conformance with the city
code and zoning ordinance.
   (E)   No person shall allow, deposit, store, accumulate or maintain garbage,
trash, refuse, rubbish, litter or junk that is visible from beyond the lot
boundaries, except for temporary storage of such materials in an authorized
receptacle for collection in compliance with Chapter 50 of this code.
   (F)   No person shall deposit, discard, store, maintain or knowingly permit
to remain on land, under his or her control, in a place accessible to children,
any icebox, refrigerator, ice chest or other airtight or semi-airtight
container or appliance which has a capacity of one and one-half cubic feet or
more and/or an opening of 20 square inches or more and which has a door or lid
equipped with hinge, latch or other fastening device.
   (G)   All persons owning or occupying land, whether improved or unimproved,
shall keep the sidewalks or public places fronting or bordering their property
free of garbage, trash, refuse, rubbish, litter or junk; provided, however,
this section shall not prohibit the temporary storage of such materials in
authorized receptacles for collection in compliance with Chapter 50 of this
code.
   (H)   No owner or occupant of land, whether improved or unimproved, shall
allow trees, shrubs or plant growth on that land to encroach upon or impede,
obstruct or interfere with passage on, any street, sidewalk, easement or alley
within the city or to obstruct visibility of any traffic control device or
signal, or dead, decayed, diseased or hazardous trees, weeds, hedges, and
overgrown or uncultivated vegetation which is in a hazardous condition or which
is likely to harbor rats, vermin or other pests. This section does not apply to
properly maintained compost bins.
   (I)   No owner or occupant of land, whether improved or unimproved, except
on land designated as parks/open space or future development, shall allow,
maintain, or accumulate weeds, grass or other plant growth that are dead,
dormant, sticker, or due to height or dryness, constitute a hazard as deemed by
the Fire Marshal. When in the opinion of the Fire Marshal, the large size or
terrain of property makes the cutting of all weeds or grasses impractical, the
Fire Marshal, or designee, may, by written order, allow and limit the required
cutting of weeds and grasses to a firebreak of not less than 15 feet in width
cut around the complete perimeter of the property and around any structures
existing upon the property, unless the Fire Marshal, or designee determines
that a firebreak of a lesser width will provide adequate protection against
fire spread at the particular location. Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit
plant or weed growth, with the exception of noxious weeds, utilized for grazing
on land designated as residential estate.
   (J)   No person or owner shall deposit into, sweep upon or allow or permit
to drain into any public right-of-way or place any hazardous material, garbage,
trash, refuse, rubbish, litter or junk, or similar matter which is offensive to
sight or smell or impedes passage or is detrimental to public health.
   (K)   It is unlawful for the owner or occupant of land to cause or permit
disagreeable or obnoxious odors to emanate beyond the boundaries of the land.
   (L)   It is unlawful to occupy any building or other structure which is
unfit for human habitation in violation of Chapter 150 of this code of
ordinances.
   (M)   It is unlawful to allow any swimming pool or similar body of water to
stagnate and thereby become eutrophic, polluted or offensive to the senses and
unsafe for its intended use in violation of any applicable health and safety
code.
   (N)   No owner or occupant of land, whether improved or unimproved, shall
cause or permit unreasonable quantities of smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot or
cinders to emanate beyond the boundaries of that land except with a Fire
Department burning permit.
   (O)   It is unlawful for any owner or occupant of land to fail to properly
repair or replace any collapsed or fallen fence adjacent to the public right-
of-way.
   (P)   In accordance with Chapter 91 of this code, except for specific
permitted or licensed activities, it shall be unlawful for any person to
display any article for sale outdoors on any property, whether improved or
unimproved, or on any public place; and no owner or occupant of property,
whether improved or unimproved, shall allow or permit such outdoor displays.
This provision shall not apply to garage or yard sales.
   (Q)   In residential zones, it shall be unlawful for any person to park or
store and for an owner or occupant of land to allow or permit any person to
park or store on the owner’s or occupant’s land any commercial vehicle having a
gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) exceeding 14,000 pounds, except that
temporary parking is permitted for the purpose of delivery or the loading and
unloading of household goods.
   (R)   No person shall place any sign in any public right-of-way or attach
any sign to any public utility structure, traffic-control device, traffic light
standard or similar structure, except signs erected by a public utility or
government agency and those permitted by city ordinance or other law, but only
for those places, times and specific purposes permitted.
   (S)   All vacant or abandoned buildings shall be secured against
unauthorized entry at all times.
   (T)   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully or negligently permit
or cause the escape or flow of water from the municipal water system in such
quantity as to cause flooding, impede vehicular or pedestrian traffic, create a
hazardous condition to such traffic, create a condition which constitutes a
threat to the public health and safety, or cause damage to the public streets
or alleys of the city.
   (U)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or negligently
deposit leaves, grass, weeds, sand, stones, or the like on a public sidewalk,
alley, street, right-of-way, or other public property. It shall also be
unlawful for a property owner or occupant of property to willfully or
negligently allow the accumulation of said debris on a public sidewalk, alley,
street, or right-of-way on said property.
(1976 Code, § 9-1-5) (Ord. 593-12, passed 8-8-2012; Ord. 628-16, passed 6-22-
2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.06 VIOLATIONS; REMEDIES.
   Penalties for violations of this chapter shall be pursuant to §
10.99. In addition and concurrently, the city may employ all other enforcement
remedies, and impose all other sanctions, available to it under this chapter or
as otherwise provided by law. Each day in which a violation of this chapter
continues or the responsible party fails to perform any act or duty required by
this chapter or by a notice and order to abate shall constitute a separate
criminal or civil offense.
(1976 Code, § 9-1-6) (Ord. 593-12, passed 8-8-2012)
§ 91.07 WITHHOLDING OF PERMITS.
   From the date a notice and order to abate expires without compliance by the
responsible party until the nuisance is abated or the city’s costs of abatement
are reimbursed (whichever occurs later), the city may withhold or suspend any
permit or approval of any alteration, repair or construction of any existing or
new structure or sign on the property, as well as any permit or approval
pertaining to the use or development of the property; provided, however, that
no permit or approval necessary to correct the nuisance conditions shall be
withheld.
(1976 Code, § 9-1-7) (Ord. 593-12, passed 8-8-2012)
§ 91.08 ENFORCEMENT; GENERALLY.
   After appropriate or necessary investigation, documentation and inspection,
the City Community Enhancement Technician, a peace officer or other designated
city official may take, in compliance with §
91.03(B), one or more of the following actions:
   (A)   Informal verbal or written notice to abate;
   (B)   Informal mediation or intervention with the responsible party;
   (C)   Summary action to remove the violation, followed by appropriate
notice, warning or enforcement action;
   (D)   Issue a formal notice and order to abate;
   (E)   Issue a criminal or civil citation with notice to appear; and/or
   (F)   Take emergency action for abatement or vacation of premises.
(1976 Code, § 9-1-8) (Ord. 593-12, passed 8-8-2012; Ord. 628-16, passed 6-22-
2016)
§ 91.09 INFORMAL MEDIATION OR INTERVENTION AND SUMMARY ACTION.
   (A)   Informal mediation or intervention. Whenever in the judgment of the
City Community Enhancement Technician, or other designated official, action
short of formal citation or notice and order to abate is likely to achieve
satisfactory and timely compliance, informal intervention, including written
and verbal communication providing up to 14 days in which to remedy the
violation(s), may be used.
   (B)   Summary action. Where obvious and elemental violations occur and entry
onto private property is not necessary to enforcement, e.g., in the case of
illegal posting of advertising in public rights-of-way, the City Community
Enhancement Technician, or other designated official, may remove or summarily
abate the violation. In such cases, evidence of the violation shall be
forwarded to the City Code Enforcement Officer, or other appropriate official
for identification of the responsible party and follow-up enforcement.
(1976 Code, § 9-1-8.1) (Ord. 593-12, passed 8-8-2012; Ord. 628-16, passed 6-22-
2016)
§ 91.10 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Administrative abatement.
      (1)   Abatement commenced pursuant to A.R.S. § 9-499 (as amended), shall
be known as an administrative abatement. The purpose of an administrative
abatement is to compel the person or responsible party of the property to
remove rubbish, trash, weeds or other accumulation of filth, debris or
dilapidated structures which constitute a hazard to public health and safety
from buildings, grounds, lots, contiguous sidewalks, streets and alleys of the
city. Notice of abatement shall be given in accordance with the procedures set
forth in this chapter and only after informal mediation or intervention has
failed to remedy the violation.
      (2)   If the City Community Enhancement Technician, or other designated
official, determines that a violation of this chapter has occurred, he or she
shall advise the responsible party by written notice and order to comply that
the violation must be corrected and removed from the property. The notice shall
be given to the responsible party not less than 30 days before the date set for
compliance if the violation is to be abated by administrative procedure
pursuant to A.R.S. § 9-499 (as amended).
         (a)   If the property owner is not the defendant or responsible party
named in the action, notice shall also be given to the owner in accordance with
the procedures set forth in this chapter.
         (b)   The notice shall include:
            1.   A legal description of the premises, street address, tax
parcel number and a summary of violations known to exist together with the code
section references;
            2.   A detailed description of the condition(s) constituting the
violation(s) along with legal citation(s) of applicable code, statutory or
regulatory provision(s);
            3.   Re-inspection date, if any;
            4.   The estimated cost of abatement together with costs of
additional inspections and other incidental connected costs;
            5.   A description of the appeal process. Pursuant to A.R.S. § 9-
499 (as amended), the responsible party may appeal both the notice and the
assessments by requesting a hearing before the City Council within the time set
for compliance. If no timely appeal is made, or the City Council affirms the
abatement, the city may remove, abate, enjoin or cause the removal of the
violation after the compliance time has elapsed; and
            6.   Name, business address and business phone number of the City
Community Enhancement Technician and/or other city official who issued the
notice.
      (3)   The costs for abatement, plus associated legal costs, shall be
recorded as an assessment on the property and collected as provided in A.R.S. §
9-499 (as amended), including commencing a sale of the property and judgment of
foreclosure in Superior Court. A prior assessment under the statute shall not
be a bar to subsequent assessments, and any number of assessments on the same
lot or tract of land may be enforced in the same action.
      (4)   Service of the notice to abate shall be deemed complete on the date
it is hand delivered or mailed certified mail, return receipt requested,
addressed to the property owner or responsible party. If personal service or
mailed service is not practicable, service of notice also shall be deemed
effective upon notification through a one-time public notice published in a
newspaper of general circulation within the city and by posting a duplicate
notice on the property for a period of 30 days. Nothing herein shall preclude
the city from giving additional verbal or written notice at its discretion.
      (5)   Notice pursuant to §
91.09(A) shall occur prior to commencement of other enforcement proceedings,
including civil or criminal proceedings. Abatement will not preclude also
seeking civil or criminal enforcement actions.
      (6)   Statement of account: when the city has undertaken action to abate
the nuisance, the City Community Enhancement Technician, or other authorized
official, shall prepare a verified statement of the actual costs of abatement,
including an administration charge of 5% and serve said statement in accordance
with the procedures as set forth within this chapter.
      (7)   Recording of violation and/or lien of assessment: the notice to
abate and statement of account and any assessment lien recorded by the city
shall run with the land. The city, at its sole discretion, may record a notice
and order to abate or a statement of account with the County Recorder and
thereby cause compliance by an entity thereafter acquiring such property. When
the property is brought into compliance, a satisfaction of notice to abate
shall be recorded with the County Recorder. When an assessment lien is paid
off, a satisfaction of the lien shall be recorded.
   (B)   Court ordered abatement.
      (1)   In addition to any other abatement procedure provided in this
chapter, in accordance with A.R.S. § 9-500.21 the City Manager or his or her
designee, or the City Attorney’s office, may apply to the Municipal Court for
an order permitting the city to abate any condition that constitutes a
violation of this Public Nuisance Code.
      (2)   After notice to the owner and any responsible party, the Judge or
court hearing officer shall conduct a hearing. The hearing shall be informal
and open to the public. Evidence may be taken from any interested party and
considered in determining whether a condition in violation of the public
nuisance ordinance exists and what, if any, abatement action should be
permitted. Any person who fails to appear after notice of the hearing may be
deemed to have waived any right to introduce evidence. The court’s
determination shall be based on the preponderance of evidence.
      (3)   If the city seeks court-ordered abatement as a remedy in addition
to any sanction, penalty, incarceration, restitution or fine, it shall assess
the abatement costs as set forth in this chapter and/or those established in
the judgment and sentence. The court may allow an appropriate time for
compliance and abatement by the responsible party, but compliance will not
preclude the city from requesting criminal penalties depending on how the
violators were charged. Failure by the defendant or responsible party to comply
with abatement will result in the filing of an assessment lien on the property,
as described in A.R.S. § 9-499 (as amended), and may also subject the party to
additional criminal citations for interference with judicial proceedings under
A.R.S. § 13-2810, as amended.
      (4)   Appeal: any party may appeal the judgment of the court to the
Superior Court. Appeals from civil proceedings shall be in accordance with the
Superior Court Rule of Appellate Procedure - Civil. Execution of any judgment
shall be stayed pending appeal.
(1976 Code, § 9-1-8.2) (Ord. 593-12, passed 8-8-2012; Ord. 628-16, passed 6-22-
2016)
§ 91.11 CIVIL AND CRIMINAL ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Authority to issue civil and criminal citations: the City Community
Enhancement Technician, any peace officer and any other city official
authorized by the City Manager may issue a citation pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Civil or criminal enforcement in the City Magistrate Court may be
commenced by the issuance and filing with the court a uniform state traffic
ticket complaint form.
   (C)   Long form complaint: any prosecutor, City Community Enhancement
Technician, peace officer and any other city official authorized by the City
Manager may file a long form complaint with the City Magistrate Court in
accordance with the Arizona Rules of Criminal Procedure.
(1976 Code, § 9-1-8.3) (Ord. 593-12, passed 8-8-2012; Ord. 628-16, passed 6-22-
2016)
§ 91.12 EMERGENCY ABATEMENT; VACATION OF PREMISES.
   (A)   Imminent hazard. If a situation presents an imminent hazard to life or
public safety or immediate likelihood of physical harm, the City Manager may
approve an emergency notice and order to take immediate action as is
appropriate to correct or abate the condition. In addition, or instead, the
City Manager may approve immediate action on the part of city officials to
summarily and unilaterally correct or abate the condition or authorize the
commencement of an action in Superior Court to enjoin the responsible party to
abate the imminent hazard. The inability of city officials to find or contact
the responsible party, despite reasonable efforts to do so, in no way affects
the city’s right or obligation under this section to summarily and unilaterally
correct or abate the condition.
   (B)   Costs of emergency abatement. The city may recover its costs incurred
in abating an imminent hazard under this section in the same manner and with
the same procedures provided for in §
91.10.
   (C)   Notice and appeal. The notice and appeal provisions of this section do
not apply to emergency abatement, except that the owner or occupant or other
responsible party shall be served with and have the right to appeal any
statement of account for costs of abatement as set forth in §
91.10.
   (D)   Vacation of premises.
      (1)   Unfit for human habitation; declaration and order to vacate. In the
case where a building or structure which is determined to be unfit for human
habitation as defined by applicable building, health and safety codes, statutes
or regulations as defined in this chapter or any other applicable code, statute
or regulation, the City Manager is authorized to approve the issuance of a
declaration and order to vacate the premises. The declaration and order shall
be in essentially the same form as a notice and order to abate.
      (2)   Notice. Service of the declaration shall be complete upon delivery
to the occupant, posting in an obvious and conspicuous place on the premises
and upon mailing by certified mail, return receipt requested to the owner at
his or her last known address. The order to vacate shall not take effect until
the time for appeal under this section has lapsed.
      (3)   Appeal and stay. The occupant or owner of the property may appeal
the declaration and order to vacate to the City Magistrate Court by delivering
to the Court Clerk a written statement of appeal within five days after service
is complete. Timely delivery of a written statement of appeal operates as a
stay on the order to vacate until the appeal can be heard. The appeal shall be
heard and a determination made by the City Magistrate or hearing officer within
five days.
      (4)   Violation; removal of posting. Once a building or structure has
been declared unfit for human habitation, it shall be a violation of this
chapter to remove the posted notice unless and until it has been determined by
the city that the conditions warranting the posting have been abated or the
City Magistrate or hearing officer has ruled in favor of the responsible party
on appeal.
      (5)   Reoccupancy. Once a building has become unoccupied as the result of
a notice and order to vacate under this section, it shall remain unoccupied
until reinspected and approved for occupancy by the city. The city shall
reinspect within two business days of the receipt of a written request by the
owner or responsible party.
(1976 Code, § 9-1-8.4) (Ord. 593-12, passed 8-8-2012)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE CODE; FIREWORKS
Section
Fire Code
   
92.01   Short title
   
92.02   Adoption of the International Fire Code, 2018 Edition
   
92.03   Adoption of the National Fire Protection Association Standards, 2017
Edition
   
92.04   Fire Code amendments
   
92.05   Adoption of fire permit fees
Fireworks
   
92.20   Definitions
   
92.21   Fireworks prohibited; exceptions
   
92.22   Sale of fireworks
   
92.23   Posting of signs by persons engaged in the sale of fireworks
   
92.24   Authority to enforce violations of this subchapter
   
92.25   Liability for emergency responses related to use of fireworks;
definitions
   
92.26   Violations
FIRE CODE
§ 92.01 SHORT TITLE.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be known as the “City of Page Fire Code”, and
may be cited as such.
   (B)   Where the designation “International Fire Code” or its abbreviation
“IFC” appears in this subchapter, such shall be construed as referring to the
“International Fire Code” as adopted herein.
   (C)   Where the designation “National Fire Protection Association” or its
abbreviation “NFPA” appears in this subchapter, such shall be construed as
referring to the “National Fire Protection Association” Standards as adopted
herein.
(1976 Code, § 4-3-1) (Ord. 548-09, passed 6-11-2009)
§ 92.02 ADOPTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE, 2018 EDITION.
   That certain code entitled “International Fire Code” 2018 edition, and
Appendix A, B, C, D, E, F, H and I, contained therein, published by the
International Code Council, 500 New Jersey Avenue, NW, 6th Floor, Washington,
DC, 20001, is hereby adopted as the City Fire Code and made a part of this
subchapter the same as though said codes were specifically set forth in full
herein, and a copy of said code shall be on file with the office of the City
Clerk, as well as the City Fire Department, and kept available for public use
and inspection at said locations.
(1976 Code, § 4-3-2) (Ord. 548-09, passed 6-11-2009; Ord. 666-19, passed 12-11-
2019)
§ 92.03 ADOPTION OF THE NATIONAL FIRE PROTECTION ASSOCIATION STANDARDS, 2017
EDITION.
   That certain code entitled “National Fire Protection Association Standards”
2017 edition, 1 Battery March Park Quincy, MA 02169-7471, is hereby adopted as
part of the City Fire Code and made a part of this subchapter the same as
though said codes were specifically set forth in full herein, and a copy of
said code shall be on file with the Office of the City Clerk, as well as the
City Fire Department, and kept available for public use and inspection at said
locations.
(1976 Code, § 4-3-3) (Ord. 548-09, passed 6-11-2009; Ord. 666-19, passed 12-11-
2019)
§ 92.04 FIRE CODE AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   An automatic sprinkler system shall be installed throughout all
buildings 4,000 square feet or greater in total area. For the purpose of this
item, fire resistant walls and barriers shall not define separate buildings.
   (B)   An addition to any existing non-sprinklered building or structure
which expands the total area to 4,000 square feet or greater shall contain an
automatic sprinkler system.
   (C)   With the exception of special hazard areas as approved by the Fire
Chief, if any fire area in a building or structure is provided with fire
sprinklers, whether required or not, all fire areas in the building or
structure shall be provided with fire sprinklers.
   (D)   All buildings requiring an exterior lock box for fire department
access shall install a KNOX BOX in an approved location or locations. Existing
buildings shall have up to five years to comply with this requirement upon
approval of the Fire Chief.
(1976 Code, § 4-3-4) (Ord. 548-09, passed 6-11-2009; Ord. 666-19, passed 12-11-
2019)
§ 92.05 ADOPTION OF FIRE PERMIT FEES.
   The City Council shall periodically establish fire permit fees by separate
resolution.
(1976 Code, § 4-3-5) (Ord. 548-09, passed 6-11-2009)
FIREWORKS
§ 92.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Those fireworks defined by A.R.S. § 36-1601.
   DISPLAY FIREWORKS. Those fireworks defined by the A.R.S. § 36-1601.
   FIREWORKS. Any combustible or explosive composition, substance or
combination of substances, or any article prepared for the purpose of producing
a visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration or
detonation, that is a consumer firework, display firework or permissible
consumer firework as defined by the A.R.S. § 36-1601.
   NOVELTY ITEMS. Federally deregulated novelty items that are known as
snappers, snap caps, party poppers, glow worms, snakes, toy smoke devices,
sparklers and certain toys as defined by the A.R.S. § 36-1601.
   PERMISSIBLE CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Those fireworks as defined by the A.R.S. §
36-1601, that may be sold within the city, even where the use of those items
has been prohibited.
   SUPERVISED PUBLIC DISPLAY. A monitored performance of display fireworks open
to the public and authorized by permit by the Fire Chief or his or her
designee.
(1976 Code, § 4-5-1) (Ord. 565-10, passed 12-20-2010)
§ 92.21 FIREWORKS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The use, discharge or ignition of fireworks within the city is
prohibited, except as provided for in this section.
   (B)   Nothing in this section or subchapter shall be construed to prohibit
the use, discharge or ignition of novelty items.
   (C)   Permits may be granted by the Fire Chief or his or her designee for
conducting a properly supervised public display of fireworks. Every such public
display of fireworks shall be of such character and so located, discharged or
fired, only after proper inspection and in a manner that does not endanger
persons, animals or property. A permit shall not be issued, and may be revoked
during time periods of high fire danger warnings. The Fire Chief or his or her
designee has authority to impose conditions on any permits granted.
(1976 Code, § 4-5-2) (Ord. 565-10, passed 12-20-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.22 SALE OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   No person shall sell, permit or authorize the sale of permissible
consumer fireworks to a person who is under 16 years of age.
   (B)   No person shall sell, permit or authorize the sale of permissible
consumer fireworks in conflict with state law.
(1976 Code, § 4-5-3) (Ord. 565-10, passed 12-20-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.23 POSTING OF SIGNS BY PERSONS ENGAGED IN THE SALE OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Prior to the sale of permissible consumer fireworks, every person
engaged in such sales shall prominently display signs indicating the following:
      (1)   The use of fireworks, except novelty items as defined by city code,
including permissible consumer fireworks, is prohibited; and
      (2)   Consumer fireworks authorized for sale under state law may not be
sold to persons under the age of 16.
   (B)   Signs required under this section shall be placed at each cash
register and in each area where fireworks are displayed for sale.
   (C)   The Fire Chief or his or her designee shall develop regulations
concerning the size and color of the required signs and shall develop a model
sign. The required sign regulations and model sign shall be posted on the
city’s website and with the Clerk’s Office.
(1976 Code, § 4-5-4) (Ord. 565-10, passed 12-20-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.24 AUTHORITY TO ENFORCE VIOLATIONS OF THIS SUBCHAPTER.
   The City Police Department may issue criminal complaints or summons to
enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
(1976 Code, § 4-5-5) (Ord. 565-10, passed 12-20-2010)
§ 92.25 LIABILITY FOR EMERGENCY RESPONSES RELATED TO USE OF FIREWORKS;
DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   A person who uses, discharges or ignites permissible consumer
fireworks, fireworks or anything that is designed or intended to rise into the
air and explode or to detonate in the air or to fly above the ground, is liable
for the expenses of any emergency response that is required by such use,
discharge or ignition. The fact that a person is convicted or found responsible
for a violation(s) of this subchapter is prima facie evidence of liability
under this section.
   (B)   The expenses of an emergency response are a charge against the person
liable for those expenses pursuant to division (A) above. The charge
constitutes a debt of that person and may be collected proportionately by the
public agencies, for-profit entities or not-for-profit entities that incurred
the expenses. The liability imposed under this section is in addition to and
not in limitation of any other liability that may be imposed.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section:
      (1)   EXPENSES OF AN EMERGENCY RESPONSE means reasonable costs directly
incurred by public agencies, for-profit entities or not-for-profit entities
that make an appropriate emergency response to an incident; and
      (2)   REASONABLE COSTS includes the costs of providing police,
firefighting, rescue and emergency medical services at the scene of an
incident.
(1976 Code, § 4-5-6) (Ord. 565-10, passed 12-20-2010)
§ 92.26 VIOLATIONS.
   Violating any prohibition or requirement imposed by this subchapter is a
Class 3 misdemeanor.
(1976 Code, § 4-5-7) (Ord. 565-10, passed 12-20-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Spiritous liquors prohibited
   
93.03   Exceptions
   
93.04   Permits
   
93.05   Glass containers prohibited
   
93.06   Camping on city property
   
93.07   Park hours
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see
Chapter 90
   Health; Nuisances, see
Chapter 91
   Offenses, see
Chapter 130
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMP. To reside in or use a public place for temporary or permanent living
accommodation purposes including, but not limited to, activities such as
erecting tents or any other structure providing shelter, laying down bedding
for the purposes of sleeping, using camp paraphernalia, storing personal
belongings, starting a fire, regularly cooking or preparing meals, or living,
even temporarily, in a parked vehicle, including a camper vehicle. Such
activities constitute camping when it reasonably appears under the
circumstances that the participants are using the area as a living
accommodation, no matter how temporary.
   CAMP PARAPHERNALIA. Includes, but is not limited to, tarps, cots, beds,
sleeping bags, hammocks, blankets, and similar equipment.
   PARKS-RECREATION AREA. Any open or enclosed tract of land owned by the city,
adopted for, set apart (whether by dedication or otherwise), maintained at
public expense and devoted to the purposes of pleasure, recreation, ornament or
light and air for the general public. By way of illustration, but not limiting,
the definition includes John C. Page Memorial Park, Golliard Park, Children's
Park, Vermillion Park, Page Sports Complex, Amphitheatre, tennis courts, and
the Page Municipal Golf Course.
   SPIRITUOUS LIQUOR. Includes alcohol, brandy, whiskey, rum, tequila, mescal,
gin, wine, porter, ale, beer, any malt liquor, malt beverage, absinthe or
compound or mixture of any of them, or of any of them with any vegetable or
other substance, alcohol bitters, bitters containing alcohol, and any liquid
mixture or preparation, whether patented or otherwise, which produces
intoxication, fruits preserved in ardent spirits, and beverages containing more
than 0.5% of alcohol by volume.
(1976 Code, § 3-9-1) (Ord. 171, passed 11-13-1986; Ord. 723-24, passed 2-14-
2024)
§ 93.02 SPIRITUOUS LIQUORS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall possess or consume spirituous liquors on any city-owned or
operated parks/ recreation area.
(1976 Code, § 3-9-2) (Ord. 171, passed 11-13-1986) Penalty, see §  
93.99
§ 93.03 EXCEPTIONS
   (A)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
93.02, the prohibitions contained herein shall not apply to the city property
known as the City Municipal Golf Course or Glen Canyon Golf and Country Club.
   (B)   Section 93.02 also does not apply when a permit has been issued in
accordance with §
93.04.
(1976 Code, § 3-9-3) (Ord. 171, passed 11-13-1986)
§ 93.04 PERMITS.
   The possession and consumption of a malt beverage by any person shall be
permitted on any parks-recreation area if that person is in attendance at an
activity for which a use permit has been secured from the City Manager or his
or her designee in accordance with the following.
   (A)   Rules and regulations. The City Manager shall promulgate such rules
and regulations as necessary to provide for the issuance, use and revocation of
use permits.
   (B)   Fees. The Council shall establish fees for the issuance of use permits
by resolution.
   (C)   Use permit. A use permit shall be issued upon completion of an
application, payment of fees and verification of the required application
information.
   (D)   Revocation. The Manager or his or her designee shall revoke any such
use permit upon any violation by the permittee of this chapter, the rules and
regulations promulgated hereunder, or any other state statute or city
ordinance.
(1976 Code, § 3-9-4) (Ord. 171, passed 11-13-1986)
§ 93.05 GLASS CONTAINERS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall bring any glass container into any park or recreation area
in the city.
(1976 Code, § 3-9-5) (Ord. 147-85, passed 9-12-1985) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 CAMPING ON CITY PROPERTY.
    No person shall camp in any parks-recreation area, except where
specifically authorized by the city. Camping is also prohibited on city owned
property in the following areas:
   (A)   Within 500 feet of the edge of the pavement of Highway 98;
   (B)   Within 1,000 feet of Antelope Valley Road.
(Ord. 723-24, passed 2-14-2024)
§ 93.07 PARK HOURS.
   Unless otherwise posted or by permit issued by the city, park hours for
public use of all portions of any parks-recreation area, including off-street
parking areas for the parks-recreation area, shall be from sunrise until 10:00
p.m. No person may enter, occupy or use a parks-recreation area, including the
off-street parking area, outside of park hours.
(Ord. 723-24, passed 2-14-2024)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter, shall be deemed guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor and upon conviction
hereof shall be punished by a fine and/or imprisonment consistent with the
penalty for a Class 2 misdemeanor as provided for in A.R.S. Title 13. Each day
that a violation continues shall be a separate offense punishable as herein
above described.
(1976 Code, § 3-9-6) (Ord. 171, passed 11-13-1986; Ord. 723-24, passed 2-14-
2024)
CHAPTER 94: SOLID FUEL-BURNING DEVICES
Section
   
94.01   Air quality, declaration of policy
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Unlawful to sell or burn unseasoned fuel
   
94.04   Regulation of new solid fuel-burning approved devices; required
   
94.05   Limitation on number of solid fuel and non-solid fuel-burning devices
in residential buildings
   
94.06   Elimination of nonconforming solid fuel-burning devices in existing
dwelling units
   
94.07   Limitation on number of solid fuel-burning devices in commercial
construction
   
94.08   Investigation and compliance
   
94.09   Appeals; Building Board of Appeals
   
94.10   Burning of coal prohibited
   
94.11   Permit required for installation of solid fuel-burning device
   
94.12   Fee
   
94.13   Application to install solid fuel-burning device
   
94.14   Unlawful to install, sell or operate
   
94.15   Nuisance; injunction
§ 94.01 AIR QUALITY, DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   (A)   The City Council hereby finds and declares air quality to be an
important part of the health, safety and welfare of the community, and that the
City Council has a duty to protect and improve air quality in and around the
city, not only for the health, safety and general welfare of its citizens, but
also because air pollution resulting from the use of solid fuel-burning devices
reduces the desirability of the community as a resort thus affecting the
aesthetic and economic welfare of the community.
   (B)   The City Council finds and declares present levels of air pollution to
be unacceptable and recognizes the need to achieve the maximum practical degree
of air purity possible by requiring the use of all available practical methods
and techniques to control, prevent and reduce air pollution.
   (C)   It is the intent of the Council to require the installation of or
conversion to approved solid fuel- burning devices, and prohibiting the burning
of coal, all for the improvement of the air quality, aesthetic and economic
environment of the city. It is to this end that this chapter is enacted.
(1976 Code, § 9-5-1) (Ord. 299-94, passed 6-23-1994)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED NON-SOLID FUEL-BURNING DEVICE. Any device that operates with non-
solid fuel (gas or liquid) which the city can verify as to particulate
emissions of less than or equal to four grams per hour with testing, weather
weighing and altitude adjustment and is installed in accordance with applicable
city ordinances, which may include a properly installed firebox, flues and gas
log apparatus.
   APPROVED SOLID FUEL-BURNING DEVICE. A solid fuel-burning device which the
city can verify as to particulate emissions of less than or equal to four grams
per hour with testing, weather weighing and altitude adjustment and is
installed in accordance with applicable city ordinances. The term APPROVED
SOLID FUEL-BURNING DEVICE includes pellet stoves which comply with the emission
standard established herein.
   COAL. A mineral substance consisting of carbonized vegetable matter.
   CHARCOAL. Carbonized material obtained from heating wood or other organic
substances in the absence of air, and which is normally used for outdoor
cooking.
   RATED DEVICE. A device that is certified by the city as meeting the
particulate emission standards of this chapter.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, which requires location on the
ground and is a combination of roof and supporting walls and/or columns.
   WOOD-BURNING DEVICE. Includes any solid fuel-burning device, including, but
not limited to, free-standing fireplaces, air-tight stoves, Franklin stoves,
conventional masonry fireplaces, prefabricated zero clearance fireplaces, any
similar fireplace the operation of which requires it to be built in the
structure as a component of the building, a fireplace insert or another device
intended for use to heat interior habitable space or for aesthetic enjoyment,
providing such device is capable of burning solid fuel such as wood, coal and/
or any other solid fuel.
(1976 Code, § 9-5-2) (Ord. 172, passed 12-11-1986; Ord. 382-98, passed 10-1-
1998)
§ 94.03 UNLAWFUL TO SELL OR BURN UNSEASONED FUEL.
   It is unlawful to sell to a resident or to any person, firm or corporation
of the city any combustible material for use in a solid fuel-burning device
which is not in a dry, seasoned and burnable condition or for a resident or any
person, firm or corporation of the city to burn any combustible material in a
solid fuel-burning device which is not in a dry, seasoned and burnable
condition.
(1976 Code, § 9-5-3) (Ord. 299-94, passed 6-23-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.04 REGULATION OF NEW SOLID FUEL-BURNING APPROVED DEVICES; REQUIRED.
   No solid fuel-burning device shall be installed within any dwelling unit or
commercial building within the city unless such device is an approved solid
fuel-burning device.
(1976 Code, § 9-5-4) (Ord. 299-94, passed 6-23-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.05 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF SOLID FUEL AND NON-SOLID FUEL-BURNING DEVICES
IN RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS.
   (A)   The number of approved solid fuel and non-solid fuel-burning devices
installed in any new residential building, for which a building permit is
issued after the effective date of this chapter, shall not exceed the following
limits:
      (1)   Single-family homes: one approved solid fuel or non-solid fuel-
burning device per dwelling, for the purposes hereof “dwelling” includes the
garage and all accessory buildings;
      (2)   Duplex or two-family homes: one approved solid fuel or non-solid
fuel-burning device per dwelling, for the purposes hereof “dwelling” includes
the garage and all accessory buildings; and
      (3)   Multi-family buildings, including, but not limited to, condominiums
and townhouses - one approved solid fuel or non-solid fuel-burning device per
dwelling; unless the total emissions of all of the approved solid fuel and
liquid fuel-burning devices installed in each dwelling (including its garage
and all accessory buildings) is less than or equal to four grams per hour with
testing, weather weighing and altitude adjustment.
   (B)   In dwelling units existing on the effective date of this chapter,
installation of additional solid fuel-burning devices is prohibited if the
resulting emissions of all of the solid fuel-burning devices including existing
and those to be installed exceeds the limitations contained in this section.
(1976 Code, § 9-5-5) (Ord. 382-98, passed 10-1-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.06 ELIMINATION OF NONCONFORMING SOLID FUEL-BURNING DEVICES IN EXISTING
DWELLING UNITS.
   All nonconforming wood-burning devices, except fireplaces, shall be
converted to approved wood- burning devices; or converted to an approved non-
solid fuel-burning device, prior to any transfer of ownership which occurs
after the effective date of this chapter. Sufficient funds shall be escrowed
prior to the closing by the seller to perform the removal or replacement prior
to the closing of escrow.
(1976 Code, § 9-5-6) (Ord. 299-94, passed 6-23-1994)
§ 94.07 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF SOLID FUEL-BURNING DEVICES IN COMMERCIAL
CONSTRUCTION.
   No more than one approved solid fuel-burning device shall be installed in
any commercial building constructed after the effective date of this chapter.
In commercial buildings in existence on the effective date of this chapter,
which contain one or more solid fuel-burning devices, installation of
additional solid fuel-burning devices is hereby prohibited.
(1976 Code, § 9-5-7) (Ord. 299-94, passed 6-23-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.08 INVESTIGATION AND COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Compliance with the requirements of §
94.07 may be demonstrated by the final inspection report issued by the Building
Department.
   (B)   The city may inspect solid fuel-burning devices to determine whether
the building permit holder is in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter. If a building permit holder or person operating the solid fuel-burning
device refuses to consent to the city’s inspection, the city may, upon a
showing of reasonable grounds and for the purpose of inspecting solid fuel-
burning devices only, apply for an appropriate court order.
   (C)   When the city has reasonable grounds based upon its investigation or
upon written complaints sufficiently demonstrating reasonable grounds that a
person has violated this chapter, the city shall issue a notice and order
setting forth the alleged violations and the corrective action that needs to be
taken. The notice shall be served personally, by certified mail or in any other
manner provided by state law for the service of process and shall allow 30 days
for the person to take necessary actions to comply with this chapter.
(1976 Code, § 9-5-8) (Ord. 299-94, passed 6-23-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.09 APPEALS; BUILDING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   An appeal of the city’s order to comply may be filed with the Building
Board of Appeals in writing no later than 30 days from the date of the city’s
order.
   (B)   Upon a timely filing of a notice of appeal to the Building Board of
Appeals, the Board shall set a hearing date to review the order of the city.
This hearing date shall be on a date not less than five days nor more than 30
days from the date of the notice of appeal. The hearing before the Board shall
be informal. The city shall present information which it believes shows a
violation of this chapter and the appellant shall be given the opportunity to
respond. The Building Board of Appeals shall issue its decision and order
within ten days of the date of the hearing.
   (C)   The Building Board of Appeals may affirm, modify, rescind or delay the
compliance order, if any one or more of the following criteria are met:
      (1)   Owing to exceptional and extraordinary circumstances, literal
enforcement of these regulations will result in extreme hardship. Such
circumstances may include, but are not limited to, structural conditions which
would impose extraordinary costs in order to comply with the provisions of
these regulations;
      (2)   Compliance with the requirements of these regulations would create
a threat to the health and safety of a homeowner or occupant; and/or
      (3)   There is imminent planned termination of operations or replacement
of a noncomplying solid fuel-burning device with an approved device.
   (D)   The order of the Building Board of Appeals shall determine whether the
ordinance was violated and shall state the time for compliance with the order.
(1976 Code, § 9-5-9) (Ord. 299-94, passed 6-23-1994)
§ 94.10 BURNING OF COAL PROHIBITED.
   No coal shall be burned in any solid fuel-burning device after August 1,
1994, unless the solid fuel- burning device is the only heat source as of
February 1, 1994 and such device was designed only for the use of coal as a
fuel source.
(1976 Code, § 9-5-10) (Ord. 299-94, passed 6-23-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.11 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR INSTALLATION OF SOLID FUEL-BURNING DEVICE.
   No person shall install a solid fuel-burning device without first obtaining
a permit from the Building Department for such installation in accordance with
the applicable provisions of the Uniform Building Code and Uniform Mechanical
Code as adopted by the city. A solid fuel-burning device shall not be operated
until after its inspection, upon completion, by a Building Inspector.
(1976 Code, § 9-5-11) (Ord. 299-94, passed 6-23-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.12 FEE.
   The permit fee shall be in accordance with the applicable building and
mechanical codes.
(1976 Code, § 9-5-12) (Ord. 299-94, passed 6-23-1994)
§ 94.13 APPLICATION TO INSTALL SOLID FUEL-BURNING DEVICE.
   Before a permit is issued, the applicant shall be required to submit an
application on such forms as provided by the city.
(1976 Code, § 9-5-13) (Ord. 299-94, passed 6-23-1994)
§ 94.14 UNLAWFUL TO INSTALL, SELL OR OPERATE.
   It is unlawful to sell to a resident of the city or to any person, firm or
corporation for installation within the city, a solid fuel-burning device which
emits more than four grams per hour of particulates.
(1976 Code, § 9-5-14) (Ord. 299-94, passed 6-23-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.15 NUISANCE; INJUNCTION.
   Any violation of this chapter is declared to be a nuisance. In addition to
any other relief provided by this chapter, the City Attorney may apply to a
court of competent jurisdiction for an injunction to prohibit the continuation
of any violation of this chapter. Such application for relief may include
seeking a temporary restraining order, temporary injunction and permanent
injunction.
(1976 Code, § 9-5-15) (Ord. 299-94, passed 6-23-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 95: MARIJUANA REGULATIONS
Section
   
95.01   Purpose
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Marijuana prohibited on public property
   
95.04   Marijuana establishment prohibited
   
95.05   Marijuana testing facility prohibited
   
95.06   Individual's primary residence for personal use
   
95.07   Consumption of marijuana in vehicles prohibited
   
95.08   Retail sales tax from marijuana and marijuana products
   
95.09   Violations
   
95.10   Enforcement; penalties
§ 95.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the
community. Except as allowed by law for personal, private use, the City of Page
prohibits the retail sale, cultivation, and manufacturing of marijuana or
marijuana products in the City of Page. Nothing in this chapter is intended to
promote or condone the sale, cultivation, manufacture, transport, production,
distribution, possession, or use of marijuana or marijuana products in
violation of any applicable law.
(Ord. 678-21, passed 1-13-2021)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The below words and phrases, wherever used in this chapter, shall be
construed as defined in this section unless, clearly from the context, a
different meaning is intended. Words used in the present tense include the
future tense, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words
in the singular number include the plural number.
   CHEMICAL EXTRACTION. The process of removing a particular component of a
mixture from others present, including removing resinous tetrahydrocannabinol
from marijuana.
   CHEMICAL SYNTHESIS. Production of a new particular molecule by adding to,
subtracting from, or changing the structure of a precursor molecule.
   CONSUME, CONSUMING, and CONSUMPTION. The act of ingesting, inhaling or
otherwise introducing marijuana into the human body.
   CONSUMER. An individual who is at least 21 years of age and who purchases
marijuana or marijuana products.
   CULTIVATE and CULTIVATION. To propagate, breed, grow, prepare and package
marijuana.
   DELIVER and DELIVERY. The transportation, transfer or provision of marijuana
or marijuana products to a consumer at a location other than the designated
retail location of a marijuana establishment.
   DEPARTMENT. The State of Arizona Department of Health Services or its
successor agency.
   DUAL LICENSEE. An entity that holds both a nonprofit medical marijuana
dispensary registration and a marijuana establishment license.
   ENCLOSED AREA. A building, greenhouse, or other structure that has:
      (1)   A complete roof enclosure supported by connecting walls that are
constructed of solid material extending from the ground to the roof;
      (2)   Is secure against unauthorized entry;
      (3)   Has a foundation, slab or equivalent base to which the floor is
securely attached; and
      (4)   Meets performance standards ensuring that cultivation and
processing activities cannot be and are not perceptible from the structure in
terms of not being visible from public view without using binoculars, aircraft
or other optical aids and is equipped with a lock or other security device that
prevents access by minors.
   EXTRACTION. The process of extracting or separating resin from marijuana to
produce or process any form of marijuana concentrates using water, lipids,
gases, solvents, or other chemicals or chemical processes.
   MANUFACTURE and MANUFACTURING. To compound, blend, extract, infuse or
otherwise make or prepare a marijuana product.
   MARIJUANA.
      (1)   Means all parts of the plant of the genus cannabis, whether growing
or not, as well as the seeds from the plant, the resin extracted from any part
of the plant, and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or
preparation of the plant or its seeds or resin.
      (2)   Includes cannabis as defined in A.R.S. § 13-3401.
      (3)   Does not include industrial hemp, the fiber produced from the
stalks of the plant of the genus cannabis, oil or cake made from the seeds of
the plant, sterilized seeds of the plant that are incapable of germination, or
the weight of any other ingredient combined with marijuana to prepare topical
or oral administrations, food, drink or other products.
   MARIJUANA CONCENTRATE.
      (1)   Resin extracted from any part of a plant of the genus cannabis and
every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of that
resin or tetrahydrocannabinol.
      (2)   Does not include industrial hemp or the weight of any other
ingredient combined with cannabis to prepare topical or oral administrations,
food, drink or other products.
   MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENT. An entity licensed by the Department to operate all
of the following:
      (1)   A single retail location at which the licensee may sell marijuana
and marijuana products to consumers, cultivate marijuana and manufacture
marijuana products.
      (2)   A single off-site cultivation location at which the licensee may
cultivate marijuana, process marijuana and manufacture marijuana products, but
from which marijuana and marijuana products may not be transferred or sold to
consumers.
      (3)   A single off-site location at which the licensee may manufacture
marijuana products and package and store marijuana and marijuana products, but
from which marijuana and marijuana products may not be transferred or sold to
consumers.
   MARIJUANA PRODUCTS. Marijuana concentrate and products that are composed of
marijuana and other ingredients and that are intended for use or consumption,
including edible products, ointments, and tinctures.
   MARIJUANA TESTING FACILITY. The Department or another entity that is
licensed by the Department to analyze the potency of marijuana and test
marijuana for harmful contaminants.
   NONPROFIT MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY. A nonprofit entity as defined in
A.R.S. § 36-2801(12).
   OPEN SPACE. A public park, public sidewalk, public walkway or public
pedestrian thoroughfare.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation, association, or any other
entity of whatever kind or nature.
   PROCESS and PROCESSING. To harvest, dry, cure, trim or separate parts of the
marijuana plant.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Has the same meaning prescribed in the Smoke-Free-Arizona Act,
A.R.S. § 36-601.01.
   SMOKE. To inhale, exhale, burn, carry or possess any lighted marijuana or
lighted marijuana products, whether natural or synthetic.
(Ord. 678-21, passed 1-13-2021)
§ 95.03 MARIJUANA PROHIBITED ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   The use, consumption, sale, cultivation, manufacture, storage,
production, transfer or distribution of marijuana or marijuana products is
prohibited on property that is occupied, owned, controlled or operated by the
City of Page.
   (B)   It is unlawful for an individual to smoke marijuana in a public place
or open space in the City of Page.
   (C)   It is unlawful for an individual to smoke marijuana or consume
marijuana products in an open space in the city.
   (D)   It is unlawful for an individual to smoke marijuana or consume
marijuana products in a public place in the city.
(Ord. 678-21, passed 1-13-2021)
§ 95.04 MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENT PROHIBITED.
   To the fullest extent allowable by law, the operation of a marijuana
establishment is prohibited in the City of Page except where authorized for a
dual licensee who:
   (A)   Operates both a nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary and marijuana
establishment cooperatively in a shared location; and
   (B)   Has not forfeited or terminated the nonprofit medical marijuana
dispensary registration from the Department.
(Ord. 678-21, passed 1-13-2021)
§ 95.05 MARIJUANA TESTING FACILITY PROHIBITED.
   To the fullest extent allowable by law, the operation of a marijuana testing
facility is prohibited in the City of Page.
(Ord. 678-21, passed 1-13-2021)
§ 95.06 INDIVIDUAL'S PRIMARY RESIDENCE FOR PERSONAL USE.
   To the extent required by law, marijuana possession, consumption,
processing, manufacturing, transportation, and cultivation is permitted in a
residential zoning district in the City of Page and is subject to the following
conditions and limitations:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any individual who is at least 21 years of
age to possess, transport, cultivate or process more than six marijuana plants.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for two or more individuals who are at least 21
years of age to possess, transport, cultivate or process more than 12 marijuana
plants at the individuals' primary residence.
   (C)   Marijuana may only be cultivated, extracted, manufactured, or
processed as an accessory use at the primary residence of the person conducting
such activity or in an accessory structure on the property, and only for such
person's own use, or by a primary caregiver on behalf of a patient.
   (D)   Except as provided by A.R.S. §§ 36-2801 et al. and this section, it
shall be unlawful for an individual to otherwise consume, cultivate, extract,
manufacture, possess, or process marijuana in a residence or accessory
structure within the City of Page limits.
   (E)   Individuals shall not process or manufacture marijuana by means of any
liquid or gas other than alcohol that has a flashpoint below 100 degrees
Fahrenheit.
   (F)   Kitchen, bathrooms, and primary bedroom(s) shall be used for their
intended use and shall not be used primarily for residential marijuana
processing, manufacturing, or cultivation.
   (G)   A residence shall not emit dust, fumes, vapors, or odors into the
environment and individuals shall ensure that ventilation, air filtration,
building and design standards are compatible with adjacent uses and the
requirements of adopted building codes of the City of Page. More specifically,
the indoor area used for cultivation, extraction, manufacturing, or processing
shall include a ventilation and filtration system designed to ensure that odors
from the cultivation, extraction, manufacturing, or processing are not
detectable beyond the property line of a parcel containing a single dwelling
unit, or beyond the boundaries of a single dwelling unit in multi-family
dwellings, cluster houses, condominiums, or similar closely built unit
arrangements, and designed to prevent mold and moisture and otherwise protect
the health and safety of persons residing in the residence or unit. This shall
include, at a minimum, a system meeting the requirements of the current,
adopted edition of the International Residential Code.
   (H)   Cultivation shall be limited to a closet, room, greenhouse, or other
enclosed area on the grounds of the residence equipped with a lock or other
security device that prevents access by minors. Marijuana or marijuana products
shall not be cultivated, extracted, manufactured, or processed outdoors.
   (I)   It is unlawful to use any grow lighting system for the indoor
cultivation of marijuana other than light-emitting diodes (LEDs), compact
fluorescent lamps (CFLs) or fluorescent lighting. All high-intensity discharge
(HID) lighting, including, but not limited to, mercury-vapor lamps, metal-
halide (MH) lamps, ceramic MH lamps, sodium-vapor lamps, high-pressure sodium
(HPS) lamps and xenon short-arc lamps, are prohibited.
   (J)   Cultivation shall take place in an area where the marijuana plants are
not visible from public view without using binoculars, aircraft, or other
optical aids.
(Ord. 678-21, passed 1-13-2021)
§ 95.07 CONSUMPTION OF MARIJUANA IN VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful to consume marijuana or marijuana products while driving,
operating or riding in the passenger seat or compartment of an operating motor
vehicle, boat, vessel, aircraft or other vehicle.
(Ord. 678-21, passed 1-13-2021)
§ 95.08 RETAIL SALES TAX FROM MARIJUANA AND MARIJUANA PRODUCTS.
   If the sale of marijuana and marijuana products is required or allowed by
law, any such sales from a marijuana establishment is tangible personal
property as defined in A.R.S. § 42-5001 and subject to the transaction
privilege tax in the retail classification and use tax.
(Ord. 678-21, passed 1-13-2021)
§ 95.09 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It is a violation of this chapter for a person to consume, cultivate,
extract, manufacture, or process marijuana or marijuana products if the person
fails to meet all the requirements in this chapter or state law, including the
Department's rules.
   (B)   Each day any violation of any provision of this chapter shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 678-21, passed 1-13-2021)
§ 95.10 ENFORCEMENT; PENALTIES.
   (A)   Violations of this chapter are in addition to any other violation
enumerated within the Page City Code of Ordinances and in no way limits the
penalties, actions or abatement procedures which may be taken by the City of
Page for any violation of this chapter, which is also a violation of any other
ordinance or code provision of the City of Page or federal or state law.
Conviction and punishment of judgment and civil sanction against any person
under this chapter shall not relieve such person from the responsibility of
correcting prohibited conditions, or removing prohibited structures or
improvements, and shall not prevent the enforced correction or removal thereof.
   (B)   The remedies provided in this chapter shall be cumulative and in
addition to any other federal, state, or local remedy which may be available.
Nothing contained herein shall be construed to preclude prosecution under any
other applicable statute, ordinance, rule, order, or regulation.
   (C)   Penalty. Violations of any provision of this chapter shall be as set
forth in A.R.S. §§ 36-2851 et al., or if not specified therein, as civil code
offenses with a civil penalty up to $1,000 per violation.
(Ord. 678-21, passed 1-13-2021)
CHAPTER 96: SMOKING AND ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE REGULATIONS
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Smoking prohibitions; exceptions
   
96.03   Declaration by establishment
   
96.04   Signage
   
96.05   No retaliation
   
96.06   Violations and penalties
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The below words and phrases, wherever used in this chapter, shall be
construed as defined in this section unless, clearly from the context, a
different meaning is intended. Words used in the present tense include the
future tense, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words
in the singular number include the plural number.
   ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE. Any product containing or delivering nicotine or any
other similar substance intended for human consumption that can be used by a
person to simulate smoking through inhalation of vapor or aerosol from the
product. The term includes any such device, whether manufactured, distributed,
marketed, or sold as an e-cigarette, e-cigar, e-pipe, e-hookah, or vape pen, or
under any other product name or descriptor.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who performs any service on a full-time, part-time or
contracted basis whether or not the person is denominated an employee,
independent contractor or otherwise and whether or not the person is
compensated or is a volunteer.
   EMPLOYER. A person, business, partnership, association, the State of Arizona
and its political subdivisions, corporations, including a municipal
corporations, trust, or non-profit entity that employs the services ofone or
more individual persons.
   ENCLOSED AREA. All space between a floor and ceiling that is enclosed on all
sides by permanent or temporary walls or windows (exclusive of doorways), which
extend from the floor to the ceiling. Enclosed area includes a reasonable
distance from any entrances, windows and ventilation systems so that persons
entering or leaving the building or facility shall not be subjected to
breathing tobacco smoke and so that tobacco smoke does not enter the building
or facility through entrances, windows, ventilation systems or any other means.
   HEALTH CARE FACILITY. An office or institution providing care or treatment
of diseases, whether physical, mental, or emotional, or other medical,
physiological, or psychological conditions, including but not limited to,
hospitals, rehabilitation hospitals or other clinics, including weight control
clinics, nursing homes, homes for the aging or chronically ill, laboratories,
and offices of surgeons, chiropractors, physical therapists, physicians,
dentists, and all specialists within these professions. This definition shall
include all waiting rooms, hallways, private rooms, semiprivate rooms, and
wards within health care facilities.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation, limited liability company,
entity, association, governmental subdivision or unit of a governmental
subdivision, or a public or private organization of any character.
   PHYSICALLY SEPARATED. All space between a floor and ceiling which is
enclosed on all sides by solid walls or windows (exclusive of door or
passageway) and independently ventilated from smoke-free areas, so that air
within permitted smoking areas does not drift or get vented into smoke-free
areas.
   PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT. An enclosed area under the control of a public or
private employer that employees normally frequent during the course of
employment, including office buildings, work areas, auditoriums, employee
lounges, restrooms, conference rooms, meeting rooms, classrooms, cafeterias,
hallways, stairs, elevators, health care facilities, private offices and
vehicles owned and operated by the employer during working hours when the
vehicle is occupied by more than one person. A private residence is not a PLACE
OF EMPLOYMENT unless it is used as a child care, adult day care, or health care
facility.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any enclosed area to which the public is invited or in which
the public is permitted, including airports, banks, bars, common areas of
apartment buildings, condominiums or other multifamily housing facilities,
educational facilities, entertainment facilities or venues, health care
facilities, hotel and motel common areas, laundromats, public transportation
facilities, reception areas, restaurants, retail food production and marketing
establishments, retail service establishments, retail stores, shopping malls,
sports facilities, theaters, and waiting rooms. A private residence is not a
PUBLIC PLACE unless it is used as a child care, adult day care, or health care
facility.
   RETAIL TOBACCO STORE. A retail store that derives the majority of its sales
from tobacco or electronic cigarette/vape products and accessories.
   SMOKING. The use of an electronic cigarette.
   SMOKING or TO SMOKE. Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted
cigar, cigarette, pipe, weed, plant, or other combustible substance in any
manner or in any form.
   SPORTS FACILITIES. Enclosed areas of sports pavilions, stadiums, gymnasiums,
health spas, boxing arenas, swimming pools, roller and ice rinks, billiard
halls, bowling alleys, and other similar places where members of the general
public assemble to engage in physical exercise, participate in athletic
competition, or witness sporting events.
   VETERAN AND FRATERNAL CLUBS. A club as defined in A.R.S. § 4-101(7)(a)(b) or
(c).
(Ord. 700-22, passed 11-16-2022)
§ 96.02 SMOKING PROHIBITIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   Smoking is prohibited in all public places and places of employment within
the city, except the following:
   (A)   Private residences, except when used as a licensed child care, adult
day care, or health care facility.
   (B)   Hotel and motel rooms that are rented to guests and are designated as
smoking rooms; provided, however, that not more than 50% of rooms rented to
guests in a hotel or motel are so designated.
   (C)   Retail tobacco stores that are physically separated so that smoke from
retail tobacco stores does not infiltrate into areas where smoking is
prohibited under the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Veterans and fraternal clubs when they are not open to the general
public.
   (E)   Smoking when associated with a religious ceremony practiced pursuant
to the American Indian Religious Freedom Act of 1978.
   (F)   Outdoor patios so long as tobacco smoke does not enter areas where
smoking is prohibited through entrances, windows, ventilation systems, or other
means.
   (G)   A theatrical performance upon a stage or in the course of a film or
television production if the smoking is part of the performance or production.
(Ord. 700-22, passed 11-16-2022)
§ 96.03 DECLARATION BY ESTABLISHMENT.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, an owner, operator,
manager, or other person or entity in control of an establishment, facility, or
outdoor area may declare that entire establishment, facility, or outdoor area
as a nonsmoking place.
(Ord. 700-22, passed 11-16-2022)
§ 96.04 SIGNAGE.
   (A)   "No smoking" signs or the international "no smoking" symbol
(consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a
red circle with a red bar across it) shall be clearly and conspicuously posted
by the owner, operator, manager, or other person in control of that place
identifying where smoking is prohibited by this chapter and where complaints
regarding violations may be registered.
   (B)   Every public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited
by this chapter shall have posted at every entrance a conspicuous sign clearly
stating that smoking is prohibited.
   (C)   All ashtrays shall be removed from any area where smoking is
prohibited by this chapter by the owner, operator, manager, or other person
having control of the area.
(Ord. 700-22, passed 11-16-2022)
§ 96.05 NO RETALIATION.
   No employer may discharge or retaliate against an employee because that
employee exercises any rights afforded by this chapter or reports or attempts
to prosecute a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 700-22, passed 11-16-2022)
§ 96.06 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   A person who smokes or uses electronic cigarettes in an area where
smoking and electronic cigarettes are prohibited by the provisions of this
chapter shall be subject to a citation for a civil offense, punishable by a
fine not exceeding $300.
   (B)   A person who owns, manages, operates or otherwise controls a public
place or place of employment and who fails to comply with the provisions of
this chapter shall be subject to a citation for a civil offense, punishable by
a fine not exceeding $500.
   (C)   Each day on which a violation of this chapter occurs shall be
considered a separate and distinct violation.
   (D)   The remedies provided in this chapter shall be cumulative and in
addition to any other federal, state, or local remedy, which may be available.
Nothing contained herein shall be construed to preclude prosecution under any
other applicable statute, ordinance, rule, order, or regulation.
(Ord. 700-22, passed 11-16-2022)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   BUSINESS REGISTRATION AND REGULATION
      
112.   SOLICITORS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Model Sales Tax Code
§ 110.01 MODEL SALES TAX CODE.
   “The City Tax Code of the City of Page” was adopted by Council through Ord.
186 and made a public record by Res. 417 on June 25, 1987. Copies of the Model
Sales Tax Code can be found in the City Clerk’s office.
(1976 Code, § 8-2)
CHAPTER 111: BUSINESS REGISTRATION AND REGULATION
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Registration of business
   
111.03   Business registration fee
   
111.04   Renewal
   
111.05   Transfer of business registration
   
111.06   Denial of business registration; revocation
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENGAGING IN BUSINESS. Operating, conducting, engaging in, carrying on or
pursuing any business, profession, occupation, trade, service or pursuit for
the purpose of profit. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to
schools, churches, athletic groups and non-profit organizations, e.g., Boy and
Girl Scout programs and Big Brothers/Sisters.
   PERSON. Any individual, male or female, corporation, firm, company,
partnership, joint venture, enterprise, association or other entity engaging in
a business, profession, occupation or trade.
   PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any location where the business is conducted within the
city boundaries.
   SOLICITOR. A person who goes from door to door of single-family dwellings,
multi-family dwellings and/or businesses, or who is on the streets and parking
lots of the city, for the purpose of selling goods, wares, merchandise or
services, or to accept subscriptions or orders thereof, or to accept or request
donations for any charitable purpose. SOLICITORS and SOLICITATION shall be
regulated by
Chapter 112.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-1) (Ord. 531-08, passed 4-22-2008)
§ 111.02 REGISTRATION OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   All persons proposing to engage in business within the city boundaries
shall register and pay a business registration fee prior to engaging in
business.
   (B)   Individuals shall provide name, business name or doing business as
(DBA), local and permanent address, telephone number, contact person and North
American Industry Classification System (NAICS) codes, Transaction Privilege
Tax (TPT) license number and Employer Identification Number (EIN) number, if
applicable.
   (C)   Corporations or other legal entities shall provide business name or
DBA address, telephone number, name of an owner, officer, director or
registered agent, and NAICS codes, TPT license number and EIN number, if
applicable.
   (D)   Registration and fees shall be submitted to the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-2) (Ord. 531-08, passed 4-22-2008)
§ 111.03 BUSINESS REGISTRATION FEE.
   The business registration fee shall be as set by resolution of the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-3) (Ord. 531-08, passed 4-22-2008; Ord. 686-21, passed 10-
13-2021)
§ 111.04 RENEWAL.
   Every person engaging in business shall annually confirm with the City Clerk
that the registration information on file is current and pay any fees as
established by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-4) (Ord. 531-08, passed 4-22-2008; Ord. 686-21, passed 10-
13-2021)
§ 111.05 TRANSFER OF BUSINESS REGISTRATION.
   A business registration may not be transferred or assigned to any person,
employee, successor or agent of the named registrant.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-5) (Ord. 531-08, passed 4-22-2008)
§ 111.06 DENIAL OF BUSINESS REGISTRATION; REVOCATION.
   Business registrations may be summarily denied or revoked by the City
Manager if necessary to protect the health, welfare and safety of the public.
The determination may be predicated upon misrepresentation or false statement
contained in the application, misrepresentation or false statement made to a
government agency, breach of the peace, conviction of a felony or crime of
moral turpitude, refusal to pay the registration fee, or conduct in violation
of federal, state or local laws and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-6) (Ord. 531-08, passed 4-22-2008)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person served with a civil citation for violating the provisions of this
chapter shall pay civil sanction in the amount of $250.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-7) (Ord. 531-08, passed 4-22-2008)
CHAPTER 112: SOLICITORS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   License issuance
   
112.04   License fee
   
112.05   Denial of license; revocation
   
112.06   Prohibited acts
   
112.07   Exceptions
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any individual, male or female, corporation, firm, company,
partnership, joint venture, enterprise, association or other entity engaging in
a business, profession, occupation, solicitation or trade.
   SOLICITOR. A person who goes from door to door of single-family dwellings,
multi-family dwellings and/or businesses, or who is on the streets and parking
lots of the city, for the purpose of selling goods, wares, merchandise or
services, or to accept subscriptions or orders thereof, or to accept or request
donations for any charitable purpose.
(1976 Code, § 8-1-1) (Ord. 536-08, passed 4-22-2008)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Solicitors shall, before contacting persons located at residential or
business premises or upon the streets and parking lots of the city, make
application with the City Clerk and furnish:
   (A)   Name, business name or doing business as (DBA), local and permanent
address, vehicle registration number, driver’s license number, physical
description and North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) codes,
transaction privilege tax (TPT) license number and employer identification
number (EIN), if applicable;
   (B)   Name, address and telephone number of a person, officer, director or
registered agent of the organization, group, association, partnership or
corporation who is the employer of or entity represented by the applicant, and
NAICS codes, TPT license numbers and EIN number, if applicable;
   (C)   Nature of the goods, wares, merchandise or services offered for sale
or the purpose for which solicitations will be made;
   (D)   A photo copy of the applicant’s driver’s license, passport photo or a
one-inch by two-inch photograph of the applicant, to remain on file with the
city; and
   (E)   Completion of a statement as to whether the applicant has been
convicted of any crime, misdemeanor, or violation of any municipal ordinance in
the preceding five years, the nature of the offense, and the punishment or
penalty assessed therefor.
(1976 Code, § 8-1-2) (Ord. 536-08, passed 4-22-2008)
§ 112.03 LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the application, the original shall be referred to the
Chief of Police, who shall, within 15 days, investigate the applicant’s
criminal history to determine if the person poses a risk to the health, welfare
and safety of the public. If the applicant does not appear to pose a risk to
the public, the Chief of Police shall approve the application and return same
to the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall collect the prescribed fee and deliver
the license to the applicant.
   (B)   A license issued under this chapter shall be issued for the calendar
year. Solicitors shall possess the license at all times and shall display same
to any person who requests to examine the license.
(1976 Code, § 8-1-3) (Ord. 536-08, passed 4-22-2008)
§ 112.04 LICENSE FEE.
   A fee of $50, to cover the cost of the investigation and processing, shall
be paid to the City Clerk when the application is filed. The fee is non-
refundable and may not be prorated for solicitations conducted for a portion of
the year. The license fee may be adjusted from time to time by resolution of
the Mayor and City Council.
(1976 Code, § 8-1-4) (Ord. 536-08, passed 4-22-2008)
§ 112.05 DENIAL OF LICENSE; REVOCATION.
   (A)   If the Chief of Police determines an applicant poses a risk to the
health, safety and welfare of the public, the City Clerk and City Manager shall
be notified of the determination and, upon the concurrence of the City Manager,
the application shall be denied.
   (B)   Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter may be summarily
revoked by the City Manager after a determination that revocation is necessary
to protect the health, welfare and safety of the public. The determination may
be predicated upon misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application, misrepresentation or false statement made by the solicitor in the
course of conducting business, breach of the peace, subsequent conviction of a
crime, or conduct in violation of federal, state and local laws and
regulations.
(1976 Code, § 8-1-5) (Ord. 536-08, passed 4-22-2008)
§ 112.06 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It is unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Solicit under false pretense;
   (B)   Remain at any residential or business premises after having been
requested to leave by the owner or occupant;
   (C)   Solicit when the owner or occupant has displayed a “No Soliciting” or
similar sign on the premises;
   (D)   Solicit without a license;
   (E)   Use or possess an altered, forged or fictitious solicitor’s license;
or
   (F)   Obstruct the flow of commerce, traffic or pedestrian movement.
(1976 Code, § 8-1-6) (Ord. 536-08, passed 4-22-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.07 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to schools, churches,
athletic groups and non-profit organizations, e.g., Boy and Girl Scout programs
and Big Brothers/Sisters.
(1976 Code, § 8-1-7) (Ord. 536-08, passed 4-22-2008)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES
      
131.   GRAFFITI
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Dangerous constructions
   
130.02   Damage to property
   
130.03   Deposits of injurious material on thoroughfares
   
130.04   Excavations to be covered
   
130.05   Explosives
   
130.06   False or misleading reports to police
   
130.07   Furnishing weapons and other articles to prisoners
   
130.08   Littering
   
130.09   Minors
   
130.10   Noise
   
130.11   Obstruction of streets
   
130.12   Obstruction of view
   
130.13   Offensive business
   
130.14   Offensive premises
   
130.15   Prostitution
   
130.16   Searchlights
   
130.17   Signs and banners
   
130.18   Spitting
   
130.19   Water flow upon streets
   
130.20   Weapons
   
130.21   General offense
   
130.22   Public consumption or display of medical marijuana
   
130.23   Body piercing; misrepresentation of age
   
130.24   Aggressive solicitation
   
130.25   Prohibition of shared mobility vehicles
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DANGEROUS CONSTRUCTIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to maintain or allow any signs, billboards,
awnings and other similar structures over or on streets, sidewalks, public
grounds or places frequented by the public, so situated or constructed as to
endanger the public safety.
(1976 Code, § 10-1-2) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 DAMAGE TO PROPERTY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to damage in any manner or attempt to
damage or tamper with any pipe lines, water hydrants, street lamps or lights,
or the fixtures and appliances thereunto belonging upon any of the poles or
other objects for use in connection with the lighting of the streets of the
city or any water pipes, hydrants or any appliances pertaining to the water or
sewer works, or any other property of any and every character belonging to the
city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to deface, walk, ride or drive upon or
over any sidewalk or street crossing composed of or containing cement, during
the construction thereof, or before the same is opened to public use.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to damage in any manner any road, street
or bridge in the city limits by using the same, by heavy vehicles, malicious
destruction or by any act that will result in damage to any such road, street
or bridge.
   (D)   It is unlawful to break or destroy any window, door or part of any
building owned or occupied by another or to break or sever from any premises
owned or occupied by another any gate, fence, railing, tree, brush or vine or
any property whatsoever, or to deface, mutilate or injure the same.
(1976 Code, § 10-1-3) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 DEPOSITS OF INJURIOUS MATERIAL ON THOROUGHFARES.
   It is unlawful for any person, either willfully and maliciously or
carelessly and negligently to drop, throw, place or scatter upon any street,
alley, sidewalk or public place in the city any nails, tacks, broken glass,
glass bottles or any instrument or thing whatsoever of such nature as to be
capable of injuring persons or property.
(1976 Code, § 10-1-4) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 EXCAVATIONS TO BE COVERED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to make any excavation or dig any hole,
drain or ditch in any highway or thoroughfare in the city without providing a
sufficient light at night and a temporary fence or suitable obstruction around
such excavation during the day.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to maintain a well, cellar, pit or other
excavation of more than two feet in depth on any unenclosed lot without
providing substantial curbing, covering or protection of such excavation.
(1976 Code, § 10-1-5) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 EXPLOSIVES.
   It is unlawful for any person within the limits of the city to blast or use
powder, fireworks or other explosives without a permit in writing from the
office of the City Manager.
(1976 Code, § 10-1-6) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 FALSE OR MISLEADING REPORTS TO POLICE.
   It is unlawful for any person willfully to make to the Police Department of
the city any false, fraudulent, misleading or unfounded report or statement, or
willfully to misrepresent any fact for the purpose of interfering with the
operation of the Police Department or with the intention of misleading any
police officer.
(1976 Code, § 10-1-7) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 FURNISHING WEAPONS AND OTHER ARTICLES TO PRISONERS.
   It is unlawful for any person to furnish or attempt to furnish or take into
jail or to deliver or attempt to deliver to any prisoner therein confined, or
in the custody of any officer, any weapon, tool, intoxicating liquors, drug or
other article without the consent of the officer in charge.
(1976 Code, § 10-1-9) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08 LITTERING.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit any litter in or upon any
street, alley, public grounds, school grounds or church grounds.
(1976 Code, § 10-1-10) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.09 MINORS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person 13 to 17 years of age to idle or loiter
upon the streets or public places between the hours of midnight and 5:00 a.m.
unless such person is accompanied by a parent, guardian or some person of legal
age having custody of such person. It is unlawful for any parent, guardian or
other adult person having the care and custody of such person to encourage or
allow such person to idle or loiter upon the streets or public places between
the hours of midnight and 5:00 a.m. unless accompanied by such parent or
guardian. The provisions of this section shall not apply when the person is
upon an emergency errand or legitimate business directed by his or her parent,
guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of the person.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person 12 years old or under to idle or loiter
upon the streets or public places between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m.
unless such person is accompanied by a parent, guardian or some person of legal
age having custody of such person. It is unlawful for any parent, guardian or
other adult person having the care and custody of such person to encourage or
allow such person to idle or loiter upon the streets or public places between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. unless accompanied by such parent or
guardian. The provisions of this section shall not apply when the person is
upon an emergency errand or legitimate business directed by his or her parent,
guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of the person.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a minor who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
(1976 Code, § 10-1-11) (Ord. 262-91, passed 10-10-1991) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.10 NOISE.
   (A)   Introduction. Certain noise levels must be tolerated by all citizens
in order for the normal functions of city life to continue; however, excessive
noise is detrimental to the physical, mental and social well being of the
citizens of the city as well as to their comfort, living conditions, general
welfare and safety. Thus, any loud, unnecessary, or unusual noise that is
excessive, disruptive and/or annoying is subject to regulation as provided
herein.
   (B)   Prohibited noises, standard. The creating, permitting or allowing of
any unreasonably loud and disturbing noise originating from sources within the
city is hereby prohibited. An UNREASONABLY LOUD AND DISTURBING NOISE is hereby
defined as noise of such character, intensity or duration as to be detrimental
to the life or health or well-being of any individual, or as to disturb the
public peace and quiet of a neighborhood, family or person. No person shall
cause, suffer, allow or permit sound from any source which, when measured from
the real property boundary of the source of the sound, is in excess of the
following standards. As used herein, A-WEIGHTED SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL means the
sound pressure level in decibels as measured on a sound level meter using the
A-weighting network, as defined in American National Standards Institute
(“ANSI”) S1.4-1983 (R 2006). The level so read is designated dB(A). Impulsive
sound, which repeats four or more times in any hour, shall be measured as
continuous sound.
      (1)   Residential use.
         (a)   When the offending sound emanates from a residential use between
the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., sound which has an A-weighted sound
pressure level of 70 dB(A), or impulsive sound which has an A-weighted sound
pressure level of 80 dB(A).
         (b)   When the offending sound emanates from a residential use between
the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., sound which as an A-weighted sound
pressure level of 60 dB(A), or impulsive sound which has an A-weighted sound
pressure level of 70 dB(A).
      (2)   Commercial use.
         (a)   When the offending sound emanates from a commercial use between
the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., continuous or impulsive sound which has
an A-weighted sound pressure level of 80 dB(A).
         (b)   When the offending sound emanates from a commercial use between
the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., sound which as an A-weighted sound
pressure level of 65 dB(A), or impulsive sound which has an A-weighted sound
pressure level of 75 dB(A).
      (3)   Industrial use. When the offending sound emanates from an
industrial use, continuous or impulsive sound which has an A-weighted sound
pressure level of 85 dB(A).
   (C)   Other prohibited noises. In addition to, and consistent with the
provisions of this section, it shall be unlawful for any person within the city
limits to make, produce, cause, suffer, continue or allow to be produced or
continued by human voice, machine, animal or device, or any combination of
same, any unreasonably loud and disturbing noise which disturbs the peace and
quiet of any neighborhood, or which causes discomfort or annoyance to any
reasonable person of normal sensitivity residing in the area, or which
otherwise injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety or
welfare of others; the standards which shall be considered in determining
whether a violation of this section exists shall include the following:
      (1)   The volume of the noise;
      (2)   Whether the nature of the noise is usual or unusual;
      (3)   Whether the origin of the noise is natural or unnatural;
      (4)   The proximity of the noise to residential sleeping facilities,
which includes hotels;
      (5)   The time of day the noise occurs;
      (6)   The volume of background noise, if any; and
      (7)   The duration of the noise.
   (D)   Specific acts prohibited. The following acts are declared to be
unreasonably loud, unusual or unnecessary noises in violation of this section,
even if the noises referred to do not violate the noise level standards set
forth herein and are prohibited:
      (1)   The playing of any loudspeakers or other devices for reproduction
or amplification of sound, from a public street, public property or public
right-of-way, unless such person has first applied to and received permission
from the Chief of Police to operate such equipment;
      (2)   Operating or permitting the operation of any radio, stereo, player
or other sound device either in or on a vehicle or a self-contained non-
vehicular device in such a manner that the sound is plainly audible at a
distance of 50 feet between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. or at a
distance of 25 feet between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
      (3)   Owning, possessing, harboring or permitting any animal or bird
which frequently or for continuous duration howls, barks, meows, squawks or
makes other sounds.
         (a)   Prima facie evidence of a violation of this division (D) shall
include, but not be limited to:
            1.   Vocalizing (howling, yelping, barking, squawking and the like)
for five minutes without interruption, defined as an average of four or more
vocalizations per minute in that period; or
            2.   Vocalizing for 20 minutes intermittently, defined as an
average of two vocal- izations or more per minute in that period.
         (b)   It is an affirmative defense under this division (D) that the
dog or other animal was intentionally provoked to bark or make any other noise.
      (4)   Operating a motor vehicle in such a manner as to cause the tire or
tires to squeal or screech;
      (5)   Operating a motor vehicle that is not at all times equipped with a
muffler upon the exhaust thereof in good working order and in constant
operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise. It is unlawful for any person
operating any motor vehicle to use a cut-out, by-pass or similar muffler
elimination appliance;
      (6)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle so out of
repair or loaded in such a manner as to create loud or unnecessary grating,
grinding, rattling or other noise;
      (7)   Outdoor noise occurring during the course of construction at a
temporary construction site which is generated by blasting, excavation,
generators or heavy equipment (including, but not limited to, backhoes,
tractors, concrete trucks, dump trucks, jackhammers and air compressors) shall
only be allowed between the hours of 6:00 a.m. through 8:00 p.m. Monday through
Saturday, unless expanded hours of operation are specifically allowed by permit
from the city, and in that event under such terms, conditions and limitations
as set forth in the permit; and
      (8)   Yelling, shouting, whistling or singing on the public streets, or
at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of
any person in any hospital, dwelling, hotel or other type of residence, or of
any person in the vicinity.
   (E)   Exceptions. None of the terms or prohibitions as set forth in this
section shall apply to or be enforced against:
      (1)   Any governmental vehicle or activity while engaged in necessary
public business;
      (2)   Excavations or repairs of water or sewer lines, utilities or
streets by or on behalf of a governmental entity or utility company when the
public welfare and convenience renders it impracticable to perform such work
during the day;
      (3)   Any private vehicle or activity while engaged in necessary public
business at the request of a governmental entity, provided, however, that said
private vehicle or activity shall not be exempt from the provisions of division
(D)(7) above;
      (4)   Any special events, concerts, parades, sporting events and similar
activities which are taking place on public property with the permission or
consent of that public entity;
      (5)   Use of domestic power equipment (including, but not limited to,
power lawn mowers, leaf blowers, trimmers, tillers, saws, sanders, drills or
similar devices) between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.;
      (6)   Attendant on-site noise connected with the actual performance of
organized sporting events on school campuses and in publicly-owned parks or
facilities;
      (7)   Human sounds emanating from children 12 years of age or under,
including, but not limited to, speech and utterances of laughter, cries and
sounds associated with play;
      (8)   Security alarms on structures or motor vehicles, except that such
alarms must terminate operation within five minutes after activation for
continuous airborne sound and within 15 minutes for impulsive sound unless
otherwise provided in this code;
      (9)   Sound production devices required or sanctioned under the Americans
with Disabilities Act (ADA), FEMA or other government agencies to the extent
that they comply with the noise requirement of the enabling legislation or
regulation;
      (10)   Any aircraft operated in conformity with, or pursuant to, federal
law, federal air regulations or air traffic control instructions issued
pursuant to or within duly adopted federal air regulations, together with any
noise created by aircraft operated under, or pursuant to, declaration of an
emergency under federal air regulations; or
      (11)   Any activities or actions that otherwise would violate this
section may be conducted at different times and at higher noise levels than
otherwise permitted, if upon written application, a permit is obtained
beforehand from the city. The permit shall be kept on the site and shown to
city officials or the city law enforcement agent on request and the City
Manager or Council may prescribe in the permit such allowable conditions,
times, restrictions and permissible noise emissions as he or she deems to be
required in the public interest.
   (F)   Violations. Any person who violates any provision of this section
shall, upon his or her first conviction (whether by admission, payment of the
fine, by default or by judgment after hearing), be considered guilty of a petty
offense. A person who commits a violation of this section after previously
having been found responsible of a violation of this chapter within a 24-month
period, shall be deemed a habitual offender and be guilty of a Class 2
misdemeanor, all punishable as set forth in this code and state law. For
purposes of calculating the 24-month period under this section, the dates of
the commission of the offenses are the determining factor.
      (1)   The remedies herein are cumulative, and the city may proceed under
one or more such remedies.
      (2)   Each violation of this section shall be considered a separate
offense, and any violation continuing more than one-half hour or recurring
within one half hour shall be considered a separate offense for each half hour
of violation.
      (3)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed as requiring
any warning to any person before the enforcement of the provisions of this
section.
      (4)   A violation of this section is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance. In the event of a continuing violation of this section, the City
Attorney is hereby authorized to pursue a request for injunctive relief in a
court of competent jurisdiction. In the event that an injunction is issued
pursuant to this subsection, the court may also award reasonable attorney fees
in favor of the city.
(1976 Code, § 10-1-12) (Ord. 614-14, passed 7-9-2014)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.11 OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to obstruct any public street, alley,
sidewalk or park or other public grounds within the city by committing any act
of, or doing anything which is injurious to the health or indecent or offensive
to the senses, or to do in or upon any such streets, alleys, sidewalks, parks
or other public grounds, any act or thing which is an obstruction or
interference to the free use of property or with any business lawfully
conducted by anyone, in or upon, or facing or fronting on any of such streets,
alleys, sidewalks, parks or other public grounds in the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to place or construct any ramp in, on or
across a city gutter or street except in conformity with a curb ramp policy
that shall be maintained by the City Public Works Department. Said policy shall
be on file with the City Public Works Department for public use and inspection.
(1976 Code, § 10-1-13) (Ord. 560-10, passed 6-10-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.12 OBSTRUCTION OF VIEW.
   It is unlawful for any person to maintain or allow any tree, hedge,
billboard or other obstructions which prevent persons driving vehicles on
public streets, alleys or highways from obtaining a clear view of traffic when
approaching an intersection or pedestrian crosswalk.
(1976 Code, § 10-1-14)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.13 OFFENSIVE BUSINESS.
   It is unlawful for any person to establish or maintain any slaughterhouse or
make a practice of slaughtering cattle, hogs, sheep or any other kind of
animal, or establish or maintain any soap factory, render tallow, or pursue,
maintain or carry on any other business or occupation offensive to the senses
or prejudicial to the public health within the limits of the city.
(1976 Code, § 10-1-15) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.14 OFFENSIVE PREMISES.
   It is unlawful for any person to suffer or permit any premises belonging to
or occupied by him or her, or any cellar, privy, vault, pool, sewer or private
drain therein to become nauseous, foul or offensive to the senses or
prejudicial to the public health or comfort.
(1976 Code, § 10-1-16) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.15 PROSTITUTION.
   It is unlawful for any person to practice prostitution or to solicit any
person to visit or patronize a prostitute or place of prostitution.
(1976 Code, § 10-1-17) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.16 SEARCHLIGHTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to operate within the city any
incandescent or arc type searchlight, beacon light or similar lighting device
designed to and capable of projecting a beam of light into the sky for a
distance in excess of one-half mile unless permission is obtained from the
Council.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to emergency
searchlights or beacons operated pursuant to public authority.
(1976 Code, § 10-1-18) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.17 SIGNS AND BANNERS.
   It is unlawful for any person to place any banner or sign upon any street
light pole, traffic signal pole or utility pole within the city without first
obtaining authorization from the Council.
(1976 Code, § 10-1-19) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.18 SPITTING.
   It is unlawful for any person to spit upon any of the public sidewalks or
crosswalks in the city or upon any public path, by-way or highway or in or on
any public ground or park in the city, or upon the floor, exterior or interior
of any public building in the city.
(1976 Code, § 10-1-20) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.19 WATER FLOW UPON STREETS.
   It is unlawful for any person to willfully or negligently permit or cause
the escape or flow of water in such quantity as to cause flooding, or to impede
vehicular or pedestrian traffic, to create a hazardous condition to such
traffic, or to cause damage to the public streets of the city.
(1976 Code, § 10-1-21) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.20 WEAPONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person within the limits of the city to fire or
discharge any BB gun, air gun, pellet gun, dart gun, slingshot, gas operated
gun or other similar instrument.
   (B)   The prohibitions of division (A) above shall not apply to the use of
any such gun or instrument by:
      (1)   A law enforcement officer or other duly authorized public official
or employee in the performance of any official duty;
      (2)   Any person to whom a license, permit or authority is issued by the
Chief of Police of the city for the use of such gun or instrument for a valid
and proper purpose and for use in a manner not likely to harm any person,
animal or property;
      (3)   Any person when used only for the necessary protection of property,
habitation or person in a manner authorized by the laws of the state under or
within rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the state or the United States
of America; or
      (4)   Any person on a rifle, pistol or shotgun range constructed and
maintained in accordance with such rules and regulations as the Council may
designate.
(1976 Code, § 10-1-22) (Ord. 633-17, passed 3-22-2017) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.21 GENERAL OFFENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any act or fail to perform any
requirement which is prohibited or required by state law in so far as such laws
are applicable to municipal government.
(1976 Code, § 10-1-23) (Ord. 81, passed 2-22-1983) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.22 PUBLIC CONSUMPTION OR DISPLAY OF MEDICAL MARIJUANA.
   It is unlawful for any person to consume or display medical marijuana in a
public place, including public buildings and facilities, public and private
schools, public parks and playgrounds, churches, sidewalks, streets,
thoroughfares and public gatherings.
(1976 Code, § 10-1-24) (Ord. 567-11, passed 2-10-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.23 BODY PIERCING; MISREPRESENTATION OF AGE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a person who is under 18 years of age to
misrepresent his or her age to any person by means of a written instrument of
identification with the intent to induce a person to perform body piercing.
   (B)   It is unlawful for a person who is under 18 years of age to use a
fraudulent or false written instrument to obtain a body piercing.
   (C)   It is unlawful for a person who knowingly influences the performing of
a body piercing by misrepresenting the age of or the familiar status with such
person.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, BODY PIERCING means cutting,
injection, poking or insertion of instruments upon or under the skin for the
purpose of attaching earrings, rings, jewelry, jeweled studs or any other
metallic or plastic object for the purpose of wearing such object, excepting
the piercing of earlobes.
(1976 Code, § 10-1-25) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.24 AGGRESSIVE SOLICITATION.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AGGRESSIVE MANNER. Includes either individually or as a group:
         (a)   Intentionally or recklessly making any physical contact with or
touching another person in the course of the solicitation without the person’s
consent;
         (b)   Approaching or following the person being solicited, if the
conduct is:
            1.   Intended to or is likely to cause a reasonable person to fear
imminent bodily harm to oneself or another, or damage to or loss of property,
or the commission of a criminal act upon the person or property in the person’s
possession;
            2.   Intended to or is reasonably likely to intimidate a reasonable
person being solicited into responding affirmatively to the solicitation;
            3.   Continuing to solicit within five feet of the person being
solicited after the person has made a negative response to such solicitation;
            4.   Intentionally, knowingly or recklessly obstructing the safe or
free passage of the person being solicited, or requiring the person, or the
driver of a vehicle, to take evasive action to avoid physical contact with the
person making the solicitation. Acts authorized as an exercise of one’s
constitutional right to picket or legally protest, and acts authorized by a
permit issued by the city, shall not constitute obstruction of pedestrian or
vehicular traffic; or
            5.   Intentionally or recklessly using obscene or abusive language
or gestures:
               a.   Intended to or likely to cause a reasonable person to fear
imminent bodily harm or the commission of a criminal act upon the person or
property in the person’s possession; or
               b.   Intended to or is reasonably likely to intimidate a
reasonable person into responding affirmatively to the solicitation.
   AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINE. A device, linked to a financial institution’s
account records, which is able to carry out transactions including, but not
limited to: account transfers; deposits; cash withdrawals; balance inquiries
and mortgage and loan payments.
   AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINE FACILITY. The area comprised of one or more
automated teller machines and any adjacent space which is made available to
banking customers after regular banking hours. It shall be presumed that any
automobile parking space within 25 feet of an automated teller machine is part
of the AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINE FACILITY to provide access to bank customers.
   BANK. A bank, credit union or other similar financial institution.
   PUBLIC AREA. An area to which the public or a substantial group of persons
has access and includes, but is not limited to, alleys, bridges, buildings,
driveways, parking lots, parks, playgrounds, plazas, sidewalks and streets open
to the general public, and the doorways and entrances to buildings and
dwellings, and the grounds enclosing them.
   PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION VEHICLE. Any vehicle used for the transportation of
passengers on scheduled routes on an individual passenger fare-paying basis.
   SOLICIT. To request an immediate donation of money or other thing of value
from another person, regardless of the solicitor’s purpose or intended use of
the money or other thing of value. The SOLICITATION may be, without limitation,
by the spoken, written or printed word, or by other means of communication.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. It shall be unlawful for any person or group to
solicit money or other things of value, or to solicit the sale of goods or
services:
      (1)   In an aggressive manner in a public area;
      (2)   In any public transportation vehicle or from any persons within 15
feet of any transit stop, bus stop, taxi stand, train station platform or the
inside of the train station, except that the operator of public transportation
vehicle may request or accept payment of a fare;
      (3)   Within 15 feet of any entrance or exit of any bank or automated
teller machine facility, without the consent of the owner or other person
legally in possession of such facility; or
      (4)   Immediately adjacent to the entrance of a business in a manner that
physically interferes with ingress or egress to that business entrance.
(1976 Code, § 10-1-26) (Ord. 623-15, passed 2-25-2015) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.25 PROHIBITION OF SHARED MOBILITY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Shared mobility vehicles are prohibited in the City of Page. For the
purposes of this section, shared mobility vehicles are defined as any two-
wheeled device that:
      (1)   Is rendered operable or inoperable via a point-of-sale terminal or
an on-demand portal, whether through a smartphone application, membership card,
or similar method;
      (2)   Is made available by a private entity that owns, manages, or
maintains devices for shared use by members of the public; and
      (3)   Is available to members of the public in unstaffed, self-service
locations.
   (B)   Each day that a violation of this section continues shall constitute a
separate offense. A fine may be imposed for each shared mobility vehicle and
for each day that the shared mobility vehicle(s) is or are distributed,
operated, used, rented, or furnished in violation of this section.
(Ord. 680-21, passed 3-24-2021)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Each day any violation of any provision of §
130.24 shall continue shall constitute a separate offense. A violation of §
130.24 shall be a Class 3 misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punishable
by a fine of up to $500 and up to 30 days in jail.
(1976 Code, § 10-1-26.3)
CHAPTER 131: GRAFFITI
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Graffiti prohibited
   
131.03   Accessibility to graffiti implements
   
131.04   Graffiti as nuisance; graffiti removal
   
131.05   Abatement procedures; notice; administrative review
   
131.06   Trust Fund established
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABATEMENT. The act of removal of graffiti.
   AEROSOL PAINT CONTAINER. Any aerosol container that is adapted or made for
the purposes of applying spray paint or other substances capable of defacing
property.
   BROAD-TIPPED MARKER. Any type of marker or similar instrument with a flat or
angled writing surface of one-fourth inch or greater which contains ink or
other pigmented liquid that is not water soluble.
   BUSINESS DAYS. The days of the week of Monday through Friday, excluding
legal holidays.
   ETCHING EQUIPMENT. Any tool device or substance that can be used to make
permanent marks on the surface of any property.
   GRAFFITI. Any unauthorized inscription, word, figure, painting or other
defacement that is written, marked, etched, scratched, sprayed, drawn, painted
or engraved on or otherwise affixed to any surface of public or private
property by any graffiti implement, to the extent that the graffiti was not
authorized in advance by the owner or occupant of the property, or, despite
advance authorization, is otherwise deemed a public nuisance by the City
Council.
   GRAFFITI IMPLEMENT. An aerosol paint container, a broad-tipped marker, paint
stick or graffiti stick, etching equipment, brush or any other device capable
of scarring or leaving a visible mark on any natural or human-made surface when
the tools are used in an overt criminal act.
   PRIOR AUTHORIZATION. With prior permission of the owner, manager or other
person in control of the private or public property.
   RESPONSIBLE. Accountable, as for something within one’s power.
(1976 Code, § 10-2-1)
§ 131.02 GRAFFITI PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person may apply any graffiti to any natural or human-made surfaces
on any publicly-owned property or any privately-owned property without the
prior written consent of the owner or responsible party. The application of
graffiti is deemed to be an act of malicious or willful misconduct.
   (B)   No person may possess aerosol paint containers, broad-tipped markers,
etching equipment or any graffiti implements on any public property or private
property with the intent to violate or in violation of this section.
   (C)   No minor may be in possession of aerosol paint containers, broad-
tipped markers, etching equipment or any other graffiti implements on any
public property, structure or facility, any school property, structure or
facility, or any private property without prior written permission of the
lawful owner or responsible party for the property. The provisions of this
section do not apply to minors possessing such implements for classes or
organized extracurricular activities that require the use of such implements
and whose use is limited to legitimate activities.
(1976 Code, § 10-2-2) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 ACCESSIBILITY TO GRAFFITI IMPLEMENTS.
   (A)   Furnishing to minors prohibited.
      (1)   No person may sell any aerosol paint containers or broad-tipped
markers, nor shall anyone sell, give, lend or otherwise make available other
graffiti implements to a minor unless that minor is accompanied by a parent or
legal guardian at the time of purchase or transfer, and the purchase is for
legitimate use in classes, organized extracurricular activities or other
legitimate activities.
      (2)   No minor may furnish fraudulent evidence of majority at the time of
purchase or transfer of any aerosol paint containers, broad-tipped markers or
any other graffiti implements.
   (B)   Display and storage. Every person who owns, operates or manages a
commercial retail establishment that sells aerosol paint containers or broad-
tipped markers must store the implements in an area inaccessible to the public
without employee or owner assistance, or that is continuously observable
through direct visual observation or surveillance equipment by the
establishment’s owner(s) or employees during the regular course of business.
   (C)   Signs required. Every person who operates a commercial retail
establishment that sells graffiti implements shall:
      (1)   Place a sign at or near the display of such products stating:
“Graffiti is against the law. Any person who defaces property with paint,
markers and other liquid or marking device is guilty of a crime punishable by
imprisonment and/or fines as allowed by law and restitution”; and/or
      (2)   Place a sign in view of persons accepting customer payment for
graffiti implements, stating: “Selling aerosol paint containers or broad-tipped
markers to persons under the age of 18 is against the law and punishable by an
imprisonment and/or fines as allowed by law and restitution”.
(1976 Code, § 10-2-3) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 GRAFFITI AS NUISANCE; GRAFFITI REMOVAL.
   (A)   Graffiti as nuisance. The existence of graffiti on public and private
property in violation of this chapter is expressly declared to be a public
nuisance.
   (B)   Removal of graffiti by perpetrator. Any person applying graffiti on
public or private property must remove or pay for the removal of the graffiti
in a manner approved by the property owner within 24 hours of notification.
Failure of any person to remove or pay for removal of graffiti constitutes an
additional violation of this chapter. If graffiti is applied by a minor, the
parent(s) or legal guardian are also responsible for removal or payment for
removal of graffiti.
   (C)   Removal of graffiti by property owner. It shall be unlawful for any
person owning or otherwise in control of any real property within the city to
maintain, permit or allow graffiti to remain on any property where the graffiti
is visible from any street or other public or private property. The owner or
other person in control of any public or private property shall remove or cause
to be removed any graffiti on the property within three business days,
excluding legal holidays and weekends, of the placement of the graffiti.
Absenteeism from the property of the owner or person in control of the property
or knowledge of the graffiti by the owner or person in control of the property
shall be considered when determining a violation of this section.
   (D)   Removal of graffiti by city. The city is authorized, but not required,
to use public funds for graffiti abatement on public or private property. The
city is not required to paint, remove or repair an area more extensive than
that covered by graffiti, unless the owner has made prior arrangements with the
city and agreed to pay the costs for more extensive painting, removal or
repair.
(1976 Code, § 10-2-4) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 ABATEMENT PROCEDURES; NOTICE; ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW.
   (A)   Permission for entry; cost recovery by city.
      (1)   Permission from an owner.
         (a)   If the owner or responsible party of the property signs a
permission form, the city or its private contractor may enter the property to
abate graffiti.
         (b)   The owner or responsible party shall be responsible for the cost
of the abatement, unless prior agreement for the costs are made.
      (2)   No permission from an owner.
         (a)   If the property owner or responsible party refuses to sign a
permission form or cannot be located and the city, at its sole discretion,
deems it appropriate to abate graffiti on the property, the city will issue a
notice of graffiti abatement.
         (b)   The notice may be served in person, by certified mail, by
posting on the subject property, or publishing in a city newspaper of general
circulation.
   (B)   Notice. The notice of graffiti abatement will contain the following
information:
      (1)   Identify the property and describe the nature of the graffiti;
      (2)   A statement declaring that the property is a public nuisance;
      (3)   A statement declaring that abatement may commence within three
business days from the date of the notice;
      (4)   Liability waived: neither the city or its private contractor shall
be liable for any abatement of graffiti that does not match or resemble the
original surface; and
      (5)   Cost recovery: the owner or persons in control of the property
shall be responsible for the cost of the abatement, unless prior agreement for
the costs are made.
   (C)   Designation of Enforcement Authority and Hearing Officers.
      (1)   All officers and investigators of the City Police Department, City
Fire Department, the City Building Official, the Code Enforcement Officer, the
Building Inspectors, Sanitation Inspector and the Code Enforcement specialist
are authorized to issue notices of graffiti abatement for violations of this
code within city jurisdiction.
      (2)   The City Council shall appoint a Hearing Officer for graffiti
abatement to preside over an administrative review from persons interested from
within the city. The Hearing Officer may be reappointed or replaced by majority
vote of the Council at any regular City Council meeting.
   (D)   Administrative review.
      (1)   Request for review. An owner or responsible party may object to the
notice of graffiti abatement by filing a written request for review with the
Hearing Officer no later than three business days after receiving the notice of
graffiti abatement.
      (2)   Review process. Upon timely receipt of the request for review, the
Hearing Officer, will notify the enforcement authority to defer enforcement
action until the review is final. The owner or responsible party must promptly
supply the Hearing Officer with any additional information necessary to
determine whether or not the property constitutes a nuisance. When the review
is final, the Hearing Officer will notify the owner or responsible party and
the enforcement authority of his findings within five business days. The owner
or responsible party will be notified by certified mail.
      (3)   Determinations of the Hearing Officer. The determination by the
Hearing Officer is final and not appealable, if the Hearing Officer determines
that the property contains graffiti and is a public nuisance, the Hearing
Officer will issue a written eradication order stating that the city may enter
upon the property with 24 hours and abate the graffiti.
(1976 Code, § 10-2-5) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06 TRUST FUND ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The City Council hereby creates the City Anti-Graffiti Trust Fund. The
proportion of the penalties assessed against violators of this chapter that
accrues to the city will be placed in the fund, along with any monetary
donations received from persons wishing to contribute to the fund.
   (B)   The Council will direct the expenditures of monies in the fund.
Expenditures are limited to payment for the cost of graffiti removal, rewards
for information leading to the successful arrest and indictment of violators of
this chapter, the costs of administering this chapter, and such other public
purposes that are involved with graffiti abatement.
(1976 Code, § 10-2-6)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be
punished by a fine not exceeding $300 or by imprisonment not exceeding six
months or by both fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   A person who is convicted of a violation of §
131.02:
      (1)   Shall be punished by not less than 40 hours of community service
involving the removal of graffiti within the community and a fine of not less
than $250 and/or by imprisonment of not less than 48 hours in jail;
      (2)   The court shall order restitution to the victim for damage or loss
caused directly or indirectly by the defendant’s offense in an amount equal to
the damages and/or abatement thereof;
      (3)   Any person under the age of 18 will be punished as provided for in
A.R.S. Title 8; and
      (4)   No judge shall suspend the imposition of any of the mandatory
minimum penalties required by this section.
(1976 Code, § 10-2-7)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDINGS
      
151.   AIRPORT
      
152.   ZONING CODE
      
153.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
      
154.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDINGS
Section
   
150.01   International Building Code adopted
   
150.02   International Residential Code adopted
   
150.03   Must conform to Zoning Code
   
150.04   Adoption of building permit fees
   
150.05   National Electric Code adopted
   
150.06   International Mechanical Code adopted
   
150.07   International Plumbing Code adopted
   
150.08   International Fuel Gas Code adopted
   
150.09   International Energy Conservation Code adopted
   
150.10   International Existing Building Code adopted
   
150.11   International Pool and Spa Code adopted
   
150.12   Building Official
§ 150.01 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The certain code entitled “International Building Code” 2018 edition,
and Appendix Chapters B, H, and I, contained therein, amending but excluding §
903.2.8, published by the International Code Council, is hereby adopted as the
“Building Code of the City of Page”, and made a part of this chapter the same
as though said codes were specifically set forth in full herein and a copy of
said code shall be on file with the office of the City Building Department and
kept available for public uses and inspection within City Hall.
   (B)   Section 903.2.8 Group R, Automatic Sprinkler System Requirement, is
deleted from Group R3 if the structure is less than 4,000 square feet.
(1976 Code, § 7-1-1) (Ord. 665-19, passed 12-11-2019)
§ 150.02 INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The certain code entitled “International Residential Code for One- and
Two-Family Dwellings” 2018 edition, and Appendix Chapters A, B, C, D, and H and
P, contained therein, published by the International Code Council, is hereby
adopted as the “Residential Building Code of the City of Page” and made a part
of this chapter the same as though said codes were specifically set forth in
full herein and a copy of said code shall be on file with the office of the
City Building Department and kept available for public use and inspection
within City Hall.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Chapter 1: R105.2.1 amend One-story Detached Accessory Structures
from 200 square feet to 144 square feet.
      (2)   Chapter 1: R105.2.10 All Decks Shall be Permitted; amended from
decks not exceeding 200 square feet.
      (3)   Chapter 3: R313.2 One and Two-family Dwellings Automatic Fire
Sprinkler Systems Requirement is deleted in its entirety.
      (4)   Chapter 11 Energy Efficiency is replaced in its entirety with 2012
IRC chapter 11 Energy Efficiency.
      (5)   Chapter 39: E3902.16 Arc-fault Circuit Interrupter Protection
Requirement is amended as follows: branch circuits that supply 120-volt,
single-phase, and 15 and 20-ampere outlets in bedrooms, sleeping rooms, and
similar rooms shall be protected by any of the following: [NEC 210.12(A)]
(1976 Code, § 7-1-1.01) (Ord. 543-09, passed 1-22-2009; Ord. 665-19, passed 12-
11-2019)
§ 150.03 MUST CONFORM TO ZONING CODE.
   Whenever a building permit is issued and a building inspection performed,
such building must conform to the provisions of the zoning ordinance of the
city in addition to the provisions of this chapter.
(1976 Code, § 7-1-2) (Ord. 543-09, passed 1-22-2009)
§ 150.04 ADOPTION OF BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   For the issuance of building permits, fees shall be shown in Table 1-
A below.
Table 1-A Building Permit Fees
Total Valuation Fee
Table 1-A Building Permit Fees
Total Valuation        Fee
$1 to $500             $23.50
                       $23.50 for the first $500, plus $3.05 for each
$501 to $2,000         additional $100, or fraction thereof, to and including
                       $2,000
                       $69.25 for the first $2,000, plus $14 for each
$2,001 to $25,000      additional $1,000, or fraction thereof, to and including
                       $25,000
                       $391.25 for the first $25,000, plus $10.10 for each
$25,001 to $50,000     additional $1,000, or fraction thereof, to and including
                       $50,000
                       $643.75 for the first $50,000, plus $7 for each
$50,001 to $100,000    additional $1,000, or fraction thereof, to and including
                       $100,000
                       $993.75 for the first $100,000, plus $5.60 for each
$100,001 to $500,000   additional $1,000, or fraction thereof, to and including
                       $500,000
                       $3,233.75 for the first $500,000, plus $4.75 for each
$500,001 to $1,000,000 additional $1,000, or fraction thereof, to and including
                       $1,000,000
$1,000,001 and up      $5,608.75 for the first $1,000,000, plus $3.65 for each
                       additional $1,000, or fraction thereof
 
Table 1-A Building Permit Fees
Other Inspections and Fees Hourly Charge
Table 1-A Building Permit Fees
Other Inspections and Fees               Hourly Charge
1. Inspections outside of normal         $47 per hour* (minimum charge: two
business hours                           hours)
2. Re-inspection fees                    $47 per hour
3. Inspections for which no fee is       $47 per hour (minimum charge: one-half
specifically indicated                   hour)
4. Additional plan review required by    $47 per hour*
changes, additions or revisions to plans
For use of outside consultants for plan  Actual costs**
checking and inspections, or both:
*Or the total hourly cost to the jurisdiction, whichever is the greatest. This
cost shall include supervision, overhead, equipment, hourly wages and fringe
benefits of the employees involved
**Actual costs include administrative and overhead costs
 
   (B)   When submittal documents are required, a plan review fee shall be paid
at the time of submitting documents for plan review. Said plan review shall be
65% of the building permit fee as shown in Table 1-A.
(1976 Code, § 7-1-3) (Ord. 543-09, passed 1-22-2009)
§ 150.05 NATIONAL ELECTRIC CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The certain code entitled “National Electrical Code”, 2017 edition,
and annexes A, B, C, D, and E contained therein, published by the National
Electrical Code Committee, is hereby adopted as the “Electric Code of the City
of Page” and made a part of this chapter the same as though said codes were
specifically set forth in full herein and a copy of said code shall be on file
with the office of the City Building Department and kept available for public
use and inspection within City Hall. Administration, § 80.19 (E) entitled
“Fees” shall be as follows: For the issuance of each electrical permit: $27 for
the first $500, plus $3.75 for each additional $1,000 of valuation of
construction costs.
   (B)   Other inspections and fees: re-inspection fees and inspections outside
of normal business hours at the rate of $54 per hour or portion thereof.
   (C)   Section 210.12 AFCI Protection in Group R3 amended as follows: branch
circuits that supply 120-volt, single-phase, and 15 and 20-ampere outlets in
bedrooms, sleeping rooms, and similar rooms shall be protected by any of the
following [... ].
(1976 Code, § 7-2) (Ord. 543-09, passed 1-22-2009; Ord. 665-19, passed 12-11-
2019)
§ 150.06 INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   The certain code entitled “International Mechanical Code” 2018 edition, and
Appendix Chapters A and B contained therein, published by the International
Code Council, is hereby adopted as the “Mechanical Code of the City of Page”
and made a part of this chapter the same as though said codes were specifically
set forth in full herein and a copy of said code shall be on file with the
office of the City Building Department and kept available for public use and
inspection within City Hall.
(1976 Code, § 7-3) (Ord. 543-09, passed 1-22-2009; Ord. 665-19, passed 12-11-
2019)
§ 150.07 INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED.
   The certain code entitled "International Plumbing Code, 2018 Edition",
including appendix chapters A, B, C, D, and E contained therein, published by
the International Code Council, is hereby adopted as the plumbing code of the
city, and made a part of this chapter the same as though the said codes were
specifically set forth in full herein and a copy of said code shall be on file
at the City Building Department located at City Hall.
(1976 Code, § 7-4) (Ord. 575-11, passed 9-8-2011; Ord. 665-19, passed 12-11-
2019)
§ 150.08 INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE ADOPTED.
   The certain code entitled "International Fuel Gas Code" 2018 Edition, and
appendix chapters A and B contained therein, published by the International
Code Council, is hereby adopted as the "Fuel Gas Code of the City of Page" and
made a part of this chapter the same as though said codes were specifically set
forth in full herein and a copy of said code shall be on file with the office
of the City Building Department and kept available for public use and
inspection within City Hall.
(Ord. 665-19, passed 12-11-2019)
§ 150.09 INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE ADOPTED.
   The certain code entitled "International Energy Conservation Code " 2012
Edition, published by the International Code Council, is hereby adopted as the
"International Energy Conservation Code of the City of Page" and made a part of
this chapter the same as though said codes were specifically set forth in full
herein and a copy of said code shall be on file with the office of the City
Building Department and kept available for public use and inspection within
City Hall.
(Ord. 665-19, passed 12-11-2019)
§ 150.10 INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The certain code entitled "International Existing Building Code" 2018
Edition, published by the International Code Council, is hereby adopted as the
"International Existing Building Code of The City of Page" and made a part of
this chapter the same as though said codes were specifically set forth in full
herein and a copy of said code shall be on file with the office of the City
Building Department and kept available for public use and inspection within
City Hall.
(Ord. 665-19, passed 12-11-2019)
§ 150.11 INTERNATIONAL POOL AND SPA CODE ADOPTED.
   The certain code entitled "International Pool and Spa Code" 2018 Edition,
including Appendix Chapters A, B, C and D published by the International Code
Council, is hereby adopted as the "International Pool and Spa Code of the City
of Page" and made a part of this chapter the same as though said codes were
specifically set forth in full herein and a copy of said code shall be on file
with the office of the City Building Department and kept available for public
use and inspection within City Hall.
(Ord. 665-19, passed 12-11-2019)
§ 150.12 BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   The Building Official and administrative authority as such may be referenced
in any section of this chapter for all matters pertaining to any building,
plumbing, electrical and other inspections shall be vested in the office of the
City Manager or his or her designee; provided, that the Council may authorize
such deputies as needed to perform any inspection work or other functions that
may be required by this chapter.
(1976 Code, § 7-6) (Ord. 151, passed 12-12-1985; Ord. 665-19, passed 12-11-
2019)
CHAPTER 151: AIRPORT
Section
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   General operations
   
151.03   Conduct of public users
   
151.04   Aircraft operations; landings and takeoffs
   
151.05   Aircraft traffic and taxi patterns; procedures
   
151.06   Vehicle, bicycle, pedestrian traffic and parking
   
151.07   Safety
   
151.08   Commercial activities
   
151.09   Aircraft fees
   
151.10   Leases; special use permit; minimum standards
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All
definitions contained within the Federal Aviation Act, being 49 U.S.C. §§ 101
et seq., and all amendments thereto, and aeronautical provisions of the state
statutes, are hereby incorporated by this reference.
   AIRPORT. The areas comprising the City Municipal Airport as currently mapped
or as may hereafter be expanded and developed, including all buildings,
structures, hangars, parking areas, pedestrian walkways, ramp areas, apron
areas, gates, taxiways, runways, run-up areas, amenities and undeveloped areas.
   AIRPORT DIRECTOR. The City Manager of the City of Page or designee.
   CITY. The municipality of the City of Page, Coconino County, Arizona, as
governed by the Mayor and City Council.
   COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY. The conduct of any business, concession, fixed base
operation, fund raising or other revenue producing activity on the airport
premises. Activities by non-profit organizations shall not be considered
COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES.
   COMMERCIAL OPERATOR. Any fixed base operator, FAR Part 135 Operator, FAR
Part 121 Operator, air ambulance operator, flight instructor, mechanic or other
operator engaged in a commercial activity or conduct on the airport.
   FIXED BASE OPERATOR. A person, proprietorship, partnership or corporation
which has a facility on the airport engaging in commercial activities
including, as a minimum, fuel sales, aircraft maintenance and pilot services.
   OPERATOR. Any person, proprietorship, partnership or corporation in
possession of or operating an aircraft or vehicle.
   OWNER. A person, proprietorship, partnership or corporation entitled to
possession of an aircraft or vehicle by virtue of FAA registration, legal title
or lease agreement.
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of an aircraft or vehicle whether or not
occupied.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PERMISSION or PERMIT. Permission granted by the City or Airport Director,
unless otherwise herein provided.
   USER. Any person, proprietorship, partnership or corporation, fixed base
operator, vehicle operator, spectator, sightseer, lessee, invitee and the
general public.
   VEHICLE. A device in, upon or by which any person or property may be
propelled, moved, carried or pulled, including aircraft and automobiles, but
excluding a device moved by human power.
(1976 Code, § 14-1) (Ord. 552-09, passed 10-22-2009)
§ 151.02 GENERAL OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Use of airport conditional; revocation of authority. Users shall
comply with applicable federal, state and municipal laws, rules and regulations
and the provisions of this chapter. The city or Airport Director may deny use
of the airport to any user with just cause and with adequate notice.
   (B)   Control during emergencies. During an airport emergency, the Airport
Director shall have absolute authority to control the airport subject to
federal, state and local law and provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   City liability. The city shall not be liable for loss, injury or
damage to airport users or their property resulting from the negligent acts or
omissions of other users or from fire, vandalism, wind, flood, earthquake or
other events outside the control of the city.
   (D)   Ejection. The Airport Director shall have the authority to eject from
the airport premises any user who violates provisions of this chapter where a
clear immediate hazard/danger to health and safety exists.
   (E)   Damage to airport property. Users responsible for, or causing damage
to airport property shall be required to pay the city the costs of repairs.
Users may be refused access to the airport until full remuneration has been
received by the city.
   (F)   Accident reports. Users involved in vehicle accidents, causing bodily
injury, damage to an aircraft or other damage in excess of $500, occurring at
the airport shall make a full written report to the Airport Director as soon as
possible after an accident. When a written report of an accident is required by
the FAA, NTSB and/or the state, a copy of that report may be submitted to the
Airport Director in lieu of the report required above.
   (G)   Removal of aircraft and vehicles causing a hazard. Aircraft or
vehicles causing a clear safety hazard to airport users may be removed or
relocated at the discretion of the Airport Director. Users may be charged a
reasonable fee for service costs incurred in removing or relocating the vehicle
or aircraft.
   (H)   Charitable events. Charitable events may be held on the airport
without a special permit. The organization holding the event shall notify and
obtain written permission from the airport manager a minimum of two weeks
before the event.
(1976 Code, § 14-2) (Ord. 552-09, passed 10-22-2009)
§ 151.03 CONDUCT OF PUBLIC USERS.
   (A)   Restricted areas. Certain airport areas are designated as restricted
areas by federal and/or state law. Access to these areas shall be in accordance
with applicable federal and/or state law. Temporary restricted areas may be
established by the Airport Director in the event of a clear emergency (see §
151.02(B)). Access to these restricted areas may be granted by the Airport
Director and/or the applicable controlling authority.
   (B)   Loitering, soliciting and prohibited conduct. Users shall not loiter,
panhandle, solicit or engage in any activity in violation of city ordinances or
this chapter. This shall not be construed to prohibit private gatherings/
parties in personal hangars or adjacent areas.
   (C)   Property damage. Users shall not destroy, damage, deface or disturb
airport or private property including buildings, signs, equipment, markers,
vehicles, aircraft and landscaping.
   (D)   Sanitation and hazardous waste. Users shall dispose of refuse in
approved receptacles. The disposal of batteries, fuel, oil and other hazardous
materials, on airport property, is prohibited without the express authorization
of the Airport Director.
   (E)   Use of runways, taxiways, roadways and walkways. Users shall travel on
or occupy only those areas, runways, taxiways, aprons, runup areas, roadways,
pedestrian walkways or other specifically designated areas provided for the
particular class of traffic or activity and shall not hinder or obstruct its
proper use. This shall not be construed to prohibit the temporary parking of
aircraft and/or vehicles in front of hangars while preparing for flight and/or
servicing such hangars and/or aircraft.
   (F)   Abandoning personal property. Users shall not abandon personal
property on the airport. Personal property on airport property, outside of
hangars or designated areas, shall be considered abandoned after 90 days and is
subject to removal at the owner’s expense.
   (G)   Interfering or tampering with aircraft and vehicles. Users shall not
touch, obstruct or interfere with the operation of any vehicle or aircraft.
Interfering or tampering with aircraft is a federal crime.
   (H)   Smoking. Users shall not smoke within city-owned buildings, within 20
feet of openings in these buildings, or on the ramp within 50 feet of a fuel
tank, fuel truck or aircraft, or in such other areas designated by the Airport
Director as nonsmoking areas.
   (I)   Model aircraft, kites, balloons, parachutes. Users shall not operate
model aircraft, kites, balloons or parachutes anywhere on the airport without
the written permission of the Airport Director.
   (J)   Dogs and other animals. Dogs and other animals must be on a leash or
confined in a restricted environment.
   (K)   Commercial activities. Users seeking to conduct commercial activities
must have a lease or special use permit approved by the Airport Director or
City Council.
   (L)   Unlawful conduct; alcoholic beverages. Users shall not sell alcoholic
beverages at the airport except in designated areas licensed to dispense those
beverages. Users under the influence of drugs or alcohol shall not enter or
remain on the airport.
   (M)   Firearms, weapons and explosives. Carriage of firearms, weapons or
explosives, radioactive substances or material, or flammable materials/fuels on
airport premises shall be in compliance with federal and state regulations.
(1976 Code, § 14-3) (Ord. 552-09, passed 10-22-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.04 AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS; LANDINGS AND TAKEOFFS.
   (A)   Authority to close the airport; prohibit or restrict vehicle movement.
The Airport Director may prohibit vehicles from driving, taxiing, relocating,
landing, taking off or otherwise using the airport during an airport emergency
(see §
151.02(B)) or when such activities are likely to endanger users or property.
   (B)   Compliance with FAA rules and regulations. Users shall not control any
aircraft or conduct any aircraft operation at the airport in violation of any
Federal Aviation Administration rule or regulation.
   (C)   Negligent operations prohibited; promulgation of operating procedures.
No aircraft shall be operated on or over the airport in a careless or negligent
manner, in violation of any federal, state or municipal law, or in disregard to
the rights and safety of others. The Airport Director may develop recommended
operating procedures that address safety and incursion issues for review by the
Airport Board and possible approval by the City Council.
   (D)   Agricultural aircraft operation. Agricultural aircrafts may land and
take off for the purpose of procuring services offered by fixed based
operators. Agricultural aircraft spray operations shall not be flown,
facilitated or conducted at the airport without the expressed written approval
of the airport manager. Storage of agricultural chemicals, pesticides or
herbicides is prohibited without the prior permission of the Airport Director.
All agricultural planes must be washed in designated areas and be free of all
chemical residues before tying down at the airport. Agricultural aircrafts may
be restricted to a specific tie down area as designated by the Airport
Director.
   (E)   Exiting landing runway. Aircraft landing at the airport shall make the
landing runway available to others by exiting the runway environment to
appropriate holding or taxiways as soon as safely practical.
   (F)   Experimental flights; demonstrations; aerobatics. Experimental flights
shall be conducted in accordance with FAA regulations. Ground demonstrations
shall be conducted in accordance with FAA regulations. Aerobatic flights over
the airport are prohibited without the written approval of the Airport
Director.
(1976 Code, § 14-4) (Ord. 552-09, passed 10-22-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.05 AIRCRAFT TRAFFIC AND TAXI PATTERNS; PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Aircraft patterns. Aircraft using Runway 33 shall use right-hand
traffic patterns. Aircraft using Runway 15 shall use left-hand traffic
patterns. Aircraft using Runway 25 shall use right-hand traffic patterns.
Aircraft using Runway 7 shall use left-hand traffic patterns. All aircraft must
comply with all FAA regulations when entering and exiting the traffic pattern.
Rotor wing aircraft may utilize traffic patterns authorized by Federal Aviation
Regulations.
   (B)   Aircraft taxi. Aircrafts shall taxi at speeds reasonable and prudent
to ensure complete control at all times. Aircrafts shall taxi only on taxiways
and ramps utilizing designated yellow striping. Aircrafts shall not be taxied
into or out of hangars or in other areas which will subject other aircraft to
unnecessary prop or jet blast. Aircraft shall not be taxied on white striped
areas designated as ground vehicle roadways or pedestrian ways. Helicopters
shall avoid flight over fixed wing aircraft, parked fuel trucks, pedestrians
and airline security areas.
   (C)   Aircraft communication. All aircrafts with radios shall announce
intentions on the appropriate CTAF or Unicom frequency prior to taxi and take-
off, while entering or exiting the traffic pattern, or as is otherwise
necessary to ensure the safety of airport users.
   (D)   Aircraft tie-down. Users shall not leave light aircraft unattended
unless tied down securely with chain or rope in a designated tie-down area. The
setting of chocks and/or brakes will not satisfy this requirement for light
aircraft without the permission of the Airport Director. For larger aircrafts
over 12,500 pounds maximum gross weight-chocking of the main wheels will
suffice.
   (E)   Aircraft disabled. Disabled aircrafts shall be promptly removed or
relocated from airport movement areas by the user unless otherwise directed by
the Airport Director, National Transportation Safety Board or Federal Aviation
Administration. Users may be charged a reasonable fee for service costs
incurred in removing disabled aircraft.
(1976 Code, § 14-5) (Ord. 552-09, passed 10-22-2009)
§ 151.06 VEHICLE, BICYCLE, PEDESTRIAN TRAFFIC AND PARKING.
   (A)   Operation of vehicles; pedestrians; bicycles. Users shall travel on or
occupy only those area designated for that particular class of travel. The
Airport Director may establish, with the advice of the Airport Board, policies,
guidelines and procedures to ensure safe traffic flow on airport property.
   (B)   Speed limits. Vehicles at the airport shall be operated in strict
compliance with posted speed limits. The prevailing posted speed limit for ramp
areas is 15 mph.
   (C)   Loading or unloading passengers. Owners and operators of vehicles
shall load and unload passengers in a safe and reasonable manner. FAA Part 121
operators may load and unload passengers only in designated areas.
   (D)   Vehicles in sound mechanical order. All vehicles on airport property
must be operational and licensed except as follows: vehicles operated by air
carriers and fixed base operators during the course of commercial activities on
the airport need not be licensed. Aircraft tugs, golf carts and similar
personal transportation vehicles need not be licensed.
   (E)   Repair of motor vehicles. Users shall clean, repair and/or overhaul
vehicles only in authorized areas designated by the Airport Director.
(1976 Code, § 14-6) (Ord. 552-09, passed 10-22-2009)
§ 151.07 SAFETY.
   (A)   Grounding/bonding during fuel handling. Vehicles being fueled/de-
fueled shall be electrically grounded/bonded to the fuel dispensing vehicle or
draining apparatus.
   (B)   Fueling or de-fueling. No aircraft shall be fueled or de-fueled except
by an authorized commercial operator designated by the Airport Director; except
that the aircraft owner, operator or pilot may fuel/de-fuel his or her own
aircraft. Aircraft may not be fueled or de-fueled inside any hangar.
   (C)   Removal of fuel, oil, grease; care of surface areas. Users shall not
permit fuel, oil, grease, battery acid or any other hazardous material to
contact airport surface areas. Users must immediately remove any hazardous
substance contacting the airport surface and, if unable or required by law,
contact the Airport Director, fixed base operator, City Fire Department, State
Department of Environmental Quality (ADEQ), or Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA). Any costs incurred by the city or other authorities shall be the
responsibility of user.
   (D)   Permissible storage of lubricating oils and fuels. The City Fire
Department will determine the amount and type of storable oils and fuels
permitted in buildings at the airport per the National Fire Protection
Association. The Airport Director shall have the authority to enforce the
limitations. These quantities shall be clearly posted and given to all airport
tenants.
   (E)   Washing and maintaining aircraft. Washing, degreasing or other
maintenance of aircraft shall be conducted only in areas designated by the
Airport Director. Washing and degreasing areas shall be clearly posted. The
owner/lessee/operator of an aircraft may perform maintenance in his or her or
its own hangar at his or her sole discretion. He or she may hire, at his or her
sole discretion, any person of his or her or its choice to assist/perform such
maintenance.
   (F)   Fueling of non-aeronautical vehicles. Non-aeronautical vehicles may be
fueled by fixed base operators on non-secured airport premises subject to a
fueling policy established by the City Manager.
(1976 Code, § 14-7) (Ord. 552-09, passed 10-22-2009; Ord. 559-10, passed 5-27-
2010)
§ 151.08 COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Commercial activities. Users and commercial operators seeking to
conduct commercial activities at the airport must have a lease or special use
permit issued pursuant to §
151.10.
   (B)   Commercial photography. No person shall take still, motion or sound
pictures of or at the airport for commercial purposes without permission of the
Airport Director.
   (C)   Use of commercial area. Only authorized users and their employees
shall occupy leased or special use permit areas designated for commercial
activities.
(1976 Code, § 14-8) (Ord. 552-09, passed 10-22-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.09 AIRCRAFT FEES.
   (A)   Aircraft ramp and service fees. The City Council may approve rates and
charges for ramp access, hangars, hangar pads, covered tie-downs, ramp tie-
downs, fuel flowage fees, parking, hazardous waste disposal, utilities and
other airport services. Aircraft operating under FAR Part 91 may be charged a
rate different than commercial operators as herein defined.
   (B)   Aircraft landing fees. The City Council may approve landing fees.
Aircraft operating under FAR Part 91 shall not be charged landing fees.
Commercial operators operating under FAR Part 135, FAR Part 121, or as
otherwise herein defined may be charged a landing fee in addition to aircraft
ramp and service fees. Commercial operators will be assessed legal costs
necessary to collect landing fee charges.
(1976 Code, § 14-9) (Ord. 552-09, passed 10-22-2009)
§ 151.10 LEASES; SPECIAL USE PERMIT; MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   (A)   Lease and special use permits; application. Commercial operators may
obtain a lease to occupy specific facilities or space for conducting commercial
activities at the airport or, in the alternative, obtain a special use permit
to conduct commercial activities not requiring facilities or dedicated space.
All applicants seeking a lease or special use permit must submit to the Airport
Director an application and documentation confirming that the commercial
operator will meet the minimum standards for leasing space, conducting business
and complying with applicable federal, state and municipal laws, rules and
regulations.
   (B)   Approval of lease. The Airport Board should review the lease
application and submit its recommendations to the City Council. The City
Council shall review and possibly approve each lease application submitted by
the Airport Director. The City Council may, in addition, lease any airport
property on such terms and conditions as the city may prescribe by negotiation,
public auction or sealed bids. All leases made pursuant to public auction or
sealed bids shall be made to the highest responsible bidder at the highest bid
after notice in accordance with Title III. The city may, at its sole
discretion, reject any and all bids.
   (C)   Issuance of special use permit. The special use permit is intended for
those providing aviation related-services, which do not require a permanent
facility on the airport. Commercial operators seeking a special use permit must
submit a completed application and comply with the terms and conditions
established for holders of a special use permit. The Airport Board will prepare
and submit to the City Council, for its review and possible approval, an
application form, which includes the standard rates, terms and conditions for
special use permits. These rates will be reviewed, and recommended revisions
submitted, on the same schedule as hangar and tie-down lease rates.
   (D)   Lease applications. Lease applications may require additional
documentation, including description of the facilities or space to be leased,
description of the commercial activity conducted, financial statements,
statement of qualifications, copies of business licenses, proof of insurance,
release of information forms, permits and references.
   (E)   Sub-leases; prior permission required. Sub-lease of leased premises
shall not be permitted without prior written permission of the Airport
Director.
   (F)   Term of lease and special use permit.
      (1)   Ground leases without leasehold improvements existing at the time
of the lease, shall not exceed 25 years, with an option to renew as agreed by
the parties.
      (2)   Leases for facilities or space in city-owned buildings may extend
from one to ten years.
      (3)   Leases for city-owned hangar space, covered shades, tie-down space
and vehicle storage space shall be referred to as special use lease agreements
and shall be month-to-month up to one year.
      (4)   Special use lease agreements shall be issued and renewed by the
Airport Director. Special use permits may be granted for up to two years.
Special use permits shall be issued and renewed by the Airport Director.
   (G)   Business license, certifications, tax permits. Lessees and holders of
special use permits shall obtain and maintain all federal, state and local
business licenses, certifications and tax permits required by the commercial
activity conducted.
   (H)   Insurance. Lessees shall provide the Airport Director a certificate of
insurance verifying the coverage specified in the lease or special use permit.
The city shall be named as an “additional named insured” and shall be provided
a copy of the endorsement. The city shall be given at least 30 days written
notice of policy alterations, cancellations or deletions.
   (I)   Performance bond. Commercial lessees shall obtain a performance bond
in an amount equal to the first and last month lease rate or as otherwise
determined by the city.
   (J)   Environmental impact statement. If the commercial activity to be
conducted requires an environmental impact statement or study, the lessee or
holder of the special use permit shall prepare and submit at its own expense
such statement or study required to measure the environmental impact of the
activity.
   (K)   Scope of commercial activity. Each commercial activity shall comply
with applicable federal and state laws and regulations, this chapter, and the
Page Municipal Airport Master Plan, Airport Layout Plan and Airport
Certification Specifications.
   (L)   Rates and charges. The City Council shall approve the rates and
charges to be assessed leaseholds and special use permits. Lessees shall pay a
base rate determined by the fair market value of the properties leased and
ancillary services and privileges provided by city to the lessee. The base rate
shall be adjusted at least every three years. Lessees shall pay all utility
services including propane, electricity, telephone, cable television, water,
sewer and internet access for the area leased.
   (M)   Tenant improvements. If lessees construct permanent improvements to
the leased city premises, the improvements shall become the property of the
city at the termination of the lease unless the city requests removal. If the
city requests such removal, all improvements must be removed at lessee’s
expense within 60 days of the termination of the lease. This does not apply to
privately owned hangars and/or similar structures on leased city land.
   (N)   Minimum standards. Minimum requirements for commercial activities
defined in Articles 14-1 and 14-10 shall be guided by FAA A/C 150/5190-5.
Requirements for minimum square footage of land, buildings, improvements and
architectural appearance for land, buildings and improvements shall be
established by the city and available through the office of the Airport
Director. FAA A/C 150/5190-5, § 2-6, provides, “The sponsor of a federally
obligated airport agrees to make the opportunity to engage in commercial
aeronautical activities available to any person, firm or corporation that meets
reasonable minimum standards established by the airport sponsor. In exchange
for this opportunity, a business operator agrees to comply with minimum
standards developed by the airport sponsor”. The Airport Director, with
approval of the Airport Board and, if appropriate, the City Council, will
develop and establish minimum standards for the Page Municipal Airport.
   (O)   Appraisal and survey. If an appraisal, survey or permits are necessary
to determine the terms and conditions of the lease, the applicant shall pay the
cost of the appraisal and/or survey.
(1976 Code, § 14-10) (Ord. 552-09, passed 10-22-2009)
 
CHAPTER 152: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Authority
   
152.002   Title
   
152.003   Purpose
   
152.004   Consistency with the general plan and other regulations
   
152.005   Applicability
   
152.006   Conflicting provisions
   
152.007   Transitional provisions
   
152.008   Rules for interpretation
   
152.009   Severability
   
152.025   Zoning districts and map established
   
152.026   Residential Districts
   
152.027   Commercial and Overlay Districts
   
152.028   Business and Industrial Districts
   
152.029   Planned Development (PD) Districts
   
152.030   Planned Area Development (PAD) District
   
152.031   Airport Districts
   
152.032   Special Districts
   
152.033   Measurements and exceptions
Supplementary Use Standards
   
152.045   Specific land use development and performance standards
   
152.046   Accessory buildings, structures and uses
   
152.047   Temporary uses and structures
General Development Regulations
   
152.055   Performance standards
   
152.056   Off-street parking and loading
   
152.057   Landscape, walls, fences and screening
   
152.058   Signage
   
152.059   Outdoor lighting
Administration
   
152.070   Purpose
   
152.071   City Council
   
152.072   Planning and Zoning Commission
   
152.073   Board of Adjustment
   
152.074   Planning and Zoning Director
Zoning Procedures
   
152.085   Purpose
   
152.086   Common procedures
   
152.087   Approval of residential zoning applications
   
152.088   General plan amendment
   
152.089   Amendments to zoning code text
   
152.090   Amendment to official zoning map (zone change)
   
152.091   Conditional use permit (CUP)
   
152.092   Temporary use permit (TUP)
   
152.093   Variance
   
152.094   Reserved
   
152.095   Site plan and building permit review and approval process
   
152.096   Annexation
Enforcement
   
152.105   Purpose
   
152.106   Enforcement responsibilities
   
152.107   Enforcement general
   
152.108   Types of violations and offenses
   
152.109   Violation remedies
   
152.110   Criminal and civil penalties
   
152.111   Continuation of prior enforcement actions
   
152.112   Cumulative procedures and remedies
Nonconformities
   
152.120   Purpose
   
152.121   General provisions
   
152.122   Nonconforming uses
   
152.123   Nonconforming structures and signs
   
152.124   Nonconforming lots of record
   
152.125   Reserved
Definitions
   
152.135   Purpose
   
152.136   General rules
   
152.137   Specific definitions
Appendices
   
Appendix A   Use Standards
   
Appendix B   Development Standards
   
Appendix C   Signs
   
Appendix D   Zoning Map
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 AUTHORITY.
   This zoning chapter is enacted based on the authority granted by this city
code and the laws of the State of Arizona, including but not limited to A.R.S.
§ 9-461 and § 9-462, which provide for the regulation of land use and
structures by municipalities in Arizona.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.002 TITLE.
   This zoning chapter shall be known as the City of Page Zoning Chapter and is
referred to throughout this document as "this chapter," “this Zoning Code” or
"this code."
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.003 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to:
   (A)   Promote the health, safety, convenience and general welfare of the
citizens of the city;
   (B)   Facilitate the orderly growth of the city and to ensure the adequate
provision of transportation, water, sewerage, electricity, schools, parks,
trails, recreation and other public facilities;
   (C)   Prevent the overcrowding of land and undue concentration of
population;
   (D)   Secure safety from fire, flood and other dangers;
2023 S-18
   (E)   Lessen or avoid congestion in the neighborhoods, commercial districts
and on local streets;
   (F)   Secure adequate light, air and privacy;
   (G)   Protect the character and the social and economic stability of all
parts of the community;
   (H)   Continuously promote and enhance the aesthetics and character of the
community; and
   (I)   Promote development in accordance with the city’s general plan.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.004 CONSISTENCY WITH THE GENERAL PLAN AND OTHER REGULATIONS.
   This chapter is intended to implement the planning goals and objectives of
the city general plan and other applicable adopted regulations. Any amendments
to, or actions pursuant to, this code shall be consistent with the general plan
and all applicable adopted regulations.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.005 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this zoning code apply to all use and development of
properties within the municipal limits of the city, except for exempted
government owned property as provided by state or federal law or as otherwise
expressly stated in this zoning code.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.006 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Provisions interpreted as minimum requirements. The standards and
regulations established by this chapter shall be construed to be the minimum
requirements necessary for the promotion of public health, safety, or other
general welfare. Minimum values are not intended to be target values. In some
instances, conditions may create the need to exceed stated minimum standards.
   (B)   Relation to other regulations.  The regulations of this chapter and
requirements or conditions imposed pursuant to this chapter shall not supersede
any other regulations or requirements adopted or imposed by the State of
Arizona, or any federal agency that has jurisdiction by law over uses and
development authorized by this chapter. All uses and development authorized by
this chapter shall comply with all other such regulations and requirements.
Where conflict occurs within this chapter or between the provisions of this
chapter and any other city ordinance, chapter, resolution, guideline or
regulation, (such as, but not limited to, fire codes, building codes, or
engineering standards) the more restrictive provisions shall control, as
determined by the Director, unless otherwise specified herein.
   (C)   Relation to private agreements. The provisions of this chapter shall
apply regardless of any private agreements if the provisions of this chapter
are more restrictive. Otherwise, this chapter shall not interfere with, affect
or annul any recorded easement, covenant, or other private agreement now in
effect, unless a development agreement has been authorized by the City Council
and executed by recording the development agreement with the County Recorder's
office, pursuant to A.R.S § 9-500.05.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.007 TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   The following rules shall apply to all properties in the city on or after
April 22, 2023, the effective date of this code:
   (A)   Violations continue. Any violation of the zoning code previously in
effect (12-28-2018 Zoning Ordinance No. 648-18) will continue to be a violation
under this code and shall be subject to the penalties and enforcement
provisions provided in §§
152.105 through
152.112, unless the use, development, construction or other activity complies
with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   Uses rendered nonconforming under prior ordinance. Any legal
nonconformity under the previous zoning ordinance will also be a legal
nonconformity under this chapter, so long as the situation that resulted in the
legal nonconforming status under the previous chapter continues to exist. If a
legal nonconformity under the previous chapter becomes conforming due to the
adoption of this chapter, then it is conforming.
   (C)   Uses rendered nonconforming under this chapter.
      (1)   When a building, structure, or lot is used for a purpose that was a
permitted use before the effective date of this zoning chapter, and this zoning
chapter no longer classifies such use as a permitted use, such use shall be
considered legal nonconforming and shall be controlled by §§
152.120 through
152.125.
      (2)   Where any building, structure, or lot that legally existed on the
effective date of this zoning chapter does not meet all standards set forth in
this zoning chapter, such building, structure, or lot shall be considered legal
nonconforming and shall be controlled by §§
152.120 through
152.125.
   (D)   Applications filed prior to the effective date.
      (1)   Pending applications filed prior to the effective date.
         (a)   Complete applications for new developments or amendments
including, but not limited to site plan review and approval, conditional use
permits, and rezones filed prior to the effective date of this code may be
approved under the provisions of the zoning code previously in effect (12-28-
2018 Zoning Ordinance No. 648-18).
         (b)   Applicants with a complete application that has been submitted
for approval, but upon which no final action has been taken prior to the
effective date of this zoning chapter, may request review under this zoning
chapter by a written request to the Director.
         (c)   If the applicant fails to comply with any applicable required
period for submittal or other procedural requirements in accordance with the
zoning chapter in effect on the date the application was deemed complete, the
application shall expire, and subsequent applications shall be subject to the
requirements of this zoning chapter.
      (2)   Planning applications filed after the effective date. All
applications for new developments including, but not limited to, site plan
review and approval, conditional use permits, and zone changes, filed on or
after the effective date of this zoning chapter, including modifications and
amendments, shall conform to the provisions of this zoning chapter.
   (E)   Developments and permits approved prior to the effective date of April
22, 2023 with approvals.
      (1)   Conditional use permits and final site plans approved prior to the
effective date. An applicant who has received approval for a conditional use
permit or a final site plan prior to the effective date of this chapter may
file an application for a building permit, even if the use or site plan does
not fully comply with the provisions of this chapter. If a building permit
application is not filed within one year of the date of approval, it shall
expire. No time extensions shall be permitted. Any re-application for an
expired project approval shall meet the standards in effect at the time of re-
application.
      (2)   Preliminary subdivision plat approved prior to effective date. A
preliminary plat approved prior to the effective date of this chapter may file
an application for a final subdivision plat and improvement plan approval, even
if the subdivision does not fully comply with the provisions of this chapter,
within 18 months as provided by the general development and subdivision
regulations, from the date of preliminary plat approval, or the preliminary
plat shall expire. No time extensions shall be permitted. Subsequent
preliminary plat applications shall comply with this zoning chapter and the
city general development and subdivision regulations.
      (3)   Building permit issued prior to effective date. Any building,
structure, or sign for which a building permit has been issued or for which a
complete building permit or sign permit application has been filed prior to the
effective date of this chapter, may be constructed and completed in conformance
with the permit and other applicable approvals, permits and conditions, even if
such building, structure or sign does not fully comply with this chapter. If
construction is not commenced in compliance with the applicable permit terms,
the Building Official may grant an extension in compliance with the provisions
of the building code. If the building, structure, or sign has not been
completed before the building permit or any extension of the permit expires,
then the building, structure, or sign shall be constructed, completed or
occupied only in compliance with this chapter.
   (F)   Waiver of requirements.
      (1)   Properties for which the owner believes the adoption of this
chapter has a direct effect upon and has caused a diminution of value. (A.R.S.
§ 12-1134)
      (2)   If a property owner has reason to believe the adoption of this
chapter and the requirement(s) related to this chapter have directly reduced
the fair market value of their property, a waiver of requirements from this
chapter, in favor of all requirements of the zoning chapter in effect before
April 22, 2023, may be applied. Actions establishing the initiation of this
waiver must be made before April 22, 2026.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.008 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Zoning land use regulations. Where uncertainty exists regarding the
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or its application to a
specific site, the Director shall determine the intent of the provision as
defined under §
152.074. The determination of the Director may be appealed in accordance with
the provisions of §
152.086(K).
   (B)   Official zoning map. Where uncertainty exists regarding the boundary
of a zoning district, the provisions and rules set forth in §
152.025(C) shall apply.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.009 SEVERABILITY.
   If any portion of this code is held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a
court of competent jurisdiction, that portion is to be deemed severed from this
code and in no way affects or diminishes the validity of the remainder of this
code.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 152.025 ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   This chapter establishes the zoning districts applied to property
within the city, determines how the zoning districts are applied on the zoning
map, and identifies general permitted land uses and development standards for
each zoning district.
   (B)   Zoning Districts established. To classify and separate the uses of
land, buildings, and structures for implementing the city zoning chapter, the
city is divided into the zoning and overlay districts listed below.
Table 2.1-1: Zoning Districts Established
Abbreviation Zoning District Legacy Zoning
Table 2.1-1: Zoning Districts Established
Abbreviation Zoning District                 Legacy Zoning
Residential Districts                         
RE-2A        Residential- Estate/Two-Acre     
RE-1A        Residential -Estate/One-Acre     
R1-8         Single-Family Residential 8,000  
R1-7         Single-Family Residential 7,000  
R1-5         Single-Family Residential 5,000  
R-2          Small-Lot Residential 2          
RM           Multi-Family Residential 3       
MHS          Manufactured Home                
MHP          Manufactured Home Park           
Commercial Districts and Mixed-Use Overlay    
C-1          Neighborhood Commercial          
C-2          Community Commercial             
CBD          Central Business District        
MU           Mixed-Use Overlay                
Business and Industrial Districts             
BP           Business Park                    
SC           Service Commercial               
IP           Industrial Park                  
 
Table 2.1-1: Zoning Districts Established (Cont’d) 
Abbreviation Zoning District Legacy Zoning
Table 2.1-1: Zoning Districts Established (Cont’d) 
Abbreviation Zoning District                       Legacy Zoning
Planned Area Development District                   
PAD          Planned Area Development               
Airport Districts                                   
AP           Airport Property                       
Special Districts                                   
FL           Federal Lands District                 
POS          Parks/Open Space                       
ARSD         Airport Residential Special District   
HSRSD        Hillside Residential Special District  
PQP          Public/Quasi-Public District           
UNDV         Undevelopable District                 
 
   (C)   Map established.
      (1)   The location and boundaries of the zoning districts established by
this code shall be designated upon the official "Zoning Map of the City of
Page." The zoning map, together with all data shown on the map and all
amendments hereafter adopted, is by reference made a part of this code.
      (2)   The official zoning map shall be located in and maintained by the
Planning and Zoning Department and made available for inspection at City Hall.
         (a)   Any changes to the official zoning map shall be considered an
amendment to the official zoning map and filed in accordance with §
152.090.
         (b)   The official zoning map may, from time to time, be republished
to delineate any change of zoning approved pursuant to §
152.090 or any other amendments thereto.
   (D)   Boundary determination. Where uncertainty exists concerning the
boundaries of any zoning district shown on the official zoning map, the
following rules shall apply:
      (1)   Where zoning district boundaries are indicated as approximately
following street or alley center lines, such center lines shall be construed to
be the district boundary.
      (2)   Where zoning district boundaries are so indicated that they
approximately follow property lines, such property lines shall be construed to
be the district boundary.
      (3)   Where zoning district boundaries divide a lot or parcel, the zoning
boundary shall be determined by using the scale of the zoning map, unless
indicated by legal description with distance and bearing or other dimension.
      (4)   Where existing development has occurred across zoning lines, zoning
for the entire parcel shall be that which is applied to the largest portion of
the property.
      (5)   Where a public street, alley, open space, railroad, or utility
right-of-way is officially vacated or abandoned, the property that was formerly
in the right-of-way will be included within the zoning district of the
adjoining property on either side of the centerline of the vacated or abandoned
right-of-way or easement, or be considered for public use.
      (6)   In case of doubt or disagreement concerning the exact location of a
district line, determination shall lie with the Director as defined under §
152.074. The determination of the Director may be appealed in accordance with
the provisions of §
152.086(K).
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.026 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   General purpose. Residential zoning districts are primarily intended
to create, maintain and promote the residential character and nature of
neighborhoods which are comprised of a range of compatible densities to
accommodate the desired physical appearance of the city. These districts
primarily accommodate residential uses, however some nonresidential uses are
also allowed to provide public facilities necessary to create a healthy and
safe environment to live in.
   (B)   Residential districts.
      (1)   Residential-Estate/Two-Acre (RE-2A). This district is intended to
provide an open, country residential atmosphere on large lots where modular and
conventional homes are allowed. Lots are typically larger than in the developed
portion of the city and include keeping large livestock. Single-family detached
homes in this district shall not include manufactured or mobile homes.
      (2)   Residential-Estate/One-Acre District (RE-1A). This district is
similar in intent and purpose to the Residential-Estate/Two-Acre (RE-2A)
District, except the lot sizes are smaller. In general, the intent is to allow
conventional and modular single-family detached housing with large livestock.
Single-family homes in this district shall not include manufactured or mobile
homes.
      (3)   Single-Family Residential-8/8,000 Sq. Ft. (R1-8). This district is
intended to promote and protect the single-family character of a neighborhood
where modular and conventional homes are allowed, and to prohibit incompatible
activities. Development in this district should afford non-motorized linkages
to community and neighborhood services such as schools, parks and shopping
areas. All public utilities and facilities must be present. Certain essential
and complementary uses are permitted under conditions and standards which
ensure their compatibility with the character of the district. Single-family
homes in this district shall not include manufactured or mobile homes.
      (4)   Single-Family Residential-7/7,000 Sq. Ft. (R1-7). This district is
intended to provide for a modular and conventional single-family dwelling unit
environment while providing a denser urban development. Development in this
district should afford non-motorized linkages to community and neighborhood
services such as schools, parks and shopping areas. All public utilities and
facilities must be present. Certain essential and complementary uses are
permitted under conditions and standards which ensure their compatibility with
the character of the district. Single-family homes in this district shall not
include manufactured or mobile homes.
      (5)   Single-Family Residential-5/5,000 Sq. Ft. (R1-5). This district is
intended to provide smaller lot sizes than other single-family districts while
maintaining a single-family neighborhood character. Development in this
district should afford non-motorized linkages to community and neighborhood
services such as schools, parks and shopping areas. All public utilities and
facilities must be present. Certain essential and complementary uses are
permitted under conditions and standards which ensure their compatibility with
the character of the district. Single-family homes in this district may include
existing and future manufactured homes and conventional and modular homes.
      (6)   Small-Lot Residential-2/3,500 Sq. Ft. Single and 7,000 Sq. Ft.
Duplex (R-2). The intent of this district is to provide for neighborhoods
comprised of a mixture of conventional and modular single-family detached homes
and small-lot residential dwellings such as duplexes, townhomes, or patio homes
together with schools, parks, trails and other public facilities. This district
may serve as a transition between higher-density multi-family residential
districts and low-density single-family residential districts. Single-family
homes in this district shall not include manufactured or mobile homes.
      (7)   Multiple Family Residential-3 (RM). This district allows the
broadest range of multi-family residential types and is intended for locations
closer to primary intensity generators, such as large commercial developments,
and to serve as a buffer zone between commercial and lower density residential.
The district requires direct connection to higher volume roadways and all
public utilities. Provisions for various modes of travel and pedestrian
linkages are also critical.
      (8)   Manufactured Home Subdivision (MHS). The intent of this district is
to provide an alternative single-family living style for those families who
choose a manufactured home environment. Development in this district consists
of subdivisions where residents own individual lots. The development standards
of this district are intended to be consistent with the standards for other
single-family neighborhoods developed at similar densities. All public
utilities and facilities must be present.
      (9)   Manufactured Home Park (MHP). The intent of this district is to
provide an alternative single-family living style for those families who choose
a manufactured home environment, but lease or rent spaces rather than own
individual lots. Campgrounds/RV Parks developed in a safe and attractive manner
may also be located in this district. The development standards of this
district are intended to be consistent with the standards for other single-
family neighborhoods developed at similar densities. All public utilities and
facilities must be present.
   (C)   Residential use standards.
Table 2.1-1. The Table of Allowed Uses for Residential Districts lists land
uses permitted by right (P), permitted with approval of a conditional use
permit (C) in accordance with §
152.091, or prohibited in each zoning district (NP). The Use Table also
includes references to additional use-specific standards that may be applicable
to that use. The organization headings and individual abbreviations utilized in
the table are explained as follows:
      (1)   Use category. The "use categories" are intended merely as an
organizational tool and are not regulatory. These use categories simply help to
organize the list of "specific use types" into common groupings for ease of
reference.
      (2)   Specific use type. The "specific use types" are regulatory and
function as the basis for defining present and future land uses that are
appropriate in each zoning district. Rather than list every possible individual
land use type, this list classifies individual land uses and activities into
specific use types based on common functional, product or physical
characteristics, such as the type and amount of activity, the type of customers
or residents, how goods or services are sold or delivered, and site conditions.
Further definitions of each specific use type can be found in §§
152.035 through
152.037.
      (3)   Use-specific standards. Section numbers listed in the "Supplemental
Use Regulations" column denote the location of additional regulations that are
applicable to the specific use type; however, provisions in other sections of
this chapter may also apply.
      (4)   Non-specified uses. When a use cannot be reasonably classified into
a specific use type, or appears to fit into multiple specific use types, the
Director is authorized to determine the most similar and most appropriate
specific use type based on the actual or projected characteristics of the
individual use or activity (including but not limited to size, scale, operating
characteristics and external impacts) in relationship to the specific use type
definitions provided in §§
152.035 through
152.037. Appeal of the Director's decision may be made to the Board of
Adjustment following the procedures under §
152.086(K).
Table 2.2-1: Table of Allowed Uses for Residential Districts
                        P = Permitted Use C = Conditional Use NP = Not
                        Permitted
Use            Specific Residential Zoning Districts
Category    Use Type RE- RE-                                    Supplemen
                        2A  1A  R-8 R1- 7 R1- 5 R- 2 R M M HS M HP tal Use
                                                                   Regulations
Table 2.2-1: Table of Allowed Uses for Residential Districts
                            P = Permitted Use C = Conditional Use NP = Not
                            Permitted
Use            Specific Use Residential Zoning Districts
Category    Type         RE- RE-     R1- R1-                    Supplemen
                            2A  1A  R-8 7   5   R- 2 R M M HS M HP tal Use
                                                                   Regulations
               Assisted                                            §
               Living       NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  N P  C   NP   NP   152.045(D)
               Center
               Assisted                                            §
               Living Home  P   P   P   P   P   P    C   NP   NP   152.045(D)
                                                                   (1)
               Child Care,  P   P   P   P   P   P    P   P    P    §
               Home                                                152.045(K)
               Dwelling,    NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  P    P   NP   NP    
               Duplex
               Dwelling,                                           §
               Manufactured NP  NP  NP  NP  P   N P  N P P    P    152.045(O)
               Home
Residential    Dwelling,    P   P   P   P   P   P    N P P    C     
Use Category   Modular Home
               Dwelling,    NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  N P  P   NP   NP    
               Multi-Family
               Dwelling,
               Principal &
               Accessory    P   P   P   P   P   P    P   P    P     
               Single-
               Family
               Detached
               Group Care   P   P   P   P   P   N P  N P NP   NP   §
               Home                                                152.045(N)
               Manufactured NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  N P  N P NP   P    §
               Home, Park                                          152.045(P)
               Nursing Home NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  N P  C   NP   NP   §
                                                                   152.045(D)
               Resident     P   P   P   P   P   P    N P NP   NP   §
               Care Home                                           152.045(W )
               Vacation                                            §
               Home Rentals P   P   P   P   P   P    P   P    P    152.045(B
                                                                   B)
               Assembly
               Hall/        NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  N P  C   C    C
               Auditorium
               Campground / NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  N P  N P NP   C    §
               RV Park                                             152.045(I)
               Child Care,  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  C    C   NP   NP   §
               Center                                              152.045(J)
               College or   NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  N P  C   NP   NP   §
               University                                          152.045(X)
               Community
               Playfields   P   P   P   P   P   P    P   P    P
               and Parks
               Community
               Recreation   P   P   P   P   P   P    P   P    P
               Center
               Country
Public and     Club,        P   P   P   P   P   P    P   P    P
Semi- Public   Private
Use Category   Fraternal or
               Social Club, NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  C    C   NP   NP
               Nonprofit
               Library      P   P   P   P   P   P    P   NP   NP
               Public
               Safety       P   P   P   P   P   P    P   P    P
               Facility
               Religious    P   P   P   P   P   P    P   P    P    §
               Assembly                                            152.045(V)
               School,      C   C   NP  NP  NP  N P  C   NP   NP   §
               Boarding                                            152.045(X)
               School,                                             §
               Public or    C   C   C   C   C   C    C   NP   NP   152.045(X)
               Private, K-8
               School,
               Public or    P   P   P   P   P   P    P   P    P    §
               Private, 9-                                         152.045(X)
               12
               Social
              Service      NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP   C   NP   NP    
               Facility
               Solar
               Generation   C   NP  NP  NP  NP  N P  N P NP   NP    
               Facility
               Utility
               Facility and C   NP  NP  NP  NP  N P  N P NP   NP    
               Service
               Yard, Major
               Utility
               Facility,    P   P   P   P   P   P    P   P    P     
               Minor
               Wireless
               Communicati
               on Facility                                         §
               (WCF)        C   C   C   C   C   C    C   C    C    152.045(C
               (including                                          C)
               tower and
               supporting
               facilities)
               Agriculture, P   C   NP  NP  NP  N P  N P NP   NP    
               General
Agriculture    Market       P   P   C   C   C   C    C   C    NP    
Use Category   Garden
               Ranching,    P   C   NP  NP  NP  N P  N P NP   NP    
               Commercial
               Farmers
               Market,      C   C   NP  NP  NP  N P  N P NP   NP    
               Permanent
Commercial Use Feed Store   C   NP  NP  NP  NP  N P  N P NP   NP    
Category       Golf Course, C   C   C   C   C   C    C   C    C     
               Unlighted
               Parking Lots
               and Parking  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  N P  P   NP   NP    
               Structure
 
   (D)   Residential development standards. The following development standards
identified in Table 2.2-2 apply to all principal uses and structures in
residential districts, except as otherwise expressly stated in this code.
General exceptions to these regulations and rules for measuring compliance can
be found in §§
152.035 through
152.037. Regulations governing accessory uses and structures can be found in §
152.046.
Table 2.2-2: Residential District Development Standards
                                                                                                                                                                         Lot                                   Lot       Building
                                                                                                                                                               Density,  Dimensions,    Setbacks               Coverage, Height,
                                                                                                                                                               Maxim um  minimum                               maxim um  maximu m
                                                                                                                                              Zoning District  (dwelling                                       (%)       (feet)
                                                                                                                                                               units/gr  Lot     Lot    Front
                                                                                                                                                               oss acre) size    Width  (fee  Side      Rear
                                                                                                                                                                         (square (feet) t)    (feet)    (feet)
                                                                                                                                                                         feet)   [1]
                                                                                                                                              RE-2A            -         87,120  200    25    25        25     20        35
                                                                                                                                              RE-1A            -         43,560  150    25    25        25     25        35
                                                                                                               20[2  5 w/15
 Single-Family Residential                                                                                                               R1-8             -         8,000   70     ]     aggregate 10     40        30
                                                                                                                                                                                              [4]
                                                                                                                                                                                        20[2  5 w/15
                                                                                                                                              R1-7             -         7,000   60     ]     aggregate 10     45        30
                                                                                                                                                                                              [4]
                                                                                                                                              R1-5             -         5,000   50     15[3  5[4]      10     -         30
                                                                                                                                                                                        ]
                                                                                                                                                                         3 Acre
                                                                                                                                              MHS              10        Site    40     15[3  5[4]      10     45        30
                                                                                                                                                                         5,000          ]
                                                                                                                                                                         lot
                                                                                                                                                               10        3 Acre
                                                                                                                                                  Manufactured (spaces/  Site    40     15[3  5[4]      10     50        30
                                                                                                                                                  Home Park    gross     3,000          ]                      (space)
                                                                                                                                              MPH              acre)     space
                                                                                                                                                               18        2 Acre
                                                                                                                                                  Campground/  (spaces/  Site    28     10    5         5      -         20
                                                                                                                                                  RV Park      gross     1,200
Multi-Family Residential                                                                                                                                       acre)     space
                                                                                                                                                  Single-                               15[3
                                                                                                                                                  Family       8         3,500   35     ]     5[4]      10     50        30
                                                                                                                                              R-2 Detached
                                                                                                                                                  All other    12        7,000   -      20    15[5]     15[5 ] 50[7]     30
                                                                                                                                                  uses                   Site[6]
                                                                                                                                              RM               12 (min)  7,000   -      20    15[5]     15[5 ] 50[7]     35
                                                                                                                                                                         Site[6]
 
 
Table 2.2-2: Residential District Development Standards (Cont’d)
      [1]   Lot width is measured at front setback.
      [2]   Front setback shall be 15 feet for side entry garages and/or covered front
porch.
      [3]   Front setback shall be 20 feet for front entry garages and carports.
      [4]   For all corner lots adjacent to a public right-of-way, the minimum street
side yard setback shall be ten feet.
      [5]   Zero feet for dwelling units with common walls.
      [6]   For Single-Family Attached uses within a common site, the minimum
individual lot/dwelling unit size shall be 1,500 square feet.
      [7]   For Single-Family Attached uses within a common site, the maximum
individual lot/dwelling unit coverage shall be 95%.
 
   (E)   Single-family Residential design guidelines. The purpose of this
section is to help provide a pleasant residential environment for all single-
family dwelling units and subdivisions. Multi-family design guidelines are
defined under §
152.027 Commercial and Mixed-Use Overlay Districts.
      (1)   Utilities. All on-site and off-site electric and communication
utility lines shall be placed underground. To allow for future connections and
extensions, all underground utilities shall be extended a minimum of two feet
(2'-0") beyond the farthest property boundary, to prevent damaging existing
pavement or landscaping when future utility extensions are made.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 671-20, passed 5-27-2020; Ord. 703-23,
passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.027 COMMERCIAL AND OVERLAY DISTRICTS.
   (A)   General purpose. The purpose of the Commercial and Mixed-Use Districts
is to provide for a variety of commercial and select residential areas, each
suited to specific retail, service, entertainment, and residential uses in
order to maintain compatibility with adjacent uses. These districts are
intended to provide attractive, well-designed developments that are
appropriately located along primary roadways and pedestrian facilitates to
serve large volumes of customers.
   (B)   Commercial and Mixed-Use Overlay Districts.
      (1)   Neighborhood Commercial District (C-1). This district is intended
to provide convenient locations for small scale retail or service-related
establishments. These locations are to provide services and goods primarily for
the surrounding neighborhood and are not intended to draw customers from the
entire community. The location of uses in this district are limited to the
intersection of a collector street and local street or greater.
      (2)   Community Commercial District (C-2). This district is intended to
provide a range of general commercial needs, such as: major business groupings;
regional size shopping centers; retail sales and personal, professional and
business services, excluding business parks, that meet the daily demands of the
overall larger community and traveling public. This district may also act as a
transition between high-density, centrally located commercial activities
customarily found in the Central Business District, and multi-family
residential districts. Businesses in this district require high visibility,
maintain sufficient parking, are buffered from traditional residential
neighborhoods, and are predominantly located in commercial strips or nodes
located beside or at intersections of major highways and arterials. This
district does allow a Mixed-Use Overlay as a Conditional Use, as shown in
Table 2.3-1, and in accordance with §
152.027(B)(5).
      (3)   Central Business District (CBD). This district provides an office,
retail and business services area that serves the entire community. Uses are
allowed which complement the central downtown area and are suited to high
vehicular and pedestrian traffic areas. The CBD should also be a focal point
for meeting the needs of tourists visiting the community and provide a strong
community identity through design standards and main street activities. This
district does allow a Mixed-Use Overlay as a Conditional Use, as shown in
Table 2.3-1, and in accordance with §
152.027(B)(5).
      (4)   Mixed-Use Overlay District (MU).
         (a)   This overlay district is intended to require both residential
and non-residential uses, either vertically or horizontally, and to promote
site and building design that accommodates multimodal travel that creates
opportunities to live and work within the central downtown area.
         (b)   The mixed-use overlay district shall be utilized as an overlay
zone. Land classified in the mixed-use overlay district shall be limited to
those areas located within the CBD, C-2 and SC zoning districts. Property so
classified shall be identified on the zoning map by both the underlying CBD, C-
2 or SC district and the mixed-use overlay designation. The mixed-use
regulations set forth in this section shall be in addition to those regulations
set forth in the underlying CBD, C-2 and SC district. In the event of a
conflict between the provisions of the mixed-use overlay district and the
provisions of the CBD, C-2 or SC district, the provisions of the mixed-use
overlay district shall prevail. If the mixed-use overlay district is silent in
relation to any development standard, the development standard identified in
the underlying CBD, C-2 or SC zone shall prevail.
   (C)   Commercial use and mixed-use overlay standards. 
Table 2.3-1: Table of Allowed Uses for Commercial and Mixed-Use Overlay
Districts, lists land uses permitted by right (P), permitted with approval of a
conditional use permit (C) in accordance with §
152.091, or prohibited in each zoning district (NP). The Use Table also
includes references to additional use-specific standards that may be applicable
to that use. The organization headings and individual abbreviations utilized in
the table are explained as follows:
      (1)   Use category. The "use categories" are intended merely as an
organizational tool and are not regulatory. These use categories simply help to
organize the list of "specific use types" into common groupings for ease of
reference.
      (2)   Specific use type. The "specific use types" are regulatory and
function as the basis for defining present and future land uses that are
appropriate in each zoning district. Rather than list every possible individual
land use type, this list classifies individual land uses and activities into
specific use types based on common functional, product or physical
characteristics, such as the type and amount of activity, the type of customers
or residents, and how goods or services are sold or delivered and site
conditions. Further definitions of each specific use type can be found in §§
152.035 through
152.037.
      (3)   Use-specific standards. Section numbers listed in the "Supplemental
Use Regulations" column denote the location of additional regulations that are
applicable to the specific use type; however, provisions in other sections of
this chapter may also apply.
      (4)   Non-specified uses. When a use cannot be reasonably classified into
a specific use type, or appears to fit into multiple specific use types, the
Director is authorized to determine the most similar and thus most appropriate
specific use type based on the actual or projected characteristics of the
individual use or activity (including but not limited to size, scale, operating
characteristics and external impacts) in relationship to the specific use type
definitions provided in §§
152.035 through
152.037. Appeal of the Director's decision may be made to the Board of
Adjustment following the procedures under §
152.086(K).
Table 2.3-1: Table of Allowed Uses for Commercial and Mixed-Use Overlay
Districts
                               P = Permitted Use C = Conditional Use
Use Category Specific Use Type NP = Not Permitted
                               Commercial and Mixed-Use Zoning Districts
                               C-1 C-2    CMU Supplemental Use Regulations
Table 2.3-1: Table of Allowed Uses for Commercial and Mixed-Use Overlay
Districts
                                          P = Permitted Use C = Conditional Use
                                          NP = Not Permitted
Use Category        Specific Use Type     Commercial and Mixed-Use Zoning
                                          Districts
                                          C-1 C-2    CMU Supplemental Use
                                                            Regulations
                    Assisted Living       P   P      CP  §
                    Center                                  152.045(D)
                    Boarding/Shelter Care NP  P      NNP  
                    Dwelling, Live/Work   P   P      CP   
                    Mixed-Use Overlay     NP  C      C  §
Residential Use                                             152.027(B)(5)
Category            Dwelling, Multi-      NP  C      CP   
                    Family
                    Nursing Home          P   P      CP  §
                                                            152.045(D)
                    Vacation Home Rentals NP  NP     CP  §
                                                            152.045(BB)
                    Arboretum or          NP  P      PP   
Public and Semi-    Botanical Garden
Public Use Category Assembly Hall/        NP  P      PP   
                    Auditorium
                    Bus Terminal          NP  C      CC   
                    Campground/RV Park    NP  P      NNP §
                                                            152.045(I)
                    Cemetery              NP  C      NNP  
                    Child Care, Center    C   P      PP  §
                                                            152.045(J)
                    College or University NP  P      PP  §
                                                            152.045(X)
                    Community Playfields  NP  P      PP   
                    and Parks
                    Community Recreation  P   P      PP   
                    Center
                    Crematorium or        NP  P      NNP  
                    Funeral Parlor
                    Fraternal or Social   C   P      PP   
                    Club, Nonprofit
                    Government Offices    P   P      PP   
                    and Civic Buildings
                    Health Care/Medical   NP  P      PP   
                    Facility or Clinic
                    Hospitals             NP  P      PP   
                    Library               P   P      PP   
                    Museum, Cultural      NP  P      PP   
                    Facility
                    Public Safety         P   P      PP   
                    Facility
                    Religious Assembly    P   P      PP  §
                                                            152.045(V)
                    School, Boarding      C   C      CC  §
                                                            152.045(X)
                    School, Public or     C   C      CC  §
                    Private, K-8                            152.045(X)
                    School, Public or     C   C      CC  §
                    Private, 9-12                           152.045(X)
                    Social Service        C   C      CC   
                    Facility
                    Utility Facility and  C   C      CC   
                    Service Yard, Major
                    Utility Facility,     P   P      PP   
                    Minor
                    Wireless
                    Communication
                    Facility (WCF)        C   C      CC  §
                    (including Tower and                    152.045(CC)
                    Supporting
                    Facilities)
                    Alcoholic Beverages,  NP  P      PP   
                    Retail Sale
                    Animal Kennel/Shelter NP  P      NNP §
                                                            152.045(C)
                    Animal, Hospital/     NP  C      CNP §
                    Veterinarian                            152.045(C)
                    Automobile/Boat,      NP  P      PP  §
                    Rentals                                 152.045(G)
Commercial Use      Automobile/Boat,      NP  P      NNP §
Category            Repair Minor                            152.045(F)
                    Automobile/Boat,      NP  P      NNP §
                    Sales and Leasing                       152.045(G)
                    Bar, Lounge, or       NP  P      PP   
                    Tavern
                    Business Services     C   P      PP   
                    Car Wash              NP  P      NNP  
                    Coffee Shop/Cafe      P   P      PP   
                    Coffee Shop/Cafe with NP  P      CC  §
                    Drive Through                           152.045(M)
                    Commercial            NP  P      CC   
                    Entertainment, Indoor
                    Commercial
                    Entertainment,        NP  C      CC   
                    Outdoor
                    Convenience Store     P   P      PP  §
                                                            152.045(L)
                    Farmers Market,       C   P      PP   
                    Permanent
                    Feed Store            C   P      NNP  
                    Financial Institution C   P      PP   
                    Financial                               §
                    Institution, with     NP  P      CP  152.045(M)
                    Drive Through
                    Fitness and Sports    C   P      PP   
                    Center
                    General Personal      P   P      PP   
                    Services
                    General Personal                        §
                    Services with Drive   NP  P      CP  152.045(M)
                    Through
                    General Recreation,   NP  P      PP   
                    Indoor
                    Hotel or Motel        NP  P      PP   
                    Instructional
                    Services or Trade     NP  P      CC   
                    Schools
                    Microbrewery, Craft                     §
                    Distillery or Tasting NP  P      PP  152.045(R)
                    Room
                    Movie Theater         NP  P      PP   
                    Nightclub             NP  C      CC   
                    Non-Chartered
                    Financial Institution NP  P      CC   
                    (Check Cashing)
                    Nursery, Commercial   NP  C      NNP  
                    Office Business or    C   P      PP   
                    Professional
                    Parking Lots and      NP  P      PP   
                    Parking Structure
                    Restaurant            C   P      PP   
                    Restaurant, with      NP  P      CC  §
                    Drive Through                           152.045(M)
                    Retail, General       P   P      PP   
                    Retail, General with  NP  P      CC  §
                    Drive Through                           152.045(M)
                    Retail, Large         NP  P      CC   
                    Retail, Smoke/Vape    NP  P      PP   
                    Shop
                    Self-Storage, Indoor  NP  P      NNP §
                                                            152.045(Y)
                    Service Station       NP  P      PP  §
                                                            152.045(Z)
                    Service Station with  NP  P      CC  §
                    Car Wash                                152.045(Z)
                    Tour Services         NP  P      PP  §
                                                            152.045(AA)
                    Building Materials    NP  P      CC   
                    Sales, Indoor Retail
Industrial Use      Building Materials
Category            Sales, Outdoor or     NP  C      NNP  
                    Wholesale
                    Heavy Rental, Outdoor NP  C      NNP  
 
   (D)   Commercial and mixed-use development standards. The following
development standards identified in Table 2.3-2 apply to all principal uses and
structures in commercial and mixed-use overlay districts, except as otherwise
expressly stated in this code.
Table 2.3-2: Commercial and Mixed-Use Overlay Districts Development
Standards
Zoning District C-1 C-2    CMU
Table 2.3-2: Commercial and Mixed-Use Overlay Districts Development
Standards
Zoning District                           C-1    C-2      CBD MU
Lot Dimensions,   Size of Use or User     25,000 -        -   7,000 (min)
maximum           (square feet)
Residential Density, minimum              X      X        w/ C3 units
                  Front, (feet)           15     20[1]    15[20[1]
                  Side, (feet)            10[2]  15[2]    15[20[1]
                  Side, (feet)            20[1]  30[1]    30[130[1][3]
Setbacks, minimum Adjacent to Residential
                  Rear, (feet)            10     20       10[410[4]
                  Rear, (feet) Adjacent   20     30       30  30[3]
                  to Residential
Lot Coverage, maximum (%)                 35     50       -   -
Building Height, maximum (feet)           30     35       30  35[5]
      [1]   Front and side setback for street facing parking areas shall be
a minimum of 15 feet.
      [2]   Zero setbacks are permitted for structures if adjacent
structures also have zero setbacks and regulations of the building code in
force at the time of the review are met.
      [3]   Fifteen foot setbacks are permitted if adjacent parcel is zoned
RM.
      [4]   Rear setback can be reduced to five feet if adjacent to a public
alley.
      [5]   Building height may be increased to 45 feet for development that
contains vertical mixed-use with residential above ground floor commercial
uses.
 
   (E)   Commercial, mixed-use and multi-family site and architectural design
guidelines. The commercial, mixed-use and multi-family design guidelines
contained in this section have been established to: create an attractive and
functional setting along primary gateway roadway corridors; create and maintain
an efficient, functional, safe and pleasant built environment for residents and
visitors; and promote attractive, high quality development that will support
and enhance the greater community.
      (1)   Applicability.
         (a)   These requirements shall apply to development or renovation of
buildings within any Commercial, Mixed-Use Overlay, and Multi-Family Zoning
District. In the case of mixed-use buildings, the standards of this section and
the standards of §
152.045(E), shall both apply.
         (b)   These guidelines will be used as a framework for evaluating
development proposals and for commenting on the design aspects of those
proposed projects. The city subdivision regulations should also be referenced
for additional site design standards specifically applicable to multi-family
and commercial subdivision developments.
      (2)   Prohibited uses. The following uses are prohibited within any
Commercial and Mixed-Use Overlay Zoning District that has frontage along U.S.
Highway 89, Lake Powell Boulevard, Coppermine Road, and State Route 98:
         (a)   Adult entertainment businesses; and
         (b)   Heavy rental, outdoor.
      (3)   Architectural guidelines.
         (a)   Natural materials and deep earthtone colors are preferred, and
design elements should not consist primarily of metal, glass, plastic, highly
reflective materials and bright colors. Such materials may have limited
application in trim or accent areas but should not be predominant visual
elements of the building(s) or site improvements.
         (b)   Large bland monolithic facades or rooflines and repetition of
very simple details which become monotonous in character should be avoided.
Building elevations should create a unique character which is emphasized
through interesting architectural details or facade articulation in each
component. For example, windows may be arched or rectangular, bayed out or
recessed, have raised borders, awnings, planter boxes or shutters.
         (c)   All building facades should be designed with architecturally
finished materials, with the following recommended primary facade building
materials:
            1.   Modular masonry materials such as brick, block, and stone;
            2.   Precast concrete or aggregate panels with a decorative finish;
            3.   Stucco or stucco-like materials;
            4.   Wood, provided surfaces are finished for exterior use or wood
of proven exterior durability; or
            5.   Other materials as determined by the Director.
      (4)   Site design/orientation guidelines.
         (a)   Buildings, structures, open space areas and other features shall
be oriented to protect and/or enhance major vistas and panoramas that give
special emphasis to mountains, mesas, lake views, and special man-made or
natural landmarks.
         (b)   On-site pedestrian walks shall be provided to connect street
sidewalks to primary commercial and mixed-use building entries by the most
direct route practicable. Multi-building developments shall minimize auto/
pedestrian conflicts and maximize convenient pedestrian access between
buildings.
         (c)   Openings for vehicular uses, such as garage door bays used to
access vehicles into and out of a building for repair or storage, must be
located on facades that do not face the primary street.
      (5)   Circulation.
         (a)   The primary vehicular access into a multi-family project shall
be through an entry drive rather than a parking lot drive.
         (b)   Developments along ADOT controlled roadways shall complete a
traffic study analysis, including access needs, traffic control needs, highway
expansion needs, drainage management plan, and/or a cost sharing plan. ADOT
approval will be required as part of the development plan approval process.
         (c)   Access points along primary gateway roadways shall be placed and
designed in accordance with ADOT and/or city requirements.
      (6)   Utilities. All on and off-site electric and communication utility
lines shall be placed underground. To allow for future connections and
extensions, all underground utilities shall be extended a minimum of two feet
(2'-0") beyond the farthest property boundary, to prevent damaging existing
pavement or landscaping when future utility extensions are made.
   (F)   Additional development standards.
      (1)   Setback and height exceptions. See §§
152.035 through
152.037 for additional development and design regulations.
      (2)   Parking and loading requirements. See §
152.056 for additional development and design regulations.
      (3)   Landscaping and screening requirements. See §
152.057 for additional development and design regulations.
      (4)   Signage requirements. See §
152.058 for additional development and design regulations.
      (5)   Exterior lighting requirements. See §
152.059 for additional development and design regulations.
      (6)   Further reference, as appropriate, should be given to the city
International Building Codes (IBC), Fire Codes, Subdivision Regulations, and
the Floodplain Management ordinance.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.028 BUSINESS AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   General purpose. The purpose of the Business and Industrial Districts
is to provide areas that promote employment opportunities while also protecting
desired or established residential and commercial areas from the potential
objectionable influences these uses may create.
   (B)   Business and Industrial Districts.
      (1)   Business Park District (BP). This district is intended to provide
sites for a range of business research and business park uses, including office
and administrative uses, designed to be conducted wholly within enclosed
buildings. Light manufacturing uses conducted wholly indoors that complement
the business or research park use that are free from nuisance factors may be
permitted if pertinent to the primary use. This district encourages the
development of attractive buildings in a campus type setting on landscaped
sites which may be close to residential areas.
      (2)   Service Commercial District (SC). This district is intended to
allow more intense outdoor light manufacturing and business uses which are
compatible with the developed local economy. These uses generally require
unique services such as truck delivery, outdoor storage, major motor vehicle or
boat repair, or other activities or operations conducted outside an enclosed
building or structure. Because of the character and intensity of these uses,
this district requires public services and should be appropriately located on
primary roadways or near major highways. This district does allow a Mixed-Use
Overlay as a Conditional Use, as shown in
Table 2.4-1, and in accordance with §
152.027(B)(5).
      (3)   Industrial Park District (IP). The intent of this district is to
provide for heavier or more intense industrial uses in areas which do not
encroach on the community's residential environment. Uses in this district
generally include manufacturing and industrial activities that may generate
nuisances that cannot be adequately mitigated on site. The IP district is not
appropriate adjacent to any residential district.
   (C)   Business and industrial use standards. 
Table 2.4-1: Table of Allowed Uses for Business and Industrial Districts, lists
land uses permitted by right (P), permitted with approval of a conditional use
permit (C) in accordance with §
152.091, or prohibited in each zoning district (NP). The Use Table also
includes references to additional use-specific standards that may be applicable
to that use. The organization headings and individual abbreviations utilized in
the table are explained as follows:
      (1)   Use category. The "use categories" are intended merely as an
organizational tool and are not regulatory. These use categories simply help to
organize the list of "specific use types" into common groupings for ease of
reference.
      (2)   Specific use type. The "specific use types" are regulatory and
function as the basis for defining present and future land uses that are
appropriate in each zoning district. Rather than list every possible individual
land use type, this list classifies individual land uses and activities into
specific use types based on common functional, product or physical
characteristics; such as the type and amount of activity, the type of customers
or residents, and how goods or services are sold or delivered and site
conditions. Further definitions of each specific use type can be found in §§
152.035 through
152.037.
      (3)   Use-specific standards. Section numbers listed in the "Supplemental
Use Regulations" column denote the location of additional regulations that are
applicable to the specific use type; however, provisions in other sections of
this chapter may also apply.
      (4)   Non-specified uses. When a use cannot be reasonably classified into
a specific use type, or appears to fit into multiple specific use types, the
Director is authorized to determine the most similar and thus most appropriate
specific use type based on the actual or projected characteristics of the
individual use or activity (including but not limited to size, scale, operating
characteristics and external impacts) in relationship to the specific use type
definitions provided in §§
152.035 through
152.037. Appeal of the Director's decision may be made to the Board of
Adjustment following the procedures under §
152.086(K).
Table 2.4-1: Table of Allowed Uses for Business and Industrial Districts
                               P = Permitted Use C = Conditional Use NP = Not
Use Category Specific Use Type Permitted
                               Business and Industrial Zoning Districts
                               BP SC IP Supplemental Use Regulations
Table 2.4-1: Table of Allowed Uses for Business and Industrial Districts
                                                P = Permitted Use C =
                                                Conditional Use NP = Not
                                                Permitted
Use Category            Specific Use Type       Business and Industrial Zoning
                                                Districts
                                                BP SC IP Supplemental Use
                                                         Regulations
Residential Use         Dwelling, Live/Work     NP C  NP  
Category                Mixed-Use Overlay       NP C  NP §
                                                         152.027(B)(5)
                        Bus Terminal            P  P  P   
                        Campground/RV Park      NP C  NP §
                                                         152.045(I)
                        Cemetery                P  P  NP  
                        Crematorium or Funeral  P  P  NP  
                        Parlor
                        Government Offices and  P  P  P   
                        Civic Buildings
                        Hospitals               P  P  NP  
Public and Semi Public  Public Safety Facility  P  P  P   
Use Category            Religious Assembly      P  P  P  §
                                                         152.045(V)
                        Solar Generation        P  P  P   
                        Facility
                        Utility Facility and    C  C  P   
                        Service Yard, Major
                        Utility Facility, Minor P  P  P   
                        Wireless Communication
                        Facility (WCF)          P  P  P  §
                        (including Tower and             152.045(CC)
                        Supporting Facilities)
                        Adult Entertainment     NP NP P  §
                        Business                         152.045(B)
                        Animal Training         NP P  P  §
                                                         152.045(C)
                        Animal Kennel/Shelter   NP P  P  §
                                                         152.045(C)
                        Animal Hospital/        C  P  P  §
                        Veterinarian                     152.045(C)
                        Automobile/Boat,        P  P  NP §
                        Rentals                          152.045(G)
                        Automobile/Boat, Repair NP P  P  §
                        Major                            152.045(E)
                        Automobile/Boat, Repair P  P  P  §
                        Minor                            152.045(F)
                        Automobile/Boat, Sales  P  P  NP §
                        and Leasing                      152.045(G)
                        Bar, Lounge, or Tavern  P  P  C   
                        Business Services       P  P  C   
                        Car Wash                P  P  NP  
                        Commercial              P  P  NP  
                        Entertainment, Indoor
                        Commercial              C  C  P   
                        Entertainment, Outdoor
                        Convenience Store       P  P  P  §
                                                         152.045(L)
                        Farmers Market,         P  P  P   
                        Permanent
                        Feed Store              P  P  P   
                        Fitness and Sports      P  P  NP  
                        Center
                        Flea Market             P  P  P   
                        General Personal        C  P  NP  
                        Services
                        General Recreation,     P  P  C   
Commercial Use Category Indoor
                        General Recreation,     NP C  P   
                        Outdoor
                        Hotel or Motel          NP P  NP  
                        Instructional Services  P  P  P   
                        or Trade Schools
                        Medical Marijuana                §
                        Dispensary, Operation   NP C  NP 152.045(Q)
                        or Cultivation
                        Microbrewery or Craft   NP P  C  §
                        Distillery                       152.045(R)
                        Non-Chartered Financial
                        Institution (Check      NP P  NP  
                        Cashing)
                        Nursery, Commercial     NP P  P   
                        Office Business or      P  P  P   
                        Professional
                        Parking Lots and        P  P  P   
                        Parking Structure
                        Restaurant              P  P  P   
                        Restaurant, with Drive  P  P  P  §
                        Through                          152.045(M)
                        Retail, General         NP P  C   
                        Retail, General with    NP P  C  §
                        Drive Through                    152.045(M)
                        Retail, Large           C  P  NP  
                        Retail, Smoke/Vape Shop NP P  NP  
                        Retail, Pawn Shop       NP P  NP  
                        Self-Storage, Indoor    P  P  P  §
                                                         152.045(Y)
                        Service Station with    P  P  NP §
                        Car Wash                         152.045(Z)
                        Tour Services           P  P  P  §
                                                         152.045(AA)
                        Wholesale Establishment P  P  P   
                        Assembly, Light         P  P  P   
                        Auctions, Indoor        P  P  P   
                        Auto Wrecking and       NP NP P   
                        Salvage Yard
                        Building Materials      P  P  P   
                        Sales, Indoor Retail
                        Building Materials
                        Sales, Outdoor or       NP P  P   
                        Wholesale
                        Distribution Yard,      NP NP P   
                        Outdoor
                        Distribution/
                        Warehousing Center,     C  NP P   
                        Indoor
Industrial Use Category Heavy Rental, Outdoor   NP P  P   
                        Indoor Storage (Boat,   P  P  P  §
                        RV)                              152.045(F)(3)
                        Manufacturing, Heavy    NP NP P   
                        Manufacturing, Light    P  P  P   
                        Outside Storage (Boat,  NP C  P  §
                        RV)                              152.045(T)
                        Recycling Center        NP NP P   
                        Research Laboratory     P  P  P   
                        Resource Extraction     NP NP C   
                        Truck Stop              NP P  P   
                        Waste Facility,         NP NP C   
                        Landfill
                        Waste Facility,         NP NP C   
                        Transfer Station
                        Wholesale Establishment P  P  P   
 
   (D)   Business and industrial development standards. The following
development standards identified in Table 2.4-2 apply to all principal uses and
structures in Business and Industrial Districts, except as otherwise expressly
stated in this code. General exceptions to these regulations and rules for
measuring compliance can be found in §§
152.035 through
152.037. Regulations governing accessory uses and structures can be found in §
152.046.
Table 2.4-2: Business and Industrial Districts Development Standards
Zoning District BP SC IP
Table 2.4-2: Business and Industrial Districts Development Standards
Zoning District                           BP    SC    IP
Lot Dimensions,   Lot width (feet)        60    -     75
minimum
                  Front, (feet)           20[1] 20[1] 30[1]
                  Side, (feet)            15[2] 15[2] 20[1][2]
                  Side, (feet)           30[1] 50[1] NP
Setbacks, minimum Adjacent to Residential
                  Rear, (feet)            15    15    20
                  Rear, (feet)            30    50    75
                  Adjacent to Residential
Lot Coverage, maximum (%)                 50    60    -
Building Height, maximum (feet)           30    40    50
      [1]   Front and side setback for street facing parking areas shall be a
minimum of 15 feet.
      [2]   Zero setbacks are permitted for structures if adjacent structures
also have zero setbacks and regulations of the building code in force at the
time of the review are met.
 
   (E)   Business and industrial site and architectural design guidelines. The
business and industrial design guidelines contained in this section have been
established to: recognize the unique needs and characteristics of development
in business and industrial use settings; protect and promote long-term economic
vitality through the promotion of high quality development; and minimize
adverse impacts to existing neighborhoods and anticipated growth areas.
      (1)   Applicability.
         (a)   These requirements shall apply to development or renovation of
buildings within any Business and Industrial Zoning District, unless otherwise
specified within this section.
         (b)   These guidelines will be used as a framework for evaluating
development proposals and for commenting on the design aspects of those
proposed projects. The city general development and subdivision regulations
should also be referenced for additional site design standards specifically
applicable to industrial developments.
      (2)   Service Commercial (SC) Zoning District development guidelines. The
Service Commercial Zoning District allows for the placement of a wide range of
business and employment type uses. Given its service-related function, this
district is often found in close proximity to established residential
neighborhoods. For these reasons, there is a greater degree of attention given
to how this district relates to adjacent uses. The following concepts shall
serve as a framework to guide development within the Service Commercial Zoning
District.
         (a)   Screening adjacent to residential. Any uses in an SC Zoning
District which abuts or is across a street, alley or open space from a
residential use or zone shall provide a landscape buffer at least 15 feet in
width. The landscape buffer shall include a minimum of one spreading tree per
30 linear feet. A fence or wall having the opacity of a solid wall shall also
be installed on the residential side of the landscape buffer along all common
parcel boundaries. Cyclone or chain link fence shall not satisfy this
requirement.
      (3)   Industrial Park (IP) Zoning District developments adjacent to a
residential development or zoning district are prohibited.
      (4)   Properties with frontage along primary gateway roadway corridors.
Development or renovation of buildings within any Business and Industrial
Zoning District fronting onto U.S. Highway 89, Lake Powell Boulevard,
Coppermine Road, or State Route 98 shall adhere to these guidelines:
         (a)   Prohibited uses. The following uses are prohibited within any
Business and Industrial Zoning District fronting onto U.S. Highway 89, Lake
Powell Boulevard, Coppermine Road, and State Route 98:
            1.   Adult entertainment business;
            2.   Auto wrecking and salvage yard; and
            3.   Heavy rental, outdoor.
         (b)   Architectural guidelines.
            1.   Natural materials and deep earth tone colors are preferred,
and design elements should not consist primarily of metal, glass, plastic,
highly reflective materials and bright colors. Such materials may have limited
application in trim or accent areas but should not be predominant visual
elements of the building(s) or site improvements.
            2.   Large bland monolithic facades or rooflines and repetition of
very simple details which become monotonous in character should be avoided.
Building elevations should create a unique character which is emphasized
through interesting architectural details or facade articulation in each
component. For example, windows may be arched or rectangular, bayed out or
recessed, have raised borders, awnings, planter boxes or shutters.
            3.   All building facades should be designed with architecturally
finished materials, with the following recommended primary facade building
materials:
               a.   Modular masonry materials such as brick, block, and stone;
               b.   Precast concrete or aggregate panels with a decorative
finish;
               c.   Stucco or stucco-like materials;
               d.   Wood, provided surfaces are finished for exterior use or
proven for exterior durability; or
               e.   Other materials as determined by the Director.
         (c)   Site design/orientation guidelines.
            1.   Buildings, structures, open space areas and other features
shall be oriented to protect and/or enhance major vistas and panoramas that
give special emphasis to mountains, mesas, lake views, and special man-made or
natural landmarks.
            2.   Multi-building developments shall minimize auto/pedestrian
conflicts and maximize convenient pedestrian access between buildings.
            3.   Openings for vehicular uses, such as garage door bays used to
access vehicles into and out of a building for repair or storage, must be
located on facades that do not face the primary street.
         (d)   Circulation.
            1.   Developments along ADOT controlled roadways shall complete a
traffic study analysis, including access needs, traffic control needs, highway
expansion needs, drainage management plan, and/or a cost sharing plan. ADOT
approval will be required as part of the development plan approval process.
            2.   Access points along primary gateway roadways shall be placed
and designed in accordance with ADOT and/or city requirements.
   (F)   Additional development standards.
      (1)   Setback and height exceptions. See §§
152.035 through
152.037 for additional development and design regulations.
      (2)   Parking and loading requirements. See §
152.056 for additional development and design regulations.
      (3)   Landscaping and screening requirements. See §
152.057 for additional development and design regulations.
      (4)   Signage requirements. See §
152.058 for additional development and design regulations.
      (5)   Exterior lighting requirements. See §
152.059 for additional development and design regulations.
      (6)   Utilities. All on-site and off-site electric and communication
utility lines shall be placed underground. To allow for future connections and
extensions, all underground utilities shall be extended a minimum of two feet
(2'-0") beyond the farthest property boundary, to prevent damaging existing
pavement or landscaping when future utility extensions are made.
      (7)   Further reference, as appropriate, should be given to the city
International Building Codes (IBC), Fire Codes, Subdivision Regulations, and
the Floodplain Management ordinance.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023; Ord. 713-23,
passed 9-27-2023)
§ 152.029 PLANNED DEVELOPMENT (PD) DISTRICTS.
   On or after April 22, 2023, any request for a Planned Development (PD)
zoning district type or for modification or change in an approved PD zoning
district type shall be made pursuant to §
152.030.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.030 PLANNED AREA DEVELOPMENT (PAD) DISTRICT.
   (A)   Any request for a Planned Area Development (PAD) zoning district or
for modification or change in an approved PD zoning district shall be made
pursuant to this section.
   (B)   General purpose. A Planned Area Development (PAD) is intended to allow
an applicant maximum flexibility in exchange for a more creative approach to
land planning and building design that could not be achieved through strict
adherence to the terms of this code. PADs may be approved pursuant to the
procedure and approval criteria in §
152.090.
   (C)   Applicability.
      (1)   A PAD District shall conform to the general plan, all regulations
pertaining to land development within this code, the subdivision regulations
and all other rules, regulations, specifications and standards set forth in all
other applicable city codes, unless specific deviations are approved by the
City Council during the PAD approval process.
      (2)   The area for a PAD shall consist of a single parcel of land or a
contiguous group of parcels with a combined minimum size of five acres.
   (D)   Standards eligible for modification. Unless otherwise expressly
modified as part of the PAD approval process, PADs shall utilize the base
zoning districts and all applicable standards established in this code to
regulate all proposed uses and development. The City Council is authorized to
approve PADs that deviate from strict compliance with specified standards if
they determine that the resulting development satisfies the approval criteria
of division (E) below. The PAD standards may be more or less restrictive than
those in the code. PAD zoning may be used to:
      (1)   Specify the location of base zoning districts and define standards
for the modification of these locations within the specified PAD area.
      (2)   Define which uses permitted by right or by conditional use permit
within a base zoning district (as specified in
Tables 2.2-1,
2.3-1,
2.4-1, and
2.5-1) will be permitted within said PAD zoning districts. PAD zoning districts
may not include uses that are not permitted within a base zoning district but
may modify or define standards for the operation and performance of permitted
uses within PAD zoning districts.
      (3)   Define development standards pertaining to the size, dimensions,
height, lot coverage, placement, or setback of uses. However, the total number
of dwelling units in a PAD plan shall not exceed the maximum number permitted
by the general plan density for the total area of the PAD designated for
residential use.
      (4)   Specify the location, extent, and design standards for open space,
landscaping, amenities, screening, buffers, and signage.
      (5)   Specify the location and design of public/private streets, drives,
parking, pedestrian, and bikeways.
      (6)   Specify the timing, sequencing, and phasing of development,
including coordinating the type, location, and intensity of development
permitted with the construction and availability of public facilities and
services.
      (7)   Provide for the construction of public improvements and facilities
onsite or within public easements and rights-of-way abutting the site as
required to serve and benefit development within the PAD area or as may be
required to mitigate impacts resulting from the development on other properties
and uses outside of the PAD area.
   (E)   Approval criteria.
      (1)   Before approving a preliminary PAD, the Commission will ensure that
the application meets the following standards:
         (a)   Conformance to the general plan. The development must conform
with the objectives of the general plan.
         (b)   Balance and integration with the neighborhood. The design shall
be integrated and compatible with the neighborhood and shall strive to be in
harmony with the scale and bulk of surrounding properties.
         (c)   Adequacy of street network. The proposed streets are suitable
and adequate to carry anticipated traffic and that the density will not
generate traffic in such amounts to overload the street network outside of the
PAD area.
         (d)   Adequacy of infrastructure. The impact created by the
development can be accommodated by the existing infrastructure system (police
and fire protection, parks, schools, water supply, sanitary sewer, solid waste
disposal, etc.)
         (e)   Relationship to physical features. The location of buildings and
structures shall respect the natural terrain of the site and shall be
functionally integrated with any natural features of the landscape to include
the preservation of views and vistas.
         (f)   Environmental impacts. Management of environmental impacts,
including drainage, soils, and archaeological.
         (g)   Upon approval through §
152.090, the preliminary PAD shall be placed on file in the Planning Department
pending approval of the final PAD.
      (2)   (a)   Application for final PAD approval shall follow the
requirements of §
152.090 process and contain the following:
            1.   Final legal documents specifying control of common areas;
            2.   If applicable, a plat of the property as required by the
general development and subdivision regulations of the city and plan of
required documents; and
            3.   If applicable, assurance of construction and completion of
required public and private improvements in the form as specified in § 413 of
the General Development and Subdivision Regulations of the city.
         (b)   The final development plan shall include any changes,
alterations, additions or deletions requested by the Planning Commission and/or
City Council in its grant of Preliminary PAD approval. Except for these
modifications, the final PAD shall not deviate from the approved Preliminary
PAD.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.031 AIRPORT DISTRICTS.
   (A)   General purpose. The purpose of the airport districts is to promote
and develop compatibility between airport activity and the surrounding area in
the vicinity of the city municipal airport. These districts are designed to
prohibit potential hazards and maintain public health and safety in the
vicinity of the airport by minimizing exposure to crash hazards, electronic
interference that could deleteriously affect aircraft electronics, and high
noise levels generated by airport operations and to encourage future
development which is compatible with the continued operations of the airport.
   (B)   Airport Districts and overlay zones.
      (1)   Airport Property District (AP). It is the intent of this district
to encourage utilization patterns which promote viable and long-term growth of
the city municipal airport and of airport-related business and industry.
Utilization and development patterns must be amenable to regulations, purposes
and directions of the city Airport Master Plan plus all applicable federal,
state and local laws, ordinances and regulations.
   (C)   Airport use standards.
      (1)   The following airport related uses shall be permitted within the AP
zoning district:
         (a)   Airport structures and facilities that are necessary for the
operation of the airport and for the control of air traffic therefrom;
         (b)   Fixed base operators (FBOs);
         (c)   Heliports, tourism operators, and ground school training;
         (d)   Balloon and associated gondola launching, landing and base of
operations; and
         (e)   Space-oriented operations, including research, development,
launching and landing.
      (2)   All other uses in the AP district shall require a conditional use
permit, special event permit or a temporary use permit that are consistent with
the Airport Master Plan. As part of the approval process, the Planning and
Zoning Commission shall give strong consideration to the recommendations and
conditions forwarded to it by the Airport Manager and Economic Development
Advisory Board (EDAB).
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, no use may be
made of land or water within any zone established by this chapter in such a
manner as to create electrical interference with navigational signals or radio
communication between the airport and aircraft; make it difficult for pilots to
distinguish between airport lights and others; result in glare in the eyes of
pilots using the airport; impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport or
otherwise in any way create a hazard or endanger the landing, takeoff, or
maneuvering of aircraft, intending to use the airport.
   (D)   Airport development standards.
      (1)   Site plan review and approval, as outlined in §
152.095 of this code, shall be required for all development and construction
within the specific boundaries of the airport districts and zones. All
development standards such as setbacks, heights, and lot coverage shall be
shown on the approved site plan, unless otherwise stated herein. It is required
that the Airport Manager and EDAB review all site plans and conditional use
permit requests and advise the Planning and Zoning Commission of any known or
potential impacts or conditions that might be caused by the proposed
development or the conditional use permit.
      (2)   Building heights within the boundaries of the airport districts and
zones shall be as set forth in the federal aviation regulations (FAR) part 77
airspace plan, the city Airport Master Plan, and the underlying zoning
district, with no allowances for exceptions to the building height. The most
restrictive guidelines shall apply.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no vegetation or tree
shall be planted or allowed to grow, or be maintained in any airport district
created by this chapter to a height in excess of the applicable height limit
herein established.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.032 SPECIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   General purpose. The purpose of the special districts is to recognize
there are unique areas within the city that require special treatment to
provide for their continuance or preservation. Unlike residential, commercial
or industrial zoning districts that exist to regulate development, special
districts provide mechanisms for the protection of undeveloped areas, federal
lands, or recreational resources that are located within the city.
   (B)   Special Districts.
      (1)   Federal Lands District (FL). The intent and purpose of the Federal
Lands District is to conserve natural resources, protect scenic vistas, and
provide recreational opportunities for undeveloped federal lands that are
administered by the National Park Service and Bureau of Land Management. Land
within this district shall preclude future development, unless a significant
change in conditions occurs, and only if a change to another district is
approved pursuant to the provisions of this chapter or as directed by and
pursuant to applicable federal law and jurisdiction. This district shall in no
way diminish, modify, amend, interfere with, or change the rights, duties and
privileges of the federal land's ownership and enjoyment as property of the
United States.
      (2)   Parks/Open Space District (POS). The intent and purpose of this
district is to promote the public health, safety and general welfare of the
community by protecting and preserving open space as a limited and valuable
resource which conserves natural resources, protects scenic vistas, provides
recreational opportunities, and contributes to the overall quality of life in
the city. These properties or parcels have been set-aside and designated by the
city for these purposes.
      (3)   Airport Residential Special District (ARSD). The intent of this
special district is to allow very low density single-family residential
developments, with conventional site-built homes, with attached or detached
airplane hangars, next to the Page Municipal Airport, while protecting scenic
vistas.
         (a)   Development in this district shall comply with all Federal
Aviation Administration (FAA) Regulations and Standards, all development
requirements listed in this code, the subdivision regulations, the
International Residential Codes (IRC), and any other relevant and applicable
city codes.
         (b)   Development in this district shall adhere to the minimum
development standards assigned to the Residential Estate/One-Acre District (RE-
1A), which are as follows:
            1.   Minimum Lot :      43,560 Sq. Ft. (1-Acre)
            2.   Minimum Lot Width:      150 Ft.
            3.   Minimum :         25 Ft. Front; 25 Ft. Sides; and 25 Ft. Rear
            4.   Maximum Lot Coverage:   20%
            5.   Maximum Building Height:   35 Ft.
         (c)   Due to the special nature and scenic views afforded to these
properties, the approval process for any developments in the ARSD Zone shall be
in accordance with the requirements defined in the Planned Area Development
(PAD) zoning district §
152.030.
         (d)   The applicant shall secure all FAA required approvals and
permits before making application with the city to begin the PAD review and
approval process.
      (4)   Hillside Residential Special District (HSRSD). The intent of this
very high-profile special district is to allow very low density single-family
residential developments, with conventional site-built homes, along one of the
most prominent hillsides in the city, where aesthetics is the highest priority.
         (a)   Development in this district shall comply with all development
requirements listed in this code, the subdivision regulations, the
International Residential Codes (IRC), and any other relevant and applicable
city codes.
         (b)   Development in this district shall adhere to the minimum
development standards assigned to the Residential Estate/One-Acre District (RE-
1A), which are as follows:
            1.   Minimum Lot Size:      43,560 Sq. Ft. (1 -Acre)
            2.   Minimum Lot :      150 Ft.
            3.   Minimum Setbacks:      25 Ft. Front; 25 Ft. Sides; and 25 Ft.
Rear
            4.   Maximum Lot Coverage:   20%
            5.   Maximum Building Height:   35 Ft.
         (c)   Due to the high visibility of this district, the architectural
cartoons and features showing the home styles shall be required to accompany
the development plan through the Planned Area Development approval process as
defined in §
152.030, to ensure that what is planned to be built meets with the approval of
the Planning and Zoning Commission and City Council.
      (5)   Public Quasi-Public District (PQP). The purpose and intent of this
special district is to show those properties or parcels within the city limits
that are owned, occupied, used, and maintained by governmental entities, to
include federal, state, county or city facilities or services, such as:
governmental offices, schools, recreational facilities, utilities and other
such uses.
      (6)   Undevelopable District (UNDV). The intent of this special district
is to define and show the areas of the city that are undevelopable due to steep
escarpments, flood zones, or other specific areas designated by the city as
undevelopable.
   (C)   Parks/open space use standards.
Table 2.5-1: Table of Allowed Uses for Parks/Open Space District
                               P = Permitted Use C = Conditional Use NP = Not
Use Category Specific Use Type Permitted
                               Parks/Open Space Zoning District
                               POS Supplemental Use Regulations
Table 2.5-1: Table of Allowed Uses for Parks/Open Space District
                                                       P = Permitted Use C =
                                                       Conditional Use NP = Not
                                                       Permitted
Use Category               Specific Use Type           Parks/Open Space Zoning
                                                       District
                                                       POS Supplemental Use
                                                           Regulations
                           Arboretum or Botanical      P
Public and Semi Public Use Garden
Category                   Campground/RV Park          P   §
                                                           152.045(I)
                           Cemetery                    C
                           Community Playfields and    P
                           Parks
                           Community Recreation Center C
                           Indoor and Outdoor Gun Club C
                           and Shooting Range
                           Museum, Cultural Facility   C
                           (Public)
                           Nature Preserves, Trails,   P
                           and Trailheads
                           Public Safety Facility      C
                           Wireless Communications
                           Facility (WCF) (including   C   §
                           Tower and Supporting            152.045(CC)
                           Facilities)
                           Agribusiness, Entertainment C
Agriculture Use Category   Farming
                           Agriculture, General        C
Commercial Use Category    Golf Course, Unlighted      C
                           Resort, Cabins, Lodges      C
 
   (D)   Park/open space development standards.
Table 2.5-2 Park/Open Space District Development Standards
Zoning District POS
Table 2.5-2 Park/Open Space District Development Standards
Zoning District                                           POS
Lot Dimensions, maximum Size of Use or User (square feet) -
                        Front (feet)                      25
Setbacks, minimum       Side (feet)                       25
                        Rear (feet)                       25
Lot Coverage, maximum (%)                                 -
Building Height, maximum (feet)                           40
 
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.033 MEASUREMENTS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   General purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide uniform
measures for interpretation and enforcement of this code.
   (B)   Setback regulations. This section establishes setback standards to
ensure the provision of open areas for access to and around structures,
maintain natural light and ventilation for individual properties, separation of
incompatible land uses, and space for landscaping, privacy, traffic safety, and
visibility.
      (1)   Setback requirements. All structures shall conform to the setback
requirements as provided within this chapter, unless otherwise provided in
division (B)(3) below.
      (2)   Setback measurement. Setbacks shall be measured as follows:
         (a)   Front setback. The front setback shall be measured at right
angles from the nearest point on the front property line to the nearest wall of
the structure.
         (b)   Side and street side setback. The side and street side setbacks
shall be measured at right angles from the nearest point on the side property
line to the nearest wall of the structure, establishing a setback line parallel
to the side property line, that extends between the front and rear yards.
         (c)   Rear setback. The rear setback shall be measured at right angles
from the nearest point on the rear property line to the nearest wall of the
structure, establishing a setback line parallel to the rear property line that
extends between the side yards.
      (3)   Setback encroachment. Every part of a required yard shall be
unobstructed from ground level to the sky, except as follows:
         (a)   Setback restrictions do not apply to: slabs, uncovered patios,
walks, steps, fences, hedges, or freestanding walls. Freestanding walls are
subject to any sight triangle regulations; or
         (b)   Certain architectural features and improvements may encroach
into required setbacks as follows:
            1.   Ordinary projections of window sills, cornices, eaves and
other ornamental features may project a distance not exceeding two feet into
any required yard.
            2.   Patio covers and ornamental features may project into any
required side yard, provided such features shall be a minimum of three feet
from any lot or setback line whichever is most restrictive.
            3.   Air conditioning units, pool pumps or similar mechanical
equipment may project into any required side yard, provided such features shall
be a distance of at least three feet from any lot line or setback line
whichever is most restrictive. Any mechanical equipment located in a required
side yard, based on the minimum requirements above, should be placed within a
side yard with no gate access to front yard.
            4.   Vestibules, bay windows, nooks, chimneys or similar wall
projections with or without footings may encroach not more than three feet into
any required front or rear yard and not more than three feet into any required
side yard, provided the aggregate width of all such projections adjacent to any
yard does not exceed ten feet.
            5.   Uncovered open decks, patios and terraces less than 30 inches
in height may encroach into any required yard by not more than three feet.
   (C)   Height regulations. This section establishes height standards to
promote compatible transitions between differing land uses, ensure adequate
light and air to individual properties, and to accommodate equipment height
capabilities, and good design.
      (1)   Maximum height. All structures and appurtenances shall conform to
the height requirements as provided within this chapter, unless otherwise
provided in division (C)(3) below.
      (2)   Height measurement. The maximum allowable height shall be measured
as follows:
         (a)   The vertical distance measured from the average finished grade
at the perimeter of the base of a building and/or structure to the highest
point of the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof or to
the highest point of the highest gable of a pitch or hip roof.
         (b)   For lots with slopes of 5% or more, the height of a building
and/or structure is measured as the vertical distance from the bottom of the
floor slab or joists to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof or to
the deck line of a mansard roof or to the highest point of the highest gable of
a pitch or hip roof.
      (3)   Height exceptions for appurtenances. Notwithstanding specific
regulations provided elsewhere in this chapter, the following appurtenances are
permitted to exceed the height limits within any district where the use is
allowed, subject to the following requirements:
         (a)   Parapet walls or cornices may extend to a maximum of three feet
above the building height limit;
         (b)   Private communication, radio and television antennas, or
satellite dishes attached to principal structure may only extend five feet
above the allowed maximum height of the base zoning district;
         (c)   Cupolas, chimneys may project up to five feet above the allowed
maximum height of the underlying base zoning district or as required to meet
applicable building code requirements;
         (d)   Heating and ventilation equipment and all other mechanical
equipment may extend up to five feet above the maximum height limit provided
the equipment complies with screening requirements set forth in §
152.057;
         (e)   Church spires or belfries may be up to 25% or ten feet greater
than the maximum allowed height provided they are designed without provision
for occupancy and plans receive prior approval of the city;
         (f)   Flagpoles and alternative energy generating systems in
residential zoning districts may extend to a maximum of ten feet above the
allowed maximum height of the underlying base zoning district, and in
commercial and industrial zoning districts they may extend as high as permitted
by the flagpole manufacturer, upon approval by the city;
         (g)   Wind generating systems and solar panels attached to a building
may extend up to five feet above the allowed maximum height of the underlying
base zoning district;
         (h)   Commercial telecommunication and cell tower facilities shall be
developed in accordance with the provisions of §
152.045(CC), but the support structure and antennae shall not exceed 90 feet;
and
         (i)   No appurtenances shall be constructed for the purpose of
providing additional floor area in the building.
   (D)   Limited Modifications to Requirements. Where, in the opinion of the
Director, and as approved by City Council, there exists extraordinary
conditions of topography, rock outcroppings, soil conditions, land ownership,
adjacent development, or other circumstances not provided for in these
regulations, City Council may modify the provisions of this Code in such a
manner, and to such extent as it may deem appropriate to the public interest.
The burden of proof for City Council determination of a modification rests with
the applicant. The written request for modification shall be made to the City
and shall be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission and City Council
after said modifications have been sufficiently reviewed by the Site Plan
Review Committee. A recommendation of said modification(s) by the Planning and
Zoning Commission shall then be sent to City Council for a final decision.
Modifications are specific to each case and do not set a precedent due to the
extraordinary and specific circumstances involved with each case.
      (1)   In modifying the standards and/or requirements of these provisions,
as outlined above, City Council may make such additional requirements as deemed
necessary to be in the best interest of the public, and without creating an
undue hardship upon the applicant, to secure substantially the objectives and
general intent of the standards or requirements so modified.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
SUPPLEMENTARY USE STANDARDS
§ 152.045 SPECIFIC LAND USE DEVELOPMENT AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   A vibrant, dynamic community needs a variety of land use activities to
satisfy the needs of its inhabitants. Because of their particular dynamics, a
number of uses require special standards to mitigate their potential adverse
impacts on adjacent properties. It is the intent of this section to identify
those land uses and to provide specific criterion and conditions to ensure
that, if permitted, they will contribute to the health, safety, and general
welfare of the city. The requirements specified herein are in addition to those
specified in the corresponding zoning district. In the event of conflict
between these standards and the underlying zoning district standards, the
provisions of this section shall apply.
   Any lawful use in existence prior to the effective date of this chapter that
could not be permitted or rebuilt thereafter because of zoning district
requirements shall be considered a legal nonconforming use and, accordingly,
shall not be subject to this section, unless the facility is proposed to be
expanded beyond the building or facility use footprint, whichever is greater,
in which case it shall be required to be brought into compliance with all
current, applicable zoning ordinance provisions.
   (A)   Purpose. This section details additional site planning, development
standards, and performance standards for specific land uses listed within §§
152.025 through
152.033.
   (B)   Adult entertainment business. In addition to the requirements of §
152.091, no conditional use permit shall be issued for an adult entertainment
business, which is allowed in the IP zone, unless it meets the following
additional conditions:
      (1)   The adult entertainment business is located no closer than 1,200
feet from: the exterior boundaries of a Residential Zoning District or use; the
exterior property lines of any public or private school having a pre-school or
kindergarten through grade 12; the exterior boundaries of any park or
playground; any church or non-commercial establishment owned or operated by a
bona fide religious organization; and no closer than 2,000 feet from any other
adult entertainment business.
      (2)   The adult entertainment business displays no sign visible from the
exterior of the business except for a sign identifying the business as an adult
entertainment business.
      (3)   The adult entertainment business excludes persons less than 18
years of age or 21 years of age if alcohol is served.
      (4)   No materials depicting specific sexual activities or specific
anatomical areas shall be visible from the exterior of the adult entertainment
business.
      (5)   All distances specified in this section shall be measured in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the
property line of any adult entertainment business to the nearest property line
of any other adult entertainment business, school, church, public facility,
residential district or other land use specified in this section.
   (C)   Animal kennel/shelter, hospital/veterinarian clinic, training school.
      (1)   No animals under care may be boarded outside, except for facilities
located in the IP district. Those areas in which animals are boarded shall be
fully enclosed structures and shall be sufficiently insulated so no
unreasonable noise or odor can be detected off the premises.
      (2)   All boarded animals shall be kept within a totally enclosed part of
a structure between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., unless further
limited by the approval process, except with direct supervision associated with
non-exercise or training related activities. All outside exercise or training
of animals shall be prohibited during these hours. This provision shall not
apply in the IP district.
      (3)   Outdoor dog runs, exercise, or training activity areas shall not be
located within 200 feet from a residentially zoned property or use.
      (4)   Outdoor runs and exercise areas shall be enclosed by a minimum six-
foot fence.
      (5)   Suitable control and maintenance shall be exercised over the use,
structure and animals so that a nuisance condition is not created in terms of
excessive noise, dirt, or odor.
      (6)   In association with a required conditional use permit, the city may
establish other conditions and requirements necessary to prevent possible
nuisances (i.e., location and/or size of activity areas, fencing height and/or
material, screening, soundproofing, sanitary requirements, or limits on the
number of animals serviced or boarded).
      (7)   Special events such as shows, exhibitions, and contests shall only
be permitted when a temporary use permit has been secured.
   (D)   Assisted living center and nursing home.
      (1)   All facilities shall comply with all applicable federal, state and
local requirements for the location and operation of such facilities and the
provision of safe outdoor recreation areas and gross floor areas for every
person that the facility is licensed to accommodate.
      (2)   The facility shall have direct access from an arterial or collector
street.
      (3)   Facilities within any residential district shall not be located
within 1,200 feet (as measured from the property lines) of a childcare
facility, a nursing home, a resident care home or a group care home facility
that are also located within any residential district.
      (4)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the state has adopted laws or
rules for the regulation of an assisted living center, then any such state law
or rule shall apply in addition to the conditions listed herein and shall
preempt any conflicting condition listed herein.
   (E)   Automobile/boat repair, major.
      (1)   All major repair facilities shall be subject to the site plan
review and/or CUP process. In addition to standard site plan information, the
applicant shall provide a plan which shows an ability to control onsite and
prevent off-site nuisance conditions such as noise, dust, odors, vectors and
wind-blown debris.
      (2)   Accessory uses may include assembly and repair buildings, machine
shops, paint facilities, fueling and supply facilities, parking areas,
automobile/boat lifts and incidental retail sales associated with the principal
uses.
      (3)   A use may combine major repair with automobile/boat sales, outside
storage or service stations only if these uses are permitted or conditionally
permitted and approved in that district. If combined with said uses, major
repair facilities shall additionally comply with the provisions of divisions
(G), (T), and/or (Z) of this section.
      (4)   Major repair facilities shall be located with direct access to
paved roadways that are suitable in size to allow for the efficient delivery of
automobile and boats for repair. This provision shall not apply in the IP
district.
      (5)   Outdoor repair areas shall be paved with concrete, asphalt, pavers,
or gravel. This provision shall not apply in the IP district.
      (6)   Major repair facilities must be fully screened from view by a 100%
opaque fence or engineered concrete/masonry block wall that is no less than six
feet, but no more than eight feet in height.
      (7)   As part of the conditional use permit process within the BP
District, a landscaped screen of plantings may be required in combination with
a required fence or wall to further buffer and/or shield repair activities from
public view or adjacent residential districts. See §
152.057(C) for additional screening regulations. This provision shall not apply
in the IP district.
      (8)   No temporary or long-term repair parking, outdoor repair
activities, or outdoor supply/material storage that exceed the height of the
screen wall may occur within the required setback areas of the zoning district
in which the major repair facility is located. This provision shall not apply
in the IP district.
      (9)   Outdoor repair related activities shall be limited to 6:00 a.m. to
9:00 p.m. within the SC district, unless modified through the CUP process.
      (10)   No pending, under repair, or repaired automobile/boat shall be
utilized for overnight sleeping or as living accommodations.
      (11)   All exterior lighting shall comply with the lighting standards
provided within §
152.059.
   (F)   Automobile/boat repair, minor.
      (1)   A use may combine a minor repair facility with a service station
only if the uses are permitted or conditionally permitted and approved in that
district. If combined with said uses, minor repair facilities shall
additionally comply with the provisions of division (Z) of this section.
      (2)   Service bay doors for minor repair facilities may not face Highway
89, Lake Powell Boulevard, or residential neighborhoods.
      (3)   Service and repair of boats onsite that exceed nine feet in width
by 30 feet in length is prohibited.
   (G)   Automobile/boat, sales and leasing; automobile/boat, rentals.
      (1)   A use may combine automobile/boat sales and leasing with
automobile/boat repair major, automobile/boat minor or outside storage only if
these uses are permitted or conditionally permitted and approved in that
district. If combined with said uses, sales and leasing facilities shall
additionally comply with the provisions of divisions (E), (F), and (T) of this
section.
      (2)   The sale and/or leasing of automobiles or boats physically onsite
that exceed nine feet in width by 30 feet in length is prohibited within the C-
2 District.
      (3)   The maneuvering, placement, display or storage of automobiles or
boats for sale or lease within the public right-of-way, required setback or
landscaped areas is prohibited.
      (4)   Sale and/or leasing areas shall be paved in compliance with city
engineering standards. This provision shall not apply in the IP district.
      (5)   Facilities that sell and/or lease, physically onsite, vehicles or
boats that exceed nine feet in width by 30 feet in length shall be required to
adhere to the provisions of division (T), except any part of the use fronting
on a public street shall not be required to meet the screening requirements of
said section.
      (6)   No pending, under repair, or repaired automobile/boat shall be
utilized for overnight sleeping or as living accommodations.
   (H)   [Reserved].
   (I)   Campground/RV Park. These regulations apply to campgrounds and RV
Parks where campsites are rented for the placement and occupancy of tents,
recreational vehicles, or camping cabins on a temporary or seasonal basis, and
permanent sites containing manufactured, modular or conventional homes
permanently attached to a concrete slab and utilities for long-term rentals and
for that of the owner, manager, or permanent maintenance personnel. The
installation or development of any campground shall comply with the following
minimum criteria:
      (1)   All campground/RV parks shall be designed in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and administered through the conditional use permit,
Planned Area Development (PAD) District zoning, and/or site plan review
process.
      (2)   In conditionally allowed districts and PAD Districts, campgrounds/
RV parks with frontage on U.S. Highway 89 or Coppermine Road shall not be
required to obtain a conditional use permit provided the use adheres to the
guidelines of this division and completes the site plan review process.
      (3)   Campground/RV parks shall not be used as permanent residences.
Manufactured, modular and conventional homes permanently attached to a concrete
slab and utilities may be used for long-term rentals and permanent residences
for the owner, manager or permanent maintenance personnel. In establishing the
temporary or seasonal nature of the campground, no single camping site shall be
occupied by the same party for a period of time longer than nine continuous
months in any 12-month period. Long-term residences shall be constructed in
accordance with the current International Residential Codes (IRC) Codes.
      (4)   Only one RV or camping cabin shall be permitted on each allowed
camp site. Camping cabins shall be designed for use as a temporary dwelling as
a temporary shelter for recreational camping and vacation use by visitors,
tourists, or campers.
      (5)   The minimum lot or parcel size for a campground/RV park shall be a
minimum of five gross acres.
      (6)   The maximum number of individual temporary camping sites allowed
shall be ten per gross acre.
      (7)   The maximum number of individual permanent residences shall not
exceed five per gross acre.
      (8)   The maximum number of permanent sites shall not exceed 20% of the
total number of all temporary and permanent sites available on the site.
      (9)   Each temporary or permanent site shall be clearly marked with an
alpha or numeric symbol on a sign which is clearly visible from internal access
roads. All camp sites shall be labeled on a map, which shall be provided to
each campground occupant; local police, fire, and emergency service provider;
and 911 dispatch center.
      (10)   All private roads located within a campground shall be well-
drained, all-weather, graveled or paved, and maintained in good condition by
the park owner. One-way roads shall be a minimum of 14 feet in width, all other
roads shall have a minimum travel surface of 24 feet, and all turnarounds shall
have a minimum of a fifty foot turning radius to accommodate emergency service
vehicles and delivery trucks, or as required by the International Fire Code,
whichever is greater. Parking shall be prohibited on both sides of all roads
within the park.
      (11)   Each camp site shall be provided with a minimum of two off-street
parking spaces.
      (12)   Each designated temporary camp site for RVs shall have an asphalt
or concrete pad a minimum of 16 feet in width by 45 feet in length, centered on
the space for the parking of the RV. There shall be no RV parking other than on
the paved surface area within the designated space.
      (13)   A recreation or common area shall be provided at a ratio of 100
square feet for every space. All common areas shall adhere to the provisions
outlined in §
152.057.
      (14)   The minimum distance between RVs or detached structures shall be
ten feet.
      (15)   Campgrounds/RV parks with more than 50 spaces shall provide two
separate ingress/egress point to the public street.
      (16)   There shall be a minimum distance of five feet from the RV and any
private street or sidewalk, including any attached projections.
      (17)   The campground/RV park shall be permanently screened from adjacent
properties and public rights-of-way by a solid engineered six foot high wall as
approved by the Director.
      (18)   Street improvements for any public roads bounding the campground
shall be made as required by the City or Arizona Department of Transportation
(ADOT), as applicable.
      (19)   Access to all temporary or permanent camp sites shall be from the
interior of the campground. There shall be no individual access to any camp
site from a public street.
      (20)   Required setback areas shall be preserved in their natural
condition or landscaped to provide a visual buffer to minimize any adverse
impact on abutting land uses. All camping, structures, outside storage and
motor vehicle parking/storage shall be prohibited from occurring within any
required setback areas.
      (21)   Each campground must provide an adequate and easily identifiable
office or registration area. The location of the office shall not interfere
with the normal flow of traffic into and out of the campground and adequate and
appropriately sized parking spaces to accommodate full-length RV's, trucks
towing campers, and privately owned vehicles, to accommodate working staff, and
people checking in or out, as approved by the Director, shall be provided near
the office and registration area.
      (22)   Recreational amenities or social centers, which may be used for
indoor pools, restaurants/cafes, exercise rooms, laundry facilities, restroom
and shower facilities, crafts, hobbies, games, meetings, banquets and similar
recreational uses shall be of conventional site-built construction, in
accordance with the current International Building Codes (IBC).
      (23)   Service buildings with laundry, toilet, bathing and other
sanitation facilities and utilities shall be provided as required by the city.
      (24)   Provision for on-site storm water retention/drainage and off-site
storm water drainage both entering and leaving the property shall be as
required by the city and/or ADOT, as applicable.
      (25)   All utilities shall be placed underground in accordance with and
as approved by the city, Page Utility Enterprises, and all other local utility
providers, including cable, communication, gas and fiber optics, as applicable.
      (26)   All lighting shall be in conformance with §
152.059.
      (27)   Each campground shall provide fire protection facilities as set
forth in the International Fire Code.
      (28)   Designated areas for boat and recreational vehicle storage within
the park shall be for the sole use of tenants of the campground.
      (29)   All refuse collection areas shall be completely enclosed via a
solid six-foot wall and view obstructing gate and located on a concrete
surface. Refuse collection areas shall be readily accessible to collection
vehicles, without substantially encumbering adjacent parking and vehicular
access. If the refuse collection area can be seen from the exterior of the
park, the enclosure should be softened with landscaping on the sides visible
from the street.
      (30)   A site plan approval application for a campground shall include
the following information:
         (a)   A written description of the proposed operation, including
proposed months of temporary camping operations; the desired number, types, and
characteristics of different desired temporary camping sites and permanent
residences; all other ancillary uses existing or proposed for the site;
operational procedures (e.g., noise and nuisance control, clean-up); and an
emergency access plan.
         (b)   A campground plan map, drawn to scale, showing: the existing and
proposed layout; location of all utilities and easements; drainage basins and
easements; temporary camp sites and camping units; permanent residences; roads
and ingress/egress to public streets; parking areas; refuse collection areas;
designated boat and recreational vehicle storage areas; the site boundaries;
existing and proposed topography (grading); minimum required yards; existing
and proposed buildings and other structures; common recreational and sanitation
facilities; water and sewer and stormwater management.
   (J)   Childcare center, commercial.
      (1)   A commercial childcare center shall be licensed, certified or
approved by the State of Arizona.
      (2)   A commercial childcare center shall meet Fire Code, Building Code,
Zoning Code and any other applicable regulations for a commercial business.
      (3)   Adequate off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with §
152.056.
      (4)   All childcare centers shall provide adequate drop-off and waiting
space so that parents' cars are not required to stand in a public right-of-way.
At least one drop-off space shall be provided for each five children enrolled
during peak attendance times. Child drop-off areas shall have direct pedestrian
access to the building entrance.
      (5)   A minimum of 100 square feet of outdoor play area shall be provided
per child utilizing the outdoor play area at any given time. The total outdoor
play area shall not be less than 1,200 square feet unless a greater amount is
required by the state. Outdoor play areas shall be in the rear or side yard,
fenced and screened in accordance with §
152.057(C).
   (K)   Childcare, home.
      (1)   A childcare home shall be licensed, certified or approved by the
State of Arizona.
      (2)   Childcare home vehicles belonging to employees and residents are
required to park onsite, in the garage or on an approved paved driveway.
      (3)   No signage for advertising or notification of use shall be
permitted on or off the site.
      (4)   A minimum of 600 square feet of open space shall be provided for an
outdoor play area, in the rear or side yards only.
      (5)   All outdoor recreation areas shall be completely screened and
enclosed by a six-foot-high solid masonry wall or wood fence with solid self-
closing and self-latching gates.
   (L)   Convenience store.
      (1)   A use may combine a convenience store and drive-through facility
and/or service station only if both uses are permitted or conditionally
permitted and approved in that district. If combined with said uses,
convenience stores shall also comply with the provisions of division (M) and/or
division (Z) of this section.
   (M)   Drive-through facility. This section shall apply to all principal uses
that include a drive-through facility.
      (1)   Menu boards shall not be placed facing the primary street and every
effort shall be made to avoid placing payment and/or pick-up windows adjacent
to public streets. Payment and/or pick-up windows shall not face Highway 89,
Lake Powell Boulevard or Scenic View Road.
      (2)   Drive through aisles that face or are adjacent to public streets
shall be screened from public view by a minimum three-foot-tall masonry wall
that matches the primary structure.
      (3)   No drive-through aisles shall exit directly onto a public right-of-
way.
      (4)   Drive through queuing length shall be approved in accordance with §
152.056(K)(6).
      (5)   Clearly marked and A.D.A. approved pedestrian crosswalks shall be
provided for each walk-in customer access point to the facility located
adjacent to drive-through lane(s).
   (N)   Group care home.
      (1)   A completed registration form shall be submitted to the Planning
and Zoning Department on a form established by the Director. Registration shall
become effective upon issuance of zoning clearance for the home and shall
terminate when the home use ceases. No registration/clearance shall be accepted
or approved for a home that does not comply with the conditions listed within
this section.
      (2)   Group care homes shall comply with all applicable federal, state
and local requirements for the location, development and operation of such
homes and the provision of safe outdoor recreation areas and gross floor areas
for every person that the home is licensed to accommodate.
      (3)   Group care homes shall not be located within 1,200 feet, as
measured from the property lines, of another group care home or a residential
care home facility.
      (4)   The group care home shall not involve changes in the exterior
appearance of any structure or necessitate equipment that is not related to the
primary residential use.
      (5)   All administrative activities, including staffing, counseling, and
other visitations, shall serve only residents of the group care home.
   (O)   Manufactured home. These regulations apply to all manufactured homes.
The installation or construction of any dwelling unit, factory-built or
manufactured, shall comply with the following minimum criteria:
      (1)   A manufactured home is subject to all standards contained in Table
2.2-2, Residential District Development Standards for the zoning district(s) in
which the home is situated, unless otherwise stated within this section.
      (2)   All newly placed manufactured homes shall be required to meet the
most current HUD Code standards, be certified under the National Manufactured
Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 and comply with State of
Arizona Office of Manufactured Housing regulations and all the provisions
outlined in this chapter.
      (3)   The exterior building facade, including trim, doors, windows, roof
fascia and the like, shall consist of wood, stucco, horizontal siding, brick,
masonry veneer, or other similar building material commonly used in site-built
residential construction; provided, however, that metal siding, other than
aluminum lap siding, shall be prohibited. Patio covers and detached storage
buildings shall be exempt from this requirement.
      (4)   All manufactured homes placed in a subdivision or on a single tract
of land shall be set upon a permanent foundation or footing for the purpose of
a permanent installation. Such installation shall render the dwelling no more
portable than if it were constructed totally on site.
      (5)   All manufactured homes placed in a manufactured home park shall
utilize a finished building material to surround the entire perimeter of the
dwelling and completely enclose the space between the exterior facade of the
dwelling and the ground. Such foundation siding shall be properly vented,
harmonious, and compatible with the dwelling.
      (6)   Any device used to transport a manufactured home to the site of
installation, including the hitch, wheels, axles, or other devices used
primarily for transport other than a chassis, shall be detached from the
dwelling as part of the installation procedure in any zoning district.
      (7)   All manufactured home installations must follow the Arizona
Department of Building and Fire Safety Statutes and Rules.
   (P)   Manufactured home park. These regulations apply to manufactured home
parks. The development of any factory-built or manufactured home park shall
comply with the below minimum criteria:
      (1)   The minimum distance between manufactured homes or between
accessory structures and manufactured homes shall be ten feet and no structure
shall be closer than ten feet to the exterior boundary or five feet to
individual space lines of the park.
      (2)   There shall be a minimum distance of ten feet between the front of
the manufactured home and any private street or private sidewalk, including
tongue and bay windows or any other attached projection.
      (3)   A minimum of 10% of the total park area shall be designated as
permanent open space. Where phases are proposed for the manufactured home park,
the percentage of open space in each phase shall meet or exceed the minimum
total for the specified phase area. The open space shall be available through
the use of easements to all residents of the development. Streets, driveways,
parking areas, buffer areas, recreation vehicle storage, and buildings shall
not be included in calculating the size of open space.
      (4)   A ten-foot landscape area shall be required where the park is
adjacent to a public street/sidewalk.
      (5)   Two paved off-street parking spaces of nine feet by 20 feet shall
be required for each manufactured home space.
      (6)   One nine-foot by 20-foot visitor parking space shall be required
for each eight manufactured home spaces. Common lots spaced evenly throughout
the park may be employed to provide off-street parking. One 12 foot by 30-foot
RV or boat parking space shall be required for every four manufactured home
spaces, which are for the sole use of the residents, and be completely screened
at outside park boundaries by a six-foot-high wall or fence.
      (7)   Street improvements for any public roads bounding or within the
manufactured home park shall be made as required by the Public Works Director.
      (8)   All interior drives or roadways shall be a minimum width of 24 feet
or as required by the Uniform Fire Code, whichever is greater. Width of roadway
is exclusive of curbs and walkways, measured from edge of pavement to edge of
pavement. The interior drives or roadways shall be paved in accordance with
city engineering standards.
      (9)   Provision for on-site storm water retention/drainage and off-site
storm water drainage both entering and leaving the property shall be as
required by the Public Works Director.
      (10)   Each manufactured home park shall provide fire protection
facilities as set forth in the Uniform Fire Code.
      (11)   The manufactured home park shall be permanently screened from
adjacent properties by a solid wall or wood fence, six feet in height.
      (12)   One manufactured home shall be permitted on each approved space.
No recreational vehicles or dwelling units of conventional construction shall
be permitted on a manufactured home space for living purposes except for that
of the owner, manager, or permanent maintenance personnel.
      (13)   Access to all manufactured home spaces shall be from the interior
of the park. There shall be no individual access to any manufactured home space
from a public street.
      (14)   Manufactured home parks with more than 100 lots shall have a
minimum of two separate access entry drives connecting the park to public
streets. Access to the development shall not be through a residential area to
reach a collector route.
      (15)   All refuse collection areas shall be completely enclosed via a
solid six-foot wall and view obstructing gate and located on a concrete
surface, and if it can be seen from outside the park, the enclosure shall be
softened with landscaping on its most visible sides.
      (16)   All lighting shall be in conformance with §
152.059.
      (17)   All utilities shall be placed underground. Placement of utilities,
including master meters, shall meet all requirements of the city, as well as
the respective utility companies.
      (18)   The site plan shall provide for a system of pedestrian circulation
within the development. The system shall connect with any existing sidewalks
adjacent to the property. The pedestrian access may be located either in the
street right-of-way or in common open space. The system shall be designed to
link residential units with recreation facilities, school bus stops, and
existing sidewalks in the neighborhood. Pedestrian ways may take the form of
sidewalks or walking paths with a minimum width of five feet.
   (Q)   Medical marijuana establishment, dispensary, cultivation site.
      (1)   To obtain a conditional use permit, the medical marijuana
ESTABLISHMENT, dispensary, or medical marijuana cultivation location shall not
be closer than 1,200 feet from the boundaries of a Residential Zoning District
or use, the property lines of any public or private school, public park or
playground, or church or non-commercial establishment owned or operated by a
religious organization.
      (2)   The business shall not be located within 2,000 feet of any adult
entertainment businesses, or other medical marijuana dispensary or cultivation
location and shall display no sign visible from the exterior except for a sign
identifying the business as a medical marijuana dispensary or medical marijuana
cultivation location. All signage shall also adhere to the requirements of §
152.058. The business shall exclude persons less than 18 years of age from its
premises. No materials depicting marijuana plants or marijuana use shall be
visible from the exterior of the business.
      (3)   All distances shall be measured in a straight line, without regard
to intervening structures or objects, from the property line of the business to
the nearest property line of another adult entertainment business, or other
medical marijuana dispensary or cultivation location, school, church, public
facility, residential district or use or other use specified in this
regulation.
      (4)   Medical marijuana cultivation site. With regard to a medical
marijuana cultivation location, applicants seeking a conditional use permit
shall provide the name and location of the off-site dispensary, a copy of
operating procedures adopted in compliance with A.R.S. § 36-2804(B)(l)(c),
procedures for proper disposal of marijuana remnants or by-products (not to be
the facility's exterior refuse container), a security plan, and a plan to
prohibit the emission of odors from the facility into the environment. The
cultivation location must be a permanent building (not a habitable trailer,
cargo container or motor vehicle) with a maximum area not to exceed 2,000
square feet unless otherwise shown by the applicant and approved through the
conditional use permit process that additional area is needed to provide
necessary medical marijuana to the identified dispensary. The cultivation
location shall not be open to the public and retail sales are prohibited.
Marijuana shall not be consumed on the premises, including any accessory
structures, parking lot or parking areas. Caregivers, as authorized by AZ DHS
to cultivate medical marijuana, shall be restricted to cultivation of medical
marijuana in the Service Commercial Zoning District.
      (5)   Medical marijuana dispensary. With regard to a medical marijuana
dispensary, on-site and drive through services are prohibited. Applicants
seeking a conditional use permit shall provide the name and location of the
off-site cultivation location or source, a copy of operating procedures adopted
in compliance with A.R.S. § 36-2804(B)(1)(c), procedures for proper disposal of
marijuana remnants or by-products (not to be the facility's exterior refuse
container), a security plan, and a plan to prohibit the emission of odors from
the facility into the environment. The dispensary must be a permanent building
(not a habitable trailer, cargo container or motor vehicle) with a maximum area
not to exceed 1,000 square feet. Operating hours shall not be earlier than 8:00
a.m. and not later than 8:00 p.m. Marijuana shall not be consumed on the
premises of the dispensary, including any accessory structures, parking lot or
parking areas.
   (R)   Microbrewery, craft distillery, or tasting room.
      (1)   Must provide evidence of a valid state license before commencing
operations or at any time upon the request of the Director and the conditions
of any such license shall always be adhered to by the operator of the
establishment.
      (2)   Pure manufacturing and storage uses not associated with a retail or
restaurant function are not allowed in the C-2, CBD or MU Districts.
      (3)   All manufacturing and processing activity shall be conducted within
a completely enclosed building.
      (4)   In the C-2, CBD and MU Districts outdoor storage shall be limited
to grain silos designed to be screened from public view or integrated into the
design of the principal building using compatible materials and colors. No
other materials, including products ready for shipping, or equipment shall be
stored outdoors unless approved through a conditional use permit.
      (5)   Outdoor seating and serving is permitted. The location and
placement of outdoor dining and serving facilities shall meet all performance
standards in §
152.055.
      (6)   Shall meet all performance standards in §
152.055, including but not limited to odor standards in §
152.055(G).
   (S)   Mobile homes. After the effective date of this chapter, the following
regulations shall apply to all mobile homes:
      (1)   Only pre-existing, in place mobile homes shall be allowed for
residential or non-residential use on an existing lot or within an existing
mobile home park, subject to all applicable A.R.S. The relocation of a pre-
existing mobile home from its current location, lot or mobile home park shall
be prohibited.
      (2)   The placement and residential or non-residential use of mobile
homes constructed prior to 1976 is prohibited, unless in place and in use on
the effective date of this chapter.
   (T)   Outside storage.
      (1)   All outside storage facilities shall be subject to the site plan
review and/or CUP process. In addition to standard site plan information, the
applicant shall provide a plan which shows an ability to control onsite and
prevent off-site nuisance conditions such as noise, dust, odors, vectors and
wind-blown debris.
      (2)   A use may combine outside storage with automobile/boat major repair
and automobile/boat sales only if both uses are permitted or conditionally
permitted and approved in that district. If combined with said uses, outside
storage facilities shall additionally comply with the provisions of divisions
(E) and/or (G) of this section.
      (3)   Outside storage facilities shall be located with direct access to
paved roadways that are suitable in size to allow for the efficient delivery of
automobiles and boats for storage. This provision shall not apply in the IP
district.
      (4)   Outside storage areas shall be paved with concrete, asphalt,
pavers, or gravel. This provision shall not apply in the IP district.
      (5)   Outside storage facilities must be fully screened from view by a
100% opaque fence or engineered concrete/masonry block wall no less than six
feet, but no more than eight feet in height, as approved by the Director.
      (6)   As part of the conditional use permit process within the SC
District, a landscaped screen of plantings may be required in addition to a
required fence or wall to further buffer and/or shield storage activities from
public view or adjacent residential districts. See §
152.057(C) for additional screening regulations. This provision shall not apply
in the IP district.
      (7)   No outside storage that exceeds the height of the screen wall may
occur within the required setback areas. This provision shall not apply in the
IP district.
      (8)   No stored automobile/boat shall be utilized for overnight sleeping
or as living accommodations.
      (9)   All exterior lighting shall comply with the lighting standards
provided within §
152.059.
   (U)   [Reserved].
   (V)   Religious assembly.
      (1)   All vehicular access to the facility shall be onto an arterial or
collector road.
      (2)   Wherever an off-street parking area is adjacent to a residential
use, a continuous obscuring wall, fence and/or landscaped area at least six
feet in height shall be provided.
   (W)   Resident care home.
      (1)   A completed registration form shall be submitted on a form
established by the Director. Registration shall become effective upon issuance
of zoning clearance for the home and shall terminate when the home use ceases.
No registration/clearance shall be accepted or approved for a home that does
not comply with the conditions listed herein.
      (2)   Resident care homes shall comply with all applicable federal, state
and local requirements for the location, development and operation of such
homes and the provision of safe outdoor recreation areas and gross floor areas
for every person that the home is licensed to accommodate.
      (3)   Resident care homes shall not be located within 1,200 feet, as
measured from the property lines, of another resident care home or a group care
home facility.
      (4)   All administrative activities, including staffing, counseling, and
other visitations, shall serve only residents of the residential care home.
      (5)   As a reasonable accommodation for persons with a disability, strict
compliance with the standards set out in this section may be waived by the
Director in accordance with the requirements stated herein. A request for such
a reasonable accommodation waiver must be in writing and filed with the
Director. In all cases, the Director, or designee, shall make findings of fact
in support of the determination and shall render their decision in writing. The
Director may interview the person making the request to ascertain or clarify
information sufficiently to make the required findings and/or may request
additional information such as a site plan, floor plan, maximum number of
residents, transportation methods and/or a description of daily activities. To
grant a reasonable accommodation waiver, the Director shall find all the
following applies:
         (a)   The request will be in compliance with all applicable building
and fire codes;
         (b)   The request will not create adverse impacts on traffic, parking,
water or sewer systems, or any utility or use; and
         (c)   Profitability or financial hardship of a facility shall not be
considered by the Director in deciding to grant a reasonable accommodation
waiver. An appeal of the decision of the Director may be made regarding
reasonable accommodation to the Board of Adjustment pursuant to §
152.086(K).
   (X)   School, public or private; school, boarding and college or university.
      (1)   The facility shall meet all applicable fire, building or any other
applicable codes or regulations.
      (2)   All access for high schools, middle schools, boarding schools, or
colleges shall be from an arterial or collector roadway; vehicular ingress and
egress to local streets is prohibited.
      (3)   Elementary schools shall not be located adjacent to arterial roads
or roads with higher classifications.
   (Y)   Self-storage, indoor.
      (1)   All storage shall be completely within enclosed buildings.
      (2)   A use may combine indoor storage with outside storage only if both
uses are permitted or conditionally permitted and approved in that district. If
combined with said use, indoor storage facilities shall additionally comply
with the provisions of division (T) of this section.
      (3)   Doors to individual storage units shall not face any abutting
public street frontage, or, if the site is located on a comer parcel, shall not
face the primary public street frontage.
      (4)   No business activity other than rental of storage units shall be
conducted on the premises.
      (5)   All self-storage rental contracts shall include clauses
prohibiting:
         (a)   The storage of flammable liquids, highly combustible or
explosive materials, or hazardous chemicals; and the use of the property for
purposes other than dead storage.
      (6)   An accessory structure for a management office may be allowed on
site, subject to regulations specified in §
152.046.
   (Z)   Service station.
      (1)   Service stations shall not include:
         (a)   Any outdoor service or repair operations, other than the
dispensing of fuel or other minor installation services as related to such
dispensing or installation;
         (b)   There shall be no sale, rental, display, long-term parking, or
storage of vehicles, boats, trailers, machinery or other similar equipment; or
         (c)   There shall be no outdoor storage or display of vehicle
components and parts, supplies or equipment, except within an area defined on
the project approved site plan and which extends no more than ten feet beyond
the building.
      (2)   Service bay doors may not face Highway 89, Lake Powell Boulevard,
or residential neighborhoods.
      (3)   All fuel pumps and islands shall be covered by a canopy that
matches the main structure.
      (4)   Electric charging stations may count towards required parking
spaces.
      (5)   Under canopy mounted lights shall be flush with the underside of
the canopy. All additional outdoor lighting shall be subject to the
requirements of §
152.059.
      (6)   Any signs, logo or identifying paint scheme on the primary
building, canopy or gas price signs shall adhere to the applicable sign
regulations provided in §
152.058.
   (AA)   Tour services.
      (1)   All tour services are required to conduct business out of a
physical office space located within permitted districts as identified in
Tables 2.3-1 and
2.4-1. Sales are not permitted on public right-of-way.
      (2)   All parking, queuing, and loading/unloading of tour vehicles shall
be conducted on the subject property or within approved areas as defined
through the site plan approval and conditional use permit process.
      (3)   Tour operators are prohibited from conducting any tour operations
business within a residentially zoned district, including the use of
residential streets for tour departure and return routes.
      (4)   All maintenance, repairs, and service washing areas shall be fully
screened from view by a 100% opaque fence or engineered concrete/masonry block
wall that is no less than six feet in height.
      (5)   Any heliport, associated with a helicopter tour service, located
outside the airport shall be required to obtain a conditional use permit. No
conditional use permit shall be considered for approval unless and until the
location, site plan and operation standards comply with all the provisions
herein, and a Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) airspace letter-of-
determination stating no objection, with or without conditions, is provided for
the proposed facility and location.
      (6)   If the Director determines a proposed operation has the potential
to create an adverse impact on the surrounding area, the city may establish
other conditions and requirements necessary to prevent possible nuisances
(i.e., control number of allowed tours per day, define hours of operation,
specify tour routes or deny the CUP).
      (7)   All outdoor storage of materials which might cause fumes, odors,
dust, fire hazard, or health hazards must be placed within enclosed containers
or unless otherwise complies with applicable law.
      (8)   All tour service facilities shall comply with all applicable
federal, state and local laws for such a facility. Copies of permits or letters
of approval shall be submitted to the city prior to the start of operations.
   (BB)   Vacation home rentals.
      (1)   Purpose.
         (a)   The purpose of this section is to establish minimum regulations
for the use of residential dwellings utilized as vacation rentals.
         (b)   This section shall not provide any residential property owner
with the right or privilege to violate any private conditions or covenants and
restrictions applicable to the property that may prohibit the use of such
property for said use, as defined herein.
         (c)   Vacation home rentals are limited to individually or
collectively owned single-family dwelling units, up to and including any multi-
family unit or group of units in a condominium, cooperative or timeshare, that
is also a transient public lodging establishment or owner-occupied residential
home offered for transient use if the accommodations are not classified for
property taxation under A.R.S. § 42-12001. Use of any other unit, dwelling or
group of units or dwellings as a vacation rental or short-term rental is
prohibited. Vacation rentals do not include a unit that is used for any
nonresidential use, including retail, restaurant, banquet space, event center
or other similar use.
      (2)   Applicability. The provisions of this section apply within the
incorporated boundaries of the city.
      (3)   Laws. Vacation home rentals are subject to all laws relating to
noise, building and fire codes, protection of welfare, parking, property
maintenance and nuisance and may not be used for the purposes of housing sex
offenders, operating or maintaining a structured sober living home, selling
illegal drugs, liquor control or pornography, obscenity, nude or topless
dancing and other adult-oriented businesses.
      (4)   Emergency point of contact. An owner of a vacation home rental
shall designate an emergency point of contact. Said point of contact shall be
filed with the City Clerk.
   (CC)   Wireless telecommunication/communication facilities (WCF).
      (1)   This section is to provide a uniform and comprehensive set of
standards for the placement, construction and modification of wireless
communication facilities (WCF). To protect and promote public health, safety,
general welfare and the visual quality of the city while at the same time not
unduly restricting the development of needed communication facilities and
important amateur radio installations and encouraging managed development of
communication infrastructure. It is also the stated intent of this section to
provide a public forum to ensure a balance between public concerns and private
interest in establishing communication and related facilities. The regulations
in this section are established to:
         (a)   Provide guidelines for the siting and design of WCF;
         (b)   Minimize adverse visual impacts of towers and WCF through
careful design, siting, landscaping and camouflaging techniques;
         (c)   Enhance the ability to provide wireless services to city
residents, businesses and visitors;
         (d)   Simplify and shorten the process for obtaining necessary
permits, while protecting the interests of residents;
         (e)   Promote and encourage co-location of towers and attached WCF as
a primary option;
         (f)   Ensure that WCF are compatible with adjacent land uses; and
         (g)   Avoid potential damage to property caused by towers and
communications facilities by ensuring that structures are correctly designed
and installed, and removed when no longer used or structurally unsafe.
      (2)   Amendments. For the purpose of protecting the public health, safety
and general welfare, the Planning and Zoning Commission may from time to time
propose amendments to these regulations which shall be approved or disapproved
by the City Council at a public meeting following public notice. Realizing that
communication technologies are constantly evolving and changing, where future
innovations may reduce the impacts of individual facilities and render portions
of these regulations obsolete, periodic review and revision of these
regulations will be necessary.
      (3)   Applicability.
         (a)   Commercial WCF are permitted as a conditional use (CUP) in all
zoning districts except for small wireless facilities, certain antennas, or
public safety communication facilities as described in division (CC)(5) and
residential or planned area development districts.
         (b)   No person shall build, construct or erect a WCF within any
residential or planned area development districts until a review process has
determined the site is properly camouflaged and integrated with and/or screened
by a non-antenna support structure (streetlight, utility pole, building
feature, landscape feature, etc.).
         (c)   All antenna support structures and WCFs located in the city, are
subject to this section. Except as provided in this section, any use being made
of an existing antenna support structure or attached WCF shall be deemed a
legal-nonconforming structure and allowed to continue, even if in conflict with
the terms of this section.
         (d)   The Director, by administrative review, may approve (without
obtaining a CUP) the proposed construction or development of a camouflaged
facility or a co-located facility provided that a building permit is obtained
and the proposal meets the minimum requirements of this chapter.
      (4)   Exceptions.
         (a)   Small wireless facilities. The construction, improvement, co-
location, modification, repair or operation of small wireless facilities may be
located within any city right-of-way or any areas outside of the right-of-way
that are not zoned exclusively for residential uses. Said small wireless
facilities shall be permitted by right and not subject to any zoning or CUP
review and approval. Additional city permits may apply for the construction,
improvement, co-location, modification, repair or operation of small wireless
facilities;
         (b)   Public safety communications facilities;
         (c)   The provisions of this section do not apply to radio or
television reception, receive only, citizen band, marine band and satellite or
microwave parabolic antennas (Residential: one meter or less in diameter)
(Industrial/Commcrcial: two meters or less in diameter) not used by commercial
carriers. The height of the antenna shall not exceed the roofline of the
primary structure on the parcel and shall be placed on the rear or side of the
parcel;
         (d)   The provisions of this section do not apply to FCC licensed
amateur stations as part of the amateur service with a single antenna support
structure and shall not be subject to the requirements of this section except
as follows;
         (e)   No outdoor amateur station antenna shall be installed until and
unless an amateur station antenna permit has been approved and issued by the
Director. Amateur station antenna permits are not transferable and shall
automatically expire when the person issued the permit no longer owns the
property involved or the license from the FCC is no longer valid. The Director
shall not issue an amateur station antenna permit until the applicant has
presented proof of a current FCC license;
         (f)   All new antenna support structures and attached antennas shall
not exceed 90 feet in height above ground level. The tower and antenna shall
meet the setback requirements for the zoning district in which it is located
and shall require an additional setback of one foot for every foot the tower
and antenna exceeds the height limits of the zoning district in which it is
located, or if the structure is engineered to collapse under specific wind
loads, and fall within a specified fall-zone, the fall-zone shall be the
minimum required setback, when supported by a sealed letter from the engineer;
         (g)   The tower and antenna shall be installed in the rear of the
parcel and shall meet all local, state and federal regulations and manufacturer
specifications. Guy wires, if used, shall meet the setback requirements of the
underlying zoning district;
         (h)   Temporary mobile services providing public information coverage
of news events;
         (i)   Minor modifications of existing WCF and attached WCF, whether
emergency or routine, provided there is little or no change in the visual
appearance; and
         (j)   Minor modifications are those modifications, including the
addition of antennas, to conforming wireless and attached WCF that meet the
performance standards set forth in this document. Antennas and equipment
cabinets or rooms completely located inside of structures and whose purpose is
to enhance communications within the structures.
      (5)   Performance standards and requirements.
         (a)   Construction standards. All commercial WCF and antenna support
structures shall be certified by a licensed engineer to be structurally sound
and in conformance with applicable building code(s).
         (b)   Natural resource protection standards. The location of the WCF
shall comply with all-natural resource protection standards established either
in this chapter or in other applicable county, state and federal regulations,
including those for flood plains, wetlands, groundwater protection, escarpments
and steep slopes.
         (c)   Color and appearance standards. All WCF shall blend into the
surrounding environment through the use of color and camouflaging architectural
treatment, except where the color is otherwise dictated by the FCC or FAA.
         (d)   Advertising prohibited. No advertising is permitted anywhere
upon or attached to a WCF.
         (e)   Illumination of antenna support structures. Antenna support
structures/towers shall not be illuminated by artificial means and shall not
display strobe lights unless such lighting is specifically required by the FAA
or other federal or state authority.
         (f)   Co-location. All WCF shall be subject to the co-location
requirements set forth in division (CC)(6).
         (g)   Abandonment. All WCF shall be subject to the abandonment
requirements set forth in division (CC)(7).
         (h)   Setback requirements for WCF:
            1.   Minimum setbacks for these facilities are the same as
underlying zoning districts, or as specified in subsection (4)(f) above for
fall-zones.
            2.   Broadcast and other facilities. For zoning districts CBD, MU,
C-1, C-2, SC, BP and IP, the setback requirements are 30% of the support
structure height, but not less than the minimum setbacks of the underlying
zoning district.
            3.   Guy wires. Setbacks for guy wires are the same as the minimum
setbacks for the underlying zoning district.
            4.   Security enclosure required. All towers and equipment shelters
shall be enclosed either completely or individual as determined by the
Director. The city and co-located carriers shall have reasonable access. No
fence shall be required on top of a building or other structure if access to
the roof or top of the structure or building is secure. Dependent on the
location, plants or landscaping may be required as a buffer around the
perimeter of the security enclosure as deemed appropriate by the Director.
            5.   Existing vegetation. Existing vegetation shall be preserved to
the maximum extent possible.
      (6)   Co-location requirements.
         (a)   Any antenna support structure/tower erected for commercial
purposes shall be designed to permit future co-location abilities. No proposed
antenna support structure/tower shall be erected unless such structure is
capable of supporting a minimum of one additional carrier's WCF.
         (b)   Commercial carriers who own an existing support structure shall
negotiate in good faith with other carriers that request co-location. Documents
showing good faith efforts to co-locate shall be provided to the Director.
         (c)   Carriers who co-locate on an approved antenna support structure
are not subject to the conditional use permit requirements of this section. The
application may be approved by the Director if all other requirements of this
section are met.
      (7)   Abandoned facilities. A WCF shall be considered abandoned after 60
consecutive days of non-use where the city may seek to revoke the conditional
use permit or abate the structure in accordance with §
152.109.
      (8)   Application process.
         (a)   Applications for WCF and major additions or modifications to
existing facilities shall include:
            1.   One electronic PDF copy and two copies of the proposed site
plan specifying the location and legal description of the site and WCF: on site
land uses and zoning; adjacent roadways; access; utilities; parking; vegetation
and landscaping to be added, retained, replaced or removed; setbacks; and all
related improvements and equipment.
            2.   A vicinity map specifying adjacent properties, land uses,
zoning and roadways within 300 feet of the proposed facility. Elevation
drawings of the proposed facility specifying all antennas, antenna support
structures / towers, structures, equipment facilities, fencing, screening,
landscaping, lighting, utilities and other improvements related to the
facility, specifying materials, placement and colors.
            3.   Photorealistic image of the proposed site after antenna
support structure erection demonstrating the true impact of the facility on the
surrounding visual environment may be requested by the Director from specific
vantage points. This requirement does not apply to facilities permitted under
the administrative review process, unless requested by the Director.
            4.   A report shall be prepared describing the facility and why it
is needed, the technical and economic reasons for the site design and location,
and the quantity of antenna arrays the structure can support.
         (b)   A report shall be prepared that addresses the following
evaluation criteria:
            1.   Description of the facility and why it is needed;
            2.   Technical and economic reasons for the site design and
location; and
            3.   The total number of antenna the structure can support.
         (c)   A detailed inventory of all the carrier's existing and approved
facilities within the city and within five miles of the corporate boundaries.
      (9)   Application review.
         (a)   Administrative review. Applications for proposed camouflaged WCF
and co-location of WCF which do not change the antenna support structure height
are subject to administrative review. The applications shall be examined for
conformance with the requirements in this section by the Director who shall
within 21 days of receipt of the application, render a decision to approve,
deny or delay approval of the proposed WCF. Any decision to delay approval or
deny a request shall be in writing and shall include specific reasons for the
action. If the applicant has not been notified in writing of a decision after
21 days the application will be deemed approved. A decision by the Director may
be appealed by the applicant within 30 days to the Board of Adjustment. The fee
for administrative review of a proposed wireless facility shall be collected
when the application is submitted.
         (b)   Except for administrative review of camouflaged facilities and
co-location of facilities in accordance with §
152.095, all proposals for WCF shall be processed under the requirements of §
152.091, as deemed applicable by the Director.
         (c)   Access control and emergency contact. No Trespassing signs shall
be posted around the WCF as deemed appropriate, along with any emergency
contact telephone numbers.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.046 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to identify and regulate
accessory buildings, structures and uses in all zoning districts that are
incidental and customarily subordinate to principal uses.
   (B)   Establishment of accessory buildings, structures and uses.
      (1)   All principal uses allowed in a zoning district shall be allowed to
include the accessory buildings, uses, structures, and activities typically
associated with the use as described in the principal uses definition provided
in §§
152.035 through
152.037, unless otherwise specifically prohibited within this section.
      (2)   Accessory buildings, uses or structures not specifically defined
within this code, shall be subject to §§
152.026(C)(7) and
152.027(C)(7).
      (3)   No accessory building, structure, use or conditional use, shall be
erected or permitted on any lot or parcel until the principal building or use
has been established or erected; unless both are being established and erected
simultaneously.
   (C)   General development standards for accessory buildings, structures and
uses.
      (1)   Unless otherwise expressly stated, accessory buildings, structures
and uses are subject to the same lot and building regulations as principal uses
and buildings.
      (2)   Accessory structures and uses should be similar in color to the
principal structure.
      (3)   Accessory buildings and structures, except for accessory dwelling
units defined in §
152.046(F)(1), shall not be used for living or sleeping quarters.
      (4)   If the principal building or use is destroyed, removed or ceases to
exist, the utilization of the accessory building or use shall no longer be
allowed.
      (5)   In the case of any conflict between the accessory building, use or
structure standards of this section and any other requirement of this code, the
more restrictive standards shall control.
   (D)   Location standards for accessory buildings, structures and uses.
      (1)   Accessory uses and structures must be operated and maintained under
the same ownership and located on the same lot as the principal use to which
they are accessory, unless otherwise expressly stated.
      (2)   Accessory buildings, uses or structures shall not be erected in any
right-of-way, easement, or required street side or front yard setback.
      (3)   No accessory building or structure shall be located within six feet
if fire rated, and ten feet if not fire rated of the site's principal building.
If attached by any part of a common wall or covered roof to the principal
building, said accessory building or structure shall be deemed a part of the
principal building and shall conform to the development standards of the
principal building.
      (4)   Accessory structures may be attached or detached from the principal
building in accordance with all applicable building and fire codes.
      (5)   The accessory building, structure or use shall have a setback of at
least three feet if fire rated and five feet if not fire rated from every side
and rear property line, except that the setback shall be the same as required
for the zoning district where the principal building is located when the
accessory building or structure exceeds 15 feet in height.
         (a)   Exceptions. The following structures are exempt from the setback
requirements:
            1.   Movable structures, for single-family residential lots, such
as children's play equipment, trash enclosures, tool sheds, and pet shelters
may be placed within a required rear or side yard setback without limitation on
location, provided in no event shall the roof of said structures be designed to
allow water to drain onto adjacent property.
      (6)   In the RE-1A and RE-2A zoning districts, the accessory building,
use or structure shall have a setback of at least three feet if fire rated and
five feet if not fire rated from the side and rear property lines, or the front
setback if allowed to locate in the required front yard.
   (E)   Size standards for accessory buildings and structures.
      (1)   The maximum gross floor area of any accessory building or structure
shall not exceed that of the principal building. This provision shall not apply
in the RE-1A and RE-2A, Commercial or Industrial Zoning Districts.
      (2)   The sum area of all principal and accessory buildings/structures
shall not exceed the maximum lot coverage requirements established by this
code.
   (F)   Additional standards for specific accessory buildings, structures and
uses.
      (1)   Accessory dwelling unit detached (ADU).
         (a)   No more than one detached ADU may be located on any residential
lot.
         (b)   A detached ADU shall be permitted in any residential zoning
district where the lot has a minimum of 6,000 square feet or more in area, the
lot coverage maximum is not exceeded by all structures, all required setbacks
are met, and the minimum distance from other structures is adhered to due to
the fire rating of structures. For attached dwelling units see Duplexes and
Multi-family development standards. The ADU exterior design shall be compatible
with the principal building, as approved by the Director or designee.
         (c)   Mobile and manufactured homes and recreational vehicles shall
not be used as accessory ADUs.
         (d)   The ADU and the principal residence shall share the same utility
meters.
         (e)   At least one additional off-street parking space shall be
provided for each ADU.
      (2)   Watchman's quarters (WQ). In order to provide increased security
within the industrial zoning districts a watchman's quarters (WQ) may be
provided as an accessory use under the following conditions:
         (a)   WQs shall only be permitted within the BP, SC and IP zoning
districts subject to approval of a conditional use permit. Before granting a
CUP, the Council shall determine there is a direct link to the principal use
and there is a bona fide need for the increased residential presence.
Additional conditions of approval beyond those listed in this section may be
required to ensure compatibility with adjacent uses;
         (b)   The WQs must clearly be accessory to the principal use, which
must also be active at the time of CUP application and approval;
         (c)   Only one WQ per lot shall be permitted;
         (d)   WQs shall be attached and an integral part of the principal
building and may not exceed 40% of the total building floor area, with a
maximum quarter's size of 1,000 square feet;
         (e)   WQs shall meet fire code, residential building code and any
other applicable codes or regulations;
         (f)   A WQ shall consist of separate sleeping, kitchen, and bathroom
facilities, and shall not be considered an accessory dwelling unit;
         (g)   There shall be no payment of rent by the occupant of the
quarters;
         (h)   The WQs and principal building shall share utility meters;
         (i)   At least one additional off-street parking space shall be
provided for a WQ; and
         (j)   If principal building or use is destroyed or ceases to exist,
use of the WQ shall also cease.
      (3)   Store/stay quarters (SSQ).
         (a)   SSQ shall only be permitted for individual storage spaces
located within an indoor storage (boat, RV) facility in the C-2 and SC zoning
districts subject to approval of a conditional use permit.
         (b)   A SSQ conditional use permit shall only be issued to the owner
of the storage facility.
         (c)   SSQs shall only be used by the storage facility owner, family
member, or a registered lessee.
         (d)   SSQs shall not be occupied more than 120 days per calendar year.
         (e)   SSQ shall not exceed 25% of the storage unit's gross floor area,
with a maximum SSQ size of 800 square feet.
         (f)   SSQs shall not at any time be used as a vacation rental, or any
other type of rental.
         (g)   SSQs shall meet fire and building codes and any other applicable
codes or regulations.
         (h)   Owner shall sign an acknowledgement that the use is in a non-
residential zoning district, in which there may be noise and traffic commonly
associated with service type commercial uses.
         (i)   Any additional parking needs shall be provided off-street.
         (j)   There shall be no outdoor yard, patio, deck, or living space.
         (k)   The exterior of all SSQs, buildings and individual units shall
be clearly marked with a city-provided address to city specifications.
      (4)   Employee/contractor quarters (ECQ).
         (a)   ECQs shall only be permitted as an accessory use in Service
Commercial (SC) and Industrial Park (IP) Districts subject to the approval of a
conditional use permit.
         (b)   ECQs shall be provided by the employer only and operated in
direct connection with the principal use, which must be active at the time of
CUP application and approval. ECQs shall not be converted to any other use
without prior approval of an amendment to the CUP.
         (c)   ECQs shall not ever be used as a vacation or any other type of
rental.
         (d)   ECQs shall meet fire and building codes and any other applicable
codes or regulations.
         (e)   The minimum floor area used for sleeping purposes shall be 50
square feet for each occupant.
         (f)   At least one additional parking space per unit or three beds,
whichever is more, shall be provided.
         (g)   ECQ shall be occupied for less than six months per calendar
year.
         (h)   If the principal use is destroyed, removed or ceases to exist,
the use of the ECQ shall also cease.
      (5)   Cargo containers.
         (a)   Please note: this section does not prevent the use of cargo
containers for construction. Refer to the building code for allowed building
materials.
         (b)   Cargo containers are permitted as an accessory use in Community
Commercial (C-2), Service Commercial (SC), Industrial Park (IP) and Airport
Property subject to the following conditions:
            1.   A building permit shall be obtained prior to installing a
cargo container as a permanent accessory use. Temporary placement and use of
cargo containers by licensed contractors for transport and temporary storage in
conformance with permitted uses does not require a building permit.
            2.   Cargo containers shall be located on the side or rear of the
principal building and must meet all development standards for the applicable
zoning district and all applicable fire and building codes.
            3.   Cargo containers may not occupy any required off-street
parking spaces except for temporary use during permitted construction
activities.
            4.   Cargo containers may not be stacked, except when used for
cargo purposes in the IP District.
            5.   Cargo containers shall not be connected to any utilities,
without approval from the city.
            6.   Cargo containers shall be painted in an earth tone color,
shall not be used for advertisement, and shall be screened from public view
with landscaping or an opaque screen wall/fence, as determined by the Director.
            7.   Containers designed for storage that appear to be cargo
containers, but don't meet the specifications for commercial shipping, packing
or transportation of freight, shall comply with the requirements of this
section.
      (6)   Domesticated animals.
         (a)   Permitted in any zone: The keeping, in connection with each
permitted dwelling, of not more than three pets, such as dogs, cats, and
similar household pets, exclusive of animals under the age of six months, and
exclusive of birds, fish and other pets which are always kept within a fully
enclosed building or accessory building and which do not create odor or sound
beyond the property boundaries.
         (b)   The keeping of large livestock is allowed in the RE-2A and RE-1A
zoning districts. Large livestock shall be limited to four animals per acre.
Any shelter, stables, stalls, corrals, or pens for the animals shall adhere to
the same development standards as required for the principal use in the
applicable zoning district.
         (c)   Chicken hens and pullet are allowed in all residential zoning
districts subject to any applicable health, sanitation, and nuisance laws.
Roosters shall only be allowed in the RE-2A and RE-1A zoning districts.
Chickens shall be kept within enclosed coops, pens, or cages that comply with
all applicable accessory provisions of §
152.046. All lots under 10,000 square feet shall be limited to no more than
five chickens per lot. Water used to clean coops, pens, or cages shall not be
allowed to flow onto adjacent properties.
         (d)   Places where animals are kept shall be maintained so that flies,
insects, vermin, rodents, odors, ponded water, the accumulation of manure,
garbage, refuse or other noxious material does not disturb the peace, comfort,
or health of any person.
         (e)   No person shall keep or maintain any poisonous reptile, or
dangerous, carnivorous, wild exotic animal without having approval from the
Arizona Game and Fish Department and meeting all county and city animal control
regulations.
      (7)   Home occupations (HO). A HO shall be considered a permitted
accessory use in all residential zoning districts provided they don't change
the character of the surrounding residential area by generating more traffic,
noise, odors, visual impacts, or storage of materials than would normally be
expected in a residential neighborhood, and it complies with the following
guidelines:
         (a)   All HOs shall be clearly incidental and subordinate to the
principal use of the property as a residential home. A city business
registration shall be maintained annually for the HO use.
         (b)   Each dwelling unit shall be limited to one permitted HO. Any
additional HOs shall require a conditional use permit.
         (c)   All HOs shall be conducted entirely from within the principal
residence or enclosed and approved accessory buildings, except for HOs that
require the use of accessory structures as allowed within the subject zoning
district (i.e. the use of swimming pools for swimming lessons, play structures
for day care, or horse corrals for horseback riding lessons) as long as they do
not create any type of nuisance for neighboring properties.
         (d)   Areas devoted to the HO use shall maintain a residential
character and appearance.
         (e)   There shall be no employees of the HO other than persons
residing in the dwelling unit where the HO is conducted.
         (f)   There shall be no external evidence of the HO such as increased
traffic, noise, dust, odors, fumes, vibration, electrical interference or
fluctuation or other nuisances discernible beyond the property lines than would
normally be experienced in a residential neighborhood.
         (g)   A HO shall not be conducted in a way that is perceptible beyond
the property lines between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., to include any
loading/unloading of vehicles on the property or nearby street or alley that
causes noise to adjoining residents.
         (h)   There shall be no use of show windows, business display or
advertising visible from the exterior of the building, except as is
specifically permitted in §
152.058, that indicates the premises are being used in part for any purpose
other than a dwelling.
         (i)   The HO shall not result in excess generation of solid waste or
use of utilities and public facilities in amounts greater than normal for
residential use.
         (j)   Any parking incidental to the HO shall be provided only in the
residential driveway, subject to compliance with the off-street parking
requirements of §
152.056.
         (k)   The HO shall not park or store more than two vehicles having a
gross vehicle weight over 10,000 pounds on the lot or adjacent streets at any
time. However, in the RE-2A and RE-1A zoning districts, the parking and storage
of up to two vehicles, directly related to the HO, with a gross vehicle weight
of more than 10,000 pounds shall be allowed within a fully screened side or
rear yard.
         (l)   Storage of goods and materials necessary for the HO shall be
fully enclosed within a building or structure.
         (m)   The following are examples of uses which would be acceptable as
a HOs provided they comply with the above regulations:
            1.   Home offices with little or no client visits to the home;
            2.   Catering for off-site consumption;
            3.   Personal services such as a beauty shop, barbershop, and
seamstress;
            4.   Artists, sculptors, jewelry makers, and composers not selling
their artistic product to the general public on the premises;
            5.   Fine arts lessons (music, art, crafts, dance), tutoring and
swimming lessons;
            6.   Tax preparation;
            7.   Online businesses, computer programing and software
development; and
            8.   Day care (maximum of four persons).
         (n)   A HO shall not include, but shall not be limited to, the
following uses:
            1.   Medical offices, clinics, and laboratories, except for
psychologists, speech therapists, acupuncturists, and other professionals with
one-on-one counseling, therapy, or treatment that do not exceed six clients
within 24 hours;
            2.   Motor vehicle sales, repair, painting, storage, restoration or
conversion, engine repair or similar uses conducted outside and/or on vehicles
not registered to a person currently residing at the home;
            3.   Veterinarian office or animal care kennels or boarding
facilities. Except in the RE-2A and RE-1A zoning districts such uses may be
permitted by conditional use permit;
            4.   Welding or machine shop;
            5.   Restaurants; or
            6.   Body piercing and/or tattoo studio.
         (o)   Complaints by local residents may be cause for termination of
the home occupation.
            1.   All complaints or violation of the above conditions shall be
registered with the City Code Compliance Officer and reviewed by the Director.
            2.   The burden of proof shall be upon the HO owner to prove that
the standards of this section are being met, especially regarding possible
nuisances and traffic.
            3.   If appropriate measures cannot be undertaken to mitigate the
complaint or violations, the Director may determine that a particular type or
intensity of use is unsuitable to be a HO and require termination of the use.
Appeals of the Director's decision can be made to the Board of Adjustment.
      (8)   Outdoor display and sales.
         (a)   Outdoor display and/or sale of merchandise may be allowed as an
accessory use for all commercial, mixed-use and industrial uses, provided that
the display meets the following guidelines and regulations:
            1.   Outdoor display and/or sale areas shall be clearly defined on
a site plan and approved by the Director and may be subject to appropriate
conditions by the Director to ensure compliance with the provisions herein.
            2.   Exceptions. A permanent outdoor retail display area which is
an integral part of a business, including but not limited to, garden centers
and auto, boat, and RV dealership display lots shall obtain site plan approval
with all applicable development/improvements.
         (b)   Shall be a fixed location that does not encroach upon or disrupt
the normal function of the site or its circulation, or the required driveways,
landscaped areas, parking lots, sidewalks, loading zones, or fire lanes.
Displays shall not obstruct any entrance to a building or traffic safety sight
areas or otherwise create hazards for pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
         (c)   Display/sale of goods shall not be in any public right-of-way.
         (d)   Shall directly relate to a business occupying the same site, and
shall display only goods of the primary business, unless associated with a non-
profit organization.
         (e)   Shall be limited to the business hours of operation and be
portable and removed from public view at the close of each business day, unless
otherwise permitted through the site plan review process.
         (f)   No merchandise shall be affixed to the exterior of a building or
displayed to impede or interfere with the reasonable use of the store front
windows for display purposes.
         (g)   Shall be managed so that display structures and goods are always
maintained in a clean and neat condition, and in good repair.
         (h)   All signage shall adhere to §
152.058.
      (9)   Outdoor storage. Outdoor storage associated with a commercial on-
site primary use is permitted subject to the following conditions; however, the
provisions of this section shall not apply to outdoor storage associated with
industrial or agricultural uses:
         (a)   Storage areas must be fully screened from view by an opaque
fence or concrete/masonry block wall no less than six feet, but no more than
eight feet in height. A landscaped earthen berm may be used instead of or in
combination with a required fence or wall;
         (b)   The storage area screen fence/wall shall incorporate exterior
colors and/or finishes to match the primary building;
         (c)   Stored materials shall not exceed the height of the lowest
screen fence/wall, except as provided elsewhere in this chapter;
         (d)   Storage area gates must be opaque;
         (e)   Storage areas shall be paved with concrete, asphalt, pavers, or
gravel;
         (f)   Storage areas shall not be located within a required off-street
parking or loading area; and
         (g)   No storage of any items may occur within the front or street
side yard building setback.
      (10)   Outdoor musical entertainment. Outdoor musical entertainment is
permitted in non-residential zones subject to the following:
         (a)   A business or property desirous of providing outdoor musical
entertainment shall be required to obtain a conditional use permit, which for
this use is only applicable to the specific business/property identified and
shall not be transferable. A new conditional use permit shall be obtained if
the business/property is sold, leased, or conveyed by the permittee; or if the
permittee moves to a new location, where a new CUP would then be required.
         (b)   Outdoor musical entertainment conditional use permits shall be
subject to an annual review, based on the initial approval date, to ensure the
use is conducted in accordance with all terms, conditions and restrictions of
this chapter, the approved CUP or any other applicable laws. If the use is
found to be in compliance, the CUP is allowed to continue. Any use found to be
in violation of the terms, conditions, or restrictions of this chapter, the CUP
or any other applicable laws shall be subject to revocation and scheduled for a
formal public hearing in accordance with §§
152.058 through
152.096. Following the formal public hearing process, the City Council may
elect to renew, renew with additional stipulations, or revoke the CUP.
         (c)   Amplified outdoor musical entertainment, live or recorded, shall
not be permitted within 600 feet of a single-family residentially zoned
property and all stages and amplification devices shall also be pointed to
direct sound away from any residential uses.
         (d)   Outdoor musical entertainment will not be permitted within
public rights-of-way.
         (e)   Outdoor musical entertainment will be limited to the hours of 8:
00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m.
         (f)   No retail or wholesale over-the-counter sale of goods or
products are permitted to be sold in conjunction with the entertainment, other
than the products or service being provided by the permitted business, unless
accompanied by an Arizona Transaction Privilege Tax License.
         (g)   Outdoor exhibitions or shows will not use any flammable or
explosive items, fireworks, electronic light displays, or laser-operated
device, without first being permitted in advance for such use by the City Fire
Department.
         (h)   Outdoor musical entertainment shall be restricted to music or
singing which is not excessive or disturbing to the community as prescribed by
§
130.10.
         (i)   If the sound is of sufficient volume and duration that it would
cause discomfort or annoyance to a reasonable person of normal sensitivities,
such volume and/or durations shall be prohibited.
      (11)   Outdoor vehicle parking and storage. The intent of outdoor vehicle
parking and storage standards is to protect the health, safety, and welfare and
ensure neighborliness and aesthetic quality for the local residents and
business owners in accordance with the following standards:
         (a)   Non-Residential Districts. The on-site outdoor storage of any
personal vehicles, commercial vehicles, a boat and trailer, recreation vehicle,
motor home, truck tractor, semi-trailer, trailer or equipment of a similar
nature when it is not associated with the business of the property shall be
prohibited in the front setback area. Storage of such personal vehicles is
permissible in an interior side or rear yard when screened by an opaque six
foot tall fence, wall or landscape barrier.
         (b)   Residential Districts.
            1.   No person shall store any vehicle not owned or leased by that
person or a member of that person's family, or household, on any residentially
zoned property.
            2.   In all residential districts, it shall be prohibited for any
person to park or store any personal vehicle having a gross vehicle weight
rating (GVWR) exceeding 14,000 pounds, except:
               a.   Temporary parking, not to exceed 72 hours, is permitted for
the purpose of delivery or the loading/unloading of household or permitted home
occupation related goods;
               b.   There shall be no GVWR limit for any personal vehicle
parked in the side, street side, or rear yard setback area when screened by an
opaque six foot tall fence, wall, and/or landscape barrier;
               c.   Parking and storage of recreational vehicles shall be
subject to §
152.046(F)(14); and
               d.   Parking in residential districts shall also be subject to §
152.056(J).
            3.   In all residential districts, parking, but not storage in
excess of 72 hours, of a commercial vehicle shall be limited to one commercial
vehicle with a maximum GVWR of 14,000 pounds in the front yard setback area.
      (12)   Vehicle service. No person shall dismantle, repair, restore or
otherwise perform any work on any vehicle, machine, motor, or similar device
not owned or leased by that person or a member of that person's family, or
household, on any property in a residential district. In addition, any work
performed beyond basic maintenance (tune-ups, sendee of fluids, replacement of
minor parts) shall be:
         (a)   Incidental to a permitted use and wholly within a wholly
enclosed garage or carport, except lots located in Blocks 55-80 and 92-93, but
not including Block 75A, shall be permitted on a paved surface; or
         (b)   Completely within a paved concrete, asphalt, pavers, or gravel
area wholly enclosed from the view of surrounding properties and rights-of-way
by a solid structural barrier, either an enclosed building or a six foot high
wall or fence of ornamental block, brick, wood, or any combination thereof.
      (13)   Inoperable or unregistered vehicles. Any personal, commercial and/
or personal recreational vehicles, motor homes, utility trailers, camp
trailers, boats and similar equipment which is inoperable and/or unregistered
shall be parked or stored consistent with the following standards:
         (a)   Parking of operable vehicles, trailers, and vessels with
registration expired three months or less is permissible under a carport, in a
garage, or in an interior paved concrete, asphalt, pavers, or gravel side yard
or rear yard area when screened by an opaque six-foot-tall fence, wall or
landscape barrier. No parking of inoperable or unregistered vehicles shall be
allowed in the required front or street side yard setback.
         (b)   Inoperable vehicles, trailers, and vessels and/or those
vehicles, trailers, and vessels with registration expired for a period greater
than three months shall be stored in a garage or an interior paved concrete,
asphalt, pavers, or gravel side yard or rear yard area when screened by an
opaque six-foot-tall fence, wall or landscape barrier. No parking of inoperable
or unregistered vehicles shall be allowed in the required front or street side
yard setback.
      (14)   Recreational vehicle parking and storage. The parking and/or
storage of recreational vehicles, campers, travel trailers, motor homes, boats
and personal recreational vehicles and trailers is permitted on any residential
lot, subject to the following:
         (a)   Such equipment shall adhere to the provisions of §§
152.046(F)(11) and
152.056(J).
         (b)   Parking or storing in a required front or street side yard
setback shall be prohibited unless all of the following conditions exist:
            1.   The vehicle does not exceed a gross vehicle weight rating
(GVWR) of 14,000 pounds;
            2.   The vehicle is parked on the designated driveway that provides
direct access to the garage from the street or on an improved area having an
asphalt, concrete, rock, gravel or other similar all-weather surface which is
intended for the parking of vehicles;
            3.   The vehicle does not extend over a sidewalk or street;
            4.   The vehicle is fully operable and legally registered; and
            5.   No more than two such vehicles or trailers are parked or
stored in the combined front or street side yard setbacks.
         (c)   There shall be no GVWR limit for any such equipment parked or
stored in the side, street side, or rear yard setbacks when screened by an
opaque six-foot-tall fence, wall, and/or landscape barrier as approved by the
Director. Such equipment shall be parked or stored to maintain a minimum three-
foot clearance on at least one side yard for emergency access.
         (d)   Temporary parking of recreational vchicles/trailers or
recreational vehicles that exceed a gross vehicle weight of 14,000 pounds in a
required front or side yard setback or driveway is permitted for loading/
unloading or repairs for no more than 72 hours within any seven consecutive
days. The Director may authorize a longer period if an emergency exists, up to
a maximum of five days.
         (e)   Such equipment shall be prohibited for human occupancy as a
permanent residence. Temporary occupancy is allowed for periods of no more than
72 hours within any seven consecutive days. Any temporary occupancy that
exceeds this allowed period shall be required to obtain a temporary occupancy
permit from the Planning and Zoning Department and shall be limited to four
weeks per any 12-month period. See §
152.047 for additional provisions and exceptions.
         (f)   Such equipment shall not be used for storage of goods,
materials, or equipment other than those items considered to be a part of the
recreational vehicle or essential for its use as a recreational vehicle.
      (15)   Alternative energy systems (AESs).
         (a)   AESs, other than utility-scale (major) electrical generating
facilities, may be administratively approved as an accessory use within any
zoning district, subject to approval of a building permit and meeting any
applicable federal, state, county or city regulations.
         (b)   AESs may be located on a parcel in a manner consistent with all
development standards or accessory structure regulations in the respective
zoning district in which the parcel is located.
         (c)   As part of the building permit review process, the Chief
Building Official may require that design plans and an engineering report (e.g.
mechanical/electrical/structural), prepared and certified by an Arizona
licensed professional engineer, be included as a part of the building permit
submittal package.
         (d)   Any part of the AES that creates or generates any nuisance
beyond the subject property, including but not limited to any noxious fumes,
heat, glare, reflection, flickering, strobing, and/or interference with
electronic equipment of any household devices, such as television, radio,
computer, internet and/or cell phone reception is prohibited.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.047 TEMPORARY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Purpose. This section allows for the establishment of temporary uses
and/or activities that might not meet the normal development or use standards
of the applicable zoning district but may be considered acceptable because of
their temporary nature. These activities are regulated to ensure that basic
health, safety, and community welfare standards are met, while also ensuring
compatibility is maintained between the proposed activity and surrounding
areas.
   (B)   Temporary use approval. All allowed temporary uses shall obtain a
temporary use permit (TUP), (unless otherwise stated in section (C) below or
exempt as in section (D) below), pursuant to §
152.092, of this chapter and provided that the temporary use complies with the
standards and/or conditions specified below.
   (C)   Allowed temporary uses and structures. All temporary uses and
structures, unless otherwise specified, shall comply with the dimensional and
development standards of the zoning districts in which they are located. In the
case of any conflict, the more restrictive standards, as determined by the
Director, shall apply.
      (1)   A construction trailer is to be permitted in any zoning district
during the construction of a permanent building or structure when a building
permit is in effect, provided the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The uses are associated with the property where the subdivision
or project is located.
         (b)   Off-street parking shall be provided for the office and
construction staff.
         (c)   Such structures and uses shall be located on the site no more
than 30 days prior to the start of construction and removed no more than 30
days after completion of the project or expiration of the approved TUP,
whichever occurs first. Unless satisfactory evidence is provided by the
property owner/contractor justifying the need for the extension of these time
limitations, as approved by the Director.
         (d)   The construction trailer/yard complex shall be permitted for no
longer than one year from the date of such approval and may be renewed for like
periods thereafter upon submittal of satisfactory evidence from the property
owner indicating that the need for the use continues to exist on the property.
      (2)   A temporary sales office, leasing office or model home may be
permitted, provided the following conditions are met:
         (a)   Such offices shall be located on the property being offered for
sale or lease. The temporary structures use shall be limited to the sale or
lease of on-site subdivided lots, dwelling units, or other types of on-site
real property.
         (b)   Off-street parking shall be provided for the sales office and/or
model home.
         (c)   All structures must meet all building code and permit
requirements for the appropriate category of construction.
         (d)   Any (TUP) approved for such office shall be limited to a period
not to exceed two years from the date of issue and said permit may be renewed
for like periods thereafter if the real property being offered for sale or
lease on the site has not been sold or leased.
         (e)   Upon sale of the development, cessation of the need for the use
(90% buildout) or termination of the TUP, whichever comes first, all
modifications to structures and uses shall be removed.
      (3)   Carnivals, circuses, concerts, revivals, rodeos and similar
activities may be permitted, provided the following conditions are met:
         (a)   A TUP (private property) shall be obtained or special event
permit when event is on city property.
         (b)   Staff shall ensure that health and fire safety is considered and
shall solicit the comments of the County Health Department and Fire Chief/
Marshal as necessary.
         (c)   Staff shall ensure that land area is adequate for the proposed
use's parking; and shall ensure that traffic control and safety is considered.
         (d)   Staff shall require measures to adequately protect surrounding
properties.
         (e)   Permanent structures shall not be allowed.
         (f)   A special events permit or a TUP shall pertain to the allowable
activity permitted during the time limit of the permit. A change in ownership
or sponsor for the same activity during the time limit of the permit shall not
constitute grounds for extending the time granted for the activity in the
original permit.
      (4)   Outdoor vendor may be permitted, provided the following conditions
are met:
         (a)   The provisions of this division shall not apply to any event
located on city owned property or authorized by any other permit issued by the
city, such as a farmer’s market, temporary; an authorized festival; very short
duration, primarily non-profit uses such as lemonade and Girl Scout cookie
stands; a school facility or recreational event if the vendor is in partnership
with the organization conducting the event and is located on the event site.
         (b)   Outdoor vendors shall only be permitted to operate on city
specified property or on private property in commercial and mixed-use zoning
districts or the SC zoning district.
         (c)   Outdoor vending businesses are considered to be temporary in
nature and are not to be placed in a permanent way on a property.
         (d)   Outdoor vending will only be permitted on properties that are
established with principal uses.
         (e)   All signs shall be affixed to the vending cart, vehicle, stand
or stall. Stand-alone signs on any one side of the cart, vehicle, stand or
stall, shall be approved as part of the TUP process. This type of sign will not
require the issuance of a separate sign permit.
         (f)   Vending carts, vehicles, stands or stalls shall not block a
driveway, sidewalk or other point of emergency vehicular access, including
emergency access points.
         (g)   Vending carts, vehicles, stands or stalls shall be located
outside any public sidewalk or nine feet from any street edge unless otherwise
permitted. If located near a street intersection, the vending cart, vehicle,
stand or stall must maintain a visible and unobscured sight triangle per city
code.
         (h)   Vending carts, vehicles, stands or stalls located in parking
areas shall not reduce the number of parking spaces required for the principal
use. Additional off-street parking spaces must be provided for all employees of
the outdoor vending operation unless employees arrive in the vending cart or
vehicle.
         (i)   Vending carts, vehicles, stands or stalls shall provide
provisions for proper collection and disposal of all solid waste generated by
their operation.
         (j)   Vending carts, vehicles, stands or stalls must be constructed of
durable and high-quality materials and stay maintained in good condition and
repair and any that fall into disrepair shall be replaced or removed at the
request of the Director.
         (k)   The outdoor vending TUP will be conducted with proper licensing,
certification and registration required under the State of Arizona, Coconino
County and the city, if and when required.
         (l)   Every applicant, before being granted a permit for outdoor
vending shall submit the following:
            1.   An application form with the required annual fee which is
subject to be changed by City Council as needed, and information providing
support that the vending operation is in conformance with the regulations
outlined in this section.
            2.   The annual business registration for a vending business from
the City Clerk's office, and the owner's state tax license number.
            3.   If permit will be on city property, proof of liability
insurance for $ 1,000,000 with the city listed as additionally insured.
            4.   Notarized property owner authorization (if applicable) with a
written scope of work for project.
            5.   An aerial map of the site and a site plan showing the location
of the proposed use and structures, parking configuration, and any other
details showing how the use will conform to the TUP requirements.
         (m)   Approval, renewal, and revocation.
            1.   Outdoor vendor TUP shall be subject to a specified maximum
time of one year and all TUPs must be renewed annually on or before the initial
application date.
            2.   Any use found to be in violation of the terms, conditions, or
restrictions of this chapter, the TUP, or any other applicable laws shall be
subject to revocation.
      (5)   Seasonal and holiday sales, such as Christmas tree or pumpkin sales
on any open lot or parking lot in commercial or industrial zones are limited to
one sale per calendar quarter, lasting no longer than 45 consecutive days of
site occupation and operation.
      (6)   Outdoor arts and crafts show and exhibits subject to not more than
15 days of operation or exhibition in any 90 day period.
      (7)   Outdoor parking lot sale events sponsored by businesses shall be
located on paved areas on the same lot as the structure containing the business
holding the event and are limited to one sale per calendar quarter, lasting no
longer than one week in duration, and they shall not take up more parking
spaces than approved by the Director. Rummage and other outdoor sales sponsored
by local non-profit organizations are limited to one sale in each six month
period.
      (8)   Farmer's market subject to not more than two days of operation per
any seven day period.
      (9)   Produce stands for sale of produce are allowed not more than 36
days per calendar year. Said stands shall not be located within any public
rights-of-way and shall be kept free of litter and debris. The time provisions
of this section do not apply to the sale of produce raised on the premises.
      (10)   A temporary second dwelling unit on a single legal parcel, for
guests, relatives, and/or caretakers in a recreational vehicle, for a period of
no more than four weeks per calendar year. A temporary occupancy permit must be
issued by the Director. The Director may authorize a longer period of time if
an emergency exists, up to a maximum of four additional weeks. There shall be
no extensions allowed and no reapplication permitted within 12 months of the
expiration of such permits. Such temporary second dwelling units shall not be
used as rentals.
      (11)   Other temporary uses or structures may be approved using the
process established in this section.
   (D)   Exempt temporary uses. The following temporary uses and events are
exempt from the requirement for a TUP but may require other city approvals to
ensure public health, safety, and welfare.
      (1)   Garage sales, yard sales, estate sales, and the sale of similar
home-type products, shall be limited to a maximum of three weekends every
quarter in a calendar year per residential location.
      (2)   Events which occur in meeting halls, theaters, or other permanent
indoor or outdoor public assembly facilities shall be subject to all applicable
regulations of this code.
      (3)   Promotional activities related to the primary product lines of a
retail business, and similar activities (e.g. book readings and signings at
book stores, opening receptions at art galleries).
      (4)   Emergency public health and safety activities.
      (5)   Temporary nonprofit or fundraising car washes are permitted in non-
residential districts.
      (6)   City sponsored events.
      (7)   Events held on city owned property shall obtain a special event
permit.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
GENERAL DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
§ 152.055 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   This section includes standards that regulate the physical layout and
design of all development within the city to ensure the protection of the
resident's health, safety, welfare, and quality of life. These provisions
address the physical relationship between development and adjacent properties,
public streets, neighborhoods, and the natural environment, to implement the
general plan vision for a more attractive, efficient, and livable community.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter are complementary and supplementary to
and not in lieu of other provisions of this code. In the event of a conflict
between a provision of this chapter and any more restrictive provision of this
code applicable to a particular development, the more restrictive provision
shall apply.
   (C)   Every activity, operation or land use shall comply with the following
performance standards regardless of the zoning district in which they are
located. The Director is responsible for insuring compliance with these
performance standards and shall invoke the provisions for enforcement of
compliance with these performance standards wherever there is reasonable
evidence that performance standards are being violated.
   (D)   Required public access easements for escarpments, rock-outcroppings,
and mesas. A dedicated fifteen foot (15'-0") wide public access easement, and a
public access easement connecting said easement to a public right-of-way, shall
be provided for public access, utilities and emergency responders on any public
or private property that directly abuts undevelopable natural steep vertical
inclines, such as an escarpment, rock-outcropping, or mesa. Said public access
casement shall be that fifteen foot (15'-0") wide open and drivable path
located as close to the base of the natural obstruction as possible, and along
the entire perimeter, as determined and approved by the Director.
   (E)   Glare and heat. Any activity producing intense glare or heat shall be
mitigated, shielded or performed within an enclosed building so it doesn't
create a nuisance/hazard along or across property lines.
   (F)   Lighting. No light that flashes, strobes, revolves or otherwise
resembles a traffic control or emergency signal shall be allowed in any area
where such light could create a hazard for passing vehicular traffic. All
outdoor lighting shall be installed and maintained in conformance with §
152.059.
   (G)   Fire and explosion hazards. Disposal of waste materials by outdoor
incineration on the premises is expressly prohibited. All storage and other
activities involving flammable and explosive materials shall be provided
adequate safety devices against hazards of combustion and explosion, together
with adequate firefighting and fire suppression equipment and devices and shall
comply with locational requirements established by the Fire Department, this
chapter and/or other relevant city ordinances.
   (H)   Vibration. Every use shall be so operated that the ground vibration
inherently and recurrently generated is not discernible without instruments at
any point beyond the site property line.
   (I)   Air pollution. No owner or occupant of land, whether improved or
unimproved, shall cause or permit unreasonable quantities of smoke, noxious
fumes, gas, soot or cinders to emanate beyond the boundaries of that land
except with a Fire Department burning permit. Use of a home or restaurant
barbeque shall not be considered unreasonable.
   (J)   Liquids and solid waste. No materials, compounds or chemicals that can
contaminate any water supply, interfere with bacterial processes in sewerage
treatment or otherwise cause emission of elements which are offensive or
hazardous to the public health, safety, welfare or comfort shall be discharged
at any point into any public or private sewage disposal system, waterway or
into the ground, except in accordance with the standards approved by the
Arizona State Department of Health and Environmental Services or such
governmental agency as may have jurisdiction over such activities.
   (K)   Odors. No emission of odorous or noxious gases or other matter shall
be permitted as to create a nuisance or hazard beyond the site property lines.
   (L)   Noise. All uses shall comply with the standards established in §
130.10.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.056 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   (A)   Purpose. This section establishes minimum standards for parking and
loading. These standards are intended to promote the general welfare and public
safety by ensuring that an adequate amount of permanent, safe, accessible, and
attractive parking is provided in the city. The parking standards are intended
to provide for adequate ingress and egress by motor vehicles, recreational
vehicles, boats and buses, and comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act
(ADA) standards.
   (B)   Applicability. Every use and structure, including a change or
expansion shall provide accessory parking and loading areas as set forth below.
Except when specifically exempted, the requirements of this section shall also
apply to all parking lots that are the principal use on a site.
      (1)   New buildings and land uses. Off-street parking and loading shall
be provided as required by this section at the time any new building or
structure is erected or any new land use is established.
      (2)   Expansion of existing commercial buildings. When the floor area is
increased, additional off-street parking and loading shall be provided as
required by this section, provided that the existing parking was legally
established and has not been reduced. If the number of existing parking and
loading spaces is greater than the requirements for such use, the excess
parking spaces may be counted toward the parking and loading requirements for
the addition or expansion.
      (3)   Addition of use to existing commercial buildings. When a new use
locates on a parcel with an existing use, all off-street parking shall be
provided to meet the total number of spaces required for the existing use and
the new use, unless the uses meet the requirements of §
152.056(E)(4) or alternative guidelines expressly allowed by other provisions
of this code.
      (4)   Change in use of existing commercial buildings. When a change in
use requires more off-street parking than the previous use, additional parking
and loading spaces shall be provided equivalent to the difference between the
number of spaces required by this section for the immediately previous use and
the total number of spaces required by the new use. A change in occupancy is
not a change in use unless the new occupant is in a different use
classification.
      (5)   Alterations that increase the number of dwelling units. An
alteration that creates additional dwelling units requires added off-street
parking. This requirement does not apply when sufficient off-street parking
exists to meet the requirements for the additional new dwelling units.
      (6)   Parking and loading facilities required by this section shall be
installed prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the uses they
serve.
   (C)   General parking and loading regulations.
      (1)   Parking and loading spaces to be permanent. Parking and loading
spaces shall be permanently available, marked and maintained in good repair/
condition for the use they serve.
      (2)   Reduction in parking area. The owner or occupant of any building or
use subject to off-street parking requirements shall not discontinue or reduce
any existing required parking without first having established other parking
spaces which meet all requirements of this section.
      (3)   Restriction of parking area use. Required off-street parking,
circulation, and access areas shall be used exclusively for the temporary
parking and maneuvering of vehicles. In all commercial zones, parking areas
shall not be used for the sale, lease, display, repair, or storage of vehicles,
trailers, boats, campers, mobile homes, merchandise, or equipment, or for any
other use not authorized by the provisions of this code. In all residential
districts parking shall be restricted per §
152.056(J).
      (4)   Located on same site. Parking and loading facilities shall be
located on the same site with the use the facilities serve or on a contiguous,
identically zoned lot incorporated into the development site. Off-site parking
facilities may be permitted subject to the requirements of §
152.056(E)(5).
      (5)   Located off-street. All parking and loading facilities required by
this section shall be provided off-street and shall not be located within any
public rights-of-way, sidewalk, alley, or parkway, unless expressly allowed by
other provisions of this code.
      (6)   Surplus parking. The provisions of this section shall also apply to
parking and loading facilities provided in excess to those required, unless
otherwise expressly stated in this code.
      (7)   Surfacing and maintenance. All off-street parking shall be paved
with asphalt or concrete and be graded and drained per city engineering
standards as approved by the Public Works Director and be maintained in good
condition free of weeds, and trash. In cases of certifiable short term or
temporary use, parking lot surfaces may be constructed to a lesser standard if
approved during the development review process by the Public Works Director.
   (D)   Number of parking spaces required. Except as otherwise expressly
stated, all commercial off-street vehicle parking spaces must be provided in
accordance with
Table 4.2-1: Parking Spaces Required.
      (1)   Compact car parking spaces. Up to 20% of the required parking
spaces can be designated for compact cars with dimensions of eight feet wide by
16 feet long and each space shall count equally towards the total number of
parking spaces required.
      (2)   Motorcycle parking spaces. Up to two motorcycle parking spaces for
every 50 regular parking spaces may be utilized and shall count equally towards
the total number of parking spaces required.
      (3)   Recreational Vehicle (RV)/truck-boat parking spaces. Up to two RV
parking spaces per every 50 regular parking spaces may be utilized and each RV
space shall count as two regular parking spaces towards the total number of
parking spaces required.
Table 4.2-1: Table of Parking Spaces Required
Use Category Specific Use Type Minimum Vehicle Spaces Required
Table 4.2-1: Table of Parking Spaces Required
Use         Specific Use Type                                                              Minimum Vehicle Spaces Required
Category
            Single-Family Detached and Attached; Modular; Duplex; Manufactured Home        Two spaces per dwelling unit
                                                                                           Studio and one bedroom unit - 1.5 space per unit
            Multi-Family; Residential component of Mixed Use District                      Two bedroom units - 1.5 spaces per unit
                                                                                           Three or more bedroom units - 2 spaces per unit
            Live/Work                                                                      Two spaces per dwelling unit
Residential Manufactured Home Park                                                         Two spaces per dwelling unit + 1 space for every 8 dwelling units/
Use                                                                                        lots for guests
Categories  Recreational Vehicle Park                                                      One space per RV space + 1 space for every 8 RV spaces for guests
            Assisted Living Center                                                         0.5 space per residential room/unit +1 space for every 4 rooms/
                                                                                           units for guests and employees
            Assisted Living Home; Child Care Home; Group Care Home; Resident Care Home     Two spaces +1 space for each non-resident employee
            Boarding/Shelter Care                                                          One space per 3 beds + 1 space per employee
            Nursing Home                                                                   One space per each 4 beds (based on maximum capacity)
Public and  Arboretum or Botanical Garden                                                  See §
Semi-Public                                                                                152.056(D)(3)
Use         Assembly Hall/Auditorium; Community Center; Country Club Library; Fraternal or One space per each 4 fixed seats or 1 space per 300 SF GFA where
Categories  Social Club; Social Service Facility                                           fixed seating is not provided
            Bus Terminal                                                                   Six spaces per 1,000 SF of waiting area
            Campground/RV Park                                                             See §
                                                                                           152.045(I) parking study or as approved by Director
            Cemetery                                                                       Minimum 5% of the gross area shall be made available in a
                                                                                           designated parking lot. No on-street parking inside cemetery
            Child Care Center                                                              One space per 400 SF GFA
            College or University                                                          See §
                                                                                           152.056(D)(3)
            Crematorium or Funeral Parlor                                                  One space per 4 fixed seats or 1 space per 300 SF GFA where fix
                                                                                           seating is not provided
            Community Playfields and Parks                                                 See §
                                                                                           152.056(D)(3)
            Government Office and Civic Building                                           One space per 300 SF GFA
           Hospital                                                                       One space per 2 inpatient beds + 1 per employee on the busiest
                                                                                           shift
            Medical Clinic                                                                 One space per 350 SF GFA
            Museum                                                                         One space per 300 SF of display area
            Public Safety Facility                                                         One space per employee + 1 space per fleet vehicle + 1 space per
                                                                                           350 SF of usable office/meeting space
            Religious Assembly                                                             One space per 4 fixed seats or 1 space per 300 SF GFA where fix
                                                                                           seating is not provided
            School, Public or Private, K-8                                                 One space per classroom + 1 space for each 200 SF of indoor
                                                                                           assembly area
            School, Public or Private, 9- 12                                               One space per 200 SF of classroom and office area
            Solar Generation Facility                                                      One space per employee
            Telecommunication Facility (Including Tower and Supporting Facilities)         None
            Utility Facility and Service Yard                                              One space per employee + 1 space per fleet vehicle if present at
                                                                                           site
Agriculture Agriculture, General                                                           None
Use         Market Garden                                                                  One per 3,000 SF of lot area
Categories  Ranching, Commercial                                                           See §
                                                                                           152.056(D)(3)
            Adult Entertainment Business                                                   One space per 200 SF GFA
            Animal Services (Kennel, Veterinary)                                           One space per 400 SF GFA
            Commercial Entertainment:
               Indoor:                                                                  One space per 4 fixed seats or 1 space per 300 SF GFA, whichever
                                                                                           is greater
               Movie Theater:                                                           One space per 3 seats
               Outdoor:                                                                 Parking study or as approved by the Director based on type of
                                                                                           outdoor entertainment
            Commercial Recreation:
               General Recreation, Indoor:                                              One space per 200 SF GFA
               General Recreation, Outdoor:                                             Parking study or as approved by Director based on the type of
                                                                                           outdoor recreation
               Fitness and Sports Center:                                               One space per 200 SF GFA
               Tour Services:                                                           See §
                                                                                           152.056(D)(3)
               Bowling Alley:                                                           Three spaces per lane + 1 for each employee
               Billiards:                                                               Three spaces per table + 1 for each employee
               Golf Course:                                                             Five spaces per hole + 1 for each employee
               Golf Driving Range:                                                      Two spaces per tee + required spaces for ancillary uses
            Personal Services                                                              One space per service station/room +1 for each employee
            Financial Institution                                                          One space per 250 SF GFA
            Food and Beverage Services:
               Bar, Lounge, Nightclub, Tavern, Microbrewery, Distillery, and/or Tasting One space per 75 SF patron space + 1 space per 200 SF of outdoor
            Room:                                                                          seating area
                                                                                           One space per 120 SF GFA + 1 space per 400 SF of outdoor seating
               Restaurant, Full Service (Dine-in, Take-out and Drive-through):          area + (1 RV/boat/bus space per 14 required spaces (2 minimum)
                                                                                           shall be provided. See also §
                                                                                           152.056(F)(4))
                                                                                           One space per 75 SF GFA + 1 space per 400 SF of outdoor seating
               Restaurant, Limited Service (Dine-in and Take-out Only):                 area + (1 RV/boat/bus space per 14 required spaces (2 minimum)
                                                                                           shall be provided. See also §
Commercial                                                                                 152.056(F)(4))
Use         Medical Marijuana Dispensary, Operation or Cultivation                         See §
Categories                                                                                 152.056(D)(3)
            Office:
               Business or Professional; Research Laboratory:                           One space per 300 SF GFA
               Medical and Dental:                                                      One space per 250 SF GFA
               Personal Services:                                                       One space per 300 SF GFA
            Retail Sales:
               Alcoholic beverages; Convenience Store; Retail, General; Business ServiceOne space per 300 SF GFA
               Retail, Large:                                                           One space per 400 SF GFA
               Nursery, Commercial; Feed Store:                                         One space per 400 SF of sales and display area
               Outdoor Vending:                                                         One space per each employee that didn’t arrive in mobile vending
                                                                                           vehicle
               Farmers Market; Flea Market:                                             One space per 500 SF of designated vendor area
            Self-Storage, Indoor                                                           One space per 50 units or 1 space per 5,000 SF of storage area,
                                                                                           whichever is greater
            Instructional Services or Trade Schools                                        One space per 200 SF GFA
            Vehicle Services:
               Automobile/Boat, Sales and Leasing; Rentals:                             One space per 400 SF of sales and service buildings + 1 space per
                                                                                           5,000 SF of outdoor display area
                                                                                           Three spaces per service bay + 1 space per 350 SF of additional
               Automobile/Boat, Repair:                                                 retail sales and service area (service bay shall not be counted as
                                                                                           a parking space)
               Car Wash, Full Service:                                                  One space per 200 SF of sales, office and lounge area
               Car Wash, Self-Serve:                                                    0.5 spaces per bay + stacking (§
                                                                                           152.056(K)(7))
               Service Station:                                                         Space at pump + 1 space per fueling position
               Service Station with Convenience Store:                                  Space at pump + 1 space per fueling position + 1 space per 300 SF
                                                                                           GFA
                                                                                            
                                                                                           One space per guest room + 1 space per 4 persons of total maximum
            Visitor Services:                                                              capacity of banquet room (if present) + 2 spaces per 3 employees +
               Hotel or Motel:                                                          (1 RV/boat/bus space per 6 guest rooms (3 minimum) shall be
                                                                                           provided. See also §
                                                                                           152.056(F)(4))
            Building Materials; Wholesale                                                  One space per 500 SF of sales related area + 1 space per employee
            Distribution Warehouse/Yard                                                    One space per 2,000 SF of warehouse and/or 5,000 SF of yard
                                                                                           related area + 1 space per employee
            Manufacturing/Assembly:
               Light:                                                                   One space per 500 SF of warehouse area + 1 space per 350 SF of
                                                                                           office area
Industrial     Heavy:                                                                   One space per 1,000 SF of warehouse area + 1 space per 350 SF of
Use                                                                                        office area
Categories  Resource Extraction                                                            See §
                                                                                           152.056(D)(3)
            Outside Storage (Boat/RV)                                                      Minimum 4 spaces + 1 space per employee
            Truck Stop                                                                     See §
                                                                                           152.056(D)(3)
            Waste, Salvage and Recycling Facility                                          See §
                                                                                           152.056(D)(3)
 
      (4)   Multiple uses. Unless otherwise specified, lots containing more
than one use shall provide a parking and loading in an amount equal to the
total of the requirements for all activities.
      (5)   Parking requirements for uses not listed, non-specified and
unspecified uses. It is recognized that specifying a single parking requirement
for some uses listed or not listed in
Table 4.2-1 is not reasonably feasible due to the far-reaching variation in use
characteristics that can exist within that specific use type. For those uses
listed in
Table 4.2-1 that do not have a specific parking requirement identified, the
Director shall determine a parking requirement based upon the requirements for
the most similar comparable use, the particular characteristics of the proposed
use, and any other relevant data regarding parking demand, or the applicant may
choose to submit a parking study performed by an Arizona Licensed Engineer. The
parking study may include, but is not limited to, estimates of parking demand
based on recommendations of the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE), or
other acceptable sources as approved by the Director, and should include other
reliable data collected from uses or combinations of uses that are the same as
or comparable with the proposed use.
      (6)   Alternatives for uses in all commercial and industrial zoning
districts. The parking requirements for uses in any commercial and industrial
zoning districts may be amended as follows:
         (a)   A parking study prepared by an Arizona Licensed Engineer may be
prepared and submitted, at the applicant's cost, to request a modification to
parking requirements in any commercial or industrial zoning districts. The
parking study may include, but is not limited to, estimates of parking demand
based on recommendations of the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE), or
other acceptable sources as approved by the Director, and should include other
reliable data collected from uses or combinations of uses that are the same as
or comparable to the proposed use. The study should also take into account peak
operating hours, RV/boat/bus parking, and both on-street and off-street parking
conditions to accurately demonstrate parking demand and supply.
         (b)   For any change of use that may require an increase to available
off-street parking that cannot be accommodated on-site, §
152.056(E), the applicant may provide a parking study prepared by an Arizona
Licensed Engineer or a traffic management plan at their expense, as approved by
the Director, which contains the same information as requested in division (A)
above. The Director may impose conditions that are needed to ensure the long-
term compliance to the plan, including but not limited to a reserve parking
area, phasing, or contributions to other alternative means of transportation or
parking accommodations.
      (7)   Basis of calculation. When calculating the number of parking spaces
required any fraction exceeding ½ shall be rounded up to the nearest whole
number.
      (8)   Occupancy or capacity-based standards. For computing parking
requirements based on employees, students, residents or occupants, calculations
must be based on the largest number of persons working on any single shift, the
maximum enrollment or the maximum fire-rated capacity, whichever results in the
greater number of spaces, unless otherwise explicitly specified within
Table 4.2-1.
   (E)   Alternative parking provisions. Where conditions preclude the
provision of the number of off-street parking spaces required by
Table 4.2-1, the following alternative parking provisions may be available,
subject to city approval:
      (1)   On-street parking. On-strcet parking spaces in the right-of-way
along the property line, between the lot lines of the site, may be counted to
satisfy the minimum off-street parking requirements for commercial uses. One
on-street parking space may be substituted for each required off-street space.
These provisions only apply to street frontages where on-street parking is
allowed and provided. The parking space credit shall be determined at the time
of site plan approval.
      (2)   Tandem parking. Shall mean a space where one vehicle parks behind
another, so that one vehicle must be moved before the other can be accessed.
Accessible parking spaces shall not be used for tandem parking spaces. Tandem
parking shall be limited to a maximum of two cars in depth and no less than
nine feet wide and 40 feet long. Tandem parking stalls are only allowed for:
         (a)   Residential uses. Tandem parking spaces shall be allowed for
single-family, duplex and townhome residential with spaces and access paved in
accordance with the city engineering standards.
         (b)   Multi-family uses. Tandem parking spaces shall be allowed for
condominium and multifamily uses, subject to the following conditions:
            1.   The tandem spaces shall be reserved for and assigned to
dwelling units which are required to have two or more parking spaces; and
            2.   Tandem spaces shall not be used for guest parking.
         (c)   Commercial uses. Tandem parking spaces shall not be allowed for
new commercial construction.
      (3)   Commercial shared parking agreements. The Director may approve
shared parking agreements for commercial developments or uses with different
operating hours or different peak business periods if the shared parking
facilities are located on the subject property and within 600 feet of the
subject site with an acceptable pedestrian route as defined in §
152.056(K)(7), and where the applicant(s) can clearly show the feasibility for
the shared parking.
         (a)   Design and improvement standards. All newly-constructed shared
parking facilities shall conform to the same standards of access,
configuration, landscaping, lighting, layout, location, and size as are
required by this section for off-street parking spaces.
         (b)   Covenant required. A city-approved covenant shall be recorded
with the county that includes a description of the shared parking agreement, a
requirement that all current and future tenants are notified of and shall
adhere to the same hours of operation and conditions of the shared parking
approval. Recordation of the agreement must take place before issuance of a
building permit or business registration/renewal for any use that is a party to
the agreement. The Director may grant permission to dissolve a shared parking
agreement only if all required off-street parking spaces will be provided, in
accordance with §
152.056(D) and (E).
      (4)   Off-site parking. The Director may approve the location of required
off-site parking spaces on a separate lot from the lot on which the principal
use is located if the off-site parking complies with all of the following
standards:
         (a)   Ineligible uses. Unless expressly permitted, off-site parking
may not be allowed for residential uses or other convenience-oriented uses.
         (b)   Location.
            1.   Off-site parking may be allowed only in the CBD district, or
outside the CBD upon issuance of a permit for a special event.
            2.   All off-site parking spaces shall be located within 600 feet
from the subject site's primary entrance unless a shuttle bus or valet parking
service is provided. The distance of the off-site parking area to the principal
use shall be measured along the shortest acceptable pedestrian route.
Acceptable pedestrian routes are defined in §
152.056(K)(7).
            3.   Required parking spaces for persons with disabilities may not
be located off-site.
         (c)   Design and improvement standards. All off-site parking spaces
shall conform to the same standards of access, configuration, landscaping,
lighting, layout, location, and size as are required by this section for off-
street parking spaces.
         (d)   Terms of off-site parking.
            1.   A city-approved covenant shall be recorded with the county
that includes a description of the off-site parking and a requirement that the
owner of the separated lot maintain the required parking for the life of the
use to which it is covenanted.
            2.   The owner or operator of a business that uses approved off-
site space to satisfy the parking requirements of this chapter shall
immediately notify the Director of any change of ownership or use of the
property for which the spaces are required, and of any termination or default
of the agreement between the parties.
            3.   Should an agreement for required off-site parking expire or
otherwise terminate, the Director shall determine a reasonable time in which
one of the following shall occur:
               a.   Substitute parking is provided that is acceptable to the
city; or
               b.   The size or capacity of the use is reduced in proportion to
the parking spaces lost.
            4.   If the above conditions are not met in the timeframe
identified, the use for which the off-site parking was provided shall be
considered legal nonconforming and any and all approvals, including conditional
use permits shall be subject to revocation.
      (5)   Electric vehicle charging stations. Spaces provided for electric
vehicle charging stations are not considered regular parking spaces, since they
can only be used for charging a vehicle before it must move to allow other
vehicles to charge, so these spaces do not count towards the required spaces
needed.
   (F)   Parking space dimensions.
      (1)   Vehicular parking space dimensions. All vehicular parking areas
shall comply with the minimum dimension requirements as set forth in Table 4.2-
2 and as illustrated in Figure 4.2-A.
Table 4.2-2: Vehicle Parking Dimensions
A             B             C             D            E            F
Parking Angle Parking Space Parking Space Aisle Width  Aisle Width  Curb Length
              Width[1]      Length[2]     (1-Way)      (2-Way)
Table 4.2-2: Vehicle Parking Dimensions
A             B             C             D            E            F
Parking Angle Parking Space Parking Space Aisle Width  Aisle Width  Curb Length
              Width[1]      Length[2]     (1-Way)      (2-Way)
90            10 feet       20 feet       23 feet      24 feet      10 feet
60            10 feet       21 feet       18 feet      24 feet      11 feet 7
                                                                    inches
45            10 feet       19 feet 10    13 feet      24 feet      14 feet 2
                            inches                                  inches
30            10 feet       17 feet 4     12 feet      20 feet      20 feet
                            inches
Parallel      10 feet       N/A           12 feet      20 feet      22 feet[3]
   [1]   The width of a parking space shall be increased by 2 feet when
adjacent to fences, walls, or planters.
   [2]   The lengt h of a parking space can be reduced subject to meeting the
requ irements of §
152.056(K)(5). The lengt h of the parking spac e and use of wheel stop s shall
be impl emented in a man ner that assures vehi cle overhang will avoi d contact
with abut ting objects such as land scaping, irrigation, or walls and vehicle
intru sion on walkways.
   [3]   A singl e parallel parking space shall have a curb length of 26 feet.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ba1c1b633916dbf854fc45ce7e208e4cc617f0d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1095.jpg]
   Figure 4.2-A: Vehicle Parking Dimensions
      (2)   Hotel and motel parking. Hotels and motels shall be allowed to have
parking space widths of nine feet, all other standards apply.
      (3)   Motorcycle parking. All developments shall be allowed to designate
a portion of their required ten feet by 20 feet parking spaces for motorcycle
parking.
      (4)   Recreational vehicle and bus parking space dimensions. All
recreational vehicle, boat, personal watercraft or bus parking areas shall be a
minimum of 12 feet in width and 35 feet in length. If 12 feet in width and 40
feet in length stalls are provided, they may be counted as two required
standard stalls.
   (G)   Accessible parking. Off-street handicapped accessible parking spaces
shall be provided in accordance with
Table 4.2-3. All disabled accessible parking spaces shall count toward
fulfilling the off-street parking requirements of this section.
      (1)   Number of spaces required for residential. Handicapped-accessible
parking for residential uses shall be provided at the rate of one space per
each dwelling unit that is designated for handicapped occupancy.
      (2)   Number of spaces required for non-residential. Handicapped-
accessible parking for non-residential uses shall be in accordance with the
rate shown in the table below:
Table 4.2-3: Accessible Parking Requirements
Total Number of Parking Spaces Provided Minimum Number of Required Accessible
in Parking Facility                     Parking Spaces
Table 4.2-3: Accessible Parking Requirements
Total Number of Parking Spaces Provided Minimum Number of Required Accessible
in Parking Facility                     Parking Spaces
1 to 25                                 1
26 to 50                                2
51 to 75                                3
76 to 100                               4
101 to 150                              5
151 to 200                              6
201 to 300                              7
301 to 400                              8
401 to 500                              9
501 to 1,000                            2% of total
1,001 and over                          20, plus 1 for each 100, or fraction
                                        thereof, over 1,000
      
         (a)   Where more than one parking facility is provided on a site, the
number of A.D.A. handicapped accessible spaces provided on the site shall be
calculated separately according to the number of regular spaces required for
each parking facility.
         (b)   For every six A.D.A. spaces required by
Table 4.2-3, at least one shall be an A.D.A van accessible parking space.
      (3)   Dimensions of A.D.A handicapped vehicle and van accessible parking
spaces. Vehicle and van accessible spaces shall be at least eight-feet wide,
with vehicle and van spaces having a five-foot wide, and an eight-foot-wide
access aisle abutting the designated parking space respectively.
      (4)   Location of A.D.A. handicapped accessible parking spaces. All
A.D.A. handicapped accessible parking spaces shall be located on the shortest
accessible and unobstructed route from the parking space to the facility
entrance. In parking facilities where the accessible route must cross traffic
lanes, the route shall be designated and marked as a crosswalk. Where possible,
it is also preferable that the accessible route not pass behind parked
vehicles.
   (H)   Loading area requirements.
      (1)   Passenger loading areas. A passenger loading space is the area a
vehicle occupies while loading or unloading passengers. Passenger loading areas
shall be provided in accordance with the following table of minimum
requirements. Passenger loading spaces do not count towards the required number
of off-street parking spaces.
Table 4.2-4: Passenger Loading Area Requirements
Use Type Loading Spaces Required
Table 4.2-4: Passenger Loading Area Requirements
Use Type                    Loading Spaces Required
Cultural or Public Facility 2
Day Care Center, Commercial 5
Hospital                    3
Medical Offices             1 per 5,000 sq. ft.
Hotel or Motel              4
Religious Assembly          1 per 50 required parking spaces
Multi-Family Residential    1 per 50 units
Tour Services               1 per active tour vehicle (based on typical
                            operations)
Other                       Determined by Director
 
         (a)   Location. Passenger loading areas shall be provided adjacent to
the main entrance of the facility they are intended to serve.
         (b)   Maneuvering. Passenger loading areas shall consist of a vehicle
turnout area to not interfere with the circulation of vehicles, pedestrians or
bicycles.
         (c)   Dimensions. A passenger loading space shall be a minimum of 12
feet wide by 25 feet long.
      (2)   Material loading areas/zones. These loading/unloading zones shall
be as determined by the facility architect based upon information provided by
the owner of the use, as approved by the Director. The required material
loading spaces do not count towards the required number of off-street parking
spaces.
   (I)   Bicycle parking.
      (1)   Bicycle parking requirement. Bicycle parking is required for all
multi-family and commercial developments. The number of bicycle parking spaces
provided shall be at least equal to 5% of the number of vehicle parking spaces
required.
      (2)   Bicycle location requirement. Bicycle parking racks shall be
located on the same lot as the use it serves, located near the main entrance of
the principal building, with clear visibility from the main entrance.
      (3)   Bicycle space dimensions. Bicycle spaces shall measure two feet
wide by six feet long.
      (4)   Bicycle parking design. Bicycle parking racks shall support each
bicycle in a method that does not use the wheel as the primary means of support
and they shall be securely anchored to a concrete slab.
   (J)   Special parking requirements for residential uses.
      (1)   Type of required residential parking spaces. Required spaces for
all non-multi-family residential uses may be either side-by-side or tandem as
specified in §
152.056(E)(3), side-by-side parking areas shall at a minimum be 18 feet wide by
24 feet long with no obstructions or overhangs onto sidewalks. Tandem spaces
shall be nine feet wide by 50 feet deep with no obstructions or overhangs.
      (2)   Residential driveway design.
         (a)   All residential lots except in the RE zoning districts shall
provide a paved driveway between a local public or private street and all
required parking spaces. If access to a public street is provided via an alley,
the alley and drive shall be fully paved.
         (b)   Residential driveways shall be at least 24 feet in length, as
measured from the back of sidewalk, or right-of-way line if no sidewalk is
provided, to the closest face of the dwelling unit, garage or carport.
         (c)   Residential driveways which provide access from a garage to an
alley may be less than 24 feet long, provided that the total combined width of
the alley and length of the driveway are at least 30 feet for the maneuvering
area.
      (3)   Location of residential parking spaces.
         (a)   Parking spaces for residential uses, as specified in Table 4.2-
1, may be allowed in the front yard setback area or street side yard setback
for comer lots, but not both.
         (b)   The portion of a residential driveway or maneuvering area
located within the front setback (or street side yard setback for comer lots)
of lots zoned RE, R-l, R-2, MHS, and MHP may be used for parking of vehicles
for occupants and guests, subject to the following requirements:
            1.   Parking of vehicles shall be done only on paved concrete,
asphalt, pavers, or gravel areas. Lots located in the RE District shall be
exempt from this requirement.
            2.   The combined extent of residential driveway, maneuvering, and
parking areas shall not occupy more than 50% of the required front or street
side yard setback area or three stalls (nine feet x 24 feet) for lot widths
above 50 feet, whichever is greater. Lots located in Blocks 55-80 and 92-93,
but not including Block 75A, shall be exempt from this requirement.
            3.   The required front or street side yard setback area that is
allowed to be used for a residential driveway, maneuvering, and parking areas
can be covered if the cover meets the following criteria:
               a.   It is open on three sides;
               b.   It is architecturally compatible in color and materials and
finish with the dwelling unit; and
               c.   It does not extend into rights-of-way or easements or
create sight issues.
         (c)   For all lots zoned RE, R-1, R-2, MHS, and MHP parking of
vehicles within any interior side or rear yard is permissible, provided the
area is paved with concrete, asphalt, pavers, or gravel and is not located
closer than three feet to an abutting side property line, unless a shared
driveway is utilized.
   (K)   Parking area design and layout standards. In addition to meeting the
applicable off-street parking requirements of this section, the following
parking area design and layout regulations shall be complied with for all uses
allowed in each zoning district; excluding individual residential lots in the
RE, R-1, and R-2 districts, unless expressly modified in the following
provisions.
      (1)   Access to parking areas and parking spaces.
         (a)   All parking areas shall provide access to a public street by
means of a paved driveway that extends on-site to a point not less than 24 feet
from the property line.
         (b)   If an off-street parking area utilizes a publicly dedicated
alley for access to a public street, the alley shall be paved the full length
of the alley. The use of an alley for access to a commercial site next to any
residential zoning district is prohibited.
      (2)   General commercial off-street parking lot design and maintenance.
         (a)   All parking lots shall be designed, constructed, and drained in
accordance with all applicable city ordinances, standards, and regulations.
         (b)   Vehicles are prohibited from parking in the sight triangle which
is located at the corner of an intersection of two streets and it is measured
30 feet back from where the two property lines intersect, where the sight
triangle is encompassed by a third line that intersects the two property lines
at that 30 foot mark. No structures, fences, walls, curb cuts, driveways, or
maneuvering areas shall be permitted within the sight triangle. Only
landscaping lower than two feet high at maximum growth or ground cover
landscaping may be located within the sight triangle.
         (c)   All parking spaces shall be permanently marked and maintained.
Circulation aisles, approach lanes, and turning areas shall be clearly marked
with directional arrows and lines to ensure traffic safety.
         (d)   All off-street parking areas shall be maintained in good
condition; as determined by the Director.
      (3)   Parking circulation design.
         (a)   Drive aisles and maneuvering areas shall be designed to
facilitate the safe movement of vehicles without posing a danger to pedestrians
or impeding the traffic flows of the parking area.
         (b)   Parking areas that accommodate 20 or more vehicles must maintain
continuous circulation patterns, with no dead-ends, and safe ninety-degree
perpendicular access to public streets.
         (c)   Ninety-degree parking areas that accommodate less than ten
vehicles and terminate in a dead-end shall provide a five foot maneuvering area
beyond the last parking stall(s) and in the width of the aisle to assist in
turning movements.
         (d)   All off-street parking areas shall be designed to provide
ingress and egress from a public street by the forward motion of the vehicle.
Required off-street parking spaces shall be accessible without having to back
in or otherwise re-entering a public right-of-way to maneuver appropriately to
park.
         (e)   All off-street parking areas must have the necessary dimensions
for the on-site maneuvering of refuse, delivery and fire trucks. If off-site
maneuvering is necessary, a permanent, recorded cross-access easement must be
filed with the Planning and Zoning Department prior to issuance of a building
permit.
      (4)   Shared access. Parking areas shall provide reasonable connectivity
to adjacent parking areas to promote convenience, safety and efficient
circulation. A cross access easement and agreement guaranteeing the shared
access between properties shall be recorded by the owners of the participating
properties.
      (5)   Curbing and wheel stops.
         (a)   Continuous curbing at least six inches high and six inches wide
shall be provided around perimeter of all parking lots and access drives.
Curbing near stormwater inlets may be cut for drainage.
         (b)   Where curbing isn't practical next to walls, landscaping or
other obstructions, concrete wheel stops shall be permanently placed at least
three feet from any adjacent wall, pole, fence, property line, walkway,
sidewalk, landscape area or any other obstruction. The three feet shall be
measured from the front end of the space to the center of the wheel stop. Under
no circumstances shall vehicles be allowed to extend into or over a right-of-
way or private property.
      (6)   On-site vehicle storage or stacking requirements for drive-through
facilities.
         (a)   Required vehicle storage or stacking spaces. In addition to
meeting the off-street parking requirements of this section, all drive-through
facilities shall provide vehicle storage or stacking spaces in accordance with
the following table and requirements:
Table 4.2-6: Drive-Through Vehicle Storage or Stacking Requirements
Drive-Through Type Storage or Stacking Space Requirement
Table 4.2-6: Drive-Through Vehicle Storage or Stacking Requirements
Drive-Through Type                    Storage or Stacking Space Requirement
Automated Teller Machine              Three per machine
Bank Teller                           Three per teller or window
Car Wash                              Three per bay at entrance
                                      One per bay at exit
Retail Business (dry cleaning, liquor Three per window
store, etc.)
Pharmacy                              Three per window
Restaurant, Coffee Shop, and other    Three behind menu board
similar types of uses                 Three behind window
                                      The Director shall determine the stacking
Other                                 requirements for other uses based upon
                                      input from architect, and other similar
                                      types of uses
 
         (b)   Design and layout of stacking spaces.
            1.   Each stacking space shall be a minimum of nine feet wide by 30
feet long (length of vehicle plus space between vehicles).
            2.   Stacking spaces shall not interfere with on-site or off-site
traffic flows or block access ways to off-street parking spaces.
            3.   Stacking spaces must be separated from other internal
driveways by striping or raised medians as deemed appropriate by the Director.
         (c)   Exceptions. Exceptions may be granted when a traffic or parking
study demonstrates the need for lower stacking requirements.
      (7)   Pedestrian safe access. Parking lots in excess of 100 spaces shall
provide direct and continuous pedestrian networks to connect building entrances
to parking spaces and off-site pedestrian destinations, be A.D.A. compliant, be
completely separated from vehicular traffic, and be clearly marked where they
cross driveways through a raised surface or distinctive paving.
   (L)   Parking areas shall be landscaped in accordance with §
152.057(B).
   (M)   Parking area lighting shall adhere to the lighting requirements in §
152.059.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.057 LANDSCAPE, WALLS, FENCES AND SCREENING.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The landscape, walls, and screening section provides uniform
standards for the installation of landscaping, walls, fences, screening and
buffer areas, as well as guidelines for the protection, maintenance and
management of these resources to promote and encourage sustainability,
effectuate privacy, facilitate logical development and enhance property value.
      (2)   This section includes guidance on: where landscaping is required;
the types and use of vegetation allowed; and the provision of screening and
buffering to create an attractive appearance along public streets while
screening unattractive uses.
      (3)   Landscaping materials, including ground cover, shrubs and trees,
promote the control of erosion and the reduction of glare and dust, as well as
visually softening buildings, parking lots and walls. Walls and screening
devices allow for the separation of incompatible uses and for the buffering of
intensive activities.
   (B)   Landscaping. This section is intended to contribute to the aesthetic
character of the city through the provision of landscaping and retention of
existing vegetation.
      (1)   Applicability. These requirements apply to all commercial uses,
including multi-family, but does not apply to single-family residential or uses
in the Industrial (IP) Zoning District. These regulations shall also apply to
the required on and off-site improvements of a residential or commercial
subdivision.
      (2)   Selection of plant materials. Due to concerns with water
availability in our Northern Arizona Desert Climate, which is classified as an
"Arid-Zone" by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA),
Xeriscape landscaping is the ideal landscaping to be planted in our region
which incorporates water-conserving design through proper plant selection,
installation, and maintenance. The species and variety of plants selected to
meet the landscape requirements of this section, shall correspond with the
following xeriscape principles in Table 4.3-1 for planning, design, type of
plants selected for our area, irrigation, soil improvements and maintenance:
 
Table 4.3-1: Xeriscape Principles
                                      Careful consideration of a site's size
                                      and shape, soil type, topography, and
                                      building configuration is essential in
                                      developing a good landscape plan. The use
Good Landscape Planning and Design    of the space, the amount of sunlight,
                                      location of views, regional and
                                      microclimate conditions, and an
                                      assessment of landscape watering zones
                                      should all be taken into account in
                                      planning a xeriscape landscape.
                                      Primarily drought tolerant and low water
                                      use plants shall be used. These plants
                                      can serve nearly every function. Some
Use of Drought Tolerant and Low-Water provide shade and texture, while others
Use Plants                            are appropriate for borders, accent
                                      areas, seasonal color, and year-round
                                      greenery. Native wildflowers and grasses
                                      are typically suitable for revegetating
                                      disturbed areas.
                                      Lawns require a lot of water to stay
                                      green and healthy and shall only be
                                      located where they provide functional
                                      benefits. Lawns planted close to a
Appropriate Lawn Areas                building may provide a cooling effect.
                                      Lawns should not be planted in odd shaped
                                      areas that cannot be watered efficiently
                                      and they can often be planted with
                                      modern, low-water-use, drought- tolerant
                                      grasses.
                                      Install irrigation systems to provide an
                                      adequate amount of water at the proper
                                      time to the root zone. Each plant and
                                      vegetative type has its own water needs,
                                      and the planting arrangement and
                                      irrigation system should be designed to
Efficient Irrigation                  reflect those needs. Moisture sensors
                                      shall be installed on irrigation controls
                                      to measure real time soil moisture. Each
                                      water use zone should be on a different
                                      valve and stormwater runoff should be
                                      routed into each area to offset
                                      irrigation needs.
                                      Organic matter should be added to
                                      existing soils to increase water-holding
Soil Improvement                      capacity and provide beneficial nutrients
                                      to plants. In low water-use zones,
                                      loosening the soil may be all that is
                                      needed.
                                      Xeriscape landscapes require low
                                      maintenance, but not no maintenance. To
Appropriate Maintenance               work, a xeriscape landscape must be
                                      monitored with a program of pruning, weed
                                      control, pest control, and irrigation
                                      system adjustments.
 
      (3)   Site area landscaping.
         (a)   Any part of a commercial development, including multi-family
that is not used for buildings, parking, driveways, sidewalks, or natural
undisturbed open space shall be landscaped with xeriscape landscaping as
designed by an Arizona Licensed Landscape Architect to meet the following
minimum criteria, as approved by the Director.
         (b)   Required site area landscape planting criteria. The total
quantity of required landscape materials shall be computed for all site
landscape areas as follows (unless otherwise noted within this chapter):
            1.   Trees. A minimum of one tree per 500 square feet of landscape
area. All xeriscape trees shall not be less than one 1-1/2 inches caliper at
planting.
            2.   Shrubs. One shrub per 100 square feet of landscape area. All
shrubs shall be a minimum of five gallons in size.
            3.   Groundcover. Xeriscape plants shall be a minimum of one gallon
in size. One plant shall be provided per 200 square feet of landscape area.
            4.   Landscape topping materials. All landscaped areas shall be
finished with a natural topping material which may include crushed aggregate
(two inches minimum depth). Type, size and color of landscape topping material
for projects shall be approved through the landscape plan review.
         (c)   The front yard of residential development in the R-1 and R-
2 zoning districts shall be landscaped with vegetation and/or landscape topping
material.
      (4)   Streetscape landscaping.
         (a)   The entire public street right-of-way between a street side
property line and back of curb (excluding approved driveways, walkways or
rights-of-way not under city control) shall be xeriscape landscaped in
accordance with the requirements in division (3)(b) above.
         (b)   For US 89 and SR 98, a 15 foot wide xeriscape landscape area
shall be established between the right-of-way line and any buildings, parking
lots, walls or fences, or other improvements in association with any use in
accordance with the requirements in division (3)(b) above.
         (c)   Required streetscape landscape planting criteria. The total
quantity of required xeriscape landscape materials shall be as defined below:
            1.   Trees. A minimum of one xeriscape tree for every 50 feet of
lineal frontage. Xeriscape trees shall not be less than 1½ inches caliper at
planting.
            2.   Shrubs. Two shrubs shall be required for every 50 feet of
lineal frontage. All shrubs shall be a minimum of five gallons in size.
            3.   Groundcover. Xeriscape plants shall be a minimum of one gallon
in size. One plant shall be required for every 50 feet of lineal frontage.
            4.   Landscape topping materials. All landscaped areas shall be
finished with a natural topping material which may include crushed aggregate
(two inches minimum depth). Type, size and color of landscape topping material
for projects shall be approved through the landscape plan review.
         (d)   Placement of required streetscape landscaping.
            1.   Xeriscape landscaping may be clustered and located within the
public street right-of-way or partially within the adjacent ten feet of the
site.
            2.   Vegetation shall not be placed in drainage ways.
            3.   Trees shall not be planted to interfere with any overhead or
underground utility lines at initial planting or mature height and width.
            4.   Trees are not to be planted in any sight triangle. Shrubs
planted in any sight triangle shall not exceed mature heights of more than 24
inches measured from finished grade.
            5.   Vegetation at maturity shall not be closer than three feet
from any fire hydrant or utility pole.
            6.   Trees shall not be planted closer than five feet to the face
of any curb.
      (5)   Parking lot/area landscape requirements. All parking areas shall be
landscaped as follows:
         (a)   Landscape areas with raised concrete curbing shall define all
parking lot edges, entrances, drives, aisles and the ends of all parking
aisles.
         (b)   Landscape islands shall be installed at the end of each parking
aisle that contains 12 or more parking spaces.
         (c)   Islands shall be landscaped in accordance with the following
requirements:
            1.   Each landscaped island shall extend the entire length of the
parking space and contain a minimum of 75 square feet of area, not including
curbs, and shall measure a minimum of six feet in width at the mid-point.
            2.   Each landscape island shall include a minimum of one tree and
landscape topping material per (B)(3)(b)4 above.
      (6)   Landscape maintenance.
         (a)   All landscape improvements installed in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter for new or expanded developments and uses within
on-site landscape areas as well as in the right-of-way, shall be maintained
into perpetuity by the property owner or lessee.
         (b)   All landscape areas shall be provided with a permanent, fixed
automatic irrigation system.
         (c)   Any vegetation that does not survive shall be replaced within 30
days.
      (7)   Landscape plan regulations.
         (a)   A "preliminary landscape plan" and a "final landscape plan"
shall be prepared by an Arizona Licensed Landscape Architect and approved for
all applicable development projects in accordance with the requirements set
forth in this section.
         (b)   All changes in the landscaping of a site/development area after
final landscape plan approval and landscape installation shall be approved by
the Director or designee prior to issuing a certificate of occupancy.
         (c)   Prior to the issuance of a building permit, the Planning and
Zoning Department shall review and approve the required plans (i.e. lighting,
drainage, mechanical) which affect the placement and type of landscaping and
walls within the site.
         (d)   Landscape plan preparation and approval.
            1.   Preliminary landscape plan. Two full size hard copies and one
electronic PDF copy of a preliminary landscape plan shall be prepared and
submitted along with the required development/site plan for review by the
Director. The preliminary landscape plan may be shown on the development/site
plan drawings. The components of the preliminary landscape plan shall include,
(at minimum) a scaled plan indicating the general locations of all existing and
proposed trees, shrub massings, and groundcovers. Actual botanical names are
not required to be specified at this time. Property lines, north arrow,
existing and proposed structures, streets, sidewalks, trails, major natural
features, walls and fences, slopes, berms, basins, drainage structures, trash
enclosures, sewer laterals, utility transformers, site furniture, concrete
curbing, decorative paving, and other site elements that relate to or affect
the overall landscape along with any notes describing the proposed method of
irrigation. The preliminary landscape plan shall be reviewed and approved by
the Director or designee as part of the development/site plan review, and may
be approved with stipulated changes or additions. A building permit may be
issued prior to final landscape plan approval; however, certificate of
occupancy will not be issued until the final landscape plan is approved, and
all required landscaping and irrigation system components have been installed.
A temporary certificate of occupancy may not be approved until all landscaping
and irrigation system components have been installed, inspected and approved.
            2.   Final landscape plan. Two full size hard copies and one
electronic PDF copy of a final landscape plan, irrigation plan and lighting
plan shall be submitted along with all other required site improvement and
building plans at the time of application for a building permit. The lighting
plan shall be prepared by a technically competent lighting professional. The
final landscape plan shall be prepared by an Arizona Licensed Landscape
Architect and contain the final calculations, data, and specific details and
all other information that were required and identified on the preliminary
landscape plan. The final landscape plan shall contain a specific schedule of
all trees and shrubs identified by common and botanical name, and shall clearly
indicate the quantity and size of each tree and shrub to be installed. The
final landscape plan shall be in conformance with the approved preliminary plan
and any stipulated changes or additions, and shall be approved by the Director
or designee prior to the issuance of a building permit.
            3.   Upon approval, both sets of the landscape plan will be dated
and stamped "Approved" and one original, signed plan will be transmitted to the
applicant to remain on the jobsite during construction, and one will be
retained on file with the Planning and Zoning Department.
   (C)   Fences, walls and screening. Standards set forth in this section
protect the visual quality of the public realm by establishing screening
requirements for various land use and development conditions.
      (1)   Applicability. Unless otherwise stated within this chapter, fences
and/or walls shall be installed and maintained in compliance with this section.
      (2)   General fence and wall regulations.
         (a)   All general perimeter and on-site fences and walls shall adhere
to the city adopted building codes and be constructed of long-lasting
materials, such as vinyl, wood, masonry, stone, decorative metal, and be
architecturally integrated with the building design. Chain-link type fencing
with screens or insertable slats are prohibited as a fence or wall throughout
the city, with the following exceptions. Within the RE Residential, Industrial
and Airport Zoning Districts, chain link fences may be allowed with the
approval of the Director.
         (b)   It is the property owner's responsibility to ensure that every
portion of the fence or wall be located on their property. Otherwise, there are
no fence or wall setback requirements from property lines, except as otherwise
specified in this chapter.
         (c)   Barbed wire and Constantine wire fences shall be prohibited in
all zoning districts except barbed wire may be allowed in the SC and IP
District and for temporary construction sites, provided that the barbed wire is
located more than six feet above grade. Temporary barbed wire fencing shall be
removed from the site before a certificate of occupancy will be issued.
   (D)   General wall and fence height standards.
      (1)   Fences or walls located between the front yard property and
building setback lines shall not exceed four feet in height.
      (2)   In areas behind a required front yard building setback line and
within the required rear and side yards, including walls for single-family
dwellings, the maximum height of walls shall be six feet, as measured from
finished grade, except where a taller wall is necessary for screening purposes,
as approved by the Director. Where there exist two abutting lots with different
finished grades, the wall height shall be limited to six feet on the high side
and eight feet on the low side. Modifications of these requirements shall
require a written request to be approved by the Director.
      (3)   Walls exceeding six feet in height, or retaining walls extending
more than four feet in height measured from finished grade, shall require a
building permit and the submittal of structural calculations prepared by a
Arizona Licensed Structural Engineer, unless specified otherwise in this
chapter. Nonretaining and retaining concrete block walls shall adhere to the
city adopted building codes.
      (4)   Corners. No walls, buildings, structures or other obstructions in
excess of two feet in height (measured from the top of the street curb at each
end of the site triangle) shall be placed on any corner lot within the sight
triangle. There shall be an exception for any existing trees to remain within
the sight triangle, but they shall be pruned and maintained to be free from
obstructions to a height of seven feet to allow for open visibility for
vehicles as measured from finished grade.
   (E)   Parking lot screens. All on-site parking areas fronting onto any
street, where headlights from the parked vehicles could deleteriously affect
the visibility of passing vehicles shall be screened according to the
provisions as set forth herein. This standard can be met through the use of a
continuous three foot six-inch-high landscape screen meeting the opacity of a
solid wall, or a continuous solid wall, or a combination of the two. Walls
shall be designed to undulate to avoid straight segments in excess of 100 feet.
Open areas for pedestrian access shall be required as needed along the length
of the screen/wall as required and approved by the Director.
   (F)   Refuse area screens. All trash, rubbish or garbage, including
recyclable materials in common storage areas, except within the IP District,
shall be completely enclosed by a solid six foot wall or fence with a view
obstructing gate and be located on a concrete slab. Refuse collection areas
shall be readily accessible to collection vehicles, without substantially
encumbering adjacent parking and vehicular access. For commercial uses, such RV
parks and multi-family dwellings, the enclosure shall be softened with
landscaping on any side visible from the front of the property or a public or
private street.
   (G)   Loading area screens. All loading, delivery and service bays shall be
screened from public view by a building, a decorative screen wall a minimum
eight feet in height, a solid opaque evergreen landscape screen or any
combination thereof.
   (H)   Mechanical equipment screens. All mechanical equipment, either ground
or roof-mounted, shall be screened from view from people walking by the
property on the street or sidewalk. Rooftop units shall be screened with a
parapet wall the entire length of the building that blends with the building's
architecture.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 661-19, passed 10-9-2019; Ord. 703-23,
passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.058 SIGNAGE.
   (A)   Administration.
      (1)   Purpose. These regulations are designed to protect the public
health, safety, and general welfare, create a well-maintained and attractive
community, and provide adequate identification, communication, and advertising
for signage needs.
      (2)   Intent. These regulations are intended to meet the following
objectives:
         (a)   Ensure that signs are designed, constructed, installed, and
maintained according to minimum standards to safeguard public health, safety,
and welfare.
         (b)   Allow for and promote an attractive environment and positive
aesthetics for signage.
         (c)   Reflect and support the desired ambiance and development
patterns of various uses.
         (d)   Ensure that the constitutionally guaranteed right of free
expression is protected.
      (3)   Applicability. The requirements of these regulations apply to all
signs, sign structures, and other types of sign devices located within the city
limits, except as specified in (A)(7) below.
      (4)   No content restrictions. These regulations are viewpoint neutral in
that the following applies:
         (a)   Any sign allowed under these regulations may contain, in lieu of
any other copy, any otherwise lawful message that complies with applicable
size, lighting, dimension, design, spacing, and permitting requirements.
         (b)   These regulations are intended to regulate signs in a manner
that does not favor commercial speech over non-commercial speech nor regulate
non-commercial speech by message content.
      (5)   Conflicts. Conflicting regulations are addressed as follows:
         (a)   Where there is a conflict between specific sign regulations and
the general sign regulations of this code, the specific sign regulations
supersede.
         (b)   Where there is a conflict between these regulations and the
building code, the most restrictive regulation applies.
      (6)   Conformity. It shall be unlawful to erect, construct, enlarge,
alter, repair, display, or use a sign within the city limits that is contrary
to, or in violation of, any provision of these regulations. Conformity shall be
enforced through the enforcement provisions under §§
152.105-
152.112.
      (7)   Exemptions. The following signs are exempt from the regulations
herein but may be subject to other codes enacted by the city where applicable.
         (a)   Signs inside a building or otherwise not visible from a public
roadway.
         (b)   Government signs, including wayfinding signs.
         (c)   Signs protected by federal law or state statutes.
         (d)   The flag, pennant, or insignia of any nation, state, county,
city or other political entity or any church or religious organization. The
display of only one flag of this nature is permitted on any single lot. This
section shall not prohibit the display of individual flags of multiple nations,
states, counties, cities or other political entities or churches or religious
organizations.
         (e)   Permanent and professionally applied wraps on non-stationary
vehicles/equipment in operating condition, currently registered and licensed to
operate on public streets, and actively used in the daily operations of the
business to which it relates.
         (f)   Name and address signs indicating the address, number, and/or
name of occupants of the premises that do not exceed two square feet in area.
         (g)   Yard signs less than two square feet in area and a maximum of
two per property.
         (h)   Sign repainting, maintenance, or sign face or content change.
         (i)   Signs carved into or raised in relief on a building.
         (j)   Warning signs are limited to one sign per lot to not exceed two
square feet in residential areas and one sign per lot to not exceed five square
feet in commercial/industrial zoning districts.
      (8)   Prohibitions. The following signs are prohibited unless
specifically allowed by state or federal law, city regulations, or exemptions
therein:
         (a)   Abandoned signs, including sign frames, cabinets, and other sign
structures.
         (b)   Signs placed at the airport approach and departure slope of the
Page Municipal Airport.
         (c)   Billboards, static or digital, including any other type of off-
premises signage is prohibited.
         (d)   Signs that imitate or resemble official traffic lights, signs,
or signals and signs that interfere with the effectiveness of any official
traffic light, sign, or signal.
         (e)   Signs projecting above the top of a wall, parapet, or roofline
or mounted on a roof.
         (f)   Mechanically moving signs; environmentally activated signs or
other displays with mechanical motion powered by natural, manual, electrical,
or other means, including, but not limited to, pennant strings, streamers,
spinners, propellers, and search lights.
         (g)   Strobing or flashing signs; signs that have a change rate or
dwell time of less than four seconds are prohibited.
         (h)   Posters and handbills; and/or any signs temporarily affixed to
any structures, trees or other natural vegetation, rocks, or poles.
         (i)   Signs adversely affecting safety; signs that prevent free
ingress or egress from any door, window, or fire exit or that prevent free
access from one part of a roof to any other part.
         (j)   Sign emissions or open flames; signs that emit smoke, visible
vapors, particles, sound, or odor or that uses pen flames used to attract
public attention.
         (k)   No mirroring device shall be used as part of a sign.
         (l)   Inflatable signs: inflatable balloons, spinners, strings of
flags and pennants, fixed aerial displays, streamers, tubes, and other devices
affected by the movement of the air or other atmospheric or mechanical means,
whether attached to signs, vehicles, structures, poles, trees, other
vegetation, or similar support structures.
         (m)   Signs not addressed by the code; where the code is silent or
where the rules of this code do not provide a basis for concluding that a sign
is allowed, the sign in question is prohibited.
      (9)   Permits. A permit is required to erect, re-erect, construct, alter,
expand, or move all permanent sign types within the city limits. A separate
permit shall be required for each sign or group of signs on a single supporting
structure. In addition to a sign permit, an electrical permit shall be obtained
before erecting, re-erecting, constructing, altering, or moving electric signs.
General sign maintenance, such as cleaning, painting or changing a sign's
content or a face of the same size that does not alter or change a sign's
structure does not require a permit.
      (10)   Severability. These regulations must be interpreted in a manner
consistent with the First Amendment guarantees of free speech. If any provision
of these regulations is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
invalid, such finding shall not affect the validity of other provisions of this
chapter which can be given effect without the invalid provision.
   (B)   General regulations.
      (1)   Sign design and construction. All signage shall be designed,
constructed, and installed by a licensed contractor in accordance with these
regulations and applicable building codes.
         (a)   New sign placement shall be integrated with established
locational patterns of similar signs.
         (b)   No sign, other than an official traffic sign or similar sign,
shall be constructed or placed within the boundary of any street or public
right-of-way unless specifically authorized herein; authorized by other
applicable laws; or permitted by special city authorization.
         (c)   No sign or sign structure shall be erected or placed in a manner
that would obscure visibility or be located in the sight-triangle at street
intersections, nor be placed where it may interfere with, obstruct the view of,
or be confused with any authorized sign, traffic signal, or device.
         (d)   Signs shall maintain a minimum distance of six feet horizontal
clearance and 12 feet overhead clearance from electrical conductors and
communications equipment or lines. Signs and their supporting structures shall
also maintain clearance from all surface and underground water, drainage and
utilities. Owner is required to verify and WAPA utility requirements.
         (e)   All sign materials and components shall be of the quality and
grade needed to withstand specified wind and seismic hazard conditions in
Northern Arizona.
         (f)   Combustible materials, other than approved plastics, shall not
be used in the construction of any electronic signs.
         (g)   All signs, regardless of materials, shall be securely anchored
to withstand the identified wind and seismic hazards that exist in Northern
Arizona, as approved by the Chief Building Official.
      (2)   Sign illumination. Signs may be illuminated as provided by these
regulations and as allowed per type within the permanent and temporary sign
regulations. All illuminated signs shall adhere to the provisions provided in §
152.059, unless otherwise specified herein.
      (3)   Sign maintenance. All signs shall be maintained as follows:
         (a)   The owner or tenant of property on which a sign is located shall
be responsible for maintaining the signage in conformance with any conditions
on the sign permit and the regulations herein.
         (b)   A damaged sign base shall be repaired within 30 days of written
city notice of violation.
         (c)   No metal pole cover or sign cabinet shall show effects of rust
or rust stains. Any damaged internally illuminated sign cabinet or sign panel
shall not be illuminated until repaired.
         (d)   If a sign is deemed unsafe by the city, or if it is unlawfully
installed, placed, or maintained in violation of any building codes or
regulations herein, the sign owner or tenant shall bring sign into compliance
or remove said sign within ten days after written city notice, or immediately
in case of imminent danger. If full compliance has not occurred after ten days,
the city may remove, or have the sign removed, at the sole expense of the owner
and/or tenant.
         (e)   The changeable letter panels of a permitted, changeable copy
sign shall be subject to the same maintenance requirements as imposed on the
sign structure by the sign permit.
      (4)   Sign measurements. The following will be used to determine sign
height and area.
         (a)   Sign height is determined by measuring from the highest point of
a sign/sign structure to the ground surface located directly below the sign.
         (b)   Sign area of each permitted sign shall be measured as follows
and illustrated in
Figure 058-A and
Figure 058-B.
            1.   Background mounted sign. Sign copy mounted or painted on a
background panel or an area distinctively prepared as a background for sign
copy shall be measured as the outside dimensions of the background panel or
surface. The base of a freestanding monument sign shall not be calculated as
sign area unless the base contains sign copy.
            2.   Individual mounted sign. The area encompassing sign copy
mounted or painted as individual letters or graphics against a wall or the
fascia of a building or other structure that has not been painted, textured, or
otherwise altered to provide a distinctive background for the sign copy shall
be measured as the area enclosed by the smallest shape or combination of shapes
capable of encompassing the perimeter of the background area of the sign.
            3.   Two-part signage. Where a sign consists of individual elements
such as letters, symbols, or other graphic objects or representations that are
painted, attached to, or otherwise affixed to a surface such as a wall, window,
canopy, awning, architectural projection, or any surface not specifically
designed to serve as a sign background, the sign area shall be based on the
area or sum of the individual areas of the smallest shape or combination of
shapes capable of encompassing the perimeters of the individual elements
comprising the sign.
            4.   Sign frame or cabinet. The area of sign faces enclosed in
frames or cabinets shall be based on the outer dimensions of the sign face.
            5.   One-face sign. The total area of the single face only.
            6.   Two-face sign. If the interior angle between the two faces of
a sign is 45 degrees or less, the sign area shall be the total area of one face
only; if the angle between two sign faces is greater than 45 degrees, the sign
area shall be the sum of the areas of the two faces.
            7.   Sign with three or more faces. The sign area shall be the sum
of the areas of all faces.
            8.   Irregular-shaped sign. The area of a sign with an irregular
shape shall be measured using the appropriate mathematical formula for
determining the area of the shape used.
            9.   Spherical, free-form, sculptural, or other non-planar sign.
The signage area shall be the sum of the areas comprising the sign, using only
the four vertical sides of the smallest cube that will encompass such sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ba1c1b633916dbf854fc45ce7e208e4cc617f0d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1438.png]
Figure 058-A. Sign area is an aggregate of visible faces for Multi-Faced,
Irregular shaped. Sculptural, and other non-planer signs.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ba1c1b633916dbf854fc45ce7e208e4cc617f0d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1440.png]
Figure 058-B. The smallest shape or combination of shapes that encapsulates the
sign content is the sign area for Individual Mounted Signs
         (c)   Total aggregate sign area. The total aggregate sign area shall
be the sum of all areas of each allowable sign placed on a parcel, with the
following restrictions:
            1.   For all commercial uses, the total aggregate sign area
allowable to any business having an external business entrance shall not exceed
the greater of 50 square feet or 1.5 square feet per lineal foot of building
frontage per business, but in no case shall it exceed 300 square feet, per
business. A business with building frontage longer than 200 feet may increase
their allowable sign area to a maximum of 500 square feet for that business.
            2.   All commercial uses having only an external building wall
facing a public street shall be permitted exterior signage with a total
aggregate sign area not to exceed 50 square feet.
            3.   Commercial uses having only an internal business entrance and
no external wall facing a public street, public-access driveway, or public
alley shall be limited to business identification signage on a multi-tenant,
external, wall-mounted sign.
            4.   Building frontage is the side facing a public street, drive or
alley. Multi-story building lineal footage is limited to the ground floor
lineal footage, except as modified herein.
      (5)   Flags. Flags are permitted only as follows:
            1.   For all flags, the size of a flag on a flagpole less than 20
feet tall shall not exceed three feet by five feet, and flags on flagpoles
taller than 20 feet shall not be larger than one-quarter the height of the
flagpole.
            2.   Exempt flags under §
152.058(7) do not require a permit.
            3.   One non-exempt flag per lot is allowed in all zoning districts
subject to a sign permit.
   (C)   Permanent sign regulations.
      (1)   The Permanent Sign Type Allowance Table-058-C below should be used
in conjunction with regulations in the administration and general regulations
sections, as well as with the specific conditions stated after the table.
Permanent Sign Type Allowance Table-058-C
                            P = Permitted N= Not Permitted
Sign Type Part of Aggregate Use                            Lighting Permitted
          Sign Area         Single Family Rural Commercial
                            or Residential
Permanent Sign Type Allowance Table-058-C
                                    P = Permitted N= Not
                                    Permitted
Sign Type         Part of Aggregate Use                      Lighting Permitted
                  Sign Area         Single Family
                                    Rural or      Commercial
                                    Residential
Awning/Canopy     Yes               N             P          No
Directional       No                N             P          Yes
Directory         No                P             P          Yes
Drive-through     No                N             P          Yes
Electronic        Yes               N             P          Yes
Message Sign
Freestanding/Mon  Yes               N             P          Yes
ument
Gas-filled        No                N             P          Yes
Marquee           Yes               N             P          Yes
Projecting        Yes               N             P          No
Pylon             Yes               N             P          Yes
Reader Panel      Yes               N             P          Yes
Shingle           Yes               N             P          No
Subdivision Entry Yes               P             N          Yes
Monument
Wall              Yes               P             P          Yes
Window            No                N             Y          Yes
 
      (2)   Awning/canopy sign. Awning/canopy signs are permitted as identified
in Table-058-C, subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   Sign copy, including logos, shall not exceed 1.5 square feet per
lineal foot of building frontage.
         (b)   Signs shall only be displayed on ground-floor awnings.
         (c)   If encroaching over an abutting city right-of-way line, a
revocable city encroachment permit or other City Council-granted authorization
shall be required.
      (3)   Directional sign. Directional signs are permitted as identified in
Table-058-C, with a maximum of one directional sign permitted per driveway or
parking entry and with a maximum area of three square feet and a maximum height
of three feet.
      (4)   Directory sign. Directory signs are meant to assist the public, law
enforcement, and emergency personnel locate a particular building or individual
unit and are permitted as identified in
Table-058-C, subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   Properties with three or more buildings shall have an internally
illuminated directory that shows the street address, layout of the complex, the
location of the viewer in the complex, and the unit designations within the
complex.
         (b)   Signs shall not exceed a maximum height of six feet or maximum
area of 24 square feet.
      (5)   Drive-through business sign. Directional signs are permitted as
identified in
Table-058-C, subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   No more than two drive-through lane signs are allowed per drive-
through lane serving a business establishment.
         (b)   Signs may be wall or ground mounted.
         (c)   Signs shall be no greater than 50 square feet in area and seven
feet in height. Ground mounted signs shall be constructed with a solid base.
      (6)   Electronic message sign. Electronic message (EM) signs with
intermittent, scrolling, or flashing illumination are permitted as identified
in
Table-058-C, subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   Signs must be entirely located on-site.
         (b)   There shall be no moving or flashing green or red features that
could be mistaken as traffic control devices.
         (c)   The digital message portion of a sign shall not exceed 50% of a
sign area.
         (d)   Signs shall be installed at least 150 feet from a designated
crosswalk.
         (e)   Signs shall not be installed within 350 feet of a residential
structure.
         (f)   EM signs shall be separated from other EM signs by a minimum of
1,000 feet.
         (g)   All continuous-loop image progression on a sign must have a
minimum change interval or dwell time of at least four seconds.
         (h)   All EM signs shall have automatic dimming controls, either
photocell (hardwired) or software-based, to reduce illumination intensity as
ambient lighting conditions change.
      (7)   Free standing monument sign. Freestanding/monument signs are
permitted as identified in
Table-058-C, subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   Single-use buildings on a single lot are allowed one
freestanding/monument sign per street frontage, or one for every 200 feet of
street frontage, whichever is greater. Multiple signs must be at least 100 feet
apart.
         (b)   Single-use buildings, complexes, and centers on a single lot
less than five acres are allowed one (1) freestanding/monument sign with a
maximum height of eight feet, including any supporting structures, and a
maximum area of 40 square feet.
         (c)   Single-use buildings, complexes, and centers on a single lot
larger than five acres are allowed one freestanding/monument sign with a
maximum height of ten feet, including any supporting structures, and a maximum
area of 60 square feet.
         (d)   A portion of a freestanding or monument sign may have changeable
copy that does not exceed 25% of the total sign area.
         (e)   Freestanding/monument signs shall have monument-type bases of
masonry construction or other architectural-grade material.
         (f)   Freestanding or monument signs located in the CBD district shall
be located on low planter walls or similar and incorporate distinctive elements
of the community and/or environment, as approved by the Director.
         (g)   Address numerals shall be included on all freestanding sign
structures. The numerals shall be at least six inches tall.
         (h)   No part of a freestanding or monument sign shall be located
within three feet of the front property line or within six feet of a side or
rear property line.
         (i)   Freestanding/monument signs for residential subdivisions or
multi-family developments shall be subject to the following conditions:
         (j)   The maximum height shall be six feet and the maximum area shall
be 24 square feet.
         (k)   No more than one sign shall be located at each street access to
a subdivision or multifamily development.
         (l)   The text area of a sign may have interior lighting or be back-
lit where the source of illumination is not visible. Back-lit, non-opaque
panels are not permitted.
         (m)   The text area of a sign may be illuminated from the exterior of
a sign by fully shielded, ground or sign-mounted directional down-lighting
only.
      (8)   Gas-filled sign. Gas-filled signs (neon, argon, krypton, etc.) or
signs comprised of LEDs or other technology and designed to mimic the style of
gas-filled signs are permitted as identified in
Table-058-C, subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   Gas-filled signs are limited to interior window display only.
         (b)   The total area of gas-filled signage for any business shall not
exceed eight square feet.
         (c)   No more than four gas-filled signs shall be allowed for any
business.
      (9)   Marquee sign. Marquee signs are permitted as identified in Table-
058-C, subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   They shall only be affixed to a marquee located at the primary
entrance of the use.
         (b)   The colors, materials, and design of a marquee sign shall
complement the design of the building(s) it serves.
         (c)   A marquee sign may be illuminated internally or indirectly from
above.
         (d)   A marquee sign may include a manually, electronically or
mechanically changeable message display.
         (e)   Marquee signs shall not obstruct sidewalks or required ADA-
accessible travel paths or impact the visibility of other signs.
         (f)   Lighting fixtures shall be decorative and architecturally
compatible with the buildings they illuminate; marquee signs may contain
flashing or blinking elements within the sign area.
      (10)   Projecting sign. Projecting signs are permitted as identified in
Table-058-C, subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   One projecting sign is permitted for each business front and
shall be adjacent to the business it identifies.
         (b)   Such signs shall only be permitted if they are affixed to a
building and do not project into the public right-of-way, unless within the CBD
District.
         (c)   The maximum area for each projecting sign shall be four square
feet, except in the IP District where the maximum projecting sign area shall be
14 square feet.
         (d)   The maximum distance between the wall and the outer edge of a
projecting sign shall be four feet, or if above a paved public sidewalk, 50% of
the width of the sidewalk, whichever is less.
         (e)   Such signs shall be located so that the base edge of a sign is
not less than eight feet from the sidewalk or ground. Such signs shall require
both a city sign permit and if encroaching over an abutting city right-of-way
line, a revocable city encroachment permit or other City Council-granted
authorization.
      (11)   Pylon sign. Pylon signs are permitted as identified in
Table-058-C, subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   One freestanding sign shall be allowed per property; additional
signs are allowed on a property with street frontage that exceeds 200 feet. If
multiple signs are placed on a single street frontage, there shall be a minimum
of 100 feet between each sign.
         (b)   For single-use buildings, the maximum height of a sign shall be
14 feet, including any supporting structures, and the maximum area shall be 50
square feet. For single-use buildings with frontage on U.S. Highway 89 or State
Route 98, the maximum height of a sign shall be 18 feet.
         (c)   For all complexes and centers on a single lot less than five
acres, the maximum height of a sign shall be 14 feet, including any supporting
structures, and the maximum area shall be 75 square feet. For said complexes
and centers with frontage on U.S. Highway 89 or State Route 98, the maximum
height of a sign shall be 18 feet.
         (d)   For all complexes and centers on a single lot greater than five
acres, the maximum height of a sign shall be 14 feet, including any supporting
structures, and the maximum area shall be 200 square feet. For said complexes
with frontage on U.S. Highway 89 or State Route 98, the maximum height of a
sign shall be 18 feet.
         (e)   A portion of a pylon sign may have changeable copy, which shall
not exceed 50% of the allowable sign area for single-use buildings and 25% of
the allowable sign area for complexes and centers on a single lot.
         (f)   A minimum setback of ten feet from all property lines shall be
established; a minimum setback of 12 feet from adjoining residential properties
shall be required.
         (g)   Sign supports shall comprise at least 30% of total sign width;
each single support shall comprise at least 15% of total sign width.
         (h)   Signs shall be composed of a decorative base, support, and sign
face.
      (12)   Reader panel sign. Reader panel signs are permitted as identified
in Table-058-C, subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   They must have copy that can be changed manually and immediately
but may not include electronic messaging.
         (b)   The reader panel does not exceed the allowed sign area of the
sign being replaced.
         (c)   Reader panel signs shall be covered with clear acrylic or other
suitable material to prevent the characters from being dislodged.
      (13)   Shingle sign. Shingle signs are permitted as identified in
Table-058-C, subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   These signs shall be limited to one per tenant space frontage
and located at a point of public access.
         (b)   The area of a shingle sign shall not exceed five square feet.
         (c)   A shingle sign shall be in front of the tenant space it pertains
to and shall be suspended from a covered porch, walkway, extended roof, or
similar architectural element.
         (d)   A minimum clearance of eight feet shall be maintained beneath a
shingle sign.
      (14)   Subdivision entry sign. Residential subdivision entry signs are
permitted as identified in
Table-058-C, subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   These entry signs shall be located at the principal entry or
entries to residential subdivisions, including one entry sign on each side of
the street leading to the development.
         (b)   The maximum size (area) of a subdivision entry sign shall not
exceed 25 square feet, and the maximum height shall not exceed eight feet.
         (c)   The subdivision entry sign shall be set back a minimum of three
feet behind the right- of-way boundary.
         (d)   A residential subdivision entry sign may be internally or
externally illuminated by downfacing lighting only. Such signs shall be
incorporated into the design of an entry wall, which shall be architecturally
compatible with other subdivision improvements.
      (15)   Wall sign. Attached/wall-mounted signs are permitted as identified
in
Table-058-C, subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   Attached/wall-mounted signs may only be supported by a building
facade or exterior face.
         (b)   One attached sign per street frontage is permitted per business
in all commercial districts.
         (c)   Attached or wall-mounted signs shall project no more than 12
inches from the wall to which it is attached; halo-illuminated signs must not
exceed a 1.75-inch separation from the wall.
         (d)   Attached or wall-mounted signs shall not extend above the roof,
wall, parapet, or fascia to which they are attached.
         (e)   Attached or wall-mounted signs are permitted on a roof surface
if the roof is within 25 degrees of vertical, but no higher than the top of the
roof.
         (f)   Attached or wall-mounted signs shall not exceed 25 feet in
height.
         (g)   Residential subdivisions shall be allowed one attached or wall-
mounted sign, not to exceed two square feet in area per parcel.
         (h)   Residential subdivisions and multi-family developments shall be
allowed one attached or wall-mounted sign per entrance, with such signs not to
exceed an area of 24 square feet.
         (i)   Multi-tenant building wall-mounted identification signs are
permitted in the commercial and industrial zoning districts, provided the
maximum area of multi-tenant signs does not exceed the greater of 50 square
feet or 1.5 square feet per lineal foot of combined building frontage for each
business, and in no case exceeds 300 square feet per multi-tenant sign.
      (16)   Window sign. Window signs are permitted as identified in Table-
058-C, subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   A total of four window signs maximum are permitted per business.
         (b)   Permanent window signs shall be limited to 25% of the total
window area.
         (c)   Permanent window signs shall be prepared by a professional sign
company.
      (17)   Vehicle signs. Signs on a truck, bus, car, boat, trailer or other
motorized or nonmotorized vehicle and/or equipment are permitted provided all
the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The primary purpose of such vehicle or equipment is not the
display of signs.
         (b)   Such signs are magnetic, decals, or painted upon an integral
part of the vehicle or equipment as originally designed by the manufacturer,
and do not break the silhouette of the vehicle.
         (c)   Vehicle/equipment is in operating condition, currently
registered and licensed to operate on public streets when applicable, and
actively used in the daily function of the business to which such signs relate.
         (d)   Vehicles and equipment are not used primarily as static
displays, advertising a product or service, nor utilized as storage or shelter.
         (e)   During periods of inactivity exceeding 48 hours such vehicle/
equipment are not so parked or placed that the signs thereon are displayed to
the public. Vehicles and equipment engaged in active construction projects and
the on-premise storage of equipment and vehicles offered to the general public
for rent or lease shall not be subjected to this condition.
   (D)   Temporary sign regulations.
      (1)   The Temporary Sign Type Allowance
Table-058-D below should be used in conjunction with regulations in the
administration and general sections, as well as with the specific conditions
stated within this section. Temporary signs do not require a permit.
Temporary Sign Type Allowance Table-058-D
                                 P = Permitted N = Not
                                 Permitted
Temporary Sign Part of Aggregate Use                      Lighting Permitted
Type           Sign Area         Single Family
                                 Rural or      Commercial
                                 Residential
Temporary Sign Type Allowance Table-058-D
                                 P = Permitted N = Not
                                 Permitted
Temporary Sign Part of Aggregate Use                      Lighting Permitted
Type           Sign Area         Single Family
                                 Rural or      Commercial
                                 Residential
A-frame        No                N             P          No
Banner         No                P             P          No
Development    No                P             P          No
Directional
Residential    No                P             N          No
Subdivision
Sign Walkers   No                N             P          No
Window         No                N             P          Yes
Yard           No                P             P          No
 
      (2)   Temporary A-frame sign. A-frame signs are permitted as identified
in Table-058-D, subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   Uses permitted to display A-frame signs may display a maximum of
one such sign per public street, driveway or alley frontage. Such signs shall
be located on the same property as the use it pertains to or within the right-
of-way of the nearest adjacent public street.
         (b)   Signs shall not be located on the paved portion of any street or
sidewalk, or any median.
         (c)   Such signs shall not be located within a designated parking or
loading area; nor be located in a manner that poses a traffic vision or sight-
triangle hazard.
         (d)   A-frame signs must be placed at least one foot behind a curb or
public sidewalk. If no curb or public sidewalk is present, signs shall be
located at least five feet from the edge of the paved portion of the public
right-of-way; businesses within the CBD District may use A-frame signs on
public or private sidewalks, provided the portable sign does not obstruct
pedestrian walkways and is only placed within the first three feet of sidewalk
located immediately adjacent to the curb, leaving a minimum sidewalk clearance
of five feet, in accordance with ADA Standards.
         (e)   No A-frame sign may be greater than 12 square feet per side or
four feet in height.
         (f)   Signs shall be weighted down and constructed of wrought iron,
sheet metal, one-inch-thick plastic, or of wood that is at least one inch
thick. No other materials are permitted.
         (g)   Signs shall not be homemade but shall be manufactured by a sign
manufacturing company.
         (h)   Signs shall be clean and in good working order.
         (i)   Attachments to signs are limited to balloons flown no higher
than six feet from the ground. If attachments are used, the A-frame sign must
be set back from the curb and/or sidewalk a minimum of three feet.
         (j)   Landscaping and paved surfaces cannot be modified or damaged to
accommodate an A-frame sign.
         (k)   Signs shall only be displayed during business hours.
      (3)   Temporary banner sign. Banner signs are permitted as identified in
Table-058-D, subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   In residential districts, banners are permitted for the duration
of the special occasion.
         (b)   For multi-family or commercial uses in residential districts and
in the commercial and industrial zoning districts, one banner no larger than 32
square feet is permitted per development or business.
         (c)   Banner signs shall be securely affixed to the wall or fence of a
permanent structure or building, where feasible. No banner shall exceed the
height of the prevailing roofline or exceed the building height allowed by the
city, whichever is less.
         (d)   Banner signs shall not be located in a manner that poses a
traffic hazard and shall not be placed within the public right-of-way or the
sight-triangle at intersections.
         (e)   Banner signs may be displayed for a maximum of nine days per
occurrence, for up to six occurrences per calendar year, with at least 14 days
between occurrences.
      (4)   Temporary development directional sign. Directional signs are
permitted as identified in
Table-058-D, subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   Directional signs must be placed at least one foot behind the
curb. If no curb is present, signs shall be located at least one foot from the
edge of the paved portion of the public right-of-way. Weekend directional signs
shall not be placed on sidewalks or within the center medians that divide
portions of paved or unpaved roadways.
         (b)   The area of development directional signs shall not exceed four
square feet.
         (c)   The height of development directional signs shall not exceed
three feet.
         (d)   Signs shall be constructed of heavy duty, weather-resistant
material, such as laminated paper, plastic foam core or similar, and anchor
stakes may be wood or heavy gauge wire.
         (e)   Weekend directional signs shall not be attached to any utility
pole or box, light pole, street sign, or tree or to any structure within the
public right-of-way.
      (5)   Temporary residential subdivision. Residential subdivision signs
are permitted in single-family residential zoning districts for each builder in
a recorded subdivision plat only in conjunction with a valid building permit
for a model home complex and as identified in Table-058-D, subject to the
following conditions:
         (a)   The principal entry sign allowance is one per entry with a
maximum area of 32 square feet and maximum height of ten feet.
         (b)   The model home complex sign allowance is one per complex with a
maximum area of 96 square feet and maximum height of eight feet.
      (6)   Temporary sign walker sign. Sign walker signs are permitted as
identified in
Table-058-D, subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   If within a right-of-way, a sign walker shall be positioned
behind the curb or, if no curb is present, ten feet behind the edge of the
pavement.
         (b)   Sign walkers shall not erect or place tents, temporary
structures, umbrellas, chairs, or stools within the public right-of-way or
adjacent property.
         (c)   Sign walkers shall not be positioned to obstruct vehicle sight
lines.
         (d)   Sign walkers shall not obstruct the free movement of pedestrians
on sidewalks.
         (e)   Sign walkers shall not stand in the medians of public streets.
         (f)   The sign worn, held, or balanced by a sign walker shall be a
maximum of five square feet in size and may be double sided.
      (7)   Temporary window sign. Window signs shall not exceed 50% of the
total window area.
         (a)   Holiday decorations are not considered temporary signs and may
be displayed on a temporary basis for civic, patriotic or religious holidays.
      (8)   Temporary yard sign. Yard signs are permitted as identified in
Table-058-D, subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   For residential uses, a maximum of two signs are permitted per
property, with a maximum size of two square feet per sign and a maximum sign
height of six feet.
         (b)   For multi-family uses, yard signs shall be limited to one sign
per property with a maximum size not to exceed six square feet and maximum
height of six feet.
         (c)   For commercial uses in the residential district and in
commercial, industrial, and airport zoning districts, yard signs shall be
limited to one sign per property with a maximum area not to exceed 32 square
feet and a maximum height of eight feet.
         (d)   Yard signs shall not be located within any public or private
right-of-way unless otherwise specifically allowed by law.
         (e)   Yard signs may only be located on property that is owned or
leased by the person who owns the sign and must not be placed on any utility
pole, streetlight, tree or other natural vegetation, or on public property
unless otherwise specifically allowed by law.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.059 OUTDOOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   Purpose. These regulations are intended to establish standards that
ensure minimal light pollution, prevent direct light-trespass onto abutting
properties, reduce glare, increase energy conservation, while providing for
night lighting and security.
   (B)   Applicability. These regulations shall apply to all outdoor lighting
including, but not limited to, search, spot or floodlights and general outdoor
lighting for: buildings and structures, recreational uses, parking lots,
signage, landscaping security lighting, and other possible types of outdoor
lighting. Roadway and street lighting are exempt from all provisions of this §
152.059.
   (C)   Nonresidential lighting. The following standards apply to the lighting
of all nonresidential outdoor lighting uses except public or private athletic/
arena recreation fields and facilities.
      (1)   The height of any light fixture or illumination source shall not
exceed 30 feet, except as otherwise required by applicable law.
      (2)   All lighting sources shall be down-lighting, and fully shielded to
prevent direct light trespass onto any adjacent property.
      (3)   The rated Correlated Color Temperature (CCT) of light sources shall
not exceed 3000K (subject to a manufacture specified color stability variation
of no more than +/- 200k in CCT) to prevent the formation of an urban light
cloud. Fully shielded means that fixtures are shielded in such a manner that
light rays emitted by the fixture, either directly from the lamp or indirectly
from the fixture, are projected below a horizontal plane running through the
lowest point on the fixture where light is emitted, to prevent any light
trespass from extending beyond any subject property boundaries and onto any
abutting properties. See Light Fixture Diagram below for "acceptable" and
"unacceptable" light fixtures regarding this section, as approved by the
Director.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ba1c1b633916dbf854fc45ce7e208e4cc617f0d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1450.png]
 
      (4)   Recreational lighting exempted from the above standards shall not
exceed 2,250 lumens after 11:00 p.m. without a temporary use permit.
   (D)   Security ami landscape lighting.
      (1)   Security and landscape lighting shall be fully shielded and
directed downward to prevent any direct light trespass onto any adjacent
property or into the night sky, with a maximum CCT of 3,000K.
   (E)   Residential lighting. All exterior lighting shall be limited to 1600
lumens per fixture and any residential outdoor lighting in excess of 1600
lumens shall be fully shielded to prevent any light trespass onto any adjoining
property. Indirect lighting cannot be prevented, see definition in §
152.137.
   (F)   Other pole-mounted lighting (walkways and paths). All lights mounted
on poles shall be directed down. The light source shall be fully shielded to
prevent any direct light trespass onto any adjacent property.
   (G)   Searchlights. The operation of searchlights shall be allowed subject
to the following conditions:
      (1)   During the months of May through October, searchlights shall be
operated only between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m.;
      (2)   During the months of November through April, searchlights shall be
operated only between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.; and
      (3)   Searchlights shall not be operated on residentially zoned
properties.
   (H)   Outdoor sign lighting. Commercial outdoor sign lighting shall only be
allowed by means of an internal lighting source, or fully shielded and direct
down lighting onto the sign. Sign down lighting shall only be allowed for signs
less than 20 feet high and fully shielded and/or directed to prevent any direct
light trespass onto any adjacent property.
   (I)   Non-conforming lighting.
      (1)   All existing outdoor lighting legally installed before April 22,
2023, the effective date of this chapter, that does not conform with the
provisions of this chapter, shall be considered legal non-conforming.
      (2)   When legal non-conforming and nonconforming outdoor lighting is
discontinued for six months or is damaged to the point of requiring repairs for
safe operation, the reilluminated, reactivated, repaired or replacement fixture
shall be required to be brought into compliance with the provisions of this
section.
      (3)   All legal non-conforming lighting and fixtures shall be brought
into conformance when performing any significant maintenance or upgrades, or
expansions to the outdoor lighting. The replacement lamp shall not exceed 3000K
CCT.
      (4)   Whenever the use of any existing building, structure, facility or
premises is changed to a new use, all existing legal non-conforming and
nonconforming outdoor lighting shall be brought into compliance with this
section before the new use commences.
   (J)   Exemptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply to roadway
or street lighting installed in a public rights-of-way or on any property owned
by a governmental entity.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.070 PURPOSE.
   This chapter defines the authority and responsibilities of city staff and
official bodies in the administration of this chapter.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.071 CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council is the governing body of the city as established in Chapter
30 of this code.
   (A)   Powers and duties. The City Council shall have the following powers
and duties relating to the administration and enforcement of this chapter:
      (1)   Act as the review and decision-making body on all specified
planning matters as outlined in this chapter or by state law; and
      (2)   Take such other action not expressly delegated exclusively to the
Director, the Planning Commission, or the Board of Adjustment as the City
Council may deem desirable and necessary to implement the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.072 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall be established as set forth
in §
31.24 of this code (A.R.S. §9-461.02).
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall have the
following powers and duties:
      (1)   Initiate, conduct hearings, and make recommendations to the City
Council on proposed amendments to the general plan map and text, pursuant to §
152.088;
      (2)   Initiate, conduct hearings, and make recommendations to the City
Council on proposed amendments to the zoning map and to the text of this title,
pursuant to §§
152.089 and
152.090;
      (3)   Initiate, conduct hearings, and decide on proposed conditional use
permits, pursuant to §
152.091;
      (4)   Initiate, conduct hearings, and make recommendations to the City
Council on proposed modifications to approved conditional use permits, pursuant
to §
152.086(J);
      (5)   Exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as are
provided by law and directed by the City Council.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.073 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   The Board of Adjustment is hereby created, which shall have the powers and
duties set forth in this code (A.R.S. § 9-462.06).
   (A)   Appointment and members. The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five
electors of the city, appointed by the Council. In the absence of a Board of
Adjustment or by desire of the Council, it may act as the Board of Adjustment.
In such case, the Council shall meet as a Board of Adjustment and not take
action as a Board at regular Council meetings. The Council acting as a Board
shall adhere to the applicable rules listed in this section.
   (B)   Term of office and removal.
      (1)   All appointments shall serve staggered terms of three years.
Vacancies occurring other than through expiration of the term may be filled for
the unexpired portion of the term, or as deemed appropriate by Council.
      (2)   The term of all members shall extend until their successors are
qualified, provided that three successive unexcused or unexplained absences
from any regular or special meeting shall be grounds for termination at the
pleasure of the appointing authority without the necessity of a hearing or
notice. Such action shall be final.
      (3)   Members of the Board may, after a public hearing, be removed by the
Council for inefficiency, neglect of duty or malfeasance in office. Council
shall file a written statement of the reasons for the removal.
      (4)   All members shall serve without pay. However, members may be
reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in connection with their duties upon
authorization by the Board and approval of the expenditures by the Council.
   (C)   Organization.
      (1)   The Board shall elect a Chairperson and a Vice-Chairperson from its
members, who shall serve in this capacity for one year and until their
successors are elected and qualified.
      (2)   The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings and exercise all the
usual rights, duties and prerogatives of the head of any similar organization.
The Chairperson shall have the power to administer oaths and take evidence.
      (3)   In the absence of the Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson shall
perform the required duties.
      (4)   Chairperson vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term by a
new election. In the case of the Council acting as Board, the Mayor shall act
as Chairperson.
      (5)   The Council shall appoint a Secretary who shall keep minutes of the
Board's proceedings, showing the votes of each member and records of its
examinations and other official actions. The Secretary shall cause a file to be
kept of all Board meetings in the office of the City Clerk and retained as a
public record.
   (D)   Meeting and hearing conduct. Meetings and hearings shall be conducted
in accordance with the following:
      (1)   Meetings of the Board shall be open to the public. The Board shall
conduct their open meetings according to the applicable procedures provided by
law, including but not limited to the Arizona open meetings laws.
      (2)   Meetings and hearings shall be conducted at the call of the
Chairperson or the Director and at such other times as the appointed body may
determine. All meetings and hearings shall be conducted pursuant to the
procedures set forth in this chapter, city code or state law.
      (3)   The appointed commission may conduct special meetings for good
cause on call of the chairperson, or Director, or by a majority of the members,
or as may be scheduled by a majority vote of the members at a previous meeting.
The manner of the call shall be recorded in the minutes of the special meeting,
and at least 24 hours' notice of the meeting shall be provided to each member
and the general public.
      (4)   The Board may ask city departments for assistance in the
performance of its duties, and it shall be the duty of each department to
render assistance to the Board as may be reasonably required.
      (5)   In the case of the Council acting as the Board, a majority of the
Council shall constitute a quorum. Otherwise, the presence of a majority of the
Board shall constitute a quorum. The Board shall act by motion or resolution.
The affirmative vote of a majority of all members shall be required for passage
of any matter before the Board. A member may abstain from voting only upon a
declaration of a conflict of interest, in which case the member shall not
participate in the deliberations of the matter in question.
   (E)   Powers and duties. The Board of Adjustment shall have the following
powers and duties:
      (1)   Hear and decide appeals in which it is alleged there is an error in
a decision made by the Director in the enforcement of the zoning ordinance;
      (2)   Hear and decide appeals for variances from the terms of the zoning
ordinance only if, because of special circumstances applicable to the property,
including its size, shape, topography, location, or surroundings, the strict
application of the zoning ordinance will deprive such property of privileges
enjoyed by other property of the same classification in the same zoning
district. Any variance granted is subject to such conditions to assure the
change authorized shall not constitute a grant of special privileges
inconsistent with the limitations upon other properties in the vicinity and
zone in which such property is located;
      (3)   Reverse or affirm the order, requirement or decision of the
Director appealed from, and make such order, requirement, decision or
determination as necessary; and
      (4)   Shall exercise such other powers as may be granted by this chapter
and adopt all rules and procedures necessary for the conduct of its business.
   (F)   Restrictions. The Board of Adjustment may not:
      (1)   Make any changes in the uses permitted in any zoning district, or
make any changes in the terms of the zoning ordinance provided the restriction
in this division shall not affect the authority to grant variances pursuant to
this section; and
      (2)   Grant a variance if the special circumstances applicable to the
property are self-imposed by the property owner.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.074 PLANNING AND ZONING DIRECTOR.
    Pursuant to A.R.S § 9-462.05, the provisions of this code shall be
administered and enforced by the Planning and Zoning Director (Director). The
Director shall be a regular, full-time employee of the city and shall be
appointed by the City Manager. In the event that no such person is appointed or
if the Director becomes unavailable, the Assistant Planner or Chief Building
Official shall serve as the Director.
   (A)   Powers and duties. The Director is hereby authorized and is hereby
delegated the authority to commence an action to enforce the provisions of this
chapter, pursuant to A.R.S. § 9-462.05.A, § 9-462.05.B, and shall have the
following powers and duties:
      (1)   To establish rules, procedures and forms to provide for the
efficient and timely processing of applications or requests for action under
the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   To accomplish all administrative actions required by this chapter,
to include official notification, scheduling of hearings, preparation of
reports, receiving and processing appeals, acceptance and accounting of fees
and rejection or approval of permits and plans as provided in other provisions
of this chapter.
      (3)   To provide advice and recommendations to the Planning and Zoning
Commission, the Board of Adjustment and the City Council with respect to
applications, requests for approval and permits as required by this chapter.
      (4)   To interpret the zoning ordinance to the public, city departments
and other branches of government, subject to the advice of the City Attorney
and specific policies established by the City Council.
      (5)   To undertake preliminary discussions with and provide non-legal
advice to applicants requesting zoning interpretive actions.
      (6)   To assure that any development or use proceed only in accordance to
the terms, conditions or requirements established by the city's Boards,
Planning and Zoning Commission or City Council, as a term, condition or
requirement of development and/or permit approval.
      (7)   To direct such inspections, observations and analysis of any and
all construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair or use of buildings,
structures or land within the city as is necessary to fulfill the purposes and
procedures set forth in this chapter. No building shall be occupied until such
time as the Chief Building Official or Director has signed-off on, and a
certificate of occupancy has been issued under this chapter.
      (8)   To enter or inspect any building, structure, premises, or real
property in the city upon which, or in connection with which, a development or
land use is located or proposed for the purpose of inspection to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Such inspections shall be
carried out in compliance with A.R.S. § 9-833.
      (9)   To take such action as is necessary for the enforcement of this
chapter with respect to any violations of this chapter.
      (10)   To interpret the location of any zoning district boundary shown on
the zoning map adopted as part of this chapter when such location is in
dispute.
      (11)   The Director may, due to the complexity of any matter, unless
otherwise noted herein, refer a permit application to the Planning and Zoning
Commission for a recommendation.
      (12)   The Director shall delegate administrative functions as deemed
necessary to execute the intent of this code to members of the Planning and
Zoning Department staff.
   (B)   Restrictions. The Director may not:
      (1)   Make any changes in the uses permitted in any zoning classification
or zoning district, or make any change in the terms of the zoning ordinance;
provided that the restriction in this division shall not affect the authority
to grant variances pursuant to A.R.S § 9-462.06.
      (2)   Refuse to sign-off on a building permit or occupancy permit when
the applicant has complied with all provisions of this and other applicable
ordinances or codes.
   (C)   Liability. The Director, or designee, charged with the enforcement of
this chapter, acting in good faith and without malice in the discharge of the
duties described in this chapter, shall not be personally liable for any damage
that may accrue to persons or property as a result of an act, or by reason of
an act or omission in the discharge of their duties. A suit brought against the
Director, or designee, because such act or omission performed by the Director,
or designee, in the enforcement of any provision of such code or other
pertinent laws or ordinances implemented through the enforcement of this
chapter or enforced by the enforcement agency shall be defended by the city
until final termination of such proceedings. Any resulting judgment shall be
assumed by the city.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
ZONING PROCEDURES
§ 152.085 PURPOSE.
   This chapter provides procedures and requirements for the preparation,
filing, and processing of development applications and permits required by this
chapter.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.086 COMMON PROCEDURES.
   The preparation and filing of applications for land use permits,
entitlements, amendments (e.g., general plan, zoning map, and zoning code), and
other matters pertaining to this chapter shall comply with the following common
procedures, unless an exception to the common procedure is expressly identified
in subsequent and related sections of this chapter. Subsequent sections include
additional provisions that are unique to each type of application, including
staff and review board assignments and approval criteria.
   (A)   Pre-application conference.
      (1)   A pre-application meeting to discuss the nature of the proposed
application, application submittal requirements, the procedure for action, and
the standards for evaluation of the application shall be required for all
proposed:
         (a)   General plan text amendments;
         (b)   Zoning code text amendments;
         (c)   Zoning map amendments (Zone Change requests);
         (d)   Conditional use permits; and
         (e)   Variances.
      (2)   An applicant for a project not requiring pre-application review may
request, in writing to the Director, such review. No fee is charged for this
pre-application review service. The Director may require a pre-application
review for projects that don't typically require one, if deemed appropriate for
the project or development.
   (B)   Pre-application filing. Before filing any applications described by
this section, the applicant shall submit a preliminary description of the
proposal for review and comment by the Director and any other persons the
Director deems appropriate. This preliminary description shall include, at
minimum, a site plan and project narrative; both of sufficient scope and detail
to allow a basic review of location, land area, land use, land use intensity,
traffic generation and adjacent streets, stormwater drainage, utility services,
and previous case history.
   (C)   Pre-application conference.
      (1)   After receipt of a proper preliminary description of the proposal,
the Director shall schedule a pre-application conference. At the conference,
the applicant, the Director or designee, and any other persons the Director
deems appropriate to attend shall discuss the proposed development.
      (2)   Based upon the information provided by the applicant and the
provisions of this code, the parties should discuss in general the proposed
development, the applicable submittal requirements and standards of this code,
and conditions that may be appropriate to meet the purposes and requirements of
this code.
   (D)   Pre-application waivers. The Director may waive the requirement for a
pre-application review based on a determination that no purpose will be served
by the review.
   (E)   Pre-application completeness review meeting. Following the pre-
application conference, but prior to filing any application described by this
section, the applicant may request a pre-application completeness review
meeting. Although not required, this meeting is recommended to allow staff the
ability to complete a cursory review of the planned submittal material and
identify if any required items are missing that may prevent an application from
being accepted. This meeting should be scheduled several working days prior to
the submittal deadline.
   (F)   Complete application submittal (administrative completeness review).
      (1)   Applications. Completed applications shall be submitted to the
Planning and Zoning Department on a form and in such a manner as established by
the Director.
      (2)   Application schedule of deadlines. In accordance with A.R.S. § 9-
835, the Planning and Zoning Department shall publish an application schedule
of deadlines prior to the beginning of each new calendar year, which prescribes
the necessary monthly deadlines for submitting specified application types in
advance of being processed, advertised and reviewed by the appropriate
decision-making body pursuant to this chapter or the A.R.S.
      (3)   Authority to file applications. Any of the following persons or
entities may submit an application:
         (a)   The owner of the property;
         (b)   An agent representing the owner, duly authorized to do so in
writing by the owner.
      (4)   Payment, waiver and refund of application fees.
         (a)   Schedule of fees. The city shall establish fees for all
application and permit types. The fee schedule shall be adopted by the City
Council. Payment of the fee is required in order for an application to be
complete and begin the review process. No application or permit shall be
processed without payment of the applicable fee.
         (b)   Fee waiver or deferral. No fee shall be required when the
applicant is the city.
         (c)   Refund of fees.
            1.   Recognizing that filing fees are utilized to cover city costs
of public hearings, mailing, posting, transcripts, and staff time involved in
processing applications, no refunds shall be issued due to a disapproval of an
application.
            2.   In the case of an application withdrawal, the Director may
authorize a partial or complete refund based upon the extenuating circumstances
involved and the costs incurred to-date and determination of the status of the
application at the time of withdrawal.
   (G)   Application completeness review. Each application filed with the
Planning and Zoning Department shall be initially processed as follows:
      (1)   Completeness review. The Director shall review an application for
completeness and accuracy before it is accepted as being complete and
officially filed. The Director will consider an application complete when:
         (a)   All necessary application forms, documentation, exhibits,
materials, maps, plans, reports and other information specified in the
application form, and any additional information required by the Director have
been provided and accepted as adequate.
         (b)   All necessary fees have been paid and accepted.
      (2)   Notification of applicant. If the application is determined to be
complete, the application shall then be processed according to the procedures
set forth in this chapter. If an application is determined to be incomplete,
the Director shall provide written or electronic notice to the applicant along
with an explanation of the application's deficiencies. No further processing of
an incomplete application shall occur until the deficiencies are corrected in a
resubmittal. The city will not keep incomplete or partial applications. It is
the responsibility of the applicant to resubmit the entire complete application
packet when ready to do so.
      (3)   Expiration of application. If a pending application is never made
complete it shall expire. The fees paid by the applicant will remain in effect
for six months after the first filing wherein it shall expire and be deemed
withdrawn. Thirty days prior to that expiration date the planning staff shall
notify the applicant in writing that the application will become inactive. Any
refunds of fees shall then be processed according to §
152.086(B)(4).
      (4)   Extension of application. The Director may grant one six month
extension upon written request of the applicant. After expiration of the
application, and extension, if granted, a new application, including applicable
fees, plans, exhibits and other materials will be required to commence
processing of a new project application on the same property.
   (H)   Additional information. After the application has been accepted as
complete, the Director and/or any decision-making body may require the
applicant to submit additional information in order to evaluate fully whether
an application complies with the requirements of this chapter, state, or
federal law.
   (I)   Concurrent applications. When a project requires approvals under more
than one section of the zoning code, the individual applications may be
processed concurrently at the option of the Director and with the approval of
the applicant; provided, however, rezoning applications may not be approved
simultaneously with major general plan amendments. Rezone applications can only
be approved sequentially after major GPA adoption; the rezone application will
be cancelled if the major GPA is not adopted. Minor GPAs may be processed
concurrently with other applications. The concurrent processing of applications
shall be in all cases at the applicant's risk.
   (J)   Referral of application. At the discretion of the Director, or where
otherwise required by this chapter, A.R.S., or federal law, an application
filed in compliance with this chapter may be referred to any public agency that
may be affected by or have an interest in the proposed land use activity.
   (K)   Citizen review process.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the citizen review process is to provide a
means for the applicant, surrounding residential neighbors, and registered
neighborhood and homeowner's association representatives to review a
preliminary development proposal and solicit input and exchange information
about the proposed development. This citizen review process is intended to
result in an application that is responsive to neighborhood concerns and to
expedite and lessen the expense of the review process by avoiding needless
delays, appeals, remands or denials. The applicant is responsible for all costs
associated with the citizen review process.
      (2)   Applicability. In accordance with A.R.S. § 9-462.03, the following
application types shall conduct a neighborhood meeting, unless as may be
otherwise specified in this section, the city code, or A.R.S.
         (a)   General plan text amendments;
         (b)   Zoning code text amendments;
         (c)   Zoning map amendments (zone change);
         (d)   Conditional use permits (optional);
         (e)   Variances (optional); and
         (f)   Major modification to an approved plan or condition of approval
(when original approval requires neighborhood meeting).
      (3)   Neighborhood meeting schedule. The applicant shall be responsible
for scheduling and facilitating the meeting. The applicant is required to hold
one meeting, prior to the first public hearing on an application for a specific
project, but may hold more if desired. The required meeting shall be held at
least 15 calendar days before the first public hearing on the application.
Attendance at the meeting by Planning and Zoning staff is not required and will
be determined by the Director on a case-by-case basis.
      (4)   Neighborhood meeting location. Neighborhood meetings shall be held
at a location near the subject property. The meeting shall be held on a weekday
evening, or weekends at any reasonable time and in a publicly accessible
location.
      (5)   Neighborhood meeting notification requirements. Notice of the
meeting, which shall state a brief description of the application and include
the date, time, and place of the meeting, shall be provided by the applicant as
follows:
         (a)   Mailing a notice via U.S. first class mail not less than ten
calendar days prior to the date of the neighborhood meeting to:
            1.   All real property owners, as shown on the latest Coconino
County assessment records, within 300 feet of the outer boundary of the subject
property. This notification area may be expanded if the general plan or other
policy adopted by the City Council requires notification within a larger area
or the Director determines the potential impact of the project extends beyond
the required notification boundary;
            2.   Residents, registered neighborhoods, and homeowners
associations that may be impacted as a result of the application, and other
neighborhood entities identified by the city;
            3.   Interested parties which have requested they be placed on a
contact list for this application; and
            4.   Potentially interested parties that have been identified by
the city.
         (b)   Neighborhood meeting summary. The applicant shall submit to the
Director seven calendar days before the first public hearing on the matter a
written summary of the meeting. The following information shall be included in
the meeting summary, at a minimum: date, time, and location of the meeting; a
copy of the mailing list and meeting sign-in sheet, a summary of how the
applicant has addressed or proposes to address the issues, concerns, and
objections identified during the meeting.
   (L)   Application review and report (substantive review). After determining
that a development application is complete, the Director shall refer the
application to the appropriate review agencies and city staff, including the
site plan review committee (SPRC), who will be given a minimum of ten calendar
days to review the submitted materials, provide written review comments as
needed, and come together in a SPRC meeting with the applicant and their
engineer and/or other representatives, on the appropriate designated Thursday
(or another more appropriate day of the week selected by the committee) next
following the required ten calendar day minimum review period, where any issues
will be shared and addressed by the attendees. The applicant can address any
issues during the SPRC meeting, and if plan revisions are required, they must
be made and resubmitted to the Director when completed for a final review by
the SPRC without the need to reconvene as a committee, to ensure all required
issues have been addressed. Upon receiving final approval by the SPRC, the
Director or designee shall prepare a staff report. The staff report shall be
made available for inspection and copying by the applicant and the public prior
to the scheduled public hearing on the development application. The staff
report shall indicate whether, in the opinion of the staff, the development
application complies with all applicable standards of this and any other
applicable city codes. Conditions for approval may be recommended by staff or
members of the SPRC to eliminate any areas of noncompliance or mitigate any
adverse effects of the development proposal.
   (M)   Public notice requirements. Public notification required under this
chapter, shall be subject to the following requirements, unless as may be
otherwise specified in the city code or as set forth in applicable law. Any
changes to Arizona Law notice requirements shall have control over this
provision in the manner of providing notice.
   (N)   Notice requirements. Notice requirements specific to each type of
application are found in the correlating §§
152.088 through
152.096 below.
   (O)   Content of public notice. All required notifications as specified in
each correlating section for the different types of applications shall include;
the date, time, and place of the hearing; a general explanation of the matter
to be considered; a general description of the area affected; and indicate
where additional information on the matter may be obtained. If the matter to be
considered applies to territory in a high noise or accident potential zone as
defined in A.R.S. § 28-8461, the notice shall include a general statement that
the matter applies to property located in the high noise or accident potential
zone.
      (1)   Specific notice requirements. Notice requirements specified in each
correlating section for the different types of applications shall be provided
as follows:
      (2)   Published notice. A public hearing display ad (per A.R.S. § 9-
462.04) shall be placed by the city, at least once in a local newspaper of
general circulation within the city. The advertisement shall be published at
least 15 calendar days prior to the public hearing.
      (3)   Mailed notice. A notice of public hearing shall be sent by the
city, via U.S. first class mail, at least 15 calendar days prior to the public
hearing. The applicant shall be responsible for providing the city with mailing
labels containing the names and addresses of:
         (a)   The applicant or representative and owners of the subject
property;
         (b)   All real property owners, as shown on the latest Coconino County
assessment records, within 300 feet of the outer boundary of the subject
property. This notification area may be expanded if other policy adopted by the
City Council requires a larger notification area or the Director determines the
potential impact of the project extends beyond the required boundary;
         (c)   Residents, registered neighborhoods, and homeowners associations
that may be impacted as a result of the application, and other neighborhood
entities as determined by the Director;
         (d)   Interested parties which have requested that they be placed on a
contact list for this application;
         (e)   Interested parties that have been identified by the city;
         (f)   If the proposed project involves land that abuts other
municipalities or unincorporated areas of Coconino County or a combination
thereof, notice of the public hearing shall be sent to the planning agency of
the adjacent governmental unit.
         (g)   If the proposed project involves land that is located within the
territory in the vicinity of a military airport or ancillary military facility
as defined in A.R.S § 28-8461, notice of the public hearing shall be sent to
the military airport.
      (4)   Posted notice. A notice of public hearing shall be posted by city
on the lot, parcel, or tract of land that is the subject of the application. A
minimum of one posting shall be placed in a manner that is clearly visible from
the most heavily traveled public right-of-way adjoining the subject property
and shall be placed at least 15 calendar days prior to the public hearing. Such
notice shall be composed of weatherproof materials and shall be printed so that
the following are visible from a distance of 100 feet: the application type,
the application request (i.e. for a zoning map amendment display the present
and proposed zoning district classification) and the date, time, and location
of the hearing. The city shall update the sign as needed and maintain the sign
in good condition throughout the required posting period. The posting shall be
removed no later than ten days after the final public hearing and final action.
      (5)   Neighborhood meeting. A notice of neighborhood meeting shall be
provided as specified in division (K)(5) above.
      (6)   Multiple notices. When multiple applications are under review for
the same project, the responsible noticing body as specified in this section
may simultaneously issue notice for multiple applications.
      (7)   Validity of notice. The validity of the public hearing proceedings
shall not be affected by the failure of any person to receive notice or by the
presence of minor defects in the notice. Minor defects in notice shall be
limited to errors in a legal description or typographical or grammatical errors
that do not impede communication of the notices' primary intent to inform
affected parties of the project and the time, date, and place of a public
hearing or meeting.
   (P)   Public hearing. A public hearing, if required under this chapter,
shall be conducted in accordance with the requirements of this chapter, unless
otherwise specified in the city, or as set forth in A.R.S.
   (Q)   Written decision. The decision to approve or approve with conditions
or deny shall be communicated in writing to the applicant within 15 days from
the decision. All decisions shall include a statement of approval, approval
with conditions, or denial, whichever is appropriate.
   (R)   Limitation on reapplication. In the event that an application is
denied, an application that is substantially the same project or request will
not be considered for a period of one year from the date the initial
application was denied, except as follows:
      (1)   A substantial change in circumstances relevant to the issues and/or
facts considered during review of the application that might reasonably affect
the decision-making body's application of the relevant review standards to the
development proposed in the application;
      (2)   A new application is proposed to be submitted that is materially
different (e.g., proposes new uses, or a substantial decrease in proposed
densities and intensities) from the prior application; or
      (3)   The final decision on the application was based on a material
mistake of fact or the foregoing.
   (S)   Reconsideration or rehearing of decisions.
      (1)   Decisions of any appointed body under this chapter may be brought
up for reconsideration or rehearing only if:
         (a)   There was substantial procedural error in the original
proceeding;
         (b)   The Director or body acted without jurisdiction in the original
proceeding;
         (c)   The original decision was based upon fraud or misrepresentation;
         (d)   Reconsideration is appropriate to avoid delay or hardship that
may be caused by an appeal; or
         (e)   As requested by a member of the body whose vote was included in
the side that prevailed in the motion to be reconsidered.
      (2)   Any person seeking reconsideration or a rehearing must file a
request with the Director, together with materials supporting one or more of
the grounds stated in this section, within 15 days of the original decision, or
within the timeframe established under state law if applicable. The appointed
decision-making body, by majority vote, may decide to hold a rehearing if the
rehearing request meets requirements of divisions (I)(a) through (c) of this
section. A rehearing shall be conducted in the same manner as the original
proceedings before the Director or appointed body.
   (T)   Amendments to permits or other forms of approval. An approved
development or new land use shall be established only as specified by the
approved land use permit, and subject to any conditions of approval. An
applicant may request, in writing, to amend the approved permit, and shall
furnish appropriate supporting materials and an explanation of the reasons for
the request.
      (1)   Minor changes may be approved, modified, or denied by the Director.
Major changes shall be approved, modified or denied by the original review
authority.
      (2)   The Director shall determine whether a proposed change is major or
minor. The determination that the change is major depends on whether the
proposal may result in:
         (a)   Significant impacts to the surrounding neighborhood;
         (b)   Significant environmental impacts;
         (c)   A change to the approved use or significant change to the
original plan or intent thereof; or
         (d)   A change to the basis upon which the review authority made the
findings for project approval.
         (e)   Major change requests shall be processed in the same manner as
the original permit or entitlement.
   (U)   Appeals. This section sets forth the procedures for appeals except for
appeals filed pursuant to division (L) of this section. Any decision within the
authority of the decision-making body may be appealed, unless the zoning code
provides that the decision is final.
      (1)   Applicability. The appropriate decision-making body for each appeal
type is identified in §§
152.088 through
152.096. General appeals in which it is alleged there is an error in an order,
requirement or decision made by the Director in the enforcement of this zoning
ordinance shall be made to the Board of Adjustment pursuant to the provisions
of this division (K).
      (2)   Appeal process.
         (a)   Filing of appeal.
            1.   Appeals to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by persons
aggrieved or by any officer, department, board or bureau of the municipality
affected by a decision of the Director. An appeal shall be filed with the
Planning and Zoning Department on a form established by the Director. Within
five working days after the appeal is filed, the Director shall transmit all
records pertaining to the action appealed from to the Board. The appeal shall
set forth the decision or decisions being appealed and the grounds upon which
the appeal is based. The appeal shall be accompanied by any applicable fees.
            2.   A person aggrieved by a decision of the legislative body or
Board of Adjustment or a taxpayer who owns or leases the adjacent property or a
property within 300 feet from the boundary of the immediately adjacent
property, an officer or a department of the municipality affected by a decision
of the legislative body or Board, may file a complaint for special action in
the superior court to review the legislative body or Board of Adjustment
decision.
         (b)   Appeal period. All appeals shall be filed within 15 calendar
days of the decision, except for appeals from decisions of the Board of
Adjustment or City Council. An appeal from any decision regarding a City
Council or Board of Adjustment action (e.g., variances, text or map amendments)
shall be filed with the Superior Court within 30 days of the decision. If no
appeal is filed in writing within the relevant 15 or 30-day protest period, the
original decision shall be considered final.
         (c)   Proceedings stayed by appeal. The timely filing of an appeal,
except for appeals related to the Director's interpretation or enforcement of
this chapter, shall stay all proceedings in the matter appealed.
            1.   Appeals made to the Board of Adjustment in regard to the
Director's interpretation or enforcement of this chapter shall stay all
proceedings in the matter appealed from, unless the Director certifies to the
Board that, in the Director's opinion by the facts stated in the certificate, a
stay would cause imminent peril to life or property. Upon such certification,
proceedings shall not be stayed, except by restraining order granted by the
Board or by a court of record on application and notice to the Director.
            2.   Filing a complaint in Superior Court does not stay proceedings
on the decision sought to be reviewed, but the court may, on application, grant
a stay and on final hearing may affirm or reverse, in whole or in part, or
modify the decision reviewed.
         (d)   Public notice. Prior to consideration of any appeal for which
state law or the zoning code requires a public hearing, the city shall provide
public notification in compliance with §
152.089(E) or as required by state law, whichever requires the most notice.
         (e)   Standards. When reviewing any decision on appeal, the decision-
making body shall use the same standards for decision-making required for the
original decision.
         (f)   Hearing body action. Public hearings shall be conducted in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter, unless as may be otherwise
specified in this city code or as set forth in A.R.S. The decisionmaking body
for the appeal shall deny or grant the appeal or the decision-making body may
remand the matter to the original decision-making body for reconsideration, for
additional information or to cure a deficiency in the record or proceeding. The
decision-making body shall render its decision within 30 days of the date the
hearing is closed unless state law requires a shorter deadline.
   (V)   Appeals of dedications or exactions to hearing officer.
      (1)   Any requirement of a dedication or exaction as a condition of
granting approval for the use, improvement, or development of real property may
be appealed to a hearing officer appointed by the City Council. This division
shall not apply to legislatively imposed dedications or exactions in which no
discretion by the Director or administrative officer to determine the nature or
extent of the dedication or exaction was exercised. In the event of such an
appeal, the Director shall prepare a takings impact report. No fee shall be
charged for filing an appeal under this section and such appeal shall be
conducted as required by A.R.S. § 9-500.12.
      (2)   Appeal of decision of zoning hearing officer. A property owner
aggrieved by a decision of the zoning hearing officer to modify or affirm a
dedication or exaction requirement or to affirm a zoning regulation may file
within 30 days after the decision a complaint in Superior Court, pursuant to
A.R.S § 9- 500.12G.
   (W)   Effective date and exercising approval at risk.
      (1)   A final decision on an application for any discretionary approval
subject to appeal (e.g., a conditional use permit, variance, or site plan
approval) shall become effective after the expiration of the appeal period
following the date of action, unless an appeal is filed. No building permit or
business registration shall be issued until the day following the expiration of
the appeal period, unless, in accordance with division (M)(2) below, the
applicant signs a waiver explaining that they understand and accept the risk of
proceeding before the appeal period ends.
      (2)   An approved conditional use permit or variance or an interpretation
favorable to the applicant may be exercised at the applicant's sole risk, and a
building permit (if required) may be issued subsequent to approval by the
city's Chief Building Official. However, if an appeal of the decision is filed
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter that reverses in whole or in
part or modifies the decision and that causes any construction or use commenced
as a result of exercising the decision to be in conflict with the appellate
body's decision, then such building permit may be revoked in accordance with
the appellate body's decision and any such construction or use may constitute a
violation of this chapter and may be subject to removal or cessation by the
applicant, property owner, or his or her agent.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.087 APPROVAL OF RESIDENTIAL ZONING APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Administrative completeness review time frame. For each residential
zoning application, the Director shall designate a staff member to review the
application. The designated city staff member shall determine whether the
application is administratively complete within 30 days after receiving the
application. If the application is deemed administratively incomplete, the
staff member will provide the applicant with a written notice that includes a
comprehensive list of the specific deficiencies. Upon issuance of the written
notice, the administrative completeness review time frame and overall time
frame contained in this section are suspended until the staff member receives
the resubmitted application. The staff member shall have 15 days to review the
resubmitted application and determine whether every deficiency has been
resolved for administrative completeness.
   (B)   Approval or denial of residential zoning applications. After
determining that a residential zoning application is administratively complete,
the City Council shall approve or deny the application within 180 days. The
city may extend the time frame to approve or deny beyond 180 days as follows:
      (1)   Staff may grant a one-time extension of not more than 30 days for
extenuating circumstances; or
      (2)   Staff may grant extensions in 30 day increments at the request of
the applicant.
   (C)   Exceptions. This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Land that is designated as a district of historical significance
pursuant to A.R.S. § 9-462.01(A);
      (2)   An area that is designated as historic on the National Register of
Historic Places; or
      (3)   Land that is already zoned as a planned area development (PAD).
(Ord. 739-25, passed 5-28-2025)
§ 152.088 GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT.
   (A)   Purpose and applicability. The purpose of this section is to provide
procedures by which changes may be made to the text or maps of the general
plan.
   (B)   Initiation of amendments. An amendment to the general plan text or
maps may be initiated by:
      (1)   City Council on its own motion;
      (2)   The Planning and Zoning Commission;
      (3)   The Director; or
      (4)   The owner of the subject property or authorized agent.
   (C)   Timing of amendments.
      (1)   Major amendments. All applications for major amendments to the
general plan shall be heard by the City Council at a single hearing during the
calendar year in which they are filed. Applications for major amendments shall
be filed by the date provided on the application schedule in order to be
considered in that calendar year.
      (2)   Minor amendments. Applications for minor amendments may be filed
and heard at any time during the calendar year.
   (D)   General plan amendment application process.
GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT (See §
152.086 above for details)
Review and Approval Authority
               Director                                              RVW Note:
Review and     Board of Adjustment                                      RVW = Review
Approval       P & Z Commission                                      REC REC = Recommend
Authority      City Council                                          DEC DEC = Decide

Required Notifications and Citizen Review Process
               Published                                             Yes Note:
               Mailed                                                Yes Per A.R.S. § 9-461.06 - At least 60 days before a new general plan or major
               Posted                                                Yes amendment of a general plan is noticed pursuant to this section, the Planning &
                                                                         Zoning Department shall transmit the proposal to the Planning Commission and
                                                                         the City Council and shall submit a copy for review and further comment to:
                                                                         (a)   The Coconino County Planning Agency;
                                                                         (b)   Each municipality that is contiguous to the corporate limits of the city;
Required                                                                 (c)   The regional planning agency;
Notifications                                                            (d)   The state agency that is designated as the general planning agency for
& Citizen                                                                the State of Arizona;
Review Process Neighborhood Meeting                                  Yes (e)   Any ancillary military facility as defined under state law. if an element
                                                                         of or amendment to the general plan is applicable to territory in the vicinity
                                                                         of such a facility;
                                                                         (f)   The Attorney General, if an element of or major amendment to the general
                                                                         plan is applicable to property in the high noise or accident potential zone of
                                                                         any ancillary military facility, as defined under state law; and
                                                                         (g)   Any person that requests in writing to receive a review copy of the
                                                                         proposal.

General Plan Amendment Approval Process
Pre-
Application    Required - Yes/No                                     Yes Note: N/A
Conference
Application
Review and     Required - Yes/No                                     Yes Note: Director shall review amendment and create staff report for the P&Z
Staff Report                                                             Commission.
Required
Notification                                                             Note: Notification required a minimum of 15-days in advance and not more than
of two public  Required - Yes/No                                     Yes 30-days before the subject public hearing(s). Advertise both public hearings in
hearings                                                                 one public notice if possible, otherwise independently advertise each one
                                                                         separately.
                                                                         Note:
                                                                         The P&Z Commission shall conduct at least one public hearing for all general
P&Z Commission                                                           plan amendments where they may recommend the approval, approval with
review and     Required - Yes/No                                     Yes modifications or denial of the proposed amendment. If they fail to make a
recommendation                                                           recommendation to the City Council within 90 days after closing the public
                                                                         hearing, the P&Z Commission shall be deemed to have recommended denial and the
                                                                         application shall be scheduled for public hearing and action by the City
                                                                         Council.
                                                                         Note:
City Council                                                             The City Council shall review the application in a public hearing. The City
review and     Required - Yes/No                                     Yes Council may approve, approve with modifications or deny the application.
action                                                                   Approval of any major amendment to the general plan shall require an
                                                                         affirmative vote by at least 2/3 of the members of the Council. Approval shall
                                                                         be by resolution.
Written                                                                  Note:
notification   Required - Yes/No                                     Yes The decision to approve, approve with conditions, or deny shall be communicated
to applicant                                                             in writing to the applicant in compliance with §
                                                                         152.086(G).
                                                                         Note:
                                                                         In determining whether to approve, approve with conditions, or deny proposed
                                                                         general plan amendments, issues for consideration shall include but not be
                                                                         limited to:
                                                                         (1)   Whether the development pattern contained in the future land use plan
Issues for     Required - Yes/No                                     Yes provides appropriate optional sites for the use proposed in the amendment;
Consideration                                                            (2)   That the amendment constitutes an overall improvement to the general plan
                                                                         and is not solely for the good or benefit of a particular landowner or owners
                                                                         at a particular point in time;
                                                                         (3)   The degree to which the proposed amendment will impact the community as a
                                                                         whole or a portion of the community by:
                                                                         (a)   Significantly altering acceptable existing land use patterns;
                                                                         (b)   Requiring larger and more extensive improvements to roads, sewer, or
                                                                         water systems than are needed to support the prevailing land uses in which,
                                                                         therefore, may negatively impact development of other lands. The Commission
                                                                         and/or the City Council may also consider the degree to which the need for such
                                                                         improvements will be mitigated pursuant to binding commitments by the
                                                                         applicant, a public agency, or other sources when the impacts of the uses
                                                                         permitted pursuant to the general plan amendment will be felt;
                                                                         (c)   Adversely impacting existing uses due to increased traffic on existing
                                                                         systems; or
                                                                         (d)   Affecting the livability of the surrounding area or the health and safety
Issues for                                                               of present or future residents;
Consideration                                                            (4)   That the amendment is consistent with the overall intent of the general
Cont.                                                                    plan;
                                                                         (5)   Whether there was an error or oversight in the original general plan
                                                                         adoption that did not fully consider facts, projects or trends which could
                                                                         reasonably exist in the future;
                                                                         (6)   Whether events subsequent to the general plan adoption have superseded
                                                                         the original premises and findings made upon plan adoption;
                                                                         (7)   Whether events subsequent to the general plan adoption may have changed
                                                                         the character and/or condition of the area so as to make the application
                                                                         acceptable; and
                                                                         (8)   The extent to which the benefits of the plan amendment outweigh any of
                                                                         the impacts identified in divisions (E)(1) through (8) hereto.
Appeals Process
               Appeals to the action of City Council for General         Note:
Appeals        Plan Amendments shall be filed in accordance with §     An appeal from any final decision regarding a City Council action shall be
               152.086 above.                                            filed with the Superior Court within 30 days of the decision. If no appeal is
                                                                         filed in writing within 30 days, the decision shall be considered final.
 
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.089 AMENDMENTS TO ZONING CODE TEXT.
   (A)   Purpose and applicability. The purpose of this section is to provide
procedures consistent with applicable state requirements by which changes may
be made to the text of the zoning code.
   (B)   Initiation of amendments. An amendment to the text of this code may be
initiated by:
      (1)   City Council on its own motion;
      (2)   The Planning and Zoning Commission;
      (3)   The Director; or
      (4)   An application filed by an individual or group.
   (C)   Zoning Code Text amendment application process.
   AMENDMENTS TO ZONING CODE TEXT (See §
152.086 above for details)
Review and Approval Authority
               Director                                                   RVW Note:
Review and     Board of Adjustment                                           RVW = Review
Approval       P & Z Commission                                           REC REC = Recommend
Authority      City Council                                               DEC DEC = Decide

Required Notifications and Citizen Review Process
               Published                                                  Yes Note:
               Mailed                                                     Yes In place of a neighborhood meeting, a citizen review session shall be held at
               Posted                                                     Yes a work session of the P&Z Commission scheduled at least five days prior to the
                                                                              public hearing at the P&Z Commission for the consideration of any proposed
                                                                              text amendment. Landowners and other citizens potentially affected by the
                                                                              proposed text amendment shall have an opportunity to comment on the proposal.
                                                                              Notice of the citizen review session shall be given by the applicant at least
                                                                              ten days prior to the work session. The notice shall state the date, time, and
                                                                              place of the citizen review session and shall include a general explanation of
Required                                                                      the proposed text amendment. The method of notice to be used may vary
notifications                                                                 according to the type of text amendment proposed. Any method of notice
and citizen                                                                   approved by the Director for the proposed text amendment shall be considered
review process Neighborhood meeting - P&Z Commission work session         Yes sufficient. The method of notice given may include, but is not limited to, the
                                                                              following:
                                                                              1.   A notice of a citizen review session shall be sent, via U.S. first class
                                                                              mail, to landowners, citizens potentially affected by the proposed text
                                                                              amendments, and any person or group who has specifically requested notice
                                                                              regarding the application;
                                                                              2.   Publication in a local newspaper of general circulation distributed to
                                                                              residents living within the city;
                                                                              3.   Posting at a minimum of three public places within the city; or
                                                                              4.   Posting on the official city website.

Amendments to Zoning Code Text Approval Process
                                                                              Note:
                                                                              At minimum a zoning text amendment application shall include a written
Pre-                                                                          narrative identifying the section of the code to be amended, the proposed
Application    Required - Yes/No                                          Yes revised zoning text, how the proposed zoning text conforms with the general
Conference                                                                    plan and why the text amendment is necessary, plus any other information
                                                                              identified in the pre-application meeting and all required information stated
                                                                              elsewhere in this code for a zoning text amendment.
                                                                              Note:
Application                                                                   Upon receipt of a complete text amendment application, the Director shall
Review and     Required - Yes/No                                          Yes review the proposed text amendment for consistency with the goals and
Staff Report                                                                  objectives of the general plan, and prepare a staff report for transmittal to
Required                                                                      the Planning and Zoning Commission in accordance with §
                                                                              152.086 (D).
                                                                              Note:
                                                                              Amendments to the text of this chapter involving either a 10" or more increase
                                                                              or decrease in the number of square feet or units that may be developed, a 10%
                                                                              or more increase or reduction in the allowable building height, an increase or
                                                                              reduction in the number of stories of buildings, a 10% or more increase or
                                                                              decrease in setback or open space requirements, or a change in permitted uses,
                                                                              shall be subject to notice requirements as set forth below or if amended per
                                                                              A.R.S. § 9-462.04.
                                                                              The city shall provide, at least 15 calendar days prior to the public hearing,
                                                                              notice to real property owners pursuant to at least one of the following
                                                                              notification procedures:
Notification                                                                  1.   Notice shall be sent by first class mail to each real property owner, as
of two public  Required - Yes/No                                          Yes shown on the last assessment, whose real property is directly governed by the
hearings                                                                      changes.
                                                                              2.   If the municipality issues utility bills or other mass mailings that
                                                                              periodically include notices or other informational or advertising materials,
                                                                              the municipality shall include notice of such changes with such utility bills
                                                                              or other mailings.
                                                                              3.   The municipality shall publish such changes prior to the first hearing on
                                                                              such changes in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality. The
                                                                              changes shall be published in a "display ad" covering not less than of a full
                                                                              page.
                                                                              4.   If notice is provided pursuant to divisions 2. or 3. above, the
                                                                              municipality shall also send notice by first class mail to persons who
                                                                              register their names and addresses with the city as being interested in
                                                                              receiving such notice.
                                                                              Note:
                                                                              The P&Z Commission shall conduct at least one public hearing for all general
P&Z Commission                                                                plan amendments where they may recommend the approval, approval with
review and     Required - Yes/No                                          Yes modifications or denial of the proposed amendment. If they fail to make a
recommendation                                                                recommendation to the City Council within 90 days after closing the public
                                                                              hearing, the P&Z Commission shall be deemed to have recommended denial and the
                                                                              application shall be scheduled for public hearing and action by the City
                                                                              Council.
                                                                              Note:
                                                                              The City Council shall review the application in a public meeting; or a public
City Council                                                                  hearing if any member of the public provides written objection to the
review and     Required - Yes/No                                          Yes recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission; and approve, approve
action                                                                        with modifications, or deny the application. Approval shall be by ordinance.
                                                                              If a public hearing is held, public notification shall be provided in
                                                                              compliance with §
                                                                              152.086(C).
Written                                                                       Note:
notification   Required - Yes/No                                          Yes The decision to approve, approve with conditions, or deny shall be
to applicant                                                                  communicated in writing to the applicant in compliance with §
                                                                              152.086 (G).
                                                                              Note:
                                                                              In determining whether to approve, approve with conditions, or deny proposed
                                                                              text amendments, issues for consideration shall include but not be limited to:
Issues for                                                                    1.   The proposed amendment will promote the public health, safety, and
consideration  Required - Yes/No                                          Yes general welfare;
                                                                              2.   The proposed amendment is consistent with the general plan and the stated
                                                                              purposes of this development code; and
                                                                              3.   The proposed amendment is necessary or desirable because of changing
                                                                              conditions, new planning concepts, or other social or economic conditions.
Appeals Process
               Appeals to the action of City Council for amendments to        Note:
Appeals        the zoning code text shall be filed in accordance with §     An appeal from any final decision regarding a City Council action shall be
               152.086 above.                                                 filed with the Superior Court within 30 days of the decision. If no appeal is
                                                                              filed in writing within 30 days, the decision shall be considered final.
 
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.090 AMENDMENT TO OFFICIAL ZONING MAP (ZONE CHANGE).
   (A)   Purpose and applicability. The purpose of this section is to provide
procedures consistent with applicable state requirements by which changes may
be made to the official zoning map. This procedure shall apply to all proposals
to revise a zoning district classification or zoning district boundary line
shown on the official zoning map.
   (B)   Initiation of amendments. An amendment to the official zoning map may
be initiated by:
      (1)   City Council on its own motion;
      (2)   The Planning and Zoning Commission;
      (3)   The Director; or
      (4)   The owner of the subject property or authorized agent.
   (C)   Zone Change Zoning Map Amendment application process.
   ZONE CHANGE ZONING MAP AMENDMENT (See §
152.086 above for details)
Review and Approval Authority
               Director     RVW
Review and     Board of        Note:
Approval       Adjustment       RVW = Review
Authority      P & Z        REC REC = Recommend
               Commission       DEC = Decide
               City Council DEC
Required Notifications and Citizen Review Process
               Published    Yes Note:
               Mailed       Yes The applicant shall schedule and conduct a neighborhood meeting in accordance
Required       Posted       Yes with the procedures set forth in §
notifications  Neighborhood     152.086(C).
and citizen    meeting -        Publications shall be provided in accordance with §
review process P&Z          Yes 152.086(E), where notice of the neighborhood meeting and both public hearings
               Commission       shall be published in one public notice.
               work session
Zone Change Zoning Map Amendment Approval Process
                                Note:
                                A complete application for a zoning map amendment shall be submitted to the
                                Director as required by §
                                152.086(B). At a minimum a zoning map amendment application shall include:
                                1.   Proof of ownership;
                                2.   A notarized and executed Arizona Proposition #207 Waiver.
                                3.   A written narrative identifying how the proposed zoning conforms with the
Pre-                            general plan, fits in with the surrounding neighborhood, and why it is more
application    Required -   Yes appropriate for the property than the existing zoning;
conference     Yes/No           4.   A site plan showing the footprint of all existing and proposed buildings,
                                parking configuration, location of all utilities and casements, and other
                                details demonstrating conformance with all regulations and development
                                standards applicable to the proposed zoning district;
                                5.   A map showing adjoining zoning districts within 300 feet;
                                6.   A list of all property owners within 300 feet; and
                                7.   The applicant shall submit any other information identified in the pre-
                                application meeting and all required information stated elsewhere in this code
                                for an amendment to the zoning map.
Application                     Note:
review and     Required -       Upon receipt of a complete zoning map amendment application, the Director shall
staff report   Yes/No       Yes review the proposed zoning map amendment and prepare a staff report for
required                        transmittal to the PZ Commission in accordance with §
                                152.086(D).
Notification                    Note:
of two public  Required -   Yes Publications shall be provided in accordance with §
hearings       Yes/No           152.086(E), where notice of the neighborhood meeting and both public hearings
                                shall be published in one public notice.
                                Note:
                                The P&Z Commission shall review the application in a public hearing, and
                                recommend approval, approval with conditions, or denial of the subject
                                application.
                                Protest procedures. If the owners of 20% or more either of the area of the lots
P&Z Commission Required -       included in a proposed zoning change, or of those immediately adjacent in the
review and     Yes/No       Yes rear or any side thereof extending 150 feet therefrom, or of those directly
recommendation                  opposite thereto extending 150 feet from the street frontage of the opposite
                                lots, file a protest in writing against the proposed amendment, it shall not
                                become effective except by the favorable vote of four of the members of the
                                City Council. The protest shall be filed in writing with the City Clerk at
                                least five days prior to the public hearing or any continued public hearing of
                                the City Council to allow time to verify the signatures on the protest.
                                Note:
                                The City Council shall review the application in a public meeting; or a public
                                hearing if any member of the public provides written objection to the
City Council   Required -       recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission; and approve, approve with
review and     Yes/No       Yes modifications, or deny the application. Approval shall be by ordinance. If a
action                          public hearing is held, public notification shall be provided in compliance
                                with §
                                152.086(E).
                                See Protest Procedures in P&Z Commission Review and Recommendation Notes above.
Written                         Note:
notification   Required -   Yes The decision to approve, approve with conditions, or deny shall be communicated
to applicant   Yes/No           in writing to the applicant in compliance with §
                                152.086 (G).
 
 
   ZONE CHANGE ZONING MAP AMENDMENT Cont.
Zone Change Zoning Map Amendment Approval Process Cont.
                                                                       Note:
                                                                       In determining whether to approve, approve with conditions, or deny proposed
                                                                       official zoning map amendments, issues for consideration shall include but not
                                                                       be limited to:
                                                                       1.   Consistency (or lack thereof) with the general plan, and other adopted
                                                                       plans;
                                                                       2.   Compatibility with the present zoning and conforming uses of nearby
                                                                       property and with the character of the neighborhood;
                                                                       3.   Suitability of the subject property for uses permitted by the proposed
                                                                       zoning district;
                                                                       4.   Suitability of the subject property for uses permitted by the existing
                                                                       district; and
                                                                       5.   Availability of sewer and water facilities.
                                                                       Revocation or modification. If City Council approves a Zoning Map amendment
Issues for                                                             with a condition that is required to be completed within a specific time
consideration Required - Yes/No                                    Yes period and the condition is not satisfied within that time period, the
                                                                       following actions may be taken:
                                                                       1.   The City Council or P&Z Commission may initiate an amendment to remove
                                                                       the condition or extend the time period and direct the Director to prepare an
                                                                       ordinance to do the same pursuant to the procedures set forth in §
                                                                       152.090(C)(5) through (8);
                                                                       2.   The City Council or P&Z Commission may initiate a rescission of the
                                                                       zoning map amendment to revert the zoning to its prior zoning classification
                                                                       for failure to comply with the conditions of the rezoning ordinance, pursuant
                                                                       to A.R.S. § 9-462.01(e) and direct the Director to notify the property owner
                                                                       by certified mail and prepare an ordinance to revert the zoning pursuant to
                                                                       the procedures set forth in §
                                                                       152.090(C)(5) through (8); or
                                                                       3.   The property owner in writing may apply to amend or remove the condition
                                                                       pursuant to the procedures set forth in §
                                                                       152.090(C)(5) through (8).
Appeals Process
              Appeals to the action of City Council for zoning map     Note:
Appeals       amendments shall be filed in accordance with §         An appeal from any final decision regarding a City Council action shall be
              152.086 above.                                           filed with the Superior Court within 30 days of the decision. If no appeal is
                                                                       filed in writing within 30 days, the decision shall be considered final.
 
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.091 CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT (CUP).
   (A)   Purpose and applicability. The purpose of this section is to permit
conditional uses in appropriate zoning districts. This may only occur in
specific locations and only when designed and developed in a manner which
assures maximum compatibility with adjoining uses. This section establishes
principles and procedures essential for proper guidance and control of these
uses. Conditional may require the imposition of additional conditions to
accomplish the following:
      (1)   To protect the public health, safety, convenience, and general
welfare;
      (2)   To assure that the purposes of the zoning ordinance shall be
maintained with respect to the particular conditional use on the particular
requested site;
      (3)   To consider the location, use, building, traffic characteristics,
and environmental impact of the proposed use; and
      (4)   To consider existing and potential uses with the general area in
which the requested conditional use is proposed.
   (B)   Types of conditional uses. The Council may grant a conditional use
permit (CUP) in accordance with the procedures stated in this section for the
following uses:
      (1)   Only those uses that are enumerated as conditional uses in a zoning
district, as set forth in §§
152.025 through
152.033; or
      (2)   Non-specified uses as determined by the Director, per §§
152.026(C)(7),
152.027(C)(7), or
152.028(C)(7), upon a finding that said use is materially similar to other
conditional uses within the same zoning district, in accordance with the
procedures and standards set forth in this section.
   (C)   Conditional use permit (CUP) application process.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS (CUP)  (See §
152.086 above for details)
Review and Approval Authority
               Director                                    RVW    Note:
Review and     Board of Adjustment                               RVW = Review
Approval       P & Z Commission                            REC    REC = Recommend
Authority      City Council                                DEC    DEC = Decide

Required Notifications and Citizen Review Process
               Published                                   Yes    Note:
               Mailed                                      Yes    Publications shall be provided in accordance with §
               Posted                                      Yes    152.086(E), where notice of the neighborhood meeting, if required, and both
                                                                  public hearings shall be published in one public notice.
Required                                                          The applicant shall not be required to conduct a neighborhood meeting, however
notifications                                                     for certain conditional use requests staff shall have the option to require the
and citizen                                                Option applicant to schedule and conduct a neighborhood meeting to avoid any
review process Neighborhood meeting                        al     unnecessary delays during the public hearing process. If the applicant chooses
                                                                  to hold or is required to hold a neighborhood meeting it shall be conducted in
                                                                  accordance with the procedures set forth in §
                                                                  152.086(C).

Conditional Use Permit (CUP) Approval Process
                                                                  A complete application for a CUP shall be submitted to the Director as required
                                                                  by §
                                                                  152.086(B). In addition, no conditional use shall be established until a site
                                                                  plan has been approved in accordance with §
                                                                  152.095. Applications for a conditional use and site plan review shall be
                                                                  submitted and reviewed concurrently. At a minimum, a CUP application shall
                                                                  include:
Pre-                                                              1.   Proof of ownership;
application    Required - Yes/No                           Yes    2.   A written narrative that responds to §
conference                                                        152.091(D);
                                                                  3.   A site plan consistent with §
                                                                  152.095(C);
                                                                  4.   A map showing adjoining zoning districts within 300 feet;
                                                                  5.   A list of all property owners within 300 feet; and
                                                                  6.   The applicant shall submit any other information identified in the pre-
                                                                  application meeting and all required information stated elsewhere in this code
                                                                  for a CUP.
Application                                                       Note:
review and                                                        Upon receipt of a complete CUP application, the Director shall review the
staff report   Required - Yes/No                           Yes    proposed CUP application and prepare a staff report for transmittal to the P&Z
required                                                          Commission in accordance with §
                                                                  152.086(D).
Notification                                                      Note:
of two public  Required - Yes/No                           Yes    Publications shall be provided in accordance with §
hearings                                                          152.086(E), where notice of the neighborhood meeting, if required, and both
                                                                  public hearings shall be published in one public notice.
                                                                  Note:
P&Z Commission                                                    The P&Z Commission shall review the application in a public hearing, and
review and     Required - Yes/No                           Yes    recommend approval, approval with conditions, or denial of the application,
recommendation                                                    subject to the review conditions set forth in §
                                                                  152.091 (C) and (D).
                                                                  Note:
                                                                  The City Council shall review the application in a public meeting; or a public
City Council                                                      hearing if any member of the public provides written objection to the
review and     Required - Yes/No                           Yes    recommendation of the P&Z Commission; and approve, approve with modifications,
action                                                            or deny the application. If a public hearing is held, public notification shall
                                                                  be provided in compliance with §
                                                                  152.086(C). See issues for consideration below.
                                                                  Note:
Written                                                           An approved conditional use shall not be established until a CUP has been
notification   Required - Yes/No                           Yes    issued by the Planning and Zoning Department. The permit shall cite the plans
to applicant                                                      and documents on which the Council based its approval, as well as the specific
                                                                  modifications and/or conditions of the approval, if any.
                                                                  Note:
                                                                  Conditions of approval. In permitting a conditional use or the alteration of an
                                                                  existing conditional use, the Council can impose, in addition to those
                                                                  standards and requirements expressly specified by this chapter additional
                                                                  conditions which it finds necessary to avoid detrimental environmental impact
                                                                  and to otherwise protect the best interest of the surrounding area or the
                                                                  community as a whole. These conditions can include, but are not limited to the
                                                                  following:
                                                                  1.   Limiting the manner in which the use is conducted, including restricting
                                                                  the time a certain activity can take place and restraints to minimize such
                                                                  environmental effects as noise, vibration, air pollution, glare and odor;
                                                                  2.   Establishing special yard, open space, lot area or dimensional
                                                                  requirements;
                                                                  3.   Limiting the height, size or location of a building or other structure or
                                                                  use;
                                                                  4.   Designating the size, number, location and nature of vehicle access
                                                                  points. For example, but not limited to: secondary driveway access on comer
                                                                  lots in residential subdivisions;
                                                                  5.   Designating the size, location, screening, drainage, surfacing or other
                                                                  improvements of a parking area or loading area;
                                                                  6.   Limiting or otherwise designating the number, size, location, height and
                                                                  lighting of signs;
                                                                  7.   Limiting the intensity of outdoor lighting and requiring light shielding;
Issues for     Required - Yes/No                           Yes    8.   Requiring screening, landscaping or another facility to protect adjacent
consideration                                                     or nearby property and designate standards for its installation and
                                                                  maintenance;
                                                                  9.   Designating the size, height, location of screening and materials of
                                                                  fencing, including anti-graffiti type materials; and
                                                                  10.   Limiting hours of operation, revocation dates and time limits for
                                                                  commencing construction or use authorization.
                                                                  Required findings. The Council may approve a CUP as submitted or modified only
                                                                  upon making the following findings:
                                                                  1.   The proposed use will not be detrimental to the health, safety, or general
                                                                  welfare of persons living or working in the vicinity, to adjacent property, to
                                                                  the neighborhood, or to the public in general;
                                                                  2.   The proposed use conforms with the purposes, intent, and policies of the
                                                                  general plan and its policies and any applicable area, neighborhood, or other
                                                                  plan officially adopted by the City Council;
                                                                  3.   The proposed use conforms with the conditions, requirements, or standards
                                                                  prescribed by the zoning code and any other applicable local, state, or federal
                                                                  requirements;
                                                                  4.   The proposed conditional use shall conform to the character of the
                                                                  neighborhood, within the same zoning district, in which it is located. In
                                                                  making such a determination, consideration shall be given to the location, type
                                                                  and height of the buildings or structures and the type and extent of
                                                                  landscaping and screening on the site;
                                                                  5.   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage, fire protection, and other
                                                                  necessary facilities shall be provided;
                                                                  6.   Adequate measures shall be taken to provide ingress and egress so designed
                                                                  as to minimize traffic hazards and to minimize traffic congestion on the public
                                                                  roads;
                                                                  7.   The proposed use shall not be noxious or offensive by reason of vibration,
                                                                  noise, odor, dust, smoke, or gas;
                                                                  8.   The proposed use shall not be injurious to the use and enjoyment of the
                                                                  property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already permitted, nor
                                                                  substantially diminishes or impair the property values within the neighborhood;
                                                                  and
                                                                  9.   The establishment of the proposed use shall not impede the orderly
                                                                  development and improvement of surrounding property for uses permitted within
                                                                  the zoning district.
                                                                  Expiration and time extensions.
                                                                  Expiration. In any case where a CUP has not been used within six months after
                                                                  the granting, it shall become null and void. CUPs shall run with the land
                                                                  unless the Council elects to specify a period of abandonment after which the
                                                                  CUP shall be voided.
                                                                  Time extensions. The Council shall hold a public hearing to consider the
                                                                  granting of a time extension as follows:
                                                                  1.   Upon request by the applicant.
                                                                  2.   When the request is filed in writing with the Planning & Zoning Department
                                                                  not less than 30 days prior to the expiration date of the original CUP
Issues for                                                        approval.
consideration                                                   3.   When accompanied by a time CUP application fee in accordance with the fee
Cont.                                                             schedule of the city.
                                                                  4.   Upon determination by the Council that there have been no changes in the
                                                                  circumstances or in the vicinity of the property or use which would render the
                                                                  previously approved CUP inappropriate.
                                                                  Revocation or modification.
                                                                  Revocation. The Director shall notify the applicant by mail if in violation of
                                                                  the CUP. If no attempt to change the violation is made within ten working days
                                                                  of notification, the Council shall be authorized to hold a public hearing to
                                                                  consider the revocation or modification of a CUP previously granted in
                                                                  accordance with the provisions of the zoning ordinance. A written notice of the
                                                                  date, time, place and purpose of the hearing shall be served on the owner of
                                                                  the property for which the CUP was granted by registered mail, return receipt
                                                                  requested, not less than 30 days prior to the date of such hearing.
                                                                  Findings. A CUP may be revoked or modified if, from the facts presented at the
                                                                  public hearing or by investigation, the City Council makes an affirmative
                                                                  determination on any one of the following findings:
                                                                  1.   That the CUP was obtained by fraud.
                                                                  2.   That the CUP granted is being exercised contrary to the conditions of
                                                                  approval of such CUP or in violation of any applicable law, license, ordinance,
                                                                  permit or regulation.
                                                                  3.   That the use for which the CUP was granted is being or has been exercised
                                                                  as to be detrimental to the public health or safety.
                                                                  4.   The use ceases for a period of 90 consecutive days, or because of failure
                                                                  to comply with the conditions of the use permit.
Appeals Process
               Appeals to the action of City Council for a        Note:
Appeals        CUP shall be filed in accordance with §          An appeal from any final decision regarding a City Council action shall be
               152.086(K).                                        filed with the Superior Court within 30 days of the decision. If no appeal is
                                                                  filed in writing within 30 days, the decision shall be considered final.
 
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.092 TEMPORARY USE PERMIT (TUP).
   (A)   Purpose and applicability. The purpose of this section is to allow for
the establishment of interim or temporary uses when such activities are
desirable for the community or are temporarily required in the process of
establishing a permitted use. Temporary uses allowed under this section shall
be consistent with the health, safety and general welfare of persons residing
and working in the community, shall be conducted so as not to cause any
detrimental effects on surrounding properties and the community, and shall not
violate any other ordinance or regulation of the city.
   (B)   Types of temporary uses. The Director may grant a (TUP) in accordance
with the standards and/or conditions specified in §
152.047.
   (C)   Temporary use permit (TUP) application process.
   TEMPORARY USE PERMIT (TUP) (See §
152.086 above for details)
Review and Approval Authority
               Director     RVW
Review and     Board of        Note:
Approval       Adjustment       RVW = Review
Authority      P & Z        REC REC = Recommend
               Commission       DEC = Decide
               City Council DEC
Required Notifications and Citizen Review Process
Required       Published     
notifications  Mailed          Note:
and citizen    Posted          No notifications or citizen review is required.
review process Neighborhood  
               meeting
Temporary Use Permit (TUP) Approval Process
                                Note:
                                A complete application for a TUP shall be submitted to the Director as
                                required by §
                                152.086(B). At a minimum, the application shall include:
                                1.   Standard Application Form;
                                2.   Application Fee as approved by City Council;
                                3.   State Tax License Number;
                                4.   Business Registration from the City Clerk's Office;
                                5.   Proof of Liability Insurance for $1,000.000 for city properties;
                                6.   Notarized property owner authorization (if applicable);
                                7.   Aerial map of the site;
Pre-           Required -       8.   Written Scope of Work describing temporary use;
application    Yes/No       No  9.   A site plan showing the location and footprint of proposed uses and
conference                      structures, parking configuration and other details necessary to demonstrate
                                that the proposed use and site conforms with all other requirements of the
                                zoning district and all other city codes; and
                                10.   The application shall contain sufficient information to demonstrate
                                compliance with temporary use conditions in accordance with §
                                152.047(C) and (D) and all required information stated elsewhere in this code
                                or any other city code.
                                11.   All applications for TUPs shall be filed at least four weeks prior to
                                the date the temporary use will commence, or at least six weeks prior to the
                                date the temporary use will commence if public safety support is requested
                                from the city. The Director may waive this filing deadline requirement in an
                                individual case for good cause shown.
               Required -       Note:
Application    Yes/No           Upon receipt of a complete TUP application, the Director shall review the
review and     No staff     No  proposed TUP application and distribute the application to other reviewers as
staff report   report           he or she deems necessary. Based on the results of those reviews, the Director
required       required         shall lake final action on the application and approve, approve with
                                conditions, or deny the application based on the applicable approval criteria.
Notification   Required -       Note:
of two public  Yes/No       No  No notifications, publications or notices are required.
hearings
P&Z Commission Required -       Note:
review and     Yes/No       No  Not required.
recommendation                   
City Council   Required -       Note:
review and     Yes/No       No  Not required.
action
               Required -
Written        Yes/No           Note:
notification   Written      No  The decision to approve, approve with conditions, or deny shall be
to applicant   notification     communicated to the applicant upon approval of the TUP.
               not required
                                Note:
                                Required findings. The Director may approve a TUP as submitted or modified
                                only upon making the following findings:
                                1.   The establishment, maintenance, or operation of the use will not,
                                under the circumstances of the particular case, be detrimental to the health,
Issues for     Required -       safety, or general welfare of persons residing or working in the neighborhood
consideration  Yes/No       Yes of the proposed use.
                                2.   The use, as described and conditionally approved, will not be detrimental
                                or injurious to property and improvements in the neighborhood or to the
                                general welfare of the city.
                                3.   Approved measures for the removal of the use and site restoration
                                have been required to ensure that no changes to the site would limit the range
                                of possible future land uses otherwise allowed by this code.
Appeals Process
                                Note:
Appeals        Refer to §     Decisions of the Director may be appealed to the Board of Adjustment pursuant
               152.086(K).      to the procedures set forth in §
                                152.086(K).
 
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.093 VARIANCE.
   (A)   Purpose and applicability. Because of special circumstances applicable
to a property, including its size, shape, topography, location or surroundings,
there may be instances in which the strict application of the zoning ordinance
will deprive the property of privileges enjoyed by other properties in the same
zoning district. To ensure a fair application of this chapter, a variance from
the standards imposed may be granted by the Board of Adjustment. In granting a
variance:
      (1)   Consideration may be given with respect to dimensional and
performance standards including, but not limited to site dimensions, yards,
height of structures, distances between structures, open space requirements,
signage dimensions, fences, and walls.
      (2)   Nothing shall be construed to empower the Board to change the terms
of this chapter, to authorize uses which violate any other city ordinance, to
affect changes in the zoning map, to add to the uses permitted or adjust the
permitted density in any zoning district, or to grant a conditional use permit.
      (3)   All sections of this code are considered binding unless relief is
granted through variance process.
      (4)   All shall be personal to the appellant and shall be transferable
and run with the land only after completion and final inspection of any
authorized structure.
2023 S-18
   (B)   Variance application process.
   VARIANCE (See §
152.086 above for details)
Review and Approval Authority
               Director                                         RVW    Note:
Review and     Board of Adjustment                              DEC    RVW = Review
Approval       P & Z Commission                                       REC = Recommend
Authority      City Council                                           DEC = Decide

Required Notifications and Citizen Review Process
               Published                                        Yes    Note:
               Mailed                                           Yes    Neighborhood Meeting is optional unless required by the Director.
Required       Posted                                           Yes    The Public Hearing for the Board of Adjustment shall be published a minimum of
notifications                                                          15-days prior to the Public Hearing. Notice of the Public Hearing shall be
and citizen                                                     Option posted and mailed by the applicant to property owners within 300 feet of the
review process Neighborhood meeting                             al     boundaries of the requested variance in accordance with §
                                                                       152.086(C)(5).

Variance Approval Process
                                                                       Note:
                                                                       A complete application for a variance shall be submitted to the Director as
                                                                       required by §
                                                                       152.086(B). At a minimum a variance application shall include:
                                                                       1.   Proof of ownership;
                                                                       2.   A written statement indicating the variance will meet the requirements
Pre-                                                                   listed in §
application    Required - Yes/No                                Yes    152.093(C);
conference                                                             3.   A site plan showing the footprint and proposed use of all buildings
                                                                       proposed, parking configuration and other details necessary to demonstrate that
                                                                       the proposed use and site conforms with all other requirements of the zoning
                                                                       district and variance requirements; and
                                                                       4.   The applicant shall submit any other information identified in the pre-
                                                                       application meeting and all required information stated elsewhere in this code
                                                                       for a variance.
Application                                                            Note:
review and                                                             Upon receipt of a complete variance application, the Director shall review the
staff report   Required - Yes/No                                Yes    proposed variance for compliance with criteria enumerated in §
required                                                               152.093(C). The Director shall then prepare a staff report for transmittal to
                                                                       the Board of Adjustment.
                                                                       Note:
                                                                       Citizen review process.
                                                                       (a) The applicant shall not be required to conduct a neighborhood meeting,
                                                                       however for certain variance requests staff shall have the option to require
                                                                       the applicant to schedule and conduct a neighborhood meeting to avoid any
Notification                                                           unnecessary delays during the public hearing process.
of Board of                                                            (b) If the applicant chooses to hold or is required to hold a neighborhood
Adjustment     Required - Yes/No                                Yes    meeting it shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures set forth in §
public hearing                                                         152.086(C).
                                                                       A public hearing of the Board of Adjustments shall be published a minimum of
                                                                       15-days in advance of the B of A Public Hearing.
                                                                       Notice of the Public Hearing shall be posted and mailed by the applicant to
                                                                       property owners within 300 feet of the boundaries of the requested variance in
                                                                       accordance with §
                                                                       152.086(C)(5).
P&Z Commission                                                         Note:
review and     Required - Yes/No                                No     No P&Z Commission review required.
recommendation
City Council                                                           Note:
review and     Required - Yes/No                                No     No City Council review required.
action
                                                                       Note:
                                                                       The Board of Adjustment shall review the application in a public hearing and
                                                                       may approve, approve with modifications and/or conditions, or deny the
                                                                       variance.
Board of                                                               Conditions of approval. In approving a variance, the Board of Adjustment may
Adjustment                                                             impose reasonable conditions necessary to:
review and     Required - Yes/No                                Yes    1.   Achieve the general purposes of the zoning code or the specific purposes
action                                                                 of the zoning district in which the site is located, or to make it consistent
                                                                       with the general plan;
                                                                       2.   Protect the public health, safety, and general welfare; or
                                                                       3.   Insure operation and maintenance of the use in a manner
                                                                       compatible with existing and potential uses on adjoining properties or in the
                                                                       surrounding area.
Written                                                                Note:
notification   Required - Yes/No                                Yes    The decision to approve or approve with conditions or deny shall be
to applicant                                                           communicated in writing to the applicant in compliance with §
                                                                       152.086(G).
                                                                       Note:
                                                                       Required findings. The Board of Adjustment shall only approve a variance after
                                                                       finding that all of the following conditions are met. Financial hardship,
                                                                       personal preference of the owner, or the fact that property may be utilized
                                                                       more profitably if the requested variance is granted shall not be considered
                                                                       grounds for a variance.
                                                                       (1)   Special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar to the
                                                                       land, structure, or building involved, and which are not applicable to other
                                                                       lands, structures, or buildings in the same zoning district.
                                                                       (2)   A literal interpretation of this chapter would deprive the appellant of
Issues for     Required - Yes/No                                Yes    rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the same zoning district.
consideration                                                          (3)   The alleged hardship caused by literal interpretation of the provisions
                                                                       of this chapter includes more than personal inconvenience and financial
                                                                       hardship and is not the result of actions by the appellant.
                                                                       (4)   Granting the variance will not confer upon the appellant any special
                                                                       privilege that is denied by this chapter to other lands, structures, or
                                                                       buildings in the same zoning district.
                                                                       (5)   Granting the variance will not interfere with or substantially injure the
                                                                       appropriate use of adjacent conforming properties in the same zoning district.
                                                                       (6)   The reasons set forth in the appeal justify the granting of the variance,
                                                                       and that the variance is the minimum variance that will make possible the
                                                                       reasonable use of the land, building or structure.
                                                                       (7)   Granting the variance will be in harmony with the general purpose and
                                                                       intent of this chapter and will not be injurious to the neighborhood, or
                                                                       otherwise detrimental to the public welfare.
                                                                       (8)   No variance shall be granted from any written conditions attached by
                                                                       another decision-maker to the approval of a rezoning, conditional use permit,
                                                                       subdivision plat, or site plan.
                                                                       (9)   No variance shall be granted if the conditions or circumstances affecting
                                                                       the applicant's property are of so general or recurrent a nature as to make
                                                                       reasonably practicable the formulation of a general regulation for such
                                                                       conditions or situations.
                                                                       (10)   No non-conforming use or violations of this chapter with respect to
                                                                       neighboring lands, structures or buildings, in the same zoning district, and no
                                                                       permitted use of lands, structures or buildings in other zoning districts,
                                                                       shall be considered grounds for granting a variance.
                                                                       (11) Every decision of the Board shall be based upon findings of fact, and
                                                                       every finding of fact shall be supported in the record of its proceedings. The
                                                                       conditions required by this chapter to exist on any matter upon which the Board
                                                                       is authorized to pass under this chapter shall be construed as limitations on
                                                                       the power of the Board to act. A mere finding or recitation of the enumerated
                                                                       conditions, unaccompanied by findings of specific fact, shall not be deemed
                                                                       findings of fact, and shall not be deemed in compliance with this chapter.
                                                                       Expiration and time extensions.
                                                                       Expiration. In any case where a variance has not been used within one year
Issues for                                                             after the granting, it shall become null and void.
consideration                                                        Time extensions. The Board of Adjustment shall hold a public hearing to
Cont.                                                                  consider the granting of a time extension of no more than one additional year
                                                                       as follows:
                                                                       1.   Upon request by the applicant;
                                                                       2.   When the request is filed in writing with the Planning & Zoning Department
                                                                       not less than 30 days prior to the expiration date of the original variance
                                                                       approval;
                                                                       3.   When accompanied by a time extension fee in accordance with the fee
                                                                       schedule of the city; or
                                                                       4.   Upon determination by the Board that there have been no changes in the
                                                                       circumstances or in the vicinity of the property or use which would render the
                                                                       previously approved variance inappropriate.
                                                                       Revocation. The Board of Adjustment shall be authorized to hold a public
                                                                       hearing to consider the revocation of a variance previously granted in
                                                                       accordance with the provisions of the zoning ordinance. A written notice of the
                                                                       date, time, place and purpose of the hearing shall be served on the owner of
                                                                       the property for which the variance was granted by registered mail, return
                                                                       receipt requested, not less than 30 days prior to the date of such hearing.
                                                                       Findings. A variance may be revoked if, from the facts presented at the public
                                                                       hearing or by investigation, the Board makes an affirmative determination on
                                                                       any one of the following findings:
                                                                       1.   That the variance was obtained by fraud; or
                                                                       2.   That the variance granted is being exercised contrary to the conditions of
                                                                       approval of such variance or in violation of any applicable law, license,
                                                                       ordinance, permit or regulation.
Appeals Process
               Appeals to the action of the Board of Adjustment        Note:
Appeals        shall be filed in accordance with §                   An appeal from any final decision regarding a Board of Appeals action shall be
               152.086 above.                                          filed with Superior Court within 30 days of the decision. If no appeal is filed
                                                                       in writing within 30 days, the decision shall be considered final.
 
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.094 RESERVED.
§ 152.095 SITE PLAN AND BUILDING PERMIT REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   Purpose and applicability. This section provides procedures and
standards for the comprehensive review of proposed development projects to:
promote the safe, functional and aesthetic development of property, ensure
compliance with the development and design standards of this chapter, the
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) standards, and all other appropriate
fire, life-safety, public works and utilities, and site development codes; and
encourage quality development reflective of the goals, policies, and objectives
of the general plan. Site plan review shall be required for:
      (1)   All new construction, including major subdivisions, and exterior
remodeling and/or expansion of commercial uses, including multi-family
developments, with the following exceptions:
         (a)   Single-family dwellings (Reviewed only by the Chief Building
Official, Director or designee).
         (b)   Interior remodeling only of commercial and multi-family
structures.
         (c)   Exterior modifications or additions to commercial and multi-
family structures that doesn't increase the gross floor area by more than 500
square feet or 10%, whichever is less.
         (d)   Minor subdivision land splits and combinations.
      (2)   An application for approval of a zoning map amendment (zone
change), including a planned area development (PAD), or a conditional use
permit (CUP), where the site plan review shall occur concurrently with the
review of the zone change, PAD or CUP request.
   (B)   Site Plan Review Committee (SPRC) Review. See §
152.095(A)(1) and (2) above to determine which applications require review by
the site plan review committee, and which applications are exempt. For the
purposes of these regulations, a commercial development is defined as any
residential development larger than a single-family detached residence on a
single lot, and any commercial or industrial building or development.
Commercial developments require the review and approval by the Site Plan Review
Committee before any building permits can be submitted for review. The
following requirements shall apply to all commercial developments:
      (1)   Commercial site plans shall be submitted as a complete package to
city staff. Partial/incomplete submittals and/or partial submittals by
different entities will not be accepted and they will be returned to the
applicant at their expense. The city will not be responsible for coordinating
partial submittals at different times and/or from different entities. Complete
site plan submittals shall be submitted in the following format:
         (a)   A completed City of Page application for construction plan
submittal;
         (b)   One electronic version of the complete site plan in PDF format
for distribution purposes;
         (c)   Two bound sets of the complete site plan on 24" X 36" paper with
a white background; and
         (d)   Supporting documentation, studies or reports shall be submitted
the same as (A)(2) and (A)(3) above.
      The city will not make paper copies for the applicant to complete the
applicant's application package, including construction plans, supporting
documentation, studies or reports.
         (e)   If the development requires fire sprinklers or fire protection
due to code requirements, a third complete set of paper plans shall be
submitted for the Fire Marshall's review and approval.
      (2)   For a site plan to be considered complete, it must include and show
the following, at a minimum:
         (a)   All buildings, structures and above and below ground utilities
that will be built on the site;
         (b)   All public/private rights-of-way, easements, and all areas to be
designated as open space;
         (c)   All sidewalks, paths, and vehicular, pedestrian, equestrian and/
or bicycle travel ways;
         (d)   All areas to be designated for parking, driveways and loading/
unloading zones or areas;
         (e)   All ADA required van/vehicular parking spaces, sidewalks, ramps,
and crosswalks;
         (f)   All site required landscaping, screen-fencing and all areas
designated for landscaping;
         (g)   All site drainage, retention or detention holding ponds, with
appropriate calculations;
         (h)   All site signage, whether for directional or advertisement
purposes, with specifications;
         (i)   All property boundaries and measurements for the above from the
property boundaries;
         (j)   All topographic and/or geologic issues that will affect the
development of the site; and
         (k)   Anything else added or removed from the site in order for the
development to be completed.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the complete site plan package, city staff will
distribute the PDF version to all members of the Site Plan Review Committee
(SPRC) and schedule a formal SPRC meeting to be held within 14-days of
determining application is complete, on that closest Thursday or another day
deemed more appropriate by the SPRC. The applicant and/or their civil engineer
is required to attend said meeting either in person or via videoconference, to
answer any questions posed by members at the meeting.
      (4)   The Site Plan Review Committee and their responsibilities with site
plan reviews include:
         (a)   The Site Plan Review Committee as a whole shall determine
compliance with provisions of this chapter, the Maricopa Association of
Governments (MAG SPEC) design standards, the Americans with Disabilities Act
(ADA) specifications, and all appropriate International Building Codes, most
current adopted edition(s).
         (b)   The Public Works Director for review of street plans and
compliance with city street standards, storm drainage, floodplain regulations,
and determination of street and drainage improvement requirements.
         (c)   Page Utility Enterprises (PUE) for review of water and sewage
disposal.
         (d)   The Western Area Power Authority (WAPA) for any work involving
their easements.
         (e)   Where the land abuts a state highway, the Arizona Department of
Transportation (ADOT) for review and approvals regarding rights-of-way and
intersection design.
         (f)   The Director shall review for compliance with public objectives,
giving special attention to design principles and standards set forth in this
and other city codes, to utility methods and systems, to existing and proposed
zoning and land use of the tract and environs, and to land required for
schools, parks, open spaces and public facilities.
         (g)   Page Utility Enterprises (PUE) for review of the electric
utilities.
         (h)   Fire, Police and Ambulance Departments, as appropriate.
      (5)   Once the site plan has received approval from the SPRC, and the
Fire Marshall when required, and any other required outside agencies, the
applicant shall then work with the city's Chief Building Official (CBO) to pull
any building permits required for construction of the site.
      (6)   Building permits for signage, landscaping, structures and buildings
located on the site can then be pulled, as approved by the Director, CBO, and
Fire Marshall as required, in accordance with the requirements outlined in
division (F) below.
   (C)   Final inspection. A site plan approval is a binding development order
and all improvements reflected on approved site plans must be completed, and
all restrictions and conditions of site plan approval must be fulfilled, prior
to issuance of the final certificate of occupancy.
   (D)   Expiration of site plan approval.
      (1)   A site plan approval becomes void if a building permit has not been
issued within one year from the date of approval. A one-time three month
extension of approval may be granted by the Director if the applicant files for
an extension prior to the one year deadline. Additional extensions must be
approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      (2)   Applications for an additional extension from the Planning and
Zoning Commission shall be considered based on the following information:
         (a)   Progress of the project;
         (b)   Funds spent on the project;
         (c)   Good faith efforts;
         (d)   Weather-related delays and other Acts of God; and
         (e)   Delays related to archaeological or environmental issues.
   (E)   Revocation of site plan approval. The Director shall notify the
applicant of a violation of the conditions of approval or termination of a site
plan approval if the applicant has not commenced use of the building permit. If
no attempt is made to cure the issues of the violation within ten days of
notification, the site plan approval and all permits requiring site plan
approval shall be revoked.
   (F)   Building construction plan review process and requirements. Any
applications for any type of building, demolition, signage or other type of
building permits shall be made through the city's Chief Building Official
(CBO).
      (1)   Applications shall be submitted as a complete package. Partial and
incomplete submittals and submittals submitted by different entities will not
be accepted and they will be returned to the applicant at their expense. The
city will not be responsible for coordinating partial submittals. Complete site
plan submittals shall be submitted in the following format:
         (a)   A completed City of Page Building Permit Application.
         (b)   One electronic version of the plans and specs in PDF format for
distribution and our records.
         (c)   Two bound sets of the complete plans on 24" X 36" paper with a
white background.
         (d)   Supporting documentation, studies or reports shall be submitted
in PDF format only, unless paper copies are requested. The city will not make
paper copies to complete the package, including construction plans, supporting
documentation, studies or reports, if required.
         (e)   If the development requires fire sprinklers or fire protection,
a third complete set of paper plans shall be submitted for the Fire Marshall's
review and approval.
      (2)   Building permit application packets shall include everything
required by the most current adopted editions of the International Building
Codes (IBC), the International Residential Codes (IRC), the Fire, Electrical
and Plumbing Codes, the MAG SPECS, and the City Zoning and Subdivision Codes,
as required, and as amended and adopted by City Council from time to time.
   (G)   Certificate of Occupancy and Temporary Certificate of Occupancy. The
CBO is the city's representative authorized to issue a Temporary Certificate of
Occupancy (TCO) or final Certificate of Occupancy (C of O). A TCO may be issued
at the CBO's discretion for either 30, 60 or 90 days, as requested by the
applicant and as circumstances dictate, warranting the issuance of a TCO
instead of a final C of O. No occupancy of any structures shall be allowed
until all required improvements are complete and have been approved by the CBO.
   (H)   As-built submittal requirements for the city and Page Utility
Enterprises. Following are the requirements for As-Built drawings that must be
provided to the City of Page and Page Utility Enterprises, before any utility
services can be provided to the site:
   (I)   As-builts shall be provided to the city and Page Utility Enterprises
in three different formats:
      (1)   A copy of the working drawing which is the approved site
construction and utility plan with changes marked in red per these
requirements.
      (2)   A paper copy with only the actual constructed utilities (not as-
design utilities) shown on it stamped and signed by a registered Arizona
Engineer with the sheet labeled "As-Built".
      (3)   An electronic AutoCAD file with only the actual constructed
utilities (not as-design utilities).
   (J)   Contractor shall keep a working drawing onsite for viewing by the
city/Utilities at any time. The working drawing shall have ALL changes shown in
red.
   (K)   When changes occur, such as pipe sizes, lengths, etc., a line or "X"
shall be drawn through the changes with the actual installed size, material,
quantity, etc. written next to the change. Improvements deleted in the field
shall be crossed out with an "X" and labeled "not built" or "not installed".
The following additional requirements shall be provided and shown on all as-
builts:
      (1)   Provide exact details of changes or additional information,
including but not limited to fabrication, erection, installation, location,
sizing, material, dimensions, etc.
      (2)   Provide project control information, including coordinate system
and vertical datum basis.
      (3)   Water systems shall show bends, valves, fire hydrants, blow-offs,
air release valves, water meters, services, thrust blocks, etc. Pipes shall be
labeled with the type of pipe, size, length and depth to top of pipe.
Horizontal bend locations to be determined by surveying, include coordinates on
as-builts.
      (4)   Sewer systems shall show inverts in and out and lid elevations of
manholes, cleanouts, services, lift stations, etc. Pipes shall be labeled with
the type of pipe, size, length and slope. Inverts shall be determined by
surveying.
      (5)   Storm drain systems shall show invert and grate/opening elevations
and length of curb inlet for the catch basins. Pipes shall be labeled with type
of pipe, size, length and slope. Inverts shall be determined by surveying.
      (6)   Electric utilities shall show the location of transformers, j-
boxes, conduit, light poles, and the number of conduit and size shall be
labeled on the drawing as well as any spare conduits.
      (7)   Gas/propane utility line location and size shall be shown on the
as-builts.
      (8)   Cable and Communication utility lines and size shall be shown on
the as-builts.
      (9)   All existing and any new easements shall be shown on the paper and
electronic as-builts.
      (10)   Any utility crossings shall be detailed with the depths and
separation between utilities.
      (11)   Any changes or special situations that can't be shown clearly on
the drawing shall be shown in a blown-up detail. Such as bends used to raise or
lower a waterline.
      (12)   If utilities share the same trench, a cross section of the trench
shall be provided.
   (L)   No utility services will be provided to the site or development until
all As-builts are provided.
      (1)   Appeal. An appeal from any final decision of the Director or other
authorized staff may be appealed to the Board of Adjustment pursuant to the
procedures set forth in §
152.086(K). Decisions of the Planning and Zoning Commission may be appealed to
the City Council pursuant to the procedures set forth in §
152.086(K).
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.096 ANNEXATION.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide procedures
consistent with applicable state requirements for the annexation of real
property into the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   Initiation of annexations.
      (1)   City Council or City Manager. The City Council or City Manager may
direct staff to review specific property to determine whether it may be legally
annexed and to contact property owners to determine whether they will sign an
annexation petition.
      (2)   Owner initiation. One or more property owners may submit an
application to annex property owned by them into the city.
   (C)   Annexation process. All annexation proceedings shall be conducted in
conformance with A.R.S. § 9-471 and any other applicable state law requirements
for the annexation of land into the city.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.105 PURPOSE.
   This section establishes procedures through which the city seeks to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this code and obtain corrections for
violations. The section also sets forth the remedies and penalties that apply
to violations of this code.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.106 ENFORCEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Building and code compliance. Prior to issuance of building permits,
the Building Official shall ascertain that plans presented with the building
permit application comply with those approved standards subject to the
requirements of the zoning code.
   (B)   Code compliance. The provisions of this code shall be administered and
enforced by the Director and Chief Building Official (CBO), with enforcement
assistance from the Code Enforcement Officer, or such other person as may be
designated by the Administrator and is authorized to stop any work undertaken
not in compliance with any provision of the zoning code, approved permit, or
condition of approval.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.107 ENFORCEMENT GENERAL.
   (A)   No person shall develop or use any land, building, or structure within
the city in violation of this code, regulations authorized under this code, or
the terms and conditions of permits or other approvals or entitlements issued
under this code.
   (B)   No permit or approval may be issued under this code unless all
structures and uses of land and structures to be authorized by the permit or
approval conform to this code, regulations promulgated under this code, and the
terms and conditions of other applicable permits and approvals issued under
this code. Except as otherwise required by Arizona law, any permit issued or
administrative approval granted in conflict with this zoning chapter is void.
   (C)   Any person who participates in, assists, directs, creates, or
maintains any situation that is contrary to the requirements of this code may
be held responsible for the violation and suffer the penalties and be subject
to the remedies provided in this code.
   (D)   Each day any violation of any provision of this code, or the failure
to perform any act or duty required by this code, continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.108 TYPES OF VIOLATIONS AND OFFENSES.
   (A)   Any erection, construction, reconstruction, remodeling, alteration,
maintenance, expansion, movement, or use of any land, building, structure, or
sign that is inconsistent with this code or any regulation adopted pursuant to
this code.
   (B)   Any development, use, or other activity that is in any way
inconsistent with the terms or conditions of any permit or approval required to
engage in such activity and that was issued under or required by this code.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.109 VIOLATION REMEDIES.
   The Director or designee shall have the following remedies and powers to
enforce this code:
   (A)   Deny or withhold entitlements. The city may deny or withhold all
permits, certificates or other forms of authorization on any land or structure
or improvements thereon upon which there is an uncorrected violation of a
provision of this chapter or of a condition or qualification of a permit,
certificate, approval, or other authorization previously granted by the city.
This enforcement provision shall apply regardless of whether the current owner
or applicant is responsible for the violation in question.
   (B)   Entitlement approved with conditions. Instead of withholding or
denying a permit or authorization (as described in division (A), above) the
city may grant such authorization subject to the condition that the violation
be corrected.
   (C)   Revoke entitlements.
      (1)   Any development permit or other form of authorization required
under this chapter may be revoked when the Director determines:
         (a)   That there is departure from the plans, specifications, or
conditions as required under terms of the permit;
         (b)   That the development permit was procured by false representation
or was issued by mistake; or
         (c)   That any of the provisions of this chapter are being violated.
      (2)   Written notice of such revocation shall be served upon the owner,
the owner's agent or contract, or upon any person employed on the building or
structure for which such permit was issued, or shall be posted in a prominent
location; and, thereafter, no such construction shall proceed.
   (D)   Stop work. With or without revoking permits, the Director or designee
may stop work on any building or structure on any land on which there is an
uncorrected violation of a provision of this chapter or of a permit or other
form of authorization issued hereunder, in accordance with the city's power to
stop work under its building codes. A stop-work procedure is as follows:
      (1)   The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed both to the
permit holder and the person doing the work, and shall specify the provisions
of this code or other law allegedly in violation. After any such order has been
served, no work shall proceed on any building, structure, or tract of land
covered by such order, except to correct such violation or comply with the
order.
      (2)   Once conditions for resumption of the work have been met, the
Director or designee shall rescind the stop-work order.
   (E)   Abatement. The city may commence an action to abate a violation of the
zoning code pursuant to A.R.S § 9-499.
   (F)   Other remedies. The city shall have such other remedies as are and as
may be from time to time provided by Arizona law for the violation of zoning or
related ordinance provisions.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.110 CRIMINAL AND CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this code,
or any amendments to it, shall be guilty of a Class One Misdemeanor punishable
by a fine not exceeding $2,500, or by imprisonment for a period not exceeding
six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment, for each violation. Every
action or proceeding under this section shall be commenced and prosecuted in
accordance with the laws of the State of Arizona relating to misdemeanors and
the Arizona Rules of Criminal Procedure.
   (B)   Violation of any provision of this code, or any amendments to it, may
also subject the offender to issuance of a civil citation. The citation shall
direct the defendant to appear in Page Magistrate Court or pay a fine not to
exceed $250 within 14 days after issuance of the citation. The civil citation
shall be substantially in the same form and format as the Arizona Traffic
Ticket and Complaint standard form.
      (1)   The citation shall be served by delivering a copy to the defendant
by any of the following means:
         (a)   By having the defendant sign the citation with the promise to
appear in court on or before the date specified on the face of the citation.
         (b)   If the defendant refuses to sign the citation, then the Director
or designee shall hand-deliver a copy of the citation to the defendant and note
on the defendant's copy of the citation date and time of hand delivery to the
defendant.
         (c)   By mailing a copy of the citation to the person charged by
certified or return receipt requested mail, to the person's last known address.
         (d)   In the event that service cannot be accomplished as set forth in
this division, the defendant may be served by any means contemplated or allowed
by the Arizona Rules of Civil Procedure or Arizona Rules of Practice for the
Superior Court.
      (2)   The citation shall contain the date and location of the violation,
reference to the code section or provision violated, and notice that within 14
days from the date on which the citation was issued the fine for the violation
must be paid to and received by the Page Magistrate Court or a request for a
hearing be made to and received by the Page Magistrate Court.
      (3)   The citation shall state that if the defendant fails to appear
within the time specified, and either pay the fine for the violation or request
a hearing, judgment by default will be entered in the amount of the fine
designated on the citation for the violation charged plus a penalty amount as
may be established by the Court for the defendant's failure to appear.
      (4)   The Arizona Rules of Procedure in Civil Traffic Violation Cases
shall be followed by the Page Magistrate Court for civil citations issued
pursuant to this code, except as modified or where inconsistent with the
provisions of the zoning and development code or as modified or established for
use by the Page Magistrate Court or the Arizona Supreme Court.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.111 CONTINUATION OF PRIOR ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS.
   Nothing in this code shall prohibit the continuation of previous enforcement
actions undertaken by the city pursuant to previous regulations.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.112 CUMULATIVE PROCEDURES AND REMEDIES.
   The procedures and remedies provided for herein shall be cumulative and in
addition to any other procedures and remedies to which the city may be entitled
by law or equity.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
NONCONFORMITIES
§ 152.120 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate and restrict uses,
structures, lots, site characteristics, and signs established legally prior to
the adoption or amendment of this code but do not conform to the requirements
of this code. All such situations are collectively referred to herein as "legal
nonconformities."
   (B)   It is also the intent of this chapter to regulate and restrict uses,
structures, lots, site characteristics, and signs that were established
illegally after the adoption or amendment of this code that do not conform to
the requirements of this code. All such situations are collectively referred to
herein as "nonconformities."
   (C)   It is the intent of this section to encourage the continuing
improvement of the city by limiting the extent to which nonconforming
structures and uses may continue to be used, expanded, or replaced, while
allowing for improvements in their appearance.
   (D)   It is also the intent of this section to eventually cure all "legal
nonconforming" uses, structures, lots and signs, and eliminate all uses,
structures, lots and signs that are simply "nonconforming".
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.121 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Authority to continue. Any legal nonconforming use of land or a legal
nonconforming use of a conforming structure that lawfully existed as of the
passage of this code and that remains nonconforming, and any nonconformity that
is created as a result of the adoption of this code or any subsequent amendment
to the text of this code, may be continued or maintained as a legal
nonconformity only in accordance with the terms of this section.
   (B)   Determination of nonconformance status. The property owner shall have
the burden to show that a purported legal nonconforming structure, lot or use
was lawfully established prior to the effective date of this code.
   (C)   Change of ownership or tenancy. Changes of ownership, tenancy, or
management of property with an existing legal nonconformity may occur, but such
legal nonconformities shall continue to be subject to the provisions of this
section into perpetuity, or until a change in a future code, or any subsequent
amendment to the text of this code makes it a conforming structure, lot or use.
   (D)   Maintenance and minor repair. Minor repairs or maintenance of legal
nonconformities are permitted, provided that the minor repairs and maintenance
do not increase or expand the extent of nonconformity. For purposes of this
section, MAINTENANCE OR MINOR REPAIR shall mean:
      (1)   Repairs that are necessary to maintain and to correct any damage or
deterioration to the structural soundness or exterior or interior appearance of
a building or structure without expanding the building or structure;
      (2)   Maintenance of land areas to protect against health and
environmental hazards; and
      (3)   Repairs that are required to remedy unsafe conditions that cause a
threat to public safety.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.122 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Expansion, enlargement and modification. Any nonconforming use (legal
or otherwise) of land or a nonconforming use of a conforming structure that is
not in compliance with this code shall not be enlarged, extended, moved, or
substituted unless the use is brought into compliance with this code. However,
reasonable repairs and alterations are permissible for legal nonconformities in
accordance with the provisions of §
152.121(D).
   (B)   Change of use.
      (1)   Any nonconforming use may be changed to a conforming use and once
such change is made, the use shall not thereafter be changed back to a
nonconforming use. A change to a conforming use shall also not create any
additional nonconforming situations.
      (2)   Where a conforming use is located in a legal nonconforming
structure, the use may be changed to another conforming use by securing a
certificate of occupancy.
   (C)   Loss of nonconforming status. If a nonconforming (legal or otherwise)
use of land or a nonconforming use of a conforming structure is discontinued
for a continuous period of six months, the rights to a legal nonconforming
status shall terminate. The initial decision as to whether a prior existing,
non-conforming use has been abandoned shall be made by the Director, subject to
said decision being appealed to the Board of Adjustment by the affected
property owner within 30-days of the ruling by the Director following the
procedures under §
152.086(K).
   (D)   Conditional uses. A use that received a conditional use permit prior
to the effective date of this code and that is permitted in its entirety as a
principal use in the district in which it is located under this code shall not
be deemed a nonconforming use. Such use shall be deemed a permitted principal
use and the conditional use approval and conditions of approval relative to the
use shall be null and void.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.123 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES AND SIGNS.
   (A)   Continuance. An existing structure or sign that lawfully existed as of
the passage of this code and that remains nonconforming, and any nonconformity
that is created as a result of the adoption of this code or any subsequent
amendment to the text of this code, may be continued or maintained as a legal
nonconformity only in accordance with the terms of this section.
   (B)   Expansion, enlargement and modification. No nonconforming structure or
sign may be enlarged or altered in a way that increases its nonconformity,
unless said expansion or alteration complies with development standards of the
zoning district in which it is located, including but not limited to, setbacks
and height limitations applicable to the use for new construction, parking
regulations and landscaping and screening requirements of this code, and all
other applicable codes and ordinances of the city.
   (C)   Destruction and replacement. Any legal nonconforming structure or sign
when damaged or destroyed by force majeure or some other means, may be restored
without impairment to any existing legal nonconforming status, provided:
      (1)   If more than 50% of the current assessed value of any nonconforming
structure or sign is destroyed, it shall not be reconstructed unless it is made
to conform to the requirements of this code.
      (2)   If less than 50% of the current assessed value of any nonconforming
structure is destroyed, it may be reconstructed as long as a building permit is
submitted within 90 days after the date of destruction, provided the resulting
structure complies with current building codes and the size and function of the
nonconforming use shall not be expanded. Upon written request, the Director may
grant a one-time three month extension for the submittal of a building permit
application.
      (3)   An appraisal, paid for by the owner, shall determine the above
assessed value. The appraisal must be done by an Arizona licensed/certified
appraiser for structures, or an Arizona licensed sign contractor for signs. A
certified assessment from an Arizona licensed structural engineer may also be
required by the Director to assure that the structural integrity of the
structure or sign has not been diminished beyond repair.
   (D)   Loss of nonconforming status. If a nonconforming (legal or otherwise)
structure or sign has been abandoned or determined to be not in use for a
continuous period of six months, the rights to a legal nonconforming status
shall terminate and the structure or sign must be brought into compliance with
all current codes in effect at the time the structure or sign is to regain use,
and before the structure can be reoccupied. If the sign, or any part thereof
cannot be brought into compliance and made conforming, for whatever reason, it
shall be removed and the building, land or site restored to its previous
condition.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.124 NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   Any lot of record that is effective as of the date of this code and is
considered a nonconformity because of noncompliance with lot width or area
requirements may be used for any use permitted in the zoning district in which
it is located, provided compliance with all other applicable building setbacks
and all other applicable regulations of this code are met.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.125 RESERVED.
DEFINITIONS
§ 152.135 PURPOSE.
   This chapter provides technical and specialized definitions of terms and
phrases used in this code that may not reflect common usage. If any definition
conflicts with definitions in other provisions of the code, the specific
section's meaning and application shall control. If a word is not defined in
this section, or elsewhere in the code, or the A.R.S., the Director shall
determine the most appropriate definition in compliance with §
152.136(H).
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.136 GENERAL RULES.
   The following general rules shall apply for interpreting the terms and
provisions of this code.
   (A)   Tenses, plurals, gender and persons. Words used in one tense or form
shall include other tenses and derivative forms. Words used in the singular
number shall include the plural and words used in the plural shall include the
singular. The masculine gender shall include the feminine and the feminine
gender shall include the masculine. The word "person" includes individuals,
firms, corporations, associations, trusts and any other similar entities,
including the federal government, another city, county or school district,
except as exempt by law.
   (B)   Illustrations and photographs. Illustrations and photographs are
included in this code for illustrative purposes only. In case of any difference
of meaning or implication between the text of this chapter and any
illustration, the text shall control.
   (C)   Lists and examples. Unless otherwise specifically indicated, lists or
examples that use terms such as "for example," "including," and "such as," or
similar language are intended as examples and are not lists of all
possibilities.
   (D)   Computation of time. If a deadline or required date of action falls on
a Friday, Saturday, Sunday, or holiday observed by the city, the deadline or
required date of action shall be the next business day. References to days are
calendar days unless otherwise stated.
   (E)   References to other regulations/publications. Whenever reference is
made to a resolution, ordinance, statute, regulation, or document, it shall be
construed as a reference to the most recent edition, unless otherwise
specifically stated.
   (F)   Mandatory and permissive terms. The words "shall," "must," and "will"
are mandatory, establishing an obligation to comply with the particular
provision. The words "may" and "should" are permissive.
   (G)   Conjunctions. Unless the context clearly suggests the contrary,
conjunctions shall be interpreted as follows: "And" indicates that all
connected items, conditions, provisions or events apply; and "Or" indicates
that one or more apply.
   (H)   Interpretations. The Director has final authority to determine the
interpretation or usage of terms used in this chapter. Any person may request
an interpretation of any term by submitting a written request to the Director,
who shall respond in writing within 15 days. The Planning and Zoning Department
shall keep a public record of all interpretations and determinations rendered.
   (I)   Use interpretation. If an application is submitted for a use type not
listed in the Use Tables, §§
152.025 through
152.033, the Director shall be authorized to make a "Similar Use
Interpretation," based on the following considerations:
      (1)   The actual characteristics of the use in relation to the stated
characteristics of each use type;
      (2)   The relative amount of site area or floor space and equipment
devoted to the activity;
      (3)   Relative amounts of sales from each activity;
      (4)   The customer type for each activity;
      (5)   The relative number of employees in each activity;
      (6)   Hours of operation;
      (7)   Building and site arrangement;
      (8)   Vehicles used with the activity;
      (9)   The relative number of vehicle trips generated by the use; and
      (10)   How the use advertises itself.
   (J)   Use interpretation standards.
      (1)   No similar use interpretation shall allow a use that is a permitted
or conditional use in any other zoning district.
      (2)   No similar use interpretation shall permit any use in any zoning
district unless evidence presented demonstrates it will comply with all
applicable use standards, requirements and standards of this code.
      (3)   No similar use interpretation shall permit any use in a zoning
district unless it is more similar to uses listed for the respective zone than
it is to permitted or conditional uses in other zoning districts.
      (4)   If the proposed use is more similar to a use allowed only as a
conditional use in the zoning district in which it is to be located, then that
use shall require a conditional use permit.
   (K)   Effect of similar use interpretation. No similar use interpretation
finding a particular use to be permitted or conditionally permitted shall
authorize the establishment of such use or the development, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, or moving of any building or structure, but shall
merely authorize the preparation, filing, and processing of applications for
any permits and approvals required by the city codes and ordinances or other
governmental agencies having jurisdiction. These include, but are not limited
to conditional use permits, building permits, and certificates of occupancy.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 152.137 SPECIFIC DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this code, unless the content clearly indicates the
contrary, the following words, phrases, and terms shall have the following
meanings:
      (1)   Use categories. Use categories classify land uses and activities
into categories based on common functional, product, or physical
characteristics. Characteristics include the type and amount of activity, the
type of customers or residents, how goods or services are sold or delivered and
site conditions. The use categories provide a systematic basis for organizing
and assigning present and future land uses into appropriate zoning districts.
      (2)   Specific use type. Specific uses are assigned to the category that
most closely describes the activity of the specific use. Specific uses shall be
considered based on common characteristics and not on what a specific use is
called. For example, a use called "Wholesale Warehouse" that sells clothes to
retail consumers on any scale is included in the "Retail, General" use rather
than "Wholesale Establishment" use since the actual activity matches the use
description of Retail, General.
      (3)   Developments with multiple specific uses. When all principal uses
of a development fall within one specific use, the entire development is
assigned that use. A development that contains a clothing store, bookstore and
bakery, for example, would be categorized as a Retail, General use type since
all the specific uses are in that use. When the specific uses fall into
different use types, each use is classified independently into it's applicable
use and subject to all applicable regulations for each specific use.
   ABUT, ABUTTING, CONTIGUOUS. To share, border or physically touch a common
property boundary or right-of-way.
   ACCESSIBLE PARKING SPACE. A parking space that meets the requirements of the
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).
   ACCESSORY BUILDING/STRUCTURE. A secondary detached building or structure
situated on the same lot or building site, the use of which is incidental to
that of a main building, with or without utilities.
   ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT. A dwelling unit on the same lot with the principal
dwelling unit structure or use which includes any structure or portion of a
structure, other than the principal structure or use, wherein kitchenette and
sanitation facilities are also provided.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use of land and/or building or portion thereof secondary to
the principal use of the land and/or building and located on the same lot.
   ADJACENT/ADJOINING. The condition of being near to or close to but not
necessarily having a common dividing line. Two properties which are separated
by only a street or alley shall be considered as adjacent to one another.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS. Any business establishment where employees,
independent contractors or patrons expose specified anatomical areas or engage
in or simulate specified sexual activities, or any business establishment which
offers to its patrons services or entertainment distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on matters depicting, exposing, describing, discussing, or
relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas. The
businesses may include, but are not limited to, Adult Live Entertaining
Establishment, Adult Only Massage Establishment, Adult Theater, or Adult Retail
Establishment such as:
      (1)   Adult Book Store. A commercial establishment having for sale or
viewing by patrons on its premise a substantial and significant portion of its
stock in trade, books, magazines and other periodicals or printed matter
principally characterized by their emphasis on matters depicting, describing or
relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (2)   Adult Cinema. An enclosed building or open-air theater used on a
regular basis for presenting for observation by customers pictorial material or
other visual images by direct or indirect projections, or through coin or slug
operated or electronically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture,
videotape machines or other image-producing devices maintained to show images
or material, a predominance of which is principally distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on the depiction of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas, in return for the exchange of any form of
consideration, irrespective of the number of patrons who may be able to view
the presentation at any one time.
      (3)   Adult Hotel/Motel. A hotel or motel which provides as a predominant
part of its major business the presentation of material for viewing by patrons
in exchange for any form of consideration or gratuity material which is
predominantly distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matters
depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas and which rents its facilities on an hourly or less than daily
basis.
      (4)   Cabaret. A nightclub, theater or other enterprise which features as
a predominant component of its business live performances by topless and/or
bottomless dancers, male or female strippers, or other similar exotic
entertainers, where the performances are predominantly distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or features a less
than complete and opaque covering of specified anatomical areas.
   AGRIBUSINESS, ENTERTAINMENT FARMING. A commercial, service and/or industrial
use operated primarily for the direct support of agricultural activities that
may consist of agricultural equipment rental and sales; the storage,
warehousing, distribution and wholesaling of agricultural products;
agricultural research, development, management and maintenance services
conducted primarily within an office; agri-entertainment, such as pick-your-own
operations, pumpkin patches, corn mazes, agricultural festivals and educational
activities; and other similar agriculture related uses.
   AGRICULTURE, GENERAL. The use of land for agricultural purposes, where
growing and harvesting activities associated with horticulture, floriculture,
viticulture, apiaries, aviaries along with necessary accessory uses
(greenhouses, incidental raising of agricultural animals, or the storage of
agricultural related equipment used on the premises and temporary storage of
agricultural products used and/or produced on the premise) takes place;
provided, however, that the operation of any such accessory use shall be
secondary to the principal agricultural activities. General Agriculture uses
may or may not be owner-occupied and may utilize employees who are not owners
or family. This use does not include: dairies, commercial animal breeding,
concentrated animal feeding operations (CAFO), slaughter and meat packing
plants, or fertilizer yards.
   AIRPORT HAZARD. Any structure or object, man-made and/or natural growth,
located on or in the vicinity of an airport; or any use of land or electronic
equipment near such airport which obstructs the air space required for, or is
otherwise hazardous to, the flight of aircraft in landing or take-off at such
airport.
   AIRPORT MASTER PLAN. The master plan for the municipal airport as adopted
from time to time by the Airport Board and/or City Council.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES, RETAIL SALES. A retail establishment, such as a liquor
store, licensed to sell alcoholic beverages such as beer, wine, and liquor. No
on-site consumption is allowed.
   ALLEY. A minor way (public or private) that is used primarily for vehicular
access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting a street.
   ALLOWED/PERMITTED USE. A use of land identified by §§
152.025 through
152.033 as a permitted use, subject to compliance with all applicable
provisions of this code.
   ALTERNATIVE ENERGY SYSTEM. An alternative method of collecting electricity
primarily intended to augment on-site electricity consumption, such as solar
panels and wind turbines, but does not include utility scale (major) facilities
like, but not limited to, wind farms or solar generating facilities.
   ANIMAL H0SPITAL/VETERINARIAN. A facility used by licensed veterinarians to
provide medical services and/or general hygienic services to animals. Does not
include general overnight boarding or kenneling of animals not under medical
care.
   ANIMAL KENNEL/SHELTER. A place where four or more dogs over the age of three
months are boarded, bred, or offered for sale or accepts and/or seizes domestic
animals to board them overnight, care for them, placing them through adoption,
or assist with law enforcement. A zoo, pet store, veterinary clinic, animal
hospital, and animal husbandry are not considered a kennel.
   ANTENNA. Any device on a tower, building or structure that emits and/or
receives electromagnetic waves for the purpose of communicating and
transmitting and receiving information.
   APPLICANT. Any person applying for any permit or decision governed or
required by this chapter.
   ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE. The design and/or construction technique and elements
or combination of elements that are the character-defining features of a
structure.
   AREA, GROSS. The land area (acres/square feet) within the boundaries of a
parcel or lot, including all non-dedicated private streets or alleys, and any
type of dedicated easements.
   AREA, NET. The land area (acres/square feet) within the boundaries of a
parcel or lot, excluding all dedicated public street rights-of-way and any type
of dedicated easements.
   ASSEMBLY HALL/AUDITORIUM/CONFERENCE CENTER. A structure designed to
facilitate organized short-term events such as weddings, receptions, and
conferences. Accessory uses may include meeting rooms, kitchen facilities,
parking, and childcare provided for patrons. Schools associated with assembly
uses are not an accessory use.
   ASSEMBLY, LIGHT. An establishment engaged in the on-site assembly of goods.
No manufacturing of parts occurs. Goods are shipped to establishment,
assembled, packaged, and reshipped. Assembly and packaging involves only the
use of hand tools or domestic mechanical equipment not exceeding two horsepower
or a single kiln not exceeding eight kilowatts. Typical light assembly uses
include ceramic studios and custom jewelry manufacturing.
   ASSISTED LIVING CENTER/HOME. A residential care facility that provides
resident rooms for housing and caring for the ambulatory, aged or infirm; other
than a nursing home, group home, or hospital; licensed by the Arizona State
Department of Health Services for more than ten persons in a facility. Care
givers are constantly present and may (or may not) reside on site. Facilities
typically include common kitchen and dining areas but may contain individual
resident kitchenettes.
   ATTACHMENT, ATTACHED, ATTACH. Accessory structures or dwellings connected to
another structure by a common wall, breezeway, beam, vertical concrete
structure or similar that physically attaches/adjoins both structures.
   ATTENTION GETTING DEVICE. A device designed and intended to attract
attention by noise and/or a sudden, intermittent or rhythmic movement, physical
change or lighting change, such as banners, flags, streamers, balloons,
propellers, whirligigs, search lights and flashing lights.
   AUTOMOBILE/BOAT REPAIR, MAJOR. Repair of automobiles, boats, trucks,
motorcycles, motor homes, and recreational vehicles, including the sale,
installation, and servicing of related equipment and parts, generally on an
overnight basis. This classification includes auto/boat engine repair shops;
body, hull and fender shops, transmission shops, restoration, refurbishing, but
excludes auto/boat dismantling or salvaging and tire re-treading or recapping.
   AUTOMOBILE/BOAT REPAIR, MINOR. This definition is the same as MAJOR except
this use only allows minor repairs and no overnight parking of vehicles where
this service typically includes quickservice oil, tune-up, wheel and brake
shops, muffler shops, auto glass services, propeller service, battery
replacement and tire sales and installation, where repairs are made or service
provided in enclosed bays. This classification excludes major engine repair,
body, hull and fender work, vehicle/boat painting, or towing, repair of heavy
trucks, construction vehicles, or boats exceeding nine feet wide by 30 feet
long.
   AUTO WRECKING AND SALVAGE YARD. Any lot upon which two or more motor
vehicles are incapable of being operated due to condition or lack of license or
registration, have been placed for the purpose of obtaining parts for recycling
or resale.
   BAR, LOUNGE, OR TAVERN. A facility used primarily for the sale or dispensing
and on-site consumption of alcoholic beverages by the drink, which may or may
not serve food. Any similar type of facility that does not meet the definition
of a restaurant shall be considered a bar, lounge, or tavern.
   BASIN, DETENTION/RETENTION FACILITY. Detention temporarily stores surface
runoff and releases it at a controlled rate through a positive outlet, while
retention stores surface runoff that is eventually infiltrated into the ground
and/or naturally evaporated.
   BED AND BREAKFAST, HOMESTAY. See VACATION HOME RENTALS.
   BOARDING/SHELTER CARE. A facility where rooms are provided or rented/leased
to persons on a transient basis, which excludes hotels/motels, group homes,
resident care homes, assisted living facilities, nursing homes, dormitories,
substance abuse detoxification centers or treatment centers.
   BREWERY or DISTILLERY. A facility for the brewing/distilling and wholesale
distribution of beer or other distilled alcoholic beverages produced onsite,
subject to state licensing.
   BUFFER. A landscaped area intended to separate and partially obstruct the
view of two adjacent land uses or properties from one another.
   BUILDABLE AREA. That portion of a lot upon when construction is permitted,
consisting of the area which lies within the boundaries of the front, side and
rear yard setback requirements.
   BUILDING/STRUCTURE. A building or structure having one or more stories and a
roof, designed primarily for the shelter, support, or enclosure or persons,
animals, or property or any structure permanently affixed to the ground or
building. This shall include tents, awnings or vehicles situated on private
property and used for the purposes of a building or permanent in-ground
swimming pools, fences, or any other permanently affixed above-ground or below-
ground structure.
   BUILDING FACADE. An exterior building elevation.
   BUILDING PERMIT. A permit issued by the city that is required for the
construction, demolition, modification, enlargement, or moving of any building,
structure or use in the city.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building which contains the principal use of the lot
on which it stands. In any residential zone, dwellings shall be deemed to be
the principal building on the lot.
   CALIPER. The diameter of the tree trunk measured six inches above the
immediate ground level.
   CAMPGROUND. A parcel with two or more campsites available for rent to the
general public, which may also include recreational vehicles, cabins, or tents
as temporary recreational living quarters.
   CANOPY/AWNING. A cloth, fabric or metal covered overhang with a metal
framework which projects from a wall or roof of a structure over a window,
walk, door or similar for protection from the elements that is typically
supported by a structure or the ground.
   CARPORT. A roofed structure for parking or storage of motor vehicles, open
on two or more sides.
   CAR WASH. A facility designed/used for rinsing, cleaning and drying
automobiles, providing either self-serve facilities or employees to perform
such services.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A document issued by the Director or designee
allowing the occupancy or use of a building which certifies the structure has
been constructed and/or will be used in compliance with all applicable city
codes.
   CHANGE OF USE. Any use which differs or changes from the previous principal
or accessory use of a building or land.
   CHANNEL LETTER. Individual letters applied singly to form a building mounted
or freestanding sign. Channel letters may be illuminated or non-illuminated.
   CHILD CARE, CENTER. Any state certified facility in which care and
supervision for five or more children is regularly provided for compensation
for periods of less than 24 hours per day. This classification includes nursery
schools, preschools, day care for children or adults, and any other non-
residential licensed day care facility.
   CHILD/ADULT DAY CARE HOME. A state certified facility, the primary use of
which is a residence, in which child care for not less than five children and
not more than ten children through the age of 12 or adult day care for at least
five and not more than ten adults is regularly provided for compensation for
periods of less than 24 hours per day. The following are not a Day Care, Home;
an assisted living facility, group care home, or day care home occupation.
   CIRCULATION AREA. That portion of the vehicle accommodation area used for
access to parking or loading areas or other facilities on the lot. Essentially
it includes driveways and other maneuvering areas but not parking spaces.
   CITY. The City of Page, Arizona.
   CLINIC. An establishment where patient care is administered on an out-
patient basis by one or more licensed physicians and/or dentists and their
professional associates.
   COFFEE SHOPS/CAFES. Establishments that primarily serve nonalcoholic
beverages and/or specialty foods or snacks for consumption on or near the
premises.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To allow the same or competing cell providers to
collocate their equipment on their, or on another provider’s existing structure
or other authority's utility pole.
   COLOR CORRELATED TEMPERATURE (CCT). The temperature of an object (blackbody
radiator) in degrees Kelvin that gives the most similar color (spectral)
distribution. Higher CCT usually shifts frequency to the blue. The CCT value of
lamps is now usually included in all packaging.
   COMMERCIAL ENTERTAINMENT, INDOOR. A business that regularly hosts or
conducts indoor entertainment on their premises for public entertainment as
part of their business practices, including concert halls, performance
theatres, stadiums, and other similar indoor entertainment uses.
   COMMERCIAL ENTERTAINMENT, OUTDOOR. A large open or partially enclosed space
or private business that is regularly used for the public outdoor
entertainment, with accessory uses which may include restaurants, bars,
concessions, parking, and maintenance facilities.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle currently registered as such with any state
Department of Motor Vehicles which is used primarily for business purposes as
opposed to private or individual use.
   COMMON AREA. Land in a residential development held in common and/or single
ownership and not reserved for the exclusive use or benefit of an individual
tenant or owner.
   COMMON OWNERSHIP. Ownership by one or more individuals under any type of
ownership.
   COMPATIBLE. The use of land and/or a structure that is capable of existing
in harmony with other structures or uses of land adjacent to, or in proximity
of the land use or structure in question.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use permitted in a particular zoning district after it
has been approved through the conditional use permit process that complies with
all required conditions for the location or operation of such use as specified
in this chapter.
   CORRECTIONAL TRANSITIONAL HOUSE. A supervised dwelling unit where
individuals who are completing a sentence, reside for a defined period of time
for counseling, job placement assistance, and similar services that assist in
transitioning from institutional to community living.
   COUNCIL. The City Council for the City of Page, Arizona.
   COUNTY. Coconino County, State of Arizona.
   CREMATORIUM or FUNERAL PARLOR. A facility containing properly installed and
certified apparatus intended for cremation, or for the preparation of the
deceased for burial and display and any associated rituals conducted prior to
burial or cremation, including permanent storage of cremated remains.
   CURB CUT. A dip in a sidewalk and curb that enables vehicles to drive to a
house, business, garage, parking lot, loading dock or drive-through, in
compliance with ADA Standards for the disabled.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A local street, one end of which is closed and consists of a
circular turn around.
   DAY CARE, HOME OCCUPATION. A permanent residential unit where an occupant
provides day care and supervision for no more than four children or adults not
residing in the household, whether or not for compensation. The following uses
are not a home occupation day care use: group home; day care; home and day care
center.
   DECK. A projecting non-enclosed house extension located less than eight feet
above the ground.
   DEDICATION. The designation of land by its owner(s) for any general or
public use.
   DENSITY. The total number of dwelling units and undeveloped lots divided by
the gross area (acres) unless otherwise stated.
   DEVELOPER. A person or other legal entity who desires to improve or
otherwise engage in any development of property within the city.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any manmade change to real property, including but not limited
to mining, excavation, grading, construction, conversion, or enlargement of the
site or any structure on the site.
   DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT. An agreement between the city and any person having a
legal or equitable interest in real property for the development of such
property which complies with the applicable provisions of the Arizona Revised
Statutes for such agreements.
   DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A plan submitted for approval by the city pursuant to the
city zoning ordinance. Such plan shall describe with reasonable certainty the
density, intensity of use and development standards for the parcel or parcels
associated with a planned area development.
   DIRECTOR/PLANNING DIRECTOR. The Director of the Planning and Zoning
Department.
   DISABILITY. With respect to an individual: (a) a physical or mental
impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities of such
individual; (b) a record of such an impairment; or (c) being regarded as having
such an impairment. For purposes of this definition, a qualified individual
with a disability shall not include an individual who is currently engaging in
the illegal use of drugs, when the covered entity acts on the basis of such
use, except as provided in 42 U.S.C. § 12210. The term "illegal use of drugs"
means the use of drugs, the possession or distribution of which is unlawful
under the Controlled Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. § 812. Such term does not
include the use of a drug taken under supervision by a licensed health care
professional, or other uses authorized by the Controlled Substances Act or
other provisions of federal law. The term Disability shall be interpreted in a
manner consistent with the definition of disability in the Americans with
Disabilities Amendment Act of 2008.
   DORMITORY. A building used as group living quarters for students, a
religious order, or other groups as an associated use to a college, boarding
school, convent, or other similar use. Dormitories do not include independent
kitchen facilities.
   DRIVEWAY. The improved surface that provides ingress and egress to a public
street or alley from a house, business or other use or structure.
   DUPLEX. A building which contains two dwelling units attached by a common
vertical party wall designed for occupancy and permanent living quarters for
two individuals or families.
   DWELLING. See DWELLING UNIT.
   DWELLING, LIVE/WORK. A combined site built dwelling unit and working space,
occupied and utilized by a single individual or family in either a detached
dwelling unit located behind the principal workplace or a unified structure
that has been designed or structurally modified to accommodate joint
residential occupancy and work activity in compliance with all applicable
planning, zoning and building codes; and the working space is reserved for and
regularly used by one or more occupants.
   DWELLING, MANUFACTURED HOME. A factory built dwelling unit, certified as a
manufactured home (Red Tag) that is transportable in one or more sections and
assembled on site, that is at least eight feet wide and 32 feet long that is
built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling unit, with
or without a permanent foundation, when connected to on-site utilities, and
that was constructed in accordance with the National Manufactured Home
Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 and Title VI of the Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974.
   DWELLING, MOBILE HOME. A single contained dwelling unit built on or after
June 15, 1976, in accordance with the National Manufactured Home Construction
and Safety Standards Act of 1974 and Title VI of the Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974.
   DWELLING, MODULAR HOME. A factory-built and inspected residential dwelling
unit certified as a modular home (Blue Tag), excluding mobile homes and
manufactured homes. Such housing is certified as meeting the state and local
building codes as applicable to modular housing and shall be considered
equivalent to a site built dwelling unit which requires substantial assembly on
site. Also referred to as "factory built" in Department of Building, Fire and
Safety Rules, State of Arizona.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A single building containing three or more
individual and separate dwelling units on an individual lot for occupancy by
individuals or families living independently of each other where the building
and land are under single ownership and dwelling units are rented or leased.
Within a condominium, ownership consists of the airspace within a unit and the
building(s), open spaces and common areas and all land within the development
is under common ownership.
   DWELLING, ACCESSORY SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED. A stand-alone accessory dwelling
unit designed for use by one individual or family, located on a single lot, and
sharing no walls with other dwelling units.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED. See DUPLEX.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   EASEMENT. Is a right to use a portion of the land of another for a special
purpose or public use such as, by way of example, vehicular or transportation
access, drainage, or public utilities, including prescriptive easements on
private property.
   EFFECTIVE DATE. The date on which this chapter, a permit or other approval
becomes enforceable or otherwise takes effect, rather than the date it was
approved, signed or circulated.
   ELECTRONIC MESSAGE CENTER. A sign that uses computer-generated or electronic
components to change advertising copy, messages or color, including signs that
flip or rotate.
   ELEVATION. The vertical distance above or below a fixed reference level,
such as sea level, or a flat scale drawing of the front, rear or side of a
building or structure.
   EMPLOYEE/CONTRACTOR QUARTERS. A group dwelling facility located in one or
more buildings occupied on a temporary basis by workers (only) not from the
immediate area who are employed in the area for specific purposes (such as
seasonal recreation, agricultural, construction services, or similar
activities) and for a defined period of time. This does not include hotels,
motels, mobile homes, manufactured homes, a manufactured home park, a
campground, or a recreational vehicle park as defined and regulated herein.
   ENCROACHMENT. A right of access or entry agreed upon by the property owner
or mandated by the city, state or federal government.
   ERECTED. Built, constructed, altered, moved upon; any physical activities on
a site that requires construction, excavation, fill, drainage and the like, is
considered erected.
   EXCAVATION. Removal or recovery by any means of soil, rocks, minerals, or
organic substances other than vegetation from water or land from beneath the
land surface whether exposed or submerged.
   EXISTING/NATURAL GRADE/ELEVATION. The height of ground before excavating or
filling.
   EXISTING USE. The use of a lot or structure at the time of enactment of this
code.
   EXPANSION/ENLARGEMENT. The process of becoming greater in size, number, or
amount.
   EXTERIOR DISPLAY. Materials and items for sale in conjunction with a retail
business that are displayed outside or underneath a canopy for more than 24
hours and which are not stored within a building. This does not include outside
vending machines or architectural props or decorations.
   EXTERIOR WALL. Any wall that defines the exterior boundaries of a building
or structure.
   FAA. An acronym for the Federal Aviation Administration.
   FABRICATION. Means to construct or assemble from diverse and usually
standardized parts.
   FACADE. The entire building front including the parapet.
   FAMILY. One or more persons living together as a single housekeeping unit,
in a dwelling unit.
   FENCE. An artificially constructed barrier of any materials approved by this
chapter erected to enclose or screen areas of land.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. An institution that provides banking, lending, or
similar financial services to persons and businesses. This definition does not
include non-chartered financial institutions.
   FINISHED GRADE. The final grade and elevation of the ground surface after
grading is completed and in conformance with the approved grading plans.
   FITNESS AND SPORTS CENTER. A facility primarily featuring equipment for
exercise and other active sports and physical fitness facilities, such as
swimming, skating, racquet sports, aerobic dance, gymnasium facilities, indoor
soccer, yoga, and other similar activities.
   FLAG. A fabric sheet of square, rectangular or triangular shape which is
hung from a flagpole.
   FLEA MARKET/SWAP MEET. An indoor or outdoor premises where the main use is
the sale of new or used household goods, personal effects, tools, art work,
appliances, and similar merchandise, objects, or equipment in small quantities,
in stalls, lots, parcels, or in bulk, for the use, sale or consumption by the
immediate purchaser in a building, open air, or partly enclosed booths or
stalls not within a wholly enclosed building. This definition does not include
temporary retail sidewalk sales, garage sales, estate sales or special events.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map on which delineates areas
of special flood hazards and risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land areas which are susceptible to being flooded.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO. The numerical value obtained through dividing the gross
floor area of a building or buildings by the total area of such lot or parcel
of land.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The sums of the areas of one or more floors of a
building, including basements, attics, and penthouses, as measured from the
exterior faces of the walls for each floor of each building. It does not
include cellars, unenclosed porches, or attics not used for human occupancy, or
any floor space in accessory buildings or in the main building intended and
designed for the parking of motor vehicles or any such floor space intended and
designed for accessory heating and ventilating equipment. It shall include the
horizontal area at each floor level devoted to stairwells and elevator shafts.
   FLOOR AREA, NET. The total of all interior useable floor areas of a building
measured from the interior face of interior walls, excluding stairwells and
elevators shafts, unenclosed porches, public corridors, public toilets, light
shafts, equipment rooms and vertical equipment chases.
   FORCE MAJEURE. An event that results from the elements of nature, not
created by humans.
   FRONTAGE. The length of the front property line of a lot or tract of land
abutting a public street, road, highway, or rural right-of-way.
   FRONTAGE, BUILDING. The length of the exterior building wall facing the main
access street, highway or road.
   GABLE. A typically triangular section of a wall created when the edges of
two roof pitches intersect.
   GARAGE/ESTATE SALE. A sale of household items on a residential lot and
incidental to that home.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building devoted partially or wholly to the
parking or temporary storage of a motor vehicle owned by the occupants of the
home on that same property.
   GARAGE, SIDE ENTRY. A garage that does not directly face the street and the
entrance is roughly parallel, rather than perpendicular, to the side property
line.
   GENERAL PERSONAL SERVICES. An establishment that provides non-medical care,
advice, maintenance, repair, treatment, or similar semi-technical, technical,
or experienced assistance, other than the practice of a profession and
wholesale or retail sale of goods, such as: shoe repair, beauty and barber
shops, tanning salons, and dry-cleaners, with or without a drive-thru.
   GENERAL PLAN. The general plan of the City of Page, and all elements
thereof.
   GENERAL RECREATION, INDOOR. An establishment offering recreation and
amusements to the public within an enclosed building. This includes arcades,
bowling alleys, billiard parlors, bingo parlors, laser tag parlors, and similar
types of uses.
   GENERAL RECREATION, OUTDOOR. Outdoor recreational uses that are lighted or
unlighted, such as amusement parks, miniature golf courses, batting cages,
motocross courses, water parks or slides, and other similar types of uses.
   GLARE. The sensation produced by a bright light in the visual field that is
significantly brighter than that to which the eyes are adjusted, causing
discomfort and/or loss in visual acuity.
   GRADE, AVERAGE. The average of the finished ground level at the center of
all walls of a building or measured from the sidewalk if it is within five feet
of the building.
   GROSS LEASABLE AREA. The total floor area designed for tenant occupancy and
basements, mezzanines, and upper floors, if applicable, shown in square feet
and measured from exterior wall faces.
   GROUP CARE, HOME. A single dwelling unit to accommodate a group of no more
than six unrelated persons, excluding staff, who do not have a disability (see
"resident care home" for disabled persons), and who don't live together as a
single housekeeping unit. Group home facilities may or may not be licensed.
This definition shall include shelter homes for people at risk and halfway/
correctional/ transitional facilities but shall not include resident care homes
nor foster care homes as defined by ARS.
   HARDSCAPE. That part of a building's grounds consisting of structures, such
as plazas, retaining walls and sidewalks, made with materials such as concrete,
asphalt and/or sidewalk pavers.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any substance depicted as being hazardous to living
organisms.
   HEALTH CARE/MEDICAL FACILITY OR CLINIC. The same general definition as a
hospital except a heliport may not be available, and patients are not kept
overnight except for emergencies.
   HEAVY RENTAL, OUTDOOR. Retail establishments selling or renting
construction, farm, or other heavy equipment, such as heavy construction, earth
moving and large farm equipment.
   HOME OCCUPATION. A commercial business conducted entirely within a dwelling
or accessory structure in a residential district without any adverse impact on
the residential neighborhood.
   HOSPITAL. A public or private facility to primarily accommodate sick,
injured or infirm persons which offers multiple medical offices and outpatient
care services and overnight stays which may also include a heliport and related
facilities and parking.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. A facility with continuous on-site management with nine or
more sleeping rooms that are intended to be occupied by guests for a fee.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Any material that prevents the infiltration of
stormwater into previously undeveloped pervious surfaced land. Semi-pervious
surfaces shall include graveled driveways and parking areas or similar.
   INDOOR STORAGE (BOAT, RV). An indoor storage facility where boats/
recreational vehicles are stored for more than 72 hours.
   INGRESS/EGRESS. Ingress is an access or entry, while egress is an exit.
   INSTRUCTIONAL SERVICES or TRADE SCHOOL. A specialized instructional
establishment that provides on-site training of business, artistic, or
commercial trade schools that teach various trades such as carpentry, welding,
plumbing and so on. Examples include, but are not limited to, fine arts
schools, computer instructional services, and driving schools.
   LANDSCAPE AND IRRIGATION PLAN. A plan drawn to-scale on 24"x 36" paper
showing the detailed layout of the landscaping and irrigation system, including
the plants and materials to be used.
   IRRIGATION SYSTEM. The underground landscape watering system comprised of
pipes, fittings, valves and other applicable equipment designed and installed
to keep landscaping vibrant and alive.
   KITCHENETTE. An area designed and used for preparing food with a sink,
refrigerator and a 110V electrical outlet for a hot plate or microwave oven.
   LANDSCAPING. The combination of xeriscape vegetation such as trees, shrubs,
ground cover, and other organic and inorganic materials needed to comply with
the landscaping requirements defined in §
152.057 for a commercial or multi-family development. This may also include
public art, water features, plazas, patios, decorative courtyards and lighting.
   LATTICE TOWER. Any tower that uses three or more poles to form the base with
lattice bracing to connect the poles and increase structural support for cell
towers and other such uses.
   LIGHTING PLAN. A plan drawn to scale on a 24"x 36" paper showing the layout
and details of lighting and photo metrics, including the type and location of
all materials used.
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, horses, sheep, goats, fowl and other farm/ranch animals,
excluding domesticated dogs, cats, birds, fish and other household pets.
   LOT. A single tract or parcel of land having frontage onto a public or
private street or road right-of-way described as such, that is recorded or
shall be recorded with the Coconino County Assessor's office as a survey map or
by metes-and-bounds for purposes of sale, lease or separate use in a legal
manner pursuant to all state, county and city requirements for the approved
development and use of that property.
   LOT AREA. The total area in acreage or square feet within the boundary lines
of a lot.
   LOT AREA, NET. The total area within the property boundaries of the lot,
excluding any public or private streets or highways, but including off-street
parking areas, easements and other accessory uses.
   LOT COVERAGE. The total area of a lot covered by the foundation footprint of
any building, accessory building, or structure, not including the roof
overhang.
   LOT DEPTH. The distance or averaged distance measured between front and rear
property lines.
   LOT LINE, FRONT.
      (1)   The property boundary lot line between the lot and the public or
private street.
      (2)   For comer lots fronting onto two public and/or private streets, the
front property boundary lot line is between the lot and the side which has the
shortest street frontage. The property owner may elect to have the front
property boundary lot line be the lot line on the street side which has the
longest street frontage, if approved by the Director and recorded with the
Coconino County Recorder's office.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The property boundary lot line generally opposite or
parallel to the front lot line, except in a through or double-frontage lot. If
the rear lot-line is less than ten feet long or comes to a point at the rear,
said rear lot-line shall be a line not less than ten feet long, lying wholly
within the lot, approximately parallel to the front property boundary line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line other than the front or rear lot-line.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines, if parallel
to each other. If the side property lines are not parallel, the width of the
lot shall be the average of three measurements taken between the side property
boundary lines at the front, middle and rear of the lot.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot having public or private street frontage that intersects
on two sides of the lot.
   LOT, FLAG. A lot where the wider buildable area is located to the rear of
the lot (the flag), and the narrow unbuildable area is located to the front and
which abuts the street right-of-way (the flag pole).
   LOT, INTERIOR. Any lot other than a comer lot, but including a through/
double frontage lot.
   LOT, THROUGH/DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot with street frontage on the front and
the rear property boundary lines, where the front lot line is the one granted
street access. The street frontage lot line denied street access is the rear
property boundary line, and access to that street is prohibited.
   MAINTENANCE. The repair, painting, trimming, pruning, watering and other on-
going activities associated with providing an attractive site appearance and
safe buildings and structures.
   MANSARD. A sloped roof or roof-like facade architecturally comparable to a
building wall.
   MANUFACTURED HOME, PARK. A site with required improvements and utilities for
the long term parking of manufactured homes, which may include services and
facilities for the residents.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A subdivision designed for residential use
with lots for sale where the residence is to be predominantly manufactured
homes.
   MANUFACTURING, HEAVY. An establishment engaged in the indoor and/or outdoor
manufacture or compounding of raw materials which may include the storage of
highly flammable, toxic or explosive materials needed for manufacturing.
Examples include, but are not limited to: refining or initial processing of raw
materials; rolling, drawing, or extruding of metals; asphalt batch plants;
sawmills; meat slaughter and packing houses; and manufacture or packaging of
any highly flammable, toxic and/or explosive products, and cement or cement
products.
   MANUFACTURING, LIGHT. An establishment engaged in the indoor manufacture,
predominantly from previously prepared materials, of finished products or
parts, including processing, fabrication, assembly, treatment, and packaging of
such products, and sales, distribution and indoor and/or outdoor storage of
such products, but excluding basic industrial processing. Examples include, but
are not limited to: computer, electronics, airplane, automobile or truck
assembly, remodeling, or repair; bottling works; brewery or distillery, boat
building, machine or blacksmith shops; furniture or woodworking shops,
metalworking or welding shops; paint shops; and printing, binding and
publishing shops.
   MARKET GARDEN. A lot or any portion thereof, managed and maintained by a
person, for growing and harvesting, farming, or other which contributes to the
production of agricultural, floricultural, or horticultural products for
recreation or direct local consumption rather than commercial processing.
   MARQUEE. A permanent roof-like structure or canopy of rigid materials
supported by and extending from the facade of a building.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA. Means all parts of the genus cannabis whether growing or
not, and the seed of such plants that may be administered to treat or alleviate
a qualifying patient's debilitating medical condition or symptoms associated
with the patient's debilitating medical condition.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA CULTIVATION or DISPENSARY.
      (1)   Cultivation. The process by which a person, including a caregiver
or dispensary, grows a marijuana plant. A facility shall mean a building,
structure or premises used for the cultivation or storage of medical marijuana
that is physically separate and off-site from a medical marijuana dispensary.
      (2)   Dispensary. A non-profit entity defined in A.R.S. § 36-2801(11),
that sells, distributes, transmits, gives, dispenses, or otherwise provides
medical marijuana to qualifying patients.
      (3)   Infusion facility. A facility that incorporates medical marijuana
(cannabis spp.) by the means of cooking, blending, or incorporation into
consumable, edible or transdermal goods.
      (4)   Qualifying patient. A person who has been diagnosed by a physician
as having a debilitating medical condition as defined in A.R.S. § 36-2801-13.
   MICROBREWERY, CRAFT DISTILLERY or TASTING ROOM.
      (1)   Microbrewery or Craft Distillery. A facility for the brewing of
beer or distilling of alcohol for onsite consumption as well as wholesale and
retail sale, subject to state licensing requirements. Food and/or other
alcoholic beverages may also be served.
      (2)   Tasting Room. A facility for alcoholic beverage tasting and retail
sales of related merchandise to customers who are physically present at the
tasting room, subject to state licensing requirements.
   MODIFICATION/ALTERATION. Any modification that changes the exterior
architectural appearance or materials of a structure or object. Alteration
includes changes in exterior surfaces, changes in materials, additions,
remodels, demolitions, and relocation of buildings or structures, but excludes
ordinary maintenance and repairs.
   MOVIE THEATER. An indoor theater for showing motion pictures.
   MULTI-TENANTED BUILDING. A building complex or shopping center containing
multiple businesses on the same site, with the same points of site ingress, and
egress.
   MUSEUM, CULTURAL FACILITY. Any permanent institution for the collection and
display of objects of art or science, sponsored by a public or quasi-public
agency and open to the public.
   NATURE PRESERVES, TRAILS and TRAILHEADS. An area that preserves or protects
desert lands, associated endangered species, washes, escarpments, rock
outcroppings, critical environmental features, viewsheds, or other natural
elements. Such areas may include trails and trailheads.
   NEWSPAPER, GENERAL CIRCULATION. A newspaper published for the dissemination
of local news and intelligence of a general character, which has a bona fide
subscription list of paying subscribers, and has been established, printed, and
published at regular intervals in the state, county or city.
   NIGHTCLUB. An establishment dispensing alcoholic beverages for consumption
on premises where dancing and indoor musical entertainment is permitted.
   NON-CHARTERED FINANCIAL INSTITUTION (CHECK-CASHING FACILITIES). Any person
or establishment in the business of cashing checks or accepting deferred
deposits for a fee, service charge, or other consideration. This does not
include licensed banks, credit unions, development corporations, mortgage
brokers, pawn brokers, insurance companies or other similar type uses.
   NURSERY, COMMERCIAL. A retail establishment selling plants purchased
wholesale from off- site, including other items commonly sold at a plant
nursery that are stored inside a solid or screened structure. The sale or
outdoor storage of bulk items, and/or commercial vehicles or heavy equipment is
prohibited.
   NURSING HOME. Establishment with individual rooms supported by communal
facilities (such as kitchen, dining, living, and recreation) that provides 24-
hour medical, convalescent or chronic care to individuals who, by reason of
advanced age, chronic illness or infirmity, are unable to care for themselves,
and is licensed as a skilled nursing facility by the State of Arizona,
including but not limited to, rest homes and convalescent hospitals, but not
assisted living center or home, hospitals or clinics.
   OCCUPANCY, CERTIFICATE OF (C of O). A document issued by the Chief Building
Official (CBO) or Director allowing the occupancy or use of a building and
certifying that the structure or use has been constructed and used in
compliance with all the applicable codes of the city. A Temporary Certificate
of Occupancy (TCO) may be issued prior to the C of O typically for periods up
to 90 days as determined by staff, which allows for temporary occupancy to
stock the shelves and/or install furniture, before the C of O is issued for
full occupancy.
   OCCUPANCY, CHANGE IN. The replacement of an existing use with an approved
different use.
   OFF-SITE. Not located on the property to be developed.
   OFF-STREET. Land located outside of any public or private street rights-of-
way, typically within the confines of the property boundary lines.
   OFFICE, BUSINESS or PROFESSIONAL. An establishment that provides executive,
management, administrative, or professional services, but not the sale of
merchandise unless incidental to a permitted use, not including a medical
office or clinic. Examples include real estate, insurance, employment, travel,
law, architecture, accounting, broadcasting, call centers, and/or similar types
of offices.
   ON-SITE. Located within the confines of the property boundary lines.
   OPAQUE/OPACITY. Means something that has the visual characteristics of a
solid wall that cannot clearly be seen through.
   OPEN SPACE. An area intended to provide space, light and air, designed for
either environmental, scenic, or recreational purposes, which may include, but
is not limited to, lawns, decorative planting, walkways, active/passive
recreation areas, playgrounds, swimming pools and water courses. This shall not
include driveways, parking lots, or other surfaces designed or intended for
vehicular travel.
   OUTDOOR DISPLAY. The outdoor placement of goods, equipment, merchandise or
exhibits at a location easily visible to the public.
   OUTDOOR MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT. Any outdoor musical entertainment projected
by natural or amplified means for entertainment purposes.
   OUTDOOR SALES. The outdoor display of products or services for retail or
wholesale purchase.
   OUTDOOR STORAGE. The outdoor placement of any items in a set location for
more than 24 hours.
   OUTDOOR VENDING. Any outdoor vending by any non-stationary device, utilized
for temporarily displaying, exhibiting, selling or offering for sale any food,
beverages or merchandise. This shall not include short duration, primarily non-
profit uses such as lemonade and Girl Scout cookie stands or outdoor display
and sales areas as specified in §
152.046(F)(8).
   OUTDOOR STORAGE (BOAT, RV STORAGE). An outdoor facility where boats and/or
RVs are stored for more than 72 hours.
   OWNER. A person recorded as such on the records of the County Assessor, or a
person who has been granted written authorization by the owner to act on his or
her behalf.
   PARAPET. The extension of a false front or wall above a roofline.
   PARKING AISLES. That portion of the parking area consisting of the driving
lanes providing access to the individual parking spaces.
   PARKING AREA. That portion of a lot that is used by vehicles for access,
circulation, parking and loading and unloading. It comprises the total of
circulation areas, loading and unloading areas, and parking areas (spaces and
aisles).
   PARKING LOT. An area not within a building where motor vehicles may be
stored for the purposes of temporary, daily, or overnight off-street parking.
   PARKING LOTS and PARKING STRUCTURES. A paved area used for the sole purpose
of parking motor vehicles or a structure designed with one or more levels
partially or fully enclosed, used for the parking of motor vehicles. The
facility may be above, below, or partially below ground. This use does not
include private carports or garages.
   PARKING, OFF-STREET. Marked or unmarked parking located within a parcel and
outside a private or public right-of-way.
   PARKING, ON-STREET. Marked or unmarked parking located within a private/
public right-of-way.
   PARKING, SHARED. The agreed use of parking areas on two or more properties
for joint use by the businesses on those properties which requires the prior
approval from the Director.
   PARKING SPACE, COMPACT. Any parking space measuring at least eight feet wide
by 15 feet long, so located to permit parking for a compact automobile.
   PARKING SPACE, STANDARD. A designated space in the parking area to park one
vehicle. See parking space dimensions based on angle of parking in §
152.056.
   PARKING SPACE, TANDEM. Parking where one vehicle parks behind another where
the back vehicle must be moved so the front vehicle can leave.
   PERMITTED USE. Any use allowed-by-right in a zoning district.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, social or fraternal
organization, corporation, estates, trust, receiver, syndicated, branch or
government or any other group or combination of groups acting as a unit.
   PETS, HOUSEHOLD. Any domesticated animals, such as dogs, cats, birds,
reptiles, rabbits, fish and amphibians commonly kept as pets for personal
enjoyment and not for breeding or commercial purposes.
   PREMISES. Any property, structures, off-street parking, points of access,
common areas and other appurtenances which allows the parcel to function as a
whole.
   PRINCIPAL (PRIMARY) USE. A use that fulfills the primary function of an
establishment, institution, household, or other entity that occupies at least
70% of the gross floor area.
   PRIVATE STREET. Privately owned, maintained and recorded property designated
and improved as a street public right-of-way for pedestrian, bicycle and
vehicular use.
   PROHIBITED USE. A use not listed as permitted or conflicting with any listed
permitted use.
   RANCHING. A commercial use for the keeping of livestock and necessary
accessory equipment and uses required for the operation of the business.
Allowed uses include; grazing livestock; animal husbandry; equine stables for
riding, boarding, breeding, training, and lessons; the sale of livestock;
rodeos, 4-H and other public or youth-related activities. This use does not
include intensive animal operations, such as dairy, poultry and egg farming;
feed lots or uses of a similar nature.
   RECORDED PLAT. A survey or final plat bearing any certificates of approval
required by this chapter and the Arizona Revised Statues, duly recorded in the
Coconino County Recorder's office.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle other than a mobile home designed for
temporary dwelling or entertainment and recreational use which is either self-
propelled, mounted on, or towed behind another vehicle. Examples include, but
are not limited to, travel, camping and fifth-wheel trailers, truck campers,
motor homes or vans, boats, watercraft, and off-road vehicles and their
trailers.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. A site with required services, facilities and
utilities to accommodate short and long-term recreational vehicle parking for
the residents.
   RECYCLING CENTER. A facility which recycles recoverable resources such as
newspapers, glassware, plastics, and metals to be reprocessed and treated so
they can again be used for production, where some outdoor storage may take
place. This facility is not a junk or salvage yard, but it could be approved
for those uses in the Industrial Park Zoning District.
   RELIGIOUS ASSEMBLY. A facility used primarily for assembly and meetings for
religious activities. Accessory uses may include cultural events, parking,
staff housing, and group living facilities such as convents.
   RESIDENT CARE HOME. Housing for a group of no more than six unrelated
persons living in a dwelling due to a physical or mental disability (see "group
home" for persons without disabilities) foster care homes or sober living/
substance abuse treatment centers as specifically defined by the Arizona
Revised Statutes, and may include staff who may or may not live in the
dwelling, who provide support services, including but not limited to domestic,
medical, rehabilitation, or other similar services, but shall not include
halfway/correctional transitional facilities or shelter homes for people at
risk.
   RESORT, CABINS, LODGES. One or more buildings containing more than five
dwelling units and/or guest rooms that may provide outdoor recreational
activities such as golf, horseback riding, swimming, shuffleboard, tennis, and
similar activities. A resort may furnish services customary to hotels, such as
a restaurant, cocktail lounge, and convention facilities.
   RESOURCE EXTRACTION/EXTRACTIVE DRILLING AND MINING. The on-site extraction
or mining of surface or subsurface minerals or other natural resources, such as
quarries, borrow pits, sand and gravel operations, oil and gas extraction, and
other similar extraction and mining operations.
   RESTAURANTS. Establishments providing on-premises preparation, consumption,
retail sales, and service of food and beverages, with or without a drive-thru.
   RETAIL, GENERAL. The retail sale or rental of merchandise not specifically
listed under another use classification which typically provides goods for
immediate purchase and removal by the consumer. Examples include, but are not
limited to: pharmacies, jewelry stores, bait shop, bakeries, bookstores, and
florists, with or without a drive-thru.
   RETAIL, LARGE/BIG-BOX/ANCHOR. Same as a Retail, General establishment which
occupies more than 25,000 square feet of floor area, such as grocery,
appliance, electronic, department and furniture stores, membership-based retail
stores, and factory outlet stores.
   RETAIL, SMOKE/VAPE SHOP. Has a principle use as a cigar shop, hookah lounge,
head shop, electronic cigarette or other retail establishment where the primary
activity is the sale of tobacco and smoking related goods/paraphernalia.
   RETAIL, PAWN SHOP. An establishment whose principal business activity
involves advancing money on the security of pledged goods or purchasing
tangible personal property on the condition it could be redeemed or repurchased
by the seller.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A public way established or dedicated for public purposes by
duly recorded plat, deed, grant, governmental authority, or by operation of the
law, which may be publicly or privately owned and maintained.
   SATELLITE DISH ANTENNA. A round, parabolic antenna that receives signals
from satellites.
   SCHOOL, BOARDING. Private education institutions meeting the requirements of
the State of Arizona that include group living quarters for a student body or
religious order, that does not include degree-granting colleges or
universities.
   SCHOOL, PUBLIC or PRIVATE K-8. Public or private facilities for primary
general academic education consistent with academic requirements of the State
of Arizona, including kindergarten through junior high school, and including
accessory facilities traditionally associated with K-8 schools.
   SCHOOL, PUBLIC or PRIVATE 9-12. Public or private facilities for secondary
high schools having curricula of general academic education consistent with the
academic requirements of the State of Arizona. This includes accessory
facilities traditionally associated with high schools.
   SCREENING. A wall, fence, hedge, informal planting, or berm, provided for
the purpose of buffering a building or activity from abutting properties,
neighboring areas or a street.
   SECTION. A section of this code, unless some other code or statute is
specifically referenced.
   SELF-STORAGE, INDOOR. One or more buildings with controlled access that
contains varying sizes of individual, compartmentalized, and controlled access
garages, stalls or lockers for storage of customers' property, which does not
include any type of boat or RV storage.
   SERVICE STATION/CONVENIENCE STORE. Establishments engaged in the retail
sales of motor fuels, that may also sell propane gas and convenience store
goods and services, which are typically in buildings less than 5,000 square
feet.
   SETBACK. The minimum required distance between the building and the property
boundary lines.
   SIGHT VISIBILITY TRIANGLE/SIGHT TRIANGLE. The area of visibility on a street
corner to allow for safe operations of vehicles, pedestrians, and cyclists in
the proximity of intersecting streets, rail lines, sidewalks, and bicycle
paths.
   SIGN. Any visual element(s) including words or symbols, placed to attract
attention or convey information, including any device providing identification,
advertising or directional information for a specific business, service,
product, person, organization, place, or building, including graphic devices
such as logos, colored fascia, banners, balloons, streamers, inflatable
structures, exterior merchandise displays, projected picture signs, holographic
projection signs and other attention-getting media and devices, with or without
interior or exterior lighting.
   SIGN, A-FRAME. A temporary sign supported by its own frame when positioned
upright in a manner that forms an "A" when in use; AKA a sandwich or tent sign.
   SIGN, ABANDONED. A sign no longer in use or no longer associated with the
location, product or activity conducted on the same premises as the sign.
   SIGN, ADVERTISING. A temporary or permanent sign which includes any copy or
graphics relating to any business, service, product, person, organization or
place, in addition to simple identification.
   SIGN, ANIMATED. A permanent sign with motion, light or color changes, or the
illusion of motion.
   SIGN AREA. The area of a sign face, either changeable or permanent, as
measured in square feet.
   SIGN, WALL. A permanent sign directly attached to the facade/face of a
building.
   SIGN, AWNING/CANOPY/MARQUE. A permanent sign painted, installed, attached,
or otherwise applied to or located directly on an awning, canopy, marque,
building overhang or other similar structure.
   SIGN, BANNER. A temporary sign made of fabric, cloth, or other pliable
material without a rigid structural support or internal illumination on which
advertising copy or graphics may be displayed.
   SIGN, BILLBOARD. A sign or structure, other than a temporary sign,
portraying information or directing attention to a business, activity,
commodity, service, entertainment, or message that is not conducted, sold or
offered nor does it pertain to the same parcel on which the sign or structure
is located.
   SIGN, CABINET. An enclosed case to hold internal components and/or internal
lighting, with one side holding the sign face.
   SIGN, CHANGEABLE COPY. A permanent sign constructed to hold individual
letters or text mounted in or on a track, which is typically used as directory
signs.
   SIGN, CONSTRUCTION. A temporary sign erected on the construction premises
placed during the period of construction displaying the entities involved with
the project, as determined by the applicant.
   SIGN COPY. Any graphic image, symbol, text or numerals used for the
advertisement or message.
   SIGN, DEVELOPMENT. A permanent sign situated on the subject property under
development, where it is usually located at or near the entry and which may be
internally or externally illuminated.
   SIGN, DIRECTIONAL. A sign providing maneuvering guidance for the purpose of
promoting the safe flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic (i.e. "one way",
entrance", "exit", etc.).
   SIGN, DIRECTORY. A sign listing the names and locations of the various
tenants or activities within a building, multi-tenant development or group of
buildings. See Sign, Changeable Copy.
   SIGN, DRIVE-THROUGH. A sign oriented to vehicle occupants using a drive-
through at an establishment that transacts business through a window, with or
without ordering capability.
   SIGN, ELECTRONIC MESSAGE. A permanent sign that uses computer-generated or
electronic components to change advertising copy, messages or color, including
signs that flip or rotate.
   SIGN FACE. The area or display surface which contains the sign message or
advertisement.
   SIGN, FASCIA. A sign affixed to a horizontal surface at the edge of a
projecting roof or overhang.
   SIGN, FLASHING. A permanent sign with an intermittent, repetitive or
flashing light source.
   SIGN, FREESTANDING/MONUMENT. A permanent sign that has its own supporting
structure independent of the building or business it identifies.
   SIGN, GAS-FILLED. Any sign that uses neon, argon, krypton or any similar gas
to illuminate transparent or translucent tubing or other materials, or any
similar gas lighting on or near the exterior of a building or window.
   SIGN, HEIGHT. Refer to §
152.058(B)(4)(a).
   SIGN, IDENTIFICATION. A sign that contains only the name of the business,
person, organization, place, or building at that location.
   SIGN, ILLUMINATED. A permanent sign, that is lighted, either externally or
internally.
   SIGN, INFLATABLE. An inflatable device or a sign that is displayed, printed
or painted on the surface of a balloon or any other form of inflatable
background used to attract attention or advertise a message, location or event.
   SIGN, LEGAL NON-CONFORMING. Any permanent sign in existence or under
construction, as of the effective date of this chapter, which does not conform
to the provisions of this chapter, but which was or is being constructed or
maintained in compliance with all previous regulations.
   SIGN, MENU BOARD. A permanent sign with a changeable face oriented to the
drive-through lane of a business that advertises the menu items or services
available from the drive-through window.
   SIGN, MULTI-TENANT BUILDING IDENTIFICATION. A permanent sign for a building
complex or center that contains multiple businesses that share the same site
and use common points of vehicular site ingress and egress.
   SIGN, OFF-SITE/OFF-PREMISE. Any permanent or temporary sign that displays
any message or advertisement for something that does not relate to the premises
upon which the sign is located.
   SIGN, PERMANENT. Any sign affixed to the ground with a foundation or painted
on or anchored to a building, wall or other permanent structure to achieve a
lasting and enduring condition and location.
   SIGN, POLITICAL. A sign that meets the conditions of A.R.S. § 16-1019.
   SIGN, PORTABLE. Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or a
permanent structure.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. A permanent sign that extends more than 12 inches from a
building wall over a property line or right-of-way line.
   SIGN, PYLON. A freestanding sign constructed with a support structure that
is more than 10% of the height of the total sign and less than 90% of the width
of the sign. The support structure shall not be included in the sign area
computation.
   SIGN, READER PANEL. A permanent, non-electronic sign only for public
facility land uses that conveys schedules of events, rules, regulations,
announcements, or similar messages.
   SIGN, ROOF. Any sign affixed on, above or over the roof of a building that
projects above the highest point of a roofline, wall, a mansard roof peak, or
top of fascia of a hipped roof, is prohibited.
   SIGN, SHINGLE. A wall mounted or hanging sign, located under a covered
porch, walkway, extended roof, or other similar structure.
   SIGN, STREET ADDRESS. A permanent sign with numbers/letters to identify a
property address.
   SIGN, SUBDIVISION ENTRY MONUMENT. A freestanding sign located at the primary
entrance(s) to a residential subdivision.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. Any sign not permanently affixed or attached to a structure
or the ground intended to display a message or advertisement for a non-
permanent period of time.
   SIGN, TWO-PART. A permanent sign composed of two sign panels, at an angle
equal to or more than 45 degrees, whose total sign area shall be computed from
the total area of both panels.
   SIGN, WALKER. A person who wears, holds or balances a portable sign.
   SIGN, WALL MOUNTED. A permanent sign fastened to any vertical portion of a
building.
   SIGN, WINDOW. Any sign, pictures, symbols or combination thereof, designed
to communicate information about an activity, business, commodity, event, sale
or service that is affixed to, or located within six feet of a windowpane, that
can be easily read from the exterior of a building.
   SINGLE HOUSEKEEPING UNIT. Any number of related, or up to six unrelated,
persons living as the functional equivalent of a traditional family, within a
single dwelling unit.
   SITE BUILT. A building, structure or dwelling constructed on site, in
conformance with all uniform codes in force at the time of construction. This
definition does not include buildings, structures or dwellings relocated and
placed on site.
   SITE PLAN. A plan drawn to scale, showing the boundaries of a site and the
location of all buildings, structures, uses, principal site development
features, or any other information required by this chapter, which is proposed
for a specific development.
   SLOPE. An included ground surface, the inclination of which is expressed as
a ratio of horizontal distance to vertical distance.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY/C.O.W. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of not more than six
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all of the antenna's exposed elements could fit within an
imaginary enclosure of not more than six cubic feet in volume.
      (2)   All other associated wireless equipment is cumulatively not more
than 28 cubic feet in volume. The following types of associated ancillary
equipment are not included in calculating equipment volume:
         (a)   An electric meter;
         (b)   Concealment elements;
         (c)   A telecommunications demarcation box;
         (d)   Ground-based enclosures;
         (e)   Grounding equipment;
         (f)   A power transfer switch;
         (g)   A cut-off switch; and
         (h)   Vertical cable runs for the connection of power and other
services.
   SOCIAL SERVICE FACILITY. Facilities providing supportive services for
targeted groups on a less-than-24-hour basis. Examples of services provided are
counseling, meal programs, personal storage lockers, showers, instructional
programs, television rooms, and meeting spaces which is distinguished from
hospitals, nursing homes, and other related facilities that provide 24-hour or
overnight care.
   SOLAR ARRAY/GENERATION FACILITY. An electrical energy collection and
generation plant comprised of one or more freestanding, ground-mounted devices
that capture solar energy and convert it to electrical energy for use by an
off-site electric utility provider. A solar generation station is also known as
a solar plant, solar generation plant, solar farm, concentrated solar power
plant, solar power plant, or solar thermal power plat (if non-photovoltaic).
   SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT. A permit issued by the Parks and Recreation Director
for any fair, parade, march, procession, festival, street dance, circus,
carnival, concert, performance, rodeo, race, Christmas tree sales or other
temporary activity using outdoor spaces and inviting public participation
(with/without charge) on public or private property. There are two types of
special events: civic and commercial.
   STORE/STAY QUARTERS. A dwelling unit attached or part of a principal indoor
storage (boat, RV) building or unit that may be used as a temporary residence
by the owner, subject to the provisions of §
152.046(F)(3).
   STREET. A publicly or privately-owned and maintained right-of-way, dedicated
to public use, which provides vehicular and pedestrian access to adjacent
properties.
   STREET, ARTERIAL. A street designed to carry large volumes of traffic and
provides for efficient vehicular movement between large areas of the city as
designated on the Functional Street Classification Map in the city's general
plan.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. Streets that typically conduct and distribute traffic
between other local and arterial streets as designated on the Functional Street
Classification Map in the city's general plan.
   STREET, PRIVATE. A privately-owned and maintained street intended for local
vehicular traffic in a gated or otherwise controlled or closed-off community,
subdivision or cul de sac.
   STREET WIDTH. The width of the street measured from back of curb on both
sides of the street.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting components of a
building, such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or
any complete rebuilding of the roof or exterior walls, foundations, footers or
stem walls.
   SUBSTANCE ABUSE DETOXIFICATION/TREATMENT CENTER. An inpatient or outpatient
health facility staffed by medical professionals providing therapy and/or
rehabilitation for substance- dependent individuals. Methadone distribution
centers are included.
   TEMPORARY USE or BUILDING. A use/structure permitted under this code for a
limited period.
   TOTAL SIGN AREA. The entire area of the sign face upon which sign copy and/
or imagery may be placed, excluding any supporting structure.
   TOUR SERVICES. Businesses primarily engaged in providing recreation and
other activities for tourists and residents, including, but not limited to:
jeep, helicopter, hiking, biking, equestrian, off-highway vehicle, and rafting
tours.
   TRAILER, COMMERCIAL. A container or flatbed trailer on wheels and towed by a
motor vehicle, used to transport items related to a business and often used as
an advertising device for that business.
   TRUCK STOP. A commercial facility whose primary purpose is to provide
service and maintenance to diesel powered trucks and tractor trailers,
including bays for truck washing and fuel dispensing, but excluding the
overhaul of large diesel trucks or engines. Other facilities may also be
present, such as convenience markets, motels and restaurants.
   UNDERLYING DISTRICT. The base zoning district classification applying to a
group of properties upon which additional overlay district regulations are
superimposed.
   USE. The principal purpose for which a lot or the main building is designed,
arranged, or intended to be used, occupied, or maintained.
   USE, ACCESSORY. A use customarily incidental and subordinate to the
principal use.
   USE, CONDITIONAL. Any use which may be established in the particular zoning
district in which it is allowed only upon meeting the conditions and
limitations as prescribed by this chapter.
   USE, PERMITTED. A use which is lawfully established in a particular district
as a use-by-right, which conforms with specified development standards.
   UTILITY FACILITY and SERVICE YARD, MAJOR. A regional/area utility service
that typically has employees on the site on an ongoing basis, such as, but are
not limited to: wastewater and water treatment plants, reservoirs, power
plants, and maintenance yards.
   UTILITY FACILITY, MINOR. A utility service that typically supports the
immediate vicinity, where employees are typically not on site on an ongoing
basis, such as, but are not limited to: electric transformer and gas regulator
stations; telephone exchange buildings; well, water, and sewer pumping
stations; water storage tanks and pressure regulating stations.
   VACATION HOME RENTALS. Vacation home rentals are permitted within the city
limits as allowed and regulated by the Arizona Revised Statutes. Vacation
rentals do not include a unit that is used for any nonresidential use,
including retail, restaurant, banquet space, event center or other similar use.
   VEHICLE, INOPERATIVE. A vehicle that cannot be operated lawfully on a public
roadway for any reason other than the lack of current vehicle registration, or
that cannot move under its own power.
   VEHICLE STACKING/STORAGE. Generally refers to a drive-through scenarios
where the first vehicle is unable to move without the second vehicle also
moving. See §
152.056.
   VISIBLE. Capable of being seen by a person of normal height and visual
acuity walking or driving on or next to a public road.
   WASTE FACILITY, LANDFILL. A planned and approved method or system of waste
disposal in which the waste is disposed or buried in layers, compacted by earth
or other approved methods, also known as sanitary landfill.
   WASTE FACILITY, TRANSFER STATION. A facility where solid waste from homes,
businesses, and industries is transferred from one type of collection vehicle
or container to another. Transfer activities are entirely within covered
structures. A transfer station is an intermediary point between the locations
of waste generation and ultimate processing or disposal. Does not include
liquid waste transfer, recycling or refining activities, hazardous or toxic
waste disposal, or solid waste disposal.
   WATCHMAN’S QUARTERS. An attached unit to a principal building that may be
used as a permanent residence for employees of businesses or property owners
when their presence is required for security purposes by the employer 24 hours
a day, subject to the provisions of §
152.046(F)(2).
   WHOLESALE ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment primarily engaged in the sale or
distribution of goods and materials in large quantity to retailers for resale
to consumers. This shall not include heavy manufacturing, resource extraction,
bulk storage of hazardous materials, or scrap or salvage operations.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY (WCF). WCF transmit analog or digital voice
or communications using electromagnetic signals via antennas, microwave dishes,
and similar devices. Supporting equipment includes buildings, shelters,
cabinets, towers, electrical equipment, generators, parking areas, and other
accessory items. Specific use types include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Tower. (Including any facility with a tower).
      (2)   Broadcasting or Recording Studio. (No tower). A building or portion
thereof used for broadcasting or recording but without a tower.
      (3)   Satellite Earth Station. A telecommunication facility that
transmits to and/or receives signals from an orbiting satellite.
      (4)   Small Wireless Facilities. See SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY.
      (5)   Transmitting Station. (No tower). Any facility that transmits or
broadcasts information but without a tower, including WCF without towers.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION, ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURE/TOWER. A structure
designed to support antennas and equipment associated with single or multiple
collocated antennas, and may include monopole, lattice or guy wire support
towers and other similar structures.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION, ATTACHED WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY. A WCF
is an antenna array attached to an existing building/structure, like, but not
limited to utility poles, water towers, with any accompanying attachment
device, plus transmission equipment.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION, CAMOUFLAGED. A wireless communication facility
that is disguised, hidden, part of an existing or proposed structure or placed
within an existing proposed structure is considered camouflaged.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION, CO-LOCATION. Use of a common tower or site by
two or more wireless license holders or by one for more than one type of
communications technology and/or placement on a structure owned or operated by
a utility or other public entity.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION, HEIGHT. When referring to a WCF, height shall
mean the distance measured from ground level to the highest point on the tower,
including the antenna.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION, SETBACKS. When referring to an antenna support
structure, setback shall mean the required distance from the structure to any
property line.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION, TEMPORARY WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY
(TEMPORARY WCF OR COW). A WCF which is placed in use for a limited period of
time, is not deployed in a permanent manner, and does not have a permanent
foundation.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION, WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY. Any facility
used for the transmission and/or reception of wireless communication services.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION, WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SERVICES. Wireless
communication services means any personal wireless services as defined in the
Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996 which includes commercial mobile, un-
licensed wireless, common carrier wireless exchange access, and similar
services that exist or may eventually be developed.
   YARD. The open space between buildings and property lines that is
unobstructed from the ground up.
   YARD, REQUIRED FRONT. The open space between the front lot line and the
front of a building between the two side lot lines. A front yard setback is
parallel to the front lot line.
   YARD, REQUIRED REAR. The open space between the rear lot line and the rear
of a building between the two side lot lines. A rear yard setback is parallel
to the rear lot line.
   YARD, REQUIRED SIDE. The open space between a side lot line and a building
that extends from the front yard to the rear yard.
   YARD, STREET SIDE. A side yard adjacent to a public or private street
extending from the front yard to the rear yard.
   ZERO LOT LINE. Where one or both sides of a building rests directly on a
side lot line.
   ZONING CLEARANCE. The approval by the Director and/or designee of a plan
that is in conformance with the zoning ordinance and any other applicable codes
of the city.
   ZONING DISTRICT. A designated area in which the same zoning regulations
apply to all properties within that district.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. Everything that is included in this chapter.
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018; Ord. 703-23, passed 3-22-2023)
APPENDICES
Appendix A: Use Standards
Permitted Use Table: Planned Development Districts
Use1 PDR PRD PDMR PDC PDI PDBP PDGC
Permitted Use Table: Planned Development Districts
Use1                                     PDR   PRD  PDMR  PDC   PDI  PDBP PDGC
Retail Sales and Rentals
Accessory uses, incidental to principal  P     CUP  P     CUP   CUP  CUP  CUP
use
Automobile sales (new and used vehicles) NP    NP   NP    P     NP   NP   NP
Boat and recreational vehicle sales      NP    NP   NP    P     NP   NP   NP
Convenience stores with gas services     NP    NP   NP    P     NP   NP   NP
Fuel (gasoline, diesel, propane) service NP    P17  NP    NP    NP   NP   NP
General merchandise                      NP    P    NP    P     NP   NP   P
Grocery stores, supermarket and bakeries NP    P    NP    P     NP   NP   NP
Home appliances and home furnishings     NP    P    NP    P     NP   NP   NP
Liquor stores                            NP    P    NP    P     NP   NP   NP
Outlet mall                              NP    P    NP    P     NP   NP   NP
Office residence                         NP    CUP  NP    CUP4  CUP4 CUP4 CUP4
Pet stores, including pet food and       NP    P    NP    P     NP   NP   NP
supplies
Second-hand merchandise in an enclosed   NP    P    NP    P     NP   NP   NP
building
Recreation and Entertainment
Adult entertainment2                     NP    CUP  NP    CUP   NP   NP   NP
Art studios                              NP    P    NP    P     NP   NP   NP
Assembly hall                            NP    P    NP    P     NP   NP   NP
Billiard hall                            NP    P    NP    P     NP   NP   NP
Bowling alley                            NP    P    NP    P     NP   NP   NP
Carnivals, circuses, and similar uses12  NP    TUP  TUP   TUP   TUP  TUP  TUP
Fraternal lodges                         NP    P    NP    P     NP   NP   NP
Golf courses                             NP    P    NP    P     NP   NP   P
Government and commercial facilities
associated with administration and       NP    P    NP    NP    NP   NP   P
management of visitor and recreation
activities
Libraries                                CUP   CUP  CUP   CUP   NP   NP   NP
Motion picture theaters (indoor) and     NP    P    NP    P     CUP  NP   NP
associated accessory retail uses
Museums                                  NP    P    NP    P     NP   NP   NP
On-site sale and consumption of alcohol  NP    P    NP    P     NP   P    P
Outdoor musical entertainment3           NP    CUP  NP    CUP   CUP  CUP  CUP
Recreation and active play areas/fields
(public and private) and associated      NP    P    CUP   CUP   NP   NP   CUP
accessory retail uses
Recreational facilities                  NP    P    NP    P     CUP  CUP  CUP
Restaurants                              NP    P11  NP    P     CUP  CUP  P11
Theaters                                 NP    P    NP    P     NP   NP   NP
Personal Services
Adult education facility                 NP    P    NP    P     NP   CUP  NP
Barbers and beauty salons                NP    P    NP    P     NP   CUP  CUP
Cemetery                                 CUP   NP   CUP   CUP   NP   NP   NP
Day care                                 CUP   P    CUP   CUP   NP   CUP  CUP
Dog grooming                             NP    CUP  NP    P     NP   NP   NP
Dog/cat boarding                         NP    NP   NP    NP    NP   NP   NP
Fitness studios                          NP    P    NP    P     NP   CUP  CUP
Interior decoration, fabrication and     NP    P    NP    P     NP   NP   NP
sales
Laundries and dry cleaners               NP    P    NP    P     NP   NP   NP
Massage therapy                          NP    P    NP    P     NP   NP   CUP
Photos studios, equipment, supplies and  NP    P    NP    P     NP   NP   NP
service copy centers
Shoe repair                              NP    P    NP    P     NP   NP   NP
Sight-seeing tours with associated       NP    P    NP    P     NP   NP   NP
parking
Veterinary clinic7                       NP    CUP  NP    CUP   NP   NP   NP
Treatment/counseling facilities          NP    NP   NP    CUP14 NP   NP   NP
Group homes                              CUP15 NP   CUP15 NP    NP   NP   NP
Professional Services and General Commercial
Ambulance service                        NP    CUP  NP    CUP   NP   NP   CUP
Appliance repair                         NP    CUP  NP    CUP   NP   NP   CUP
Auto/boat service stations (without body NP    NP   NP    P6, 9 NP   NP   NP
repair)
Banking and financial services           NP    P    NP    P     NP   NP   NP
Bus line deposits                        NP    CUP  NP    CUP   NP   NP   NP
Churches and accessory uses, including   P     NP   P     CUP   NP   NP   NP
convents and parish houses
Clinics                                  NP    P    NP    P     NP   NP   P
Indoor manufacturing                     NP    NP   NP    NP    P    NP   CUP
Indoor storage and warehousing           NP    NP   NP    P     P    NP   NP
Medical and dental facilities            NP    P    NP    P     NP   CUP  NP
Motel/hotel                              NP    P    NP    P     NP   CUP  CUP
Mortuaries                               P     NP   P     P     NP   NP   NP
Newspaper printing                       NP    CUP9 NP    CUP9  P    NP   NP
Offices                                  NP    P    NP    P     CUP  P    NP
Outdoor display                          NP    CUP  NP    CUP   NP   NP   CUP
Outdoor storage                          NP    NP   NP    CUP   CUP  NP   NP
Outlet mall                              P     P    NP    P     NP   NP   NP
Paint spray (indoor)                     NP    NP   NP    CUP   P    NP   NP
Radio and television stations            NP    CUP  NP    CUP   CUP  NP   NP
RV storage                               NP    NP   NP    NP    CUP  NP   NP
Schools: beauty, dancing, business,      NP    P    NP    P     NP   CUP  CUP
gymnastic
Self-service storage                     NP    NP   NP    CUP   CUP  NP   NP
Sign sales and limited fabrication       NP    NP   NP    CUP   P    NP   NP
Small engine/personal watercraft repair  NP    CUP  NP    CUP   P    NP   NP
(indoor)8, 9
Vehicle detailing8                       NP    NP   NP    CUP   CUP  NP   NP
Wholesale supplies                       NP    NP   NP    NP    NP   NP   NP
Residential Land Use
Single-family dwelling                   P     NP   P     NP    NP   NP   NP
Single-family manufactured homes         NP    NP   NP    NP    NP   NP   NP
Accessory buildings and uses incidental  P     CUP  P     CUP   CUP  CUP  CUP
to the principal use
Bed and breakfast homestay               P     NP   P     NP    NP   NP   NP
Dormitories                              NP    NP   NP    NP    NP   NP   NP
Duplex                                   NP    NP   P     NP    NP   NP   NP
Manufactured home park and accessory     NP    NP   NP    NP    NP   NP   NP
laundry and recreational facilities
Temporary offices, travel trailers,      CUP   CUP  CUP   NP    NP   NP   NP
construction sheds, etc.10
Apartments/multiple family               NP    P18  P     CUP   NP   NP   NP
Residential shelter/school16             CUP   NP   NP    NP    NP   NP   NP
P = Permitted NP = Not Permitted CUP = Conditional Use Permit TUP = Temporary
Use Permit
Notes:
1. Commercial uses are restricted to closed buildings unless approved with a
conditional use permit.
2. To obtain a conditional use permit, the adult entertainment business shall
not be closer than 1,000 feet from the boundaries of a residential zoning
district or from the property lines of any public or private school, public
park or playground, or church or non-commercial establishment owned or
operated by a bona fide religious organization. The business shall not be
located within 2,000 feet of any other two adult businesses and shall display
no sign visible from the exterior except for a sign identifying the business
as an adult entertainment business. The business shall exclude persons less
than 18 years of age from its premises. No materials depicting sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas shall be visible from the exterior of
the business. All distances shall be measured in a straight line, without
regard to intervening structures or objects, from the property line of the
business to the nearest property line of another adult entertainment business,
school, church, public facility, residential district or other use facility
specified in this regulation.
3. The conditional use permit will be personal to the individual and
applicable to only one location. The permit is not transferable. The permit is
subject to an annual review. Outdoor musical entertainment will not be
permitted in the public right-of-way. The entertainment will be limited to the
hours of 8:00 a.m. to 12:30 a.m. No retail or wholesale over-the-counter sale
of goods are permitted to be sold in conjunction with the entertainment, other
than the products or services being provided by the permitted business, unless
accompanied by an Arizona Transaction Privilege Tax License. The performer
will not use any flammable items, fireworks, electronic light displays, or
laser-operated device. Outdoor musical entertainment shall be restricted to
music or singing which is not excessive or disturbing to the community as
prescribed by §
130.01. If the sound is of sufficient volume and duration that it would cause
discomfort or annoyance to a reasonable person of normal sensitivities, it
shall be prohibited.
4. Before granting a CUP, the Commission shall (1) determine that the use is
incidental and subordinate to the principal use; (2) only one office residence
shall be granted per lot; (3) adequate off-street parking is provided; (4) the
accessory residence must be an integral part of the primary commercial
structure and may not exceed 50% of building floor area, with a maximum
accessory residence size of 1,000 square feet.
5. All vehicles being displayed outdoors must be screened by a three feet high
solid wall. Landscaping may be substituted for the solid wall. The landscaping
must be three feet high and three feet deep, with provisions for maintenance.
6. Service and repair within this district for boats exceeding nine feet in
width and 30 feet in length are not permitted.
7. No animals under care may be housed outside.
8. Service bay doors may not front Lake Powell Boulevard.
9. Service bay doors for service stations and repair facilities may not face
residential neighborhoods.
10. During the construction of a dwelling on a lot, but not exceeding 12
months with a valid building permit.
11. Restaurants - drive-thru service will be permitted with the requirement
that drive-thru service windows not face Highway 89, Lake Powell Boulevard or
Scenic View Road and shall be screened from roadways with solid structures
made of similar materials that match the main structure.
12. For events on city property a special events permit is required.
13. No outdoor boarding of animals. Outdoor runs permitted between 7:00 a.m.
and 7:00 p.m. only.
14. Residential uses may be permitted in conjunction with a treatment/
counseling facility. All similar facilities shall be separated by 1,000 feet,
measured in a straight line in any direction of the lot line of another such
facility.
15. No more than ten persons at any one time shall reside in the group home
and shall be subject to all applicable licenses required by city, state or
federal agencies. All similar facilities shall be separated by 1,000 feet,
measured in a straight line in any direction of the lot line of another such
facility.
16. Residential shelters shall include living quarters (long or short term),
office facilities, counseling and other directly related activities and shall
be subject to all applicable licenses required by the city, state or federal
agencies. All similar facilities shall be separated by 1,000 feet measured in
a straight line in any direction of the lot line of another such facility.
Shelters shall not include treatment facilities. Residential shelter permits
may run with the land or applicant. School facilities permitted in this
district may be public, private or charter with a curriculum similar to public
schools meeting state or federal educational requirements.
17. Fuel service stations shall not be permitted in development projects of
less than 39 acres.
Not more than one fuel service station will be permitted in development
projects of 29 acres or larger.
The fuel service station must be a part of a single development project and
fit within the overall design theme of the development and be incidental to a
larger business.
Gasoline pumps may not be located directly on Highway 89 or Lake Powell
Boulevard and must comply with the gateway area plan and other applicable
codes and regulations.
Fuel service in the PRD District shall not include truck stops or convenience
stores.
18. Apartments/multiple-family - shall be a permitted use with a requirement
that all units be tenant owned.
 
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018)
Appendix B: Development Standards
Appendix B: Development Standards
Principal Building Bulk Standards
         Minimum                                Minimum Minimum Minimum
         Lot     Minimum     Minimum  Maximu m  Front   Side    Rear    Maximum
Zoning   Size    Development Building Lot       Setback Setback Setback Building
District per     Area (sq    Size (sq Coverage2 (ft) 3, (ft) 4, (ft) 4, Height
         Unit    ft/acres)   ft)1               4, 13,  21      21      (ft)5
         (sq ft)                                29
Appendix B: Development Standards
Principal Building Bulk Standards
         Minimum                                Minimum Minimum Minimum
         Lot     Minimum     Minimum  Maximu m  Front   Side    Rear    Maximum
Zoning   Size    Development Building Lot       Setback Setback Setback Building
District per     Area (sq    Size (sq Coverage2 (ft) 3, (ft) 4, (ft) 4, Height
         Unit    ft/acres)   ft)1               4, 13,  21      21      (ft)5
         (sq ft)                                29
RE-2A    2 acres 2 acres     1,4256   10%       25      25 or   25 or   25/357
                                                        532     532
RE-1A    1 acre  1 acre      1,4256   15%       25      25 or   25 or   25/357
                                                        532     532
R1-8     8,0008  8,0008      1.425    40%       20      10 or   10 or   25
                                                        532     532
R1-7     7,000   7,000       1,000    40%       20      10 or   10 or   259
                                                        532     532
R1-5     5,000   5,000       None     None      151     5       10      20
R2       3,500   7,00010     740      40%       20      1011 or 1011 or 259
                                                        532     532
MHS      5,000   5,000       None     50%       18      8, 1612 1515
                                                        or 432
MHP      3       3,00016     None     N/A       1030    531     531     1515
         acres16
RM       1,50017 7,00018     None     45%       20      1011 or 10 or   2515
                                                        532     532
CBD      19      19          None     None      None20  None20  None20  3015
C-2      19      19          None     None      2021    None21  None21  3015
SC       19      19          None     None      2021    None21  None21  3015
IP       19      19          None     None      None    None    None    None
BP       19      19          None     60%       50/     20      20      3015
                                                10022
PDR      None    3 acres33   None     None      23      23      23      24
PRD      None    3 acres25,  None26   None      23      23      23      24
                 33
PDGC     None    3 acres33   None     None      23      23      23      24
PDMR     None    3 acres33   None     None      23      23      23      24
PDC      None    3 acres33   None     None      23      23      23      24
PDI      None    3 acres33   None     None      23      23      23      24
PDBP     None    3 acres33   None     None      23      23      23      24
FD       None    None        None     None      None    None    None    None
AP       19      19          None     None      27      27      27      28
Notes for Principal Building Bulk Standards
1. Does not include square footage associated with garages, carports and/or
accessory structures.
2. The maximum applies to the area covered by both the principal and accessory
structures.
3. Automobile service station: no automobile service station fuel pump (face)
shall be located closer than 20 feet to a front or side street lot line.
4. Canopies, cornices, eaves: architectural features, such as canopies, cornices
and eaves may extend no more than two feet into any required minimum yard area,
provided that all columns, pillars or other supporting structures are placed in
conformance to minimum setbacks.
5. Shall not apply to belfries, chimneys, cupolas, domes, flag poles, flues,
monuments, radio towers, television antennas or satellite dishes, or aerials,
spires, tanks, water towers, air conditions units or similar roof structures,
such as parapet walls and cornices and necessary mechanical appurtenances
usually carried about the roof level, except for buildings within the airport
hazard area. Such features are limited to that height necessary for proper
functioning, and any roof structure shall not exceed 25% of the roof area; nor
be used for any purpose other than a use incidental to the approved use of the
building. In no event shall the height of a building and any appurtenances
located within the Airport Hazard Area (AHA) exceed the limitations within the
AHA. Height restrictions in the AHA are defined by the slope gradient 7:1 from
the centerline of the runway.
6. 700 square feet for an accessory guest house, which must be incidental to,
and constructed after, the principal dwelling unit.
7. 25-foot maximum at the eaves; 35 foot maximum at the ridge board.
8. Except Block 13, lots 13-18; 7,800 square foot lots permitted for these lots.
9. Except churches, libraries, hospitals and public buildings.
10. Except Lot 27, Block 14, which shall be 6,500 square feet.
11. For duplexes or end units of single-family attached apartments, only one
side yard with a minimum width of 10 feet is required.
12. Only one required side yard of 16 feet may be required (corner lot must have
a 20 foot setback) with a conditional use permit if: (1) The lot owner obtains
and records a three-foot maintenance easement from the adjacent lot owner; and
(2) There is a one-hour firewall from grade to roof sheathing; and (3) No roof
shall drain on to adjacent property.
13. For accessory buildings, the setback must be either in the rear half of the
lot or 50 feet, whichever is less.
14. Except for Blocks 55-57, Lots 14-22; Block 58, Lots 25-33; Block 59, Lots
34-41 and 44-51; Block 60, Lots 52-59 and 62-69; and Block 61, Lots 29-44, where
an eight-foot rear yard setback is permitted, exclusive of any easements.
15. Can be modified with a conditional use permit. In the MHS District, may be
increased to 20 feet if minimum lot size of 8,000 square feet and CUP granted,
with a minimum ten-foot side yard setback.
16. Maximum density not to exceed ten-units per acres, except RV parks, which
may permit up to 18 units per acres. A minimum lot size of two acres is required
for a RV Park.
17. Duplex units require 3,500 square feet per unit; single-family attached
require 2,000 square feet per unit and a minimum lot width of 20 feet; single-
family detached requires a minimum lot size of 7,000 square feet per unit.
18. Minimum lot width of 70 feet is required for multi-family. Minimum 20-foot
building separation required for duplex and multi-family units.
19. Adequate to provide required off-street parking.
20. Subject to approval of the city, based on the type of development and
design.
21. If the commercial lot is adjacent to a side or a rear lot line of a
residential zone, the required side or rear yard shall be the minimum average
width of that required in the adjoining residential zone. On corner lots, the
side street yard shall be the same as the front building lines of the majority
of the lots fronting on the same street.
22. 50 feet on interior roads; 100 feet on arterial and collector roads. On
corner lots, the side street yard shall be the same as that for the majority of
the lots fronting on the same street.
23. Yards abutting streets and vacant areas shall be determined by the Planning
and Zoning Commission. For yards abutting existing developments, the minimum
setback will be equal to the setback in the adjacent development. The Commission
may require greater setbacks, as well as screen walls, hedges, shrubs and trees
to preserve the character of the surrounding area.
24. Same as the underlying zoning, except a greater height may be approved if
design features, such as open space and building setbacks, to avoid adverse
impacts due to the increase in height.
25. For essential governmental facilities, nature and recreational trails, bike
paths, wildlife habitats, scenic overlooks and parking, public rest areas or
tourism information centers, there shall be no minimum requirement.
26. Minimum 300 square feet for each motel/hotel room.
27. Subject to approval by the Airport Board and the Planning and Zoning
Commission, based on the type of development and site design.
28. Per approved conditional use permit requirements.
29. For corner lots, the front yard setback applies to both yards fronting on
the street.
30. There shall be a minimum distance of ten feet between the front of the
manufactured home and any private street or sidewalk, including tongue and bay
windows or any other attached projection.
31. The minimum distance between manufactured homes, or attached/detached
accessory structures in the same manufactured home parks shall be ten feet.
Manufactured homes or attached/detached accessory structure may not be closer
than ten feet to the exterior boundary or five feet to space lines of the park.
32. For accessory buildings. For zero lot line installation in a MHS Zoning
District: no roof shall drain onto adjacent property and there shall be a one-
hour firewall from grade to the roof sheathing.
33. Lots may be re-subdivided as a part of the planned development process, as
outlined in §
152.086(J).
34. Except for a shade cover attached to the front of the home and open on three
sides. Minimum setback shall be eight feet from the front lot line.
 
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018)
Appendix C: Signs
Appendix C: Signs
Planned Development District Sign Regulations - Gateway
        Maximum Type of Sign
        Total   Monument Sign 12, 10              Pole Mounted Sign12             Wall, Canopy or Awning
Primary Size of Maximums                          Maximums                        Maximums
Use     All
        Signs   Setback1 # of  Size Height Change Setbac # of  Size Height Change # of  Size Height Change
        (Square          Signs sqft (feet) sign   k1     Signs sqft (feet) sign   Signs sqft (feet) sign
        Feet)
Appendix C: Signs
Planned Development District Sign Regulations - Gateway
            Maximum   Type of Sign
            Total     Monument Sign 12, 10              Pole Mounted Sign12             Wall, Canopy or Awning
Primary Use Size of   Maximums                          Maximums                        Maximums
            All Signs          # of  Size Height Change Setbac # of  Size Height Change # of    Size Height    Change
            (Square   Setback1 Signs sqft (feet) sign   k1     Signs sqft (feet) sign   Signs   sqft (feet)    sign
            Feet)
General
business                                                                                Not     1.5  Not
(one        150-3002  53       14    60   8      40%    203    14    50   14     50%    limited 5,   limited14 No
business on                                                                                     16
one site)
Commercial                                                                                      1.5
complex     Not       53       14    80   8      No     203    14    200  14     25%    Not     5,   Not       No
(40,000+    limited11                                                                   limited 16   limited14
sqft)
Small
commercial                                                                                      1.5
complex     Not       53       14    60   6      No     203    14    75   18     25%    Not     5,   Not       No
(12,000-    limited11                                                                   limited 16   limited14
40,000
sqft)
Theater     150-300   53       14    60   8      50%    203    14    50   18     75%    Not     1.55 Not       100%
                                                                                        limited      limited14
School,
church,                                                                                              Not
mortuary,   60        53       14    24   5      40%    No     No    No   No     No     18      24   limited14 No
child care
center
Residential 60        53       14    24   5      No     No     No    No   No     No     No      No   No        No
development
No = Not allowed N/A = Not applicable
 
Planned Development District Sign Regulations - Gateway (Cont’d)
        Maximum Type of Sign
        Total   Shingle Sign               Directional Sign  Menu Board12
Primary Size of                            12, 15
Use     All     Maximums                   Maximums          Maximums
        Signs            # of  Size Height # of  Size Height # of  Size Height
        (Square Setback1 Signs sqft (feet) Signs sqft (feet) Signs sqft (feet)
        Feet)
Planned Development District Sign Regulations - Gateway (Cont’d)
            Maximum   Type of Sign
            Total     Shingle Sign               Directional Sign    Menu Board12
Primary Use Size of                              12, 15
            All Signs Maximums                   Maximums            Maximums
            (Square   Setback1 # of  Size Height # of    Size Height # of  Size Height
            Feet)              Signs sqft (feet) Signs   sqft (feet) Signs sqft (feet)
General
Business                                         Not
(one        150-3002  103      26    4    77     limited 3    3      29    3015 6
business on
one site)
Commercial
complex     Not       No       No    No   No     No      No   No     No    No   No
(40,000+    limited11
sqft)
Small
commercial
complex     Not       No       No    No   No     No      No   No     No    No   No
(12,000-    limited11
40,000
sqft)
Theater     150-300   No       No    No   No     No      3    3      No    No   No
School,
church,                                          Not
mortuary,   60        No       No    No   No     limited 3    3      No    No   No
child care
center
Residential 60        No       No    No   No     Not     3    3      No    No   No
development                                      limited
No = Not allowed N/A = Not applicable
1. From the property line, with the exception of directional and applicable temporary
signs.
2. If a business has more than 50 feet of street frontage, the total area of all signs
on-site may be increased one square foot beyond the 150 square foot maximum for each
foot of street frontage exceeding 50 feet - but the total area shall not exceed 300
feet.
3. 30 feet from a Residential Zoning District.
4. One monument or pole sign per street frontage except a second monument or pole sign
is permitted for a lot with street frontage greater than 200 feet. The second sign
must be at least 100 feet from the first.
5. 1.5 square feet of sign area for each building front foot on the wall on which the
sign is placed.
6. One perpendicular and one parallel shingle sign is permitted for each business
front and shall be adjacent to the business that it identifies. A shingle sign shall
be suspended from a roof overhang or covered walkway. No part of a shingle or
suspended sign shall extend beyond the edge of the overhang.
7. The minimum distance between the bottom of the shingle sign and the nearest grade
or sidewalk.
8. One wall sign allowed for each building.
9. Two freestanding or wall mounted menu boards for each drive-through restaurant,
located not less than 45 feet from the street property line.
10. One sign with a maximum area of 24 square feet is permitted at each driveway.
11. The sign shall not be counted in the total sign area allowed for individual
business.
12. Signs may be illuminated. Source of illumination must not be visible.
13. A wall sign is permitted on a roof surface if the roof surface is within 25
degrees of vertical.
14. Top of wall sign cannot exceed height of prevailing roof line, or not to exceed
building height allowed by this zoning code, whichever is less.
15. This sign shall not be counted in the total sign area of this site.
16. Gas stations: 15% of the aggregate area of each side of the canopy face.
 
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018)
Planned Development District Sign Regulations - Non-Gateway
        Maximum Type of Sign
        Total   Monument Sign 12, 10              Pole Mounted Sign12               Wall, Canopy or Awning
Primary Size of Maximums                          Maximums                          Maximums
Use     All
        Signs   Setback1 # of  Size Height Change Setback1 # of  Size Height Change # of  Size Height Change
        (Square          Signs sqft (feet) Sign            Signs sqft (feet) Sign   Signs sqft (feet) Sign
        Feet)
Planned Development District Sign Regulations - Non-Gateway
            Maximum   Type of Sign
            Total     Monument Sign 12, 10              Pole Mounted Sign12               Wall, Canopy or Awning
Primary Use Size of   Maximums                          Maximums                          Maximums
            All Signs          # of  Size Height Change          # of  Size Height Change             Size Height Change
            (Square   Setback1 Signs sqft (feet) Sign   Setback1 Signs sqft (feet) Sign   # of Signs  sqft (feet) Sign
            Feet)
General
business
(one        150-3002  53       14    40   5      25%    203      14    50   14     50%    Not limited 103  26     4
business on
one site)
Commercial
complex     Not       53       14    60   5      No     203      14    200  14     25%    Not limited No   No     No
(40,000+    limited11
sqft)
Small
commercial
complex     Not       53       14    60   5      No     203      14    75   14     25%    Not         No   No     No
(12,000-    limited11                                                                     limited11
40,000
sqft)
Theater     150-300   53       14    60   5      75%    203      14    50   14     75%    150-300     No   No     No
School,                                                                                   School,
church,                                                                                   church,
mortuary,   60        53       14    24   5      40%    No       No    No   No     No     mortuary,   60   No     No
child care                                                                                child care
center                                                                                    center
Residential 60        53       110   24   5      No     No       No    No   No     No     Residential 60   No     No
development                                                                               development
 
Planned Development District Sign Regulations - Non-Gateway (Cont’d)
        Maximum Type of Sign
        Total   Shingle Sign               Directional       Menu Board12
Primary Size of                            Sign12, 15
Use     All     Maximums                   Maximums          Maximums
        Signs            # of  Size Height # of  Size Height # of  Size Height
        (Square Setback1 Signs sqft (feet) Signs sqft (feet) Signs sqft (feet)
        Feet)
Planned Development District Sign Regulations - Non-Gateway (Cont’d)
            Maximum   Type of Sign
            Total     Shingle Sign               Directional Sign12, Menu Board12
Primary Use Size of                              15
            All Signs Maximums                   Maximums            Maximums
            (Square   Setback1 # of  Size Height # of    Size Height # of  Size Height
            Feet)              Signs sqft (feet) Signs   sqft (feet) Signs sqft (feet)
General
business                                         Not
(one        150-3002  103      26    4    77     limited 3    3      29    3015 6
business on
one site)
Commercial
complex     Not       No       No    No   No     No      No   No     No    No   No
(40,000+    limited11
sqft)
Small
commercial
complex     Not       No       No    No   No     No      No   No     No    No   No
(12,000 to  limited11
40,000
sqft)
Theater     150-300   No       No    No   No     No      3    3      29    3015 6
School,
church,                                          Not
mortuary,   60        No       No    No   No     limited 3    3      No    No   No
child care
center
Residential 60        No       No    No   No     Not     3    3      No    No   No
development                                      limited
No = Not allowed N/A = Not applicable
1. From the property line, with the exception of directional and applicable temporary
signs.
2. If a business has more than 50 feet of street frontage, the total area of all signs
on-site may be increased one square foot beyond the 150 square foot maximum for each
foot of street frontage exceeding 50 feet, but the total area shall not exceed 300
feet.
3. 30 feet from a residential zoning district.
4. One monument or pole sign per street frontage, except a second monument or pole
sign is permitted for a lot with street frontage greater than 200 feet. The second
sign must be at least 100 feet from the first.
5. 1.5 square feet of sign area for each building front foot on the wall on which the
sign is placed.
6. One perpendicular and one parallel shingle sign is permitted for each business
front and shall be adjacent to the business that it identifies. A shingle sign shall
be suspended from a roof overhang or covered walkway. No part of a shingle or
suspended sign shall extend beyond the edge of the overhang.
7. The minimum distance between the bottom of the shingle sign and the nearest grade
or sidewalk.
8. One wall sign allowed for each building.
9. Two freestanding or wall mounted menu boards for each drive-through restaurant,
located not less than 45 feet from the street property line.
10. One sign with a maximum area of 24 square feet is permitted at each driveway.
11. The sign shall not be counted in the total sign area allowed for individual
business.
12. Signs may be illuminated. Source of illumination must not be visible.
13. A wall sign is permitted on a roof surface if the roof surface is within 25
degrees of vertical.
14. Top of wall sign cannot exceed height of prevailing roof line, or not to exceed
building height allowed by this zoning code, whichever is less.
15. This sign shall not be counted in the total sign area of this site.
16. Gas stations: 15% of the aggregate area of each side of the canopy face.
 
(Ord. 648-18, passed 11-28-2018)
Appendix D: Zoning Map
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ba1c1b633916dbf854fc45ce7e208e4cc617f0d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1258.jpg]
CHAPTER 153: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
   
153.01   Delegation of responsibility for floodplain management
   
153.02   Floodplain Administrator, duties and responsibilities
   
153.03   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
153.04   Penalties for violation
§ 153.01 DELEGATION OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT.
   In accordance with A.R.S § 48-3610(E), floodplain management within the city
has been relinquished to the Coconino County Flood Control District; and
development within areas designated as special flood hazard areas located
within city limits shall be subject to such rules and regulations as may be
established by the state and the Coconino County Flood Control District in
conformance with the National Flood Insurance Program requirements and the
provisions of A.R.S. Article 1, Chapter 21, Title 48. Conformance to such rules
and regulations shall be in addition to any other applicable code requirements.
(Ord. 719-23, passed 11-15-2023)
§ 153.02 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The City Planning and Zoning Director is hereby appointed as Floodplain
Administrator of the city. The Planning and Zoning Director may assign the
following duties given to the Floodplain Administrator by this code to another
city employee or engineer working for the city. Duties of the Floodplain
Administrator shall include:
   (A)   Coordinate with Coconino County Flood Control District staff regarding
floodplain management;
   (B)   Verify that the city’s participation in the National Flood Insurance
Program is maintained and remains in good standing;
   (C)   Obtain and maintain current flood insurance study(ies) and flood
management rate maps;
   (D)   Obtain and maintain a copy of the most current “Coconino County
Floodplain Regulations Ordinance” at the office of the City Clerk;
   (E)   Obtain and maintain evidence of compliance for all applicable
development in special flood hazard areas (SFHAs);
   (F)   Establish procedures to ensure that all requests for permits for
floodplain development will be promptly forwarded to the Coconino County Flood
Control District and that no permits will be issued by any agent of the city
until a valid floodplain use permit is obtained by the applicant; and
   (G)   Cooperate with federal, state, and local agencies and private firms in
providing information and cooperating with any study, survey, map or
identification of floodplain areas, with respect to management of adjoining
floodplain areas in order to prevent aggravation of any existing hazards.
(Ord. 719-23, passed 11-15-2023)
§ 153.03 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this section and applicable state
and county regulations is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This section does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. This section
shall not create liability on the part of the city or any officer or employee
thereof.
Ord. 719-23, passed 11-15-2023)
§ 153.04 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   Violation of floodplain management regulations established for development
within the city shall be deemed to be a violation of both this section and
A.R.S. Article 1, Chapter 21, Title 48 and is subject to penalties described in
§
10.99 of this code and A.R.S. § 48-3615.
Ord. 719-23, passed 11-15-2023)
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
Minor Subdivision Land Splits and Combinations
   
154.001   Purpose and intent
   
154.002   Land split or combination procedures and requirements
   
154.003   Pre-application conference
   
154.004   Land split or combination applications
Property Boundary Line Adjustments
   
154.015   Property boundary line adjustments
Major Subdivision Design Standards and Requirements
   
154.025   General requirements
   
154.026   Lot design
   
154.027   Street design
   
154.028   Alley, lane and easement design
   
154.029   Block design
Major Subdivision Minimum Improvements Required
   
154.040   In general
   
154.041   Minimum improvements required (specific and general)
Limited Modifications to Requirements
   
154.055   Limited modifications to requirements
Major Subdivision Approval Process
   
154.060   General approval process and procedures
   
154.061   Purpose and requirements of the preliminary plat
   
154.062   Purpose and requirements of the final plat
Construction Plan Submittal and As-Builts
   
154.075   Site construction plan review process and requirements
   
154.076   Building construction plan review process and requirements
   
154.077   Certificate of occupancy and temporary certificate of occupancy
   
154.078   As-built submittal requirements for the city and Page Utility
Enterprises
Reversion of Subdivided Land
   
154.090   Purpose
   
154.091   Reversion request required
   
154.092   Notification and advertisement
   
154.093   Action by the City Council
   
154.094   Recording the survey/plat
Abandonment or Vacation of Public Right-of-Way
   
154.105   Purpose
   
154.106   Process and procedures
   
154.107   Effective date and recording vacation resolution and/or plat
   
154.108   Appeals
Annexation
   
154.120   Annexation
Violations and Penalties
   
154.130   Violations and penalties
Appeals
   
154.140   Appeal decision made by the Director
   
154.141   Appeal decision made by Board of Adjustment
Definition of Terms
   
154.155   Definition of terms
MINOR SUBDIVISION LAND SPLITS AND COMBINATIONS
§ 154.001 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
    The intent of these regulations is to provide procedures consistent with
Arizona law that promote the health, safety and general welfare for all
citizens of the city by allowing for orderly growth and harmonious development
of the city in a manner that:
   (A)   Is consistent with the zoning ordinance, design requirements, and all
other city codes and ordinances.
   (B)   Establishes and maintains safe and effective vehicular and non-
vehicular circulation through coordinated street, transit, bicycle and
pedestrian systems with relation to major thoroughfares, adjoining subdivisions
and public facilities.
   (C)   Ensures the adequate provisions to all property for water, sewer and
other utilities, drainage and stormwater retention, and other health and safety
requirements.
   (D)   Ensures the provision for adequate sites for schools, recreation, open
space and other public facilities.
   (E)   Promotes the conveyance of land by accurate legal description.
(Ord. 692-22, passed 5-11-2022)
§ 154.002 LAND SPLIT OR COMBINATION PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   The preparation, submittal, review and approval of all land splits or
combinations located within the city limits shall proceed through the following
process, except as otherwise provided in this chapter:
   (A)   Optional pre-application conference with staff.
   (B)   Submittal of a surveyed plat and required fees by the applicant, and
review and approval of the land split or combination application and survey by
the P & Z Department (“Director”) or designee.
   (C)   Recordation of the approved land split or combination map and any
associated legal description with the Coconino County Recorder's office by the
applicant.
(Ord. 692-22, passed 5-11-2022)
§ 154.003 PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE.
   (A)   The pre-application conference is optional and precedes the submittal
of the land split/combination application by the applicant. The applicant can
initially present the land split/combination proposal through a sketch plan to
city staff who shall advise the applicant of specific public objectives and
requirements related to the property and the procedure for the land split/
combination review.
   (B)   The city staff will review the sketch plan to determine if the
approval process authorized by this section, or §§
154.090 et seq., Reversion of Subdivided Land, should be used instead. The
Director may require the applicant to submit whatever information is necessary
to make this determination, including, but not limited to, a copy of the
Coconino County Assessor's map showing the land being divided and all lots or
parcels previously divided from that tract of land and all contiguous land
under the same ownership 15 years prior to May 11, 2022, the effective date of
these regulations.
(Ord. 692-22, passed 5-11-2022)
§ 154.004 LAND SPLIT OR COMBINATION APPLICATIONS. 
   (A)   Application submittal.
      (1)   All land split or combination applications shall include the
following:
         (a)   A minimum of two surveys stamped by a land surveyor/civil
engineer licensed in the State of Arizona, plus any additional copies required
by the applicant, showing the proposed land split/combination, existing
conditions including the location of all structures, rights-of-way, easements,
and building setbacks from property lines;
         (b)   Any information required as part of the land split/combination
submittal shall be shown graphically on the plans by note and/or details, and
if needed, sheets showing various elements of the supporting data. All mapped
data for the same map shall be drawn at the same scale, which cannot be greater
than 100 feet to one inch;
         (c)   A completed city land split or combination application form;
         (d)   A non-refundable land split/combination application fee
(Reference City of Page application and fee schedule).
      (2)   Only complete application packets will be accepted and reviewed. If
city staff determines the application to be incomplete, it will be rejected and
returned to the applicant at the applicant's cost. The city will not hold
incomplete applications for the applicant.
   (B)   Application approval standards.
      (1)   All land split/combination applications shall be designed to comply
with the requirements of the specific zoning district within which it is
located, including minimum lot area, lot depth, lot width and minimum access
requirements, while showing all building setbacks.
      (2)   No lot or parcel shall be divided in such a way that any division
contains more dwelling units than are permitted by the zoning regulations in
the district where the lot or parcel is located.
   (C)   Process for approval and notifications.
      (1)   The applicant shall submit all documents, data and other
information for approval of a land split/combination to the Planning and Zoning
Department. The applicant shall furnish any additional information and
materials relevant to the application that are reasonably believed to be
necessary to evaluate and understand the application request, and to ensure
compliance with the requirements of this section. Compliance shall be as
determined by city staff.
      (2)   The procedures for approval, modification or denial of a land
split/combination application shall be as follows:
         (a)   The Director shall approve or disapprove applications for land
splits/combinations pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and to ensure
compliance with any applicable conditions of approval.
         (b)   The applicant may appeal a final action to the P & Z Commission
in accordance with §
154.140 of this chapter.
         (c)   No notification of adjacent property owners, signage posting,
nor newspaper ad is required.
(Ord. 692-22, passed 5-11-2022)
PROPERTY BOUNDARY LINE ADJUSTMENTS
§ 154.015 PROPERTY BOUNDARY LINE ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   When a common lot line between two adjoining parcels requires
adjustment, the submittal requirements and procedures for a land split/
combination provided in §§
154.001 et seq., Minor Subdivision Land Splits and Combinations shall be
followed for review and approval by the city staff. No notification of adjacent
property owners, posting of signage nor newspaper advertisement is required.
   (B)   In addition to the submittal requirements for a land split/combination
application established in §§
154.001 et seq. Minor Subdivision Land Splits and Combinations, the notarized,
written consent of all involved property owners of the real property associated
with the proposed boundary line adjustment shall be provided with the
application.
(Ord. 692-22, passed 5-11-2022)
MAJOR SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 154.025 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Except where expressly modified by the City Council, each major subdivision
plat shall be in conformity with the standards set forth or referred to in this
subchapter, and the common engineering standards shall apply, as set forth in
the MAG SPECS (Maricopa Association of Governments Standard Specifications and
Details for Public Works Construction), the most current adopted edition.
   (A)   All lots or parcels created by the subdivision of land shall have
their own frontage to a public or private street. Public and private streets
shall be designed and improved to public street standards in accordance with §
154.027, Street Design, the common engineering standards and details set forth
in MAG SPECS, the most current adopted edition, and all current and adopted
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) standards and requirements, where
applicable.
    (B)   Driveways, sidewalks, curbs, gutters, stormwater drainage, sewer and
water facilities and transmission lines, and all other utilities and site
developments for a subdivision shall be designed in accordance with the
engineering standards set forth in MAG SPECS, and the ADA standards and
requirements, most current adopted editions, where applicable.
   (C)   The site planning standards, including all landscaping, walls, fences,
open spaces, on- and off-street parking facilities, loading and unloading
zones, community and public facilities, signage and all other site plan
amenities, shall be designed as provided for in the City of Page
Chapter 152: Zoning Code, where the site planning standards shall be applied to
the maximum extent feasible.
(Ord. 692-22, passed 5-11-2022)
§ 154.026 LOT DESIGN.
   (A)   The size, shape, and orientation of lots in the subdivision shall be
appropriate to the location of the proposed subdivision, to the type of
development contemplated, and shall be designed in accordance with the specific
development requirements of the zoning district within which the subdivision is
located. The lot width, depth, frontage, lot area, developable area, building
setbacks and building heights shall comply with the minimum requirements of the
City of Page
Chapter 152: Zoning Code, and the specific development requirements of the
specific zoning district where the subdivision is located. Where unusual
topography, rock outcroppings, soil conditions or drainage issues exist or
prevail, special lot width, depth and area standards may be considered. (See §
154.055 Limited Modifications to Requirements). Innovative development
approaches, such as a clustered development should be explored in the interest
of producing unique, environmentally-sensitive projects.
   (B)   No remnants of property shall be left in the subdivision that does not
conform to lot requirements, unless required for a private utility, a
designated open space or other public purpose.
   (C)   All subdivisions shall result in the creation of lots which are
capable of being lawfully built upon. Except for parcels or tracts to be
maintained as open space, no subdivision shall create lots which are physically
unsuitable for improvement due to size or shape, steepness of terrain, location
of water courses, problems of sewage or driveway grades, or other natural
physical conditions.
   (D)   Lots having double frontage shall be avoided except where necessary to
provide separation of residential development from traffic arterials, to
provide ingress and egress in commercial or industrial subdivisions, or to
overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation.
   (E)   Corner lots may be required to be wider than interior lots to provide
for the principal front yard and secondary street side yard setback
requirements.
   (F)   Lot lines shall be located on or near the crest of ridges to preclude
prominent line of sight building construction. Where feasible, the buildable
area of a lot (i.e., the area within the setbacks) shall not be located on or
near the crest of ridge lines.
   (G)   The construction envelope or buildable area on a lot shall be
determined by the setback requirements for the lot and the location of
easements and natural topographic features such as watercourses, rock outcrops,
native vegetation and trees.
(Ord. 692-22, passed 5-11-2022)
§ 154.027 STREET DESIGN.
   (A)   The minimum requirements for street design are as established in the
common engineering standards and details set forth in MAG SPECS, the most
current adopted editions, as applicable.
   (B)   Standard utility design and locations shall comply with the common
engineering standards and details set forth in MAG SPECS, the most current
adopted edition.
   (C)   Local streets should be designed to promote connectivity by creating a
grid-like network of vehicular, pedestrian, and bicycle connections to provide
diversity of route choices between the proposed subdivision and existing
streets and routes unless topographic conditions prohibit it.
   (D)   Names of streets should be consistent with the natural alignments and
extensions of existing streets and the city's addressing guidelines. New street
names should not duplicate or be easily confused with existing street names.
   (E)   Local circulation systems and land development patterns shall be
designed so that multiple modes of transportation are considered and that the
efficiency of bordering arterial routes is maintained.
   (F)   Proposed streets shall be extended to the tract boundary to provide
future connection with adjoining undeveloped lands. The street pattern in the
subdivision shall not land lock any adjacent property nor unduly prevent access
to public lands. All dead-end streets shall be provided with a minimum 50 foot
turn-around radius to accommodate emergency service vehicles and delivery
trucks.
   (G)   The functional classification of streets shall be as assigned by the
city and shall include any street, avenue, boulevard, road, lane, parkway,
place, drive or right-of-way which is an existing state, county or municipal
roadway; or a vehicular access way shown on a plat which has been approved by
the elected body or agency given the statutory authority to do so, and duly
recorded in the Office of the Coconino County Recorder. A street includes all
land within the right-of-way whether improved or unimproved, pavement,
shoulders, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, parking space, bridges, viaducts and
landscaping.
      (1)   ARTERIAL ROUTE. A general term including freeways, expressways,
major arterial streets and interstate, state or county highways and usually
section line roads. Arterials have between three to five lanes of traffic with
a minimum right-of-way width of 100 feet.
      (2)   COLLECTOR STREET. A street with limited continuity serving the
primary function of carrying traffic from local streets to arterial routes, and
the secondary function of providing access to abutting properties. Collector
Streets have a minimum of two lanes of traffic with a minimum right-of-way
width of 60 feet.
      (3)   LOCAL/PRIVATE STREET. A street with a primary function of providing
access to abutting property and they have a minimum of two lanes of traffic and
a right-of-way width of 50 feet.
      (4)   CUL-DE-SAC. A short local street no longer than 600 feet long which
has one end permanently terminating in and including a vehicular turn-around
area with a minimum radius of 50 feet.
   (H)   Whenever a tract to be subdivided includes any part of a street
designated in an adopted street plan, the street shall be platted in
conformance with that plan.
   (I)   Whenever a tract to be subdivided is located within an area for which
a development master plan has been approved by the City Council, the street
arrangement shall conform substantially to this most recent approved plan.
   (J)   Streets shall be designed in relation to existing topography to
produce streets of reasonable gradient to facilitate adequate drainage and to
produce desirable lots of maximum utility. Where feasible, streets shall be
placed along the top of ridges to minimize the extent of grading and reduce the
visual impacts of development.
   (K)   Boundary streets (half streets) shall be discouraged except where
necessary to provide right-of-way to complete a half street already
constructed, or a street pattern already started, or to ensure reasonable
development of a number of adjoining parcels. Where a platted half street abuts
the tract to be subdivided, the remaining half of the street shall be platted
within the tract.
(Ord. 692-22, passed 5-11-2022)
§ 154.028 ALLEY, LANE AND EASEMENT DESIGN.
   (A)   Alleys and lanes shall be designed and constructed in accordance with
city regulations and the common engineering standards set forth in MAG SPECS,
the most current adopted edition.
   (B)   Easements shall be provided and dedicated where deemed necessary for
specific purposes for use by the general public, public or private utility
corporations, or the City of Page. Easements necessary to assure access to
adjacent public lands shall be provided to the satisfaction of city staff. Such
easements shall not prevent the reasonable improvement of any development.
Pedestrian, bicycle or equestrian access easements may be required where
essential for circulation or access to schools, parks, trails, playgrounds,
shopping centers, transportation and other community facilities. Easements may
be used for a combination of shared uses, such as drainage, utility and/or
access, as approved by the Director, and when and where required, by the Public
Works Director, or PUE.
   (C)   Where a double frontage or corner lot exists, vehicular ingress/egress
shall only be allowed on the local street side of the lot. No vehicular
ingress/egress shall be permitted on the collector or arterial street side of
the lot.
   (D)   The applicant shall dedicate a storm drainage easement conforming
substantially to the line of any existing watercourse that traverses the land;
or at the option of the city, provide by dedication further and sufficient
easements or detention ponds, or both, to dispose of such surface and
stormwater, upon the direction of the applicant's Civil Design Engineer, and as
approved by the city.
(Ord. 692-22, passed 5-11-2022)
§ 154.029 BLOCK DESIGN.
   (A)   Blocks shall not normally be more than 1,200 feet in length, measured
from the property lines, except in topographically challenged developments or
where a subdivision of 1/2 acre lots or larger justify or require a variation
from this requirement, or where there exists other unusual natural conditions
of the property being subdivided, as approved by city staff.
   (B)   Blocks shall normally have sufficient width for an ultimate layout of
two back-to-back rows of contiguous lots of appropriate size, without dedicated
alleys between the rows, in accordance with the minimum lot design requirements
of the zoning district in which the subdivision is proposed.
(Ord. 692-22, passed 5-11-2022)
MAJOR SUBDIVISION MINIMUM IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED 
§ 154.040 IN GENERAL.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to improve all
streets, pedestrian ways, alleys, sidewalks, curbs, gutters, utilities,
landscaping, and easements in the subdivision, and adjacent to it, as required
to serve the subdivision.
   (B)   No permanent improvement work shall be commenced until the final plat
has been approved and the construction plans have been reviewed and approved by
the city's Site Plan Review Committee (SPRC), which is the construction plan
reviewing agency for the city to ensure all construction is in compliance with
all current local, state and/or federal development and building codes. The
SPRC is comprised of one member each from the following city departments:
Planning and Zoning, Public Works, Building Code and Safety, Fire, and Police
who are all required members. The SPRC also requires one member each from the
Public Utility Enterprise (PUE) Electric Utility and the Water and Sewer
Utility to serve on the SPRC for all required reviews. Various outside agencies
are also required to participate on the SPRC whenever their easement(s),
rights-of-way, utilities or public infrastructure is, or will be located on or
adjacent to a property subject to a site plan review, such as: cable TV, gas/
propane; fiberoptic, telephone and cell tower utility providers, as
appropriate; as well as the National Park Service, Federal Bureau of
Reclamation, Arizona Department of Transportation (ADOT), Western Area Power
Administration (WAPA), United States Postal Service (USPS), the State Fire
Marshal and/or County Health Office, or other agency to be included at the
discretion of the Director.
   (C)   In addition to division (B) above, no permanent improvement work shall
be commenced until after the appropriate building permits have been approved
for the subject work by the Chief Building Official/ Building Inspector.
Improvements shall be installed to the permanent line and grade and to the
satisfaction of the approved plans, the city, and in accordance with the
standard subdivision specifications of this Code, the MAG SPEC standards and
details and ADA regulations and specifications, most current editions. The cost
of all inspections shall be paid in full by the applicant.
   (D)   For subdivisions platted and developed in more than one single phase,
the final plat and assurance of performance for improvements shall represent
only the limits of each individual development phase. Each phase of a
subdivision shall have improvements designed to be fully operational and
functional into perpetuity without reliance on the development of future
phases. Construction plans submitted for approval shall not represent multiple
phases without showing how each phase can be sectioned off to make each
individual phase independently operational and functional.
(Ord. 692-22, passed 5-11-2022)
§ 154.041 MINIMUM IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED (SPECIFIC AND GENERAL).
   (A)   Each subdivision will have its own specific needed improvements, which
will be determined by the Site Plan Review Committee during their review of the
site plans for each subdivision, based upon the existing topography and natural
conditions, available utilities and infrastructure, soil conditions, drainage
issues, and various other demands that may be determined to be specific to each
subdivision. Those specific minimum improvements will be shared with the
applicant during the Site Plan Review Committee meeting. Any specific
conditions of approval as approved by the City Council shall also be adhered to
in the development of the subdivision.
   (B)   Each subdivision will need to adhere to the minimum requirements for
all general improvements required, and as dictated by the most current editions
of these regulations, the City of Page Zoning Code, the MAG SPEC public
improvements minimum requirements, and any other applicable regulations or
rules for the design and layout of the lots, public rights-of-way, sidewalks,
paths, easements, landscaping, on and off-street parking, street and property
lighting, signage, lot coverage, lot area, building setbacks, and building
heights.
   (C)   Developers of all residential, commercial, industrial or other types
of properties are responsible for the cost of design, materials, and
installation of street lighting on all streets within and adjacent to their
development site(s). Street lighting plans shall be prepared and sealed by a
licensed electrical engineer registered in the State of Arizona. The street
lighting design shall be reviewed and approved by the Site Plan Review
Committee. Street light spacing shall be at intervals not to exceed 300 feet.
Intersections shall have the minimum number of street lights installed based
upon the table below.
 
Intersection type                               Minimum street light quantity
Local/local or local/private                    1
Local/collector, collector/collector, or local/ 2
arterial
Arterial/collector                              3
Arterial/arterial                               4
 
(Ord. 692-22, passed 5-11-2022; Ord. 728-24, passed 4-10-2024)
LIMITED MODIFICATIONS TO REQUIREMENTS
§ 154.055 LIMITED MODIFICATIONS TO REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Where, in the opinion of the Director, and as approved by City
Council, there exists extraordinary conditions of topography, rock
outcroppings, soil conditions, land ownership, adjacent development, or other
circumstances not provided for in these regulations, City Council may modify
the provisions of this Code in such a manner, and to such extent as it may deem
appropriate to the public interest. The burden of proof for City Council
determination of a modification rests with the applicant. The written request
for modification shall be made to the city and shall be submitted to the P & Z
Commission and City Council after said modifications have been sufficiently
reviewed by the Site Plan Review Committee. A recommendation of said
modification(s) by the P & Z Commission shall then be sent to City Council for
a final decision. Modifications are specific to each case and do not set a
precedent due to the extraordinary and specific circumstances involved with
each case.
   (B)   In modifying the standards and/or requirements of these provisions, as
outlined above, City Council may make such additional requirements as deemed
necessary to be in the best interest of the public, and without creating an
undue hardship upon the applicant, to secure substantially the objectives and
general intent of the standards or requirements so modified.
(Ord. 692-22, passed 5-11-2022)
MAJOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL PROCESS
§ 154.060 GENERAL APPROVAL PROCESS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The process shall be initiated by the holding of a pre-application
meeting with city staff and the applicant, and it shall include the following,
at a minimum:
      (1)   A brief written summary explaining how the applicant is interested
in subdividing the subject property, listing the general number of proposed
lots, streets and any major structures, and a list of any phasing, and the
types of structures to be included in the subdivision, such as: single-family
detached homes, duplexes, multi-family type apartments/condominiums, mobile
homes, or commercial subdivisions; and
      (2)   A location/vicinity map of the area proposed to be subdivided; and
      (3)   A sketch plan showing how the property is proposed to be
subdivided, showing a general layout of the lots, streets, phasing and major
structures, if any are proposed.
   (B)   The applicant shall then prepare and submit the zone change
application package, if required, or the preliminary plat application package,
if no zone change is required.
      (1)   If a zone change is required, refer to §
152.090 of the city Zoning Codes for the process for approval of the requested
zone change.
      (2)   If no zone change is required, the applicant shall submit the
following in one complete preliminary plat application package.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the package, the Director will provide it to all
members of the Site Plan Review Committee (SPRC) and schedule a meeting.
   (D)   No public notice, newspaper ad, posting of signage on the property nor
sending letters to property owners within 300 feet is required for preliminary
or final subdivision plats.
   (E)   City staff will create a staff report based on the findings from the
SPRC for each specific subdivision preliminary or final plat case.
   (F)   The P & Z Commission shall hear the request for a subdivision
preliminary plat and the final plat, where they can vote to recommend approval,
approve with conditions, or deny the request for the preliminary plat and the
final plat.
   (G)   City Council shall hear the request for a subdivision preliminary plat
and final plat, where they can vote to approve, approve with conditions, or
deny the request for the final plat.
   (H)   For final plats, once approved by City Council, the applicant shall
secure all signatures on two Mylar originals and get both recorded with the
Coconino County Recorder's office, and provide one executed original Mylar back
to the city for their records.
(Ord. 692-22, passed 5-11-2022)
§ 154.061 PURPOSE AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   This stage includes preparation, submission, review and approval of the
preliminary plat. Processing will be expedited by submission of all information
essential to determine the intended character and general acceptability of the
proposal.
   (A)   Preliminary plat submission.
      (1)   Filing and meeting dates. An application for plat approval,
together with 15 copies of the Preliminary Plat and one PDF electronic version,
and required supporting data, prepared in accordance with this chapter, shall
be filed with the city at least 14 days prior to the initial meeting with the
Site Plan Review Committee.
      (2)   Zoning amendment. The preliminary plat shall be designed to meet
all requirements of the zoning district in which it is located; however, if an
amendment of zoning is deemed necessary, such application shall accompany
submission of the preliminary plat.
      (3)   Filing fees. Application for preliminary plat approval shall
include payment to the city in accordance with the city's fee schedule. The
filing fee shall also cover filing of the site plan review fee. If it meets all
requirements, the application shall be assigned a case number; otherwise, it
shall be rejected, and the subdivider shall be notified as to the deficiencies.
   (B)   Preliminary plat review.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Site Plan Review Committee to review
the preliminary plat for technical and engineering compliance with this chapter
and to review the plat for compliance with good planning principles.
      (2)   On receipt of the preliminary plat, the Director shall distribute
copies to the Site Plan Review Committee, which includes the following city
staff and outside agencies, and schedule the Site Plan Review Committee meeting
for the next Thursday that is approximately 14 days away:
         (a)   The Site Plan Review Committee shall determine compliance with
provisions of this chapter, the Maricopa Association of Governments (MAG SPEC)
design standards, the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) specifications, and
the appropriate International Building Codes, most current adopted edition(s).
         (b)   The Public Works Director for the review of street plans and
compliance with city street standards, compliance with flood plain regulations,
and for tentative determination of street and drainage improvement
requirements.
         (c)   The Public Utilities Enterprise (PUE) for review of water and
sewage disposal.
         (d)   The Western Area Power Authority (WAPA) for any work involving
their easements.
         (e)   Where the land abuts a state highway, to the Arizona Department
of Transportation (ADOT) for recommendations regarding rights-of-way and
intersection design.
         (f)   The Director shall review the preliminary plat for compliance
with public objectives, giving special attention to design principles and
standards as set forth in this chapter, to utility methods and systems, to
existing and proposed zoning and land use of the tract and environs, and to
land required for schools, parks, open spaces and public facilities.
         (g)   The Public Utilities Enterprise (PUE) for review of the electric
utilities.
         (h)   Fire, police and ambulance departments.
      (3)   The reviewing staff and outside agencies shall bring their review
comments, questions and/or concerns to the Site Plan Review Committee meeting,
to discuss with the applicants and their professional representatives.
   (C)   Site Plan Review Committee (SPRC) meeting and actions.
      (1)   The SPRC shall meet with the applicant/representatives and discuss
the review of the plan.
      (2)   If it appears to the SPRC that the requirements of this chapter
have been met, they shall submit its recommendations to the P & Z Commission
for preliminary plat approval.
      (3)   If satisfied that all objectives of these regulations have been
met, the P & Z Commission shall recommend approval of the preliminary plat to
the City Council.
      (4)   If the plat is generally acceptable but requires minor revision
before preparation of the final plat, the P & Z Commission shall recommend
conditional approval and specify the recommended revisions in its meeting
minutes.
      (5)   If the P & Z Commission determines that the plat contains major
deficiencies, and if the applicant agrees to correct such deficiencies, the
case may be held over pending revision, resubmission and reprocessing;
otherwise, the P & Z Commission shall recommend rejection. If the P & Z
Commission recommends rejection of the plat, reasons for the recommendation
shall be recorded in the minutes. Thereafter, any new filing of a plat for the
same tract, or any part thereof, shall follow normal procedures and be subject
to a new filing fee.
      (6)   The preliminary plat and the P & Z Commission's recommendation
shall be forwarded to the City Council for final action. If Council rejects the
plat, the reasons for rejection shall be recorded in the minutes. Any new
filing of a plat for the same tract, or any part thereof, shall follow normal
procedures and be subject to a new filing fee. If the plat is generally
acceptable but requires minor revisions before preparation of the final plat,
City Council shall find conditional approval and specify the required revision
(s) in its minutes. City Council may empower the Director to review and approve
the plat when so revised.
      (7)   Any zoning change required may be heard by the P & Z Commission at
the same time as the preliminary plat approval, but both cases shall be heard
and acted on separately.
   (D)   Significance of approval.
      (1)   Approval of a preliminary plat constitutes authorization for the
applicant to proceed with the preparation of the final plat and engineering
plans. Preliminary approval is valid for a period of 12 months and may be
extended once for six months at the discretion of the Director if he/she
determines that the subdivision has not been abandoned. The applicant may
submit the final plat, or any part thereof, on or before the expiration date.
If approval expires prior to filing the final plat, the preliminary plat shall
be resubmitted for approval as a new case, and a new fee paid.
      (2)   If the SPRC's review of a resubmitted plat reveals no substantial
change from the previously approved preliminary plat and that conditions under
which previous approval was granted have not changed, the filing fee shall be
refunded and the resubmitted plat rescheduled for hearing by the P & Z
Commission.
   (E)   Information required for preliminary plat submission.
      (1)   Form and scale. Preliminary plat information shall be presented on
one or more plan sheets with written data entered directly thereon or contained
in letters attached thereto. All mapped data for the same plat shall be drawn
at the same standard engineering scale, said scale have not more than 100 feet
to the inch.
      (2)   Identification data.
         (a)   Proposed subdivision name; location by section, township and
range; reference by dimension and bearing to a section corner or 1/4 section
corner.
         (b)   Name, address and phone number of subdivider/applicant.
         (c)   Name, address and phone number of person preparing plat.
         (d)   Scale, north point and date of preparation including any
revision dates.
      (3)   Existing conditions data.
         (a)   Topography by contours, related to USGS survey datum or other
datum approved by the applicant's Design Engineer, shown on same sheet as the
subdivision layout. Contour interval shall usually be: two feet for grades up
to 5%; five feet for grades of 5% to 10%, and ten feet for grades over 10%.
         (b)   Precise location of water wells; washes and drainage ditches,
including direction of flow; location and extent of areas subject to inundation
and data regarding frequency of inundation, and delineation of the 100-Year
Flood Boundary and its elevation.
         (c)   Location, widths and names of all platted streets, alleys,
rights-of-way of public record; public areas and permanent structures to be
retained within or adjacent to tract.
         (d)   Name, book and page numbers of recorded plats abutting the tract
or across a boundary street.
         (e)   Dimensions of tract boundaries and acreage of tract.
      (4)   Proposed conditions data. 
         (a)   Street layout, including location and width of all streets,
alleys, crosswalks and easements and proposed names of streets.
         (b)   Lot layout, including scaled dimensions of typical lots; minimum
and maximum size lots; number of lots; width and depth of all corner lots and
lots on street curves; each lot numbered consecutively and total number of
lots; total acreage; proposed density.
         (c)   Location, width and proposed use of easements.
         (d)   Location, extent and proposed use of all land to be dedicated or
reserved for public use.
         (e)   Location and boundaries of all existing and proposed zoning
classifications.
         (f)   Draft of proposed deed restrictions.
      (5)   Proposed utilities. The preliminary plat shall include the layout
of all proposed utilities. Preliminary drainage calculations and layout of the
proposed storm drainage system shall be submitted, including location of
outlets.
(Ord. 692-22, passed 5-11-2022)
§ 154.062 PURPOSE AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE FINAL PLAT.
   This stage includes final design of the subdivision, final engineering of
public improvements, submittal of plat and plans by the applicant, plat review
by the Site Plan Review Committee and final hearing by the City Council. No
plat shall be submitted for final approval by the City Council until plans for
all off-site improvements have been approved by the Site Plan Review Committee
(SPRC).
   (A)   Pre-submission requirements.
      (1)   Zoning. The final plat shall meet all requirements of the zoning
district in which it is located, and necessary zoning amendments shall have
been adopted by the City Council prior to filing of the final plat.
      (2)   Preparation of final plat. The final plat shall be in substantial
conformance to the approved preliminary plat and be prepared in accordance with
this chapter.
      (3)   Easements. Final plat submission shall include letters signifying
approval of utility easements by the public utilities.
   (B)   Final plat submission. The final plat and four true copies thereof,
plus one PDF electronic version shall be filed with the city at least 21 days
prior to the City Council meeting at which the case is to be heard. City staff
shall record the date of filing. At the time of submission for final plat
approval, a final plat and site plan review fee (when required due to
conformity with preliminary plat) shall be paid in accordance with the city fee
schedule.
      (1)   The Director shall check the submittal for completeness. If
incomplete, it shall be returned to the applicant at the applicant's expense,
and the filing date shall be voided. If complete and if the final plat
substantially conforms to the approved preliminary plat, the Director shall
summarize recommendations for presentation to the City Council.
      (2)   If, in the opinion of the Director, the final plat does not
substantially conform to the approved preliminary plat, the plat shall be
presented to the SPRC for its recommendation to the P&Z Commission.
   (C)   Final plat approval and recordation.
      (1)   Upon notification from the Director that the plat is in order, the
case shall be placed on the agenda of the next regular meeting of the City
Council whereupon they shall approve or reject the plat. If City Council
rejects the plat for any reason whatsoever, the reasons shall be recorded in
the minutes. If City Council approves the plat, the City Clerk shall transcribe
a certificate of approval upon the plat, first making sure that the other
certificates required in this chapter have been duly executed.
      (2)   If the plat is approved, the applicant shall secure all required
signatures and record two original Mylars of the plat in the Coconino County
Recorder's office. The applicant shall pay all recording fees. The applicant
shall provide one Mylar original to the city for its records.
      (3)   All rights-of-way and improvements intended to be dedicated to the
city for maintenance and operation shall be constructed and/or installed within
the time period agreed upon pursuant to an agreement to install improvements.
Dedications and improvements shall not be considered complete until the City
Council, upon recommendation of the Director and Public Works Director, accepts
such dedications and improvements into the city's street and utility system. If
accepted, the City Clerk shall then record such dedications and improvements in
the Coconino County Recorder's office. Engineering plans for required
improvements must be submitted within 90 days after approval of the final plat.
   (D)   Information required for final plat submission.
      (1)   Medium of presentation. 
         (a)   The final plat shall be drawn in India ink on plastic or other
non-shrinking material on a sheet or sheets of 24 inches by 36 inches.
         (b)   The plat shall be drawn to an accurate scale having not more
than 100 feet to one inch.
         (c)   Copies of the final plat shall be reproduced with black ink
prints on a white background.
      (2)   Identification data.
         (a)   Name of subdivision and location by section, township, range and
county.
         (b)   Name, address and registration number or seal of the registered
professional engineer or registered land surveyor preparing the plat.
         (c)   Scale, north point and date of plat preparation.
      (3)   Survey data.
         (a)   Boundaries of the tract fully balanced and closed, showing all
bearings and distances, determined by an accurate survey in the field; all
dimensions expressed in feet and decimals thereof.
         (b)   Any exceptions within the plat boundaries located by bearings
and distances expressed in feet and decimals thereof, determined by an accurate
survey in the field.
         (c)   Location and description of cardinal points to which all
dimensions, angles, bearings and similar data on the plat are referenced; two
corners of the subdivision traverse shall be tied by course and distance to
separate section or quarter section corners.
         (d)   Location and description of all physical encroachments upon
boundaries of the tract.
         (e)   Establish and permanently set a minimum of one elevation
monument for every 20 acres in the proposed subdivision.
      (4)   Descriptive data. 
         (a)   Name, right-of-way lines, courses, lengths, width of all public
streets, alleys, crosswalks, and utility easements; radii points of tangency,
and central angles of all curvilinear streets and alleys and radii of all
rounded street intersections.
         (b)   All drainage ways, designated as such and dedicated to the
public.
         (c)   All utility and public service easements, including any
limitations of easements; construction within such easements shall be limited
to utilities, landscaping and wood, wire or removable section type fences.
         (d)   Location and all dimensions of all lots.
         (e)   All lots numbered consecutively throughout the plat; exceptions
and tracts shall be dimensioned and identified by letter or number.
         (f)   Location of all adjoining subdivisions with date, book and page
number of recordation noted, or if unrecorded, so marked.
         (g)   Any private deed restrictions to be imposed upon the plat or any
part thereof, typewritten and attached to the plat and to each copy thereof.
         (h)   The flood zone as established by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) shall be indicated for each lot or parcel within the
proposed subdivision.
         (i)   Existing and approved future improvements. Required improvements
to be shown on the plat may include streets, utilities, stormwater drainage and
retention, recreation and open space facilities, survey monuments, landscaping,
streetlights, street and traffic control signs, and fencing.
      (5)   Dedication and acknowledge.
         (a)   Streets, rights-of-way and public easements. Statement of
dedication of all streets, alleys, crosswalks, drainage ways and easements for
public purposes by the owners and spouses of the owners; if land to be
dedicated is mortgaged, the mortgagee shall also sign the plat. Dedication
shall include a written description by section, township and range of the
tract. If the plat contains private streets, public utilities shall be reserved
the right to install and maintain utilities in the street rights-of-way. The
applicant's Design Engineer shall establish required dedication language.
         (b)   Private utility easements. All easements required to be
dedicated to a private utility shall be identified on the plat. The final plat
shall contain an offer of dedication for all such easements to the appropriate
utility company. Acceptance of such offers shall be the responsibility of the
utility company.
      (6)   Certifications.
         (a)   Certification by the registered professional engineer or
registered land surveyor making the plat that it is correct and accurate, and
that the monuments described in it have been located as described.
         (b)   Certificates of approval by P & Z Commission.
         (c)   Certificate of approval of the City Council by the City Clerk.
         (d)   Certification of recordation by the Coconino County Recorder.
(Ord. 692-22, passed 5-11-2022)
CONSTRUCTION PLAN SUBMITTAL AND AS-BUILTS
§ 154.075 SITE CONSTRUCTION PLAN REVIEW PROCESS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   This section applies to all single-family residential and commercial site
construction plans for development within the city limits of Page, Arizona. For
the purposes of this chapter, a commercial development is defined as any
residential development larger than a single-family detached residence on a
single lot, and any commercial or industrial building or development for sale
or lease. All commercial developments and all major subdivisions require the
review and approval by the Site Plan Review Committee before any building
permits can be submitted for review, and before any preliminary or final plats
can be reviewed by the P & Z Commission or City Council for approval.
Noncommercial single-family residential developments only require the site and
building permit review and approval from the Chief Building Official/Building
Inspector. All residential developments are reviewed and approved in accordance
with the residential building and development codes, the most current adopted
editions. All commercial and industrial developments are reviewed and approved
in accordance with the commercial building and development codes, the most
current adopted editions. The following requirements shall apply to all
commercial developments:
   (A)   Commercial site plans shall be submitted as a complete package to city
staff. Partial/incomplete submittals and/or partial submittals by different
entities will not be accepted and they will be returned to the applicant at
their expense. The city will not be responsible for coordinating partial
submittals at different times and/or from different entities. Complete site
plan submittals shall be submitted in the following format:
      (1)   A completed City of Page application for construction plan
submittal.
      (2)   One electronic version of the complete site plan in PDF format for
distribution purposes.
      (3)   Two bound sets of the complete site plan on 24 inch by 36 inch
paper with a white background.
      (4)   Supporting documentation, studies or reports shall be submitted the
same as divisions (A)(2) and (3) above. The city will not make paper copies for
the applicant to complete the applicant's application package, including
construction plans, supporting documentation, studies or reports.
      (5)   If the development requires fire sprinklers or fire protection due
to code requirements, a third complete set of paper plans shall be submitted
for the Fire Marshal's review and approval.
   (B)   For a site plan to be considered complete, it must include and show
the following, at a minimum:
      (1)   All buildings, structures and above and below ground utilities that
will be built on the site; and
      (2)   All public/private rights-of-way, easements, and all areas to be
designated as open space; and
      (3)   All sidewalks, paths, and vehicular, pedestrian, equestrian and/or
bicycle travel ways; and
      (4)   All areas to be designated for parking, driveways and loading/
unloading zones or areas; and
      (5)   All ADA required van/vehicular parking spaces, sidewalks, ramps,
and crosswalks; and
      (6)   All site required landscaping, screen-fencing and all areas
designated for landscaping; and
      (7)   All site drainage, retention or detention holding ponds, with
appropriate calculations; and
      (8)   All site signage, whether for directional or advertisement
purposes, with specifications; and
      (9)   All property boundaries and measurements for all the above from the
property boundaries; and
      (10)   All topographic and/or geologic issues that will affect the
development of the site; and
      (11)   Anything else added or removed from the site in order for the
development to be completed.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the complete site plan package, city staff will
distribute the PDF version of it to all members of the Site Plan Review
Committee (SPRC) and schedule a formal SPRC meeting. The applicant and/or their
civil design engineer is required to attend said meeting either in person or
via videoconferencing, to answer any questions posed by the members at the
meeting.
   (D)   Once the site plan has received approval from the SPRC, and the Fire
Marshal when required, and any other required outside agencies, the applicant
shall then work directly with the city's Chief Building Official/Building
Inspector to pull any building permits required for construction of the site,
such as: grubbing and grading, foundations and utilities, and so on.
   (E)   Building permits for signage, landscaping, structures and buildings
located on the site can then be pulled, as approved by the Director, Building
Inspector, and Fire Marshal as required, in accordance with the requirements
outlined in §
154.076.
(Ord. 692-22, passed 5-11-2022)
§ 154.076 BUILDING CONSTRUCTION PLAN REVIEW PROCESS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   Any applications for building permits shall be made directly through the
city's Chief Building Official/Building Inspector, regardless of whether for a
residential, commercial or industrial development. This includes any
applications for site development, including grubbing, clearing, grading,
foundations, utilities, signage, building construction, or any type of building
demolition.
   (A)   Applications for all building or demolition permits shall be submitted
as a complete package to the Chief Building Official/Building Inspector.
Partial and/or incomplete submittals and/or submittals submitted by different
entities will not be accepted and they will be returned to the applicant at the
expense of the applicant. The city will not be responsible for coordinating
partial submittals. Complete site plan submittals shall be submitted in the
following format:
      (1)   A completed City of Page application for a building, signage or
demolition permit.
      (2)   One electronic version of the building or demolition plans in PDF
format for our records.
      (3)   Two bound sets of the complete building or demolition permit plans
on 24 inch by 36 inch paper with a white background.
      (4)   Supporting documentation, studies or reports shall be submitted the
same as divisions (A)(2) and (3). The city will not make paper copies for the
applicant to complete the applicant's application package, including
construction plans, supporting documentation, studies or reports.
      (5)   If the development requires fire sprinklers or fire protection due
to code requirements, a third complete set of paper plans shall be submitted
for the Fire Marshal's review and approval.
   (B)   Application packets for a building, signage or demolition permit shall
include everything required by the most current adopted editions of the
International Building Codes (IBC), the International Residential Codes (IRC),
the Fire, Electrical and Plumbing Codes, the MAG SPECS, and the city Zoning
Codes, as required and as amended and adopted by City Council from time to
time.
(Ord. 692-22, passed 5-11-2022)
§ 154.077 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY AND TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   The city's Chief Building Official/Building Inspector is the city's
representative authorized to issue either a Temporary Certificate of Occupancy
(TCO) or final Certificate of Occupancy (C of O). A TCO may be issued at the
Building Inspector's discretion for either 30, 60 or 90 days, as requested by
the applicant and as circumstances present at the site dictate, warranting the
issuance of a TCO instead of a final C of O. No occupancy of any structures
shall be allowed until all of the required subdivision improvements are
complete and have been approved by the Chief Building Official.
(Ord. 692-22, passed 5-11-2022)
§ 154.078 AS-BUILT SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS FOR THE CITY AND PAGE UTILITY
ENTERPRISES.
   Following are the requirements for as-built drawings that must be provided
to the City of Page and the Page Utility Enterprises, before any utility
services can be provided to the site:
   (A)   As-builts shall be provided to the city and to Page Utility
Enterprises in three different formats:
      (1)   A copy of the working drawing which is the approved site
construction and utility plan with changes marked in red per these
requirements.
      (2)   A paper copy with only the actual constructed utilities (not as-
design utilities) shown on it stamped and signed by a registered Arizona
engineer with the sheet labeled "as-built".
      (3)   An electronic AutoCAD file with only the actual constructed
utilities (not as-design utilities).
   (B)   Contractor shall keep a working drawing onsite for viewing by the
city/utilities at any time. The working drawing shall have all changes shown in
red.
   (C)   When changes occur, such as pipe sizes, lengths, etc., a line or "X"
shall be drawn through the changes with the actual installed size, material,
quantity, etc. written next to the change. Improvements deleted in the field
shall be crossed out with an "X" and labeled "not built" or "not installed".
The following additional requirements shall be provided and shown on all as-
builts:
      (1)   Provide exact details of changes or additional information,
including but not limited to fabrication, erection, installation, location,
sizing, material, dimensions, etc.
      (2)   Provide project control information, including coordinate system
and vertical datum basis.
      (3)   Water systems shall show bends, valves, fire hydrants, blow-offs,
air release valves, water meters, services, thrust blocks, etc. Pipes shall be
labeled with the type of pipe, size, length and depth to top of pipe.
Horizontal bend locations shall be determined by surveying, include coordinates
on as-builts.
      (4)   Sewer systems shall show inverts in and out and lid elevations of
manholes, cleanouts, services, lift stations, etc. Pipes shall be labeled with
the type of pipe, size, length and slope. Inverts shall be determined by
surveying.
      (5)   Storm drain systems shall show invert and grate/opening elevations
and length of curb inlet for the catch basins. Pipes shall be labeled with type
of pipe, size, length and slope. Inverts shall be determined by surveying.
      (6)   Electric utilities shall show the location of transformers, j-
boxes, conduit, light poles, and the number of conduit and size shall be
labeled on the drawing as well as any spare conduits.
      (7)   Gas/propane utility line location and size shall be shown on the
as-builts.
      (8)   Cable and communication utility lines and size shall be shown on
the as-builts.
      (9)   All existing and any new easements shall be shown on the paper and
electronic as-builts.
      (10)   Any utility crossings shall be detailed with the depths and
separation between utilities.
      (11)   Any changes or special situations that can't be shown clearly on
the drawing shall be shown in a blown-up detail. Such as bends used to raise or
lower a waterline.
      (12)   If utilities share the same trench, a cross section of the trench
shall be provided.
   (D)   No utility services will be provided to the site or development until
all as-builts are provided.
(Ord. 692-22, passed 5-11-2022)
REVERSION OF SUBDIVIDED LAND
§ 154.090 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter establishes the procedures for the reversion of acreage of
any subdivided lands under single ownership into one parent parcel, upon
recommendation of approval by staff and City Council.
(Ord. 692-22, passed 5-11-2022)
§ 154.091 REVERSION REQUEST REQUIRED.
   To initiate a reversion of acreage, a written request for reversion must be
filed with the Planning and Zoning Department staff. The request shall include
the reason for the request, proof of single ownership of all properties,
supporting documentation substantiating the need for the reversion, and the
appropriate fee for the reversion as established in city planning and zoning
fee schedule. Upon receipt of a complete application for reversion to acreage,
city staff shall investigate the case and property and prepare a report for
presentation to the City Council at a public meeting.
(Ord. 692-22, passed 5-11-2022)
§ 154.092 NOTIFICATION AND ADVERTISEMENT.
   None required.
(Ord. 692-22, passed 5-11-2022)
§ 154.093 ACTION BY THE CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall conduct a public meeting to hear the request for
reversion to acreage and they shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny
the application. Any action to approve shall be based on the following findings
and any specific conditions of approval:
   (A)   That the subdivided lands to revert to acreage are all under single
ownership; and
   (B)   That no immediate use of such subdivided lands as they were intended
appears imminent; and
   (C)   That such reversion to acreage will not be detrimental to the general
welfare of the public.
(Ord. 692-22, passed 5-11-2022)
§ 154.094 RECORDING THE SURVEY/PLAT.
   The applicant shall record the survey/plat with the Coconino County Recorder
for all lands approved for reversion to acreage prepared by a State of Arizona
licensed land surveyor or engineer, along with a copy of the abandonment of
subdivision which shall be filed with the Arizona Department of Real Estate.
(Ord. 692-22, passed 5-11-2022)
ABANDONMENT OR VACATION OF PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 154.105 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this division is to provide procedures for the abandonment or
vacation of public rights-of-way or portions thereof (which could include
dedicated public streets, alleys, travel ways or open space).
(Ord. 692-22, passed 5-11-2022)
§ 154.106 PROCESS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Initiation. The abandonment or vacation of public right-of-way may be
initiated by the City Council, City Manager, Public Works Director, Director,
or any property owner who owns land adjoining the public right-of-way under
consideration for abandonment or vacation. If the application is made by a
private property owner, the appropriate fee shall be paid as established in the
city planning and zoning fee schedule. If the city initiates the process, no
fee is charged for this abandonment/vacation request. As applicable, A.R.S. §§
28-7201 et seq. will govern this process. Otherwise, the processes outlined
herein will control.
   (B)   Process.
      (1)   The process shall be initiated by written request for abandonment/
vacation by any authorized entity, and it shall include the following, at a
minimum: A location map of the area proposed to be abandoned/vacated; the
subject right-of-way; any abutting properties; a vicinity map, if necessary;
and a memorandum stating the reasons for requesting the abandonment or
vacation.
      (2)   The information for the requested abandonment/vacation shall be
forwarded to all public utility companies, applicable city departments and
outside agencies serving the proposed area to be abandoned/vacated to request
their review and comments.
      (3)   For public rights-of-way, including roadways as defined in A.R.S. §
28-7201, notice shall be provided as specified in A.R.S. § 28-7202 Disposition
of Unnecessary Public Roadways.
      (4)   The City Council shall hear the request at their next regularly
scheduled meeting as a public hearing, where they can vote to approve, approve
with conditions, or deny the request.
   (C)   Staff report. City staff shall prepare and transmit a staff report to
the City Council. The report shall include an evaluation of the practicality of
the proposed vacation/abandonment with the General Plan, Zoning Code, and any
other applicable city plans, and all applicable utilities and Public Works
Department standards. The staff report shall also provide an analysis and
recommendation. A copy of the staff report shall be made available to the
public and any affected parties prior to the public hearing.
   (D)   Notification and advertisement. For public rights-of-way only,
including roadways as defined in A.R.S. § 28-7201, notice shall be provided as
specified in A.R.S. § 28-7202, Disposition of Unnecessary Public Roadways.
   (E)   Action by the City Council. The City Council shall conduct a public
hearing. Upon completion of this hearing, Council shall approve, approve with
conditions, or deny the application. Approval shall be made by resolution.
(Unless specifically approved otherwise, vacated/abandoned public rights-of-way
property shall equally revert to the property owners on either side of
vacation/abandonment.)
(Ord. 692-22, passed 5-11-2022)
§ 154.107 EFFECTIVE DATE AND RECORDING VACATION RESOLUTION AND/OR PLAT.
   The effective date of vacation of public rights-of-way is the date of City
Council approval. Upon approval, the Director shall be responsible for
recording the final vacation resolution and/or plat with the Coconino County
Recorder's office.
(Ord. 692-22, passed 5-11-2022)
§ 154.108 APPEALS.
   Decisions of the City Council on the vacation of streets, rights-of-way and
easements are final.
(Ord. 692-22, passed 5-11-2022)
ANNEXATION
§ 154.120 ANNEXATION.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide procedures
consistent with applicable state requirements for the annexation of real
property into the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   Initiation of annexations. Following are the requirements for
initiating an annexation procedure:
      (1)   Council or City Manager. The City Council or City Manager may
direct staff to review specific property to determine whether it may be legally
annexed and to contact property owners to determine whether they will sign an
annexation petition in support.
      (2)   Property owner initiation. One or more property owners may submit
an application to annex property owned by them into the city.
   (C)   Process. All annexation proceedings shall be conducted in conformance
with A.R.S. § 9-471 and any other applicable state law requirements for the
annexation of land into the city.
   (D)   Application. The application shall include at a minimum a site survey,
legal description, and a notarized letter requesting application from all
involved property owners.
(Ord. 692-22, passed 5-11-2022)
VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES
§ 154.130 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   It shall be a Class 1 misdemeanor to violate any provision of this
chapter, or to achieve, or attempt to achieve a land split or combination, or
to establish, or attempt to establish a subdivision of any land, or to record,
or attempt to record a subdivision plat, land split or combination or boundary
line adjustment of any land within the City of Page corporate limits with the
Coconino County Recorder if such land split, combination, adjustment,
subdivision, plat or map has not first been approved by the City Council or
Director, as required, or the necessary signatures of approval have not been
obtained, as required by this chapter.
   (B)   The city shall not issue any building or other development permit for
property that has been divided without meeting the requirements of these
subdivision regulations.
   (C)   Nothing contained in these subdivision regulations shall be construed
as relieving an applicant from the requirements imposed by the Arizona Revised
Statutes.
   (D)   Until a preliminary plat and final plat of subdivision, as applicable,
have been approved in accordance with these subdivision regulations, no person
proposing a subdivision within the city shall subdivide or file a record of
survey, map or plat for record, or sell any part of a subdivision, or proceed
with any improvement or other work on same.
(Ord. 692-22, passed 5-11-2022)
APPEALS
§ 154.140 APPEAL DECISION MADE BY THE DIRECTOR.
   (A)   Discretionary decisions of the Director may be appealed to the Board
of Adjustment when such decisions involve one or more of the following:
      (1)   Any requirement that exceeds or is in addition to the minimum
development requirements as defined in this chapter.
      (2)   Any requirement not specified in the Page City Code or other
legislative act of the City of Page.
      (3)   Any requirement resulting from a discretionary act of an
administrative official of the City of Page.
   (B)   Appeals to the Board of Adjustment may be submitted by the developer
or owner of the property proposed for development which is affected by a
discretionary decision of the Director. The appeal shall be submitted within 30
days of such decision by filing with the Director a notice of appeal. No fee is
required for this appeal.
   (C)   The Hearing Officer shall schedule a time for the appeal to be heard,
which shall be no later than 30 days from receipt of the appeal. The appellant
shall be given at least ten days' prior notice of the date and time set for the
hearing. The Hearing Officer shall decide the appeal within five working days
from the date the appeal hearing concludes.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment shall act upon the appeal within 45 days of
the date upon which the appeal was filed with the Director, unless
circumstances beyond the control of the Board of Adjustment require a longer
review period. In this case, the Director shall notify the appellant when the
appeal will be heard, but in no case shall the review period be longer than 60
days from the date the appeal is filed with the city.
(Ord. 692-22, passed 5-11-2022)
§ 154.141 APPEAL DECISION MADE BY THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   A person aggrieved by a decision of the Board of Adjustment may file a
complaint for special action in the superior court to review the Board of
Adjustment decision. All appeals shall be filed within 30 calendar days of the
Board of Adjustment decision.
(Ord. 692-22, passed 5-11-2022)
DEFINITION OF TERMS
§ 154.155 DEFINITION OF TERMS.
   As used in this chapter, the following terms and phrases shall have the
meaning ascribed to them in this section, unless the context in which they are
used clearly requires otherwise.
   ALLEY. A minor way (public or private) that is used primarily for vehicular
access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
   APPLICANT. Any person applying for any permit, approval or decision governed
or required by this chapter.
   BLOCK. That property abutting one side of a street and lying between the two
nearest intersections or intercepting streets on subdivided land.
   CITY COUNCIL. The governing body of the City of Page, Arizona.
   COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT. A commercial development is defined as any
residential development larger than a single-family detached residence on a
single lot, and any commercial or industrial building or development for sale
or lease. All commercial developments and all major subdivisions require the
review and approval by the Site Plan Review Committee before any building
permits can be submitted for review, and before any preliminary or final plats
can be reviewed by the P & Z Commission or City Council for approval.
   CONSTRUCTION PLANS. The set of documents which will govern the development
and/or construction of buildings, structures, infrastructure, and development
sites, whether located on a single lot or subdivision, which includes the
following:
   (1)   CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS. Specific and detailed graphical representation
of the work which will be completed in constructing a building, structure or a
lot for development.
   (2)   CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS. Written directions coordinated with the
construction drawings, which detail materials, construction methods, quantities
of work and/or design specifications.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A local street, one end of which is closed and consists of a
circular turn around.
   DIRECTOR/PLANNING DIRECTOR. The Director of the City Planning and Zoning
Department.
   EASEMENT. Is a right to use a portion of the land of another for a special
purpose or public use such as, by way of example, vehicular or transportation
access, drainage, or public utilities.
   ENGINEERING STANDARDS. For the development of subdivisions, streets, and all
public utilities and infrastructure, the City of Page engineering design and
construction standards for development are in accordance with the most current
adopted editions of the International Building Codes (IBC), the International
Residential Codes (IRC), the appropriate Fire, Electrical and Plumbing Codes,
the City of Page Zoning Code, the Maricopa Association of Governments Standard
Specifications and Details for Public Works Construction (MAG SPECS), and the
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) requirements, as may be required and as
amended from time to time.
   LOT. A single tract or piece of property located in a recorded subdivision
having frontage on a publicly dedicated and accepted street or a private road
approved by the city that is described and denoted as such. A lot also includes
a parcel of land, shown in the records of the Coconino County Assessor's
office, divided to be used separately from other parcels of property by
description, as on a recorded survey map or by metes and bounds for purposes of
sale, lease or separate use in a legal manner pursuant to all state, county and
city requirements for the development and proposed use of that property.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot having frontage on two public streets which intersect at
a corner of the lot.
   LOT, DOUBLE-FRONTAGE. A lot which abuts a street on two opposing ends. The
rear lot line shall be established as that side of the lot that abuts an
arterial street, highway or other disadvantaged use.
   MAJOR SUBDIVISION. 
      (1)   Improved or unimproved land or lands divided for the purpose of
financing, sale or lease, whether immediate or future, and whether zoned as
residential, commercial or industrial, into:
         (a)   Four or more lots, tracts or parcels of land;
         (b)   If a new street is involved, any such property which is divided
into two or more lots, tracts, or parcels of land; or
         (c)   Any such property, the boundaries of which have been fixed by a
recorded plat, which is divided into more than two parts.
      (2)   SUBDIVISION also includes any condominium, cooperative, community
apartment, townhouse, or similar project containing two or more parcels, in
which an undivided interest in the land is coupled with the right of exclusive
occupancy of any unit located within the subdivision, but plats of such
projects need not show the buildings or the manner in which the buildings or
airspace above the property shown on the plat are to be divided. Subdivision
does not include the following:
         (a)   The sale or exchange of parcels of land to or between adjoining
property owners if such sale or exchange does not create additional lots.
         (b)   The partitioning of land in accordance with other statutes
regulating the partitioning of land held in common ownership.
         (c)   The leasing of apartments, offices, stores, or similar space
within a building or trailer park, nor to mineral, oil, or gas leases.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. The same as major subdivision but with three lots or less
and not including any streets, more commonly known as land splits or
combinations, and boundary line adjustments between lots, and not involving
more than three lots, unless the result of the combination is three lots or
less.
   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION (P & Z COMMISSION). The designated advisory
agency to the City Council on all matters pertaining to planning and zoning
cases and development of the city, including current and long-range planning.
Serves as the steering committee for any updates and rewrites to the City
Subdivision and Zoning Codes and the City General Plan, all of which are
amended from time to time, as required by state statutes and as development
needs and/or trends dictate.
   PLAT/SURVEY. Means a map drawn by a land surveyor or civil engineer licensed
in the State of Arizona to draw a single lot or multiple lots onto a map where
all lots are bound by property boundary lines, and it may or may not include
streets and other rights-of-way, easements, building setbacks, contour lines,
floodplains, topographical issues, dimensions, where everything has been
surveyed in the filed for accuracy.
   RIGHT(S)-OF-WAY. A public way established or dedicated for public purposes
by duly recorded plat, deed, grant, governmental authority, or by operation of
the law.
   SKETCH PLAT. Means a drawing sketched by hand which is preparatory to a
preliminary plat, site or development plan, which are drawn by land surveyors
or engineers, for the purpose of a pre-application meeting for discussions with
all involved parties to demonstrate meeting development requirements
established by the city through this chapter, the Zoning Codes and/or other
city documents, plans and maps.
(Ord. 692-22, passed 5-11-2022)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Rezoning Parcel 800-12-026W consisting of approximately
                     20,473 square feet of lot area, generally located south of
627-15   1-13-2016   North Navajo Drive and east of 4th Avenue from a zoning
                     designation of RM, Multi-Family to CBD, Central Business
                     District
                     Rezoning parcel of land consisting of approximately 3.05
                     acres, identified as Parcel 801-04-001Y, generally located
641-17   12-13-2017  on the south side of Lake Powell Blvd. just west of Elk
                     Road from a zoning designation of PD, Planned Development
                     to PDC, Planned Development Commercial
                     Rezoning parcel of land identified as Parcel 801-13-003D,
                     located at the intersection of North Navajo Drive and 13th
651-18   11-28-2018  Avenue, from a zoning designation of PDR, Planned
                     Development Residential and RM, Multi-Family Residential,
                     to PDMR, Planned Development Multiple Residence
                     Rezoning parcel of land identified as Parcel 800-12-025,
652-18   11-28-2018  located at the intersection of Elm Street and 5th Avenue,
                     from RM, Multiple-Family Residential, to CBD, Central
                     Business District
                     Rezoning parcel of land identified as Parcel No. 801-01-
657-19   5-8-2019    009S, located at amended Lot1D, Block 273, Amended Major
                     Subdivision, from PD, Planned Development, to C-3,
                     Regional Commercial District
                     Rezoning parcel of land identified as Parcel No. 801-14-
663-19   12-11-2019  010, located East of Clubhouse Drive, from PDGC, Planned
                     Development Golf Course District, to RM, Multiple- Family
                     Residential.
                     Rezoning parcel of land identified as Lot 2B Block 16A
669-20   2-26-2020   from Central Business District (CBD) to Community
                     Commercial District (C-2).
                     Rezoning parcel of land identified as Parcel No. 802-10-
                     020K from Service Commercial (SC) and Future Development
672-20   5-27-2020   (FD) to Manufactured Home Park (MHP) and Community
                     Commercial District (C-2) with Planned Area Development
                     (PAD) overlay. Ordinance and exhibit are on file at city
                     hall with the Clerk.
                     Rezoning two parcels of land identified as Parcel Nos.
                     801-15-008B and 801-15-008E from Planned Recreation
675-20   8-12-2020   Development (PRD) to Community Commercial District (C-2)
                     and a parcel of land identified as Parcel No. 801-01-002L
                     from Planned Development Golf Course (PDGC) to Community
                     Commercial District (C-2).
                     Rezoning approximately 57 acres of a portion of Sections 5
687-22   2-9-2022    and 6 of Township 40 North, Range 9 East, Gila and Salt
                     River Base and Meridian, from Planned Development (PD) to
                     Small Lot Residential-2 (R-2).
688-22   2-9-2022    Rezoning Lot 4A-2 from Planned Development (PD) to
                     Multifamily Residential-3 (RM).
693-22   4-27-2022   Rezoning Parcel No. 80218008Y from Planned Development
                     (PD) to Service Commercial (SC).
694-22   6-22-2022   Rezoning Parcel No. 80101009N from Planned Development
                     (PD) to Regional Commercial (C-3).
695-22   6-22-2022   Rezoning Parcel No. 80218008W from Planned Development
                     (PD) to Single-Family Residential-5 (R1-5).
                     Rezoning two parcels of land identified as Nos. 80113003W
696-22   8-24-2022   and 80113007 from Planned Development (PD) and Planned
                     Development Multiple Residence (PDRM) to Multiple Family
                     Residential-3 (RM).
                     Rezoning 18 parcels of land identified as Nos. 80216017,
                     80102019, 80102003C, 80102017, 80101009Y, 80101009W,
                     80101009V, 80101009Z, 80102011 and 80102016 from Planned
                     Development (PD); and, Nos. 80112003Y, 80115008D,
702-23   2-22-2023   80115006A, 80115002 and 80115001 from Planned Recreation
                     Development (PRD); and No. 80216010 from Future
                     Development (FD); and Nos. 80101009N and 80101016 from
                     Regional Commercial (C-3), and where two of these parcels,
                     Nos. 80216017 and 80112003Y are also requesting a Mixed-
                     Use Overlay District on top of the C-2 Zoning.
                     Rezoning 13 parcels to: parcel numbers 80106012 and
                     80106036B from Small Lot Residential (R-2) to Community
                     Commercial (C-2); parcel numbers 80106036A, 80106036C,
                     80106036D, and 80106036E from Small Lot Residential (R-2)
712-23   9-27-2023   to Public/Quasi-Public (PQP); parcel numbers 80106001,
                     80106002, 80106005, 80106006, 80106007, and 80106008 from
                     Single-Family Residential (R1-7) to Community Commercial
                     (C-2); and parcel number 80106029A from Planned
                     Development (PD) to Community Commercial (C-2).
                     Rezoning 16 parcels to: Single-Family Residential (R1-8)
                     for parcels 80112004A, 80112015V and 80112016; to Single-
                     Family Residential (R1-5) for parcel 80218011F; and to
714-23   10-25-2023  Community Commercial (C-2) for parcels 80115002N,
                     80115008B, 80115008E, 80101002L, 80101002M, 80101002N and
                     80216013B; and to Business Park (BP) for parcels 80210020D
                     and 80210020R; and to Service Commercial (SC) for the
                     rodeo grounds parcels 80209001, 80209002 and 80209003.
730-24   8-21-2024   Rezoning Parcel No. 80114001V from Planned Development
                     Multi-Family (PDRM) to Community Commercial (C-2).
                     Rezoning Parcel No. 80218011K from Future Development (FD)
                     to Multi-Family Residential (RM); Parcel 80210020T from
                     Future Development (FD), Planned Development Business Park
                     (PDBP) & Planned Development Industrial (PDI) to Business
                     Park (BP); three parcels No. 80216009K, 80216009L &
                     80216009M from Planned Development (PD) & Future
734-24   10-23-2024  Development (FD) to Community Commercial (C-2); Parcel No.
                     80216009N from Planned Development (PD) to Multi-Family
                     Residential (RM); two parcels No. 80220005B & 80220005C
                     from Future Development (FD) & Planned Development (PD) to
                     Community Commercial (C-2); Parcel No. 80110001N from
                     Future Development (FD) to Airport Residential Special
                     District (ARSD).
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Arizona Revised Statutes
References to 1976 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ARIZONA REVISED STATUTES
A.R.S. Reference Code Section
A.R.S. Reference                Code Section
1-211 through 1-215             10.05
3-201                           91.02
Title 4                         31.40
4-101(7)(a)(b) or (c)        96.01
Title 8                         131.99
9-240(B)(7)                     35.35
9-461                           152.001
9-461.02                        152.072
9-461.06                        152.086
9-462                           152.001
9-462.01(A)                     152.087
9-462.01(e)                     152.090
9-462.03                        152.086
9-462.04                        152.086,
                                152.089
9-462.05                        152.074
9-462.05.A                      152.074
9-462.05.B                      152.074
                                31.42,
9-462.06                        152.073,
                                152.074
9-463.02                        152.137
9-471                           152.096
9-499                           91.10,
                                152.109
9-500.05                        152.006
9-500.12G                       152.086
9-500.21                        91.10
9-500.22                        34.04
9-821.01                        30.035
9-833                           152.074
9-835                           152.086
11-1014.C                       90.07
12-1134                         152.007
Title 13                        10.99,
                                93.99
Title 13, Chapter 34.1          31.40
13-3401                         95.02
16-1019                         152.137
Title 28, Chapter 3, Article 14 72.07
Title 28, Chapter 6, Article 5  31.40
28-7201                         154.106
28-7201 et seq.                 154.106
28-7202                         154.106
28-8461                         152.086
31-332 et seq.                  35.19
36-1601                         92.20
38-260                          30.007
36-601.01                       95.02
36-2801 et al.                  95.06
36-2801(11)                     152.137
36-2801(12)                     95.02
36-2801(13)                     152.137
36-2804(B)(1)(c)                152.045
36-2851 et al.                  95.10
38-431.02(J)                    30.052,
                                30.055
38-431.03                       30.052
38-431.06                       30.052
38-466                          31.58
38-847                          31.25
41-2574                         32.020
42-5001                         95.08
42-12001                        152.045
Title 48, Chapter 21, Article I 153.01,
                                153.04
48-3609(H)                      153.12
48-3610(E)                      153.01
48-3615                         153.04
49-701                          50.01
                                
 
REFERENCES TO 1976 CODE
1976 Code Section Code Section
1976 Code Section Code Section
1-3               10.05
1-8               10.99
2-1-1             30.001
2-1-2             30.002
2-1-3             30.003
2-1-4             30.004
2-1-5             30.005
2-1-6             30.006
2-1-7             30.007
2-1-8d            30.008
2-2-1             30.020
2-2-2             30.021
2-2-3             30.022
2-2-5             30.023
2-2-6             30.024
2-3-1             30.035
2-3-2             30.036
2-3-3             30.037
2-3-4             30.038
2-3-5             30.039
2-4-1             30.050
2-4-2             30.051
2-4-3             30.052
2-4-4             30.053
2-4-5             30.054
2-4-6             30.055
2-4-7             30.056
2-4-8             30.057
2-4-9             30.058
2-5-1             30.070
2-5-2             30.071
2-5-4             30.073
2-5-5             30.074
2-5-6             30.075
2-5-7             30.076
2-5-8             30.077
2-5-9             30.078
2-8-1             31.55,
                  31.56
2-8-2             31.57
2-8-3             31.58
2-8-4             31.59
2-8-5             31.60
2-8-6             31.61
3-1-1             33.01
3-1-2             33.02
3-1-3             33.03
3-1-4             33.04
3-1-5             33.05
3-1-6             33.06
3-2-1             33.20
3-2-2             33.21
3-2-3             33.22
3-2-4             33.23
3-2-5             33.24
3-2-6             33.25
3-3-1             33.40
3-3-2             33.41
3-3-3             33.42
3-3-4             33.43
3-4-1             32.015
3-4-2             32.017
3-4-3             32.018
3-4-4             32.019
3-4-5             32.020
3-4-6             32.021
3-4-7             32.022
3-4-8             32.023
3-4-9             32.024
3-5-1             32.035
3-5-2             32.036
3-5-3             32.037
3-5-4             32.038
3-5-5             32.039
3-5-6             32.040
3-6-1             32.055
3-6-2             32.056
3-7-1             32.070
3-7-2             32.071
3-7-3             32.072
3-7-4             32.073
3-7-5             32.999
3-8-1             32.085
3-8-2             32.086
3-8-3             32.087
3-8-4             32.088
3-8-5             32.999
3-9-1             93.01
3-9-2             93.02
3-9-3             93.03
3-9-4             93.04
3-9-5             93.05
3-9-6             93.99
4-1-1             35.15
4-1-2             35.16
4-1-3             35.17
4-1-4             35.18
4-1-5             35.19
4-1-6             35.20
4-2-1             35.35
4-2-2             35.36
4-2-3             35.37
4-2-7             35.38
4-2-8             35.39
4-2-9             35.40
4-2-10            35.41
4-3-1             92.01
4-3-2             92.02
4-3-3             92.03
4-3-4             92.04
4-3-5             92.05
4-4               35.01
4-5-1             92.20
4-5-2             92.21
4-5-3             92.22
4-5-4             92.23
4-5-5             92.24
4-5-6             92.25
4-5-7             92.26
5-1               34.01
5-2               34.02
5-3               34.03
5-4               34.04
6-1               90.01
6-2               90.02
6-3               90.03
6-4               90.04
6-5               90.05
6-6               90.06
6-7               90.07
6-8               90.08
6-9               90.09
7-1-1             150.01
7-1-1.01          150.02
7-1-2             150.03
7-1-3             150.04
7-2               150.05
7-3               150.06
7-4               150.07
7-6               150.12
8-1-1             112.01
8-1-2             112.02
8-1-3             112.03
8-1-4             112.04
8-1-5             112.05
8-1-6             112.06
8-1-7             112.07
8-2               110.01
9-1-1             91.01
9-1-2             91.02
9-1-3             91.03
9-1-4             91.04
9-1-5             91.05
9-1-6             91.06
9-1-7             91.07
9-1-8             91.08
9-1-8.1           91.09
9-1-8.2           91.10
9-1-8.3           91.11
9-1-8.4           91.12
9-2-1             50.01
9-2-2             50.02
9-2-3             50.03
9-5-1             94.01
9-5-2             94.02
9-5-3             94.03
9-5-4             94.04
9-5-5             94.05
9-5-6             94.06
9-5-7             94.07
9-5-8             94.08
9-5-9             94.09
9-5-10            94.10
9-5-11            94.11
9-5-12            94.12
9-5-13            94.13
9-5-14            94.14
9-5-15            94.15
10-1-2            130.01
10-1-3            130.02
10-1-4            130.03
10-1-5            130.04
10-1-6            130.05
10-1-7            130.06
10-1-9            130.07
10-1-10           130.08
10-1-11           130.09
10-1-12           130.10
10-1-13           130.11
10-1-14           130.12
10-1-15           130.13
10-1-16           130.14
10-1-17           130.15
10-1-18           130.16
10-1-19           130.17
10-1-20           130.18
10-1-21           130.19
10-1-22           130.20
10-1-23           130.21
10-1-24           130.22
10-1-25           130.23
10-1-26           130.24
10-1-26.3         130.99
10-2-1            131.01
10-2-2            131.02
10-2-3            131.03
10-2-4            131.04
10-2-5            131.05
10-2-6            131.06
10-2-7            131.99
12-1-1            70.01
12-1-2            70.02
12-1-3            70.03
12-1-4            70.04
12-1-5            70.05
12-2-1            71.01
12-2-2            71.02,
                  71.99
12-2-3            71.03
12-2-4            71.04
12-2-5            71.05
12-2-6            71.06
12-2-7            71.07
12-2-8            71.08
12-2-9            71.09
12-2-10           71.10
12-2-11           71.11
12-2-12           71.12
12-2-13           71.13
12-2-13           71.99
12-2-14           71.14
12-3-1            72.01
12-3-2            72.02
12-3-3            72.03
12-3-4            72.04
12-3-5            72.05
12-3-6            72.06
12-3-7            72.07
12-3-8            72.08
12-3-9            72.09
12-4-1            73.01
12-4-2            73.02
14-1              151.01
14-2              151.02
14-3              151.03
14-4              151.04
14-5              151.05
14-6              151.06
14-7              151.07
14-8              151.08
14-9              151.09
14-10             151.10
15-1-1            31.01
15-1-2            31.02
15-1-3            31.03
15-1-4            31.04
15-1-5            31.05
15-1-6            31.06
15-1-7            31.07
15-1-8            31.08
15-2-1            31.20
15-2-3            31.22
15-2-4            31.23
15-2-5            31.24
15-2-6            31.25
15-2-8            31.27
15-3-1            31.40
15-3-2            31.41
15-3-3            31.42
                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
183-87   - -         32.036,
                     32.039
328-96   - -         35.19
12       11-15-1975  32.038,
                     32.040
14       5-16-1977   71.13
20-79    11-15-1979  33.20
47       1-27-1981   72.08
66-82    1-12-1982   32.055,
                     32.056
77       11-23-1982  30.054,
                     30.055
81       2-22-1983   130.21
                     32.070 -
89       7-26-1983   32.073,
                     32.999
110      5-22-1984   30.054
113      6-26-1984   30.055
114      7-24-1984   71.13
142      7-9-1985    33.01,
                     33.25
147-85   9-12-1985   93.05
151      12-12-1985  33.21,
                     150.12
                     93.01 -
171      11-13-1986  93.04,
                     93.99
172      12-11-1986  94.02
190-87   11-24-1987  30.020
217-88   11-9-1988   32.016
239-89   8-10-1989   32.037
262-91   10-10-1991  130.11
266-91   11-14-1991  71.14
298-94   4-28-1994   32.071,
                     32.073
299-94   6-23-1994   94.01 -
                     94.15
352-96   12-19-1996  32.036
382-98   10-1-1998   94.02,
                     94.05
389-99   4-29-1999   32.024
392-99   9-16-1999   32.037
384-00   2-10-2000   32.015,
                     32.016
412-00   10-26-2000  73.01,
                     73.02
432-01   12-13-2001  30.052
456-03   5-8-2003    32.035,
                     32.036
532-08   4-10-2008   30.007
533-08   4-10-2008   33.04
                     111.01 -
531-08   4-22-2008   111.06,
                     111.99
536-08   4-22-2008   112.01 -
                     112.07
534-08   5-8-2008    32.002
                     30.020,
541-08   5-22-2008   30.021,
                     30.024
                     150.02 -
543-09   1-22-2009   150.05,
                     150.06
548-09   6-11-2009   92.01 -
                     92.05
552-09   10-22-2009  151.01 -
                     151.10
554-09   11-4-2009   33.20
555-10   1-28-2010   32.072,
                     32.073
559-10   5-27-2010   151.07
560-10   6-10-2010   130.13
561-10   7-26-2010   72.07
565-10   12-20-2010  92.20 -
                     92.26
567-11   2-10-2011   130.24
575-11   9-8-2011    150.07
580-12   1-26-2012   32.015
582-12   3-22-2012   30.050
588-12   5-9-2012    31.56 -
                     31.61
592-12   7-25-2012   71.02,
                     71.99
                     50.02,
593-12   8-8-2012    50.03,
                     91.01 -
                     91.12
598-12   12-19-2012  72.06
601-13   4-24-2013   32.015
603-13   8-21-2013   72.09
604-13   8-21-2013   30.035
610-14   7-9-2014    31.59
614-14   7-9-2014    130.12
615-14   7-9-2014    50.01
619-14   9-24-2014   34.01 -
                     34.04
620-14   11-19-2014  71.13
623-15   2-25-2015   130.24
626-15   10-28-2015  32.039
627-15   1-13-2016   TSO Table I
                     50.02,
                     50.04 -
                     50.06,
628-16   6-22-2016   91.02 -
                     91.05,
                     91.08 -
                     91.12
630-16   1-11-2017   Adopting Ordinance
631-17   2-8-2017    34.04
633-17   3-22-2017   130.20
634-17   6-14-2017   30.075
638-17   9-27-2017   152.124
640-17   11-8-2017   31.58
641-17   12-13-2017  TSO Table I
647-18   - -2018     30.035
                     152.001 -
                     152.009,
                     152.025 -
                     152.033,
                     152.045 -
                     152.047,
                     152.055 -
                     152.059,
                     152.070 -
                     152.074,
                     152.085,
                     152.086,
648-18   11-28-2018  152.088 -
                     152.093,
                     152.095, 
                     152.096,
                     152.105 -
                     152.112,
                     152.120 -
                     152.124,
                     152.135 -
                     152.137, Ch. 152 App.
                     A,
                     B,
                     C
649-18   11-28-2018  30.073
650-18   11-28-2018  31.20
651-18   11-28-2018  TSO Table I
652-18   11-28-2018  TSO Table I
                     30.050,
654-19   1-23-2019   30.054,
                     30.055
                     32.015 -
653-19   2-13-2019   32.018,
                     32.020,
                     32.023
                     32.035 -
655-19   2-13-2019   32.039,
                     32.041
656-19   5-8-2019    71.15
657-19   5-8-2019    TSO Table I
661-19   10-9-2019   152.057
663-19   12-11-2019  TSO Table I
                     150.01,
665-19   12-11-2019  150.02,
                     150.05 -
                     150.12
666-19   12-11-2019  92.02 -
                     92.04
669-20   2-26-2020   TSO Table I
671-20   5-27-2020   152.026
672-20   5-27-2020   TSO Table I
675-20   8-12-2020   TSO Table I
676-20   9-9-2020    31.40
678-21   1-13-2021   95.01 -
                     95.10
679-21   3-24-2021   32.041
680-21   3-24-2021   130.25
685-21   10-13-2021  30.050
686-21   10-13-2021  111.03,
                     111.04
687-22   2-9-2022    TSO Table I
688-22   2-9-2022    TSO Table I
                     154.001 -
                     154.004,
                     154.015,
                     154.025 -
                     154.029,
                     154.040,
                     154.041,
                     154.055,
                     154.060 -
                     154.062,
692-22   692-22      154.075 -
                     154.078,
                     154.090 -
                     154.094,
                     154.105 -
                     154.108,
                     154.120,
                     154.130,
                     154.140,
                     154.141,
                     154.155
693-22   4-27-2022   TSO Table I
694-22   6-22-2022   TSO Table I
695-22   6-22-2022   TSO Table I
696-22   8-24-2022   TSO Table I
697-22   9-14-2022   34.04
698-22   9-28-2022   32.015
700-22   11-16-2022  96.01 -
                     96.06
699-22   12-14-2022  34.04,
                     34.05
702-23   2-22-2023   TSO Table I
                     152.001 -
                     152.009,
                     152.025 -
                     152.033,
                     152.045 -
                     152.047,
                     152.055 -
                     152.059,
                     152.070 -
                     152.074,
703-23   3-22-2023   152.085,
                     152.086,
                     152.088 -
                     152.093,
                     152.095,
                     152.096,
                     152.105 -
                     152.112,
                     152.120 -
                     152.124,
                     152.135 -
                     152.137
704-23   4-12-2023   32.088
710-23   6-28-2023   31.05
712-23   9-27-2023   TSO Table I
713-23   9-27-2023   152.028
714-23   10-25-2023  TSO Table I
719-23   11-15-2023  153.01 -
                     153.04
720-23   11-15-2023  31.61
                     93.01,
723-24   2-14-2024   93.06,
                     93.07,
                     93.99
724-24   2-14-2024   31.59
725-24   3-13-2024   32.015
727-24   4-10-2024   32.015
728-24   4-10-2024   154.041
730-24   8-21-2024   TSO Table I
734-24   10-23-2024  TSO Table I
737-25   2-26-2025   30.054
738-25   3-26-2025   33.21
739-25   5-28-2025   152.087
742-25   6-11-2025   30.054
                    
 
