TOWN CODE
of
PARKER, ARIZONA
2004
Code current through:
Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-5-2021
Published by:
STERLING CODIFIERS
an
American Legal Publishing Company
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the Town of Parker, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance 01-2021, passed 1-5-2021.  Ordinances of the Town
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the Town
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
Sterling Codifiers
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL TOWN CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the council, this town code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official town code of Parker. This town code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the PARKER TOWN CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the council and shall be supplemented to incorporate
the most recent legislation of the town as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this town code by title in any legal documents. (2004 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The town code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of the
state as the ordinances of the town of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2004 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS 1 :
Any ordinance amending the town code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this town code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this town code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the town code. (2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 1-10-5C of this title.
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this town code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code, while in
actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the town and shall be returned to the office of the town
clerk when directed so to do by order of the council. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Effect Of Repeal; Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   All general ordinances of the town passed prior to the adoption of this
town code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this town code or
are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries, annexations and dedications;
franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; any ordinances authorizing, ratifying, confirming, approving or
accepting any compact or contract with any other municipality, the state of
Arizona or any county or subdivision thereof, or with the United States or any
agency or instrumentality thereof; ordinances authorizing the issuance of
warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating
streets, alleys or other public places; improvement ordinances; bond issue
ordinances; ordinances relating to elections; ordinances relating to the
transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the town; all special
ordinances regarding floodplain management, zoning or garbage collection; and
all other special ordinances.
   B.   The adoption and enactment of this code shall not be construed to
repeal or in any way to modify or affect:
      1.   The running of the statute of limitations in force at the effective
date hereof.
      2.   The continued existence and operation of any department, agency,
commission or office heretofore legally established or held.
      3.   Any bond of any public officer.
      4.   Any taxes, fees, assessments or other charges incurred or imposed.
(1988 Code §
1-9-2; amd. 2004 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this town code or by virtue of section
1-2-1 of this chapter, except as this town code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this town code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2004 Code)
1-2-3: EFFECT OF REPEAL; COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Reviving Prior Ordinances: When any ordinance repealing a former
ordinance, clause or provision shall be itself repealed, such repeal shall not
be construed to revive such former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it
shall be expressly so provided.
   B.   Offenses: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect. (1988 Code art. 1-6; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   D.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the town herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the town under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this town code. (2004 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this town code, or any part hereof or any portion adopted by reference or
any codes or portions of codes adopted herein, is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part hereof or any portion adopted
by reference or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein. The council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION 1
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-4: Conflicting Provisions
 
Notes
1 1. ARS §§ 1-211 – 1-215 for definitions and construction of statutes
  generally.
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   The rules and the definitions set forth in this chapter shall be
observed in the construction of this code and the ordinances of the town unless
such construction would be inconsistent with either the manifest intent of the
common council or the context of this code or the ordinances of the town. (1988
Code art. 1-2)
   B.   Whenever any word in any section of this town code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this town code by words importing the singular number
only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons, the opposite
gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided, that
these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this town
code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or where
the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   C.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the town has been
changed in the content of this town code to "title", "chapter", "article",
"section" and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the town's ordinances is not meant
to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2004 Code)
   D.   All words and phrases shall be construed and understood according to
the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases
and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the
law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar and
appropriate meaning. (1988 Code §
1-3-1)
   E.   The present tense includes the past and future tenses, and the future
includes the present. (1988 Code § 1-3-24)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
ARS: Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended.
ACTS BY AGENTS: When this code or an ordinance requires an act to be done which
may by law as well be done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement
shall be construed to include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
CODE: The code of the town of Parker, Arizona, unless the context indicates
otherwise.
COUNCIL: The common council of the town.
COUNTY: The county of La Paz, Arizona.
DAY: The period of time between any midnight and the midnight following.
DAYTIME, NIGHTTIME: "Daytime" is the period of time between sunrise and sunset;
"nighttime" is the period of time between sunset and sunrise.
DEPARTMENT, BOARD, COMMISSION, OFFICE, OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE: A department,
board, commission, office, officer or employee of the town unless the context
clearly indicates otherwise. Whenever reference is made in this code to a town
department, board, commission, office, officer or employee by title only, this
shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the town of Parker".
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to firms, partnerships and
corporations as well.
IN THE TOWN OR WITHIN THE TOWN: Shall mean and include all territory over which
the town now has, or shall hereafter acquire, jurisdiction for the exercise of
its police powers or other regulatory powers.
JOINT AUTHORITY: All words purporting to give a joint authority to three (3) or
more town officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority
to a majority of such officers or other persons unless it shall be otherwise
expressly declared in the law giving the authority.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MAYOR: The mayor of the town.
MONTH: A calendar month.
OATH: Includes affirmation or declaration.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OR, AND: "Or" may be read "and", or "and" may be read "or", if the sense
requires it.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Shall extend and be applied to firms, corporations or voluntary
associations, as well as to individuals, unless plainly inapplicable.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
PRECEDING, FOLLOWING: Next before and next after, respectively.
PROPERTY: Shall include real and personal property.
REAL PROPERTY: Shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
SHALL HAVE BEEN: Includes past and future cases.
SHALL, MAY: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
SIGNATURE OR SUBSCRIPTION BY MARK: Includes a mark when the signer cannot
write, such signer's or subscriber's name being written near the mark by a
witness who writes his own name near the signer's or subscriber's name; but a
signature or subscription by mark can be acknowledged or can serve as a
signature or subscription to a sworn statement only when two (2) witnesses so
sign their own names thereto.
STATE: The state of Arizona.
STATUTORY REFERENCES: References to statutes of the state of Arizona as they
now are or as they may be amended.
STREET: Streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts, highways,
courts, places, squares, curbs and all other public ways in the town which are
dedicated and open to public use.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
TIME, COMPUTATION: The time within which an act is to be done as provided in
this code or in any order issued pursuant to any ordinance, when expressed in
days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last;
except, that if the last day is a Saturday, Sunday or holiday, it shall be
excluded; and when such time is expressed in hours, the whole of Saturday,
Sunday or a holiday, from midnight to midnight, shall be excluded.
TIME, REASONABLE: In all cases where any section of this code shall require any
act to be done in a reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, such
reasonable time or notice shall be deemed to mean such time only as may be
necessary for the prompt performance of such duty or compliance with such
notice.
TOWN: The town of Parker, county of La Paz, state of Arizona.
WEEK: Seven (7) consecutive days.
WHOLESALER, WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be
understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to
persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITING: Includes any form of recorded message capable of comprehension by
ordinary visual means. Whenever any notice, report, statement or record is
required or authorized by this code, it shall be made in writing in the English
language unless it is expressly provided otherwise.
YEAR: A calendar year, except where otherwise provided. (1988 Code §§
1-3-2 – 1-3-23, 1-3-25 – 1-3-30; amd. 2004 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the town code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2004 Code)
1-3-4: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
   A.   Different Chapters Or Articles: If the provisions of different chapters
or articles of this code conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions
of each chapter or article shall prevail as to all matters and questions
growing out of the subject matter of such chapter or article. (1988 Code §
1-4-3)
   B.   Same Chapter Or Article: If conflicting provisions are found in
different sections of the same chapter or article, the most current provisions
shall prevail unless such construction is inconsistent with the meaning of such
chapter or article. (1988 Code § 1-4-4; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Notice Of Violations, Civil Citations, And Penalty
1-4-3: Jurisdiction And Proceedings
1-4-4: Application Of Provisions:
1-4-5: Liability Of Officers:
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   Any person found guilty of violating any provisions of this code,
except as otherwise provided in this code, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not to exceed one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by imprisonment for a period not to exceed six
(6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   B.   Any violation of or failure or refusal to do or perform any act
required by title 7 of this code constitutes a civil traffic violation. Civil
traffic violations are subject to the provisions of title 28, chapter 5,
articles 2 and 4, Arizona Revised Statutes, and amendments thereto.
   C.   Any person violating any provisions of this Code that are designated as
subject to civil penalty shall be punished by imposition of a fine not to
exceed $500.00, unless another penalty is specified.
   D.   In addition to the penalties herein provided, any condition caused or
permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Code or any
Town ordinance will be deemed a public nuisance and may be abated by the Town
as provided by law. Imposition of the penalties in this Chapter will not
prevent the revocation of a license, permit, or franchise.
   E.   Each day that any violation of any provision of this Code or Town
ordinance continues constitutes a separate offense.
   F.   Recidivism.
      1.   The recidivist process is designed to provide relief via an
expedited enforcement process for problems with persons or entities who
repeatedly violate any provision of this Code or Town ordinance and who have
demonstrated an unwillingness to comply with this Code.
      2.   Any civil citations issued after the responsible party has been
found responsible for two or more violations of this Code or Town ordinance
within the previous eighteen months, whether by admission, payment of a fine,
or by default judgement, are punishable by a class 1 misdemeanor.  (Ord. 03-
2020, 12-1-2020)
1-4-2: NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS, CIVIL CITATIONS, AND PENALTY:
   A.   This Section applies to any violation of this Code or any Town
ordinance where a civil penalty is declared to be applicable.
   B.   Unless otherwise specified, a notice of violation or civil citation may
be issued by the Town Manager, or by any person to whom the Town Manager
designates authority to enforce this Code. The Town Manager must designate
those Town employees who may issue civil citations under this Chapter.
   C.   Notice Of Violation:
      1.   The Town may seek voluntary compliance with the provisions of this
Code prior to issuing a notice of violation, a civil citation, or a criminal
complaint, as applicable. Notices of violation are not required prior to the
issuance of a civil citation or criminal complaint.
      2.   Notices of violation must be issued in writing. The Town must use
reasonable efforts to ensure notices of violation are received by the
responsible party pursuant to subsection (E) of this Section. However, failure
of the responsible party to receive an issued notice of violation does not
preclude the subsequent issuance of a civil citation or criminal complaint, as
applicable.
      3.   Notices of violation must identify the responsible party and date of
violation, if known, and reference the relevant section of this Code or
ordinance applicable to the violation.
      4.   If a violation of this Code or ordinance is continuing, the notice
of violation must also identify possible action to remediate the violation, set
a reasonable time period to bring the violation into compliance, and specify an
employee of the Town to contact for further information.
      5.   Nothing in this Section prevents the Town from taking immediate
action to protect the public from imminent hazard to public health or safety,
or as otherwise provided by law.
   D.   Civil Citations:
      1.   Unless otherwise designated as a criminal offense, a civil citation
may be issued to the person or entity responsible for the violation.
      2.   The Town must use reasonable efforts to ensure civil citations are
received by the responsible party pursuant to subsection (E) of this Section.
      3.   A Civil Citation must:
         a.   Identify the responsible party and date of violation, if known,
and reference the relevant section of this Code or ordinance applicable to the
violation.
         b.   Show the name and signature of the enforcement officer.
         c.   List a date of appearance for the responsible party to appeal the
civil citation in Magistrate Court and provide the phone number of the
Magistrate Court to contact for questions regarding the hearing process.
         d.   Direct the responsible party to correct the violation (if
applicable) and to pay the amount prescribed by the Magistrate Court prior to
the date of appearance, or direct the responsible party to appear in Magistrate
Court on the date of appearance.
         e.   Notify the responsible party that failure to remedy the violation
and pay the applicable fines, and failure to appear in Magistrate Court when
directed, will result in a default judgment being entered against the
responsible party.
   E.   Reasonable efforts to ensure notices of violation or civil citations
are received by a responsible party include:
      1.   Hand delivery to the responsible party. If the responsible party is
a business or other non-individual, reasonable efforts include leaving the
notice of violation or civil citation with any employee or representative of
the entity.
      2.   Sending a copy of the notice of violation or civil citation by
certified or registered mail to the last address known for the responsible
party or the last known owner of the property causing the violation.
      3.   For notices of violation only, affixing the notice of violation to
any vehicle or structure if the placement, operation, or condition of the
vehicle or structure is the cause of the violation.
      4.   By any other manner allowed by the Arizona Rules of Civil
Procedure.  (Ord. 03-2020, 12-1-2020)
1-4-3: JURISDICTION AND PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Jurisdiction: Jurisdiction of all proceedings to enforce the provisions
of this Code will be in the Town of Parker Magistrate court.
   B.   Failure To Appear: If a person served with a civil citation or criminal
complaint fails to appear on or before the time set for hearing by the court,
the allegations in the complaint will be admitted, and the court must enter
judgment for the town and impose a penalty, as applicable.
   C.   The Magistrate Court shall find the responsible party guilty, not
guilty or may dismiss the civil citation. If the responsible party is found
guilty, the order shall include:
      1.   The amount of any civil penalty imposed.
      2.   The date by when the responsible party shall correct the violation
(if applicable), which date shall not be less than thirty (30) days after the
decision and pay the civil penalty.
      3.   Notice that if the responsible party does not pay the civil penalty
or correct the violation within the time ordered, the Town may take any lawful
action to collect the civil penalty including imposition of a lien on the
responsible party's land.
   D.   Collection of Fines: Any judgment for civil or criminal penalties taken
pursuant to this chapter may be collected as any other judgment.  (Ord. 03-
2020, 12-1-2020)
1-4-4: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalties provided in this Chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this town code the same as though it were a part
of each and every separate section.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this town code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but
not more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this town code
and there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach,
the provisions of this chapter shall apply.  (Ord. 03-2020, 12-1-2020)
1-4-5: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
The town shall indemnify its officials, officers and employees, whether elected
or appointed, and hold them harmless from any and all loss, liability or
damages incurred when such loss, liability or damage arises directly out of the
public responsibilities and/or duties of such official, officer or employee.
The indemnification provided for in this section shall not be available in
those instances when the loss, liability or damage arises out of the commission
of a criminal offense by the subject official, officer or employee.  (Ord. 03-
2020, 12-1-2020)
CHAPTER 5
COMMON COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Elected Officers; Term
1-5-2: Vacancies In Office
1-5-3: Oath And Bond
1-5-4: Corporate Powers
1-5-5: Compensation
1-5-6: Financial Disclosure Statement
1-5-7: Council Procedure
1-5-1: ELECTED OFFICERS; TERM 1 :
   A.   The elected officers of the Town shall be seven (7) Council members,
one of whom shall be designated as Mayor in accordance with section
1-6-1 of this title. The Mayor and Council members shall constitute the Council
and shall continue in office until assumption of duties of office by their duly
elected successors. Council members shall serve four (4) year overlapping terms
in the manner provided by State Statute. For the purpose of facilitating the
change in election dates pursuant to sections
1-9-1 and
1-9-2 of this title, the term of office for Council members holding office on
the tenth Tuesday before the first Monday in November of 2014, whose term would
have expired in June of 2015, shall be extended until their successors are
elected and qualified in December of 2016, and the term of office for Council
members holding office on the tenth Tuesday before the first Monday in November
of 2016, whose term would have expired in June of 2017, shall be extended until
their successors are elected and qualified in December of 2018. (Ord. 02-2013,
11-19-2013)
   B.   Council members shall assume the duties of office at the first
regularly-scheduled Council meeting in January following the election. (Ord.
07-2018, 10-16-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. ARS §§ 9-231, 9-232.02, 16-204.
1-5-2: VACANCIES IN OFFICE:
The Council shall fill, by appointment for the unexpired term, any vacancy that
may occur for whatever reason. (1988 Code § 2-1-4)
1-5-3: OATH AND BOND:
   A.   Oath Of Office 1 : Immediately prior to assumption of the duties of
office, each Council member shall, in public, take and subscribe to the oath of
office. (1988 Code § 2-1-6)
   B.   Bond 2 : Prior to taking office, every Council member shall execute and
file an official bond, enforceable against the principal and his sureties,
conditioned on the due and faithful performance of his official duties, payable
to the State and to and for the use and benefit of the Town or any person who
may be injured or aggrieved by the wrongful act or default of such officer in
his official capacity. A person so injured or aggrieved may bring suit on such
bond under provisions identical to those contained in Arizona Revised Statutes
section 38-260. Bonds shall be in such sum as shall be provided by resolution,
and the premium for such bonds shall be paid by the Town. (1988 Code § 2-1-7)
 
Notes
1 2. ARS § 38-231.
2 1. ARS § 9-302.
1-5-4: CORPORATE POWERS 1 :
The corporate powers of the Town shall be vested in the Council and shall be
exercised only as directed or authorized by law. All powers of the Council
shall be exercised by ordinance, resolution, order or motion. (1988 Code § 2-1-
2)
 
Notes
1 2. ARS § 9-231.
1-5-5: COMPENSATION 1 :
The compensation of elective officers of the Town shall be fixed from time to
time by resolution of the Council. (1988 Code § 2-1-5)
 
Notes
1 3. ARS § 9-232.01.
1-5-6: FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE STATEMENT 1 :
The Mayor and each member of the Council shall file by January 31 of each year,
on a form prescribed by the Clerk, a financial disclosure statement setting
forth such information as determined by resolution of the council. (1988 Code §
2-1-8)
 
Notes
1 4. ARS § 38-545. See also section 1-9-5 of this title.
1-5-7: COUNCIL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Meetings:
      1.   Regular Meetings 1 : The council shall hold regular meetings on the
first and third Tuesdays of each month at six o'clock (6:00) P.M.; provided,
that when the day fixed for any regular meeting of the council falls upon a day
designated by law as a legal holiday, such meeting shall be held at the same
hour on the next succeeding day not a holiday. All regular meetings of the
council shall be held in the town hall or other designated meeting place. The
council may, by motion, cancel or reschedule any meeting. Notice of a change of
any meeting place, date or time shall be given as required by law. (Ord. 01-
2007, 2-6-2007; amd. Ord. 10-2009, 8-26-2009)
      2.   Special Meetings: The mayor, vice mayor, or any three (3) council
members may convene the council at any time after giving at least twenty four
(24) hours' written notice of such meeting to members of the council and the
general public. The notice shall include the date, hour and purpose of such
special meeting. In the case of an actual emergency, a meeting may be held upon
such notice as is appropriate to the circumstances. (1988 Code § 2-4-2; amd.
2004 Code)
      3.   Open To Public 2 : All proceedings of the council shall be open to
the public; except, that upon approval by a majority vote of the council, the
council may meet in a closed executive session pursuant to the provisions of
state law. (1988 Code § 2-4-3)
   B.   Quorum 3 : A majority of the council members shall constitute a quorum
for transacting business, but a lesser number may adjourn from time to time and
compel the attendance of absent members. No such adjournment shall be to a day
beyond the next stated meeting of the council. (1988 Code § 2-4-4; amd. 2004
Code)
   C.   Agenda: Prior to each council meeting, or on or before a time fixed by
the council for preparation and distribution of an agenda, whichever is
earlier, the manager shall collect all written reports, communications,
ordinances, resolutions, contracts and other documents to be submitted to the
council, prepare an agenda according to the order of business and furnish each
council member, the mayor and the attorney with a copy. (1988 Code § 2-4-5)
   D.   Order Of Business; Procedures For Meetings 4 :
      1.   The mayor or the vice mayor or acting mayor, in consultation with
the town manager, shall set the agenda and order of the meeting pursuant to
state law. Council members may submit agenda items to the manager for
consideration by the council. Such items shall be submitted in time for
preparation of the agenda.
      2.   The mayor shall take the chair precisely at the hour appointed for
the meeting and shall immediately call the council to order. In the absence of
the mayor, the vice mayor shall call the council to order. In the absence of
both the mayor and vice mayor, the clerk shall call the council to order and an
acting mayor shall be selected to chair the meeting. Upon the arrival of the
mayor or the vice mayor, the vice mayor or the acting mayor shall immediately
relinquish the chair upon the conclusion of the business immediately before the
council. The mayor shall preserve order and decorum, decide all questions of
order and conduct the proceedings of the meetings in accordance with the
parliamentary rules contained in "Robert's Rules Of Order". (1988 Code § 2-4-6)
      3.   Petitions, remonstrances, communications and comments or suggestions
from citizens present may be heard by the council during "call to the public".
All such remarks shall be addressed to the council as a whole, and not to any
member thereof. Such remarks shall be limited to three (3) minutes, unless
additional time is granted by the council. No person other than the individual
speaking shall enter into the discussion without the permission of the
presiding officer. No question shall be asked a council member during "call to
the public". (1988 Code § 2-4-6; amd. 2004 Code)
   E.   Committees And Commissions: The council may create such boards,
committees and commissions, standing or special, as it deems necessary. They
shall consist of as many members and shall perform such duties as the council
may require and shall exist at the pleasure of the council. (1988 Code § 2-4-7)
   F.   Voting:
      1.   The mayor shall vote as a member of the council.
      2.   Upon the request of any member, the ayes and nays upon any question
shall be taken and entered in the minutes. (1988 Code § 2-4-8)
   G.   Suspension Of Rules: Any of the provisions of this section may be
temporarily suspended in connection with any matter under consideration by a
recorded vote of not less than three-fourths (3/4) of the members present;
except, that this subsection shall not be construed to permit any action that
is contrary to state statutes. (1988 Code § 2-4-9)
   H.   Consent Agenda: Whereas many items of business require action by the
town council, but are themselves of a routine and noncontroversial nature, and
it is desirable to expedite the transaction of public business and provide
additional time for the deliberation of nonroutine matters, a consent agenda
may be utilized as follows:
      1.   When any item of business requires action by the council, but is of
a routine and noncontroversial nature, such item may be presented at a regular
meeting of the council as a part of the consent agenda.
      2.   The consent agenda shall be introduced by a "motion to approve the
consent agenda", and such agenda and each item thereon shall be considered by
the council as a single item.
      3.   There shall be no debate or discussion by any member of the council
regarding any item on the consent agenda, beyond the asking of questions for
purposes of clarification.
      4.   All items on the consent agenda which require public hearings shall
be open for hearing simultaneously, and prior to the vote upon the motion to
approve the consent agenda, and the mayor shall announce the titles of all such
hearing items.
      5.   Upon objection by any member of the council to the inclusion of any
item on the consent agenda, that item shall be removed from the consent agenda
forthwith. Such objections may be made and recorded at any time prior to the
taking of a vote upon the consent agenda. All such items shall be considered
individually, in the order to which they were objected, immediately following
the council's consideration of the consent agenda.
      6.   Approval of the motion to approve the consent agenda shall be the
full equivalent to the approval, adoption or enactment of each motion,
resolution, ordinance or any other item of business thereon, exactly as if each
such item had been acted upon individually. (1988 Code § 2-4-10)
 
Notes
1 5. ARS § 9-233.
2 1. ARS § 38-431 et seq.
3 2. ARS § 9-233.
4 3. ARS § 9-234.
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR
SECTION:
1-6-1: Selection Of Mayor
1-6-2: Powers And Duties
1-6-3: Absence Restricted
1-6-4: Failure To Sign Documents
1-6-5: Vice Mayor; Acting Mayor
1-6-1: SELECTION OF MAYOR 1 :
The members of the council shall, at the first regular meeting after their
election, choose a mayor from among their number, who shall serve at the
pleasure of the council. (1988 Code §
2-2-1)
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 9-232.
1-6-2: POWERS AND DUTIES 1 :
The powers and duties of the mayor shall include the following:
   A.   He shall be the chief executive officer of the town.
   B.   He shall be the chairman of the council and preside over its meetings.
He may make and second motions and shall have a voice and vote in all its
proceedings. (1988 Code §
2-2-4)
   C.   He shall provide for the enforcement of the provisions of this code.
(1988 Code §
2-2-4; amd. 2004 Code)
   D.   He shall execute and authenticate by his signature such instruments as
the council or any statutes, ordinances or this code shall require.
   E.   He shall make such recommendations and suggestions to the council as he
may consider proper.
   F.   He may, by proclamation, declare a local emergency to exist due to
fire, conflagration, flood, earthquake, explosion, war, bombing or any other
natural or manmade calamity or disaster or in the event of the threat or
occurrence of riot, rout or affray or other acts of civil disobedience which
endanger life or property within the town. After declaration of such emergency,
the mayor shall govern by proclamation and impose all necessary regulations to
preserve the peace and order of the town, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Imposition of a curfew in all or any portion of the town.
      2.   Ordering the closing of any business.
      3.   Closing to public access any public building, street or other public
place. (1988 Code §
2-2-4)
      4.   Calling upon regular or auxiliary law enforcement agencies and
organizations within or without the town for assistance.
   G.   He shall perform such other duties required by state statute and this
code as well as those duties required as chief executive officer of the town.
(1988 Code §
2-2-4; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. ARS § 9-236.
1-6-3: ABSENCE RESTRICTED:
The mayor shall not absent himself from the town for a greater period than
fifteen (15) days without the notification of the council. (1988 Code §
2-2-5; amd. 2004 Code)
1-6-4: FAILURE TO SIGN DOCUMENTS:
If the mayor refuses or fails to sign any ordinance, resolution, contract,
warrant, demand or other document or instrument requiring his signature for
five (5) consecutive days, then a majority of the members of the council may,
at any regular or special meeting, authorize the vice mayor or, in his absence,
an acting mayor to sign such ordinance, resolution, contract, warrant, demand
or other document or instrument which, when so signed, shall have the same
force and effect as if signed by the mayor. (1988 Code § 2-2-6)
1-6-5: VICE MAYOR; ACTING MAYOR:
   A.   Vice Mayor 1 : At the same meeting at which the mayor is selected, the
council shall designate one of its members as vice mayor who shall serve at the
pleasure of the council. The vice mayor shall perform the duties of the mayor
during his absence or disability. (1988 Code §
2-2-2)
   B.   Acting Mayor: In the absence or disability of both the mayor and vice
mayor, the council may designate another of its members to serve as acting
mayor who shall have all the powers, duties and responsibilities of the mayor
during such absence or disability. (1988 Code §
2-2-3)
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 9-236.
CHAPTER 7
TOWN OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
SECTION:
1-7-1: Officers Of The Town
1-7-2: Bond
1-7-3: Vacancies; Holding More Than One Office
1-7-4: Powers And Duties
1-7-5: Personnel System
1-7-1: OFFICERS OF THE TOWN:
   A.   Specific Officers Enumerated 1 ; Term: There are hereby created the
offices of town manager, town clerk, town police chief, town engineer, town
attorney and town magistrate who shall be appointed by the council 2  and who
shall serve at the pleasure of the council, with the exception of the town
magistrate who shall serve a term of two (2) years 3 . (1988 Code §
3-1-1; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Additional Officers 4 : The council may appoint and remove from time to
time such other officers as it may deem necessary and that are not provided for
in this code or state statute. (1988 Code §
3-1-2)
 
Notes
1 1. ARS §§ 9-237, 9-303, 22-403.
2 2. See also subsection 1-7A-3A3 of this title.
3 3. See also subsection 1-8-2A of this title.
4 4. ARS § 9-239.
1-7-2: BOND 1 :
The council may require each officer of the town to give bond for the due
discharge of his duties in such sums and with such security as it may direct
and approve as determined by resolution. The town shall pay the costs of such
bond. (1988 Code § 3-1-3)
 
Notes
1 5. ARS § 9-239.
1-7-3: VACANCIES 1 ; HOLDING MORE THAN ONE OFFICE:
Any vacancy that shall occur in any town office shall be filled by appointment
by the council; provided, that one person may hold more than one office, and
that at the discretion of the council, the functions of a town official may be
validly performed and discharged by a deputy or another town official, or an
otherwise qualified individual not holding office but employed at the pleasure
of the council. (1988 Code § 3-1-4)
 
Notes
1 6. ARS § 9-239.
1-7-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
In addition to any powers and duties prescribed in this code, each officer
shall have such further powers, perform such further duties and hold such other
office as may be provided by the council through ordinance, resolution or
order. (1988 Code § 3-1-5)
1-7-5: PERSONNEL SYSTEM:
   A.   System Created; Scope: There is hereby adopted a merit system for the
employees of the town, the provisions of which shall apply to all employees of
the town except elected officials, officers of the town appointed by the
council, persons engaged under contract to supply expert, professional or
technical services, temporary employees and volunteer personnel who receive no
regular compensation from the town. (1988 Code § 3-3-1)
   B.   Conditions Of Employment; Discrimination Prohibited: The appointment,
promotion and tenure of every employee shall be conditioned solely on merit and
fitness and the satisfactory performance of the duties and responsibilities
assigned. No employee or applicant for employment shall be discriminated
against on the basis of race, color, religion, gender, political affiliation,
age, disability or national origin. (1988 Code § 3-3-2; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Political Contributions: No officer, official or employee of the town
shall use any influence or pressure upon any employee to obtain any assessment
or contribution of money or time, either direct or indirect, for any political
campaign or personal gain. (1988 Code § 3-3-4)
   D.   Background Review:
      1.   The Council authorizes the Town Manager, or his/her designee, to (i)
examine the criminal history information, including non-conviction information,
concerning any current or prospective employee or volunteers and (ii) to
require such current or prospective employee to submit a full set of
fingerprints to the town police department for the purpose of obtaining a state
and federal criminal records check.  The town police department shall submit
the fingerprints to the Arizona Department of Public Safety pursuant to ARS 41-
1750. DPS is authorized to exchange this fingerprint data with the Federal
Bureau of Investigation, pursuant to Public Law (PL 92-544).
      2.   The Council authorizes the Town Manager, or his/her designee, to
examine the criminal history information, including non-conviction information,
concerning any incident which will involve any potential or actual liability,
civil or criminal, on the part of the town or any incident which may give rise
to a claim on behalf of the town, and may furnish said information to the
appropriate insurance or legal personnel charged with the responsibility of
processing of claims involving the town.
   E.   Transfer Of Benefits:
      1.   The town manager may, under the following circumstances, approve the
transfer of vacation and/or sick leave benefits from one employee of the town
to another employee of the town:
         a.   The donating employee has, in writing, requested and/or approved
of the transfer.
         b.   Based upon the information made known to the town manager at the
time said application is received, the town manager concludes that such a
transfer is reasonable in the premise and will not impair the effective
delivery of municipal services by the town.
      2.   Upon approval of the transfer of vacation and/or sick leave benefits
by the town manager, the hours donated by the transferring employee shall be
credited to the transferee, who may use such hours for the purpose of receiving
vacation and/or sick leave pay. Upon the effective date of such transfer, the
transferred vacation and/or sick leave shall be the property of the transferee.
(1988 Code § 3-2-1)
   F.   Rules And Regulations: The council may adopt by resolution rules and
regulations to give effect to this section, which may be modified or changed
from time to time, but such rules and regulations shall follow the generally
accepted principles of good personnel administration. (1988 Code § 3-3-3; amd.
Ord. 01-2021, 1-5-2021)
ARTICLE A.  TOWN MANAGER 1
SECTION:
1-7A-1: Office Created; Appointment; Qualifications
1-7A-2: Bond
1-7A-3: Powers And Duties
1-7A-4: Absence Restricted
1-7A-5: Removal From Office
1-7A-6: Compensation
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 9-303.
1-7A-1: OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS:
The office of town manager is created. The town manager shall be appointed by
majority vote of the council for a definite or an indefinite term. The manager
shall be chosen by the council on the basis of executive and administrative
qualifications with special reference to actual experience in, or knowledge of
accepted practice in respect to the duties of office set forth in this article.
No council member shall receive such appointment during the term for which such
council member shall have been elected, nor within one year after the
expiration of such council member's term. (1988 Code § 3-2-1)
1-7A-2: BOND:
The town manager shall furnish a surety bond to be approved by the council;
said bond to be conditioned on the faithful performance of his duties. The
premium of the bond shall be paid by the town. (1988 Code § 3-2-1)
1-7A-3: POWERS AND DUTIES 1 :
   A.   Generally: The town manager shall be the executive officer and head of
the administrative branch of the town. The manager shall be responsible to the
town council for proper administration of all affairs of the town and shall
have the power and shall be required to:
      1.   Execute on behalf of the council general administrative supervision
and control of the affairs of the town.
      2.   Attend meetings of the council with the duty of reporting on or
discussing any matter concerning the affairs of the departments, boards,
services or activities under his supervision, upon which, in his judgment, the
town council should be informed. (1988 Code § 3-2-1)
      3.   Appoint and, when necessary, suspend or remove all employees of the
town except department heads and those officers required by law to be appointed
by the council. All appointments and removals shall be based upon merit and
upon the qualifications and disqualifications of such employee without regard
to any political belief or affiliation. All department heads and officers
required by law to be appointed by the council, such as the police chief, town
clerk, attorney and town engineer, shall be appointed and terminated by the
council with the advice of the manager 2 . (1988 Code § 3-2-1; amd. 2004 Code)
      4.   Directly supervise all town employees, including those appointed by
council.
      5.   Develop and administer an evaluation program for town employees that
is consistent with principles of good management.
      6.   Prepare or cause to be prepared and submitted to him by each
department, board, division or service of the town government, itemized annual
estimates of expenditures required by them for capital outlay, salaries, wages
and miscellaneous operating costs; to tabulate the same into a preliminary
consolidated municipal budget and submit the same to the town council annually
on the date specified by the council, with his recommendations as to any
increases, decreases, cancellations, transfers or changes in any of the items
included in the preliminary budget. (1988 Code § 3-2-1)
      7.   Supervise the expenditures of all departments, divisions or services
of the town government and act as purchasing agent for the purchase 3 , where
the amount of the purchase does not exceed the sum as provided by resolution of
the town council, of all supplies, goods, wares, merchandise, equipment and
material which may be required for any of such departments, divisions or
services, except where otherwise provided by law. (1988 Code § 3-2-1; amd. 2004
Code)
      8.   Analyze and supervise the functions, duties and activities of the
various departments, boards and services of the town government and of all
employees thereof, and make such recommendations to the town council with
reference thereto as in his judgment will result in the overall operation of
the town government in the highest degree of efficiency.
      9.   Develop and organize necessary improvement projects and programs and
aid and assist the town council and the various departments and boards in
carrying the same through to a successful conclusion.
      10.   Serve as public relations officer of the town government, and
follow through and endeavor to adjust all complaints filed against any
employee, department or service thereof to the end that every effort may be
made to satisfy all citizens that their town government is being operated in
their behalf with the highest degree of efficiency.
      11.   Make and keep an up to date inventory of all personal property
owned by the town or leased under a lease-purchase arrangement and recommend to
the council the purchase or lease of new machinery, equipment and supplies
whenever, in his judgement, the same can be obtained at the best advantage,
taking into consideration trade-in value of machinery, equipment, etc., in use.
      12.   See that all laws and ordinances of the town are duly enforced.
      13.   Consolidate or combine offices, positions, departments or units
under his jurisdiction, with the approval of the council. The town manager may
be the head of one or more departments and may act as town clerk in addition to
his other duties if so directed by the council.
      14.   See that all franchises, permits and privileges granted by the town
are faithfully observed.
      15.   Devote his entire time to the discharge of his official duties.
      16.   Perform such other duties as may be required of him by the council,
not inconsistent with the laws of the state or the ordinances of the town.
   B.   Restrictions: The town manager shall not exercise any policy making or
legislative functions nor attempt to commit or bind the council or any member
thereof to any action, plan or program requiring official action of the
council. It is not intended by this article to grant any authority to, or
impose any duty upon the town manager which is vested in or imposed by general
law or town ordinances in any other town commission, board, officer or employee
except as specifically set forth in this code.
   C.   Council Interference: Neither the council nor any of its members shall
direct or request the appointment of any person to, or his removal from, office
by the town manager or in any manner take part in the appointment. (1988 Code §
3-2-1)
 
Notes
  2. See section 1-11-3 of this title, manager serve as purchasing officer; see
1 section 6-1-5 of this code, fiscal matters of the police department are
  coordinated with the town manager.
2 1. See also section
  1-7-1 of this title.
3 2. See also section
  1-11-3 of this title.
1-7A-4: ABSENCE RESTRICTED:
The town manager shall not absent himself from the town for a greater period
than fifteen (15) days without the notification of the council. (2004 Code)
1-7A-5: REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
The town manager may be removed, with or without cause, by the council by
simple majority vote of its members, unless the council has entered into a
contract of employment with the town manager, in which event, the town manager
may be removed only in accordance with the terms of such contract and for good
cause. (1988 Code § 3-2-1)
1-7A-6: COMPENSATION:
The town manager shall receive such compensation as the council shall fix from
time to time. (1988 Code § 3-2-1)
ARTICLE B.  TOWN CLERK 1
SECTION:
1-7B-1: Duties
 
Notes
1 1. ARS §§ 9-237, 9-238; see subsection 1-7A-3A13 of this title, town manager
  may serve as clerk.
1-7B-1: DUTIES:
The town clerk shall:
   A.   Records:
      1.   Keep a true and correct record of all business transacted by the
council and any other records that either pertain to the business of the town
or that the council directs. The clerk shall number, plainly label and file
separately in a suitable cabinet all resolutions, ordinances, notices, deeds,
surveys, leases, paid and unpaid vouchers, inventories, letters, orders and
other documents of whatever nature.
      2.   Keep convenient for public inspection all public records and public
documents under his control, as provided by state statute.
   B.   Minutes: Prepare or cause to be prepared all minutes of council
proceedings and ensure their correctness and accuracy.
   C.   Ordinances, Resolutions, Budgets And Notices: Process, record, file,
publish and, if required by state statute, post all ordinances, resolutions,
budgets and notices that may be passed by the council.
   D.   Election Official: Be the town election official and perform those
duties required by state statute.
   E.   Licenses: Issue or cause to be issued all licenses that may be
prescribed by state statute or this code.
   F.   Administrative Duties: Perform those administrative responsibilities
and duties that are conferred upon him by the council or manager in addition to
those specified in this code. (1988 Code § 3-2-2)
ARTICLE C.  TOWN TREASURER
SECTION:
1-7C-1: Duties
1-7C-1: DUTIES:
The town treasurer shall receive and safely keep all monies that shall come to
the town and pay out the same when authorized by the council, or manager, as
authorized by the council. He shall keep a separate record and account of each
different fund provided by the council, apportion the monies received among the
different funds as prescribed by the council, and keep a complete set of books
showing every money transaction of the town, the state of each fund, from what
source the money in each fund was derived and for what purpose expended. He
shall make periodic reports to the council of all receipts and disbursements
and the balance in each fund. (1988 Code § 3-2-2; amd. 2004 Code)
ARTICLE D.  TOWN ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-7D-1: Duties
1-7D-1: DUTIES:
The town attorney shall act as the legal counselor and advisor of the council
and other officials and, as such, shall give his opinion in writing when
requested. He shall draft all deeds, contracts, conveyances, ordinances,
resolutions and other legal instruments when required by the council. He shall
approve as to form, in writing, all drafts of contracts and all official or
other bonds before final approval or acceptance thereof by the council. He
shall prosecute and defend all suits, actions or causes where the town is a
party, and shall report to the council, when required, the condition of any
suit or action to which the town is a party. (1988 Code § 3-2-5)
ARTICLE E.  TOWN ENGINEER 1
SECTION:
1-7E-1: Duties
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 9-238.
1-7E-1: DUTIES:
The town engineer shall have charge of the town streets, sewers and waterworks
and shall perform such duties as may be required of him by law and as the
council may deem necessary. (1988 Code § 3-2-4)
ARTICLE F.  PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR
SECTION:
1-7F-1: Duties And Responsibilities
1-7F-2: Staff
1-7F-3: Supervision
1-7F-1: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The public works director is responsible for organizing, directing and
coordinating the activities of the several divisions comprising the public
works department. The public works director is responsible for determining
major departmental policies, for planning long term programs and for making
difficult technical decisions. The officer delegates authority for the
performance of maintenance and operation activities, and the major emphasis in
his work is for overall administration and coordination. The work involves
definite responsibility for supervision and decision on technical problems, and
such activities are an important part of his work. (1988 Code § 3-2-7)
1-7F-2: STAFF:
Through subordinate supervisors, direction is given to a staff of technical,
skilled and unskilled workers. (1988 Code § 3-2-7)
1-7F-3: SUPERVISION:
Work is performed under general direction of the town manager. (1988 Code § 3-
2-7)
CHAPTER 8
MAGISTRATE'S COURT 1
SECTION:
1-8-1: Court Established; Jurisdiction
1-8-2: Town Magistrate
1-8-3: Pro Tem Town Magistrate
1-8-4: Hearing Officers; Appeal Of Decisions
1-8-5: Court Proceedings
1-8-6: Monies Owed; Referral To Collection Agency
1-8-7: Court Fees And Charges
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 22-401 et seq.
1-8-1: COURT ESTABLISHED; JURISDICTION:
There is hereby established in the town a magistrate's court which shall have
jurisdiction of all violations of this code and jurisdiction concurrently with
justices of the peace of precincts in which the town is located of violation of
laws of the state committed within the limits of the town. (1988 Code art. 5-1)
1-8-2: TOWN MAGISTRATE:
   A.   Presiding Officer Of Court; Appointment And Term: The town magistrate
shall be the presiding officer of the magistrate's court and shall be appointed
by the council. A magistrate shall serve for a term of two (2) years with the
beginning and end of the term to be specified at the time of appointment 1 .
   B.   Removal From Office: During such term, a magistrate may be removed only
for cause. (1988 Code §§ 3-2-6,
5-2-1)
   C.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   The town magistrate shall perform those functions necessary to the
maintenance of the magistrate's court as provided by state statute. (1988 Code
§ 3-2-6)
      2.   The powers and duties of the magistrate shall include:
         a.   The powers and duties set forth and conferred upon him under the
provisions of the state constitution and statutes, this code and the ordinances
and resolutions of the town.
         b.   The keeping of a docket in which shall be entered each action and
the proceedings of the court therein.
         c.   The responsibility for fixing and receiving all bonds and bails
and receiving all fines, penalties, fees and other monies as provided by law.
         d.   Payment of all fees, fines, penalties and other monies collected
by the court to the treasurer.
         e.   Submitting a report as required by the council summarizing court
activities.
         f.   Preparation of a schedule of traffic violations not involving the
death of a person, listing specific bail for each violation. (1988 Code § 5-2-
3)
         g.   Appointing one or more pro tem town magistrates pursuant to
subsection
1-8-3B of this chapter. (Ord. 01-2014, 5-6-2014)
 
Notes
1 2. See also subsection 1-7-1A of this title.
1-8-3: PRO TEM TOWN MAGISTRATE:
   A.   Every magistrate, pro tem magistrate, justice of the peace, pro tem
justice of the peace, judge of the superior court, pro tem judge of the
superior court and superior court commissioner so employed by any county, city
or town of the state of Arizona, is qualified to serve as a pro tem town
magistrate and, if appointed to serve in such capacity by the town magistrate,
shall be permitted to serve as a pro tem town magistrate without the formality
of ratification of such appointment by the council.
   B.   The town magistrate may, but is not required to, appoint one or more
pro tem town magistrates not otherwise qualified to serve as pro tem town
magistrate pursuant to subsection A of this section, with the advice and
consent of the council.
   C.   A pro tem town magistrate shall, while serving, have all the duties,
responsibilities and authority of the town magistrate.
   D.   Any pro tem town magistrate shall perform the duties of town magistrate
on a temporary basis in the absence of the town magistrate.
   E.   A pro tem town magistrate shall, regardless of the presence or absence
of the town magistrate, preside over such matters as are assigned by the town
magistrate.
   F.   The term for a pro tem town magistrate shall be specified at the time
of appointment. During such term, any pro tem town magistrate shall be removed
only for cause. (Ord. 01-2014, 5-6-2014)
1-8-4: HEARING OFFICERS; APPEAL OF DECISIONS:
The town council may appoint one or more hearing officers to preside over civil
traffic violation cases when the appointment of such hearing officers is deemed
necessary to assure prompt disposition of civil traffic violation cases.
Hearing officers may hear and dispose of civil traffic violation cases under
supervision of the town magistrate which are appealable to the superior court
pursuant to Arizona Revised Statutes title 22, chapter 2, article 4. (1988 Code
§ 5-2-4; amd. 2004 Code)
1-8-5: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Conduct Of Proceedings: The proceedings shall be conducted in
accordance with the state constitution, the applicable state statutes and rules
of the state supreme court pertaining to  municipal courts including the code
of judicial conduct. The proceedings shall also be conducted in accordance with
the rules of criminal procedure for the superior court, unless otherwise
prescribed, and provided this code and resolutions of the town are not in
conflict therewith. (1988 Code art. 5-3; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Complaint: The magistrate's court proceedings shall be commenced by
complaint under oath and in the name of the state setting forth the offense
charged, with such particulars of time, place, person and property as to enable
the defendant to understand distinctly the character of the offense complained
of and to answer the complaint.
   C.   Subpoenas, Summonses And Warrants: If the magistrate is satisfied that
the offense complained of has been committed by the person charged, he shall
issue a summons or a warrant of arrest. Before issuing a summons or warrant of
arrest on a complaint, the magistrate may subpoena and examine witnesses as to
the truth of the complaint. (1988 Code art. 5-3)
1-8-6: MONIES OWED; REFERRAL TO COLLECTION AGENCY:
The magistrate's court may use professional debt collection services for
accounts receivable and other monies owed by defendants to the court or to
victims of crimes. Upon assignment of an account to a collection agency, the
court shall add an amount not to exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the unpaid
balance of the account to the amount owed. (Ord. 1-2001, 4-3-2001)
1-8-7: COURT FEES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Fee Schedule: In addition to any other fees and charges authorized by
law to be charged including, but not limited to, fees for filing, copying and
certification, the magistrate court is authorized to impose the following fees
and allocate charges to the parties who have caused the charges to be incurred:
      1.   Time Payment Fee: A court user fee in the amount of twenty dollars
($20.00) is hereby established. The town magistrate shall direct a defendant or
a court user to pay the court user fee in all cases processed by the court
which result in an order or agreement to pay any fine, sanction, penalty or
assessment or participate in any court authorized diversion program. The court
user fee shall be collected by the court for deposit in the town's time payment
fund.
      2.   Court Improvement Fee: The court shall impose a court improvement
fee in the amount of ten dollars ($10.00) per violation, which shall be applied
by the court on all fines, sanctions, penalties and assessments imposed by the
court. The court improvement fee shall be collected by the court for deposit in
a court improvement fund account maintained by the town and shall be used
exclusively to enhance the court's technological, operational and security
capabilities. The town shall invest the monies in the same manner as other town
funds. Interest earned on the monies shall be deposited in the fund.
      3.   Prosecution Fee: Upon a defendant's conviction at trial or by plea
agreement, the court shall impose a onetime prosecution fee per citation
against each defendant in an amount set forth below:
         a.   The prosecution fee for a misdemeanor citation shall be ten
dollars ($10.00).
         b.   The prosecution fee for a violation of title 28, chapter 4,
Arizona Revised Statutes, shall be thirty five dollars ($35.00).
         c.   A prosecution fee of a higher or lower amount may be imposed as
set forth in a written plea agreement and based upon the actual cost of
prosecuting the citation and/or the indigent status of the defendant.
      4.   Warrant Administrative Fee: The court shall order the payment of a
fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) by each defendant for whom the court enters an
arrest warrant for failure to appear, or for failure to pay any fine,
restitution, or other court imposed fee or obligation, or failure to comply
with any other court order. This fee shall be added to any amounts owed by the
defendant. (Ord. 05-2009, 8-4-2009)
      5.   Suspension Fee: The court shall order the payment of a fee of fifty
dollars ($50.00) by any defendant for the suspension issued by the court of the
defendant's driver's license. Any defendant who has had a suspension issued by
the court for failure to appear in a civil traffic violation case or for
failure to satisfy in full a civil sanction imposed in a civil traffic
violation case shall be required to pay this fee to the court for the cost of
issuing and servicing the suspension. This fee shall be applied to each
suspension issued. (Ord. 07-2009, 10-6-2009)
      6.   Jury Cancellation Fee: A jury cancellation fee shall be imposed by
the court on any party who requests a jury trial in the magistrate court, if
within five (5) days of trial and after the court has arranged for the paneling
of a jury, the party decides to not proceed with the jury trial. The amount of
the jury cancellation fee shall be the actual costs incurred in connection with
the canceled paneling and shall not be less than one hundred dollars ($100.00)
nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
      7.   Jail Cost Fee: The court may, pursuant to state law, as a part of a
sentence imposed by the court order a person sentenced to serve time in jail to
reimburse the town for all or part of the actual cost of his/her incarceration
incurred by the town as a result of that incarceration at the daily rates
charged to the town by the jail.
      8.   Returned Check Fee: The court shall order the payment of a fee of
twenty five dollars ($25.00) by any person paying the court with a check that
is dishonored by a financial institution. This fee will be in addition to any
fees imposed on the court by the bank or financial institution for processing
the dishonored check or financial instrument.
      9.   Collection Fees: A defendant who defaults in his or her obligation
for the payment of monies owed or due to the magistrate court, including, but
not limited to, restitution, fines, sanctions, surcharges, assessments,
penalties, bonds, costs and fees is liable for any fees and charges assessed by
a collection agency that is licensed pursuant to state law, and that is engaged
by the magistrate court to collect and enforce such payment. The collection
fees and charges assessed by the collection agency shall be added to the sum or
sums from and chargeable against the defendant.
   B.   Waiver Of Fees: Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, the town
magistrate may waive part or all of any fee imposed by this section if the
court finds the defendant is indigent, it would cause a hardship on the
defendant or his/her family, or if the town magistrate is of the opinion such
waiver would be in the interests of justice. (Ord. 05-2009, 8-4-2009)
CHAPTER 9
ELECTIONS 1
SECTION:
1-9-1: Primary Election
1-9-2: General Election
1-9-3: Election To Office
1-9-4: Nonpolitical Ballot
1-9-5: Candidate Financial Disclosure
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 9-821.01.
1-9-1: PRIMARY ELECTION 1 :
   A.   Date: Commencing in 2014, primary elections shall be held on the tenth
Tuesday before the first Monday in November of even numbered years or on the
date as otherwise prescribed by state law.
   B.   Election To Office: Any candidate who shall receive at the primary
election a majority of all the votes cast shall be declared to be elected to
the office for which he is a candidate effective as of the date of the general
election, and no further election shall be held as to said candidate; provided,
that if more candidates receive a majority than there are offices to be filled,
then those equal in number to the offices to be filled receiving the highest
number of votes shall be declared elected. However, nothing on the ballot shall
be indicative of the source of the candidacy or of the support of the
candidate.
   C.   Nomination For General Election: If, at any primary election held as
above provided, there be any office or offices for which no candidate is
elected, then as to such office or offices, said election shall be considered
to be a primary election for nomination of candidates for such office or
offices, and the second or general municipal election shall be held to vote for
candidates to fill such office or offices. (Ord. 02-2013, 11-19-2013)
 
Notes
1 2. ARS § 16-204.
1-9-2: GENERAL ELECTION 1 :
   A.   Date: Commencing in 2014, general elections of the town shall be held
on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November of even numbered years
or on the date as otherwise prescribed by state law.
   B.   General Election Candidates: Candidates to be placed on the ballot at a
general election shall be those not elected at the primary election, shall be
equal in number to twice the number to be elected to any given office or less
than that number if there is less than that number named on the primary
election ballot, and persons who receive the highest number of votes for the
respective offices at the primary election shall be the only candidates at the
general election; provided, that if there is any person who, under the
provisions of this chapter, would have been entitled to become a candidate for
any office except for the fact that some other candidate received an equal
number of votes therefor, then all such persons receiving an equal number of
votes shall likewise become candidates for such office. (Ord. 02-2013, 11-19-
2013)
 
Notes
1 3. ARS § 16-204.
1-9-3: ELECTION TO OFFICE:
The candidates equal in number to the persons to be elected who receive the
highest number of votes shall be declared elected. (1988 Code § 2-3-4)
1-9-4: NONPOLITICAL BALLOT:
Nothing on the ballot in any election shall be indicative of the support of the
candidate. (1988 Code § 2-3-2)
1-9-5: CANDIDATE FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 1 :
Each candidate for the office of council member shall file a financial
disclosure statement when such candidate files a nomination paper. The
statement shall contain such information as required by resolution of the
council pursuant to state law. (1988 Code § 2-3-5)
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 38-545; see also section 1-5-6 of this title.
CHAPTER 10
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND CONTRACTS
SECTION:
1-10-1: Attorney Review And Referral
1-10-2: Authority To Introduce
1-10-3: Effective Date
1-10-4: Publishing Requirements
1-10-5: Additional Requirements For Ordinances
1-10-1: ATTORNEY REVIEW AND REFERRAL:
All ordinances, resolutions and contract documents shall, before presentation
to the Council, have been reviewed as to form by the Town Attorney and shall,
when there are substantive matters of administration involved, be referred to
the person who is charged with the administration of the matters. Such person
shall have an opportunity to present his objections, if any, prior to the
passage of the ordinance, resolution or acceptance of the contract. (1988 Code
§ 2-5-1)
1-10-2: AUTHORITY TO INTRODUCE:
Ordinances, resolutions, and other matters or subjects requiring action by the
Council shall be introduced and sponsored by a member of the Council; except,
that the Town Attorney, the Town Manager or the Town Clerk may present
ordinances, resolutions and other matters or subjects to the Council, and any
Council member may assume sponsorship thereof by moving that such ordinance,
resolution, matter or subject be adopted; otherwise, they shall not be
considered. (1988 Code § 2-5-2)
1-10-3: EFFECTIVE DATE 1 :
No ordinance, resolution or franchise shall become operative until thirty (30)
days after its passage by the Council and approval by the Mayor, unless it is
passed over the Mayor's veto, and then it shall not become operative until
thirty (30) days after final approval and until certification by the Town Clerk
of the minutes of the meeting at which the action was taken, except measures
necessary for the immediate preservation of the peace, health or safety of the
Town, but such an emergency measure shall not become immediately operative
unless it states in a separate section the reason why it is necessary that it
should become immediately operative and unless it is approved by the
affirmative vote of not less than three-fourths (3/4) of all the members
elected to the Council, taken by ayes and nays. (1988 Code § 2-5-6; amd. 2004
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 19-142B, as to emergency clause.
1-10-4: PUBLISHING REQUIREMENTS 1 :
Only such ordinances, resolutions, motions, regulations or proceedings of the
Council shall be published as may be required by State Statutes or expressly
ordered by the Council. (1988 Code § 2-5-8)
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 9-812.
1-10-5: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ORDINANCES:
   A.   Reserved. (Ord. 05-2018, 8-7-2018)
   B.   Separate Readings: The Town Council may adopt all ordinances and
resolutions by motion only, and without the requirement of the separate reading
by title or otherwise, if the Mayor or Vice Mayor and Council members present
at the Council meeting are in possession of a printed or electronic copy of the
ordinance or resolution or such ordinance or resolution was on file or
available with the Town Clerk at least twenty four (24) hours prior to Council
action on the ordinance or resolution. If the Mayor or Vice Mayor and Council
members present were not in possession of a printed or electronic copy as
required hereunder, the ordinance and resolution may be adopted after having
been read by title only. (Ord. 01-2016, 1-19-2016)
   C.   Contents: Each ordinance should have but one subject, the nature of
which is clearly expressed in the title. Whenever possible, each ordinance
shall be introduced as an amendment to this Code or to an existing ordinance,
and in such case, the title, chapter and sections to be amended shall be
included in the ordinance 1 . (1988 Code § 2-5-5; amd. 2004 Code)
   D.   Signatures Required: Every ordinance passed by the Council shall,
before it becomes effective, be signed by the Mayor and attested by the Clerk.
(1988 Code § 2-5-7)
   E.   Posting Required 2 : Every ordinance imposing any penalty, fine,
forfeiture or other punishment shall, after passage, be posted by the Clerk in
three (3) or more public places within the Town, and an affidavit of the person
who posted the ordinance shall be filed in the Office of the Clerk as proof of
posting. (1988 Code § 2-5-9)
 
Notes
1 2. See also section
  1-1-3 of this title.
2 3. ARS § 9-813.
CHAPTER 11
PURCHASING SYSTEM
SECTION:
1-11-1: System Adopted; Purpose
1-11-2: Centralized Purchasing Office
1-11-3: Purchasing Officer
1-11-4: Requisitions And Purchase Orders
1-11-5: Purchasing Procedures
1-11-6: Bid Procedures
1-11-7: Petty Cash Fund
1-11-8: Surplus Supplies And Equipment
1-11-9: Cooperative Purchasing
1-11-1: SYSTEM ADOPTED; PURPOSE:
In order to establish efficient procedures for the purchase or sale of supplies
and equipment; to secure for the town supplies and equipment at the lowest
possible cost commensurate with the quality needed; to obtain the maximum
return of funds or value for material sold; to exercise positive financial
control over leases, rentals, purchases and sales; to clearly define authority
for this function; and to assure the quality of material leased, rented, or
purchased, a purchasing system is hereby adopted. (1988 Code § 3-4-1)
1-11-2: CENTRALIZED PURCHASING OFFICE:
There is hereby created a centralized purchasing office in which is vested
authority for the purchase of supplies and equipment. (1988 Code § 3-4-2)
1-11-3: PURCHASING OFFICER:
The purchasing officer shall be the town manager. The manager shall have
general supervision of the purchasing office and the authority to:
   A.   Purchase or contract for supplies and equipment required by a
department in accordance with the purchasing procedures prescribed by this
chapter.
   B.   Establish such rules, regulations, forms and other items for the
operation of the purchasing office as he may deem necessary.
   C.   Negotiate and recommend to the council execution of contracts for the
purchase of supplies and equipment as required.
   D.   Act to procure for the town the required quality in supplies and
equipment at the least expense to the town.
   E.   Transfer surplus or unused supplies and equipment between departments
as needed and sell all supplies and equipment which cannot be used by any
agency or which have become unsuitable for town use. A surplus property list
shall first be submitted to the council for approval prior to any disposition
of such property to any other agency, person or firm. (1988 Code § 3-4-3)
1-11-4: REQUISITIONS AND PURCHASE ORDERS:
   A.   Requisitions: All departments shall submit requests for supplies and
equipment to the purchasing officer by standard requisition forms. (1988 Code §
3-4-4)
   B.   Purchase Orders:
      1.   All purchases of supplies and equipment shall be made only by
written purchase order, except for those purchases of less than twenty five
dollars ($25.00) which may be made from petty cash.
      2.   Only the purchasing officer or a designated representative may sign
purchase orders and approve a purchase or reimbursement from petty cash upon
presentation of proper receipts as provided in section
1-11-7 of this chapter. (1988 Code § 3-4-5)
1-11-5: PURCHASING PROCEDURES:
   A.   The purchasing officer shall make purchases, leases, rentals and
contracts for supplies and equipment not to exceed an amount established by
resolution of the council 1  in the open market, after such inquiry as the
purchasing officer deems necessary to ensure the price obtained is the most
advantageous to the town.
   B.   For purchases, leases, rentals and contracts for supplies and equipment
in excess of the amount established pursuant to subsection A of this section
and a greater amount established by resolution, and for the acquisition of any
used equipment, the purchasing officer shall solicit price quotations orally,
by telephone, or in writing from at least three (3) suppliers, whenever
practicable, and shall keep on file a tabulation of solicitations made or
quotations received.
   C.   For purchases, leases, rentals and contracts for supplies and new
equipment in excess of the limits set by resolution pursuant to subsection B of
this section, the purchasing officer shall invite bids by: (1988 Code § 3-4-6)
      1.   Advertisement in at least one newspaper of general circulation in
the town, at least ten (10) days before the bid opening date; and (1988 Code §
3-4-6; amd. 2004 Code)
      2.   Mailing of invitations to bid to at least three (3) suppliers, and
the posting of a notice on the public bulletin board in the town hall.
   D.   The council may, by majority vote, waive the limits set by resolution
adopted pursuant to this chapter upon finding that the items or services sought
are available only from a single source or that an emergency exists of such
import that the public health and safety will be jeopardized by delay resulting
in adherence to limits or the procedures prescribed by the provisions of this
chapter. (1988 Code § 3-4-6)
   E.   Normal purchasing procedures will be dispensed with only on the
declaration of an emergency by the mayor, or in his absence the vice mayor, or
a quorum of the council in regular or special session. All such actions,
including documentation to the effect that the expenditures and emergency
procedures were justified to save life or property, will be made a matter of
public record at the next public council meeting excepting only those actions
directly relating to police activities which are exempted from public
disclosure by state statute. Such exempted actions will be brought instead to
the council in executive session prior to the next public council meeting.
(1988 Code § 3-4-10)
   F.   Purchases of used equipment or materials, including used vehicles, may
be made without following the procedure set forth in section
1-11-6 of this chapter, upon written recommendation from the purchasing agent
and approval by the town council. The purchasing agent's recommendation shall
include:
      1.   A statement as to why such a purchase would be advantageous to the
town versus purchasing the item new, including evaluation of the benefits to
the town in price, quality, condition and fitness for purpose.
      2.   A statement as to the vendors solicited for the purchase, and the
due diligence conducted by the purchasing agent as to the proposed item to be
purchased. (Ord. 01-2010, 3-2-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 1-7A-3A7 of this title.
1-11-6: BID PROCEDURES:
   A.   Sealed Bids; Public Opening: Sealed bids shall be submitted to the
purchasing officer and shall be identified as bids on the envelope. Bids shall
be opened in public at the time and place stated in the public notice. A
tabulation of all bids received shall be retained on file for public inspection
during regular business hours following the bid opening.
   B.   Rejection Of Bids: At its discretion, the council may reject any and
all bids.
   C.   Award Of Contracts: Contracts shall be awarded by the council to the
lowest responsible bidder, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   D.   Tied Bids: If two (2) or more bids received are for the same total
amount or unit price, quality and service being equal, and if the public
interest will not permit the delay of readvertising for bids, the council shall
determine the successful bidder to be the one with an established place of
business in the town, if there be such; otherwise, determination shall be by
lot. (1988 Code § 3-4-7)
1-11-7: PETTY CASH FUND:
   A.   Expenditures: Expenditures, not to exceed an amount set by resolution,
may be made from a petty cash fund and supported by receipts.
   B.   Amount Of Fund Limited: The purchasing officer may establish such petty
cash fund in an amount he deems necessary, but not to exceed one hundred
dollars ($100.00), without approval of the council. (1988 Code § 3-4-8)
1-11-8: SURPLUS SUPPLIES AND EQUIPMENT:
All departments and officers shall submit to the purchasing officer, at such
time and in such form as he shall prescribe, reports showing all supplies and
equipment which are no longer used or which have become obsolete or worn out.
The purchasing officer shall have the authority to sell all supplies and
equipment which cannot be used or which have become unsuitable for town use or
to exchange the same for or trade in the same for new supplies and equipment.
Such sales shall be made pursuant to section
1-11-5 of this chapter. (1988 Code § 3-4-9)
1-11-9: COOPERATIVE PURCHASING:
   A.   Purchasing Agreements: The town may either participate in, sponsor,
conduct or administer a cooperative purchasing agreement for the procurement of
any supplies, services or construction with one or more public procurement
units in accordance with an agreement entered into between the participants.
Such cooperative purchasing may include, but is not limited to, joint or
multiparty contracts between public procurement units, and open ended state
public procurement unit contracts which are made available to other public
procurement units.
   B.   Sale, Acquisition Or Use Of Supplies: The town may sell to, acquire
from or use any supplies belonging to another public procurement unit
independent of the requirements of sections
1-11-5 and
1-11-6 of this chapter.
   C.   Cooperative Use Of Supplies And Services: The town may enter into an
agreement with any other public procurement unit for the cooperative use of
supplies or services, under the terms agreed upon between the parties.
   D.   Joint Use Facilities: The town may enter into agreements for the common
use or lease of warehousing facilities, capital equipment and other facilities
with another public procurement unit under the terms agreed upon between the
parties. (1988 Code § 3-4-11)
CHAPTER 12
USE OF TOWN FACILITIES
SECTION:
1-12-1: Conditions Of Use
1-12-2: Supervision
1-12-3: Fees And Charges
1-12-4: Insurance Required
1-12-5: Rules And Regulations
1-12-1: CONDITIONS OF USE:
   A.   Use By Organizations: With respect to the town facilities by other than
members of the public on an individual basis, town facilities may be used by
organizations, provided the following conditions are met as determined by the
town manager:
      1.   The requesting organization shall be a responsible, properly
organized community group;
      2.   The use of the town facilities shall be for the purposes of
education, civic welfare or such other appropriate purpose as determined by the
town manager;
      3.   The use shall not interfere with any town activity or cause
extraordinary wear and tear of the facility; and
      4.   All other rules and regulations pertaining to the use of the
facility have been or will be met.
   B.   Use By Individuals: The use of town facilities by members of the public
on an individual basis, such as use of recreational facilities, shall be
subject to the rules and regulations established by the town manager or the
applicable department head. (1988 Code § 3-6-1)
1-12-2: SUPERVISION:
The use of town facilities shall at all times be under the supervision of town
personnel. (1988 Code § 3-6-1)
1-12-3: FEES AND CHARGES:
Fees and charges for use of town facilities by both organizations and by
individual members of the public shall be established from time to time by
resolution of the mayor and common council of the town. (1988 Code § 3-6-2)
1-12-4: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
Organizations using town facilities shall provide insurance to the town of the
types and in the amounts determined by the town manager. (1988 Code § 3-6-2)
1-12-5: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The town manager or applicable department heads shall establish such rules and
regulations as are needed to assure the preservation and orderly use of the
town facilities. (1988 Code § 3-6-2)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Commission Provisions
2-1-1: COMMISSION PROVISIONS:
See section
10-2-2 of this code for planning and zoning commission provisions. (Ord. 03-
2005, 9-6-2005)
CHAPTER 2
BOARDS, COMMITTEES, AND COMMISSIONS
SECTION:
2-2-1: Composition
2-2-2: Appointments; Terms
2-2-3: Nomination Of Members
2-2-4: Vacancies; Absences
2-2-5: Removal Of Members
2-2-1: COMPOSITION:
All town boards, committees, and commissions shall be composed of regular and
alternate members who shall be residents of the town. All board, committee, and
commission nominations are subject to the approval of a majority of the town
council members eligible to vote on the nomination. (Ord. 02-2009, 5-5-2009)
2-2-2: APPOINTMENTS; TERMS:
Appointments to boards, committees, and commissions shall be for a period of
four (4) years each, with the terms of the members so staggered that the terms
of no more than one less than a quorum of members shall expire in any one year
(e.g., a 7 member board may have 3 members expire in a year, a 5 member board
may have 2 members expire in a year). (Ord. 02-2009, 5-5-2009)
2-2-3: NOMINATION OF MEMBERS:
Members of the town council shall present the nominations of regular and
alternate members of boards, committees, and commissions at the second council
meeting in the month of May, or as are needed. Any alternate members shall be
designated in order (e.g., first alternate, second alternate, etc.), and shall
fill vacant seats of regular members in such order. (Ord. 02-2009, 5-5-2009)
2-2-4: VACANCIES; ABSENCES:
In the event that any regular or alternate member's term expires, that member
shall maintain all their appointed rights and responsibilities until such time
that a nomination is approved. In the event of a death or resignation of a
member, the vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term by an alternate
member from the same board, committee, or commission. Any regular or alternate
member who has unexcused absences for at least fifty percent (50%) of the
regular meetings of a board, committee, or commission in a given calendar year
or three (3) consecutive unexcused absences, shall be considered as not
fulfilling the obligation assumed by acceptance of appointment to the board,
committee, or commission. Excused absences shall include, but are not limited
to, family and health related issues. The decision on whether an absence was
excused or unexcused shall ultimately be decided by the chairperson of the
board, committee, or commission. The chairperson of the board, committee, or
commission will report to the staff liaison the status of each member's
absences. The staff liaison will record absences throughout the year and
provide a report to the town council at the second council meeting in April.
(Ord. 02-2009, 5-5-2009)
2-2-5: REMOVAL OF MEMBERS:
The town council may remove any member of a board, committee, or commission
with or without cause as determined by the town council, prior to the
expiration of a member's term, upon an affirmative vote for removal of a
majority of the members of the town council eligible to vote on the removal.
Members of boards, committees, and commissions who are appointed or reappointed
following the effective date hereof shall serve no more than two (2)
consecutive four (4) year terms. (Ord. 02-2009, 5-5-2009)
TITLE 3
TAX CODE
CHAPTER 1
TOWN TAX CODE
SECTION:
3-1-1: Code Adopted
3-1-2: Violation; Penalty
3-1-1: CODE ADOPTED:
That certain document known as "the 2010-11 amendments to the tax code of the
town of Parker", three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the
town clerk of the town of Parker, Arizona, which document was made a public
record by resolution 10-2011 of the town of Parker, Arizona, is hereby referred
to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this chapter. (Ord.
08-2011, 7-5-2011)
3-1-2: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person found guilty of violating any provision of these amendments to the
tax code shall be guilty of a class one misdemeanor. Each day that a violation
continues shall be a separate offense punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 08-2011, 7-5-2011)
TITLE 4
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS 1
SECTION:
4-1-1: Jurisdiction
4-1-2: License And Compliance Required
4-1-3: Separate Licenses Required
4-1-4: Issuance And Posting Of License
4-1-5: License Taxes
4-1-6: Special Events With Alcohol Sales
4-1-7: Offensive Businesses Prohibited
4-1-8: Exemptions From Provisions
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 9-240, subsection B18.
4-1-1: JURISDICTION:
For purposes of this chapter, the town shall include the corporate limits of
the townsite together with that area included within a two (2) mile radius of
the townsite. (1988 Code § 8-2-9; amd. 2004 Code)
4-1-2: LICENSE AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to transact or carry on any trade, calling,
profession, occupation or business without first having procured a license from
the town and without complying with any and all regulations of such trade,
calling, profession, occupation or business designated and contained in this
chapter. The practicing, transacting or carrying on of such trades, callings,
professions, occupations or businesses without first having procured a license
and without complying with any and all regulations contained in this chapter
shall constitute a separate violation of this chapter for each and every day
that such trade, calling, profession, occupation or business is practiced or
carried on within the town. (1988 Code §
8-2-1)
4-1-3: SEPARATE LICENSES REQUIRED:
A separate license must be obtained for each branch establishment or separate
place of business in which any trade, calling, profession, occupation or
business is practiced, transacted or carried on, and for each trade, calling,
profession, occupation or business practiced, transacted or carried on at the
same place. Each license issued shall authorize the person obtaining it to
practice, transact, carry on, pursue or conduct only that trade, calling,
profession, occupation or business described in such license, and only at the
location or place of business therein described. (1988 Code § 8-2-7)
4-1-4: ISSUANCE AND POSTING OF LICENSE:
Licenses shall be issued by the town clerk from a book of licenses numbered
consecutively and so printed that an exact duplicate of the license remains
permanently bound in the book. The licensee shall keep the license posted in
his place of business or carried on his person while engaging in the business
or occupation licensed. (1988 Code § 8-2-8)
4-1-5: LICENSE TAXES 1 :
   A.   Merchants: Merchants shall pay a license tax based upon their gross
revenue as provided in this subsection. The term "merchant", as used in this
subsection, means any person who, at a fixed place in the town, engages in any
business and who is not otherwise specifically licensed herein. (1988 Code §
8-2-2)
   B.   Property Rental: The license tax on rental of real property, whether
business, commercial or residential, including the rental as landlord of
private residences, shall be in an amount as provided by resolution of the
council for any person renting to not less than three (3) nor more than five
(5) tenants. Any person renting to two (2) or less tenants shall be exempt from
tax and license requirements under this chapter. All rentals of real property
by the same person anywhere in the town shall be aggregated to determine the
tax provided in this subsection. (1988 Code §
8-2-3)
   C.   Liquor Licenses: Certain liquor dealers as listed in this section shall
pay taxes as may from time to time be provided by resolution of the council. It
is expressly understood that the taxes set forth in this subsection shall have
included in them the taxes referred to in subsection A of this section. (1988
Code §
8-2-4; amd. 2004 Code)
      1.   Off sale retailers licensed to sell all spirituous liquors.
      2.   On sale retailers licensed to sell all spirituous liquors by
individual portions and in the original containers.
      3.   Off sale retailers licensed to sell wine and beer.
      4.   On sale retailers licensed to sell beer and wine by individual
portions and in the original containers.
      5.   On sale retailers licensed to sell beer by individual portions and
in individual containers.
      6.   Off sale retailers licensed to sell beer. (1988 Code §
8-2-4)
   D.   Circuses, Carnivals And Fortune Tellers: There shall be levied upon and
collected from any person, firm or corporation a license tax in an amount as
provided from time to time by resolution of the council, payable in advance,
before such person, firm or corporation shall establish, conduct or put on in
the town any of the following businesses or occupations:
      1.   Any traveling show, circus, carnival, rides or other concessions.
      2.   Fortune telling, the practice of astrology or the issuing of
horoscopes, whether engaged in for fee or profit or not. (1988 Code §
8-2-6)
   E.   Other Businesses: All persons engaging in business, for whom a tax is
not otherwise provided in this chapter, shall pay an annual license tax in an
amount as provided by resolution of the council. (1988 Code § 8-2-9)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 4-2-5 of this title, license taxes for peddlers and
  solicitors.
4-1-6: SPECIAL EVENTS WITH ALCOHOL SALES 1 :
   A.   Daily License May Be Required: The town manager may, subject to the
approval of the council, for events held within the town on a temporary basis,
daily issue a special event license, which may be extended for a period not to
exceed ten (10) days in the aggregate, authorizing the sale of spirituous
beverages to be sold on the premises.
   B.   Tax: The council may, if it so desires, authorize by resolution a
charge for the license.
   C.   Eligibility For License: The council may only issue the special event
license to a political party or campaign committee supporting a candidate for
public office or a ballot measure, an organization formed for a specific
charitable or civic purpose, a fraternal organization in existence for over
five (5) years with a regular membership, or a religious organization. (1988
Code § 8-2-10)
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 4-203.02.
4-1-7: OFFENSIVE BUSINESSES PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to establish or maintain any slaughterhouse or
make a practice of slaughtering cattle, hogs, sheep or any other kind of
animal, or establish or maintain any soap factory, render tallow, or pursue,
maintain or carry on any other business or occupation offensive to the senses
or prejudicial to the public health within the limits of the town. (1988 Code §
10-1-9)
4-1-8: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   Any person employed by any other person who pays a license tax as set
forth in this chapter. (1988 Code § 8-2-9)
   B.   Any person, firm or corporation from which the town, by virtue of the
constitution or laws of the United States or the constitution or laws of the
state of Arizona, is forbidden to require payment of a tax, but in any
prosecution under this chapter, the burden of proving such status is on the
defendant. (1988 Code § 8-2-9; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS 1
SECTION:
4-2-1: Registration Required
4-2-2: Application For Registration
4-2-3: Investigation Of Applicant
4-2-4: Registration Cards
4-2-5: License Tax
4-2-6: Uninvited Peddling Or Soliciting Prohibited
4-2-7: Sidewalk Stands; Permit Required
4-2-8: Newspaper Deliveries Exempt
4-2-9: Violations
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 9-240, subsection B18.
4-2-1: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Any person operating as a solicitor, peddler, hawker, salesman or vendor of
goods, wares, merchandise, newspapers, magazines or services, who goes from
house to house or to only one house in the town shall register with the police
department and obtain an identification card showing such registration. (1988
Code §
8-1-1)
4-2-2: APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION:
   A.   Applicants for police registration under the terms of section
4-2-1 of this chapter shall be required to furnish two (2) satisfactory
photographs of the applicant, one to be attached to the applicant's
registration card and the other to be retained by the police department.
   B.   Applicants for registration as peddlers or solicitors shall submit a
full set of fingerprints to the town police department for the purpose of
obtaining a state and federal criminal records check.  The chief of police
submit the fingerprints to the Arizona Department of Public Safety; pursuant to
ARS 41-1750 and Public Law (PL) 92-544. DPS is authorized to exchange this
fingerprint data with the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
   C.   Such applicants for police registration shall be required to furnish to
the police department a complete description of the product to be sold in the
town, together with information regarding sales methods to be used and
references that will enable the chief of police to determine whether or not
such applicant is qualified to receive a registration card as provided in
section
4-2-4 of this chapter. (1988 Code § 8-1-2; amd. Ord. 01-2021, 1-5-2021)
4-2-3: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
Investigation by the chief of police under the provisions of this chapter shall
be completed within thirty (30) days after the applicant has given the required
information. (1988 Code §
8-1-2; amd. 2004 Code)
4-2-4: REGISTRATION CARDS:
   A.   Issuance: Registration cards under this chapter shall be given to all
applicants who have complied with section
4-2-2  of this chapter, unless the chief of police discovers that any such
applicant is deemed not to be a proper person to be permitted to go from house
to house because of any of the following reasons: 1) he has a criminal record;
2) he is associated with a company that has engaged in fraudulent dealings; or
3) the proposed sales proposition includes some element of trickery, fraud or
deceit, in which case, in the interest of public safety and protection, the
applicant shall not be registered. (1988 Code § 8-1-3; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Revocation: Registration cards under this chapter may be revoked by the
town at any time if deemed necessary in the interest of public safety and
protection. (1988 Code § 8-1-3)
4-2-5: LICENSE TAX 1 :
   A.   Tax Required: Every traveling merchant, peddler and itinerant vendor
shall pay an annual license tax in advance to the town in an amount as provided
from time to time by resolution of the council. (1988 Code §§ 8-1-8, 8-2-5;
amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Exemptions From Tax:
      1.   This section does not apply to any person or corporation having a
regularly established store or place of business within the town nor to
merchants having regularly established stores or places of business outside of
the town if they limit sales to stores or persons in the town for the purpose
of resale. In any prosecution under this section, the burden of proof shall be
on the defendant to show that he comes within one of the exceptions in this
subsection B1.
      2.   This section does not apply to any person or corporation having, as
the only business within the town, a coin operated machine or machines for the
sale of newspapers. (1988 Code § 8-2-5)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 1 of this title for general licensing requirements.
4-2-6: UNINVITED PEDDLING OR SOLICITING PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any peddler, solicitor or canvasser in the course of his
business to ring the doorbell or knock at any building whereon a sign bearing
the message "no peddlers, solicitors or canvassers" is exposed to public view.
(1988 Code § 8-1-6)
4-2-7: SIDEWALK STANDS; PERMIT REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any booth, stand or counter
on any sidewalk in the town for the purpose of barter, sale or trade, or keep
or maintain upon the streets or alleys any wagon, cart, wheeled vehicle,
moveable booth or stand for the purpose of barter or trade without obtaining
permission of the council. (1988 Code § 8-1-5)
4-2-8: NEWSPAPER DELIVERIES EXEMPT:
Newsboys are exempt from the provisions of this chapter for the sale of
newspaper subscriptions. (1988 Code § 8-1-7)
4-2-9: VIOLATIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to take part in the act of soliciting, peddling,
hawking, selling or vending of goods, wares, merchandise, newspapers, magazines
or services from house to house, or to only one house, in the town without
having registered with the police department and without having obtained a
registration card, without having such card in possession, or failing to
exhibit such card when request is made for the registration card by any
resident of the town. (1988 Code § 8-1-4)
CHAPTER 3
PAWNBROKERS 1
SECTION:
4-3-1: Weekly Reports To Police
4-3-2: Inspection Of Premises, Records And Stock
4-3-3: Presence Of Stolen Goods
4-3-4: Display Of Regulations
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 9-240, subsection B18.
4-3-1: WEEKLY REPORTS TO POLICE:
Every person engaged in the business of pawnbroker within the corporate limits
of the town shall make out and deliver to the chief of police a true, correct,
complete and legible report of all goods and articles received on deposit or
consignment, in pawn, pledge, trade or exchange or by purchase. Said report
shall be made on forms furnished by the police department and shall be
delivered to the police department on Monday of each week. The report shall be
a list of all goods and articles received in pawn, pledge, trade or exchange or
by purchase during the previous week, Monday through Sunday. Each sheet shall
contain for each item:
   A.   A description of the property including brand name and serial number,
if any.
   B.   The amount loaned or paid for the property or amount allowed in trade.
   C.   The number of the pawn ticket.
   D.   The date and time when the property was received.
   E.   The signature of the person from whom the property was received along
with his name (printed), address and date of birth. The reporting party shall
require each such person to show proof of his identification by exhibiting
state or federal identification, unless such person is personally known by the
reporting party.
   F.   A description of such person, consisting of height, weight, complexion
and hair color. (1988 Code § 8-4-1)
4-3-2: INSPECTION OF PREMISES, RECORDS AND STOCK:
The business premises of any pawnbroker, along with the transaction records and
stock of goods and articles, shall be open at reasonable hours to reasonable
inspection by representatives of the police department. (1988 Code § 8-4-2)
4-3-3: PRESENCE OF STOLEN GOODS:
Upon notification by representatives of the police department that goods and
articles received on deposit or consignment in pawn, pledge, trade or exchange,
or by purchases are the fruits of a crime, no pawnbroker shall dispose of such
property. Interest upon such goods and articles pawned or pledged shall cease
to accrue on the date of such notification. (1988 Code § 8-4-3)
4-3-4: DISPLAY OF REGULATIONS:
Every person engaged in the business of a pawnbroker shall prominently display
a copy of this chapter in a conspicuous place on the premises of the business.
(1988 Code § 8-4-4)
CHAPTER 4
YARD SALES
SECTION:
4-4-1: Number Of Days And Frequency Of Sales
4-4-2: Advertising Signs
4-4-1: NUMBER OF DAYS AND FREQUENCY OF SALES:
Any yard sale conducted within the town limits will be limited to three (3)
days within any one week. Yard sales will be limited to four (4) within any
twelve (12) month period at the same location within the town limits. (Ord. 2-
2000, 11-7-2000)
4-4-2: ADVERTISING SIGNS:
Any sign placed for the purpose of advertising a yard sale shall comply with
requirements set forth for such signs in title 10 of this code. All yard sale
signs must be removed no later than eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. of the day
following the last day of sale. (Ord. 2-2000, 11-7-2000; amd. Ord. 03-2005, 9-
6-2005)
TITLE 5
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
GARBAGE, REFUSE, LITTER AND NUISANCES 1
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 9-240, subsection B21(a), and § 9-499.
ARTICLE A.  DEFINITIONS; ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
SECTION:
5-1A-1: Definitions
5-1A-2: Enforcement Officials
5-1A-3: Inspections; Entry Powers
5-1A-1: DEFINITIONS:
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the following words and
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
CONTAINERS: Litter storage and collection receptacles as required and
authorized in this chapter.
DEBRIS: Broken glass, broken concrete, broken plaster or gypsum board, scrap
lumber, siding or roofing materials, ceiling tile or floor covering materials,
broken asphalt materials, or broken concrete, clay, tile or plastic pipes or
any similar scrap building or construction materials.
GARBAGE: Any spoiled or discarded animal or vegetable material resulting from
the handling, preparation, cooking or consumption of food for humans or
animals, as well as other organic waste materials subject to rapid
decomposition.
JUNK: Scrap metal of all types; old appliances; motor vehicle parts; glass;
paper; cardboard; old wood or lumber; furniture; furniture parts; stoves;
sinks; cabinets; household fixtures; refrigerators; car parts; abandoned,
broken or neglected equipment; mattresses; or any other material of no apparent
economic value which is present in an obvious state of disarray.
LITTER: Any debris, garbage, junk, rubbish, trash or waste material, including
solid wastes including, but not limited to ashes, street cleanings, rubbish,
dead animals, solid market and industrial waste, paper, rags, empty barrels,
crates, packing cases, packing materials, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard,
cans, yard clippings, leaves, metal, crockery, boxes, bottles, glass, cartons,
refuse, plaster, plastics and other materials tending to create an unsightly
condition and having an adverse effect upon the health, safety, economic,
aesthetic or general welfare of adjoining properties or occupants.
LITTERING: Dumping, throwing, placing, depositing or leaving or causing to be
dumped, thrown, deposited or left, litter, garbage, debris, trash, refuse,
rubbish or junk of any kind on private or public property.
NUISANCE: Doing any act, or not performing a duty, or permitting any condition
or thing to exist, which act, omission, condition or thing consists of one of
the following:
   A.   Injures or endangers the health or safety of others.
   B.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct or render as
dangerous with the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any stream,
public park, parkway, square, sidewalk, alley, street, avenue, boulevard,
highway or right of way.
   C.   Obstructs the free use of property so as to substantially interfere
with the comfortable enjoyment of life and property by a family, person,
neighborhood or community.
PRIVATE PROPERTY: Any lot or lots, improved or unimproved, grounds, dwelling,
house, building, or other structure which is not public property and shall
include any yard, grounds, walkway, driveway, porch, steps or vestibules
belonging or pertinent to such lot, grounds, dwelling, house, building or other
structure.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Any and all public streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or
other public ways and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds, lots
and buildings.
REFUSE: Garbage or trash deposited in containers.
RESPONSIBLE PARTY: Any owner, tenant, renter, lessor, manager, or any fiduciary
or person with power of attorney who is in charge of the premises or has
authority and ability to act on behalf of or in the interest of the owner.
TRASH: Any solid waste consisting of both combustible and noncombustible waste,
such as paper, wrappings, weeds, cigarettes, cardboard, tin cans, yard
clippings, leaves, tree trimmings, metal, wood, glass, bedding, concrete,
construction materials and similar materials of no economic value. (Ord. 2-
2001, 5-15-2001)
5-1A-2: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
The town manager may appoint one or more employees to enforce the provisions of
this chapter. Citations may also be issued by the building, fire, and zoning
inspectors. Furthermore, the town manager's designee may appoint other
technical officers, inspectors and other employees that shall be authorized
from time to time as necessary to carry out the functions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2-2001, 5-15-2001)
5-1A-3: INSPECTIONS; ENTRY POWERS:
Whenever it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce the provisions of
this chapter, or whenever the town manager or his designee has reasonable cause
to believe that there exists upon any premises a violation of this chapter, the
town manager or his designee may enter in and upon such premises at reasonable
times to inspect the same or to perform any duty imposed by this chapter;
provided, that if such premises is occupied, he shall first present proper
credentials and request entry. If consent is denied or cannot be obtained,
neither the town manager nor his designee shall enter in or upon the premises
without proper execution of a consent to search or an administrative warrant
issued by a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 2-2001, 5-15-2001)
CHAPTER 1
GARBAGE, REFUSE, LITTER AND NUISANCES
ARTICLE B.  GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
5-1B-1: Preparation For Collection Or Disposal
5-1B-2: Containers
5-1B-3: Collection Of Garbage And Refuse
5-1B-4: Hauling And Dumping Garbage And Refuse
5-1B-5: Rates, Classifications And Fees; Rules And Regulations
5-1B-6: Prohibited Acts
5-1B-1: PREPARATION FOR COLLECTION OR DISPOSAL:
   A.   Manner Of Preparation: All refuse shall be prepared for collection or
disposed of as follows:
      1.   Garbage 1 : The customer shall furnish containers for the
accumulation, storage and collection of all garbage. Such containers shall be
tightly covered and be of rust resistant metal or plastic and shall have
handles on the outside. The maximum capacity of each container shall not exceed
thirty (30)  gallons and when loaded for collection shall not exceed fifty (50)
pounds in weight. Such containers shall be kept in good repair and in a
sanitary condition. Containers found to be no longer serviceable through
disrepair or maintained in an unsanitary condition may be condemned by the town
for further use. Legal notice of such condemnation shall consist of a label or
tag affixed to the container. Receptacles not placed in a satisfactory
condition or replaced within ten (10) days of said notice may be removed and
destroyed by the town. Nothing in this subsection A1 shall prevent the town
council from electing to furnish containers to customers for the accumulation,
storage and collection of all garbage. The cost of providing and maintaining
such containers shall be included in the monthly charges for routine collection
and disposal of garbage, and such containers shall be the property of the town.
      2.   Trash: Trash shall be placed in containers or tied in bundles by the
customer and set out for collection adjacent to containers referred to in
subsection A1 of this section. Trash may be placed in such containers or in
boxes not to exceed three feet (3') square and four feet (4') deep. In any
event, the weight of the loaded containers or bundle shall not exceed fifty
(50) pounds.
      3.   Brush: Brush shall be cut into lengths not to exceed four feet (4')
and securely tied in bundles not to exceed eighteen inches (18") in diameter.
In any event, such bundles shall not exceed fifty (50) pounds in weight.
Customers not capable of complying with these limits may make advance
arrangements with the director of public works for customized, special
collection and disposal services.
      4.   Appliances, Vehicles And Similar Large Items: Upon special request,
the town or collectors authorized by the town will collect discarded appliances
and other large items from dwelling premises that two (2) persons can readily
lift into a truck. The customer shall remove or cause to be removed all other
appliances, vehicles or equipment classed as refuse from his premises or the
public right of way.
      5.   Building Materials: All owners, contractors and builders of
structures shall, upon the completion of any structure, gather up and haul
away, at their sole cost and expense, all refuse of every nature, description
or kind, which has resulted from the building of such structure, including all
lumber scraps, shingles, plaster, brick, stone, concrete and other building
material, and shall place the lot and all nearby premises utilized in such
construction in a sightly condition. Residential customers may dispose of small
amounts of building materials from time to time, provided the materials are
placed in a container as described above and the materials contain no concrete,
masonry or soil.
      6.   Byproducts: Any commercial or manufacturing establishment which, by
the nature of its operations, creates an unusual amount of byproduct refuse may
be required by the town to dispose of its own wastes as opposed to having the
town provide the service.
      7.   Dangerous Waste: The town reserves the right to deny service for
certain dangerous wastes and to require the customer to properly dispose of
said wastes by other means.
      8.   Soil And Concrete: Waste soil, concrete, masonry blocks, sod and
rocks shall be disposed of by the owner, tenant or occupant of the premises.
      9.   Boxes: Corrugated, cardboard or paper boxes must be mashed or cut
and securely tied in bundles not to exceed four feet (4') in length, three feet
(3') in width and two feet (2') in height. In any event, such bundles shall not
exceed fifty (50) pounds in weight. Customers not capable of complying with
these limits may make advance arrangements with the director of public works
for customized, special collection and disposal services.
   B.   Fees For Special Services And Handling: Since the refuse referred to in
subsections A2, A3, A4 and A8 of this section requires special service and
handling, the council, by resolution, may establish charges and fees for such
service in amounts calculated to cover the cost in providing any such services,
and such charges may be in addition to any other charges. (1988 Code § 9-2-1)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-1B-2 of this article.
5-1B-2: CONTAINERS 1 :
   A.   Location And Hours For Pick Up:
      1.   Streets: If a street is used as the refuse collection route, the
container shall be placed: a) behind the sidewalk on the residential lot side
of the sidewalk, thereby maintaining the sidewalk and other public rights of
way free and clear of the container; or b) if there is no improved sidewalk,
immediately behind the pavement edge on the residential lot side of the
pavement.
      2.   Alleys: If an alley is used as the refuse collection route, all
refuse prepared for collection shall be placed at the rear of the lot, at the
edge of the alley and in an easily accessible manner, provided such alley
exists and is used as a refuse collection route.
      3.   Blocking Public Ways Prohibited: All containers shall be so located
as to not block the alley, sidewalk or gutter, or otherwise be a hazard to
pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
      4.   Hours: When necessary to set containers at locations other than the
alley, they may be set out after six o'clock (6:00) P.M. of the day preceding
regular collection and shall be removed from the curb by six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. of the day after collection. (Ord. 2-2001, 5-15-2001)
   B.   Lids And Covers To Be Secure: The lids or covers of all containers
shall at all times be kept secure so that flies and other insects may not have
access to the contents and shall only be removed while the containers and
receptacles are being filled, emptied or cleaned. (1988 Code § 9-2-3)
   C.   Prohibited Use Of Certain Containers: It is unlawful for any person to
deposit, or cause to be deposited, any refuse in any container that he does not
own or is not entitled to use as a tenant. (1988 Code § 9-2-4)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 5-1B-1A1 of this article.
5-1B-3: COLLECTION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE:
   A.   Collection Agency: The town, or other collectors authorized by the
town, shall collect all refuse within the town. No person, except as provided
in this chapter, shall collect or gather refuse within the town. If a contract
for garbage collection is executed by the town, collection shall be performed
pursuant to that contract. (1988 Code § 9-1-2)
   B.   Hours Of Collection: The hours of collection of refuse shall be
designated by the council. (1988 Code § 9-1-3)
5-1B-4: HAULING AND DUMPING GARBAGE AND REFUSE:
   A.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permit Required: It is unlawful for any person to haul or cause to
be hauled any refuse on or along any public street, avenue or alley in the
town, except after obtaining a permit to haul garbage. It is unlawful for an
individual to haul his own garbage, trash and refuse without a permit from the
town. (1988 Code § 9-3-1; amd. 2004 Code)
      2.   Permit Fee, Issuance And Termination: Upon payment of a permit fee,
which permit is to expire on June 30 of each year, the amount of said fee to be
determined at the sole discretion of the council, any person not desiring to
have his garbage and trash collected and removed by the town shall be given a
permit to haul his garage, trash and refuse to the town dump, county dump or
such other dump as may be approved by the council, subject to all sanitary
provisions in this chapter.
      3.   Revocation Of Permit; Reissuance: The permit may be revoked after
conviction of the person for violation of this chapter but shall be reissued
upon correction of the violation and application for a new permit and the
payment of the fee therefor.
      4.   Restrictions On Eligibility For Permit: The right to obtain a permit
is not available to residential users and is only available to commercial users
under terms and conditions established by the town by resolution. (1988 Code §
9-3-1)
   B.   Spillproof Vehicles And Receptacles: It is unlawful for any person to
haul or cause to be hauled on or along any public street in the town any
garbage, unless such garbage is contained in strong, watertight vehicles or
vehicles with watertight receptacles, constructed to prevent any such garbage
from falling, leaking or spilling and any odor from escaping. (1988 Code § 9-3-
2)
   C.   Spilled Refuse: Any person hauling any refuse along the streets of the
town shall immediately replace any refuse which may fall upon any street into
the conveyance used for such hauling. (1988 Code § 9-3-3)
5-1B-5: RATES, CLASSIFICATIONS AND FEES 1 ; RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Established: The council shall from time to time fix the rates,
classifications and permit fees for garbage and trash collection within the
town and shall make such other rules and regulations as may be necessary to
properly administer and enforce this chapter. (1988 Code § 9-1-4)
   B.   Payment Of Fees Mandatory; Exceptions: The occupants, owners or
landlords of every occupied building or lot in the town who receive water
services from the town shall pay, in addition for such service, a fee for
refuse collection and disposal, unless such person has obtained a permit to
haul his own garbage or refuse pursuant to this chapter or has contracted with
a private hauler licensed by the town to conduct the service of collection and
disposal of such refuse or garbage.
   C.   Liability For Fees And Charges: The owners, or their agents, of every
building or stall, group of buildings or stalls or multiple occupancies, or the
person or firm in whose name the water service is recorded and to whom bills
for such service are rendered shall be responsible for the payment of all fees
and charges for refuse collection and disposal services provided to those
places which partake or benefit directly from such water service. (1988 Code §
9-1-5)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 8-3-9 of this code for billing procedures.
5-1B-6: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Unlawful Disposal Of Garbage And Refuse: It is unlawful for any person
to place or cause to be placed any refuse upon any public or private property
within the town, except as specifically permitted in this chapter. (1988 Code §
9-3-4)
   B.   Scavenging Garbage Bins: It shall be unlawful for any person to
scavenge in garbage bins within the town limits. (1988 Code § 10-1-7)
ARTICLE C.  LITTER AND NUISANCES
SECTION:
5-1C-1: Nuisances Prohibited; Enumeration
5-1C-2: Litter Free Maintenance Of Private Property
5-1C-3: Notice Of Abatement
5-1C-4: Appeal Of Abatement
5-1C-5: Removal Of Litter Or Nuisance By Town
5-1C-6: Removal Costs; Lien Provisions
5-1C-7: Littering Violations A Misdemeanor; Liability For Removal Costs
5-1C-8: Feeding Pigeons And Other Birds Prohibited
5-1C-1: NUISANCES PROHIBITED; ENUMERATION:
It shall be unlawful for any business, corporation, firm, group, individual or
partnership to engage in any activity which results in a nuisance, or fail to
act to prevent a condition which causes, creates or perpetuates a nuisance. In
addition to other items described in section
5-1A-1 of this chapter, the following are hereby specifically declared
nuisances:
   A.   Vegetation Growing Along Public Ways 1 : Any material growing along a
public or private right of way, access drive, sidewalk, fire lane or utility
easement which, by reason of its size, manner, growth or location, constitutes
an obstruction, impairs visibility or otherwise endangers any person,
improvement or structure 2 .
   B.   Overhanging, Protruding Vegetation 3 : All vegetation overhanging
alleyways 4  lower than thirteen feet six inches (13'6") or protruding more
than six feet (6') against the alleyway. All said vegetation must be trimmed to
provide said thirteen foot six inch (13'6") minimum height clearance and said
minimum six foot (6') protrusion.
   C.   Obstructing Public Ways And Property And Watercourses:
      1.   Any material, structure, fabrication or vehicle placed on, in or
near any public or private right of way, sidewalk, access drive, fire lane or
easement which prohibits the free and unimpeded use thereof. This shall
include, but shall not be limited to, basketball hoops or other recreational
structures built across sidewalks or in rights of way.
      2.   Any condition that obstructs or renders dangerous the use or passage
of any park, stream, watercourse, sidewalk, parkway, square, alley, street,
highway, or easement. No person shall create or maintain such a condition.
(Ord. 2-2001, 5-15-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-1-4 of this code.
2 2. See also subsection 8-1-1A of this code.
3 3. See also section
  8-1-4 of this code.
4 4. See also subsection 8-1-1B of this code.
5-1C-2: LITTER FREE MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   Responsible parties shall keep the sidewalks and landscaped areas
surrounding the premises free of litter, garbage, junk, trash or debris.
   B.   The responsible parties shall at all times maintain the premises free
of litter, garbage, junk, trash or debris. This subsection does not prohibit
the storage of litter, garbage or debris in containers for collection, or
within any building when not in violation of any health, fire, building or
other regulation, order, ordinance or statute.
   C.   All land and public rights of way shall be kept free of overgrown
vegetation that interferes with or obstructs or renders dangerous the free
passage or use of sidewalks, roadways, streets, public rights of way or
easements, or obstructs or blocks the vision of drivers and their ability to
observe traffic control devices or signs.
   D.   Responsible parties shall be responsible for maintaining the
landscaping upon their property. Responsible parties shall not allow overgrown
vegetation to impede the sidewalks or rights of way and shall keep sidewalks
and rights of way clear of landscaping or debris. (Ord. 2-2001, 5-15-2001)
5-1C-3: NOTICE OF ABATEMENT:
If voluntary compliance cannot be secured to remove litter or abate a nuisance,
or if the person upon whom the notice to appear and complaint was served fails
to appear before a judge or magistrate as promised, or in the event of
inability to prosecute violators by reason of failure to secure jurisdiction
over those persons, the town may compel abatement in the following manner:
   A.   Service Of Notice: If the town manager or his designee has deemed it
necessary to compel abatement by the town, he shall serve a written notice of
the intent to compel abatement upon the responsible party by certified or
registered mail at the last known address of said person or at the last address
to which the tax bill for the premises was mailed. If the responsible person
does not reside on such property, a duplicate notice shall also be sent to him
at his last known address.
   B.   Contents: The notice of intent shall include a legal description of the
premises, a restatement of the violations known to exist, an estimate of the
cost of abatement, including a ten percent (10%) charge for additional
inspection services and administrative costs, and the notice of the right to
appeal. (Ord. 2-2001, 5-15-2001)
5-1C-4: APPEAL OF ABATEMENT:
   A.   Time For Appeal: Within ten (10) working days from receipt of the
notice of intent to compel abatement, the responsible party for the premises
may appeal in writing to the town council from the findings of the town manager
or his designee.
   B.   Contents Of Appeal: The appeal shall clearly show the legal description
of the property, the date the notice was issued, the date the notice was
received, the nature of the violations and the reasons for the appeal.
   C.   Hearing And Decisions: The town council shall set a date, time and
place for a hearing before the council and shall notify the responsible party
of the hearing date. The town council may either affirm or reverse the decision
of the town manager or his designee or modify the scope of the work as outlined
in the notice. The decision of the town council shall be final. (Ord. 2-2001,
5-15-2001)
5-1C-5: REMOVAL OF LITTER OR NUISANCE BY TOWN:
If no appeal to the town council is taken, or if the town council affirms the
findings of the town manager or his designee, then the town shall commence
abatement procedures as soon as is practical after expiration of the allotted
appeal time on the findings of the town council, if appeal is taken. In doing
so, the town may use employees or may contract for the required services, or
use any other methods to secure compliance in an expeditious and timely manner.
(Ord. 2-2001, 5-15-2001)
5-1C-6: REMOVAL COSTS; LIEN PROVISIONS:
   A.   Statement Of Costs:
      1.   Costs Itemized; Issuance Of Statement: The town shall keep or cause
to be kept an itemized account of the expenses involved in abating the
violation. Upon completion of the abatement process, the town shall request the
accounting division to bill the responsible party for the expenses. A statement
showing the expense of the abatement, including the costs of additional
inspections and administrative costs, together with the notice of the time and
place when the statement will be submitted to the town council for approval and
confirmation, at which time the town council shall consider objections or
protest to the costs of the work, shall be included within the billing
statement. (Ord. 2-2001, 5-15-2001; amd. 2004 Code)
      2.   Hearing And Decisions: At the time fixed for the hearing on the
statement of expense, the town council shall consider the statement and any
protest or objections raised. The town council may reverse, correct or modify
the statement as it considers just and thereafter shall confirm the statement
by motion or resolution. The decision of the town council is final and binding
on all parties.
   B.   Collection Of Costs: After confirmation of the statement by the town
council, the town clerk shall forward the statement to the appropriate
personnel, who shall collect the amount owing to the town.
   C.   Costs A Lien: If the property owner does not pay the expense of abating
the violation within thirty (30) days after receipt of the statement, the costs
shall become a lien against the real property upon which the violation was
abated. The assessment shall continue until it is paid, together with interest
at the rate of ten percent (10%) per year computed from the day the
confirmation of the statement until paid. The lien may be collected at the same
time and in the same manner as ordinary taxes are collected, and shall be
subject to the same penalties and the same procedure and sale in case of
delinquency as provided for ordinary taxes. All acts applicable to levy,
collection and enforcement of the municipal taxes shall apply to this lien.
(Ord. 2-2001, 5-15-2001)
5-1C-7: LITTERING VIOLATIONS A MISDEMEANOR; LIABILITY FOR REMOVAL COSTS:
Any person, firm or corporation littering upon any public or private property
not owned or under the control of said person, firm or corporation shall be
guilty of a class one misdemeanor and, in addition to any fine which may be
imposed for violation of this section, shall be liable for all costs which may
be assessed for the removal of said litter. (1988 Code § 9-4-2)
5-1C-8: FEEDING PIGEONS AND OTHER BIRDS PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to feed, or cause to be fed,
pigeons on any public property, or on any property open to the public.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to feed, or cause to be fed, any
wild birds or pigeons on private property where such feeding of birds creates a
nuisance condition. For the purpose of this section, a nuisance condition shall
include, but not be limited to, any unsanitary condition, or excessive noise,
or property damage, caused by the feeding of such birds. (Ord. 02-2016, 5-17-
2016; amd. Ord. 03-2020, 12-1-2020)
CHAPTER 2
NOISE CONTROL 1
SECTION:
5-2-1: Nuisance Declared
5-2-2: Loudspeakers And Sound Amplifiers Restricted
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 9-240, subsection B15.
5-2-1: NUISANCE DECLARED:
It is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and it is unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation owning or operating or in control of any
restaurant, hotel, dance hall, show, store or any place of public amusement,
entertainment or accommodation, to play or permit to be played any music or
musical instrument or instruments, whether played by individuals, orchestra,
radio, phonograph, music box or other mechanical device or means, in such a
loud or unusual manner as to be offensive to the senses, or so as to disturb
the slumber, peace and quiet, or otherwise interfere with or annoy the
comfortable enjoyment of life or property of any person and is no less a
nuisance because the extent of the annoyance inflicted is unequal. (1988 Code §
10-1-6)
5-2-2: LOUDSPEAKERS AND SOUND AMPLIFIERS RESTRICTED:
It is unlawful to play, operate, or use any device known as a sound truck,
loudspeaker or sound amplifier, radio or phonograph with loudspeaker or sound
amplifier or any instrument of any kind or character which emits loud and
raucous noises or is attached to and upon any vehicle, unless such person in
charge of such vehicle shall have first applied to and received permission from
the chief of police to operate any such vehicle so equipped. (1988 Code § 10-1-
6)
CHAPTER 3
FOOD AND BEVERAGES
SECTION:
5-3-1: State Regulations Adopted
5-3-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The town hereby adopts by reference in their entirety article 1, food and
drink, of chapter 8, environmental sanitation in title 9, health services, of
the Arizona official compilation of administrative rules and regulations. The
required number of copies have been filed in the office of the clerk and are
available in said office for public use and inspection. (1988 Code § 2-7-4)
CHAPTER 4
RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA
5-4-1: Purpose
5-4-2: Definitions
5-4-3: Marijuana Prohibited On Public Property
5-4-4: Marijuana Establishment Prohibited; Dual Licensee Exception
5-4-5: Marijuana Testing Facility Prohibited
5-4-6: Marijuana At A Primary Residence For Personal Use
5-4-7: Violations; Enforcement; Penalties
5-4-1: PURPOSE:
This Chapter is adopted to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the
community. Except as allowed by law for personal or private use, or as
permitted under the Arizona Medical Marijuana Act, the Town prohibits the
consumption, cultivation, extraction, manufacturing, processing, sale or
distribution, of marijuana or marijuana products in the Town. Nothing in this
Chapter is intended to promote or condone the consumption, cultivation,
extraction, manufacturing, processing, sale or distribution of marijuana or
marijuana products in violation of any applicable law.  (Ord. 02-2020, 10-20-
2020)
5-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
The below words and phrases, wherever used in this Chapter, shall be construed
as defined in this section unless, clearly from the context, a different
meaning is intended.  Words used in the present tense include the future tense,
words in the plural number include the singular number, and words in the
singular number include the plural number.
CHEMICAL       Means the process of removing a particular component of a mixture from others
EXTRACTION:    present, including removing resinous tetrahydrocannabinol from marijuana.
CHEMICAL       Means production of a new particular molecule by adding to, subtracting from, or
SYNTHESIS:     changing the structure of a precursor molecule.
CONSUME,       Means the act of ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing marijuana into the
CONSUMING, and human body.
CONSUMPTION:
CONSUMER:      Means an individual who is at least twenty-one (21) years of age and who
               purchases marijuana or marijuana products.
CULTIVATE and  Means to propagate, breed, grow, prepare, and package marijuana.
CULTIVATION:
DEPARTMENT:    Means the State of Arizona Department of Health Services or its successor
               agency.
DUAL LICENSEE: Means an entity that holds both a nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary
               registration and a marijuana establishment license.
EXTRACT and    Means the process of extracting or separating resin from marijuana to produce or
EXTRACTION:    process any form of marijuana concentrates using water, lipids, gases, solvents,
               or other chemicals or chemical processes.
MANUFACTURE
and            Means to compound, blend, extract, infuse or otherwise make or prepare a
MANUFACTURING  marijuana product.
:
               1.   Means all parts of the plant of the genus cannabis, whether growing or not,
               as well as the seeds from the plant, the resin extracted from any part of the
               plant, and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation
               of the plant or its seeds or resin.
MARIJUANA:     2.   Includes cannabis as defined in A.R.S. § 13-3401.
               3.   Does not include industrial hemp, the fiber produced from the stalks of the
               plant of the genus cannabis, oil or cake made from the seeds of the plant,
               sterilized seeds of the plant that are incapable of germination, or the weight
               of any other ingredient combined with marijuana to prepare topical or oral
               administrations, food, drink or other products.
               1.   Means resin extracted from any part of a plant of the genus cannabis and
               every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of that
MARIJUANA      resin or tetrahydrocannabinol.
CONCENTRATE:   2.   Does not include industrial hemp or the weight of any other ingredient
               combined with cannabis to prepare topical or oral administrations, food, drink,
               or other products.
               Means an entity licensed by the Department to operate all of the following:
               1.   A single retail location at which the licensee may sell marijuana and
               marijuana products to consumers, cultivate marijuana and manufacture marijuana
               products.
MARIJUANA      2.   A single off-site cultivation location at which the licensee may cultivate
ESTABLISHMENT: marijuana, process marijuana and manufacture marijuana products, but from which
               marijuana and marijuana products may not be transferred or sold to consumers.
               3.   A single off-site location at which the licensee may manufacture marijuana
               products and package and store marijuana and marijuana products, but from which
               marijuana and marijuana products may not be transferred or sold to consumers.
MARIJUANA      Means marijuana concentrate and products that are composed of marijuana and
PRODUCTS:      other ingredients and that are intended for use or consumption, including edible
               products, ointments, and tinctures.
MARIJUANA      Means the Department or another entity that is licensed by the Department to
TESTING        analyze the potency of marijuana and test marijuana for harmful contaminants.
FACILITY:
NONPROFIT
MEDICAL        Means a non-profit entity as defined in A.R.S. § 36-2801(12).
MARIJUANA
DISPENSARY:
OPEN SPACE:    Means a public park, public sidewalk, public walkway, public trail, preserve, or
               public pedestrian thoroughfare.
PERSON:        Means an individual, partnership, corporation, association, or any other entity
               of whatever kind or nature.
PROCESS AND    Means to harvest, dry, cure, trim or separate parts of the marijuana plant.
PROCESSING:
PUBLIC PLACE:  Has the same meaning prescribed in the Smoke-Free-Arizona Act, A.R.S. § 36-
               601.01.
SMOKE:         Means to inhale, exhale, burn, carry or possess any lighted marijuana or lighted
               marijuana products, whether natural or synthetic.  (Ord. 02-2020, 10-20-2020)
 
5-4-3: MARIJUANA PROHIBITED ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   The consumption, cultivation, extraction, manufacture, processing, sale
or distribution of marijuana or marijuana products is prohibited on property
that is occupied, owned, controlled, or operated by the Town.
   B.   It is unlawful for an individual to smoke marijuana or consume
marijuana products on property that is occupied, owned, controlled, or operated
by the Town.
   C.   It is unlawful for an individual to smoke marijuana or consume
marijuana products in an open space in the Town.
   D.   It is unlawful for an individual to smoke marijuana or consume
marijuana products in a public place in the Town.  (Ord. 02-2020, 10-20-2020)
5-4-4: MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENT PROHIBITED; DUAL LICENSEE EXCEPTION:
   A.   To the fullest extent allowable by law, the operation of a marijuana
establishment is prohibited in the Town, except where authorized for a dual
licensee who:
      1.   Operates both a nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary and marijuana
establishment cooperatively in a shared location; and
      2.   Has not forfeited or terminated the nonprofit medical marijuana
dispensary registration from the Department.  (Ord. 02-2020, 10-20-2020)
5-4-5: MARIJUANA TESTING FACILITY PROHIBITED:
To the fullest extent allowable by law, the operation of a marijuana testing
facility is prohibited in the Town.  (Ord. 02-2020, 10-20-2020)
5-4-6: MARIJUANA AT A PRIMARY RESIDENCE FOR PERSONAL USE:
   A.   To the fullest extent allowable by law, marijuana consumption,
cultivation, extraction, manufacture, and processing is permitted in an
individual's primary residence for personal use subject to the following
conditions and limitations:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any individual who is at least twenty-one
(21) years of age to possess, transport, cultivate, or process more than six
(6) marijuana plants.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for two (2) or more individuals who are at
least twenty-one (21) year of age to possess, transport, cultivate, or process
more than twelve (12) marijuana plants.
      3.   Except as provided by A.R.S. § 36-2801 et al. and this section, it
shall be unlawful for an individual to otherwise consume, cultivate, extract,
manufacture, possess, or process marijuana in a residence or accessory building
within the Town limits.
      4.   Marijuana or marijuana products shall not be cultivated, extracted,
manufactured, or processed outdoors.
      5.   The cultivation, extraction, manufacture, and processing of
marijuana shall be limited to a closet, room, greenhouse, or other enclosed
area within the primary residence or an accessory building on the property with
a permanent foundation that is equipped with a lock or other security device
that prevents access by minors.
      6.   Individuals shall not extract, manufacture, or process marijuana by
chemical extraction or chemical synthesis, excluding manual or mechanical
means.
      7.   The indoor area used for cultivation, extraction, manufacturing, or
processing shall include a ventilation and filtration system designed to ensure
that odors from the cultivation extraction, manufacturing, or processing are
not detectable beyond the property line of a parcel containing a single
dwelling unit, or beyond the boundaries of a single dwelling unit in multiple
residence dwellings, condominiums, apartments, or similar closely built
dwelling unit arrangements, and designed to prevent mold and moisture and
otherwise protect the health and safety of persons residing in the residence or
unit. This shall include, at a minimum, a system meeting the requirements of
the current, adopted edition of the International Residential Code.
      8.   Marijuana may only be cultivated, extracted, manufactured, or
processed as an accessory use at the primary residence of the person conducting
such activity or in an accessory building on the property with a permanent
foundation, and only for such person's own use, or by a primary caregiver on
behalf of a patient.
      9.   It is unlawful to use any grow lighting system for the indoor
cultivation of marijuana other than light-emitting diodes (LEDs), compact
fluorescent lamps (CFLs) or fluorescent lighting. All high-intensity discharge
(HID) lighting, including, but not limited, to mercury-vapor lamps, metal-
halide (MH) lamps, ceramic MH lamps, sodium-vapor lamps, high-pressure sodium
(HPS) lamps and xenon short-arc lamps, are prohibited.
      10.   Cultivation, extraction, manufacturing, and processing shall take
place in an area where the marijuana plants or products are not visible from
public view without using binoculars, aircraft, or other optical aids.  (Ord.
02-2020, 10-20-2020)
5-4-7: VIOLATIONS; ENFORCEMENT; PENALTIES:
   A.   It is a violation of this Chapter for a person to consume, cultivate,
extract, manufacture, or process marijuana or marijuana products if the person
fails to meet all the requirements in this Chapter or state law, including the
Department's rules.
   B.   Each day any violation of any provision of this Chapter shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense.
   C.   Except as otherwise provided in A.R.S. § 36-2853, any violation of this
Chapter is punishable by a misdemeanor pursuant to Section
1-4-1 of this code.
   D.   Violations of this Chapter are in addition to any other violation
enumerated within the Town ordinances or the Town Code and in no way limits the
penalties, actions or abatement procedures which may be taken by the Town for
any violation of this Chapter, which is also a violation of any other ordinance
or Code provision of the Town or federal or state law.  Conviction and
punishment of judgment and civil sanction against any person under this Chapter
shall not relieve such person from the responsibility of correcting prohibited
conditions, or removing prohibited structures or improvements, and shall not
prevent the enforced correction or removal thereof.
   E.   The remedies provided in this Chapter shall be cumulative and in
addition to any other federal, state, or local remedy, which may be available.
Nothing contained herein shall be construed to preclude prosecution under any
other applicable statute, ordinance, rule, order, or regulation.  (Ord. 02-
2020, 10-20-2020)
TITLE 6
POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT 1
SECTION:
6-1-1: Department Created; Composition; Appointment Of Chief
6-1-2: Compensation Of Officers
6-1-3: Rules And Regulations
6-1-4: Duties Of Department
6-1-5: Powers And Duties Of Chief
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 9-240, subsection B12.
6-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED; COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT OF CHIEF:
There is hereby created a police department for the town which shall consist of
a chief of police and as many police officers as may from time to time be
deemed necessary by the council for the safety and good order of the town. The
chief of police shall be appointed by the council and shall serve at the
pleasure of the council. (1988 Code §§ 4-1-1, 4-1-2; amd. 2004 Code)
6-1-2: COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS:
The chief of police and the police officers of the town shall be compensated as
determined by the council. The chief of police shall not receive any
perquisites, commissions or compensation for his services as chief of police,
except as the council may prescribe. (1988 Code § 4-1-3; amd. 2004 Code)
6-1-3: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The police department shall be operated and managed in accordance with such
departmental rules and regulations as may from time to time be adopted by the
council. (1988 Code § 4-1-4)
6-1-4: DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT:
It is the duty of the police department, under the direction of the chief of
police, to:
   A.   Enforce this code and the statutes of the state within jurisdictional
limits as conferred by law and arrest and charge the violators thereof.
   B.   Take charge of all those who are sentenced to labor on the streets or
public works of the town and see that orders and sentences with reference to
such are fully executed and complied with. (1988 Code § 4-1-5)
   C.   Deliver any persons who may be confined in jail upon conviction of a
crime committed under the jurisdiction of the magistrate's court to any
authorized officer of the town who shall at any time demand such prisoners. Any
such authorized person so demanding and receiving such prisoners shall work
such prisoners on the streets or alleys of the town or on any and all
authorized work as may be determined by the council or town manager. (1988 Code
§ 4-1-5; amd. 2004 Code)
   D.   Render such account of the police department, its duties and receipts
as may be required by the council, and keep records of the office open to
inspection by the council at any time, except those records as may be exempted
by state or federal law.
   E.   Enforce the traffic regulations of the town as specified in title 7 of
this code and enforce the traffic laws of the state within the limits of the
town.
   F.   Inspect and ascertain the condition of traffic control devices which
have been erected within the town on the authority of the council and notify
the council of any defects found therein.
   G.   Perform such additional duties as may be required by the council. (1988
Code § 4-1-5)
6-1-5: POWERS AND DUTIES OF CHIEF:
All personnel of the police department and all matters pertaining to the
administration of the department shall be placed under the control and
supervision of the chief of police, however, all fiscal matters pertaining to
the department shall be coordinated with the town manager. (1988 Code § 3-2-1)
CHAPTER 2
ALARM SYSTEMS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Purpose; Application Of Provisions
6-2-2: Findings
6-2-3: Definitions
6-2-4: Alarm Businesses
6-2-5: Duties Of Subscriber/User
6-2-6: False Alarms
6-2-7: Equipment
6-2-8: Responses To Alarms
6-2-9: Administration And Enforcement
6-2-10: Violation; Penalty
6-2-1: PURPOSE; APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
This chapter is intended to regulate the activities of those persons who
purchase, rent or use, and those persons who own or conduct the business of
selling, renting, maintaining or monitoring alarm systems, devices or services
within the town, except for those systems maintained or monitored by the town
of Parker for the county of La Paz properties. It is further intended to
encourage the improvement in reliability of these systems, devices and
services, and to ensure that police department personnel will not be unduly
diverted from responding to actual criminal activity as a result of responding
to false alarms. This chapter specifically encompasses "burglar alarms",
"robbery alarms", and "medical alarms", both audible and inaudible (silent).
(1988 Code § 4-2-1)
6-2-2: FINDINGS:
The common council finds:
   A.   The vast majority of burglary, robbery and medical alarms to which the
Parker police department responds are false. Such false alarms result in an
enormous waste of manpower. There is such a large percentage of false alarms as
may lull the police officers into a sense of false security. If responding to
an alarm, they will probably assume it is a false alarm and may be wounded or
killed by a criminal at the location.
   B.   The danger to citizens, through emergency police responses created by
false alarms, is unnecessary and hazardous.
   C.   The unnecessary waste of town funds/tax dollars through responses to
false alarms must be eliminated.
   D.   False alarms of any type have created conditions causing danger and
annoyance to the general public. (1988 Code § 4-2-2)
6-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
ACT OF GOD: An unusual, extraordinary, sudden and unexpected manifestation of
the forces of nature which cannot be prevented by reasonable human care, skill
or foresight.
ALARM AGENT: Any person who is employed by an alarm business, either directly
or indirectly, whose duties include any of the following: Maintaining,
servicing, or repairing any alarm or alarm system in or on any building,
vehicle or premises. Any person whose duties consist solely of resetting an
alarm following activation shall not be an "alarm agent".
ALARM BUSINESS: Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity who
(which) owns or conducts the business of selling, leasing, renting, maintaining
or monitoring alarm systems, devices or services, with the exception of the
town of Parker or county of La Paz.
ALARM OR ALARM SYSTEM: Any electrical instrument or other device which, as one
of its purposes, is used to protect buildings, vehicles or premises from
criminal acts or unauthorized entry through emission or transmission of a sound
or signal.
ALARM SUBSCRIBER: Any person, firm, partnership, corporation, or business who
(which) leases or rents an audible alarm system or device whether or not that
system is monitored by the same alarm business or other entity.
ALARM USER: Any person using an alarm system at his place of business or
residence.
AUDIBLE ALARM: A device designed for the detection of an unauthorized entry on
premises and which, when activated, generates an audible sound on the premises.
FALSE ALARMS: Any activation of an alarm not caused by or as a result of a
criminal act or unauthorized entry, except for activation for testing purposes
when the police department has been given advance notice of such testing, or
activation caused by the police or fire department.
MONITORED ALARM: A device designed for the detection of an unauthorized entry
on premises and which, when activated, generates an inaudible (silent) signal
to a monitoring station. A "monitored alarm" may also generate an audible sound
on the premises.
NUISANCE ALARM: Any alarm system that activates excessive false alarms not
generated by violent conditions of nature.
PROPRIETOR ALARM: Any alarm or alarm system which is not leased or rented from,
or owned or maintained under contract by an alarm business. (1988 Code § 4-2-3)
6-2-4: ALARM BUSINESSES:
   A.   Duties:
      1.   The duties of an alarm business shall be as follows:
         a.   To install and be available to maintain the alarm or alarm system
in good working order and to take reasonable measures to prevent the occurrence
of false alarms.
         b.   To instruct each of its alarm subscribers and/or the principal
occupants of the buildings or premises protected by an alarm system in the
proper use and operation of the system. Such instruction will specifically
include all necessary instructions in turning the alarm on and off and in
avoiding false alarms.
         c.   To provide each purchaser and subscriber with a copy of the
pertinent provisions of this chapter relating to alarm subscriber duties, false
alarm assessments and appeal procedures.
         d.   To maintain records as to each of the alarm systems, devices and
services which should include the name of the owner or occupant of the
premises, the name and telephone number of the owner or occupant of the
premises, the name and telephone number of the customer/subscriber, a primary
person and at least one alternate responsible for responding to the premises
when the alarm is activated, and information concerning whether the alarm
system includes an audible alarm.
      2.   Alarm businesses which do not monitor, maintain, service or install
alarms or alarm systems within the town shall not be subject to subsections A1a
through A1d of this section, but shall be responsible for instructing each
person who purchases an alarm or alarm system in the proper use and operation
of the alarm. Such instruction will specifically include all necessary
instructions in turning off said alarm and in avoiding false alarms. (1988 Code
§ 4-2-5)
   B.   License Required; Conditions: No person shall engage in, conduct,
manage or carry on an alarm business without first applying for and receiving a
town business license, and it shall be unlawful for any person to engage in,
conduct or carry on an alarm business or represent himself to be or to operate
as an alarm agent without first applying for and receiving a license therefor
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (1988 Code §§ 4-2-5, 4-2-7)
   C.   Tangible Business: No license shall be issued to an alarm business
which does not maintain a physical location from which the business is
conducted.
   D.   Renewal Of License: The license must be renewed annually. (1988 Code §
4-2-5)
   E.   Suspension Or Revocation Of License; Appeal:
      1.   Grounds For Suspension Or Revocation: The town clerk may suspend or
revoke an alarm business or alarm agent's license on any of the following
grounds:
         a.   Failure of the permittee to comply with the requirements of this
chapter.
         b.   Conviction of the licensee or any of its officers of a felony.
         c.   When the licensee or any of his officers, employees or agents has
knowingly made any false, misleading, or fraudulent statements of a material
fact in any report as required pursuant to this chapter.
      2.   Appeal: The suspension or revocation may be appealed to the common
council of the town within ten (10) working days of the notice of suspension or
revocation. (1988 Code § 4-2-6)
6-2-5: DUTIES OF SUBSCRIBER/USER:
The duties of an alarm subscriber/user shall be as follows:
   A.   To instruct all personnel who are authorized to place the system or
device into operation in the appropriate method of operation.
   B.   To inform personnel who are authorized to place the alarm system into
operation of the provisions of this chapter, emphasizing the importance of
avoiding false alarms. A copy of this chapter shall be maintained on the
premises and be made available to persons who are licensed/authorized to place
an alarm system into operation. (1988 Code § 4-2-10)
6-2-6: FALSE ALARMS:
   A.   Intentional False Alarms Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to
cause or permit to be caused the activation of an alarm system knowing the
transmitted signal to be false or, by spoken word or otherwise, information
indicating an alarm which is false. (1988 Code § 4-2-8)
   B.   Repeated False Alarms; Nuisance Declared: The police chief may
designate an alarm system at a specific location as a nuisance if the alarm
system activates excessive false alarms. It is determined that four (4) false
burglary alarms within any six (6) consecutive calendar month period, or four
(4) false robbery alarms within any six (6) consecutive calendar month period,
or four (4) false medical alert calls within any six (6) consecutive calendar
month period is excessive and thereby constitutes a public nuisance. False
alarms generated by violent conditions of nature, acts of God, and not the
result of the negligence of the alarm user, his employees, or alarm agents
shall not be considered as nuisance alarms. (1988 Code § 4-2-9)
   C.   Warning Notice: When any alarm system generates three (3) false alarms
within a consecutive one hundred eighty (180) day period, the police department
shall send a warning notice to both the alarm subscriber and alarm business or
the proprietor alarm owner that, upon the fourth subsequent false alarm within
said period, the notified parties will be subject to the sanctions as provided
herein. (1988 Code § 4-2-11)
   D.   Police Review Of False Alarms:
      1.   Any alarm system which has four (4) or more false alarms within a
six (6) consecutive calendar month period shall be subject to assessment as
provided herein.
      2.   If the police department records four (4) or more false alarms
within a six (6) consecutive calendar month period:
         a.   The police department shall notify both the alarm subscriber and
alarm business or the proprietor alarm owner by mail of such fact and direct
that a report be submitted to the police chief within ten (10) working days of
the date of the mailing. The report shall contain:
            (1)   A description of the action taken or to be taken to discover
and eliminate the cause of the false alarm.
            (2)   Specific defenses, if any, why the alleged false alarms
should not be considered false alarms. Evidence that a false alarm was caused
by an act of God, common cause or action of the telephone company shall
constitute affirmative defenses to an assessment for the particular false
alarm.
         b.   The report required in subsection D2a of this section shall be
received by the police chief or his designee within the time specified. If the
report is not timely submitted, any notified party shall be deemed to have
waived his right to any further review or hearing as provided herein, and the
alarm business and alarm subscriber or the proprietor alarm owner operating the
alarm system generating the false alarms will be assessed pursuant to
subsection D2e of this section.
         c.   If the report required by subsection D2a of this section is
submitted, the police chief or his designee shall review the corrective action
taken or to be taken to discover and eliminate the cause of the false alarms
and the specific defenses, if any, set forth in the report to the initial
determination of false alarms. If it is determined that the corrective action
taken or to be taken will substantially reduce the likelihood of false alarms
or that a valid defense to the initial determination of false alarms has been
accepted, a notice will be sent to all notified parties that no assessment will
be made at that time. The notice shall specifically set forth the findings and
conclusions of the police chief with respect to the review of the report
submitted.
         d.   If the police chief or his designee determines that the action
taken or to be taken will not substantially reduce the likelihood of false
alarms or that a defense to the initial determination of false alarms has not
been alleged or accepted, a notice shall be sent by mail to both the alarm
subscriber and alarm business or the proprietor alarm owner that they will be
assessed pursuant to subsection D2e of this section. The notice of decision
shall contain the specific findings and conclusions of the police chief with
respect to the review of the report submitted.
         e.   Assessments imposed pursuant to subsections D2b and D2d of this
section shall be in an amount of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per false alarm.
The alarm subscriber shall be responsible for the payment of assessments
imposed his their alarm system. The owner of a proprietor alarm shall be
responsible for the payment of assessments imposed upon a proprietor alarm
system. Payments shall be made within ten (10) working days of the mailing date
for the assessment. (1988 Code § 4-2-12)
   E.   Appeal Procedures:
      1.   Any party aggrieved by a decision of the police chief or his
designee made pursuant to subsection D2c or D2d of this section may, within ten
(10) working days of receipt of notice of the decision, appeal to a hearing by
the town manager, his designee or any appeals board established by the town. A
copy of the appeal shall be sent to the police chief or his designee.
      2.   The request for an appeal to the town manager shall set forth the
specific objections to the decision of the police chief which forms the basis
of the appeal.
      3.   The town manager shall set the time and place for the hearing within
ten (10) working days or as soon as practical for the manager or his designee.
      4.   The hearing process shall be informal, but the decision of the
manager shall be final.
         a.   All parties have the right to present evidence in support of or
in opposition to the decision of the police chief.
         b.   The manager shall not be bound by the technical rules of
evidence.
         c.   The manager shall affirm the assessment imposed or reverse the
decision of the police chief or his designee.
         d.   In the case of an appeal being affirmed by the manager, the
assessment shall be paid within ten (10) working days of the appeal decision.
(1988 Code § 4-2-13)
   F.   Payment Of Assessment; Consequences Of Nonpayment: Upon a final
determination of assessment pursuant to this chapter, the responsible party
shall tender the fee assessed within ten (10) working days of the date ordered
or discontinue operation of the alarm system. In the event the operation of
said alarm is not discontinued and the assessment not tendered, its continued
operation by the alarm subscriber or proprietor alarm shall be determined
unlawful and subject the alarm subscriber or proprietor alarm to a misdemeanor
violation as a public nuisance subject to arrest/citation. (1988 Code § 4-2-14)
   G.   Grace Period:
      1.   Newly installed and reinstalled alarm systems shall not be subject
to the provisions of this chapter relating to the counting and assessment of
false alarms for a period of thirty (30) days from the date the alarm system
becomes operational. The grace period does not apply if the alarm business or
proprietor alarm owner fails to notify the police chief or his designee in
writing within ten (10) calendar days of the completion of installation or
reinstallation. The written notice shall specify the date the system was
installed or reinstalled. (1988 Code § 4-2-15)
      2.   The alarm business or proprietor alarm owner will be responsible for
notifying the police department of any newly installed or reinstalled alarm
system within ten (10) calendar days of its installation, whether monitored by
the alarm system business, the town or the county. The notification shall
contain the name, address and phone number of the responsible party for the
alarm business or proprietor alarm, plus alternate names and numbers. It shall
be unlawful for any business alarm or proprietor alarm owner to fail to make
such notification.
      3.   The police department shall be responsible for acknowledging the
receipt of every new business or proprietor alarm notification within five (5)
days of mailing, and shall be responsible for updating its responsible party
files for every business alarm and proprietor alarm within the town, for which
it monitors, every one hundred eighty (180) calendar days.
      4.   Every business alarm owner and proprietor alarm user shall advise
the police department of any name change, alarm system change, responsible
party change or phone number changes within forty eight (48) hours of the
changeover. (1988 Code § 4-2-15; amd. 2004 Code)
6-2-7: EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Equipment Standards: All alarm systems sold for installation or
installed within the town after the effective date hereof shall utilize
approved Underwriters Laboratory rated protection equipment or equipment
approved by some other recognized testing laboratory substantially the
equivalent. All electrical installations shall be in accordance with the town
electrical code 1 , and all necessary permits shall be obtained therefor. (1988
Code § 4-2-16)
   B.   Inspections: All alarm system equipment shall be subject to inspections
by any member of the Parker police department or town building official to
ascertain constant compliance with this chapter by the alarm user and alarm
business. (1988 Code § 4-2-17)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9, chapter 3 of this code.
6-2-8: RESPONSES TO ALARMS:
Once notified by the police department of an actual or false alarm, the
responsible party or his alternate will respond to the business, residence or
premises within thirty (30) minutes to secure or reset the alarm. Failure to
arrive, upon notification by the police department, within this time frame will
result in an additional assessment of forty five dollars ($45.00) for every
hour after the first half hour of no response. (1988 Code § 4-2-18; amd. 2004
Code)
6-2-9: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Manner Of Administration And Enforcement: The provisions of this
chapter shall be administered in a manner prescribed by the police chief as
approved by the common council of the town. (1988 Code § 4-2-4)
   B.   Administration And Enforcement Officials: The Parker police department
will be responsible for the monitoring, administration and enforcement of this
chapter.
   C.   Bills For And Collection Of Assessments; Failure To Pay: The town clerk
will administer the final billing of each assessment by the police department
and collection of each assessment. The town clerk will advise the Parker police
chief of any violations of this chapter for failure by alarm users to pay such
assessments imposed by the police chief or failure to pay such assessment as
affirmed by the town manager upon appeal. (1988 Code § 4-2-21; amd. 2004 Code)
6-2-10: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1988 Code § 4-2-19; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL 1
SECTION:
6-3-1: Definitions
6-3-2: Livestock And Poultry And Fowl
6-3-3: Condition Of Animal Houses
6-3-4: Noisy Animals
6-3-5: Dangerous, Vicious Animals
6-3-6: Pet Shops
6-3-7: Kennels
6-3-8: Rabies Control
6-3-9: Interference With Enforcement Agent Prohibited
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 11-1018.
6-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
ALTERED DOG: Any dog, either male or female, which has been neutered.
AT LARGE: Off the premises of the owner and not under the control of the
owners, or other persons acting for the owner.
COLLAR: A band, chain, harness or suitable device worn around the neck of a dog
to which a license may be affixed.
DOG: A member of the Canis familiaris family.
KENNEL: Any establishment, exclusive of one providing dental, medical or
surgical care or for quarantine purposes, which maintains more than five (5)
animals of the same species over four (4) months of age.
OWNER: Any person owning, keeping, possessing, harboring or maintaining an
animal.
PET SHOP: Any commercial establishment at which any animal is kept for sale,
bathed, groomed, clipped or treated for vermin.
POUND: Any establishment authorized by the town enforcement agent for the
confinement, maintenance, safekeeping and control of animals that come into the
custody of the town enforcement agent in the performance of his official
duties.
POUND ASSISTANT: Volunteer person over the age of twenty one (21) years so
designated to act in such capacity by the town enforcement officer, who has
filed with the town clerk a written acknowledgment signed by a veterinarian
that such person has received sufficient training to administer a parvo virus
and distemper vaccine and a written waiver and release signed by such person,
on a form approved by the town attorney, waiving and releasing all claims
against the town, its employees, or agents, arising from sickness or injuries
to such person incurred while acting in such capacity.
TOWN ENFORCEMENT AGENT: Any person designated by the town who is responsible
for the enforcement of this chapter and the regulations promulgated hereunder.
VACCINATION: An antirabies vaccination, parvo virus vaccination and distemper
vaccination using types of vaccines approved by the state veterinarian.
VETERINARIAN: Any veterinarian license to practice in Arizona or any
veterinarian employed in Arizona by a governmental agency.
VETERINARY HOSPITAL: Any established hospital operated by a veterinarian
licensed to practice in the state of Arizona that provides clinical facilities
and houses animals for dental, medical or surgical treatment. A "veterinary
hospital" may have adjacent to it or in conjunction with it or as an integral
part of it, pens, stalls, cages or kennels for quarantine, observation or
boarding. (1988 Code §§ 6-2-1, 6-2-8, 6-2-9; amd. 2004 Code)
6-3-2: LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY AND FOWL:
   A.   Running At Large Prohibited:  Any person who keeps or causes to be kept
any mules, burros, goats, sheep, fowl, or other livestock or poultry shall keep
such livestock or poultry in a pen or similar enclosure to prevent their
roaming at large within the corporate limits of the town. Any such livestock or
poultry running at large may be impounded by the town enforcement agent or any
police officer of the town.
   B.   Location Of Livestock Pens:  It is unlawful to keep, maintain or house
any goat, mule, sheep, burro or ratite in the town within one hundred feet
(100') of the nearest inhabited house or public meeting house on an adjoining
property unless permitted to do so under subsection E of this section.
   C.   Location Of Poultry Of And Fowl Pens: It is unlawful to keep, maintain
or house any poultry or fowl, within the Town of Parker within thirty feet
(30') of the  nearest inhabited house or public meeting and five feet (5') from
a shared property line.
   D.   Swine, Horse And Cattle: It is unlawful to keep or cause to be kept any
horse or cattle in the Town of Parker. It is unlawful to keep or cause to be
kept any swine or rooster in the Town of Parker unless permitted to do so under
subsection E of this section.
   E.   Eligible Youth Livestock Program:
      1.   Exemptions From Provisions: The restrictions of subsections B, C and
D of this section do not apply during the time period commencing one hundred
eighty (180) days prior to the La Paz County fair, or two (2) or two hundred
forty (240) days as applied to lambs and goats, and ending seven (7) days after
the conclusion of the county fair to individuals who keep an animal for the
purposes of the involvement of a household resident participating in a youth
educational program sponsored or conducted by a nonprofit corporation or
governmental entity. Under such circumstances, a household may keep, maintain
or house up to three (3) such animals or the number of animals corresponding to
the household's residents participating in such programs, whichever is less.
      2.   Permit Required; Fee: Any household wishing to keep, maintain or
house an animal under this subsection shall provide the contact numbers of any
program supervisors or leaders to surrounding residents within hone hundred
feet (100') from the property line before obtaining a youth inspection
livestock permit, at a fee established by resolution of the town council, from
the town enforcement agent prior to the animal's arrival at the household. Town
of Parker Code Enforcement may conduct an inspection of the premises prior to
the issuance of a youth inspection livestock permit. Failure to comply with
inspection may result in the denial or revocation of a youth livestock
exemption permit.
      3.   Location Of Pens: Animal pens shall be set back a minimum of thirty
feet (30') from neighbors' living quarters and no less than five feet (5') from
the common property line. Pens must be adequate in size and constructed to
prevent debris or waste from entering onto neighboring property. (Ord. 04-2020,
12-1-2020)
6-3-3: CONDITION OF ANIMAL HOUSES 1 :
It is unlawful to cause or allow any stable or place where any animal is or may
be kept to become a threat to the health or safety of any person. (1988 Code §
6-1-5)
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 9-240, subsection B21(b).
6-3-4: NOISY ANIMALS:
It is unlawful to harbor or keep any animals that disturb the peace by loud
noises at any time of the day or night. (1988 Code § 6-1-3)
6-3-5: DANGEROUS, VICIOUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Running At Large Prohibited; Impoundment: It is unlawful to permit any
dangerous, vicious animal of any kind to run at large within the town, and such
animals shall be immediately impounded by the town enforcement agent or the
police department. (1988 Code § 6-1-1; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Killing Dangerous Animals: The town enforcement agent or any police
officer of the town is authorized to kill any dangerous animal of any kind when
it is necessary for the protection of any person or property. (1988 Code § 6-1-
2; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Parades And Exhibitions; Permit Required 2 : Exhibitions or parades of
animals which are ferae naturae in the eyes of the law may be conducted only
upon securing a permit from the chief of police or such person that he may
appoint. (1988 Code § 6-1-1)
 
Notes
2 2. See title 7, chapter 3 of this code for additional parade regulations.
6-3-6: PET SHOPS:
   A.   Conditions And Restrictions:
      1.   Sick, Injured Animals:
         a.   No sick or injured animal maintained on the premises of a pet
shop shall be offered for sale.
         b.   Animals receiving medical care and quarantined animals shall not
be commingled.
      2.   Young Animals: Animals which are unweaned or so young that their
sale would be injurious to them shall not be sold, offered for sale nor given
away.
      3.   Required Space For Dogs And Cats: Dogs and cats kept in pet shops
shall be caged so that each animal is afforded no less than twenty (20) square
feet in area per each dog or cat; except, that dogs and cats maintained less
than twenty four (24) hours or who are less than twenty (20) pounds in weight
shall be caged so that each animal is afforded not less than eight (8) square
feet. (1988 Code § 6-2-8)
      4.   Health And Sanitary Conditions Of Premises And Cages:
         a.   Premises where animals are kept shall be vented to the external
air and be adequately lighted to provide visibility.
         b.   The premises shall be properly plumbed, having adequate supply of
water readily accessible to the portions of the premises in which the animals
are kept.
         c.   Cages shall be concrete, tile or similar suitable, nonporous
material.
         d.   The premises, implements, cages, yards, runs and appurtenances
shall be kept clean, sanitary, free of animal parasites and droppings or other
health hazards and shall be cleaned and disinfected at least daily.
      5.   Use For Human Habitation; Human Food Preparation Prohibited: No
portion of a pet shop shall be used for human habitation, nor shall food for
human consumption be prepared or served in the same room in which animals are
kept.
   B.   Enforcement: The town enforcement agent shall be responsible for the
enforcement of the provisions of this section regarding pet shops. The
enforcement agent shall make such periodic inspections as he deems appropriate
but in no event less than semiannually. (1988 Code § 6-2-8; amd. 2004 Code)
6-3-7: KENNELS:
   A.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permit Required: Any person who owns, maintains or harbors more than
five (5) animals of the same species over four (4) months of age must obtain a
kennel permit. (1988 Code § 6-2-9)
      2.   Permit Fees: The kennel permit fees and any fees for  delinquent
payments shall be determined by the council by resolution and shall expire on
January 1 and shall be delinquent February 1. No kennel permit fee shall be
prorated or refunded nor shall the permit be transferable.
   B.   Requirements: The following provisions, except where inconsistent,
shall apply to animal kennels:
      1.   Payment Of Fee; Notice: It shall be the duty of the owner of the
kennel to pay the kennel fee imposed to the town enforcement agent on or before
February 1 in each year or upon establishing a kennel in the town. The town
enforcement agent shall cause a notice of the necessity of paying such kennel
permit fee to be printed in a newspaper of general circulation within the town
at least once before February 1 of each year.
      2.   Register Kept:
         a.   The permittee shall retain the name, address and telephone number
of the owner of each boarded animal and the license number of each animal. This
register must be exhibited to the town enforcement agent or his deputy upon
demand. (1988 Code § 6-2-9; amd. 2004 Code)
         b.   The permittee shall retain the name and address of each person
selling, trading or giving any animal to the kennel.
      3.   Noise And Odor Control: The permittee shall operate the kennel so as
to eliminate excessive or untimely noise from animals and offensive odors from
the kennel.
      4.   Sick Animals: The permittee shall provide an isolation ward for sick
animals, sufficiently removed so as not to endanger the health of other
animals.
      5.   Problems With Animals; Owner Notified: The permittee shall notify
the owner of a boarded animal when such animal refuses to eat or drink, causing
it to lose weight, or when such animal is injured or becomes weak or ill.
   C.   Additional Requirements For Dogs And Cats: In addition to the
provisions of subsection B of this section, caged areas shall contain no less
than twenty (20) square feet per any dog or cat boarded, and the outside run
area shall be no less than forty (40) square feet per dog or cat. (1988 Code §
6-2-9)
6-3-8: RABIES CONTROL:
   A.   Unvaccinated, Impounded Dogs: If a dog is impounded and found to be
unvaccinated, the town enforcement agent is hereby authorized to cause such a
dog to be vaccinated at the pound at a cost to be borne by the owner. The
vaccination shall be administered by a veterinarian, who shall issue a
certificate of vaccination. (1988 Code § 6-2-4)
   B.   Bites By Dogs And Cats:
      1.   Report Required: Whenever a dog or cat bites any person, the
incident shall be reported to the town enforcement agent immediately by any
person having direct knowledge.
      2.   Unlicensed, Unvaccinated Dogs And Unvaccinated Cats: Any unlicensed
or unvaccinated dog or an unvaccinated cat that bites any person shall be
quarantined and impounded or, at the request of and at the expense of the
owner, placed in a veterinary hospital for a period of not less than ten (10)
days. The owner of any dog or cat that has bitten a person may voluntarily
deliver the dog or cat to the town enforcement agent at the pound; otherwise,
there shall be an assessment against the owner if the town enforcement agent
must pick up the dog or cat. If the dog or cat is impounded in the pound for
observation as a result of a bite incident, there shall be a per day charge for
board.
      3.   Licensed And Vaccinated Dogs And Vaccinated Cats: A dog properly
licensed and vaccinated or a cat properly vaccinated pursuant to this chapter
that bites any person, may be confined and quarantined at the home of the
owner, or wherever the dog or cat is harbored and maintained, with the consent
of and in a manner prescribed by the town enforcement agent. (1988 Code § 6-2-
4; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Bites By Caged Rodents: If the animal is a caged rodent, it may be
confined and quarantined at the home of the owner, or where it is harbored or
maintained, for the required period of time, with the consent of and in a
manner prescribed by the town enforcement agent.
   D.   Bites By Wild Animals: Any wild animal which bites any person may be
killed and submitted to the town enforcement agent or any town police officer
for transmission to an appropriate laboratory. (1988 Code § 6-2-4)
6-3-9: INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCEMENT AGENT PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to interfere with the town enforcement agent in
the performance of his duties. (1988 Code § 6-2-7)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL
ARTICLE A.  DOGS 1
SECTION:
6-3A-1: License Fees And Tags
6-3A-2: Antirabies Vaccination Required
6-3A-3: Running At Large
6-3A-4: Impoundment And Redemption Provisions
6-3A-5: Dog Waste; Nuisance Conditions
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 9-240, subsection B16, and § 11-1018.
6-3A-1: LICENSE FEES AND TAGS:
   A.   License Fees:
      1.   Fee Required And Established: A license fee as provided by
resolution of the council shall be paid for each dog six (6) months of age or
over that is kept, harbored or maintained within the boundaries of the town for
at least sixty (60) days of each calendar year. Separate license fees may be
established for altered and unaltered dogs. The town enforcement agent shall
assist the chief of police in the establishment of regulations to implement
verification of altered and unaltered dogs.
      2.   Payment Of Fee; Penalty For Nonpayment: License fees shall be due on
January 1 of each year, and the license fee shall be paid within thirty (30)
days to the town enforcement agent or any police officer of the town. A penalty
of two dollars ($2.00) shall be added to the license fee in the event that
application is made subsequent to the date on which the dog is required to be
licensed under the provisions of this article. This penalty shall not be
assessed against applicants who furnish adequate proof that the dog to be
licensed has been in their possession less than sixty (60) days. (1988 Code §
6-2-2)
      3.   Guide Dogs Exempt: A guide dog belonging to a blind, hearing
impaired or any other person with disabilities, who is a resident of the state,
or any bona fide nonprofit organization which is in the business of breeding,
raising or training dogs that are to be used for guiding blind, hearing
impaired, or any other persons with disabilities shall, upon application by the
owner or organization to the town enforcement agent and on presentation of
proper proof, be licensed pursuant to this article without payment of a fee.
   B.   Tags:
      1.   Contents Of Tag; Wearing Tag Required: Each dog licensed under the
terms of this article shall receive, at the time of licensing, a tag on which
shall be inscribed the name of the town, the number of the license and the year
in which it expires. The tag shall be attached to a collar or harness which
shall be worn by the dog at all times except as otherwise provided in this
article.
      2.   Duplicate Tags; Fee: Whenever a dog tag is lost, a duplicate tag
shall be issued upon application by the owner and payment of a fee established
by resolution of the town council to the town enforcement agent or his
authorized representative.
      3.   Counterfeit Tags, Improper Use Prohibited: It is unlawful for any
person to counterfeit or attempt to counterfeit an official dog tag or remove
such tag from any dog for the purpose of wilful and malicious mischief or place
a dog tag upon a dog unless the tag was issued to that dog.
      4.   Exemptions From Wearing Tags: Dogs being exhibited at approved dog
shows, and such dogs while being transported to and from such events, need not
wear a collar or harness with a valid license attached; provided, that they are
properly vaccinated and licensed.
      5.   Enforcement: The town enforcement agent shall apprehend and impound
any dog found without a current valid license tag.
   C.   Transfer Of License; Fee: Whenever the ownership of a dog has been
changed, the new owner must secure a transfer of license to such owner. A
transfer fee as established by resolution of the town council shall be charged
to transfer any license. (1988 Code § 6-2-2; amd. 2004 Code)
6-3A-2: ANTIRABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED 1 :
   A.   Before a license is issued for any dog, the owner must present a rabies
vaccination certificate signed by a veterinarian stating the owner's name and
address and giving the dog's description, date of vaccination, and type,
manufacturer and serial number of the vaccine and date revaccination is due. A
duplicate of each rabies vaccination certificate issued shall be transmitted to
the town enforcement agent on or before the tenth day of the month following
the month during which the dog was vaccinated. No dog shall be licensed unless
it is vaccinated in accordance with the provisions of this article and the
regulations promulgated hereunder.
   B.   A dog vaccinated in any other place prior to entry into the town may be
licensed; provided, that at the time of licensing, the owner of such dog
presents a rabies vaccination certificate, signed by a veterinarian licensed to
practice in that place or a veterinarian employed by a government agency in
that place, stating the owner's name and address and giving the dog's
description, date of vaccination, and type, manufacturer and serial number of
the vaccine used. The vaccination must be in conformity with the provisions of
this article and the regulations promulgated hereunder.
   C.   The enforcement agent shall make provisions for low cost rabies
vaccination clinics as deemed necessary.
   D.   The rabies vaccination shall be performed by a veterinarian. (1988 Code
§ 6-2-3; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 11-1010; see section 6-3-8 of this chapter for rabies control
  provisions.
6-3A-3: RUNNING AT LARGE:
   A.   Determination Of At Large Dog: No person owning, keeping, possessing,
harboring or maintaining a dog shall allow said dog to be at large. A dog is
not deemed to be at large:
      1.   If said dog is restrained by a leash, chain, rope or cord of not
more than six feet (6') in length and of sufficient strength to control the
action of said dog.
      2.   While said dog is actively engaged in dog obedience training
accompanied by and under the control of the owner or trainer; provided, that
the person training said dog has in possession a dog leash of not more than six
feet (6') in length and of sufficient strength to control said dog; and
provided further, that said dog is actually enrolled in or has graduated from a
dog obedience training school which has been approved by the town enforcement
agent.
      3.   While said dog is being exhibited at an approved show.
   B.   Enforcement: The town enforcement agent may apprehend and impound any
dog running at large contrary to the provisions of this section, or he may, in
lieu of impoundment, cite the owner into any court of competent jurisdiction.
The town enforcement agent shall have the right to enter upon private property
when it is necessary in order to apprehend any dog that has been running at
large. Such entrance upon private property shall be in reasonable pursuit of
such dog.
   C.   Application Of Provisions:
      1.   Running at large shall apply to livestock, poultry, fowl and ferrets
1 .
      2.   This section shall not apply to any animal being displayed at an
approved show or fair. (1988 Code § 6-2-5)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 6-3-2A of this chapter.
6-3A-4: IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION PROVISIONS:
   A.   Time Of Impoundment; Redemption And Disposition:
      1.   Unlicensed Dogs: Each unlicensed dog shall be kept and maintained at
the pound for a minimum of three (3) days. At the expiration of the impoundment
period, anyone may claim the dog, provided such person pays all established
pound fees and complies with the licensing provisions of this article. If no
person claims the dog, the town enforcement agent may dispose of the dog in a
humane manner.
      2.   Licensed Dogs: Any impounded licensed dog may be reclaimed;
provided, that the person reclaiming the dog furnishes proof of the right to do
so and pays all established pound fees. If the dog is not reclaimed within six
(6) days, the town enforcement agent shall take possession and may place the
dog for adoption or may dispose of the dog in a humane manner. Any person
adopting such a dog shall pay all established pound fees.
   B.   Destruction Of Injured, Diseased Dogs: Any licensed or unlicensed dog
which apparently is suffering from serious injuries and is in great pain and
probably would not recover, or which has evidence of any infectious disease
which is a danger to other dogs or to man may be destroyed by the town
enforcement agent in as humane a manner as possible after reasonable efforts to
notify the owner have failed. (1988 Code § 6-2-6)
   C.   Vaccination For Parvo Virus And Distemper:
      1.   No impounded dog shall be placed in direct contact with other
impounded dogs unless the dog is first vaccinated with a parvo virus and
distemper vaccine; provided, however, that such vaccine shall be provided at no
cost to the town by the animal relief fund or other interested organization(s).
      2.   A parvo virus and distemper vaccine may be administered by the town
enforcement agent or a pound assistant. In the case of a dog whose owner is
located prior to the administration of a parvo virus and distemper vaccine, the
owner may designate the person to administer the vaccine; provided, that the
owner first agrees in writing to bear the costs of such vaccination and of
transporting the dog to the place where the vaccination is to take place.
      3.   A written record shall be kept for each dog vaccinated for parvo
virus and distemper by the town enforcement agent or a pound assistant. Each
record shall contain the name, if known, of the dog, a description of the dog,
the date of vaccination, the name of the person who administered the
vaccination, the name of the manufacturer of the vaccine, and the lot number of
the vaccine administered. (1988 Code § 6-2-12)
   D.   Fees And Costs:
      1.   The council may, by resolution, establish impound fees for animals
which are impounded for running at large. Impoundment costs shall include an
assessment for each time said dog is impounded, and a per day charge for the
care and feeding of the dog while impounded. (1988 Code § 6-2-6)
      2.   The council may, by resolution, establish a fee for the adoption of
an impounded and unclaimed dog, which shall be in addition to any fee for
license, antirabies vaccination, parvo virus vaccination and distemper
vaccination, and board. (1988 Code § 6-2-11; amd. 2004 Code)
      3.   For an animal which has been impounded by its owner, the council may
establish by resolution a fee which the town may charge for disposing of said
animal in an appropriate manner. Disposal shall include adoption or euthanasia.
(1988 Code § 6-2-11)
6-3A-5: DOG WASTE; NUISANCE CONDITIONS:
   A.   Prohibitions: No person owning or in charge of any dog shall cause or
allow such dog to soil, defile, defecate on or commit any nuisance on any
common thoroughfare, sidewalk, passageway, bypath, play area, park or any place
where people congregate or walk, or upon any public property whatsoever, or
upon any private property without the permission of the owner of said property.
(1988 Code § 6-2-10)
   B.   Removal And Disposal Of Waste Required: Any person owning or in charge
of any dog which soils, defiles, defecates on or commits any nuisance on any
common thoroughfare, sidewalk, passageway, bypath, play area, park or any place
where people congregate or walk, or upon any public property whatsoever, or
upon any private property without the permission of the owner of said property
shall immediately remove all feces deposited by any such dog by any sanitary
method approved by the town enforcement agent. The feces removed shall be
disposed of by the person owning or in charge of any dog in accordance with the
provisions of this section.
   C.   Exemptions From Provisions: The provisions of this section shall not
apply to blind persons who may use dogs as guides. (1988 Code § 6-2-10; amd.
2004 Code)
CHAPTER 4
MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Explosives And Fireworks
6-4-2: Display Of Vehicles For Sale
6-4-3: Offensive Premises
6-4-4: Overnight Camping
6-4-5: Prostitution
6-4-6: Searchlights
6-4-7: Possession And Use Of Alcohol And Drugs Near Public Facilities
6-4-8: Interference With Peace Officer
6-4-9: Serving Or Allowing Underage Drinking Or Illegal Drug Use
6-4-10: Unlawful Gatherings
6-4-1: EXPLOSIVES AND FIREWORKS:
   A.   Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
    CONSUMER FIREWORK: Fireworks as defined as such by Arizona Revised Statutes
section 36-1601, as amended.
   DISPLAY FIREWORK: Fireworks as defined as such by Arizona Revised Statutes
section 36-1601, as amended.
   EXPENSES OF AN EMERGENCY RESPONSE: The reasonable costs directly incurred by
public agencies, for profit entities or not for profit entities that make an
appropriate emergency response to an incident.
   FIREWORKS: Any combustible or explosive composition, substance or
combination of substances, or any article prepared for the purpose of producing
a visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration or
detonation, including a consumer firework, display firework or permissible
consumer fireworks as defined by Arizona Revised Statutes section 36-1601, as
amended.
   NOVELTY ITEMS: Federally deregulated novelty items that are known as
snappers, snap caps, party poppers, glow worms, snakes, toy smoke devices,
sparklers, and certain toys as defined in Arizona Revised Statutes section 36-
1601, as amended.
   PERMISSIBLE CONSUMER FIREWORKS: Those fireworks of the same title as defined
by Arizona Revised Statutes section 36-1601.
   REASONABLE COSTS: May include, but are not limited to, the costs of
providing police, firefighting, rescue and emergency medical services at the
scene of an incident and the salaries of the persons who respond to the
incident.
   SUPERVISED PUBLIC DISPLAY: A monitored professional or commercial
performance of display fireworks open to the public and authorized by permit by
the police chief or authorized designee. (Ord. 01-2011, 4-5-2011; amd. Ord. 04-
2014, 7-1-2014)
   B.   Use Of Fireworks Prohibited; Exceptions:
      1.   The use, discharge or ignition of fireworks within the town is
prohibited, except for the following:
         a.   The use of permissible consumer fireworks is allowed from June 24
through July 6 and December 24 through January 3 each year.
         b.   By permit for supervised public display of fireworks. (Ord. 04-
2014, 7-1-2014)
      2.   Permits may be granted by the police chief or authorized designee
for conducting a supervised public display of fireworks. Every such supervised
public display of fireworks shall be of such character and so located,
discharged or fired, only after proper inspection, and in a manner that does
not endanger persons, animals or property. A permit shall not be issued, and
may be revoked, during periods of high fire danger warnings. The police chief
or authorized designee has authority to impose conditions on any permits
granted.
      3.   Failure to comply with any permit requirements issued by the police
chief or authorized designee is a criminal offense punishable by a base fine of
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each violation per incident.
      4.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the use,
discharge or ignition of novelty items.
   C.   Sale Of Fireworks:
      1.   No person shall sell or permit or authorize the sale of permissible
consumer fireworks to a person who is under sixteen (16) years of age.
      2.   No person shall sell or permit or authorize the sale of permissible
consumer fireworks in conflict with state law. (Ord. 01-2011, 4-5-2011)
      3.   The sale of permissible consumer fireworks is allowed from May 20
through July 6 and December 10 through January 3 each year.
   D.   Posting Of Signs By Persons Engaged In The Sale Of Fireworks; Penalty:
      1.   Prior to the sale of permissible consumer fireworks, every person
engaged in such sales shall prominently display signs indicating the following:
         a.   The use of fireworks, including permissible consumer fireworks,
except "novelty items" as defined by this code and state law, is prohibited
within the corporate limits of the town, except the use of permissible consumer
fireworks is allowed from June 24 through July 6 and December 24 through
January 3 each year. If a federal or state agency implements stage one fire
restrictions in any portion of La Paz County, all use of permissible consumer
fireworks is prohibited. (Ord. 04-2014, 7-1-2014)
      2.   Signs required under this section shall be placed at each cash
register and in each area where fireworks are displayed for sale.
      3.   The police chief or authorized designee shall develop regulations
concerning the size and color of the required signs and shall develop a model
sign. The required sign regulations and model sign shall be posted on the
town's website and filed with the town clerk's office.
      4.   Failure to comply with subsection D1 or D2 of this section is a
criminal offense punishable by a base fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00) to
a maximum of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) per incident.
   E.   Enforcement: The police chief or authorized designee, a town police
officer or the town prosecutor may issue criminal complaints to enforce
violations of this section designated as criminal offenses.
   F.   Liability For Emergency Responses Related To Use Of Fireworks:
      1.   A person who uses, discharges or ignites permissible consumer
fireworks, fireworks or anything that is designed or intended to rise into the
air and explode or to detonate in the air or to fly above the ground, is liable
for the expenses of an emergency response that is required by such use,
discharge or ignition. The fact that a person is convicted or found responsible
for a violation(s) of this section is prima facie evidence of liability under
this section.
      2.   The expenses of an emergency response are a charge against the
person liable for those expenses pursuant to subsection F1 of this section. The
charge constitutes a debt of that person and may be collected proportionately
by the public agencies, for profit entities or not for profit entities that
incurred the expenses. The liability imposed under this section is in addition
to, and not in limitation of, any other liability that may be imposed.
   G.   Unlawful: It is unlawful for any person within the limits of the town
to blast or use powder, fireworks or other explosives except as set forth in
this section. (Ord. 01-2011, 4-5-2011)
   H.   Penalty: Unless otherwise specifically set forth in this section, the
penalty for violating any prohibition or requirement imposed by this section is
a civil penalty of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
   I.   Stage One Fire Restrictions: If a federal or state agency implements
stage one fire restrictions in any portion of La Paz County, all sale and use
of fireworks, including permissible consumer fireworks, is prohibited. (Ord.
04-2014, 7-1-2014)
6-4-2: DISPLAY OF VEHICLES FOR SALE:
   A.   Prohibitions:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to display any vehicle or boat
for sale on vacant or undeveloped and unsurfaced property, and no owner or
occupant of vacant, undeveloped, or unsurfaced property shall allow or permit
such displays.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to display any vehicle or boat
for sale on any town right of way.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any business to display any vehicle or boat
for sale that is not a business licensed to conduct auto/boat sales.
   B.   Exemptions:
      1.   Patrons, employees and vehicles used to commute to and from any
business.
      2.   Any resident of the town may place for sale their own registered
vehicle upon their residential lot. (1988 Code § 10-1-7)
6-4-3: OFFENSIVE PREMISES:
It is unlawful for any person to suffer or permit any premises belonging to or
occupied by him, or any cellar, privy, vault, pool, sewer or private drain
therein, to become noxious, foul or offensive to the senses or prejudicial to
the public health or comfort. (1988 Code § 10-1-10)
6-4-4: OVERNIGHT CAMPING:
   A.   Prohibited: Overnight camping by any person, whether or not such
camping takes place in a motor vehicle, shall be prohibited upon any public or
private land, which property is not licensed by the town as a campground.
   B.   Exemptions:
      1.   The prohibition of subsection A of this section shall not apply to
the landowner when camping on such land for his own private use and enjoyment,
provided such camping is not in violation of this code and does not exceed
sixty (60) days.
      2.   The prohibition of subsection A of this section shall not apply to
any recognized civic, service or philanthropic organization which desires to
conduct an organized and supervised camping activity related to the purpose of
the organization on public or private land and for which the organization has
secured the prior permission of the town council or chief of police. (1988 Code
§ 10-1-11)
6-4-5: PROSTITUTION 1 :
It is unlawful for any person to practice prostitution, to patronize a
prostitute or to solicit any person to visit or patronize a prostitute or place
of prostitution. (1988 Code § 10-1-12)
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 9-240, subsection B17(a).
6-4-6: SEARCHLIGHTS:
   A.   Permit Required: It is unlawful for any person to operate within the
town any incandescent or arc type searchlight, beacon light or similar lighting
device designed to and capable of projecting a beam of light into the sky for a
distance in excess of one-half (1/2) mile unless a permit is obtained from the
chief of police. (1988 Code § 10-1-13)
   B.   Permit Fee: A fee as established by resolution of the town council for
such permit shall be collected by the chief of police. (1988 Code § 10-1-13;
amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Exemptions From Provisions: The provisions of this section shall not
apply to emergency searchlights or beacons operated pursuant to public
authority. (1988 Code § 10-1-13)
6-4-7: POSSESSION AND USE OF ALCOHOL AND DRUGS NEAR PUBLIC FACILITIES:
   A.   Definitions:
    MARIJUANA, DANGEROUS DRUGS AND NARCOTIC DRUGS: Shall have the definition
provided by state law.
   OPENLY CONSUME: To drink directly from a can, bottle or other container
which bears a label describing the contents of such can, bottle or other
container to be alcohol or to contain alcohol, whether or not such can, bottle
or other container is concealed by an opaque wrapper.
   B.   Prohibitions: A person is guilty of a class one misdemeanor who, within
one-half (1/2) mile of a school, athletic field, church, swimming pool,
library, park, skatepark or well:
      1.   Possesses any quantity of marijuana, dangerous drugs or narcotic
drugs;
      2.   Is under the influence of marijuana, a dangerous drug or a narcotic
drug; or
      3.   Is under the influence of alcohol or who openly consumes alcohol.
   C.   Testing Of Bodily Substances:
      1.   Any person whom a law enforcement officer has probable cause to
suspect is in violation of subsection B2 or B3 of this section shall submit to
a test or tests of the person's blood, breath, urine or other bodily substance
for the purpose of determining alcohol concentration or drug content.
      2.   If the suspected violator has been requested to submit to and
successfully complete any test or tests prescribed by subsection C1 of this
section and the suspected violator refuses, the suspected violator shall be
informed that he is subject to a civil sanction for refusing.
      3.   A person cited and found responsible for continuing to refuse any
test or tests prescribed by subsection C1 of this section after having been
advised of the civil sanction for such refusal shall be fined five hundred
dollars ($500.00).
      4.   Imposition of this civil fine shall not serve as a bar to the
admissibility of the results of tests obtained pursuant to a search warrant as
evidence against the suspected violator in a trial for violating subsection B2
or B3 of this section.
   D.   Affirmative Defenses:
      1.   It is a defense to a violation of subsections B1 and B2 of this
section if the person possesses a valid prescription for the dangerous or
narcotic drug involved.
      2.   It is a defense to a violation of subsection B3 of this section if
the person consumes alcohol or is under the influence of alcohol within an
establishment licensed to serve alcohol, within a private residential structure
or the curtilage thereof, within a fenced residential yard with the consent of
the residents thereof, or at an event where the council has approved the
serving of alcohol.
   E.   Permissible Inferences:
      1.   A person having an alcohol concentration greater than 0.08 is under
the influence of alcohol.
      2.   A person who declines to provide samples of blood, breath or urine
for testing is under the influence of alcohol, marijuana, dangerous drugs or
narcotic drugs.
      3.   A person who tests presumptively positive for the presence of
marijuana, dangerous drugs or narcotic drugs in blood or urine is under the
influence of the substance for which the presumptive positive result applies.
      4.   A person who displays four (4) or more clues of horizontal gaze
nystagmus (HGN) as determined by an HGN technician is under the influence of
alcohol.
      5.   A person whose ability to operate a motor vehicle is impaired by the
use of marijuana, dangerous drugs or narcotic drugs as determined by a
certified drug recognition expert (DRE) is under the influence of marijuana,
dangerous drugs or narcotic drugs. The DRE need not identify the specific drug
causing the impairment.
   F.   Penalties:
      1.   A person convicted of violating subsection B1 or B2 of this section
shall be ordered to pay a fine in the amount of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00), plus applicable surcharges. Jail may not be substituted for the
fine, but the fine may be exchanged for one hundred eighty (180) hours of
community work service performed for the town, a school within the town, or a
church within the town.
      2.   A person convicted of violating subsection B3 of this section shall
be ordered to pay a fine in the amount of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00),
plus surcharges. Jail may not be substituted for the fine, but the fine may be
exchanged for forty five (45) hours of community work service performed for the
town, a school within the town, or a church within the town.
      3.   Sentencing for violations of subsections B1 and B2 of this section
are controlled by Arizona Revised Statutes section 13-901.01 for those who are
eligible under the provisions of that statute. (2004 Code)
6-4-8: INTERFERENCE WITH PEACE OFFICER:
A person is guilty of a class one misdemeanor who fails to abide by the orders
or instructions of a person reasonably known to them to be a peace officer
acting under color of authority and engaged in any official duty. (2004 Code)
6-4-9: SERVING OR ALLOWING UNDERAGE DRINKING OR ILLEGAL DRUG USE:
   A.   No person eighteen (18) years or older who owns or occupies any
premises, irrespective of that person's ownership or control of the occupied
premises, shall serve spirituous liquor to a minor or knowingly permit
consumption of spirituous liquor by a minor or knowingly permit the possession
or consumption of illegal drugs by any person on such premises.
   B.   A person who violates this section is guilty of a class one
misdemeanor.
   C.   "Minor" means any person under the age of twenty one (21) years.
   D.   "Spirituous liquor" shall have the same meaning as defined in Arizona
Revised Statutes section 4-101(31). (Ord. 02-2011, 4-5-2011)
6-4-10: UNLAWFUL GATHERINGS:
   A.   Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   MINOR: Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years.
   PARTY, GATHERING, OR EVENT: A group of two (2) or more persons who have
assembled or are assembling on unlicensed premises for a social occasion or a
social activity.
   PERSON: The person who owns, rents, leases, or otherwise has control or is
in charge of the residence or premises where the party, gathering, or event
takes place.
   SPIRITUOUS LIQUOR: Shall have the same meaning as defined in Arizona Revised
Statutes section 4-101(31).
   B.   Unlawful Gathering; Host Presumption:
      1.   Unlawful Gathering: It shall be unlawful for any person to permit,
allow, or host a party, gathering, or event at his or her place of residence or
other premises under his or her ownership or control where spirituous liquor is
served to, or is in the possession of, or consumed by, any minor, or where
illegal drugs are in the possession of, or consumed by, any person.
      2.   Host Presumption: If the person in violation of subsection B1 of
this section is a minor, then the parent(s) or legal guardian(s) of such minor
and the minor shall be considered "persons" and, as such, each person shall be
subject to the penalties imposed pursuant to this section, provided that the
parent(s) or legal guardian(s) knew or should have known of the unlawful
gathering, and knew or should have known that spirituous liquor would be
served, possessed or consumed by minors at the unlawful gathering or that
illegal drug possession or consumption was occurring at the unlawful gathering.
The owner or tenant of the premises at which the unlawful gathering was held
shall not be liable if use of the premises was obtained through illegal entry
or trespassing.
   C.   Violation: Any person, who permits, allows, or hosts an unlawful
gathering shall be in violation of this section and shall be subject to
criminal penalties as set forth in subsection D of this section.
   D.   Penalties:
      1.   Unlawful Gathering: The penalty for the first violation of this
section shall be a minimum mandatory base fine of two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) and, if available, the successful and timely completion of a drug and
alcohol prevention and education program to be determined by the judge.
      2.   Subsequent Unlawful Gathering: For second and subsequent violation
(s) in accordance with this subsection D, such second or subsequent violation
(s) shall constitute a class one misdemeanor punishable by a base fine not to
exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) or by imprisonment for a
period not to exceed six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   E.   Enforcement: The police department is authorized to enforce the
provisions of this section. (Ord. 02-2011, 4-5-2011)
CHAPTER 5
JUVENILES
SECTION:
6-5-1: Curfew Regulations
6-5-1: CURFEW REGULATIONS:
   A.   Age And Hour Restrictions: It is unlawful for any person under eighteen
(18) years of age to idle or loiter upon the streets or public places of the
town between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
on any evening next preceding a day on which the public schools located within
the town are in session, or between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and five
o'clock (5:00) A.M. on any other evening, unless such person is accompanied by
a parent, guardian or some person of lawful age having legal custody of such
person.
   B.   Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian: It is unlawful for any parent,
guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of such person to
encourage or allow such person to idle or loiter upon the streets or public
places of the town between the hours specified in this section unless
accompanied by such parent or guardian.
   C.   Exemptions From Provisions: The provisions of this section shall not
apply when the person is upon an emergency errand or legitimate business
directed by his or her parent, guardian or other adult person having the care
and custody of the person. (1988 Code § 10-1-5)
CHAPTER 6
GRAFFITI
SECTION:
6-6-1: Definitions
6-6-2: Graffiti Prohibited
6-6-3: Removal From Private Property
6-6-4: Removal From Public Property
6-6-5: Sales Of Certain Products To Underage Persons
6-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
GRAFFITI: Unauthorized marking, such as initials, slogans or drawings, written,
spray painted, etched or sketched on a sidewalk, wall, building, fence, sign or
any other structure or surface.
OWNER: The person indicated on the records of the La Paz County assessor or
other official body as the owner of record of the property in question.
UNAUTHORIZED: Without the prior permission of the property owner or responsible
party. (1988 Code §
10-1-7)
6-6-2: GRAFFITI PROHIBITED:
All sidewalks, walls, buildings, fences, signs and other structures or surfaces
shall be kept free from graffiti when the graffiti is visible from the street
or other public or private property. (1988 Code § 10-1-7)
6-6-3: REMOVAL FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   Notice To Remove: If it is determined by the town that graffiti exists
on property in violation of this chapter, the town shall, in writing, notify
the owner of the property or the responsible party through the issuance of a
notice of violation providing a maximum of ten (10) days to abate the graffiti
which may be served by certified mail, personal service, or by posting the
affected property and publishing the notice in the local newspaper. The notice
of violation shall identify the property in violation, shall generally describe
the location of the graffiti, and shall direct that the graffiti shall be
abated within ten (10) days of receipt of the notice. The notice shall state
that in the event the owner or responsible party fails to abate the graffiti
within the time period specified in the notice of violation, the town shall
abate the graffiti and bill the owner or responsible party for the costs
thereof. The notice shall state that the owner or responsible party may appeal
the notice to the town clerk by filing a written notice of appeal with the town
clerk within ten (10) days of the violation notice, accompanied with an appeal
fee as established by resolution of the town council. (1988 Code § 10-1-7; amd.
2004 Code)
   B.   Abatement By Town; Costs:
      1.   Town To Abate; Costs To Owner: In the event that the owner or
responsible party fails to abate the graffiti as required by the notice of
violation, the town may proceed to abate the graffiti and bill the owner or the
responsible party for the costs thereof. In the event that the bill is not
paid, a statement of account shall be certified by the chief fiscal officer who
shall collect the same due, together with any interest at the rate established
by law.
      2.   Authority To Abate; Entry Powers: The town or its authorized
contractor is expressly authorized to enter onto private property and abate
graffiti thereon in accordance with this chapter. The town police department
shall assist the code enforcement officer in the enforcement of this chapter.
(1988 Code § 10-1-7)
6-6-4: REMOVAL FROM PUBLIC PROPERTY:
When graffiti is found on any public property, the town will be responsible for
its removal and/or abatement within ten (10) working days of notice to the town
of its presence. (1988 Code § 10-1-7; amd. 2004 Code)
6-6-5: SALES OF CERTAIN PRODUCTS TO UNDERAGE PERSONS:
No person shall knowingly sell or offer for sale, deliver or provide, or give
to any person under eighteen (18) years of age, nor shall any person under the
age of eighteen (18) years purchase, accept or be in possession of any vapor
releasing substances that contain a toxic substance, unless he or she is under
the direct supervision of an adult. (1988 Code § 10-1-7)
CHAPTER 7
LOST, UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
SECTION:
6-7-1: Police Department Serve As Custodian Of Property
6-7-2: Period For Holding; Notice To Owner
6-7-3: Recovery Of Property
6-7-4: Disposition Of Property
6-7-5: Provisions Not Applicable To Abandoned Property
6-7-1: POLICE DEPARTMENT SERVE AS CUSTODIAN OF PROPERTY:
All property used as evidence by the town in court and remaining unclaimed
after final disposition of the case in which it was used, all property seized
by a peace officer as being used unlawfully or for an unlawful purpose, and all
property coming into the hands of any town officer or employee as lost or
unclaimed shall be delivered to the police department for safekeeping. The
police department shall make every effort to ascertain and contact the owner of
any such property, money or currency regarding its disposition, except owners
as specified in subsection
6-7-3D of this chapter. (1988 Code § 3-5-1)
6-7-2: PERIOD FOR HOLDING; NOTICE TO OWNER:
The town will hold such property, money or currency for a period of ninety (90)
days from the date it was delivered to the police department and shall, if
possible, notify the owner of the deadline for making his claim. (1988 Code §
3-5-1)
6-7-3: RECOVERY OF PROPERTY:
   A.   Recovery By Owner:
      1.   If the owner appears within ninety (90) days after receipt of the
property by the police department, proves his ownership of the property and
pays all reasonable charges, the police department shall restore the property
to him.
      2.   The police department may require payment by the owner of a
reasonable charge to defray costs of storage and care of the property prior to
restoring the property to the owner. The police department shall establish a
written policy regarding costs of such storage and care. (1988 Code § 3-5-2)
   B.   Recovery By Finder:
      1.   Value Of Fifty Dollars Or More:
         a.   If the value of the property is fifty dollars ($50.00) or more,
and no owner appears and proves his ownership of the property within ninety
(90) days, the police department shall cause notice of the property to be
published at least once in a newspaper of general circulation in the town.
(1988 Code § 3-5-3; amd. 2004 Code)
         b.   If, after seven (7) days following the first publication of the
notice, no owner appears and proves his ownership of the property, and the
person who found or saved his property pays the costs of publication, the title
shall vest in the person who found or saved the property, unless the property
was found in the course of employment by an employee of any public agency; in
which case, the property shall be sold at public auction.
         c.   Title to the property shall not vest in the person who found or
saved the property unless the costs of publication and handling are first paid
to the town.
      2.   Value Less Than Fifty Dollars: If the reported value of the property
is less than fifty dollars ($50.00), and no owner appears and proves his
ownership of the property within six (6) months, the title shall vest in the
person who found or saved the property, unless the property was found in the
course of employment by an employee of any public agency; in which case, the
property shall be sold at public auction as provided for herein.
   C.   Time Limit To Claim: If the owner thereof has not claimed and taken
away such property, money or currency within ninety (90) days and after
publication as provided herein, the finder shall have thirty (30) days within
which to claim and take away the property, money or currency.
   D.   Restrictions On Recovery: Property, money or currency shall not be
returned to an owner or finder if such person is a prohibited possessor of such
property, money or currency. (1988 Code § 3-5-3)
6-7-4: DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY:
   A.   Donated To Town: If neither the owner nor finder claims and takes away
the property, money or currency within the time periods specified herein, the
owner or finder shall be conclusively presumed to have made an unconditional
donation of said property, money or currency to the town, and the initial
receipt by the town of said property, money or currency into its possession
shall constitute a receipt of a donation. (1988 Code § 3-5-4)
   B.   Use By Town: If any property referred to in section
6-7-1 of this chapter, except money or currency, shall not be claimed and taken
away within the time period specified in section
6-7-2 of this chapter, the chief of police, or such officer as he directs,
shall deliver a complete itemized list or inventory of such property to the
purchasing officer, who shall ascertain whether any department of the town
desires to utilize any of such property for town purposes, and shall deliver to
the head of any department any property requested by him in writing and
approved by the town manager.
   C.   Money Or Currency: Money or currency shall be delivered to the director
of financial services to be deposited in the general fund of the town.
   D.   Public Sale:
      1.   Property Sold: All remaining property, except money or currency, not
desired by any town department shall be disposed of by the purchasing officer
at public auction. (1988 Code § 3-5-5)
      2.   Notice Of Sale: Notice of public auction under this chapter shall be
given pursuant to Arizona Revised Statutes section 39-204, the first notice to
be at least eighteen (18) days prior to the date of sale. (1988 Code § 3-5-6)
      3.   Conduct Of Sale: After notice has been given as provided herein, the
property shall be sold at public auction to be at such time and at such place
as designated in the notice, and it shall be conducted under the direction of
the purchasing officer. (1988 Code § 3-5-8)
      4.   Receipt And Certificate Of Purchase; Disposition Of Proceeds: The
purchasing officer shall issue a receipt and certificate of purchase to the
highest bidder, and the proceeds of the sale shall be delivered to the director
of financial services to be deposited in the general fund of the town. (1988
Code § 3-5-9)
   E.   Disposal Of Property Exempt From Public Sale: The following property
shall be exempt from auction and disposed as follows:
      1.   Unlawful property and illegal contraband shall be destroyed.
      2.   Alcohol and alcoholic beverages, either open or in sealed
containers, shall be destroyed.
      3.   Property which is without value in the opinion of the purchasing
officer shall be destroyed or discarded.
      4.   Any other property may be donated to nonprofit charitable
organizations pursuant to council action. (1988 Code § 3-5-7)
   F.   Perishable Goods: The purchasing officer may sell property by public
auction or in any other reasonable manner if it is a thing which is commonly
the subject of sale and when the owner cannot, with reasonable diligence, be
found or, being found, refuses, upon demand, to pay lawful charges provided by
subsection
6-7-3B of this chapter, when the thing is in danger of perishing or of losing
the greater part of its value. Notice shall be published at least once in a
newspaper of general circulation in the town not less than one day prior to
sale. (1988 Code § 3-5-10; amd. 2004 Code)
6-7-5: PROVISIONS NOT APPLICABLE TO ABANDONED PROPERTY:
The provisions of this chapter have no application to things which have been
intentionally abandoned by their owner. (1988 Code § 3-5-11)
TITLE 7
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS; DRIVING RULES 1
SECTION:
7-1-1: Obedience To Traffic Regulations
7-1-2: Traffic Control Signs, Signals And Markings
7-1-3: Accidents
7-1-4: Speed Limits
7-1-5: One-Way Streets And Alleys
7-1-6: Through Streets; Stop And Yield Intersections
7-1-7: U-Turns
7-1-8: Funeral And Other Processions
7-1-9: Toy Vehicles
7-1-10: Motorized Skateboards And Motorized Play Vehicles
7-1-11: Use Of Mobile Communication Devices And Texting While Operating A Motor
Vehicle
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 9-240, subsection B3; §§ 28-626, 28-627.
7-1-1: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
It is unlawful, except as otherwise provided in this Code, for any person to do
any act forbidden or fail to perform any act required by this title or to
wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of the
police or of any Fire Department official. (1988 Code § 12-2-2)
7-1-2: TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS 1 :
   A.   Traffic Control Devices:
      1.   Placement Of Signs And Signals: The Police Chief, with the approval
of the Council, shall place and maintain traffic control devices, signs and
signals when and as required under this title to make effective the provisions
of this title, and may place and maintain such additional traffic control
devices as he may deem necessary to regulate traffic under this title or under
State law or to guide or warn traffic.
      2.   Obedience Required: The driver of any vehicle shall obey the
instructions of any official traffic control device applicable thereto placed
in accordance with this title unless otherwise directed by the police, subject
to the exceptions granted in this title or by State law. (1988 Code § 12-2-4)
   B.   Authority To Designate Crosswalks, Establish Safety Zones And Mark
Traffic Lanes:
      1.   The Police Chief is hereby authorized, on approval by the Council:
         a.   Crosswalks: To designate and maintain, by appropriate devices,
marks or lines upon the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections
where, in his opinion, there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the
roadway and at such other places as he may deem necessary.
         b.   Safety Zones: To establish safety zones of such kind and
character and at such places as he may deem necessary for the protection of
pedestrians.
         c.   Traffic Lanes: To mark lanes for traffic on street pavement at
such places as he may deem advisable, consistent with this title.
      2.   The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to school
crosswalks and school zones. (1988 Code § 12-2-5)
   C.   Turning Markers:
      1.   Authority To Place: The Police Chief is authorized to place markers,
buttons or signs within or adjacent to intersections indicating the course to
be traveled by vehicles turning at such intersections, and such course to be
traveled as so indicated may conform to or be other than as prescribed by law.
      2.   Obedience Required: When authorized markers, buttons or other
indicators are placed within an intersection indicating the course to be
traveled by vehicles turning thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
directions of such indicators. (1988 Code § 12-2-6)
   D.   Restricted Turn Signs:
      1.   Authority To Place: The Police Chief, on approval by the Council, is
hereby authorized to determine those intersections at which drivers of vehicles
shall not make a right turn, left turn or U-turn and shall place proper signs
at such intersections. The making of such turns may be prohibited between
certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours, in which event, the same
shall be plainly indicated on the signs, or such signs may be removed when such
turns are permitted.
      2.   Obedience Required: Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating
that no right turn or left turn or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle
shall disobey the directions of any such sign. (1988 Code § 12-2-7)
   E.   Obedience To Signs; Corner Cutting Prohibited: Whenever traffic signs
are erected as provided in this title, every driver of a vehicle shall obey
such signs unless directed to proceed by the police or a traffic control
signal. No driver shall drive upon or through any private property such as an
oil station, vacant lot or similar property to avoid obedience to any
regulation included in this title. (1988 Code § 12-2-11)
 
Notes
1 2. ARS § 28-641 et seq.
7-1-3: ACCIDENTS 1 :
   A.   Investigation Of Accidents; Arrest And Prosecution: It shall be the
duty of the police to investigate traffic accidents and to arrest and assist in
the prosecution of those persons charged with violations of law causing or
contributing to such accidents. (1988 Code § 12-1-4)
   B.   Accident Studies: Whenever the accidents at any particular location
become numerous, the police chief shall conduct studies of such accidents and
determine remedial measures. (1988 Code § 12-1-5)
   C.   Reports Of Accidents:
      1.   The police chief shall maintain a suitable system of filing traffic
accident reports.
      2.   The police chief shall receive and properly file all accident
reports made to him under state law or under any law of the town. All such
accident reports made by drivers shall be for the confidential use of the town.
No such report shall be admissible in any civil or criminal proceeding other
than upon request of any person making such report or upon request of the court
having jurisdiction, to prove compliance with the laws requiring the making of
any such report. (1988 Code § 12-1-6)
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 28-661 et seq.
7-1-4: SPEED LIMITS 1 :
   A.   General Speed Limit: On every public street of the town, except state
or county highways where the posted speed limit is different and those streets
designated by resolution of the council as having other speed limits, any speed
in excess of twenty five (25) miles per hour shall be prima facie evidence that
the speed is not reasonable and is a civil traffic violation.
   B.   Speed Limit Near Schools: Any speed in excess of fifteen (15) miles per
hour on any street adjacent to a public school located within the town limits
shall be prima facie evidence that the speed is not reasonable and is a civil
traffic violation. This subsection shall be in force from seven o'clock (7:00)
A.M. to four o'clock (4:00) P.M. on days school is in session. (1988 Code § 12-
2-13)
 
Notes
1 2. ARS § 28-701 et seq.
7-1-5: ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS:
The council shall by resolution designate any streets or alleys which are to be
limited to one-way traffic. When any resolution of the council designates any
one-way street or alley, the police chief shall place and maintain signs giving
notice thereof, and no such regulation shall be effective unless such signs are
in place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be
placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite
direction is prohibited. (1988 Code § 12-2-9)
7-1-6: THROUGH STREETS; STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS:
The council shall by resolution designate through streets, intersections where
stops are required, and intersections where vehicles shall yield the right of
way. When any resolution of the council shall designate any through street or
intersection where vehicles are to stop or yield the right of way, the police
chief shall erect and maintain the appropriate signs at every location where a
vehicle must stop or yield the right of way. (1988 Code § 12-2-10)
7-1-7: U-TURNS:
The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction upon any street in a business district and shall not, upon
any other street, so turn a vehicle unless such movement can be made in safety
and without interfering with other traffic. (1988 Code § 12-2-8)
7-1-8: FUNERAL AND OTHER PROCESSIONS 1 :
   A.   Identification Of Vehicles In Funeral Procession: A funeral procession
composed of a procession of vehicles shall be identified by such methods as may
be determined and designated by the police chief.
   B.   Driving Through Procession: No driver of a vehicle shall drive between
the vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized procession while they are
in motion and when such vehicles are conspicuously designated. This subsection
shall not apply at intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic control
signals or the police.
   C.   Drivers In A Procession: Each driver in a funeral or other procession
shall drive as near to the right hand edge of the roadway as practical and
shall follow the vehicle ahead as close as is practical and safe. (1988 Code §
12-2-12)
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 28-776; see also chapter 3 of this title.
7-1-9: TOY VEHICLES:
No person upon roller skates or riding any coaster, skateboard, toy vehicle or
similar device shall go upon any roadway, except while crossing a street on a
crosswalk, and when crossing, such person shall be granted all of the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians. (1988 Code
§ 12-2-3)
7-1-10: MOTORIZED SKATEBOARDS AND MOTORIZED PLAY VEHICLES:
   A.   Definitions:
    MOTORIZED PLAY VEHICLES: A coaster, scooter, any other alternatively fueled
device or vehicle, or other motorized vehicle that is self-propelled by a motor
or engine, gas or electric, and which is not otherwise defined in Arizona
Revised Statutes, title 28, as a "motor vehicle", "motorcycle", "motor driven
cycle", "motorized wheelchair" or "electric personal assistive mobility
device".
   MOTORIZED SKATEBOARDS: A self-propelled device that has a motor, gas or
electric, a deck on which a person may ride and at least two (2) tandem wheels
in contact with the ground, and which is not otherwise defined in Arizona
Revised Statutes, title 28, as a "motor vehicle", "motorcycle", "motor driven
cycle", "motorized wheelchair" or "electric personal assistive mobility
device".
   B.   Obedience To Traffic Laws:
      1.   Except as to those provisions of law which by their nature can have
no application, any person operating a motorized skateboard or motorized play
vehicle on a roadway or on any shoulder adjoining a roadway shall be granted
all the rights and shall be subject to all the duties applicable to the driver
of a vehicle by both:
         a.   The laws of this state declaring the rules of the road applicable
to a vehicle; and
         b.   The traffic laws of the town applicable to the driver of a
vehicle.
      2.   This section shall not be construed to require the licensing or
registration of motorized skateboards, the licensing of motorized skateboard or
motorized play vehicle operators or the carrying of insurance covering
accidents involving motorized skateboards or motorized play vehicles.
   C.   Responsibilities Of Parents, Guardians, And Custodians:
      1.   The parent, guardian, or legal custodian of any minor or ward shall
not authorize or knowingly permit such minor or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this section.
      2.   No minor shall operate a motorized skateboard or motorized play
vehicle on any town right of way, including streets, roadways, and alleyways,
unless the minor possesses at all times while operating the motorized
skateboard or motorized play vehicle a written consent of the minor's parent or
legal guardian. The written consent shall be signed by the parent or legal
guardian, whose signature shall be notarized and shall contain the following:
         a.   The name and date of birth of the minor.
         b.   The residence address of the minor and parent/guardian.
         c.   The residence and work telephone of the parent/guardian.
         d.   The following statement:
I am the parent/guardian of the minor named herein and hereby authorize said
minor to operate a motorized skateboard or motorized play vehicle in the Town
of Parker. I have read and discussed with said minor the applicable laws of the
State of Arizona and of this Town regarding the operation of motorized
skateboards and motorized play vehicles and have assured myself that said minor
understands these regulations.
   D.   Operation Prohibited In Certain Areas And At Certain Times:
      1.   No person shall operate a motorized skateboard or motorized play
vehicle on any sidewalk except for use in crossing such sidewalk to gain access
to any public or private road or driveway.
      2.   No person shall operate a motorized skateboard or motorized play
vehicle in any town parking structure or city park, except for use in public
roadways within such park on which a motorized skateboard or motorized play
vehicle is otherwise allowed.
      3.   No person shall operate a motorized skateboard or motorized play
vehicle on any public property that has been posted or designated by the owner
of such property as an area in which the operation of motorized skateboards or
motorized play vehicle is prohibited.
      4.   No person shall operate a motorized skateboard or motorized play
vehicle on any private property of another, or any public property which is not
held open to the public for vehicle use without the written permission of the
owner, or the owner's authorized agent.
      5.   No person shall operate a motorized skateboard or motorized play
vehicle on any public roadway having a speed limit established greater than
twenty five (25) miles per hour.
      6.   No person shall operate a motorized skateboard or motorized play
vehicle on a town right of way, including streets, roadways, and alleyways,
except during daylight.
   E.   General Operating Restrictions:
      1.   No child under the age of sixteen (16) shall operate a motorized
skateboard or motorized play vehicle.
      2.   No person shall operate a motorized skateboard or motorized play
vehicle in excess of the posted speed limit or at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the circumstances then existing.
      3.   A person operating a motorized skateboard or motorized play vehicle,
approaching a sidewalk, bicycle path, bicycle lane, or multiuse path in order
to cross such, shall yield the right of way to all other users.
      4.   No person operating a motorized skateboard or motorized play vehicle
shall allow passengers when the motorized skateboard or motorized play vehicle
is in operation or motion.
      5.   No person operating or riding upon a motorized skateboard or
motorized play vehicle shall attach themselves or the motorized skateboard or
motorized play vehicle in any manner to any other vehicle.
      6.   No person shall operate a motorized skateboard or motorized play
vehicle while carrying any package, bundle, or article which prevents the
operator from keeping both hands upon the steering mechanism at all times.
      7.   No person operating a motorized skateboard or motorized play vehicle
shall transport extra fuel in a separate container or alter the fuel reservoir
from the original manufacturer's design. This includes the prohibition of
physically attaching fuel packs or containers to the operator's person.
      8.   No person shall operate a motorized play vehicle in a manner causing
excessive, unnecessary, or offensive noise which disturbs the peace and quiet
of any neighborhood or which causes the discomfort or annoyance to a reasonable
person of normal sensitivity.
      9.   No person shall operate a motorized skateboard or motorized play
vehicle that has been structurally altered from the original manufacturer's
design, including, but not limited to, the alteration or removal of any
muffler.
   F.   Required Safety Equipment:
      1.   No person shall operate a motorized skateboard or motorized play
vehicle at any time when there is not sufficient light to render clearly
discernible persons and vehicles at a distance of five hundred feet (500')
ahead.
      2.   No person shall operate a motorized skateboard or motorized play
vehicle unless it is equipped with a brake, which enables the operator to make
a braked wheel(s) skid on pavement.
      3.   A person under the age of eighteen (18) years operating a motorized
skateboard or motorized play vehicle on a roadway shall at all times wear a
protective helmet on his or her head in an appropriate and safely secured
manner. The helmet shall meet minimum standards of testing and safety
inspection type approved for bicycle use.
      4.   No person shall operate a motorized skateboard or motorized play
vehicle without wearing footwear. The footwear must have a sole and completely
cover the feet and toes.
      5.   A person operating a motorized skateboard or motorized play vehicle
shall wear, at all times, protective glasses or goggles or a transparent face
shield of a type approved for motorcycle or motor driven cycle use.
   G.   Merchant's Disclosure Requirements:
      1.   It is unlawful for a merchant to sell motorized skateboards or
motorized play vehicles without making the disclosures required by this
section.
      2.   Any merchant who sells motorized skateboards or motorized play
vehicles within the Town limits of Parker shall:
         a.   Post, in a prominent place at each location where motorized
skateboards or motorized play vehicles are on display, a notice stating the
following:
Operation of motorized skateboards or motorized play vehicles is regulated by
the Parker Town Code, Section
7-1-10.
         b.   Provide a copy of such notice and a copy of this section to each
purchaser of a motorized skateboard or motorized play vehicle, either before or
in connection with the purchase.
   H.   Providing Penalties For Violations Thereof:
      1.   Any person or entity that violates any provisions of this section is
subject to a civil sanction pursuant to Arizona Revised Statutes title 28-626,
or any successor, unless a code section defining a specific penalty to an
offense provides otherwise.
      2.   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be
guilty of a civil offense, which shall be punishable by a minimum civil
sanction of seventy five dollars ($75.00), plus any penalty assessments
prescribed by this chapter. If a person is convicted of a second violation of
this section within a period of twelve (12) months, the minimum civil sanction
shall be a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00), plus any penalty assessments
prescribed by this chapter. If a person is convicted of a third or subsequent
violation of this section within a period of twelve (12) months, the minimum
civil sanction shall be a fine of one hundred twenty five dollars ($125.00),
plus any penalty assessments prescribed by this chapter. The maximum civil
sanction, which may be imposed under this section, shall be five hundred
dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 04-2005, 9-6-2005)
7-1-11: USE OF MOBILE COMMUNICATION DEVICES AND TEXTING WHILE OPERATING A MOTOR
VEHICLE:
   A.   Definitions:
   HANDS-FREE USE: Means the use of a mobile communication device without the
use of either hand.
   MOBILE COMMUNICATION DEVICE: Means a wireless communication device that is
designed to engage in calls, and/or receive and transmit text, images, and/or
data.
   OPERATING A MOTOR VEHICLE: Means being in actual physical control of a motor
vehicle on a highway or street and includes being temporarily stopped because
of traffic, a traffic control device or otherwise, but excludes operating a
motor vehicle when the vehicle has pulled over to the side of the road or off a
roadway and has stopped at a location in which the vehicle can safely remain
stationary.
   B.   Prohibited Use: No person shall, except as otherwise provided in this
section, use a mobile communication device while operating a motor vehicle upon
a street or highway, unless that device is specifically designed or configured
to allow hands-free use and is used in that manner while operating a motor
vehicle. A law enforcement officer may stop a motor vehicle or motor driven
cycle if the officer has reasonable suspicion to believe a violation of this
section is occurring.
   C.   Exemptions: This section shall not apply to:
      1.   The use of a mobile communication device for the sole purpose of
communicating with any of the following regarding an immediate emergency
situation, safety hazard or criminal activity:
         a.   An emergency response operator.
         b.   An ambulance company.
         c.   Fire Department and rescue service personnel.
         d.   Law enforcement personnel.
         e.   A hospital.
         f.   A physician's office or health clinic.
      2.   The activation, initiation or deactivation of hands-free use while
operating a motor vehicle.
      3.   The use of a mobile communication device by law enforcement, public
safety personnel and persons operating authorized emergency vehicles while
performing official public safety duties.
      4.   The use of a mobile communication device while driving on private
property.
      5.   A person driving a school bus or transit vehicle that is subject to
Arizona Revised Statutes or United States Department of Transportation
regulations.
   D.   Affirmative Defense: It is an affirmative defense to a violation of
this section if the driver was not operating the vehicle in a careless manner
and was:
      1.   A driver: a) using a two-way radio or a private Land Mobile Radio
System, within the meaning of title 47 Code of Federal Regulations part 90,
while in the performance and scope of work- related duties and b) who is
operating fleet vehicles or who possesses a commercial vehicle license; or
      2.   A driver holding a valid amateur radio operator license issued by
the Federal Communications Commission and using a half-duplex two-way radio.
   E.   Penalties: In addition to all other penalties authorized under this
Code, a person found to be in violation of this section is subject to a base
civil penalty of ninety seven dollars ($97.00) in addition to all other
penalties or assessments authorized by law. A person found to be in violation
of this section and involved in a motor vehicle accident is subject to a base
civil penalty of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), in addition to any other
penalties or assessments authorized by law. (Ord. 01-2019, 1-15-2019, eff. 2-1-
2019)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING REGULATIONS 1
SECTION:
7-2-1: Application Of Provisions
7-2-2: Determination Of Parking Restrictions; Signs Posted
7-2-3: Method Of Parking
7-2-4: No Parking Places
7-2-5: General Parking Restrictions
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 28-871 et seq. and § 28-881 et seq.
7-2-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter prohibiting the standing or parking of a vehicle
shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as indicated on
official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
official traffic control device. The provisions of this chapter imposing a time
limit on parking shall not relieve any person from the duty to observe other
and more restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping, standing
or parking of vehicles in specified places or at specified times. (Ord. 1-2000,
3-7-2000)
7-2-2: DETERMINATION OF PARKING RESTRICTIONS; SIGNS POSTED:
The police chief shall determine and designate by appropriate signs or markings
any parking time limit and any other limits, restrictions or regulations
applicable to parking, standing, stopping, driving or riding on any publicly
owned property, or any other property owned or controlled by the town. (Ord. 1-
2000, 3-7-2000)
7-2-3: METHOD OF PARKING:
   A.   Parallel Parking: No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway
other than parallel with the edge of roadway headed in the direction of lawful
traffic movement and with the right hand wheels within eighteen inches (18") of
the curb or edge of the roadway, except where angle or diagonal parking is
required.
   B.   Angle Parking: In the case of angle or diagonal parking, no person
shall stand or park a vehicle other than with the front of such vehicle
directed toward the front of the curb of such angle or diagonal parking space.
The mayor and council shall determine upon what streets angle parking shall be
permitted and shall mark or sign such streets. (Ord. 1-2000, 3-7-2000)
7-2-4: NO PARKING PLACES:
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the directions of a
police officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
   A.   On a sidewalk or parkway.
   B.   In front of a public or private driveway or within three feet (3')
thereof; except that this subsection does not apply to a vehicle or the driver
of a vehicle engaged in the official delivery of the United States mail if both
of the following apply:
      1.   The driver does not leave the vehicle.
      2.   The vehicle is stopped only momentarily.
   C.   Within an intersection.
   D.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
   E.   On a crosswalk.
   F.   In front of or within ten feet (10') of a mailbox.
   G.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection.
   H.   Within thirty feet (30') on the approach to any flashing beacon, stop
sign, yield sign or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway.
   I.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet (30')
of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless
the town indicates a different length by signs or markings.
   J.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail or a railroad crossing or
within eight feet six inches (8'6") of the center of any railroad track, except
while a motor vehicle with motive power attached is loading or unloading
railroad cars.
   K.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to a fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within
seventy five feet (75') of the entrance when properly posted.
   L.   Alongside or opposite a street excavation or obstruction when stopping,
standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
   M.   On the roadway side of a vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb
of a street.
   N.   On a bridge or other elevated structure on a highway or within a
highway tunnel.
   O.   At any place where official signs prohibit standing or stopping.
   P.   On a controlled access highway except for emergency reasons or except
in areas specifically designated for parking such as rest areas.
   Q.   To obstruct or impede traffic in any manner. (Ord. 1-2000, 3-7-2000;
amd. 2004 Code)
   R.   On the roadway currently designated California Avenue and all roadways
intersecting with California Avenue, within seventy five feet (75') of any
intersection of any roadway intersecting with California Avenue, for the entire
length of California Avenue. (Ord. 04-2008, 6-2-2008)
7-2-5: GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Prohibited Parking Unless Posted: Parking on town streets, roadways,
alleys, or thoroughfares is prohibited except where clearly marked otherwise.
(2004 Code)
   B.   Fire Lanes: No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle within or
upon a designated fire lane, whether on public or private property; provided,
however, that appropriate signs or other markings, as shall be approved or
designated by the fire chief, shall be posted, erected, marked and maintained
in order for this subsection to be effective.
   C.   Parking Areas Reserved For Persons With Disabilities: No person shall
stop, stand or park a vehicle in a parking space set aside and identified for
use only by persons with physical disabilities, unless the vehicle is
transporting a person who has been issued a valid placard or international
symbol of access special plates. The public works director shall designate and
mark vehicle parking places for the exclusive use of persons with physical
disabilities, and such spaces shall be posted, erected, marked and maintained
in order for this subsection to be effective.
   D.   Alleys: No person shall stand or park a vehicle in an alley at any time
except for the loading of materials, and not then unless such loading or
unloading can be accomplished without blocking the alley to the free movement
of traffic or interfering with or obstructing the operation of a fire escape,
and not take over forty (40) minutes' total time.
   E.   Adjacent To Schools: When signs are erected indicating no parking on
that side of the street adjacent to any school property, no person shall park a
vehicle in any such designated place for one hour before school opens until one
hour after school closes on any school day.
   F.   Repair Of Vehicles: No person shall use any street or part of street,
or any publicly owned property, for the purpose of repairing or reconditioning
any vehicle, truck, trailer or any common carrier or any part thereof except
when such repairs shall be necessitated by an emergency. (Ord. 1-2000, 3-7-
2000)
   G.   Time Limit Parking: Parking for longer than thirty six (36) hours in
any forty eight (48) hour period in any designated parking area is prohibited.
   H.   Vehicles Not Licensed For Highway Use: Parking vehicles not licensed
for highway use anywhere on town property without the express consent of the
town is prohibited. "Vehicles licensed for highway use" shall not include
trailers, mobile homes, travel trailers, fifth wheels, park model homes or any
other residential structures capable of being pulled by a motor vehicle.
   I.   Penalties: A person found responsible for a violation of subsection A
or G of this section during one calendar day shall be fined twenty dollars
($20.00). A person found responsible for a violation of subsection A or G of
this section during two (2) consecutive calendar days shall be fined fifty
dollars ($50.00). A person found responsible for a violation of subsection A or
G of this section during three (3) consecutive calendar days shall be fined one
hundred dollars ($100.00). The fine shall increase an additional one hundred
dollars ($100.00) per day for each calendar day thereafter. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 3
PARADES AND PROCESSIONS 1
SECTION:
7-3-1: Permit Required
7-3-2: Application For Permit
7-3-3: Time For Action On Application; Disapproval
7-3-4: Standards For Issuance Of Permit
7-3-5: Contents Of Permit
7-3-6: Appeal On Denial Of Permit
7-3-7: Alternate Schedule Or Route
7-3-8: Parking On Parade Route
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 28-626, subsection B3.
7-3-1: PERMIT REQUIRED 1 :
No person shall engage in, participate in, aid, form or start any parade or
assembly unless a parade permit shall have been obtained from the chief of
police thirty (30) days prior to any parade or procession. This section shall
not apply to funeral processions 2 . (1988 Code § 12-4-1; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. See also subsection 6-3-5C of this code.
2 3. See section
  7-1-8 of this title for funeral processions and additional provisions.
7-3-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
All permit applications shall contain the name of the applicant, sponsoring
organization, if any, the parade, assembly or program chairman and the address
and phone numbers of each. Said application shall also state the purpose of the
parade, assembly or program, the date when it is proposed to be conducted, the
location of the parade, assembly or program area, the route to be traveled,
whether the parade will occupy all or only a portion of the width of the street
proposed to be traveled and the approximate time when the parade, assembly or
program will assemble and terminate. Further, all applications shall provide
such other information as the chief of police may deem necessary in order to
properly carry out traffic control and police functions. (1988 Code § 12-4-1)
7-3-3: TIME FOR ACTION ON APPLICATION; DISAPPROVAL:
The chief of police shall act upon the application for a parade permit within
ten (10) days after the filing thereof. If the chief disapproves the
application, a notice shall be mailed to the applicant within fifteen (15) days
after the date upon which the application was filed stating the reason for
denial of the permit. (1988 Code § 12-4-2)
7-3-4: STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
The chief of police may issue a permit to use or occupy town streets
conditioned upon the applicant's written agreement to comply with the terms of
such permit, unless the chief of police finds that said parade, assembly or
program will:
   A.   Disrupt, to an unreasonable extent, the movement of other traffic.
   B.   Require the diversion of so great a number of police officers of the
town to properly police the line movement in the areas contiguous thereto, that
allowing the parade, assembly or program would deny reasonable police
protection to the town.
   C.   Interfere with another parade, assembly or program for which a permit
has previously been issued. (1988 Code § 12-4-3)
7-3-5: CONTENTS OF PERMIT:
In each permit, the chief of police shall specify:
   A.   The assembly area and time therefor.
   B.   The starting time.
   C.   The minimum and maximum speeds of vehicles in any parade or procession.
   D.   The route of any parade or procession and what portions of streets are
to be traversed or occupied by such parade, assembly or program.
   E.   The disbanding area and disbanding time.
   F.   The number of persons required to monitor the parade or motorcade.
   G.   Such other requirements as are found by the chief of police to be
reasonably necessary for the protection of persons or property. (1988 Code §
12-4-4)
7-3-6: APPEAL ON DENIAL OF PERMIT:
Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the council. The appeal shall be taken within ten (10) days after
notice of disapproval is received by the applicant from the chief of police.
The council shall act upon the appeal within ten (10) working days following
receipt thereof. (1988 Code § 12-4-6)
7-3-7: ALTERNATE SCHEDULE OR ROUTE:
The chief of police, in denying an application for a parade permit, may
authorize the conduct of the parade on a date, at a time or over a route
different from that requested by the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept
an alternate permit shall, within five (5) days after notice of the alternate
route, file written notice of acceptance with the chief of police. (1988 Code §
12-4-7)
7-3-8: PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE:
The chief of police may prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a
highway or part thereof constituting a part of the parade route and may post
signs to such effect. It is unlawful for any person to park or leave unattended
any vehicle in violation thereof. (1988 Code § 12-4-5)
CHAPTER 4
INOPERABLE, UNREGISTERED VEHICLES 1
SECTION:
7-4-1: Definition
7-4-2: Parking Inoperable Or Unregistered Vehicles Restricted
7-4-3: Responsibility Of Property Owner
7-4-4: Appeals
7-4-5: Exemptions From Provisions
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 28-4833.
7-4-1: DEFINITION:
An "inoperable vehicle" is any vehicle that is not readily able to be operated
in the manner for which the vehicle was designed. (2004 Code)
7-4-2: PARKING INOPERABLE OR UNREGISTERED VEHICLES RESTRICTED:
   A.   Inoperable Vehicle:
      1.   No person shall park or permit to be parked on any property any
vehicle which is inoperable and is visible from beyond the boundary of the lot.
(1988 Code § 10-1-17)
      2.   Parking inoperable vehicles on town property without the express
consent of the town is prohibited. A person found responsible for a violation
of this subsection A2 during one calendar day shall be fined fifty dollars
($50.00) A person found responsible for a violation of this subsection A2
during two (2) consecutive calendar days shall be fined one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00). A person found responsible for a violation of this
subsection A2 during three (3) consecutive calendar days shall be fined three
hundred dollars ($300.00). The fine shall increase an additional one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00) per day for each calendar day thereafter. These fines
are in addition to any remedies available to the town pursuant to Arizona
Revised Statutes title 28, chapter 11. It is an affirmative defense to a
violation of this subsection A2 that the vehicle was inoperable for less than
two (2) hours. (2004 Code)
   B.   Unregistered Vehicle: No person shall park or permit to be parked on
any lot any vehicle which does not display current registration and is visible
from beyond the boundary of the lot. This subsection shall not apply to
operable "off road recreational motor vehicles" designed primarily for
recreational, nonhighway, all terrain travel. (1988 Code § 10-1-17)
7-4-3: RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNER:
The owner of record, as recorded in the county assessor's tract book records,
of the property upon which a vehicle is parked in violation of subsection
7-4-2A or B of this chapter shall be prima facie responsible for any violation
of this chapter. If more than one person shall be recorded as the owner of the
property, said persons shall be jointly and severally responsible. (1988 Code §
10-1-17)
7-4-4: APPEALS:
Prior to the date set for compliance on the notice, the owner of record of the
property may appeal in writing to the board of adjustment from the demand of
the town manager or his designee. The board of adjustment shall, after
receiving the appeal, hear and determine the same, and the decision of the
board of adjustment shall be final. The board of adjustment may either affirm
or reverse the decision of the town manager or his designee or modify the scope
of the work as required in the notice. (1988 Code § 10-1-17; amd. 2004 Code)
7-4-5: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
The following exemptions and exceptions shall apply to this chapter:
   A.   A person or firm licensed by the Arizona department of transportation,
and property which is zoned for such activity is exempted from this chapter.
   B.   A vehicle registered to a resident of the property when the vehicle is
undergoing repair; provided, that the total period during which the vehicle is
inoperable does not exceed thirty (30) days. (1988 Code § 10-1-17)
   C.   A vehicle placed on the property without the consent of any owner or
agent of any owner of the property; provided, that the vehicle is removed from
the property within ten (10) days of written notice of its presence on the
property. (1988 Code § 10-1-17; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 5
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT 1
SECTION:
7-5-1: Enforcement Duties Of Police
7-5-2: Authority To Direct Traffic
7-5-3: Authority To Detain Persons To Serve Traffic Complaint
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 1-4-1B of this code, civil penalty for traffic violations.
7-5-1: ENFORCEMENT DUTIES OF POLICE:
It shall be the duty of the police to provide for the enforcement of the street
traffic regulations of the town and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to
street traffic in the town, to make arrests for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents and to assist in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions, and to carry out all duties specially imposed upon the
police by this chapter. (1988 Code § 12-1-1)
7-5-2: AUTHORITY TO DIRECT TRAFFIC:
   A.   Police Department: The police are hereby authorized to direct all
traffic by voice, hand or signal.
   B.   Fire Department: Officers of the fire department, when at the scene of
a fire, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the
immediate vicinity. (1988 Code § 12-2-1)
7-5-3: AUTHORITY TO DETAIN PERSONS TO SERVE TRAFFIC COMPLAINT:
Any peace officer or duly authorized agent of the town may stop and detain a
person as is reasonably necessary to investigate an actual or suspected
violation of this title, and to serve a copy of the traffic complaint for any
alleged civil or criminal violation of this code. (1988 Code § 12-1-3)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS 1
SECTION:
8-1-1: Maintenance Of Sidewalks And Alleys
8-1-2: Encroachments
8-1-3: Dangerous Signs, Billboards And Awnings
8-1-4: Signs, Vegetation Obstructing Traffic
8-1-5: Excavations; Safety Precautions
8-1-6: Water Flowing Upon Streets
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 9-240, subsection B3.
8-1-1: MAINTENANCE OF SIDEWALKS AND ALLEYS:
It shall be the duty of all persons to keep the sidewalks in front of the
premises owned, occupied or controlled by them and the land that lies between
the back of the curb and the right of way on the side of the street on which
their premises is located in good repair and free and clear of all weeds,
debris, and rubbish. Such persons shall also:
   A.   Keep all vegetation including the branches of all trees growing along
such sidewalks trimmed and cut as not to interfere with the free use of any
part of the sidewalk or street by the public for travel 1 .
   B.   Maintain each alley that is adjacent to their premises free of weeds,
debris, and rubbish to the centerline of such alley 2 . (1988 Code art. 7-11)
 
Notes
1 2. See also subsection 5-1C-1A of this code.
2 3. See also subsection 5-1C-1B of this code, protrusions into alleyways.
8-1-2: ENCROACHMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: It is unlawful for any person to cause or to maintain
any encroachment, encumbrance or obstruction of any public right of way by
encroachment therein with any foundation, wall, fence, post or other structure,
or any cohesive ground surfacing material without having first obtained a
written right of way encroachment permit to do so from the town manager. Such a
permit may be issued upon a finding by the manager that the encroachment
requested and specified by the applicant will not impair necessary public use
or impair access to public facilities, including utilities, located therein,
and that such encroachment is not otherwise prohibited by this code or contrary
to the public convenience.
   B.   Terms Of Permit: Encroachments into public right of way for which a
permit has been issued shall not exceed the terms, conditions, period of time
or extent specified by the permit, and the permit may be revoked at any time by
the town manager. The manager shall not issue such permit until the applicant
shall have executed and delivered to the town an undertaking to hold the town
harmless of and from any liability of any nature resulting from any such
encumbrance or obstruction being located within the right of way, and releasing
the town from any liability for any obligation to maintain the encroachment or
for any damage thereto. The applicant for a permit shall also agree in writing
to remove same and restore the premises to the original condition without
compensation upon request by the town manager.
   C.   Exemptions From Permit: The following encroachments are exempt from the
terms of subsections A and B of this section:
      1.   Authorized traffic control structures and signs.
      2.   Vehicle driveway surfacing properly aligned with curb openings
provided for the purpose.
      3.   Pedestrian walkway surfacing less than five feet (5') wide,
perpendicular to public right of way. (1988 Code art. 7-10)
8-1-3: DANGEROUS SIGNS, BILLBOARDS AND AWNINGS:
It is unlawful for any person to maintain or allow any signs, billboards,
awnings and other similar structures over or near streets, sidewalks, public
grounds or places frequented by the public other than signing authorized and
installed by a government agency. (1988 Code § 10-1-1; amd. 2004 Code)
8-1-4: SIGNS, VEGETATION OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC 1 :
It is unlawful for any person to maintain or allow any tree, hedge, billboard
or other obstruction which prevents persons driving vehicles on public streets,
alleys or highways from obtaining a clear view of traffic when approaching an
intersection or pedestrian crosswalk. (1988 Code § 10-1-8)
 
Notes
  1. See subsection 5-1C-1B of this code for specific limits for vegetation;
1 see section 8-1-3 of this chapter for signs and billboards overhanging public
  ways.
8-1-5: EXCAVATIONS; SAFETY PRECAUTIONS:
   A.   Lights And Barricades: It is unlawful for any person to make any
excavation or dig any hole, drain or ditch in any highway or thoroughfare in
the town without providing a sufficient light at night and a temporary fence or
suitable obstruction around such excavation to protect the public during the
day.
   B.   Certain Excavations To Be Covered: It is unlawful for any person to
maintain a well, cellar, pit or other excavation of more than two feet (2') in
depth on any unenclosed lot, without substantial curbing, covering or
protection. (1988 Code § 10-1-2)
8-1-6: WATER FLOWING UPON STREETS:
It is unlawful for any person to wilfully or negligently permit or cause the
escape or flow of water on the public streets of the town. The town may assess
the cost of repairing damage to the streets caused by the escape or flow of
water as provided in this section to the responsible party. (1988 Code § 10-1-
16; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 2
CONSTRUCTION WITHIN PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY 1
SECTION:
8-2-1: Permit Required
8-2-2: Application For Permit
8-2-3: Bond Requirements
8-2-4: Permit Fee
8-2-5: Limitations On Issuance Of Permit
8-2-6: Violation; Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 9-240, subsection B3.
8-2-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall perform any construction including, but not limited to,
cutting, digging, boring under or in any other way altering the existing
streets, sidewalks, curbs or gutters of any public right of way within the town
without first applying for and obtaining a permit from the public works
director therefor. (1988 Code § 7-7-1; amd. 2004 Code)
8-2-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Application for the permit required pursuant to section
8-2-1 of this chapter shall be made to the public works director on such form
or forms as he shall prescribe and shall set forth in detail all relevant
information regarding the construction activities proposed by the applicant.
(1988 Code § 7-7-1)
8-2-3: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Amount Of Bond: Each such applicant shall submit his application
together with a cash or surety bond for a term of one year in the amount as set
by resolution of the town council per proposed cut, to secure the restoration
of the existing street to its original, preconstruction condition at the
conclusion of the applicant's construction activities. (1988 Code § 7-7-1; amd.
2004 Code)
   B.   Exoneration Of Bond:
      1.   Exoneration of the bond referred to in subsection A of this section
shall be conditioned upon the restoration of the existing pavement as per
standard detail A-1, which detail is herein incorporated by means of this
reference. (1988 Code § 7-7-1)
      2.   The bond provided for herein shall be exonerated by the town upon
the delivery to the director of public works of an inspection report certifying
the restoration of the pavement as per standard detail A-1. In the event that
such certification is not received within one year of the date upon which the
permit was granted, such bond shall be forfeited.
      3.   In the event that any permit holder's failure to timely restore the
pavement as per standard detail A-1 creates a condition or conditions which
threaten the health, safety or welfare of the public, or threaten to cause harm
to underground utility services and/or adjacent paving materials, the director
of public works may, upon seven (7) days' notice to the permit holder, forfeit
the bond and use the bond proceeds to complete the repair to the pavement.
(1988 Code § 7-7-3)
8-2-4: PERMIT FEE:
Each application provided for in this chapter shall be accompanied by a permit
fee in such amount as may be set from time to time pursuant to resolution of
the town council. (1988 Code § 7-7-4)
8-2-5: LIMITATIONS ON ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
   A.   No permit required pursuant to section
8-2-1 of this chapter shall be issued to any person other than a contractor,
duly licensed by the state pursuant to the provisions of Arizona Revised
Statutes title 32, the state of Arizona, a political subdivision of the state
or a federally recognized Indian tribe. (1988 Code § 7-7-2)
   B.   No permit shall be issued for the excavation of newly paved or
resurfaced streets, sidewalks, curbs and or gutters for a period of two (2)
years from the date upon which such work was completed and accepted by the
town. The public works director shall keep and maintain records showing the
date upon which work described in this subsection was accepted by the town for
the purpose of administering this subsection. However, the public works
director may declare an emergency and waive the two (2) year limitation. (1988
Code § 7-7-2; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection B of this section,
construction operations involving boring under a newly paved or resurfaced
street, sidewalk, curb or gutter are authorized, and a permit may issue for
such activities.
   D.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection B of this section, in
cases where existing utility service has been unexpectedly discontinued, such
repairs as are necessary to restore service may be made; provided, that:
      1.   The director of public works is notified the next business day of
the circumstances and location of the emergency repairs;
      2.   A permit is applied for at the same time the director of public
works is notified; and
      3.   Such emergency work is performed pursuant to the standards and
conditions provided for in this chapter. (1988 Code § 7-7-2)
8-2-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Failure to obtain the permit required pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter shall be a violation of this code, punishable as provided for at
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1988 Code § 7-7-4)
CHAPTER 3
WATER REGULATIONS 1
SECTION:
8-3-1: Management Of System
8-3-2: Definitions
8-3-3: Conditions Of Receipt Of Water Service
8-3-4: Deposit Required
8-3-5: Water Taps
8-3-6: Water Meters
8-3-7: Alteration Of Water Connections
8-3-8: Extension Of Water Mains
8-3-9: Bills For Service; Delinquencies
8-3-10: Discontinuance Of Service
8-3-11: Protection Of System
8-3-12: Interruption Of Service
8-3-13: Prohibited Acts
8-3-14: Nonliability Of Town
8-3-15: Regulations Part Of Contract
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 9-240, subsection B6.
8-3-1: MANAGEMENT OF SYSTEM:
The public works director shall have the immediate control and management of
all things pertaining to the town waterworks system and shall cause to be
performed all acts that may be necessary for the prudent, efficient and
economical management and protection of said waterworks. The council shall have
the power to prescribe such other and further rates, rules and regulations as
it may deem necessary. (1988 Code § 13-1-1)
8-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
ADMINISTRATOR: The public works director or his designee.
APPROVED: Accepted by the department as either meeting an applicable
specification stated or cited in this chapter, or suitable for the proposed
use.
AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY: Any water supply on or available to premises other than
the potable water supplied by the town. These auxiliary waters may include, but
shall not be limited to, water from another purveyor's public potable water
supply or any natural sources such as a well, spring, river, stream, harbor, or
treated effluent, wastewaters, or industrial fluids. These waters may be
polluted or contaminated or may be objectionable and constitute an unacceptable
water source over which the department does not have sanitary control.
BACK PRESSURE: Any elevation of pressure in a customer's water supply system
above the pressure of the public potable water supply system which could cause
water or other liquids, mixtures or substances to flow from a customer's water
supply system into the distribution system of the public potable water supply
system.
BACK SIPHONAGE: A reversal of the normal flow of water caused by a reduction of
pressure in the potable water supply system which causes the flow of water or
other liquids, mixtures, or substances from a customer's water supply system
into the distribution system of the public potable water supply system.
BACKFLOW: The reversal of the normal flow of water caused by either back
pressure or back siphonage.
CONTAMINATION: An impairment in the quality of potable water by sewage,
industrial fluids, waste liquids, compounds or other materials or fluids to a
degree which creates an actual hazard to the public health by poisoning or by
the spread of disease.
CONTRACTOR: A person licensed to do work in the state for either a fixed sum,
price, fee, percentage, bonus, or other compensation, other than actual wages,
and who undertakes to or offers to undertake to, or submit a bid to, or does
himself, by or through others, construct, alter, repair, add to, subtract from,
improve, move, wreck or demolish any building, highway, road, railroad,
excavation, or other structure, project, development or improvement, or to do
any part thereof, including the erection of a scaffolding or other structures
or works in connection therewith; and the term "contractor" includes
subcontractors, specialty contractors, developers, and speculative builders.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical connection or other arrangement of piping or
fixtures between a piping system containing potable water and a piping system
containing nonpotable water, waste fluids, industrial fluids, or other fluids
of questionable safety for human consumption through which, or because of
which, backflow may occur into the public potable water system. "Cross
connections" include any temporary connections such as swing connections,
removable sections, four (4) way plug valves, spools, dummy sections of pipe,
swivel or changeover devices or sliding multiport tube.
CUSTOMER WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM: The water distribution facilities within a
customer's premises commencing at the discharge point of the service
connection.
DEPARTMENT: The town water department.
DEPARTMENT HEAD: The public works director or his designee.
DEVELOPER: The person who is responsible for the development of land thereby
creating a demand for domestic water.
DEVELOPMENT: Any improvement for lease or sale which creates demand for
domestic water.
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM: The network of conduits used to deliver potable water from
the source facilities to the customer's water supply system.
DOMESTIC WATER: Water supplied through the pipes of the town water system.
EMERGENCY FIRE SPRINKLER TAP: A water tap maintained by the owner or occupant
of a building or other structure to be used in the event of a fire or other
emergency, and not used in the normal course of use and occupancy of the
building or structure; provided, that no water meter is installed on such tap.
FINANCE DIRECTOR: The director of the finance and budget department (chief
fiscal officer) or her/his duly authorized agent.
FLOOD IRRIGATION SYSTEM: Irrigation system consisting of pipes, gates,
laterals, valves, and berms constructed for the purpose of conveying water to
private property or public places.
FLOOD IRRIGATION WATER: Water supplied to or through a flood irrigation system.
HAZARD, DEGREE OF: An evaluation of the potential risk to the public health and
the adverse effect of the hazard upon the public potable water system.
HOUSE UNDER CONSTRUCTION: When water service is available to such house or
building and shall end when final building inspection is made at the end of the
three (3) month construction period.
INDUSTRIAL FLUID SYSTEM: Any system containing a fluid or solution which is
chemically, biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or
concentration such as would constitute a health, system, pollutional, or
plumbing hazard if introduced into the public potable water system. This may
include, but shall not be limited to, polluted or contaminated waters; all
types of process waters, wastewaters, and used waters originating from the
public potable water system which may have deteriorated in sanitary quality;
chemicals in fluid form, plating acids and alkalines, circulating cooling
waters connected to an open cooling tower and/or cooling towers that are
chemically or biologically treated or stabilized with toxic substances;
contaminated natural waters such as from wells, springs, streams, rivers, bays,
harbors, seas, irrigation canals or systems; or oils, gases, glycerin,
paraffins, caustic and acid solutions; and other liquid and gaseous fluids used
in industrial or other purposes or for firefighting purposes.
NONPOTABLE WATER: Water which is not safe for human consumption or which is of
questionable quality for human consumption.
NOTICE: A written instrument served by the town as follows:
   A.   By the use of ordinary mail to the last known address of the person to
whom it is required to be given; or
   B.   By personal service upon the person or his lawful representative; or
   C.   By filing or recording with a clerk of the superior court or county
recorder.
OWNER/BUILDER: A person who owns or leases real property within the town acting
as a contractor in constructing any improvement upon the real property, which
real property, as improved, is held by such person for his use or for rental
purposes.
POLLUTION: The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic, or
biological) in water which tends to degrade its quality or impair its
usefulness to a degree which does not create an actual hazard to the public
health, but which does adversely and unreasonably affect such water for
domestic use.
POTABLE WATER: Any water which is safe for human consumption pursuant to the
standards set by the Arizona department of environmental quality.
PUBLIC POTABLE WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM: The source facilities and the distribution
system under control of the town to the point where a customer's water supply
system commences. A customer's water supply system commences at the discharge
point of the service connection.
RESIDENTIAL DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms in a dwelling or a portion of a
dwelling designed for occupancy by one family for living purposes, and having
its own cooking and sanitary facilities.
SERVICE CONNECTION: The terminal end of a service line from the public potable
water system at its point of delivery to the customer's water system where the
department loses jurisdiction and sanitary control over the water. If a meter
is installed between the customer's water supply system and the public potable
water system, the service connection shall be the discharge end of the meter.
"Service connection" shall also include a water connection from a fire hydrant
and any other temporary or emergency water connection with the public potable
water supply system.
SOURCE FACILITIES: All components and facilities utilized in the production,
treatment, storage, and delivery of potable water to the distribution system.
STRUCTURE: Each separate occupancy, residence, house, store, building or any
construction or production or piece of work artificially built up or comprised
of parts joined together in some definite manner and served by a separate water
meter. This definition is not inclusive.
UNIT OF SERVICE: Each separate occupancy, house, store, or building so situated
upon any lot within the town that the same might be or is now served by the
town water system or, in the opinion of the public works director, should be
served separately from any other occupancy, house, residence, store, or
building upon the same lot irrespective of the number of residences, houses,
stores, or buildings upon said lot, and even though two (2) or more of said
occupancies, residences, houses, stores, or buildings are held or owned by the
same person. The determination of the public works director as to whether any
house, occupancy, residence, store, or building comes within the meaning of
this definition so as to require separate service connections, curb, or alley
stop box and curb or alley cock shall be final; except, that the owner or
occupant of said premises shall have the right to appeal from such decision to
the town council at a regular meeting. In event of any such appeal being taken,
the determination of the council shall be final.
USED WATER: Any water supplied by the department, from the public potable water
system to a customer's water system, after it has passed through the service
connection and is no longer under the sanitary control of the department.
USER: The owner, tenant, trustee, mortgage receiver, or occupier, whether
person, corporation, firm, or municipality, of property which is connected to
the public water system.
WATER SERVICE AREA: All areas wherein the town has the right to supply domestic
water. (1988 Code § 13-1-2; amd. 2004 Code)
8-3-3: CONDITIONS OF RECEIPT OF WATER SERVICE:
   A.   Domestic water may be supplied by the town to consumers upon terms and
conditions that are approved by the council.
   B.   Domestic water may be supplied to units of service within the town
limits at a reasonable fee as determined by resolution of the council. (1988
Code § 13-2-1)
8-3-4: DEPOSIT REQUIRED:
There shall be a minimum deposit on all domestic water consumer accounts at a
reasonable rate as determined by the council for each unit of service, unless
the bill is guaranteed in writing by the property owner where the consumer is
the actual owner of the property. Two (2) or more minimum deposits may be
required if necessary because of large consumption of domestic water. Any and
all deposits shall be returned following turnoff of service upon demand of the
depositor only after all bills and other charges have been satisfied, and any
such demand shall be made within sixty (60) days of turnoff. (1988 Code § 13-3-
1)
8-3-5: WATER TAPS:
There shall be a minimum tap on charge to be paid in advance, which shall be
the estimate of installation, for any new domestic water connection. This tap
on charge is charged for the purposes of tap on only and is not returnable
except on written request for the actual amount in excess of installation cost,
if any, and is to be collected whether or not the new connection is to be
metered or flat rate. (1988 Code § 13-3-2)
8-3-6: WATER METERS:
   A.   Installation Of Meters:
      1.   The town may furnish a meter for each unit of service which has a
separate tap on the town main.
      2.   All meters shall be installed and water connections with the mains
shall be made by the town. Where possible, meters shall be numbered in such a
manner that they will be indicative of the block and lot number.
   B.   Maintenance Of Meters:
      1.   Except as provided in this chapter, the consumer must maintain all
water connections from the curb or alley stop box and curb or alley cock to and
within his property.
      2.   All meters, except in cases where they are carelessly or wilfully
injured by the consumer, shall be maintained by the town. It shall be the
consumer's responsibility and burden of proof that his negligence did not cause
the damage. (1988 Code § 13-6-1)
   C.   Meter Tests:
      1.   It shall be the privilege of each consumer to insist upon a meter
test when the consumer has deposited with the town clerk an amount as set by
resolution of the council. When such deposit has been made, the meter shall be
tested, and if the meter is found to be registering correctly, the deposit
shall go to the town for the extra service rendered, but if the meter should be
found incorrect, it will be repaired or replaced by the town and the deposit
refunded.
      2.   When a meter is proved defective, the charge for any month affected
shall be equal to an average based upon the three (3) preceding months, and
such meter may be replaced or immediately repaired. (1988 Code § 13-6-3)
   D.   Sealed Meters; Tampering Prohibited:
      1.   Meters shall be sealed by the proper town official in such a manner
as to prevent all tampering with or injury to the mechanism without breaking
the seal.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person to break or remove a seal, or wilfully
injure or destroy a meter or for any person, other than a town official, to
destroy or injure any meter box, or to remove or destroy the lid or cover
belonging thereto or to place refuse or debris therein. (1988 Code § 13-6-4)
8-3-7: ALTERATION OF WATER CONNECTIONS:
Any person, firm or corporation now receiving domestic water from the town, or
who may hereafter receive domestic water, desiring to make any change or
alteration in existing water connections shall be required to furnish the clerk
a statement of the change or alteration to be made, and receive written
permission from the public works director before any such change or alteration
is made. (1988 Code § 13-6-2)
8-3-8: EXTENSION OF WATER MAINS:
   A.   Application For Extension; Approval: A written application shall be
made for water service desired beyond the existing main upon a form supplied by
the town clerk. The permit shall be approved by the mayor and council at a
regular or special meeting. (1988 Code § 13-5-1)
   B.   Responsibility For Costs: The cost of the pipe extending beyond the
existing main and the laying of the pipe shall be paid for by the applicant. If
the town is to order the pipe for the applicant, payment in full must be made
before the order will be placed by the town water department. The town may
reimburse the applicant by an allowance of up to fifty percent (50%) of the
monthly water bill charged to the applicant for a period of five (5) years or
until the cost of the pipe and the cost of laying the same has been reimbursed,
whichever comes first. (1988 Code § 13-5-2; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Requirements:
      1.   Affidavit And Agreement: An affidavit of size, the cost of the pipe,
the cost of laying the pipe, digging of ditches and other costs shall be filed
with the clerk and approved by the council before any agreement with the
applicant may be made.
      2.   Pipe Specifications:
         a.   All pipe used shall be of approved materials (AWWA standards) for
water main installation.
         b.   For reimbursement purposes, determination of proper size and
materials to be used for pipe installations shall be made by the public works
director.
      3.   Installation Of Pipe: All pipe laid in the streets or alleys shall
be laid by direction of the council and under the supervision of the public
works director. (1988 Code § 13-5-3)
   D.   Ownership Of Pipe: Any and all pipe laid in the streets or alleys shall
be the property of the town. The town water department shall have the right to
connect and give service to any applicant that may desire service from the
water pipe so laid under the permit as provided in this chapter. (1988 Code §
13-5-4)
   E.   Nonliability Of Town: The town and the water department assume no
liability for delays or damages beyond their control. (1988 Code § 13-5-5)
8-3-9: BILLS FOR SERVICE; DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   Monthly Payment: Charges for flat rate and metered water service and
trash collection and disposal 1  to a consumer or customer shall be payable
monthly to the town clerk or such person as designated by the town manager.
Such charges may be itemized and totaled on a single bill, and such bill shall
be due and payable when rendered. (1988 Code § 13-2-2)
   B.   Late Payment; Failure To Pay; Exemptions: All or any portion of the
bill provided for in subsection A of this section not paid before the fifteenth
day following the date such bill is mailed or presented shall be subject to a
late payment penalty of ten percent (10%). Should all or any portion of the
bill remain unpaid on the twenty fifth day following the mailing or
presentation thereof, all services for which the bill is rendered may be
discontinued pursuant to procedures set forth in subsection C of this section,
unless the town manager, for good cause, grants an extension of time. The
provisions of this subsection do not apply to public agencies, corporations or
firms with whom the town has water contracts containing other provisions for
payment for services rendered. (1988 Code § 13-2-2; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Discontinuance Of Service: When water service is to be discontinued for
nonpayment, as provided for in subsection B of this section, the town manager
shall cause written notice to that effect and procedures available for relief
from such action to be served in person or by certified mail with return
receipt requested on the customer or consumer whose service is to be
discontinued. Within five (5) calendar days of the service of such notice, the
consumer or customer so notified must:
      1.   Pay the entire amount due; or
      2.   Obtain from the town manager or his authorized agent the extension
of time provided for in subsection B of this section; or
      3.   File with the town clerk a written request for hearing before a
hearing officer designated by the town council to show cause why service should
not be discontinued. Said hearing officer is hereby authorized to adjudicate
contested bills of not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00). Contested bills
in excess of two hundred dollars ($200.00) may be appealed to the council.
Filing of request for hearing before the hearing officer or council will stay
the action to discontinue service until such hearing has been held and the
findings thereof have been announced. After receipt of notice of proposed
termination of service and failure on the part of a customer or consumer to
avail himself of the remedies provided in this subsection, service may be
discontinued forthwith.
   D.   Reinstatement Of Service: In the event the water service of a consumer
or customer has been turned off for nonpayment of water charges pursuant to
this section or as herein provided, the water service shall be turned on again
only upon the payment of all monies due the town for water services billed
through the water department as provided herein, and the payment of a
reasonable fee set by the council for restoring water service. (1988 Code § 13-
2-2)
   E.   Proration Of Charges: If the consumer orders the water turned off or on
during the month, the minimum charge shall be prorated in proportion to the
days of the month that the meter service was in effect. (1988 Code § 13-2-3)
   F.   Responsibility For Payment: In all cases where water is used on any
premises and the payment therefor is guaranteed by the property owner or his
agent, such must settle for the full amount charged against the property. The
water department shall not receive payment from the tenant unless the tenant
sees fit to pay the whole amount of the water charges against the property.
(1988 Code § 13-2-4)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 5, chapter 1, article B of this code.
8-3-10: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
   A.   Discontinuance By Customer; Responsibility For Service: Any person,
firm or corporation who desires to discontinue the use of domestic water
service shall give notice to the clerk in advance of intended termination of
service. Responsibility for water service consumed extends to the time of
departure or to the time specified for departure, whichever occurs last. (1988
Code § 13-4-1)
   B.   Discontinuance Or Refusal Of Service By Town: A consumer's water may be
disconnected for nonpayment of bills for water service or other services
rendered at a previous location served by the water department, provided such
bill is not paid within twenty (20) days after the presentation at the new
location. The public works director may refuse service to any account that owes
a previous water bill or other legal charge made by the water department. (1988
Code § 13-4-2)
8-3-11: PROTECTION OF SYSTEM:
All supply pipes to buildings shall be properly supplied with a suitable stop
cock inside the property line to ensure against the danger of frost or burst
which may cause any such damage. Such stop cock should be kept in good order
and under the control of the consumer, with the water department stop cock and
box being in the charge of the water department only. (1988 Code art. 13-8)
8-3-12: INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE:
Domestic water may at any time be shut off from the town's main due to
emergencies or for the purpose of making repairs or extensions. (1988 Code §
13-4-3)
8-3-13: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Unauthorized Turn On: It is unlawful for any person by false key or
otherwise, after the water has been shut off from the premises, to cause such
premises to be supplied with water. (1988 Code art. 13-7)
   B.   Possession Of Turn On Objects:
      1.   It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to knowingly have and
keep in his possession or under his control any curb or alley cock key or meter
box key, valve key or hydrant wrench to the town water system. (1988 Code art.
13-7; amd. 2004 Code)
      2.   No person shall, without authority from the public works director,
make, construct, buy, sell or in any way dispose of, to any person, any curb or
alley cock key, meter box key, valve key or hydrant wrench for use on the town
water supply system.
   C.   Damage To System; Unauthorized Connections: It is unlawful for any
person, with intent to injure or defraud, to connect any pipe, tube or other
instrument with any main, service pipe or conduit flume for conducting water
belonging to the town, for the purpose of taking water without a permit from
the proper authorities of the town and with intention to injure town property
or evade payment of charges. (1988 Code art. 13-7)
8-3-14: NONLIABILITY OF TOWN:
The town or its water department shall not be held liable for damage that may
result from the shutting or turning off or the turning on of any supply pipe or
main, for any purpose whatsoever, even if no notice has been given, nor for any
damage caused by any break or leak inside of the alley or curb. (1988 Code art.
13-8)
8-3-15: REGULATIONS PART OF CONTRACT:
All regulations contained in this chapter shall be considered a part of the
contract of every resident of the town taking water service from the town, and
such resident taking water service shall be considered as having expressly
consented to be bound thereby. Consumers outside the town limits shall, upon
application for water service, be required to sign a statement agreeing to the
regulations set forth in this chapter. (1988 Code art. 13-9)
CHAPTER 3
WATER REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A.  WATER ALLOCATION MANAGEMENT PROGRAM 1
SECTION:
8-3A-1: Water Service Letters Required For New Construction And Developments
8-3A-2: Processing Letter Applications
8-3A-3: Issuance Of Letters
8-3A-4: Budgeting Water
8-3A-5: Well Regulation
8-3A-6: Water Conservation Measures
8-3A-7: Enforcement Of Provisions
8-3A-8: Administrative Review
8-3A-9: Violation; Penalties
 
Notes
  1. Provisions of this article are derived from ordinance 1-1997, effective 30
1 days following the execution of contract no. 2-07-30-W0025 with the United
  States bureau of reclamation for the delivery of Colorado River water.
8-3A-1: WATER SERVICE LETTERS REQUIRED FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENTS:
   A.   From and after the effective date hereof, no building permit shall be
issued nor lot split or final subdivision approved for the following categories
of residential development unless a water service letter is first obtained from
the town as set forth in this article, or an additional water supply has been
acquired for the water service area and a water delivery contract with either
the town and/or reclamation to provide for the delivery of an adequate 100-year
water supply has been duly executed for use on the subject property which is
within the town's water service area:
      1.   Any single- or multi-family units to be developed on parcels or lots
existing on the effective date hereof within the water service area in excess
of the number of units permitted under the zoning regulations applicable to
said parcel or lot on the effective date hereof.
      2.   A lot split or final subdivision plat creating parcels for
residential development approved after the effective date hereof.
   B.   If it is determined by the town, the Arizona department of water
resources, and the U.S. bureau of reclamation that the water which will be
provided for residential development is derived from a ground water source and
not from the Colorado River, either directly or indirectly, the request for the
water service letter will specify that ground water will be utilized. The
determination of adequacy of a 100-year supply must be documented by the
applicant subject to the rules and regulations (R12-15-716-725) established by
the Arizona department of water resources before a water service letter will be
issued by the town. Ground water use is not subject to U.S. bureau of
reclamation reporting requirements (see also subsection 8-3A-5F of this
article). (Ord. 1-1997, 2-18-1997)
8-3A-2: PROCESSING LETTER APPLICATIONS:
The town shall process water service letter applications on a first come, first
serve basis in conjunction with building permit, lot split and/or subdivision
plat applications in accordance with the actual date and time that the
application is accepted as complete by the planning and zoning commission,
hereinafter referred to as "commission". Receipt of an application form and
materials by the commission does not constitute an acceptance. If the form and
materials received are determined to be complete, the date and time of receipt
by the commission will establish its priority. If the form or materials are
determined to be incomplete, then the date and time of the receipt by the
commission of the missing information and/or materials, which then comprise a
complete application, will establish its priority. (Ord. 1-1997, 2-18-1997)
8-3A-3: ISSUANCE OF LETTERS:
   A.   Issuing Body: Water service letters will be issued by the planning and
zoning commission for applicable developments in conjunction with the issuance
of building permits and approval of lot splits and final subdivision plats.
   B.   Conditions Of Issuance: No water service letters, as required by
section
8-3A-2 of this article, shall be issued unless there is sufficient water
budgeted for such uses pursuant to section
8-3A-4 of this article, and provided further, that budgeted water has not
already been committed pursuant to this article. Each water service letter
shall state a maximum quantity of water available for the new or expanded use
for which it is issued, said maximum quantity to be calculated using the
established criteria of the Arizona department of water resources which
provides for an assumed usage of three hundred seventy five (375) gallons per
day for each single-family unit and three hundred (300) gallons per day for
each multi-family unit or recreational vehicle park space. Should this maximum
quantity be subsequently exceeded due to an unauthorized expansion, addition or
alteration to a property, the town may terminate service to the property, in
whole or in part, after proper notice and hearing. Water service letters issued
by the town pursuant to this article are subject to the following conditions:
      1.   Building Permits: In order for a water service letter to remain
valid when issued in conjunction with a building permit, the applicant must
have been issued a building permit and must have begun construction by one
hundred eighty (180) days from the date of permit issuance. Commencement of
construction will be evidenced by an inspection and certification by the
planning and zoning commission or its designee. Failure to commence
construction by the expiration of the building permit will cause the water
service letter to expire. If the building permit is revoked or canceled for any
reason, then the water service letter also is voided.
      2.   Lot Splits And Final Subdivision Plats: A water service letter
issued in conjunction with approval of a lot split or final subdivision plat
approval shall remain valid as long as the newly created lots are recorded and
residential construction has commenced pursuant to building permits for at
least ten percent (10%) of the recorded residential lots within one year from
the date of said recordation. Should said lots ever become abandoned, the water
service letter is automatically voided. (Ord. 1-1997, 2-18-1997)
8-3A-4: BUDGETING WATER:
   A.   Budgeting Procedure:
      1.   Under existing and proposed water service contracts with
reclamation, the town has available a total water supply of one thousand six
hundred sixty (1,660) acre-feet of Colorado River water per annum for use
within its defined water service area. This water will be budgeted by the town
in the following way:
         a.   The town has a miscellaneous present perfected right to an annual
quantity of Colorado River water not to exceed the lesser of: 1) an annual
diversion of six hundred thirty (630) acre-feet; or 2) the quantity of Colorado
River water necessary to supply an annual consumptive use of four hundred (400)
acre-feet. This water entitlement is a first priority right pursuant to the
1944 contract for delivery of water between the United States and the state of
Arizona and is available for beneficial use within the Parker townsite pursuant
to contract no. 2-07-30-W0025.
         b.   The town has a recommendation from the Arizona department of
water resources for a fourth priority right pursuant to the 1944 contract
between the United States and the state of Arizona for an annual diversion of
up to an additional one thousand thirty (1,030) acre-feet. This water
entitlement, upon incorporation into a written contract between the town and
the United States, will be available for use as follows:
            (1)   One hundred fifty (150) acre-feet of Colorado River water for
water service to platted residential lots existing on the effective date hereof
within the Parker townsite, without water connections, consistent with the
number of residential units allowed by the zoning regulations applicable to
said lots on the effective date hereof.
            (2)   Eight hundred eighty (880) acre-feet of Colorado River water
for all water service, including service for: a) existing wells outside the
town service area owned by parties other than the town and accepted for
inclusion by the town as alternative withdrawal points, as provided in
subsection
8-3A-5C2 of this article; b) new or expanded uses pursuant to water service
letters, as provided in subsections
8-3A-5D1 and D2 of this article; and c) all other categories of use within the
service area.
         c.   Any of the water noted above, or that which is designated as
fifth and sixth priority unused Arizona entitlement or surplus water (2,000
acre-feet), may be used outside the town contract service area when so
authorized by the contracting officer.
         d.   Fifth and sixth priority water will not be utilized to establish
a 100-year adequacy of supply unless it is designated as banked under a
properly authorized storage and recovery project permitted by the Arizona
department of water resources.
      2.   All water allocations will be monitored by the public works
director, and the town council will review annually and may modify as necessary
the water budget consistent with the provisions of the contract for Colorado
River water which is signed with the bureau of reclamation.
   B.   Purpose Of Water Budget; Review And Revision:
      1.   The establishment of this water budget is intended to promote the
town's objective of maintaining the availability of water over the next ten
(10) years while additional sources of water are sought. If an additional water
supply is made available to the town within the time period of this water
budget, the town council will review and revise the water budget as necessary.
      2.   The town will periodically review conservation requirements and may
adopt more restrictive conservation measures as deemed necessary to make
maximum use of its water supply.
      3.   The water allocations set forth in subsection A of this section may
be revised or reallocated periodically to reflect the availability of new
supplies, conservation requirements or changing demand patterns, and the water
budget does not constitute a guarantee of availability of water for new uses.
   C.   Payment Of Charges; Compliance With Provisions: The receipt or
withdrawal by any person or entity of any Colorado River water allocated to the
town is conditioned upon payment to the town of any applicable fees or charges
and compliance with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, including, but
not limited to, the measures set forth in this water allocation and management
program. (Ord. 1-1997, 2-18-1997)
8-3A-5: WELL REGULATION:
   A.   Findings: The town finds as follows:
      1.   The town is a party to contract no. 2-07-30-W0025 with the bureau of
reclamation for the delivery of Colorado River water.
      2.   Reclamation has asserted a claim that all water lying below the
defined accounting surface in the Colorado River Valley south and west of the
Buckskin Mountains is hydrologically connected to the surface flow of the
Colorado River.
      3.   The town reserves the right to contest reclamation's claim regarding
what water is connected to the surface and/or subsurface flow of the Colorado
River.
      4.   Reclamation requires, as a condition of the water delivery contract,
that any Colorado River water withdrawn within the water service area be
deducted from the town's contract entitlement to Colorado River water, and
further, that a failure to report total diversion of Colorado River water to
the regional director of the bureau of reclamation does constitute grounds for
termination of the contract. Water withdrawn from wells within the water
service areas that is determined by the contracting officer to be ground water
will not be reported to the bureau of reclamation.
   B.   Adoption Of Provisions: The town, in order to protect its contract
entitlement and to provide adequate service within its water service area,
adopts the measures of this section applicable to all well drilling and
withdrawals of Colorado River water within the water service area.
   C.   Registration Requirements:
      1.   Registration Required:
         a.   Any owner of a producing well located in the water service area
and in existence on the effective date hereof shall register such well within
ninety (90) days from said effective date upon a form provided by the town
director of public works which shall require the following information: 1)
description of the well location; 2) the Arizona well registration number; 3) a
copy of the notice of completion filed with the department of water resources;
and 4) on the fifteenth day of each month, a full written report of volume of
water diverted.
         b.   If any such well has not been registered with the Arizona
department of water resources, the owner shall provide to the town director of
public works the information requested by the Arizona well registration
requirements as well as Arizona department of water resources notice of
completion forms.
      2.   Acceptance Or Rejection Of Well:
         a.   Within ninety (90) days after a well owner has provided the
information required by subsection C1 of this section, the town will issue a
written notice to the owner either accepting the well as an alternative
withdrawal point for water to be used pursuant to the town's Colorado River
contract or notifying the well owner that such well has not been accepted for
inclusion within the town's Colorado River allocation. In considering whether
an existing well shall be included within the town's Colorado River allocation,
the town shall consider: 1) whether the well was drilled in compliance with the
well registration and notice of completion requirement of Arizona law; and 2)
the nature of the use and whether it is reasonable and beneficial.
         b.   The acceptance of a well for inclusion within the town's Colorado
River allocation shall be conditioned in the manner described in subsection D3
of this section.
   D.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permit Required: No water-producing well shall be drilled or
existing well modified within the water service area, and no water shall be
withdrawn from such new or modified well after the effective date hereof,
unless the person proposing to do so has first obtained a permit from the town
designating the well as an alternative withdrawal point for a designated
portion of the town's Colorado River entitlement.
      2.   Considerations: In determining whether to issue such a permit, the
town public workers director shall consider, among other factors:
         a.   Location of the well;
         b.   The impact of the proposed withdrawal upon both quality and
quantity of water that may be available at present or in the future at
withdrawal points for the town water system;
         c.   Whether the proposed withdrawal will create any ground level
subsidence effect upon any neighboring property or any other properties subject
to the cone of influence;
         d.   Whether the applicants can connect, with reasonable cost, to an
existing part of the town's water system; and
         e.   Whether the proposed use of the withdrawn water is consistent
with the town planning, zoning, resource allocation laws, policies, and
otherwise in the best interest of the town.
      3.   Conditions Of Permit: Any notice or permit issued pursuant to this
section shall stipulate that:
         a.   The notice or permit shall be nontransferable without permission
from the town.
         b.   The well's location and rate of withdrawal may not be materially
altered without an amendment of the notice or permit from the town. In
determining whether to issue such an amendment, the town shall consider the
factors set forth in subsections D1 and D2 of this section and such factors as
are appropriate.
         c.   The well shall not be used for any purpose other than that listed
and approved in the application.
         d.   Use of the well is permitted only until the town has provided a
point of connection to the town water facilities within four hundred feet
(400') of the property line of the parcel containing the well. Existing wells
are exempted from this requirement.
         e.   Effluent or wastewater generated by use of this well water will
be claimed by the town for reporting purposes as the town receives return flow
credits from reclamation for wastewater or effluent discharges.
         f.   The well shall be limited to a specified pump capacity and
maximum annual withdrawal limit.
         g.   The owner shall agree in writing to all conservation measures
which may be imposed by the town on users within the water service area.
         h.   The owner shall agree in writing to make an annual report of the
amount of withdrawal, static water levels (taken in January of each year), and
such other information as may be required by the town public works director.
This information must be submitted to the town no later than February 1 of each
year.
         i.   As a condition of permit issuance, the well owner must
acknowledge responsibility for all applicable water development or related fees
for supply, storage, distribution, and treatment of all Colorado River water
that is diverted and/or used within the town's water service area, subject to
the town's contract with the bureau of reclamation.
         j.   Maintenance of the quality of the water lying below the town is a
high priority, therefore, the well permittee is required to meet high standards
of well construction, preventing low quality water from contaminating the zones
of high quality water from which the town is currently pumping. The director of
public works, or his designee, is responsible for inspection of any well
drilled within the town service area and may, by order, stop drilling until he
is assured that proper action is being taken to prevent the mixing of potable
water and poor quality water in the subsurface. The responsibility and expense
of any remediation lies with the permittee. In circumstances where the
permittee defaults on this responsibility, the director of public works may
take appropriate action as necessary, at the expense of the town, and the costs
thereof shall be assessed as a lien upon the property of the permittee, and
also, a personal liability may be placed on the occupant of the premises.
         k.   Any well drilled or maintained in violation of this article which
becomes a source of danger for pollution of the town's potable water supply is
declared a public nuisance, and the owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
         l.   The temporary use of water within the contract service area may
be approved by the town council subject to conditions, such as the duration of
water use, as well as other conditions which may be imposed upon well permits
issued pursuant to the provisions of this article. Permits for temporary water
use which are due to expire may be renewed or extended by action of the town
council upon application prior to the date of permit expiration. Temporary uses
of water shall be reviewed on an annual basis to assure compliance with
applicable conditions of issuance. Permits for the temporary use of water may
be revoked by the town council upon a finding of failure to comply with
conditions of permit issuance.
         m.   No Colorado River water withdrawn for use within the town's
service area pursuant to a permit granted according to this article may be
transported, distributed or used outside of the town service area as the same
exists today or as may, from time to time, be amended, modified, contracted or
expanded by the council and/or the bureau of reclamation.
   E.   Application Of Provisions: The requirements of this article shall apply
to all water production wells within the water service area, irrespective of
type of use, size, capacity, or approved duration of use. The requirement of
subsections D1 and D2 of this section that a new or modified well receive a
permit from the town for use as an alternative withdrawal point is in addition
to any other requirement of this article, including, but not limited to, the
requirement of receiving a water service letter or acquiring additional water,
as provided in this article, and the payment of any applicable water source
development fees.
   F.   Exemptions From Provisions: Any person asserting that a well within the
water service area does not withdraw Colorado River water must, in order to
receive an exemption from the requirements of this section, submit to the town
a written determination by reclamation that the well is not considered a
diversion of Colorado River water and that withdrawals from the well will not
be counted against the town's allocated share of Colorado River water. Any
water withdrawn from wells will be considered to be Colorado River water until
a written exemption is provided from reclamation.
   G.   Ground Water Users; Annual Report Required: Owners of wells located
inside the town's service area or outside (but providing water for any purpose
inside the town's service area) that take ground water must also provide annual
reports as noted in subsection D3h of this section. If it is determined that
said well has begun to draw Colorado River water, then the well is immediately
subject to all the provisions of this article.
   H.   Revocation Of Permit: The permit of any permittee who violates any
provision of this article or condition or stipulation of his permit shall be
subject to permit revocation by the town manager after appropriate notice and
hearing, as provided in section
8-3A-8 of this article. (Ord. 1-1997, 2-18-1997)
8-3A-6: WATER CONSERVATION MEASURES:
   A.   Adoption Of Water Conservation Program: The council may, from time to
time, adopt a water conservation program by resolution.
   B.   Compliance With Program: All users of Colorado River water lying within
the town service area (Parker Township, Parker South, and Parker East, as
defined on the map attached to ordinance 1-1997) and all recipients of any
water delivered by the town, shall comply with all requirements and provisions
of the program as adopted by the council.
   C.   Violation; Penalty: The failure of any recipient of Colorado River
water allocated to and/or delivered to the town or of any recipient of any
water or waters delivered by the town to comply with the water conservation
program, or any portion thereof, adopted by the town shall constitute a
violation of this code and be punishable as provided in subsection
8-3A-9 of this article. (Ord. 1-1997, 2-18-1997)
8-3A-7: ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Enforcement Agreements: The town shall enforce the provisions of this
article throughout its water service area by all appropriate means, including,
but not limited to, cooperative enforcement agreements with federal agencies or
the state of Arizona and its political subdivisions.
   B.   Other Remedies: Any use of Colorado River water within the town water
service area which is inconsistent with this article will be considered by the
town to be not only a violation of any applicable town, local or state law, but
also an interference with the contractual relationship between the town and
reclamation and a violation of federal law. The town may seek assistance from
county, state and/or federal authorities to halt such unauthorized water use,
sue in its own name to recover the fair market value of the water so used, or
both. (Ord. 1-1997, 2-18-1997)
8-3A-8: ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW:
   A.   Request For Review: Any person adversely affected by a decision of the
public works director or the planning and zoning commission or any other town
official or employee pursuant to this article may, within ten (10) business
days after receipt or notice of such a decision, submit the matter to the town
manager, or his designee, for review.
   B.   Informal Review Process: Review of the matter may be conducted in an
informal manner and without adherence to the rules of evidence required in
judicial proceedings.
   C.   Decisions Of Town Manager:
      1.   The town manager may consider any relevant and reliable evidence
concerning the decision, including evidence of the proper application of the
town standards utilized in reaching the decision or any errors in the
information or methodology used by the town personnel in reaching the decision.
      2.   The town manager may, in consultation with the town attorney, hold
an informal hearing on the matter.
      3.   The town manager shall uphold a decision which is supported by
substantial, reliable and probative information, and shall modify or reject any
other decision.
      4.   The town manager's final decision upon review, which may be
promulgated with the assistance of the town attorney, shall be in writing,
contain findings of fact and other grounds for the final decision, and be
delivered or mailed within sixty (60) days of the submission of the appeal to
the party requesting review and to his/her attorney of record, if any. (Ord. 1-
1997, 2-18-1997)
8-3A-9: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Pursuant to this code, any person found guilty of violating any provision of
this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that a violation continues shall be a separate
offense, punishable as herein described. In addition, the town may take such
other action as may be appropriate in responding to a violation hereof,
including, but not limited to, the termination of water service or capping of
unauthorized wells. (Ord. 1-1997, 2-18-1997; amd. 2004 Code)
ARTICLE B.  BACKFLOW PREVENTION AND CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
8-3B-1: Purpose
8-3B-2: Application Of And Compliance With Provisions
8-3B-3: Plan Review And Approval Required
8-3B-4: Backflow Prevention Required
8-3B-5: Determination Of Hazard Potential
8-3B-6: Backflow Prevention Methods
8-3B-7: Backflow Prevention Required For Specified Activities
8-3B-8: Installation And Location Requirements
8-3B-9: Backflow Prevention For Fire Sprinkler Systems
8-3B-10: Inspections
8-3B-11: Tests; Maintenance; Records
8-3B-12: Modification Of Requirements
8-3B-13: Tampering With Devices Prohibited
8-3B-14: Discontinuance Of Water Service
8-3B-15: Fees
8-3B-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   To protect the public potable water supply of the town from the
possibility of contamination or pollution by preventing the backflow of
contaminants and pollutants into the public potable water supply system;
   B.   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross connections,
actual or potential, within a customer's internal potable water system,
plumbing fixtures, and industrial piping systems; and
   C.   To provide for a continuing program of cross connection control which
will prevent the contamination or pollution of the public potable water supply
system. (1988 Code § 13-10-1)
8-3B-2: APPLICATION OF AND COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
   A.   The provisions of this article shall apply to all new and existing
water customers, as applicable.
   B.   Backflow prevention assemblies installed prior to enactment of this
article, and which do not comply with the requirements set forth in this
article, shall be replaced with assemblies which comply with the standards set
forth herein. (1988 Code § 13-10-12)
8-3B-3: PLAN REVIEW AND APPROVAL REQUIRED:
All backflow prevention assemblies which will be installed shall be shown and
specified on all required building and engineering plans. Approval of the
intended assembly installation is required prior to issuance of any building or
engineering permit. (1988 Code § 13-10-14)
8-3B-4: BACKFLOW PREVENTION REQUIRED:
   A.   An approved backflow prevention method shall be utilized or installed
at every service connection to a customer's water system when the department
determines the potable water supplied by the public potable water system may be
subject to contamination, pollution, or other deterioration in sanitary quality
by conditions within the customer's water system.
   B.   The backflow prevention method to be utilized or installed shall be
determined by the department. The method required by the department shall be
sufficient to protect against the potential degree of hazard, as determined by
the department, to the public potable water supply from the customer's water
system. (1988 Code § 13-10-2)
8-3B-5: DETERMINATION OF HAZARD POTENTIAL:
The degree of hazard potential to the public potable water supply and system
from a customer's water supply and system shall be determined using the
following hazard factors:
   A.   Health: Any condition, device or practice which, in the judgment of the
department, may create a danger to the health and well-being of the potable
water consumers.
   B.   Plumbing: A plumbing type cross connection that is not properly
protected by an approved backflow prevention method.
   C.   Pollution: An actual or potential threat to the physical facilities of
the public potable water supply system or to the public potable water supply
which, although not dangerous to health, would constitute a nuisance or be
aesthetically objectionable, or could cause damage to the system or its
appurtenances.
   D.   Water System: An actual or potential threat which may cause severe
damage to the physical facilities of the public potable water supply system or
which may have a protracted effect on the quality of the potable water in the
system. (1988 Code § 13-10-3)
8-3B-6: BACKFLOW PREVENTION METHODS:
   A.   Types Of Methods: A backflow prevention method shall be any assembly or
other means designed to prevent backflow. The following are the recognized
backflow prevention methods which the department may require under section
8-3B-4 or
8-3B-7 of this article:
      1.   Air Gap: The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the opening of any pipe or faucet supplying potable water to
a tank, plumbing fixture or other device and the flood level rim of said tank,
plumbing fixture or other device. An approved air gap shall be at least double
the diameter of the supply pipe or faucet and in no case less than one inch
(1").
      2.   Reduced Pressure Principle Assembly (Hereafter RP): An assembly
containing two (2) independently acting approved check valves, together with a
hydraulically operating, mechanically independent pressure differential relief
valve located between the check valves, and at the same time below the first
check valve. The assembly shall include properly located test cocks and tightly
closing shutoff valves at each end of the assembly.
      3.   Double Check Valve Assembly (Hereinafter DC): An assembly composed
of two (2) independently acting, approved check valves, including tightly
closing shutoff valves located at each end of the assembly and fitted with
properly located test cocks.
      4.   Pressure Vacuum Breaker Assembly (Hereinafter PVB): An assembly
containing an independently operating, loaded check valve and an independently
operating, loaded air inlet valve located on the discharge side of the check
valve. The assembly shall be equipped with properly located test cocks and
tightly closing shutoff valves located at each end of the assembly.
   B.   Approval Required: A backflow prevention method may be approved by the
department if it has received the approval of the foundation for cross
connection control and hydraulic research of the University of Southern
California and, for assemblies, has a local manufacturer's parts and service
center.
   C.   List Of Methods: The department shall maintain a list of approved
backflow prevention assemblies, by type and manufacturer. The list shall be
furnished to any customer required to install a backflow prevention assembly.
(1988 Code § 13-10-4)
8-3B-7: BACKFLOW PREVENTION REQUIRED FOR SPECIFIED ACTIVITIES:
   A.   When any of the following activities are conducted on premises served
by the public potable water system, a potential hazard to the public potable
water supply shall be presumed, and a backflow prevention method of the type
specified herein for that activity, must be utilized or installed at the
service connection for that premises:
Any premises where a cross connection is maintained: RP
Aircraft and missile plants: RP
Animal clinics and animal grooming shops: RP
Automotive repair with steam cleaner, acid cleaning equipment, or solvent
facilities: RP
Auxiliary water system: RP
Bottling plants, beverage or chemical: RP
Breweries: RP
Buildings greater than three (3) stories or greater than thirty four feet (34')
in height from curb level: DC
Buildings with house pumps and/or potable water storage tank: DC
Buildings with landscape fountains, ponds or baptismal tanks: RP or air gap
Buildings with sewage ejectors: RP
Canneries, packing houses, and reduction plants: RP
Car wash facilities: RP
Centralized heating and air conditioning plants: RP
Chemical plants: RP
Chemically treated potable or nonpotable water systems: RP
Civil works (government owned or operated facilities not open for inspection by
the department): DP
Commercial laundries: RP
Dairies and cold storage plants: DC
Dye works: RP
Film processing laboratories: RP
Fire systems - American Water Works Association classes 1, 2, 3; all systems
six inches (6") in size and larger or any system constructed of a piping
material not approved as a potable water system material per the uniform
plumbing code as adopted by the town 1 : DC
Fire systems - American Water Works Association classes 4, 5, 6: RP
Fire systems - where backflow protection is required on the industrial and
domestic service connections that are located on the same premises, both
service connections will have adequate backflow protection for the highest
degree of hazard affecting either system
Food processing plants: RP
High schools and colleges: RP
Holding tank disposal stations: RP
Hospitals and mortuaries: RP
Irrigation systems (not to include single-family detached residences):
      1.   Premises having separate systems used in elevated areas or with drip
irrigation: RP
      2.   Premises having nonpotable water piping (lawn sprinklers) two inches
(2") and smaller: PVB
Laboratories using toxic materials: RP
Manufacturing, processing, and fabricating plants using toxic or nontoxic
materials: RP
Medical and dental buildings, sanitariums, rest and convalescent homes engaged
in the diagnosis, care or treatment of human illness: DC
Mobile home parks: DC
Motion picture studios: RP
Multiple services, interconnected: DC
Oil and gas production facilities: RP
Paper and paper production plants: RP
Plating plants: RP
Portable insecticide and herbicide spray tanks: RP or air gap
Power plants: RP
Radioactive materials processing facilities: RP
Restricted, classified, or other closed facilities: RP
Rubber plants: RP
Sand and gravel plants: RP
Sewage and storm drainage facilities: RP
Shopping centers: DC
Street sweepers, steel wheeled rollers: RP or air gap
Water trucks, water tanks or hydraulic sewer cleaning equipment: RP or air gap
   B.   When two (2) or more of the activities listed in subsection A of this
section are conducted on the same premises and served by the same service
connection, the most restrictive backflow prevention method required for any of
the activities conducted on the premises shall be required to be utilized or
installed at the service connection. The order of most restrictive to least
restrictive backflow prevention methods shall be as follows:
      1.   Air gap (most restrictive).
      2.   Reduced pressure principal assembly (RP).
      3.   Pressure vacuum breaker assembly (PVB).
      4.   Double check vale assembly (DC) (least restrictive). (1988 Code §
13-10-5)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9, chapter 2 of this code.
8-3B-8: INSTALLATION AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Installation Requirements:
      1.   Backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed at the service
connection by the customer, at the customer's expense, and in compliance with
the standards and specifications adopted by the town. The assembly shall have a
diameter at least equal to the diameter of the service connection.
      2.   When a customer desires a continuous water supply, two (2) or more
backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed parallel to one another at
the service connection to allow a continuous water supply during testing of the
backflow prevention assemblies. When backflow prevention assemblies are
installed parallel to one another, the sum of the areas of the diameters of the
assemblies shall be at least equal to the area of the diameter of the service
connection.
   B.   Location: The assembly shall be in an accessible location approved by
the department. A reduced pressure principle assembly and pressure vacuum
breaker assembly shall be installed aboveground. A double check valve assembly
may be installed, at the customer's option, belowground in a vault which meets
standard specifications established by the town.
   C.   Testing Backflow Assembly: The backflow assembly shall be tested at the
time of installation by an approved, certified general tester, with results to
be filed with the department and town building official prior to issuance of a
certificate of occupancy. (1988 Code § 13-10-6)
8-3B-9: BACKFLOW PREVENTION FOR FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS:
   A.   When a backflow prevention assembly is required for a water service
connection supplying water only to a fire sprinkler system, the assembly shall
be installed at the service connection in compliance with the standard
specifications adopted by the town.
   B.   If the chief of the town fire department, or his designee, determines
that a fire sprinkler system shall have a continuous water supply which may not
be interrupted during testing of the backflow prevention assembly, the customer
shall install, at his expense, two (2) backflow prevention assemblies parallel
to one another at the service connection. The diameter of each assembly shall
be at least equal to the diameter of the service connection.
   C.   Modifications of an existing service connection supplying water solely
to a fire sprinkler system shall require the entire system to comply with the
requirements of the department (UPC 1991 sec. 1003). (1988 Code § 13-10-7)
8-3B-10: INSPECTIONS:
A customer's water system shall be open at all times during business operations
on the premises for inspection by authorized personnel of the department. The
inspection shall be conducted to determine whether any cross connections or
other hazard potentials exist and to determine compliance with this article.
(1988 Code § 13-10-8)
8-3B-11: TESTS; MAINTENANCE; RECORDS:
   A.   Annual Test Required:
      1.   The customer shall test and service backflow prevention assemblies
at least once a year. If the testing reveals the assembly to be defective or in
unsatisfactory operating condition, the customer shall perform any necessary
repairs, including replacement or overhaul of the assembly, if necessary, which
will return the assembly to satisfactory operating condition.
      2.   The annual testing shall be performed by an individual certified and
approved by the department to conduct such testing. A list of certified,
approved and recognized individuals will be maintained by the department and
will be available upon request to all persons required to install or maintain a
backflow prevention assembly.
   B.   Maintenance And Repair: If the department or customer learns or
discovers, during the interim period between tests, that an assembly is
defective or in unsatisfactory operating condition, the customer shall perform
any necessary repairs, including replacement or overhaul of the assembly, if
necessary, which will return the assembly to satisfactory operating condition.
   C.   Records Kept: The customer shall maintain records, on forms approved by
the department, of the results of all tests and all servicing, repairs,
overhauls or replacements of the backflow prevention assembly. A copy of the
records shall be promptly submitted to the department after completion of the
activity for which the record is made. (1988 Code § 13-10-9)
8-3B-12: MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENTS:
If the department determines, after inspection of the customer's system, that a
backflow prevention method less restrictive than that required in section
8-3B-7 of this article will provide adequate protection of the public potable
water supply from the degree of hazard potential presented by the customer's
water system, the department may, in its sole discretion, modify the
requirements of said section
8-3B-7 accordingly. (1988 Code § 13-10-10)
8-3B-13: TAMPERING WITH DEVICES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful, and punishable as a misdemeanor, for any person to
bypass, remove or modify a backflow prevention method without the approval of
the department. (1988 Code § 13-10-6)
8-3B-14:  DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE:
   A.   Conditions For Discontinuance: If the department discovers that a
customer has not installed a required backflow prevention method or that a
backflow prevention method has been improperly tested or maintained, bypassed
or removed, or that an unprotected cross connection exists in the customer's
water system, the water service to that service connection shall be
disconnected if the situation is not remedied within the time specified in the
notice sent to the customer as required by this section. The service shall not
be restored until the condition is remedied.
   B.   Notice Requirements And Exemption:
      1.   Prior to disconnecting any water service because a condition set
forth in subsection A of this section exists, the department shall send a
notice to the customer describing the condition and notifying the customer the
condition must be remedied within forty five (45) days after mailing of the
notice by the department.
      2.   If such condition is not remedied within said forty five (45) day
period, the department shall send a second notice, by certified mail, to the
customer notifying the customer that water service will be disconnected in
fifteen (15) days if the condition is not remedied within such time period.
      3.   The department may disconnect, without notice, water service to any
customer when the department discovers that the customer's water system is
contaminating the public potable water supply.
   C.   Fire Sprinkler Systems Exempt: Water service to a fire sprinkler system
shall not be subject to disconnection under this section. If a situation, which
would otherwise result in discontinuance of water service in subsection A of
this section, is not remedied within the time provided in the notice sent to
the customer, the customer may be issued a citation for a misdemeanor offense.
Each day the situation is allowed to continue thereafter shall constitute a
separate violation of this section. (1988 Code § 13-10-11)
8-3B-15: FEES:
   A.   Service Fee: A monthly service fee may be established by town council
resolution to cover the costs of implementing and enforcing this article and,
if established, shall be charged to every customer who is required to install a
backflow prevention assembly. The fee shall be included in the customer's
monthly water bill 1 .
   B.   Testing Fee: Fees for backflow prevention assembly testing by the
department shall be established by council resolution. (1988 Code § 13-10-13)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  8-3-9 of this title.
CHAPTER 4
SEWER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Administration And Operation Of Sewer System
8-4-2: Connection To System Required
8-4-3: Delinquent Accounts
8-4-4: Industrial Users
8-4-1: ADMINISTRATION AND OPERATION OF SEWER SYSTEM:
The administration and operation of the sewer system in the town shall be in
accordance with the terms and conditions of the existing agreement and all
future agreements signed by the parties to the Colorado River sewage system
joint venture. (1988 Code art. 11-1)
8-4-2: CONNECTION TO SYSTEM REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to construct a building,
business or otherwise, or locate a mobile home on any property within "Sewage
Improvement District No. 1, Parker, Arizona" without connecting the same with
the connecting lines of the sewage system within thirty (30) days of its use or
operation. (1988 Code art. 11-2; amd. 2004 Code)
8-4-3: DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS:
The Colorado River sewage system joint venture is empowered to:
   A.   Notice Of Delinquency: Declare delinquent, with notice of such
declaration to the user on the next regularly scheduled billing for services,
any user account or accounts for rates, tolls and other charges for connection
with or use of service of the system, including minimum charges and charges for
availability of service, which remain unpaid thirty (30) days after the day
payment is due for such connection or services of the system (hereinafter
"delinquent account").
   B.   Late Payment Penalty: Assess against and add to any such delinquent
account as a late payment charge one and one-half percent (1.5%) of the then
outstanding balance of the delinquent account, including accrued late payment
charges, or two dollars ($2.00), whichever is greater, every thirty (30) days
or any part thereof from the day payment is due.
   C.   Lien For Charges: File a lien or liens for the amount of any delinquent
account or accounts and all late charges against the interest of any user whose
account is delinquent in any property to which service is provided by the
system.
   D.   Suit For Costs; Lien Foreclosure: Sue any user for the amount of any
delinquent account and assessed late charges owing by such user, or to
foreclose any lien filed against the user's property, as well and for costs and
attorney fees in bringing and prosecuting any such suit or suits;
   E.   Termination Of Service: Terminate service to and physically disconnect
from the system any user whose account is declared delinquent from the system,
after first:
      1.   Providing such user written notice delivered to the user, either
personally by an agent or employee of the system or by regular and certified
mail with return receipt requested to the address shown on the user's
application for service, of declaration of the user's account or accounts as
delinquent and of the joint venture's intention to disconnect the user from the
system on or after a date certain, which date shall not be less than twelve
(12) days from the day of delivery of such notice, which delivery shall, as to
the regular mail notice, be deemed complete five (5) days from the date it is
deposited in the U.S. mail unless payment in full of any delinquent account and
all assessed late charges is received by the joint venture prior to such date
or unless a written extension for payment of such delinquent account has been
obtained from the manager of the joint venture.
      2.   Including in such notice a statement of said user's right to oppose
termination of service and disconnection from the system by delivering to the
manager of the joint venture at the address provided in the notice within ten
(10) days after the date of delivery of such notice a written request for a
hearing before the board of directors of the joint venture stating why the
account is not a delinquent account or why the user should not be disconnected
from the system.
      3.   Providing a hearing before the board of directors of the joint
venture within thirty (30) days after the day of delivery by the manager of the
joint venture of a user's written request for a hearing, at which time, the
user shall show cause why the joint venture should not terminate service and
disconnect the user from the system.
      4.   Providing any user entitled to a hearing written notice of the date,
time, and place thereof, delivered to the user, either personally by an agent
or employee of the system or by regular and certified mail with return receipt
requested to the address shown on the user's application for service, and
including in such notice a statement that unless payment in full of any
delinquent account and all assessed late charges is received by the joint
venture prior to the conclusion of the requested hearing, that service to the
user may be terminated and the user may be disconnected from the system without
further notice immediately following the hearing.
      5.   Determining by and through its board of directors, as soon as
practicable after the hearing requested by the user, whether or not the user
shall be disconnected from the system; provided, that should the user fail to
appear in person or by authorized representative at such hearing, then the user
may be disconnected from the system forthwith.
   F.   Reinstatement Of Service: Resume service to and reconnect any user to
the system to whom services have been terminated and who has been disconnected
from the system after the user has paid in full any delinquent account or
accounts, all associated late charges, and any attorney fees and costs incurred
by the joint venture, as well as any fees for resumption of service and
reconnection to the system as determined by the joint venture. (1988 Code art.
11-3)
8-4-4: INDUSTRIAL USERS:
   A.   Requirements Adopted: That certain document known as "Colorado River
Sewage System Joint Venture, Industrial Wastewater Ordinance", three (3) copies
of which are on file in the office of the town clerk, which document was made a
public record by resolution 3-1991 of the town, is hereby referred to, adopted
and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this section, the provisions
thereof to become effective on March 21, 1991.
   B.   Penalties:
      1.   Permit Violations: Any person who violates the permitting,
reporting, or permit amendment provisions of the ordinance shall be civilly
liable to the joint venture for a sum not to exceed five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each day in which such violation occurs.
      2.   Prohibited Discharges: Any person who allows discharge to the JVOTW
of any industrial wastewater in violation of the requirements of the industrial
wastewater ordinance, or permits issued under the ordinance, shall be civilly
liable to the joint venture for a sum not to exceed twenty five thousand
dollars ($25,000.00) for each day in which such violation occurs.
      3.   False Information; Tampering With System: Knowingly making any false
statements, representation, or certification in any application, record,
report, plan, or other document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to
this section or industrial wastewater discharge permit; or falsifying,
tampering with or knowingly rendering inaccurate any monitoring device or
method required under this section, shall constitute a class 1 misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1-1991, 2-19-1991)
CHAPTER 5
TOWN PARKS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Day Use Only
8-5-2: Park Use After Curfew
8-5-3: Tobacco Free Parks
8-5-1: DAY USE ONLY:
Except as provided by special permit, town parks are day use only. "Day use"
means from sunrise to sunset. Violation of this section shall constitute a
civil offense subject to a fifty dollar ($50.00) fine. The fine may be
exchanged for five (5) hours of community work service performed for the town.
(2004 Code)
8-5-2: PARK USE AFTER CURFEW:
In addition to any sanction imposed for a curfew and/or day use violation, any
person located within a town park while violating the town's curfew shall be
ordered to perform five (5) hours of community work service for the town at a
town park. (2004 Code)
8-5-3: TOBACCO FREE PARKS:
   A.   All parks owned by the town are designated and shall be "tobacco free".
   B.   No person shall smoke in any park that is owned by the town, except in
a designated smoking area.
   C.   The town manager, or authorized designee, is authorized to post signs
prohibiting smoking, except in a designated smoking area, in any park owned by
the town. The town manager, or authorized designee, is authorized to post signs
to establish one or more designated smoking area at any or all parks owned by
the town.
   D.   Violation of this section shall constitute a civil offense subject to a
fifty dollar ($50.00) fine. In the alternative, the town magistrate may order
five (5) hours of community work service performed for the town instead of the
fine described in this subsection.
   E.   The town may deposit any amounts received from fines for violation of
this section in its general fund or in such other fund or funds as the town may
determine.
   F.   "Smoke" or "smoking" means the burning of any tobacco or other
substance. (Ord. 03-2016, 5-17-2016)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING AND RESIDENTIAL CODES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: General Provisions
9-1-2: Building And Residential Codes
9-1-3: Definition
9-1-4: Compliance With Provisions
9-1-5: Water Allocation Required For Certain Residential Developments
9-1-6: Barbed Wire And Electric Fences
9-1-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Enforcement Officer; Authority: The terms "building official" or
"administrative authority" when used in this title or in any publication
adopted by reference in this title shall mean the office of the building
official; provided, however, that the town manager may appoint such deputies as
needed to perform any inspection work or other functions that may be required
by this title or the regulatory publications adopted herein. The administrative
authority, as such may be referenced in any section of this title or any
regulatory publications adopted herein, for all matters pertaining to any
building, plumbing, electrical or any other inspections, shall be vested in the
office of the town building official. The town building official shall have the
authority to develop licensing, construction and inspection procedures which
may be recommended to the council and which, upon approval by resolution, shall
become the licensing, construction and inspection procedure of the town.
   B.   Penalty For Violation Of Codes: Any person, firm or corporation
violating any of the provisions of the building code, the residential code, the
plumbing code, the electrical code, the mechanical code, the fuel gas code, the
fire code, the energy conservation code, the existing building code, the
property maintenance code or in any publication or regulatory code adopted by
reference in this title shall be guilty of a class one misdemeanor, and upon
conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine of not more than two thousand
five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) or by imprisonment in the county jail for not
more than six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 08-2009,
12-1-2009, eff. 12-31-2009)
9-1-2: BUILDING AND RESIDENTIAL CODES 1 :
   A.   Building Code Adopted: That certain document designated and marked as
the 2006 international building code, including appendices C, I and J, and
specifically excluding all other appendices contained therein, three (3) copies
of which are on file in the office of the town clerk of the town of Parker, and
those portions of that document entitled the "Parker amendments to the 2006
international building code, the 2006 international residential code, the 2006
international existing building code, the 2006 international plumbing code, the
2006 international mechanical code, the 2006 international fuel gas code, the
2006 international fire code, and the 2006 international property maintenance
code" applicable to the 2006 international building code, three (3) copies of
which are on file in the office of the town clerk of the town of Parker,
together are hereby adopted as the building code for the town of Parker by
reference as if fully set forth herein for regulating and governing the
installation, construction, remodeling, alteration, repair and conversion of
buildings within the corporate limits of the town of Parker, and it is hereby
declared to be unlawful to install, construct, erect, alter, repair, change,
move, remove, maintain or use any house, building or structure in the town of
Parker, or cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of
any of the provisions of said building code as herewith adopted by the council
of the town of Parker. (Ord. 08-2009, 12-1-2009, eff. 12-31-2009)
   B.   Amendments To Building Code; Arizonans With Disabilities Act:
      1.   Public Entities: Standards and specifications set forth in Arizona
Revised Statutes title 41, chapter 9, article 8 (Arizonans with disabilities
act), and its implementing rules, including "Americans With Disabilities Act
Accessibility Guidelines For Buildings And Facilities" declared a public record
by resolution 20-1996, as applying to public entities, are hereby adopted and
incorporated as an amendment to the international building code adopted in
subsection A of this section, and made part thereof as though fully set forth
therein. Such standards and specifications shall apply to new construction and
alterations and are not required in buildings or portions of existing buildings
that do not meet the standards and specifications. (Ord. 8-1996, 12-17-1996;
amd. Ord. 02-2005, 6-21-2005)
      2.   Public Accommodations And Commercial Facilities: Standards and
specifications set forth in Arizona Revised Statutes title 41, chapter 9,
article 8 (Arizonans with disabilities act), and its implementing rules,
including "Americans With Disabilities Act Accessibility Guidelines For
Buildings And Facilities" declared a public record by resolution 20-1996, as
applying to public accommodations and commercial facilities, are hereby adopted
and incorporated as an amendment to the international building code adopted in
subsection A of this section, and made part thereof as though fully set forth
therein. Such standards and specifications shall apply to new construction and
alterations commenced after September 3, 1996. (Ord. 8-1996, 12-17-1996)
   C.   Residential Code Adopted: That certain document designated and marked
as the 2006 international residential code and all appendices contained
therein, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the town clerk
of the town of Parker, and those portions of that document entitled the "Parker
amendments to the 2006 international building code, the 2006 international
residential code, the 2006 international existing building code, the 2006
international plumbing code, the 2006 international mechanical code, the 2006
international fuel gas code, the 2006 international fire code, and the 2006
international property maintenance code" applicable to the 2006 international
residential code, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the
town clerk of the town of Parker, together are hereby adopted as the
residential code for the town of Parker by reference as if fully set forth
herein for regulating and controlling the erection, construction, enlargement,
alteration, repair, moving, improvement, removal, equipping, use, occupying and
maintenance of any residential building on premises within the town of Parker,
and it is hereby declared to be unlawful to erect, construct, enlarge, alter,
repair, maintain, move, improve, remove, demolish, equip, use, occupy or
maintain any one- and two-family residential dwellings and multiple-family
dwellings, building or premises within the town of Parker or cause or permit
the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the provisions of
said residential code as herewith adopted by the council of the town of Parker.
   D.   Existing Building Code Adopted: That certain document designated and
marked as the 2006 international existing building code, including appendix
chapter A and specifically excluding all other appendices contained therein,
three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the town clerk of the
town of Parker, and those portions of that certain document entitled the
"Parker amendments to the 2006 international building code, the 2006
international residential code, the 2006 international existing building code,
the 2006 international plumbing code, the 2006 international mechanical code,
the 2006 international fuel gas code, the 2006 international fire code, and the
2006 international property maintenance code" applicable to the 2006
international existing building code, three (3) copies of which are on file in
the office of the town clerk of the town of Parker, together are hereby adopted
as the existing building code for the town of Parker by reference as if fully
set forth herein for regulating and governing the repair, installation,
alteration, improvement, removal, relocation of existing buildings, including
historic buildings, within the town of Parker, and it is hereby declared to be
unlawful to cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of
any of the provisions of said existing building code as herewith adopted by the
council of the town of Parker. (Ord. 08-2009, 12-1-2009, eff. 12-31-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 9-802.
9-1-3: DEFINITION:
Wherever the word "city" is used or required to define a jurisdiction in any of
the provisions of the building code, the residential code, the plumbing code,
the electrical code, the mechanical code, the fuel gas code, the fire code, the
energy conservation code, the existing building code, the property maintenance
code or in any publication or regulatory code adopted by reference in this
title, it shall be held to mean the town of Parker, Arizona. (Ord. 08-2009, 12-
1-2009, eff. 12-31-2009)
9-1-4: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
Whenever a building permit is issued and a building inspection performed, such
building must conform to the provisions of the zoning ordinance of Parker 1  in
addition to the provisions of this title. (1988 Code §
7-1-2)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10 of this code.
9-1-5: WATER ALLOCATION REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENTS 1 :
   A.   Building Construction: Under circumstances when a lot split is
requested, no building permit will be issued for any single- family or multi-
family residential units to be developed on parcels or lots within the town's
water service area in excess of the number of units permitted under applicable
zoning regulations without first obtaining a water service letter pursuant to
title 8, chapter 3, article A of this code.
   B.   Residential Subdivisions And Lot Splits: No final approval of a
residential subdivision plat by the town council nor final approval of a
residential lot split by the planning and zoning commission pursuant to this
code within the town's water service area will be granted without first
obtaining a water service letter pursuant to title 8, chapter 3, article A of
this code. (Ord. 1-1997, 2-18-1997)
 
Notes
  2. See title 8, chapter 3, article A of this code for water allocation
  management program; provisions of section 9-1-5 are derived from ordinance 1-
1 1997, effective 30 days following the execution of contract 2-07-30-W0025
  with the United States bureau of reclamation for the delivery of Colorado
  River water.
9-1-6: BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES:
   A.   Prohibited; Exemption: It is unlawful for any person to erect or
maintain within the town any electric fence or any fence constructed in whole
or in part of barbed wire; except, that barbed wire may be installed at the top
of the fence if such barbed wire is at least six feet (6') above the ground.
   B.   Nuisance Declared; Abatement: Any fence mentioned in subsection A of
this section is hereby declared a public nuisance and subject to abatement by
order of the town court. (1988 Code § 10-1-4)
CHAPTER 2
PLUMBING CODE 1
SECTION:
9-2-1: Code Adopted
9-2-2: Amendments To Code
 
Notes
1 1. ARS §§ 9-802, 9-805.
9-2-1: CODE ADOPTED:
That certain document designated and marked as the 2006 international plumbing
code, and including appendix chapters E and F, and specifically excluding all
other appendices contained therein, three (3) copies of which are on file in
the office of the town clerk of the town of Parker, and those portions of that
certain document entitled the "Parker amendments to the 2006 international
building code, the 2006 international residential code, the 2006 international
existing building code, the 2006 international plumbing code, the 2006
international mechanical code, the 2006 international fuel gas code, the 2006
international fire code, and the 2006 international property maintenance code"
applicable to the 2006 international plumbing code, three (3) copies of which
are on file in the office of the town clerk of the town of Parker, together are
hereby adopted as the plumbing code for the town of Parker by reference as if
fully set forth herein for regulating and controlling the design, construction,
quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration, repair, location,
relocation, replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of any plumbing
systems on premises within the town of Parker, and it is hereby declared to be
unlawful to cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of
said plumbing code as herewith adopted by the council of the town of Parker.
(Ord. 08-2009, 12-1-2009, eff. 12-31-2009)
9-2-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The plumbing code of the town is amended to include the following provisions:
   A.   All house drains shall terminate at least two feet (2') beyond the
building foundation, and an approved cleanout tee shall be installed. An
approved expansion coupling shall be installed on the discharge end of the
cleanout tee prior to calling for rough inspection regardless of what type of
material is used for the building sewer.
   B.   All horizontal vents exceeding ten feet (10') in length installed in
attic spaces shall be equipped with an approved expansion coupling.
   C.   All plastic DWV pipe shall be marked with the name of the manufacturer
every eighteen inches (18") and shall carry the marking of the size and the
commercial standard (#CS 270-65). It shall also be stamped with the UPC
approval every eighteen inches (18").
   D.   Approved fittings shall also be marked with the manufacturer's name and
brand and be so marked on both sides.
   E.   Joints shall be made using solvent cement recommended by the
manufacturer of the plastic pipe. (1988 Code § 7-2-2; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ELECTRICAL CODE 1
SECTION:
9-3-1: Code Adopted
9-3-2: Amendments To Code
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 9-802.
9-3-1: CODE ADOPTED:
That certain document designated and marked as the 2005 national electrical
code and including appendix chapter A, and specifically excluding all other
appendices contained therein, three (3) copies of which are on file in the
office of the town clerk of the town of Parker, is hereby adopted as the
electrical code of the town of Parker by reference as if fully set forth herein
for regulating and controlling the installing, construction, remodeling,
alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance, use and removal of houses,
buildings, structures and premises and of electrical installations of any type
whatsoever therein or thereupon within the corporate limits of the town of
Parker, and it is hereby declared to be unlawful to construct, erect, install,
remodel, alter, change, repair, convert, maintain, use, remove or demolish any
house, building, structure or premises or any electrical installation of any
type whatsoever therein or thereupon within the town of Parker, or cause or
permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of said electrical code
as herewith adopted by the council of the town of Parker. (Ord. 08-2009, 12-1-
2009, eff. 12-31-2009)
9-3-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The electrical code of the town is amended to include the following: Use of #12
AWG or larger is required for branch- circuit conductors due to fluctuation of
power and high ambient temperatures in the county. (1988 Code § 7-3-2)
CHAPTER 4
MECHANICAL AND FUEL GAS CODES
SECTION:
9-4-1: Mechanical Code Adopted
9-4-2: Fuel Gas Code Adopted
9-4-1: MECHANICAL CODE ADOPTED 1 :
That certain document designated and marked as the 2006 international
mechanical code and including appendix chapters A, B, C and D, and specifically
excluding all other appendices contained therein, three (3) copies of which are
on file in the office of the town clerk of the town of Parker, and those
portions of that certain document entitled the "Parker amendments to the 2006
international building code, the 2006 international residential code, the 2006
international existing building code, the 2006 international plumbing code, the
2006 international mechanical code, the 2006 international fuel gas code, the
2006 international fire code, and the 2006 international property maintenance
code" applicable to the 2006 international mechanical code, three (3) copies of
which are on file in the office of the town clerk of the town of Parker,
together are hereby adopted as the mechanical code of the town of Parker by
reference as if fully set forth herein for regulating and controlling the
design, erection, construction, installation, quality of materials, location,
operation, maintenance, repair, relocation, replacement, addition to and use of
any heating, ventilating, comfort cooling or refrigeration systems,
incinerators or other miscellaneous heat producing appliances, and it is hereby
declared to be unlawful to erect, install, alter, repair, add to, replace, use
or maintain heating, ventilating, comfort cooling, incinerator or refrigeration
equipment or other heat producing appliances within the town of Parker, or
cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the
provisions of said mechanical code as herewith adopted by the council of the
town of Parker. (Ord. 08-2009, 12-1-2009, eff. 12-31-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 9-802.
9-4-2: FUEL GAS CODE ADOPTED:
That certain document designated and marked as the 2006 international fuel gas
code, and including appendix chapters B and C, and specifically excluding all
other appendices contained therein, three (3) copies of which are on file in
the office of the town clerk of the town of Parker, and those portions of that
certain document entitled the "Parker amendments to the 2006 international
building code, the 2006 international residential code, the 2006 international
existing building code, the 2006 international plumbing code, the 2006
international mechanical code, the 2006 international fuel gas code, the 2006
international fire code, and the 2006 international property maintenance code"
applicable to the 2006 international fuel gas code, three (3) copies of which
are on file in the office of the town clerk of the town of Parker, together are
hereby adopted as the fuel gas code for the town of Parker by reference as if
fully set forth herein for regulating and controlling the alteration, repair,
improvement, removal, equipping, use and maintenance of any fuel gas systems
and gas fired appliances within the town of Parker, and is hereby declared to
be unlawful to cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation
of any of the provisions of said fuel gas code as herewith adopted by the
council of the town of Parker. (Ord. 08-2009, 12-1-2009, eff. 12-31-2009)
CHAPTER 5
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
9-5-1: Code Adopted
9-5-1: CODE ADOPTED 1 :
That certain document designated and marked as the 2006 international fire
code, and all appendices contained therein, three (3) copies of which are on
file in the office of the town clerk of the town of Parker, and those portions
of that certain document entitled the "Parker amendments to the 2006
international building code, the 2006 international residential code, the 2006
international existing building code, the 2006 international plumbing code, the
2006 international mechanical code, the 2006 international fuel gas code, the
2006 international fire code, and the 2006 international property maintenance
code" applicable to the 2006 international fire code, three (3) copies of which
are on file in the office of the town clerk of the town of Parker, together are
hereby adopted as the fire code for the town of Parker by reference as if fully
set forth herein for regulating and governing the safeguarding of life and
property from fire and explosion hazards arising from the storage, handling and
use of hazardous substances, materials and devices, and from conditions
hazardous to life or property in the occupancy of buildings and premises as
herein provided within the town of Parker and providing for the issuance of
permits and collection of fees therefor, and is hereby declared to be unlawful
to cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of
the provisions of said fire code as herewith adopted by the council of the town
of Parker. (Ord. 08-2009, 12-1-2009, eff. 12-31-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 9-802.
CHAPTER 6
ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
SECTION:
9-6-1: Structural Nuisances Defined
9-6-2: Enforcement And Special Assessment Lien
9-6-3: Violation; Penalties
9-6-1: STRUCTURAL NUISANCES DEFINED:
"Structural nuisances" are defined as:
   A.   Vacant structures of any description which have been open and unsecured
on two (2) or more occasions and are open and unsecured as of the date of the
notice of violation.
   B.   Vacant structures which are left open and unsecured after expiration of
a thirty (30) day notice to comply issued by the town.
   C.   Structures left standing in a secured condition without visible
occupancy and use for a period of twelve (12) months or longer; structures
which are actively being offered for sale or rent or are involved in legal
proceedings prohibiting repair, sale or lease may be excepted.
   D.   Wells, shafts, basements, cesspools, septic tanks, unsound fences,
swimming pools and other like or similar conditions, where it appears that such
are unattended and/or abandoned. (1988 Code § 7-6-1)
9-6-2: ENFORCEMENT AND SPECIAL ASSESSMENT LIEN:
In the event any nuisance is not abated, remedied or substantial work commenced
to remedy the nuisance by the owner or controlling person by the expiration of
proper notice by the town, the town may, without further notice, do the
abatement as outlined in the notice of violation and require payment for its
exact costs plus ten percent (10%) as a service fee. The town shall file with
the county recorder notice of any such undertaking and shall thereafter file a
lien for its exact costs and fees, including all known filing fees, and such
charges are hereby declared to be a special assessment against such property as
of the date the aforesaid notice of undertaking was filed and shall thereafter
be collected as any other assessment. Any notice filed as aforesaid is
effective as against subsequent owners or controllers until such notice expires
or satisfaction is filed by the town. Such lien shall draw interest of ten
percent (10%) per year. (1988 Code § 7-6-2; amd. 2004 Code)
9-6-3: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1988 Code § 7-6-3; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 7
MANUFACTURED HOMES
SECTION:
9-7-1: Purpose And Intent; Findings
9-7-2: Lots Eligible For Permit; Rights Of Owner
9-7-3: Abandonment Of Use
9-7-4: Notice Of Provisions
9-7-5: Compliance With Other Provisions; Revocation Of Permit
9-7-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT; FINDINGS:
   A.   It is the intent of the council to provide an orderly system for
manufactured home rights permits on individual lots within the town so that
existing rights can be maintained unless abandoned. It is also the intent of
the council to avoid further expansion of such uses not in conformance with the
town zoning ordinance.
   B.   Previous ordinances authorized the right to a permit to run with the
land so long as said right shall not be abandoned and included an itemized list
of the manufactured home lots that are entitled to permits.
   C.   With the passage of time, numerous and repeated applications have been
made to the manager for permits for manufactured home rights on lots that were
not included on the itemized list, and it is the desire now to provide an
orderly system whereby the request for manufactured home rights permits can be
properly controlled.
   D.   It is specifically not the intent or purpose of this chapter to
discriminate against low and moderate income families through the banning of
manufactured homes since there are other areas inside the town available for
their use. (1988 Code § 7-9-1; amd. 2004 Code)
9-7-2: LOTS ELIGIBLE FOR PERMIT; RIGHTS OF OWNER:
   A.   Only the following lots shall be eligible for manufactured home
permits:
Block No. Lot No. Block No. Lot No. Block No. Lot No.
Block No. Lot No.         Block No. Lot No.   Block No. Lot No.
45        1,2             149       2         207       9
68        1,5,6           161       7         208       11
87        2,8             166       12        209       11
116       3               167       3         210       1
118       5,8             168       3,6       217       3
119       9,12            170       31/2 of 2 226       8,3
120       2,10            172       4         227       2,5,11
122       2,4             177       4,9       234       3
124       1,2,3,4, 5,6,10 178       1         256       7
126       6,8             179       3,10      261       1,2,10
127       1,2,3           186       10        262       9
131       4,5             199       6         269       5
138       5               202       7         279       2
144       8               206       4
 
   B.   The owners or authorized representatives of such lots shall be entitled
to a manufactured home permit. The permit will include the right of the owner
of the land to keep the manufactured home on it. In the event the manufactured
home is removed from the property and replaced within thirty (30) days, said
manufactured home permit shall continue.
   C.   The council acknowledges that some of the manufactured homes are
different from those on the itemized list in previous ordinances, but it is the
specific desire of the council, in an orderly manner, to provide those who are
entitled to manufactured home rights to the same and that only those on the
list shall, from this point forward, be considered to have manufactured home
rights or the right to a permit shall have expressly terminated. (1988 Code §
7-9-2; amd. 2004 Code)
9-7-3: ABANDONMENT OF USE:
In the event the manufactured home is off the property for more than thirty
(30) days, the owner of said manufactured home shall make application to the
town manager or his designee and may receive an extension of such permit of up
to one year. Within the year, however, if a new manufactured home has not been
put on the premises, the manufactured home permit shall expire, and no future
permit shall be granted. (1988 Code § 7-9-3; amd. 2004 Code)
9-7-4: NOTICE OF PROVISIONS:
A copy of this chapter is specifically to be served on all of the owners on the
list set forth in section
9-7-2 of this chapter and permits obtained for them, said permits specifically
setting forth the information in section
9-7-3 of this chapter regarding termination. (1988 Code § 7-9-4; amd. 2004
Code)
9-7-5: COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER PROVISIONS; REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
All permit holders shall agree to comply with present and future building and
other codes adopted by the council, and failure to comply on sixty (60) days'
written notice shall entitle the town to revoke the manufactured home permit.
(1988 Code § 7-9-5; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 8
NUMBERING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
9-8-1: Numbering Required; Specifications
9-8-2: Notice To Number; Noncompliance; Penalty
9-8-1: NUMBERING REQUIRED; SPECIFICATIONS:
Every person, corporation, partnership or legal entity owning or managing any
house or building within the corporate limits of the town is hereby required to
number such house or building on its front in a conspicuous manner so that the
number may be easily discernible and read from the street. Such numbers shall
be of such style, size and material as may be approved by the mayor and council
and shall be those numbers as set forth on a map which is, by this reference,
incorporated herein in its entirety. (1988 Code art. 7-8)
9-8-2: NOTICE TO NUMBER; NONCOMPLIANCE; PENALTY:
Every owner of any house or building within the town who shall, after sixty
(60) days' written notice by the superintendent of streets, refuse or neglect
to place the proper number on his house or premises in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, shall be subject to the penalties as set forth in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1988 Code art. 7-8; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 9
ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE
SECTION:
9-9-1: Code Adopted
9-9-1: CODE ADOPTED:
That certain document designated and marked as the 2006 international energy
conservation code, and all appendices contained therein, three (3) copies of
which are on file in the office of the town clerk of the town of Parker, and
those portions of that certain document entitled the "Parker amendments to the
2006 international building code, the 2006 international residential code, the
2006 international existing building code, the 2006 international plumbing
code, the 2006 international mechanical code, the 2006 international fuel gas
code, the 2006 international fire code, and the 2006 international property
maintenance code" applicable to the 2006 international energy conservation
code, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the town clerk of
the town of Parker, together are hereby adopted as the energy conservation code
for the town of Parker by reference as if fully set forth herein for regulating
and controlling the installation, alteration, repair, improvement, removal,
equipping, use and maintenance of any energy conservation system within the
town of Parker, and it is hereby declared to be unlawful to cause or permit the
same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the provisions of said
energy conservation code as herewith adopted by the council of the town of
Parker. (Ord. 08-2009, 12-1-2009, eff. 12-31-2009)
CHAPTER 10
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION:
9-10-1: Code Adopted
9-10-1: CODE ADOPTED:
That certain document designated and marked as the 2006 international property
maintenance code, and all appendices contained therein, three (3) copies of
which are on file in the office of the town clerk of the town of Parker, and
those portions of that certain document entitled the "Parker amendments to the
2006 international building code, the 2006 international residential code, the
2006 international existing building code, the 2006 international plumbing
code, the 2006 international mechanical code, the 2006 international fuel gas
code, the 2006 international fire code, and the 2006 international property
maintenance code" applicable to the 2006 international property maintenance
code, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the town clerk of
the town of Parker, together are hereby adopted as the property maintenance
code for the town of Parker by reference as if fully set forth herein for
regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property,
buildings and structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and
facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that
structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the
condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and
the demolition of such existing structures as herein provided; and providing
for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor, and it is hereby
declared to be unlawful to cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or
in violation of any of the provisions of said property maintenance code as
herewith adopted by the council of the town of Parker. (Ord. 08-2009, 12-1-
2009, eff. 12-31-2009)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, PURPOSE AND SCOPE
SECTION:
10-1-1: Short Title
10-1-2: Authority
10-1-3: Purpose And Intent
10-1-4: Applicability
10-1-5: Conformance With The General Plan
10-1-6: Interpretation
10-1-7: Compliance
10-1-8: Transitional Provisions
10-1-9: Filing Fees
10-1-10: Enforcement
10-1-11: Violations And Penalties
10-1-12: Severability
10-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
These regulations shall be known and may be cited as the TOWN OF PARKER ZONING
ORDINANCE and will be referred to herein as "this title". All appendices,
exhibits and/or maps within this title are hereby adopted and shall be
incorporated herein as a part of this title. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-1-2: AUTHORITY:
This title is adopted pursuant to the authority contained in the Arizona
Revised Statutes section 9-462 et seq., in order to conserve and promote the
public interest, health, comfort, safety, convenience, and general welfare of
the citizens of the town of Parker. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-1-3: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   The purpose of this title and the intent of its application is to
provide the minimum requirements for the implementation of the town of Parker
general plan; to provide for procedures that respond uniformly and consistently
to development proposals; to guide, control, and regulate the future growth and
development of the town consistent with the municipal capability to provide
utilities and services; to enhance the character and the stability of the
residential, commercial, industrial, and recreational areas of the town. This
title shall further provide for the preservation of open space, adequate light
and air, avoidance of overcrowding of land and excessive concentration of
population by establishing land use classifications and by imposing regulations
on the use of land, on the location, height and bulk of buildings and
structures and by establishing standards for design and development.
   B.   This title establishes offices, boards, and commissions and defines the
power and duties of each; provides procedures for changing zoning districts and
the standards which govern those districts, variances, use permits and all
other permits required by this title; provides for enforcement, interpretation,
and appeals; prescribes penalties for violations and infractions of these
zoning regulations. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-1-4: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   The provisions of this title shall govern the development and the use
of all buildings, structures, and land within the corporate limits of the town
of Parker.
   B.   Any use not described and included by this title as being a permitted
use, a use subject to conditions, or a use subject to a conditional use permit
within a specific zoning district shall be prohibited and is a violation of
this title.
   C.   No building, structure, or land shall be used or occupied, and no
building, structure, or land shall be developed, and no permit, certificate or
license shall be issued for any building, structure, or land unless it is in
conformity with all applicable provisions of this title. Any permit,
certificate or license issued in conflict with the terms or provisions of this
title is subject to revocation and/or work stoppage order.
   D.   All changes to distinguishing traits or primary features or the use of
a building or land, as evidenced by increased parking requirements, change of
occupancy, change of outside storage, or other features, occurring to existing
properties after the effective date hereof shall be subject to all provisions
of this title. The use of a building or land shall refer to the primary or
specific purpose for which the building or land is occupied, designed,
intended, or maintained.
   E.   This title is intended to benefit the public as a whole and not any
specific person or class of persons. Although through the implementation,
administration and enforcement of this title, benefits and detriments will be
enjoyed or suffered by specific individuals, such is merely a byproduct of the
overall benefit to the whole community. Therefore, unintentional breaches of
the obligations of administration and enforcement imposed on the town of Parker
shall not be enforceable in tort. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-1-5: CONFORMANCE WITH THE GENERAL PLAN:
This title is intended to implement the goals, objectives and policies of the
"town of Parker general plan" and is hereby deemed to be in conformance with
the adopted general plan. Any amendments to or actions pursuant to this title
shall be in conformance with the general plan, as it may be amended from time
to time. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-1-6: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   The standards and restrictions established by this title shall be held
to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the general plan, and for
the interpretation and administration of the zoning regulations, standards,
restrictions, uses, procedures, enforcement, fees, administration, and all
other areas addressed herein.
   B.   This title is not intended to interfere with, abrogate, or annul any
existing provisions of other laws or ordinances, except those zoning and
building ordinances specifically repealed by this title, and providing that
they are not in conflict with this title. In the event of a conflict, the
provisions of this title shall govern. This title also is not intended to
interfere with, abrogate, or annul any private agreements between persons, such
as easements, deeds, or covenants; except, that if this title imposes higher
standards or a greater restriction on land, buildings or structures than an
otherwise applicable provision of a law, ordinance, or a private agreement, the
provisions of this title shall prevail.
   C.   Where other laws, ordinances, or private restrictions are more
restrictive, the town cannot enforce the more restrictive laws, ordinances, or
private restrictions as a part of this zoning ordinance.
   D.   This title amends the text of all other zoning ordinances previously
adopted by the town of Parker, Arizona. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-1-7: COMPLIANCE:
   A.   No building permit or other permit required by this title may be
lawfully issued nor shall a certificate of occupancy be granted until the
zoning administrator or his/her designee has given authorization indicating all
requirements of this title, all conditions and stipulations of approval, and
any other specific project related requirements have been met.
   B.   Except as specifically provided to the contrary in this title, each
review and approval required by this title shall be independent of every other
review and approval, and no review or approval shall be deemed to waive or
satisfy any other requirement set forth herein.
   C.   Where, in any specific case, different sections of this title or any
other town ordinance or code specify different requirements, the more
restrictive shall govern. Where there is conflict between a general requirement
and a specific requirement, the specific requirement shall apply. (Ord. 03-
2005, 9-6-2005)
10-1-8: TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   All conditional uses which have been legally approved and established
shall be permitted to proceed under such approvals, provided that the person,
firm, or corporation that obtained such conditional uses have also obtained
building permits for all buildings and structures to be constructed within
ninety (90) days after the effective date hereof and provided that all
construction is completed within six (6) months of the approval of such
conditional use, unless the council action approving such conditional use had a
longer period of time or unless a time extension is applied for and approved by
council.
   B.   A master planned development, a planned area development, or a
protected development rights plan, approved prior to the adoption of this
title, will guide and control the specific development for such property. The
provisions of this title shall apply to the master planned development and the
planned area development if the prior plan approval has expired.
   C.   For any building, structure, or development for which plans have been
reviewed and/or approved by the town, under the terms of the previous
ordinance, the developer has ninety (90) days from the date the town notifies
the developer that the plans are approved and/or permits are ready to be issued
to pay for said permit and commence construction. Otherwise said building,
structure, or development shall be in compliance with this title. (Ord. 03-
2005, 9-6-2005)
10-1-9: FILING FEES:
The mayor and town council of the town of Parker may from time to time
establish, and set by resolution, administrative fees considered necessary to
enforce this title and for the administration and processing of applications
for development. The developer/applicant shall, at the time of filing, pay to
the town those established fees. These fees shall be nonrefundable. (Ord. 03-
2005, 9-6-2005)
10-1-10: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The zoning administrator shall be responsible for the enforcement of
this title to further the promotion of the public health, safety, and general
welfare.
   B.   The zoning administrator shall in no case grant permission for the
issuance of any permit for the construction, reconstruction, alteration,
demolition, movement or use of any building, structure, lot, or parcel if the
zoning administrator determines that the building, structure, lot or parcel as
proposed to be constructed, reconstructed, altered, used, or moved, would be in
violation of any of the provisions of this title, unless directed to issue such
permit by the board of adjustment after interpretation of this title or the
granting of a variance. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-1-11: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Unless a specific penalty is set forth herein any person, firm, or
corporation found guilty of violating any provision of this title, or any
amendments thereto, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable as set forth in
section
1-4-1 of this code; and each day of continued violation shall be a separate
offense, punishable as described.
   B.   In addition to, or independent of, the penalties provided above, the
town may bring a civil proceeding in a court of competent jurisdiction to
enforce compliance with the terms of this title or to prevent, restrain, or
abate any violation of the terms of this title.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish,
equip, use, occupy or maintain any building, structure, or land or cause or
permit the same to be done in violation of this title. It shall also be
unlawful for any person to violate any provision designated as a condition of
approval either by the plan review process or through an amendment, conditional
use permit, temporary use permit, variance, site plan, or appeal by an office,
board, commission, or the town council as established by this title. (Ord. 03-
2005, 9-6-2005)
10-1-12: SEVERABILITY:
   A.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision of
this title to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any other provisions
of this title not specifically included in said judgment.
   B.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the
application of any provision of this title to a particular property, building,
or other structure, such judgment shall not affect the application of said
provision to any other property, building or structure not specifically
included in said judgment. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
10-2-1: Town Council
10-2-2: Planning And Zoning Commission
10-2-3: Board Of Adjustment
10-2-4: Zoning Administrator
10-2-1: TOWN COUNCIL:
The mayor and town council ("council") shall have the following powers and
duties, pursuant to the terms of this title:
   A.   To hear, review and consider recommendations of the planning and zoning
commission on zoning applications, use permits, and appeals, in accordance with
the provisions of this title.
   B.   To initiate, hear, review and adopt amendments to the zoning district
map after recommendation by the planning and zoning commission in accordance
with the provisions of this title.
   C.   To initiate, hear, review and adopt amendments to the text of this
title after the recommendation by the planning and zoning commission, in
accordance with the provisions of this title.
   D.   To initiate, adopt, and amend the general plan, including the text,
maps and exhibits, and all elements of the general plan, after recommendation
by the planning and zoning commission in accordance with the provisions of this
title.
   E.   To take such action not expressly delegated exclusively to the zoning
administrator, the planning and zoning commission, or the board of adjustment
as the town council may deem desirable and necessary to implement the
provisions of this title and the general plan. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-2-2: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
   A.   Establishment: There is hereby established, pursuant to Arizona Revised
Statutes section 9-461.01 et seq., a planning agency known as the town of
Parker planning and zoning commission ("commission").
   B.   Powers: The commission is the planning agency for the town and has the
powers to enable it to fulfill its planning function, in accordance with the
Arizona Revised Statutes. The commission shall provide an advisory function to
assist the town council in making decisions pertaining to amendments to the
general plan and this title, and applications for development approval. In no
event is the commission authorized to render a final decision approving,
denying, or conditionally approving a change in this title or general plan, or
to render a final decision on an application for development approval, except
as otherwise authorized in this section.
   C.   Duties: In addition to any authority granted to the commission by
Arizona law, other ordinances of the town or by this title, the commission
shall have the following powers and duties:
      1.   To hold public hearings when necessary or when required by law.
      2.   To initiate, hear, review, and make recommendations to the town
council regarding applications for amendments to the general plan or area
specific plans, in accordance with the provisions of this title. On an annual
basis review and make recommendations to the mayor and council concerning the
general plan as well as plans for the development of any land outside the
town's planning area, which, in the opinion of the commission, is substantially
related to the planning of the town.
      3.   To make recommendations to the town council on all matters
concerning or relating to the creation of zoning ordinances, the zoning
district map, the boundaries thereof, the appropriate regulations to be
enforced therein, and amendments of this title, and to undertake any other
activities usually associated therewith and commonly known as "planning and
zoning".
      4.   To initiate, hear and review applications for amendments to either
the zoning district map and/or the text of this title, in accordance with the
provisions of this title.
      5.   To serve as the advisory body to the town council on such matters as
applications for site plan review, conditional use permits, protected
development rights plans, and any other permit or review process in accordance
with the provisions of this title.
      6.   To hear, review and decide on subdivision preliminary plats and
minor lot splits, in accordance with the provisions of the town's subdivision
ordinance.
      7.   To confer and advise with other town or city, county, regional, or
state planning agencies and commissions.
   D.   Membership: The commission shall consist of seven (7) members, all
residents of the town, who shall be appointed by, and serve at the pleasure of,
the town council.
   E.   Term Of Office: The term of office of the members of the commission
shall be three (3) years, with the terms of members so staggered that the terms
of no more than three (3) members shall expire (on January 1) in any one year.
The incumbent commissioner shall continue to serve, after his or her term of
office has expired, until a successor has been appointed. In the event of a
death, resignation, or removal from the commission, a resident appointed by the
town council shall fill the vacancy for the unexpired term.
   F.   Nonattendance: Three (3) successive unexcused absences from any regular
or special meeting shall be grounds for termination at the will and pleasure of
the town council without the necessity of a hearing or notice, and such action
shall be final and the position shall thereupon be declared vacant.
   G.   Organization:
      1.   Officers: The commission shall elect a chairperson and vice
chairperson from among its own members at its first meeting in January each
year. The chairperson shall preside at all meetings and shall take such actions
as necessary to preserve order and the integrity of all proceedings before the
commission. The vice chairperson shall perform the duties of the chairperson in
the latter's absence or disability.
      2.   Meetings: Meetings of the commission shall be open to the public.
Public input shall be permitted in public meetings on matters before the
commission. The minutes of the proceedings, showing the vote of each member and
records of its examinations and other official actions, shall be kept and filed
in the office of the town clerk as a public record.
      3.   Quorum: Four (4) members of the commission shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of business. No matter may be considered by the commission
unless there are four (4) or more members present who are eligible/qualified to
vote on the matter. The affirmative vote of at least the majority of the quorum
present and voting shall be required to pass a motion. If a member has been
present for the entire presentation of an issue, that member may abstain from
voting only because he or she has a conflict of interest. If a member has a
conflict of interest, he or she shall declare said conflict of interest prior
to the presentation and shall abstain from all discussion and deliberation on
the matter in question.
      4.   Rules And Regulations: The commission shall follow the current
edition of "Robert's Rules Of Order" for the conduct of its meetings in the
event of a procedural dispute. The commission may make and publish bylaws to
govern its proceedings and to provide for its meetings. The bylaws are to be
reviewed by the town attorney and approved by the town council.
   H.   Compensation: The members of the commission shall serve without
compensation. The commissioners may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred
in connection with their duties upon authorization or ratification by the
commission and approval of such expenditures by the town manager. (Ord. 03-
2005, 9-6-2005)
10-2-3: BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT:
   A.   Establishment: There is hereby established, pursuant to Arizona Revised
Statutes section 9-462.06 et seq., a town of Parker board of adjustment
("board").
   B.   Powers And Duties: In addition to any authority granted to the board of
adjustment by Arizona law, the board shall have the following powers and
duties:
      1.   To hear and decide appeals in which it is alleged that there is an
error in an order, requirement or decision made by the zoning administrator in
the enforcement of this title. This power shall include the power to reverse,
affirm, or modify, wholly or partly, any order, requirement or decision of the
zoning administrator properly appealed to the board, and make such order,
requirement, decision or determination as is necessary.
      2.   To hear and decide requests for variances from the terms of this
title, only if, because of special circumstances applicable to the property,
including its size, shape, topography, location, or surroundings, the strict
application of this title will deprive such property of privileges enjoyed by
other property of the same classification in the same zoning district. Any
variance granted is subject to such conditions as will assure that the
adjustment authorized shall not constitute a grant of special privileges
inconsistent with the limitations upon other properties in the same zoning
district in which such property is located.
      3.   A variance from the terms of this title may only be granted, upon
the presentation of evidence demonstrating that the specific requirements
established by state statutes have been satisfied:
         a.   There exists special circumstances or conditions regarding the
land, or building for which the variance or adjustment is sought, which do not
apply generally to other land or buildings in the same zoning district; and
         b.   The above special circumstances or conditions are preexisting and
are not created or self-imposed; and
         c.   The variance is necessary for the preservation of substantial
property rights. Without a variance the property cannot be used for purposes
otherwise allowed in the same zoning district and the variance or adjustment,
as granted, is the minimum adjustment that will accomplish this purpose; and
         d.   The granting of the adjustment will not be materially detrimental
to persons residing or working in the vicinity, to adjacent property, or to the
neighborhood or the public welfare.
      4.   The board of adjustment may not:
         a.   Make any changes in the uses permitted in any zoning
classification or zoning district, or
         b.   Make any changes in the terms of this title, provided the
restrictions in this subsection shall not affect the authority to grant
variances pursuant to state statutes.
   C.   Membership: The board shall consist of five (5) members who shall be
residents of the town of Parker. All members shall be appointed by, and serve
at the pleasure of, the town council.
   D.   Term Of Office: The term of office of the members of the board shall be
three (3) years, with the terms of members so staggered that the terms of no
more than two (2) members shall expire on January 1 in any one year. The
incumbent members shall continue to serve, after their term of office has
expired, until a successor has been appointed. In the event of a death,
resignation, or removal from the board, the town council shall fill the vacancy
for the unexpired term.
   E.   Nonattendance: Two (2) successive unexcused absences from any regular
meeting shall be grounds for termination at the will and pleasure of the town
council without the necessity of a hearing or notice, and such action shall be
final and the position shall thereupon be declared vacant.
   F.   Organization Of Board Of Adjustment:
      1.   Chairpersons: The board shall elect a chairperson and a vice
chairperson from the members of the board at the first meeting held in each
calendar year. The chairperson shall preside at all meetings, administer oaths
and take evidence. The vice chairperson shall perform the duties of the
chairperson in the latter's absence or disability.
      2.   Meetings: Meetings of the board of adjustment will be called as
needed by the chair of the board. Meetings of the board shall be open to the
public and public input shall be taken at the discretion of the chairman. The
minutes of the proceedings, showing the votes of each member and records of its
examinations and other official actions, shall be kept and filed in the office
of the town clerk as a public record.
      3.   Quorum: Three (3) members of the board shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of business. No matter may be considered by the board unless
there are three (3) or more members present who are eligible/qualified to vote
on the matter. The affirmative vote of at least the majority of the quorum
present and voting shall be required to pass a motion. If a member has been
present for the entire presentation of an issue, that member may abstain from
voting only because he or she has a conflict of interest. If a member has a
conflict of interest, he or she shall declare said conflict of interest prior
to the presentation and shall abstain from all discussion and deliberation on
the matter in question.
      4.   Rules And Regulations: The board shall follow the current edition of
"Robert's Rules Of Order" for the conduct of its meetings in the event of a
procedural dispute. The board may make and publish bylaws to govern its
proceedings and to provide for its meetings. The bylaws are to be reviewed by
the town attorney and approved by the town council.
   G.   Appeals Of Board Of Adjustment Decision: A person aggrieved by a
decision of the board of adjustment or an officer or department of the town of
Parker affected by a decision of the board may, at any time within thirty (30)
days after the board has rendered its decision, file a complaint for special
action in superior court to review the board's decision.
   H.   Compensation: The members of the board shall serve without
compensation. The board members may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred
in connection with their duties upon authorization or ratification by the board
and approval of such expenditures by the town manager. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-2-4: ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Establishment: Pursuant to Arizona Revised Statutes section 9-462, the
staff position of zoning administrator is hereby established for the general
and specific administration of this title. The zoning administrator is charged
with the enforcement of this title. During any period that the position of
zoning administrator is vacant, the town manager or his/her designated
representative shall perform the duties of the zoning administrator.
   B.   Powers: The zoning administrator shall possess all powers of a zoning
administrator under this title and Arizona law and shall perform such duties as
are set forth under the direction of the town manager.
   C.   Duties Of The Zoning Administrator: The zoning administrator shall have
the following duties:
      1.   To establish rules, procedures and forms to provide for processing
of applications or requests for action under the provisions of this title.
      2.   To accomplish all administrative actions required by this title,
including the giving of notice, scheduling of hearings, preparation of reports,
receiving and processing appeals, the acceptance and accounting of fees, and
the rejection or approval of site plans as provided in other provisions of this
title.
      3.   To provide advice and recommendations to the planning and zoning
commission, the board of adjustment, and the town council with respect to
applications and requests for approvals and permits required by this title.
      4.   To assure that any development or use proceed only in accordance to
the terms, conditions, or requirements as established by the town's board(s),
commission or council as a term, condition, or requirement of development and/
or permit approval.
      5.   To direct such inspections, observations and analyses of any and all
erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair or use of buildings,
structures or land within the town as is necessary to fulfill the purposes and
procedures set forth in this title. No building shall be occupied until such
time as the zoning administrator has issued a letter of compliance with this
title.
      6.   To take such action as is necessary for the enforcement of this
title with respect to any violations of this title.
      7.   To interpret this title to the public, town departments, and other
branches of government, subject to the supervision of the town manager and
general or specific policies established by the town council.
      8.   To undertake preliminary discussions with, and provide nonlegal
advice to, applicants requesting zoning adjustment action.
      9.   To determine the location of any district boundary shown on the
zoning map adopted as part of this title when such location is in dispute.
The zoning administrator may, due to the complexity of any matter, unless
otherwise noted herein, refer a permit application to the planning and zoning
commission for recommendation.
   D.   Limitations Of Zoning Administrator: The zoning administrator may not
make any changes in the uses permitted in any zoning classification or zoning
district or make any changes in the terms of this title.
   E.   Appeals:
      1.   Any person aggrieved or affected by a decision of the zoning
administrator may appeal to the board of adjustment, by filing a written
request with the zoning administrator. Upon receiving a written appeal, the
zoning administrator shall transmit to the board of adjustment all papers and
pertinent data related to the appeal.
      2.   An appeal under this section must be filed within ten (10) working
days from the date the zoning administrator has notified the applicant, in
writing, of his/her decision. If no appeal is filed within the time specified,
the decision of the zoning administrator shall be final.
   F.   Submittal Requirements: To allow an opportunity for staff input and
proper evaluation, all requests for action by the planning and zoning
commission, or board of adjustment, shall be filed with the zoning
administrator. All requests shall be in a form required by the zoning
administrator and in a manner provided in this title or in rules or regulations
approved by resolution of the town council.
   G.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal to the board of adjustment stays all
proceedings in the matter appealed from, unless the zoning administrator
certifies to the board that, based on the facts stated, a stay would cause
imminent peril to life or property. Upon such certification, proceedings shall
not be stayed except by restraining order granted by the board or by a court of
record on application and notice to the zoning administrator. Proceedings shall
not be stayed if the appeal requests relief, which has previously been denied
by the board, except pursuant to a special action in superior court as provided
for in state law. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
CHAPTER 3
ZONING PROCEDURES
SECTION:
10-3-1: General Procedural Requirements
10-3-2: Notification For Public Hearings
10-3-3: Zoning Text Amendment And Zoning Map Changes
10-3-4: Conditional Use Permits
10-3-5: Temporary Use Permits
10-3-6: Variances And Appeals
10-3-7: Site Plan Review
10-3-8: Specific Area Plans
10-3-9: General Plan Amendments
10-3-1: GENERAL PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Application Process: The purpose of this chapter is to provide
procedures for the various requests for amendments to the text of this title,
amendments to the official zoning map(s), use permits, variances or appeals,
site plan review, and general plan amendments. The specific procedures followed
in reviewing the various applications differ. The procedures for all
applications have three (3) common elements: 1) submittal of a completed town
application, including required fee payment along with appropriate information;
2) review of the submittal by appropriate town staff, agencies, commission, and
boards; and 3) action to approve, approve with conditions, or deny the
application. In order to have an application accepted by the town, the
applicant shall progress through the following steps:
      1.   Preapplication Conference: The applicant shall meet with the zoning
administrator to discuss the nature of the proposed application, the specific
submittal requirements, the procedure for action, and the standards for
evaluation of the application.
      2.   Sketch Plan: The applicant, at the time of the preapplication
conference, shall provide the zoning administrator with a sketch plan depicting
the boundaries of the property being considered and a tentative development
proposal for the property.
      3.   Formal Submittal: The applicant shall submit all of the required
materials to the zoning administrator. Only complete applications/submittal
packages shall be accepted.
   B.   Notice Provisions: The notice requirements for each type of application
for development approval are prescribed in the individual subsections of this
chapter. When the zoning administrator determines that a development
application/submittal package is complete, the zoning administrator shall cause
the public notice of the hearing to be made at the expense of the applicant.
   C.   Citizen Review Process: In accordance with Arizona Revised Statutes
section 9-462.03, the applicant for any and all rezoning and amendment or
adoption of a specific plan application shall, as a prerequisite to the
planning and zoning commission hearing, conduct a neighborhood meeting. The
purpose of the meeting is to provide information to the adjacent property
owners and residents and to allow the neighbors and residents to express any
issues or concerns that they may have with the proposed rezoning or specific
plan application before the public hearing is conducted. The applicant is
required to notify all landowners within three hundred feet (300') of the
boundaries of the proposed development, the town of Parker, and any
neighborhood associations on record with the town by first class mail of the
scheduled neighborhood meeting. This notice shall state the date, time, and
place of the neighborhood meeting and shall include a general explanation of
the application. The form of notice may vary according to the specific type of
application, and a more extensive method of notice may be deemed necessary by
the zoning administrator. The applicant shall submit a copy of the
notification, documentation of the attendees, minutes of the meeting, and all
concerns and issues identified by those attendees to the zoning administrator
for inclusion in the staff report. All meetings shall be held within the town
of Parker corporate limits and at a time of day most conducive to the public.
Failure to conduct a neighborhood meeting shall cause an application to be
held/delayed until such meeting has been held.
   D.   Planning And Zoning Commission: The planning and zoning commission
shall hold regularly scheduled public hearings to receive and review public
input on those items required by this title. On those items where the
commission has review authority only, the commission shall make a
recommendation to the town council that the council: 1) approve; 2) approve
with conditions; or 3) deny an application. The commission's recommendations
and actions shall be based on consideration of the following evidence and
analysis including, but not limited to, all of the following:
      1.   Conformance with this title, and adopted town standards and
policies;
      2.   Compliance with the town of Parker general plan and other adopted
specific area plans;
      3.   Staff recommendations;
      4.   Outside reviewing agency input;
      5.   Public input and testimony received during the citizen review
session and at the hearing; and
      6.   Overall effects of the proposal on the neighborhood, area, and
community at large.
   E.   Town Council: The town council shall hold regularly scheduled public
hearings to act upon all items required by this title. The town council shall
decide whether or not to: 1) approve; 2) approve with conditions; or 3) deny an
application. Action on those items heard will be based on consideration of
evidence presented including, but not limited to, all of the following:
      1.   Planning and zoning commission recommendations;
      2.   Conformance with this title, and adopted town standards and
policies;
      3.   Compliance with the Parker general plan and other adopted specific
area plans;
      4.   Staff recommendations;
      5.   Outside reviewing agency input;
      6.   Public input and testimony received at the hearing; and
      7.   Overall effects of the proposal on the neighborhood, area, and
community at large.
   F.   Scope Of Action: The reviewing body may take any action on the
application that is consistent with the notice given, including approval of the
application, conditional approval of the application or denial of the
application. The reviewing body may allow amendments to the application if the
effect of the amendments is to allow a less intense change than that requested
on the original application or to reduce the impact of the development or to
reduce the amount of land involved from that indicated in the notices of the
hearing. The reviewing body shall not, in any case, permit a greater amount of
development, or a use falling in a different general use category, or a larger
land area than indicated in the original application, or a greater variance
than was indicated in the notice.
   G.   Records: The town shall provide for minutes to be written and retained,
shall record the evidence submitted, all staff and advisory board reports and/
or recommendations, and shall include a summary of the consideration and the
action of the commission, board, and council. All such records shall be public
records, open for inspection at reasonable times and upon reasonable notice.
Public records are to be retained in accordance with Arizona Revised Statutes
public retention requirements. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-3-2: NOTIFICATION FOR PUBLIC HEARINGS:
   A.   Notification of public hearing(s) required for zoning text amendments
and zoning amendments (rezoning) shall be subject to notice requirements as set
forth in Arizona Revised Statutes section 9-462.04 and herein described. Any
changes to Arizona law notice requirements shall have control over this
provision in the manner of providing notice.
Notice of the date, time, and place of the hearing including a general
explanation of the matter to be considered and including a general description
of the area affected shall be given at least fifteen (15) days before the
hearing in the following manner:
      1.   The notice shall be published at least once in a newspaper of
general circulation published or circulated in the town of Parker, or if there
is none, it shall be posted on the affected property in such a manner as to be
legible from the public right or way and in at least ten (10) public places in
the town. A posted notice shall be printed so that the following are visible
from a distance of one hundred feet (100'): the word "zoning"; the present
zoning district classification; the proposed zoning district classification;
and the date and time of the public hearing.
      2.   In proceedings involving rezoning of land, which abuts other
municipalities or unincorporated areas of the county or a combination thereof,
copies of the notice of public hearing shall be transmitted to the planning
agency of such governmental unit abutting such land. In addition to notice by
publication, the town may give notice of the hearing in such other manner as it
may deem necessary or desirable.
      3.   In proceedings that are not initiated by the property owner
involving rezoning of land which may change the zoning classification, notice
by first class mail shall be sent to each real property owner, as shown on the
last assessment of the property, of the area to be rezoned. In all rezoning
proceedings, notice by first class mail shall be sent to all property owners,
as shown on the last assessment of the property, within three hundred feet
(300') of the property to be rezoned.
      4.   In proceedings involving one or more of the following proposed
changes or related series of changes in the standards governing land uses,
notice shall be provided in the manner prescribed by subsection A5 of this
section:
         a.   A ten percent (10%) or more increase or decrease in the number of
square feet or units that may be developed.
         b.   A ten percent (10%) or more increase or reduction in the
allowable height of buildings.
         c.   An increase or reduction in the allowable number of stories of
buildings.
         d.   A ten percent (10%) or more increase or decrease in setback or
open space requirements.
         e.   An increase or reduction in permitted uses.
      5.   In proceedings governed by subsection A4 of this section, the town
shall provide notice to real property owners pursuant to at least one of the
following notification procedures:
         a.   Notice shall be sent by first class mail to each real property
owner, as shown on the last assessment, whose real property is directly
governed by the changes.
         b.   If the town issues utility bills or other mass mailings that
periodically include notices or other informational or advertising materials,
the town shall include notice of such changes with such utility bills or other
mailings.
         c.   The town shall publish such changes prior to the first hearing on
such changes in a newspaper of general circulation in the town. The changes
shall be published in a "display ad" covering not less the one-eighth (1/8) of
a full page.
      6.   If notice is provided pursuant to subsections A5b or A5c of this
section, the town shall also send notice by first class mail to persons who
register their names and addresses with the town as being interested in
receiving such notice. The town may charge a fee not to exceed five dollars
($5.00) per year for providing this service and may adopt procedures to
implement this provision.
      7.   Notwithstanding the notice requirements set forth in subsection A5
of this section, the failure of any person or entity to receive notice shall
not constitute grounds for any court to invalidate the actions of the town for
which the notice was given.
   B.   Notification for conditional use permits shall also follow the
requirements set forth in Arizona Revised Statutes section 9-462.04, as
described above.
   C.   Notification for variance requests shall follow the requirements set
forth in Arizona Revised Statutes section 9-462.06. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-3-3: ZONING TEXT AMENDMENT AND ZONING MAP CHANGES:
   A.   Purpose: In accordance with the provisions of Arizona law, the town
council may from time to time adopt text amendments to this title and/or amend
the official zoning map(s). Any person, town staff, commission and town council
may bring about amendments to the text of this title. Only the landowner, town
staff, commission or town council, may bring about amendments to the zoning
map.
   B.   Application: Before the town accepts any applications, the petitioner
shall schedule and attend a preapplication meeting. The purpose of the
preapplication meeting is to discuss, in general, the procedures and
requirements for either a zoning text amendment or a zoning change (rezoning)
pursuant to these regulations. Subsequent to the preapplication meeting, all
applications shall be filed on a form provided by the zoning administrator and
shall be accompanied by the required fee and all required materials as outlined
in this title and/or on the application. Depending upon the specifics of the
amendment or rezoning, additional materials or studies may be required by the
town in order to adequately review the application.
   C.   Initiation Of Zoning Text Amendment: Any person may request an
amendment of the text of this title, after a preapplication meeting is held, by
filing a completed application and submitting the required fee with the town.
The application must state the exact section of this title proposed for
amendment, the proposed substitute wording, and the reasons for requesting the
amendment. Graphic material should also be submitted if it would assist in
understanding the benefits of the amendment.
   D.   Initiation Of A Zoning Map Change (Rezoning): An owner of real property
within the town, or that owner's authorized representative, may, upon proof of
ownership, apply for a change in zoning district boundaries (rezoning) for that
landowner's property. The commission or the town council, on its own motion at
a public meeting, may initiate such amendments. In the case where the rezoning
application filed by a private property owner includes other property, in
addition to that owned by the petitioner, the application shall include the
signatures of the real property owners representing at least seventy five
percent (75%) of the land in the area proposed to be changed.
   E.   Submittal Requirements: All zoning map changes (rezoning) applications
shall comply with the submittal requirements outlined herein and those on the
application:
      1.   A map showing the particular property or properties for which the
rezoning application is being requested and the adjacent properties, buildings
and structures, land uses, and public streets and ways within a radius of three
hundred feet (300') of the exterior boundaries thereof.
      2.   A detailed land use/development plan at a scale of one inch equals
one hundred feet (1" = 100') which at a minimum shall include the following:
         a.   A site plan drawn to scale and in such a manner as to indicate
clearly and precisely what is planned for the subject property including the
location and arrangement of all proposed uses.
         b.   The location, arrangement and dimensions of all proposed lots.
         c.   Topography showing existing and proposed grades and drainage
systems, and natural and manmade features with indication as to which are being
retained and which are to be altered or removed.
         d.   All buildings and structures existing and proposed.
         e.   Proposed block layout, street system, street dedications,
improvements and utility plans.
         f.   The traffic and the pedestrian circulation system, including the
location and width of all streets, driveways, entrances to parking areas and
parking structures, walkways and bicycle paths.
         g.   Off street parking facilities, including number of spaces and
dimensions of parking area, loading bays and service access drives and
landscaping for the parking areas.
         h.   The amount of open space provided, the location and type of open
space, the proposed reservation for parks, parkways, playgrounds, recreation
areas, pedestrian access and other open space.
         i.   Proposed landscaping, including size, type and location; the
native vegetation that will be salvaged; walls and fences; outdoor lighting;
signs; and outdoor storage and activities.
      3.   The town reserves the right to require additional information and
material, and to require the submission of studies in order to adequately
review the request. Additional submittal requirements for the overlay zoning
districts (e.g., master plan developments, planned area developments and
protected development rights plans) may be found in the specific chapter
addressing these types of developments herein.
   F.   Procedures:
      1.   A preapplication conference shall be scheduled and attended by the
applicant with the zoning administrator to discuss the proposal.
      2.   The petitioner shall submit a completed application, the required
fees, and all materials and studies related to the development plan or the
proposed text amendment.
      3.   Once the zoning administrator has determined that the application
package is complete and all necessary information has been submitted, the
application will be forwarded to the appropriate reviewing agencies and town
departments for comments and a public hearing will be scheduled.
      4.   As a prerequisite to the commission hearing, but only for a rezoning
and/or specific plan application, the applicant shall conduct a neighborhood
meeting in accordance with the requirements of Arizona Revised Statutes section
9-462.03 and the provisions outlined in subsection 10-3-1C of this chapter.
      5.   The commission, in accordance with the requirements of Arizona
Revised Statutes section 9-462.04, shall conduct a public hearing. Notification
of the public hearing shall be provided as set forth in Arizona Revised
Statutes section 9-462.04 and section
10-3-2 of this chapter.
      6.   The commission shall render a decision in the form of a written
recommendation for: a) approval, b) approval with conditions, or c) denial of
the petitioned rezoning or zoning text amendment. The recommendation shall then
be forwarded to the mayor and council unless withdrawn in writing by the
applicant.
      7.   The town council shall: a) approve, b) approve with conditions, or
c) deny the text amendment or rezoning request. Approval of a petition to
rezone land may not be enacted as an emergency measure and the rezoning shall
not become effective for at least thirty (30) days after town council approval.
      8.   When an application for rezoning is accompanied by an application
for a conditional use permit or subdivision plat approval, both applications
may be processed and reviewed concurrently. If the proposed rezoning is not in
compliance with the Parker general plan - land use plan, an application for an
amendment to the land use plan shall be submitted by the applicant in
accordance with Arizona Revised Statutes section 9-461.06, the Parker general
plan, and section
10-3-9 of this chapter.
   G.   Protest: A super majority of town council votes, three-fourths (3/4),
prescribed by Arizona Revised Statutes section 9-462.04, shall be required if a
protest petition is filed in accordance with said statute. The protest petition
shall be filed in writing with the town clerk at or before twelve o'clock (12:
00) noon on the date of the town council hearing.
   H.   Subsequent Applications: In the event that an application for amendment
is denied by the town council or that the application is withdrawn after the
commission hearing, the commission shall not accept another application for the
same amendment within twelve (12) months of the original hearing unless agreed
to by a super majority three-fourths (3/4) vote of the commission. (Ord. 03-
2005, 9-6-2005)
10-3-4: CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS:
   A.   Purpose: Conditional uses are those uses which are generally compatible
with the land uses permitted by right in a zoning district, but which require
individual review of their location, design and configuration and the
imposition of conditions in order to ensure the appropriateness of the use at a
particular location within a given zoning district.
   B.   Application:
      1.   Only those uses that are enumerated as conditional uses in a zoning
district, as set forth in this title, shall be authorized by the town council.
A conditional use permit shall not be required for a use allowed as a permitted
use in a given zoning district. No conditional use shall be established until a
site plan has been approved in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   Before the town shall accept any application, the applicant shall
schedule and attend a preapplication meeting. The purpose of the preapplication
meeting is to discuss, in general, the procedures and requirements for a
conditional use permit pursuant to these regulations. Subsequent to the
preapplication meeting, all applications shall be filed on a form provided by
the zoning administrator and shall be accompanied by the required fee and all
required materials as outlined in this title and/or on the application.
Depending upon the specific circumstances of the use, additional materials may
be required by the town in order to adequately review the application.
   C.   Submittal Requirements: All conditional use permit applications shall
comply with the submittal requirements outlined in subsection
10-3-3E of this chapter and those on the application.
   D.   Procedures: All conditional use permits shall be processed in
accordance with subsection
10-3-3F of this chapter.
   E.   Approval Criteria: As may be specified within each zoning district,
uses permitted subject to a conditional use permit shall be permitted only
after review and recommendation by the commission and review and approval by
the town council and only if the applicant demonstrates that:
      1.   The proposed conditional use shall be in compliance with all
regulations of the applicable zoning district, design standards, or general
provision requirements of this title.
      2.   The establishment, maintenance, or operation of the proposed use
shall not be detrimental to the health, safety, peace, comfort and general
welfare of persons residing or working in the surrounding land nor be noxious
or offensive by reason of vibration, noise, odor, dust, smoke or gas.
      3.   The proposed use shall not be materially injurious to properties or
improvements nor diminish or impair property values in the immediate vicinity.
      4.   The proposed use will be served by ingress and egress routes that
minimize traffic congestion, shall not burden the existing and anticipated
traffic conditions including parking facilities on adjacent streets and land,
and will be served by adequate public utilities.
      5.   The proposed use shall not impede the normal and orderly development
and improvement of surrounding property for uses permitted in the underlying
zoning district and shall be in compliance with the Parker general plan adopted
by the town.
      6.   The proposed use is necessary or desirable or provides a service or
facility that contributes to the general well being of the area.
      7.   The proposed use shall not create more adverse impacts on existing
uses in the surrounding areas than those which reasonably might result from
development of the site with a use that is permitted by right in the underlying
zoning district.
   F.   Validity Limit:
      1.   Approval shall become effective immediately.
      2.   The conditional use permit shall become null and void if the use
permit has not been exercised and the use established within six (6) months of
the date of approval. A conditional use permit is exercised when the use has
been established or when a building permit has been issued, construction
commenced, and the building permit remains valid.
      3.   If such use is abandoned or discontinued for a period of twelve (12)
consecutive months, it may not be reestablished unless reauthorized by the
commission and town council.
      4.   Amendments to conditional use permits shall be processed in the same
manner as the original permit, except that minor amendments may be authorized
by the zoning administrator.
      5.   If an application is denied, the denial shall constitute a finding
that the applicant has not shown that the conditions required for approval do
exist. No application for a conditional use permit which has been denied wholly
or in part shall be resubmitted for a period of twelve (12) months from the
date of said order of denial, unless agreed to by a super majority three-
fourths (3/4) vote of the commission. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-3-5: TEMPORARY USE PERMITS:
   A.   Purpose: The temporary use permit is a mechanism by which the town may
allow a use to locate within the town on a short term basis and by which it may
allow seasonal or transient uses not otherwise allowed. Permanent structures
shall not be permitted under a temporary use permit. Permissible temporary uses
are those delineated within the individual zoning districts of this title.
Prior to conducting or establishing a temporary use, a temporary use permit
must be approved and secured from the town of Parker.
   B.   Application:
      1.   Before the town shall accept any applications, the applicant shall
schedule and attend a preapplication meeting. The purpose of the preapplication
meeting is to discuss, in general, the procedures and requirements for a
temporary use permit pursuant to these regulations. All applications shall be
filed with the zoning administrator on a form provided by the town and shall be
accompanied by the required fee and all required materials as outlined in this
title and/or on the application. Depending upon the specific circumstances of
the temporary use, additional materials may be required by the town in order to
adequately review the application. Only complete applications shall be
accepted.
      2.   Every temporary use permit issued shall be applicable only to the
specific use, specific person, entity or organization, and to the specific
property for which it is issued.
      3.   Approval of the temporary use permit by the town does not waive any
other county or state approvals that may be required.
   C.   Submittal Requirements: All temporary use permit applications shall
comply with the submittal requirements as outlined on the application form
obtained from the town and shall be submitted to the zoning administrator not
less than fifteen (15) days nor more than thirty (30) days prior to the desired
start date of the temporary use permit.
   D.   Procedures:
      1.   The zoning administrator shall review the application in accordance
with the criteria outlined in subsection E of this section. The zoning
administrator shall solicit review comments in accordance with general review
procedures.
      2.   The zoning administrator shall not approve or modify and approve an
application for a temporary use permit unless the following criteria, specific
regulations, and time limitations are met.
      3.   If the zoning administrator denies the temporary use permit the
applicant may appeal the administrator's decision to the board of adjustment.
   E.   Approval Criteria: The zoning administrator or, upon appeal, the board
of adjustment shall have the authority to require such reasonable conditions as
necessary to protect the public health, safety and general welfare and to
ensure that the use, value and qualities of the neighborhood surrounding the
proposed location will not be adversely affected. Approval shall be based on
the review of the following criteria:
      1.   Traffic: The location of the temporary use or structure is such that
adverse effects on surrounding properties will be minimal with regards to the
type of traffic generated, the amount of traffic generated, or the impact upon
the traffic circulation in the area.
      2.   Parking And Access: Adequate off street parking will be provided to
serve the use without displacing the required off street parking spaces or
loading areas of the principal permitted use on the site. The entrance and exit
drives will be designed to prevent traffic hazards and nuisances.
      3.   Signage: Signage for temporary uses shall only be displayed within
the time frame for which the temporary use permit is valid and only with a sign
permit issued in accordance with this title.
      4.   Number On Parcel: Only one temporary use permit shall be permitted
per parcel or lot at any given time.
   F.   Validity Limit:
      1.   The temporary use permit shall be valid for the use for which the
permit was granted for the length of time indicated on the permit as long as
the use is in compliance with the conditions of approval and other applicable
ordinances.
      2.   A temporary use permit for a temporary structure shall be limited to
a period of time not to exceed six (6) months from the date of approval unless
otherwise outlined in this title. The temporary use permit may be renewed
provided that the property owner submits satisfactory evidence to the zoning
administrator that the need for such temporary structure continues to exist.
      3.   In no case shall the termination date of a temporary use permit be
automatically extended as a result of a delay on the applicant's part to comply
with the conditions stipulated in the temporary use permit.
      4.   Time extensions for a temporary use permit shall be processed in the
same manner as the original permit. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-3-6: VARIANCES AND APPEALS:
   A.   Purpose: The board of adjustment may decide appeals of administrative
interpretations and decisions as well as authorize a departure from the terms
of the zoning regulations but not to the permitted uses.
   B.   Application: Before the town accepts any applications, the petitioner
shall schedule a preapplication meeting. The purpose of the preapplication
meeting is to discuss, in general, the procedures and requirements. Subsequent
to the preapplication meeting, a request for variance shall be made by filing
an application with the zoning administrator and paying the required
application fee. The application shall be accompanied by a development plan
showing such information as the zoning administrator may reasonably require for
purposes of this title. The plans shall contain sufficient information for the
board to make a proper decision on the matter. In all cases, the application
shall address all of the following hardship criteria:
      1.   There exist special circumstances or conditions regarding the land
or building referred to in the application, which do not apply to other
properties in the district.
      2.   The above special circumstances or conditions are preexisting and
are not created or self-imposed by the owner or applicant.
      3.   The variance is necessary for the preservation of substantial
property rights. Without a variance the property cannot be used for purposes
otherwise allowed in this district.
      4.   The authorizing of the variance will not be materially detrimental
to persons residing or working in the vicinity, to adjacent property, or to the
neighborhood or the public welfare.
   C.   Variance Requests: A variance is not a right. It may be granted to an
applicant only if the applicant establishes compliance with all of the hardship
criteria established in Arizona Revised Statutes section 9-462.06 and in
subsection B of this section.
Pursuant to state statutes, the board may not:
      1.   Make any changes in the uses permitted in any zoning classification
or zoning district.
      2.   Grant a variance if the special circumstances applicable to the
property are self-imposed by the property owner.
   D.   Appeal Of Decision: In an appeal to the board regarding an
administrative decision or interpretation, the board's review shall be limited
to determining whether the decision or interpretation by the zoning
administrator was in accordance with the intent and requirements of this title.
Accordingly, the board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or modify the
order, requirement or decision of the zoning administrator.
   E.   Public Hearing: Notice of the hearing at which the variance or appeal
will be heard, shall be provided in compliance with Arizona Revised Statutes
section 9-462.06 and section
10-3-2 of this chapter.
   F.   Validity Limit: Rights and privileges established by the granting of a
variance shall be exercised within twelve (12) months following the date of
approval unless the board specifies a different time limit at the time the
variance is granted. A variance that is not exercised within the time limits
specified shall become null and void. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-3-7: SITE PLAN REVIEW:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the site plan regulations is to promote the
safe, functional and aesthetic development of property and to ensure that all
new multiple residential, commercial and industrial structures and the
associated utilities, streets, parking, circulation systems, lighting, signage,
drainage and landscaping are developed in conformance with the standards of
this title, and in compliance with the Parker general plan. The site plan
review shall consider the proposed development and the relationship of the
project to adjacent developments and the community. No building permit shall be
issued until approved by the commission and then such issuance shall only be in
accordance with the plans and stipulations as approved by the commission.
   B.   Application:
      1.   Site plan review shall be required for all development and
construction within the following zoning districts within the town of Parker,
except for interior tenant improvements:
         R-2   Multiple residential zone (any development of over 2 units)
         R-3   Multiple residential zone
         R-4   Multiple residential zone
         OT   Office transitional
         C-1   Neighborhood commercial zone
         C-2   Community commercial zone
         RC   Resort commercial zone
         I-1   Light industrial zone
         I-2   General industrial zone
         CC   Community core overlay zone
      2.   Site plan review shall also be required for any public or quasi-
public facility, community facility, or places of public assembly regardless of
the zoning district in which they are proposed to be located.
      3.   If the proposed development requires a zoning change (rezoning) or a
conditional use permit, the site plan shall be submitted with the rezoning or
use permit application and considered concurrently. For proposed developments,
which do not require rezoning or a use permit, the site plan must be approved
prior to submittal for a building or grading permit.
      4.   Before the town accepts any applications, the applicant shall
schedule and attend a preapplication meeting. The purpose of the preapplication
meeting is to discuss, in general, the procedures and requirements for the site
plan review pursuant to these regulations. All applications shall be filed on a
form provided by the zoning administrator and shall be accompanied by the
required fee and all required materials as outlined in this title and/or on the
application. Depending upon the specific circumstances of the development,
additional materials may be required by the town in order to adequately review
the application.
   C.   Submittal Requirements: All site plan review applications shall comply
with the submittal requirements outlined in subsection
10-3-3E of this chapter and those on the application.
   D.   Procedures:
      1.   All site plan review applications shall be processed in accordance
with subsection 10-3-3F of this chapter.
      2.   All site plan review applications, for which rezoning is also
required, shall be submitted along with the rezoning application and processed
in accordance with subsection 10-3-3F of this chapter.
   E.   Scope Of Action:
      1.   Approval shall become effective immediately. If the site plan review
is in conjunction with a request for rezoning, the approval of the petition to
rezone the land may not be enacted as an emergency measure, and the rezoning
along with the site plan shall not become effective for at least thirty (30)
days after town council approval.
      2.   A site plan approval pursuant to these provisions shall run with the
land and shall continue to be valid upon a change of ownership of the site or
structure that was the subject of the application.
      3.   Any amendments or modifications to an approved site plan shall be
processed in the same manner as the original application, except that minor
amendments, such as, but not limited to, color changes, material changes,
changes in building height or reduction in square footage, etc., may be
authorized by the zoning administrator.
      4.   A certificate of occupancy shall not be issued if development
activities do not conform to the approved site plan. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-3-8: SPECIFIC AREA PLANS:
   A.   Purpose: In accordance with the provisions of Arizona law, the town
council may approve and/or amend specific area plans and regulations. Specific
area plans, and amendments thereto, may be initiated by town council, planning
and zoning commission, town staff, or by the property owner or his/her
designated representative.
   B.   Application:
      1.   Before the town accepts any applications, the applicant shall
schedule and attend a preapplication meeting. The purpose of the preapplication
meeting is to discuss, in general, the procedures and requirements for the
specific area plan pursuant to these regulations and the town of Parker general
plan. All applications shall be filed on a form provided by the zoning
administrator and shall be accompanied by the required fee and all required
materials as outlined in this title and/or on the application. Depending upon
the specifics circumstances of the plan or amendment, additional materials may
be required by the town in order to adequately review the application.
      2.   By resolution, the town council may establish a schedule prescribing
when and how frequently specific area plans and regulations will be considered.
   C.   Procedures: An application for, or an amendment to, a specific area
plan and regulations shall be processed and public hearings shall be held in
accordance with the Arizona Revised Statutes section 9-461.09 and subsection
10-3-3F of this chapter.
   D.   Subsequent Applications: In the event that an application for, or an
amendment to, a specific area plan and regulation is denied by the town council
or that the application is withdrawn after the commission hearing, the
commission shall not accept another application for the same plan and/or
amendment within twelve (12) months of the original hearing unless agreed to by
a super majority three-fourths (3/4) vote of the commission. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-
6-2005)
10-3-9: GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Purpose: In accordance with the provisions of Arizona law, the town
council may update and amend the town of Parker general plan. Such amendments
or changes may be initiated by the town council, planning and zoning
commission, town staff or by a property owner or his/her designated
representative.
   B.   Application: Before the town accepts any applications, the applicant
shall schedule and attend a preapplication meeting. The purpose of the
preapplication meeting is to discuss, in general, the procedures and
requirements for the general plan amendment pursuant to these regulations and
the town of Parker general plan. All applications shall be filed on a form
provided by the zoning administrator and shall be accompanied by the required
fee and all required materials as outlined in this title and/or on the
application. Depending upon the specific circumstances of the amendment,
additional materials may be required by the town in order to adequately review
the application.
   C.   Procedures: An application for a general plan amendment shall be
processed and public hearings shall be held in accordance with the Arizona
Revised Statutes section 9-461.06, this title, and those provisions prescribed
in the Parker general plan. Only one town council hearing is designated each
year to review and approve all general plan amendments.
   D.   Approval Criteria: In determining whether the proposed general plan
amendment shall be approved, the planning and zoning commission and town
council shall assure that the proposed amendment meets all of the following
criteria:
      1.   The development pattern contained in the existing Parker general
plan - land use plan does not adequately provide appropriate optional sites for
the use or change proposed in the amendment.
      2.   That the amendment constitutes an overall improvement to the Parker
general plan and is not solely for the good or benefit of a particular
landowner or owners at a particular point in time.
      3.   That the amendment will not adversely impact the community as a
whole or a portion of the community by:
         a.   Significantly altering acceptable existing land use patterns;
         b.   Requiring additional and more expensive improvements to roads,
sewer, or water delivery systems than are needed to support the prevailing land
uses and which, therefore, may impact developments in other areas;
         c.   Adversely impacting existing or previously planned uses through
increased traffic generated by the proposal on existing systems; or
         d.   Affecting the livability of the area or the health and safety of
the residents.
      4.   That the amendment is consistent with the general plan's overall
intent, vision, goals and objectives as well as being compliant with other
adopted plans, codes, and ordinances.
      5.   It shall be the burden of the party requesting the general plan
amendment to prove that the change constitutes an improvement to the general
plan. It shall not be the burden of the town to provide a reason that an
amendment should be denied. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
10-4-1: Purpose
10-4-2: Establishment Of Zoning Districts
10-4-3: Zoning Map
10-4-4: District Boundaries
10-4-5: Establishing Town Zoning In Annexed Areas
10-4-1: PURPOSE:
The town of Parker is hereby zoned and divided into zoning districts and
overlay districts. The purpose of establishing these districts is:
   A.   To implement the goals, objectives, and policies of the town of Parker
general plan;
   B.   To conserve and promote the public health, safety and general welfare;
   C.   To encourage the most appropriate use of land throughout the town and
to ensure logical and orderly growth and development of the physical elements
of the town;
   D.   To conserve and enhance the economic, social, and aesthetic values of
the town;
   E.   To protect, maintain, and improve the integrity and character of the
established neighborhoods, regulate new development, and improve the town's
overall quality of life. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-4-2: ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS:
   A.   In accordance with the requirements of the zoning enabling act 1  that
zoning regulations be by districts, the town of Parker, as shown on the zoning
map(s) accompanying this title and incorporated herein by this reference, is
hereby divided into the following zoning districts and overlay districts:
      1.   Single Residence Districts:
 
RR-20  Rural residential - minimum twenty (20) acres per dwelling unit.
RR-2.5 Ranch residential - minimum one hundred eight thousand nine hundred
       (108,900) square feet (21/2
R1-43  Low density residential - minimum forty three thousand five hundred
       sixty (43,560) square feet (1 acre) per dwelling unit.
R1-18  Low density residential - minimum eighteen thousand (18,000) square feet
       per dwelling unit.
R1-10  Medium density residential - minimum ten thousand (10,000) square feet
       per dwelling unit.
R1-7   Medium density residential - minimum seven thousand five hundred (7,500)
       square feet per dwelling unit.
 
      2.   Multiple Residence Districts:
 
R-2 Medium-high density residential - minimum three thousand six hundred
    (3,600) square feet per dwelling unit (maximum 12 dwelling units per acre).
R-3 High density residential - minimum two thousand four hundred (2,400) square
    feet per dwelling unit (maximum 18 dwelling units per acre).
R-4 Very high density residential - minimum one thousand eight hundred (1,800)
    square feet per dwelling unit (maximum 24 dwelling units per acre).
 
      3.   Commercial Districts:
 
OT  Office transitional zoning district
C-1 Neighborhood commercial zoning district
C-2 Community commercial zoning district
 
      4.   Industrial Districts:
 
I-1 Light industrial zoning district
I-2 General industrial zoning district
 
      5.   Open Space Conservation, Recreational And Public Use Districts:
 
OSC Open space conservation zoning district
OSR Open space recreational zoning district
PL  Public land zoning district
 
      6.   Overlay Districts:
 
PAD Planned area development overlay district
MH  Manufactured home overlay district
CC  Community core overlay district
 
   B.   Additional zoning districts may be added from time to time upon the
recommendation of the planning and zoning commission to the town council.
Proposed changes to the zoning district regulations or the official zoning map,
including the addition of new districts, may be submitted by the planning and
zoning commission, town staff, town council, or any other interested party.
   C.   Uses not listed as a permitted use or a conditional use within the
applicable zoning district regulations are prohibited.
   D.   If a use does not conform to the uses designated as permitted uses
within the zoning district, the applicant may submit an application for an
amendment to the official zoning map and/or the text of this title, or an
interpretation of district boundaries or permitted uses pursuant to
chapter 3 of this title. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 9-462.01.B.
10-4-3: ZONING MAP:
   A.   The locations and boundaries of zoning districts shall be designated on
a map or maps entitled zoning map(s) of the town of Parker and said map(s) and
all notations, references and other information shown thereon shall be as much
a part of this title as if the matters and information set forth by said map(s)
were all fully described herein.
   B.   The zoning map(s), dated and signed by the mayor and town clerk, shall
be located in the office of the zoning administrator and a copy shall be kept
on file with the town clerk. Any changes thereto shall be clearly shown on the
zoning map(s) when officially adopted by the town council. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-
2005)
10-4-4: DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
   A.   Where uncertainty exists concerning the boundaries of any zoning
district shown on the zoning map(s), the following rules shall apply:
      1.   Where zoning district boundaries are indicated as approximately
following street or alley lines or the centerlines thereof, such lines shall be
construed to be the zoning district boundaries.
      2.   Where zoning district boundaries are so indicated that they
approximately follow property lines, such property lines shall be construed to
be zoning district boundaries.
      3.   Where zoning district boundaries are indicated as approximately
following the line of any stream or other waterway, the center of such stream
or waterway shall be construed to be zoning district boundaries.
      4.   If zoning district boundary lines are fixed by dimensions shown on
the zoning map(s), such dimensions shall govern.
      5.   In cases where the above described lines are not used, the zoning
district lines shall be determined by using the scale of the zoning map.
      6.   Whenever any street, alley or other public way is vacated by the
town council, the zoning districts adjoining each side of such street, alley or
public way shall be considered as extended to the center of such vacation and
all areas included in the vacation shall then be subject to all appropriate
regulations of those zoning districts.
   B.   Any dispute as to the boundary or location of property within a zoning
district shall be resolved in accordance with chapter 3 of this title.
   C.   Conditions imposed by special ordinance in conjunction with amendments
to the zoning map(s) are referenced to separate files maintained in the office
of the zoning administrator and are hereby made a part of the zoning map(s).
(Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-4-5: ESTABLISHING TOWN ZONING IN ANNEXED AREAS:
   A.   Pursuant to Arizona Revised Statutes section 9-462 et seq., Parker may
enact an ordinance authorizing county zoning to continue in effect until
municipal zoning is applied to land previously zoned by the county and annexed
by the municipality, but in no event for longer than six (6) months after the
annexation. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
CHAPTER 5
SINGLE RESIDENCE ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Purpose
10-5-2: Permitted Uses
10-5-3: Uses Subject To Conditional Use Permit
10-5-4: Uses Subject To Temporary Use Permit
10-5-5: Design Standards Requirements
10-5-6: Review Process
10-5-7: Compliance With Other Provisions
10-5-8: Density, Area, Building And Yard Regulations
10-5-1: PURPOSE:
The single residence districts are designed to provide for a range of single
residence land uses. The purpose of these districts is to protect the stability
of existing land uses, existing neighborhoods, and to encourage desirable new
residential developments encompassing the many lifestyles and areas of the
town. It is also the intent of these districts to accommodate the needs of
single residence neighborhoods by providing for associated, limited,
nonresidential uses that are required by law such as religious, educational and
recreational facilities. The single residence districts are further delineated
in the following categories:
   A.   Rural/Ranch Residential Zoning Districts:
      1.   RR-20 residential zoning with minimum lot size of twenty (20) acres
per dwelling unit.
The purpose of this rural zoning district is to provide areas for large more
intense agricultural activities, ranching land uses, and their related
activities, in appropriate locations with buffering to mitigate the negative
impacts upon or from the agricultural and ranching operations. The intent is to
protect areas that have prime agricultural soils and existing or desired
ranching uses from incompatible land uses and urban encroachment. This district
is appropriate where low density development is desired, and where minimal
public facilities and services are programmed or anticipated. The RR-20 zoning
district may also act as a holding zone to prevent the premature conversion of
rural lands to suburban or urban uses and until there exists adequate public
facilities and an appropriate development plan.
      2.   RR-2.5 residential zoning with minimum lot size of one hundred eight
thousand nine hundred (108,900) square feet (21/2 acres) per dwelling unit.
The purpose of this ranch zoning district is to provide for and conserve
existing rural, ranch, and very low density residential uses in their present
or desired character, and to foster orderly growth in the ranch areas. The
intent of this district is to allow for areas where small ranching and
semirural residential uses can be maintained without conflict from higher
intensity development. This district is appropriate where low density
development is desired, and as a buffer for the low and medium density
residential uses from the more intense agricultural uses of the RR-20 district.
   B.   Low Density Residential Zoning Districts:
      1.   R1-43 residential zoning with minimum lot size of forty three
thousand five hundred sixty (43,560) square feet (1 acre) per dwelling unit.
The purpose of this zoning district is to foster orderly growth in the
transitional or fringe areas, whereby large lot residential uses would be most
appropriate. The intent of this district is to provide a pastoral character and
home sites that create an open environment and to provide a transitional land
use buffer between the rural land uses and medium density residential land
uses.
      2.   R1-18 residential zoning with a minimum lot size of eighteen
thousand (18,000) square feet per dwelling unit.
The purpose of this zoning district is to provide for detached single residence
development in areas where adequate public facilities and services are
available. The intent of this district is to encourage a traditional
neighborhood environment.
   C.   Medium Density Residential Zoning Districts:
      1.   R1-10 residential zoning with a minimum lot size of ten thousand
(10,000) square feet per dwelling unit.
The purpose of this zoning district is to provide for detached single residence
development in areas where adequate public facilities and services are
available. The intent of this district is to encourage a traditional
neighborhood environment.
      2.   R1-7 residential zoning with a minimum lot size of seven thousand
five hundred (7,500) square feet per dwelling unit.
The purpose of this zoning district is to provide for detached single residence
development in areas where adequate public facilities and services are
available. The intent of this district is to encourage a traditional
neighborhood environment. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-5-2: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   RR-20 Single Residence District: Permitted uses in the RR-20 single
residence districts shall be only those uses listed as permitted by right or
permitted as a conditional use within this zoning district; all other uses are
prohibited. Permitted uses are subject to all other applicable standards of
this title. No building permit shall be issued for a use not specifically
mentioned and for which the town has not issued an approval.
      1.   One single residential detached dwelling unit per lot of record.
      2.   Plant nurseries and greenhouses for the propagation, cultivation and
distribution of plants produced on the premises.
      3.   Farms/farming activities and ranch/ranching activities but not
including dairies; concentrated animal feeding operations; swine, ratites or
poultry farms. Farm and ranch uses shall be in compliance with the following
standards:
         a.   There shall be an open space buffer area, not less than sixty
feet (60') in width, between agricultural crop production fields and any
adjacent residentially zoned land or residential land uses if the agricultural
crop requires the application of pesticides either mechanically sprayed or by
aerial application.
         b.   Raising, breeding, training and feeding of agricultural animals
provided there are no more than two (2) animal units (AU) per acre, with a
total of no more than two hundred fifty (250) animals under any circumstance.
         c.   Animals must be contained and the containment must be within the
buildable area of the lot. Only pasture and grazing activity may occur outside
of the buildable area of the lot.
         d.   Ranch uses may include the following equine activities: boarding,
breeding, training, and the sale of animals owned by the rancher.
         e.   Ranch uses do not include liveries; the retail sale of hay, feed
or tack; or equine activities open to the general public.
         f.   A specific plan for the physical containment and location of
manure storage and/or disposal, which minimizes odor and fly impacts on
adjacent lots or parcels, must be provided and approved by the town. The
spreading and tilling of manure into the soil of the paddock, pasture or arena
areas may be considered manure disposal.
         g.   A specific program for fly control in barn and stable areas,
which minimizes the attraction and breeding of flies, must be provided and
approved by the town.
         h.   All activity and pasture areas shall be grassed, sprinkled or
treated with regularly tilled organic soil mix for dust suppression.
         i.   All feeding areas and the structures used to house or cover the
animals shall conform to the yard setback regulations of section
10-5-8, table 1, of this chapter.
      4.   One guesthouse may be permitted on the same lot as a principal
residence, provided the guesthouse complies with the following standards:
         a.   The guesthouse must conform to all minimum density, area,
building and yard regulations as that of the principal structure.
         b.   The guesthouse shall be located in the buildable area of the lot.
         c.   A single common driveway shall serve both the principal residence
and the guesthouse.
         d.   The guesthouse may not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the gross
square footage of the livable area of the primary structure.
         e.   The guesthouse must be connected to all of the primary
structure's electric, water and gas meters.
         f.   The guesthouse may not be used for any commercial or
nonresidential uses.
         g.   A guesthouse may not be used for rental purposes.
      5.   Public and private open space preserves.
      6.   Public utility services including storage facilities, booster
stations, lift stations, wastewater treatment plants, and generating plants,
but not including, business offices.
   B.   RR-2.5 Single Residence District: Permitted uses in the RR-2.5 single
residence districts shall be only those uses listed as permitted by right or
permitted as a conditional use within this zoning district; all other uses are
prohibited. Permitted uses are subject to all other applicable standards of
this title. No building permit shall be issued for a use not specifically
mentioned and for which the town has not issued an approval.
      1.   One single detached dwelling unit per lot of record.
      2.   Ranch and ranching activities and uses such as corrals, barns,
stables, and other similar structures, for the keeping of horses and other
agricultural animals but not including a commercial ranch or agricultural crop
production uses. All agricultural animal uses shall be in compliance with the
standards outlined in subsections A3a through A3i of this section, provided
there are no more than two (2) animal units (AU) per acre with a total of no
more than fifty (50) animals under any circumstance.
      3.   Plant nurseries and greenhouses for the propagation, cultivation and
distribution of plants produced on the premises.
      4.   Public and private open space preserves.
      5.   Public utility services including storage facilities, lift stations,
and booster stations but not including wastewater treatment plants, generating
plants, or business offices.
      6.   Satellite dish antenna for private residential use provided that it
is located within the buildable area of the rear yard, is less than eight feet
(8') in height, is ground mounted, and screened from both the public and
adjacent property views. This does not apply to dishes under twenty four inches
(24") in diameter.
      7.   Accessory buildings and accessory uses as prescribed in chapter 11
of this title.
      8.   One guesthouse may be permitted on the same lot as a principal
residence, provided the guesthouse complies with the standards outlined in
subsections A4a through A4g of this section.
   C.   R1-43, R1-18, R1-10, R1-7 Single Residence Districts: Permitted uses in
the R1-43, R1-18, R1-10, and R1-7 single residence districts shall be only
those uses listed as permitted by right or permitted as a conditional use
within the respective zoning district; all other uses are prohibited. Permitted
uses are subject to all other applicable standards of this title. No building
permit shall be issued for a use not specifically mentioned and for which the
town has not issued an approval.
      1.   One single detached dwelling unit per lot of record.
      2.   Temples, mosques, synagogues, or churches, including clergy housing.
      3.   Public and private open space preserves.
      4.   Public utility services, but not including business offices, repair
or storage facilities, wastewater treatment plants, booster stations, and
generating plants.
      5.   Satellite dish antennas for private residential use; provided, that
they are located within the buildable area of the rear yard, are less than
eight feet (8') in height, are ground mounted, and screened from both the
public and adjacent property views. This does not apply to dishes under twenty
four inches (24") in diameter.
      6.   Home based daycare with no more than six (6) children not related to
the proprietor with a maximum of ten (10) children total.
      7.   Home occupations as prescribed in chapter 11 of this title.
      8.   Accessory buildings and accessory uses as prescribed in chapter 11
of this title.
      9.   Assisted living facilities and group care homes for the elderly and
handicapped, provided that:
         a.   No such home is located on a lot that is within one thousand two
hundred feet (1,200') of another group home for the handicapped and elderly
care;
         b.   No such home contains more than six (6) residents;
         c.   Such home is licensed by the state of Arizona department of
health services;
         d.   Such home is registered with, and administratively approved by,
the town, as to compliance with the standards of this title. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-
6-2005)
10-5-3: USES SUBJECT TO CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
   A.   RR-20 Single Residence District: The following uses are permitted in
the RR-20 single residence district only after review and approval of a
conditional use permit in accordance with section
10-3-4 of this title. Conditional uses are subject to all other applicable
standards of this title and those requirements that may reasonably be imposed
by the town council. If a specific use is not listed as either a permitted use
or a conditional use, it is prohibited:
      1.   Produce stands for the sale of farm or ranch products.
      2.   Retail sales in conjunction with a plant nursery or greenhouse for
the sale of plants propagated or cultivated on the premises.
      3.   Buildings or permanent structures for agricultural processing
including cotton ginning and compressing, gristmilling, packing services and
other similar uses.
      4.   Veterinarian hospitals and clinics for both large and small animals
and the associated corrals, pens and kennels used for the keeping of animals
while under veterinary care.
      5.   Commercial riding stables, boarding stables, and/or commercial ranch
only after it has been found to be in compliance with the following standards:
         a.   There shall be no more than eight (8) animal unit (AU) per acre
with a total of no more than one hundred (100) animals per facility at any
given time under any circumstance.
         b.   An attendant must be in residence on the property of any
commercial ranch.
         c.   All livestock structures, containment areas of facilities used
for the stabling, storing, showing or training of livestock and for temporary
manure storage shall be set back a minimum of seventy five feet (75') from any
property line. Normal setbacks apply to all other structures and uses.
         d.   No shows or other activities that would generate more vehicular
traffic than is normal to an area with single-family residences are permitted
unless the site has immediate access to a major or collector town street.
Occasional small shows may be allowed per stipulations of the conditional use
permit. Adequate parking for daily activities and additional parking, as
determined by the zoning administrator, must be provided for shows or other
special events.
         e.   All livestock turnout areas and pens shall be enclosed with
fences at least five feet (5') in height. The design of these enclosures shall
be shown on drawings submitted with the conditional use permit application.
         f.   A specific plan for the physical containment and location of
manure storage and/or disposal, which minimizes odor and fly impacts on
adjacent lots or parcels, must be provided. The spreading and tilling of manure
into the soil of the paddock, pasture or arena areas may be considered manure
disposal.
         g.   The applicant must provide a specific program for fly control in
barn and stable areas that minimizes the attraction and breeding of flies.
         h.   All activity and pasture areas shall be grassed, sprinkled or
treated with regularly tilled organic soil mix for dust suppression.
         i.   With the exception of the principal residence and its accessory
structures, upon revocation of the commercial ranch conditional use permit or
abandonment of the operation, all structures shall be removed.
         j.   Failure to maintain any of the standards described above is
grounds for revocation of the conditional use permit.
         k.   In the review for commercial riding stables, boarding stables,
and/or a commercial ranch, the town may also consider lighting, landscaping,
hours of operation, signage, plan of operation, and neighborhood impact.
      6.   Secondary residential dwellings, in conjunction with a farm, to meet
the residential needs of farm employees, provided it complies with the
following standards:
         a.   The residential units for farm employees shall not be used for
any commercial or nonresidential uses, leased to nonfarm employees and/or
otherwise used for income purposes.
         b.   A recreational vehicle may be used for accessory agricultural
living purposes, provided it is placed only within the buildable area of the
lot, and shall not be occupied for more than four (4) months out of any twelve
(12) month period.
      7.   Kennels for the boarding or lodging, breeding, or training of small
domesticated animals, such as dogs and cats, provided the animals are kept
within the confines of an exercise area and a sound attenuated kennel. Animals
shall not run at large and shall not number more than four (4) animals per acre
with a total of no more than eighty (80) animals under any circumstance. A
specific plan for the physical containment and location of waste storage and/or
disposal, which minimizes odor and fly impacts on adjacent lots or parcels,
must be provided. All kennels shall comply with town and/or state licensing
requirements.
      8.   Amateur (ham) radio towers and antennas.
   B.   RR-2.5 Single Residence District: The following uses are permitted in
the RR-2.5 single residence district only after review and approval of a
conditional use permit in accordance with section
10-3-4 of this title. Conditional uses are subject to all other applicable
standards of this title and those requirements that may reasonably be imposed
by the town council. If a specific use is not listed as either a permitted use
or a conditional use, it is prohibited.
      1.   Commercial riding stables, boarding stables, and/or commercial
ranch, only after it has been found to be in compliance with the following
standards:
         a.   The site contains at least ten (10) acres.
         b.   There shall be no more than four (4) animal units (AU) per acre
with a total of no more than forty (40) animals per facility at any given time
under any circumstance.
         c.   Shall comply with the standards outlined in subsections A5b
through A5k of this section.
      2.   Kennels for the boarding or lodging, breeding, or training of small
domesticated animals, such as dogs and cats, provided the animals are kept
within the confines of an exercise run and a sound attenuated kennel. All
kennels shall comply with town and/or state licensing requirements.
      3.   Amateur (ham) radio towers and antennas.
      4.   Guest ranch and/or dude ranch operations, provided that the
following standards shall apply:
         a.   No more than four (4) bedrooms per residence may be used for the
business.
         b.   No more than two (2) adult persons per room.
         c.   One off street, nontandem parking space per bedroom.
   C.   R1-43, R1-18, R1-10, R1-7 Single Residence Districts: The following
uses are permitted in the R1-43, R1-18, R1-10 and R1-7 single residence
district only after review and approval of a conditional use permit in
accordance with section
10-3-4 of this title. Conditional uses are subject to all other applicable
standards of this title and those requirements that may be imposed by the town
council. If a specific use is not listed as either a permitted use or a
conditional use, it is prohibited.
      1.   Private schools, including charter schools, with a curriculum
substantially the same as customarily offered in public schools.
      2.   Amateur (ham) radio towers and antennas. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-5-4: USES SUBJECT TO TEMPORARY USE PERMIT:
   A.   The following uses are permitted in the R1-43, R1-18, R1-10 and R-
7 single residence districts only after review and approval of a temporary use
permit, in accordance with section
10-3-5 of this title. Temporary uses are subject to all other applicable
standards of this title and those requirements that may be imposed by the
zoning administrator or board of adjustment. If a specific use is not listed as
a permitted use, a conditional use, or a temporary use, it is prohibited.
      1.   Model homes or temporary sales office pertaining to the sale of
homes being constructed in the immediate subdivision. In the review for a model
home or sales office, the town may consider lighting, landscaping, hours of
operation, signage, parking, duration, and neighborhood impact. Approval may be
granted for a two (2) year period, or until all lots in the subdivision are
sold, whichever occurs first.
      2.   Temporary construction site trailer pertinent to the construction of
the homes and public improvements within the immediate subdivision. (Ord. 03-
2005, 9-6-2005)
10-5-5: DESIGN STANDARDS REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Site Design Standards: Housing should foster a sense of neighborhood
among nearby residents and a sense of community through linkage with
surrounding neighborhoods.
      1.   All new residential developments (subdivisions) shall be subject to
all requirements set forth in the Parker subdivision ordinance.
      2.   All new residential development (subdivisions) shall include a
pedestrian and bicycle multiuse pathway as part of the required open space
which shall be designed, located and oriented to provide: a) high pedestrian
and bicycle accessibility within and around the development; b) connections to
adjacent developments to enhance a structure of continuous open space
throughout the community; and c) a buffer between less developed, less densely
developed lands and urban development patterns.
      3.   New development (subdivisions) adjacent to rural residential, or
less developed land uses must provide a landscaped open space buffer of
sufficient width inward from the property line, with the open space buffer
oriented and designed in a manner to connect to the open space, pedestrian and
trail systems within the development and those in adjoining developments.
      4.   The use of alleyways with rear garage configurations, entry access
points, and adjacent vehicular parking areas is encouraged and may be
considered as a primary means of access to a residential lot.
      5.   Developments containing alleyways shall plan and design the
alleyways as a secure pedestrianway that links to the neighborhood pedestrian
and bicycle multiuse pathways and open space system.
      6.   The residential structure should have a strong relationship to the
neighborhood street. A walkway from the street to the front entry is strongly
encouraged.
   B.   Open Space Standards:
      1.   All residential developments (subdivisions) shall provide a minimum
fifteen percent (15%) net acreage as open space or as required by the Parker
subdivision ordinance, whichever is greater. "Net acres" shall be defined as
the total acres exclusive of the area required for arterial or collector street
right of way dedications, any commercial or industrial lands, and school/public
site reservations.
      2.   Not more than fifty percent (50%) of the required open space for any
residential development (subdivisions) shall be attributed to golf course use
or ancillary golf uses.
      3.   Private (subdivision) open space areas should be designated as a
tract, which is owned and maintained by a homeowners' association.
      4.   If the open space area (subdivision) is to be dedicated for public
use it shall be located to provide access and physical connections to adjacent
neighborhoods and to the community open space network and trail system or to
provide protection to adjacent public lands.
   C.   Architectural Requirements:
      1.   Mirrored surfaces or reflective treatment that changes or enhances
ordinary glass into a mirrored surface is prohibited. Bright untarnished
metallic surfaces, including roof materials, shall be chemically treated so
they are nonreflective.
      2.   Paint and material colors shall have a light reflective value (LRV)
no greater than forty percent (40%). Limited use of contrasting accenting
colors in excess of forty percent (40%) LRV for small elements such as
entryways and special architectural features of the building may be allowed.
      3.   Roof mounted mechanical equipment is prohibited. Mechanical
equipment, propane tanks, coolers, water filters and similar utility equipment
shall be installed at ground level or wall mounted and shall be screened from
public view and designed to appear as an integral part of the building.
      4.   The residence shall have a permanent foundation and a garage or
carport the design and materials of which shall be compatible with the main
structure. In RR-20, RR-2.5 and R1-43 zoning districts the garage area shall
not exceed thirty five percent (35%) of the front face plane of the residential
structure. In R1-18, R1-10 and R1-7 the garage area shall not exceed forty five
percent (45%) of the front face plane of the residential structure.
      5.   Detached garages and side entry garages are strongly encouraged.
      6.   Front porches and courtyards are strongly encouraged and should
provide a pedestrian connection, other than the driveway, to the street.
      7.   Open gable roofs, emphasizing the lack of detail, should be avoided.
Rooflines with differing heights and style combinations, stepping, or different
orientations are strongly encouraged.
      8.   All exterior elevations of a residential structure shall provide
architectural detailing, not just the front elevation.
      9.   Window embellishments shall be provided on all houses by adding
architectural features which enhance the elevations, e.g., sturdy synthetic
wood substitutes, greater variation of window design, different window styles,
tile inlays and recesses, structural popouts, gabled roof features over the
windows, etc. Such features must be added to all of the exterior elevations of
the house to provide interest and relief.
      10.   All multi-story houses shall be constructed so that the vertical
plane of the second floor front and rear elevation is set back a minimum
distance of four feet (4') from the vertical plane of the ground floor front
and rear elevation. This should also apply to the side elevations of all houses
that abut an arterial street on the side.
      11.   All tract home developments shall have a minimum of four (4) floor
plans, with a minimum of three (3) distinctly different elevations for each
floor plan. Additionally, a minimum of three (3) colors of roof material, three
(3) styles of garage doors and three (3) exterior paint colors shall be
required to further promote visual interest and architectural diversity. The
same elevations shall not be utilized across from or adjacent to each other.
(Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-5-6: REVIEW PROCESS:
   A.   All single residence construction shall require an administrative site
plan review, for compliance with this title, prior to issuance of a building
permit. All construction projects shall comply with the submittal requirements
as outlined on the residential site plan review application form obtained from
the town. The required fee shall accompany all applications. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-
6-2005)
10-5-7: COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER PROVISIONS:
   A.   General Provisions: The general provisions in
chapter 11 of this title shall apply.
   B.   Parking Regulations: The parking regulations are as provided in
chapter 13 of this title.
   C.   Outdoor Lighting: All outdoor lighting shall comply with
chapter 14 of this title.
   D.   Signs: All signage shall comply with
chapter 15 of this title. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-5-8: DENSITY, AREA, BUILDING AND YARD REGULATIONS:
The chart, which follows, specifies the minimum lot sizes, minimum lot width,
maximum building heights, minimum yard setbacks, and maximum lot coverage
percentages.
   TABLE 1
   SINGLE RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
         Area          Width  Building Minimum Yard Setback (ft.)  Lot
District (Square Feet) (Feet) Height   Front Side Street Side Rear Coverage
                              (Feet)
         Area             Width  Building Minimum Yard Setback (ft.)   Lot
District (Square Feet)    (Feet) Height   Front Side     Street Rear   Coverage
                                 (Feet)                  Side
  RR-20       871,2   6   40 60    30       60        6   5
            (20 acres)                                              percent
  RR-2.5      108,9   3   40 40    30 and   40        6   10
            (21/2 acres)                     30                     percent
  R1-43       43,56   1   30 40    25 and   40        4   15
                                                25                     percent
  R1-18       18,00   1   30 30    10 and   25        3   35
                                                10                     percent
  R1-10       10,00   8   30 25    10 and 7 20        2   40
                                                                       percent
                             502             5 and 52 102       1   40
  R1-7        7,500   6   25 20    5 and    203       2percent
                                                103
 
Notes:
   1.   Lot width on corner lots shall be increased by 10 feet.
   2.   Standards for lots located within "Parker Central".
   3.   Standards for lots located within "Parker South".
(Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
CHAPTER 6
MULTIPLE RESIDENCE ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Purpose
10-6-2: Permitted Uses
10-6-3: Uses Subject To Conditional Use Permit
10-6-4: Uses Subject To Temporary Use Permit
10-6-5: Design Standards Requirements
10-6-6: Review Process
10-6-7: Compliance With Other Provisions
10-6-8: Density, Area, Building And Yard Regulations
10-6-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the multiple residence districts is to provide for a range of
different types and densities of multiple residential developments in locations
which are suitable and appropriate, taking into consideration existing
conditions, future land use needs, and the availability of public services. It
is intended that these districts accommodate a variety of dwelling types,
including apartments, townhouses or patio homes, duplexes, and condominiums.
The multiple residence districts are further delineated in the following
categories:
   A.   Medium-High Density Residential Zoning District: R-2 multiple residence
zoning with minimum lot size of seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet
and a minimum of three thousand six hundred (3,600) square feet per dwelling
unit (maximum 12 dwelling units per acre).
The purpose of this multiple residence zoning district is to provide for small
lot development such as single- or two- family dwellings on an individual lot,
as well as serving infill needs. The R-2 may serve as a transitional district
between single residence and higher density residential development or
commercial districts. The intent of this district is to preserve and encourage
the development of a variety of attached and detached housing units while
maintaining a small scale neighborhood feel.
   B.   High Density Residential Zoning District: R-3 multiple residence zoning
with minimum lot size of seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet and a
minimum of two thousand four hundred (2,400) square feet per dwelling unit
(maximum 18 dwelling units per acre).
The purpose of this multiple residence zoning district is to allow for a
variety of building types, including apartments, townhouses and seasonal
visitor recreational vehicle developments, which include varied project
amenities. The R-3 shall provide a balance of housing opportunities to serve
the needs of both the year round residents and the seasonal visitors. The
intent of this district is to permit high density urban development with a
mixture of uses of a similar intensity.
   C.   Very High Density Residential Zoning District: R-4 multiple residence
zoning with minimum lot size of seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet
and a minimum of one thousand eight hundred (1,800) square feet per dwelling
unit (maximum 24 dwelling units per acre).
The purpose of this multiple residence zoning district is to provide for high
density attached residential development and destination tourism uses within
designated activity centers where adequate public facilities and services are
available. It is intended that this district accommodate multi-story
residential and tourist developments incorporating unique design and
exceptional amenities. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-6-2: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   R-2 Multiple Residence District: Permitted uses in the R-2 multiple
residence district shall be only those uses listed as permitted by right or
permitted as a conditional use within this zoning district; all other uses are
prohibited. Permitted uses are subject to all other applicable standards of
this title. No building permit shall be issued for a use not specifically
mentioned and for which the town has not issued an approval.
      1.   One single residence detached dwelling unit per lot of record.
      2.   Multiple residential developments (limited to a maximum of 12
dwelling units per acre).
      3.   Temples, mosques, synagogues, or churches, including clergy housing.
      4.   Public utility services, but not including business offices, repair
or storage facilities, wastewater treatment plants, booster stations, and
generating plants.
      5.   Home based daycare with no more than six (6) children not related to
the proprietor with a maximum of ten (10) children total.
      6.   Home occupations as prescribed in chapter 11 of this title.
      7.   Accessory buildings and accessory uses as prescribed in chapter 11
of this title.
   B.   R-3, R-4 Multiple Residence Districts: Permitted uses in the R-3 and R-
4 multiple residence districts shall be only those uses listed as permitted by
right or permitted as a conditional use within these zoning districts; all
other uses are prohibited. Permitted uses are subject to all other applicable
standards of this title. No building permit shall be issued for a use not
specifically mentioned and for which the town has not issued an approval.
      1.   Multiple residential developments (limited to a maximum of 18 or 24
dwelling units per acre depending upon the specific zoning district).
      2.   Public or private open space preserves, cemeteries.
      3.   Temples, synagogues, or churches, including clergy housing.
      4.   Tennis courts and golf courses including clubhouses located thereon
and unlighted driving ranges but not including miniature golf courses.
      5.   Public utility services, but not including business offices, repair
or storage facilities, wastewater treatment plants, booster stations, and
generating plants.
      6.   Home based daycare with no more than three (3) children not related
to the proprietor with a maximum of six (6) children total.
      7.   Assisted living facilities and group care homes for the elderly and
handicapped, provided that:
         a.   No such home is located on a lot that is within one thousand two
hundred feet (1,200') of another group home for the handicapped and elderly
care;
         b.   No such home contains more than six (6) residents;
         c.   Such home is licensed by the state of Arizona department of
health services;
         d.   Such home is registered with, and administratively approved by,
the town as to compliance with the standards of this title.
      8.   Home occupations as prescribed in chapter 11 of this title.
      9.   Accessory buildings and accessory uses as prescribed in chapter 11
of this title. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-6-3: USES SUBJECT TO CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
   A.   R-2 Multiple Residence District: The following uses are permitted in
the R-2 multiple residence district only after review and approval of a
conditional use permit in accordance with section
10-3-4 of this title. Conditional uses are subject to all other applicable
standards of this title and those requirements that may reasonably be imposed
by the town council. If a specific use is not listed as either a permitted use
or a conditional use, it is prohibited.
      1.   Private schools or charter schools, with a curriculum substantially
the same as customarily offered in public schools.
      2.   Bed and breakfast operations provided that the following standards
shall apply:
         a.   No more than four (4) bedrooms per residence may be used for the
business.
         b.   No more than two (2) adult persons per room.
         c.   One off street, nontandem parking space per bedroom.
   B.   R-3 Multiple Residence District: The following uses are permitted in
the R-3 multiple residence districts only after review and approval of a
conditional use permit in accordance with section
10-3-4 of this title. Conditional uses are subject to all other applicable
standards of this title and those requirements that may reasonably be imposed
by the town council. If a specific use is not listed as either a permitted use
or a conditional use, it is prohibited.
      1.   Private schools, charter schools, or boarding school with a
curriculum substantially the same as customarily offered in public schools.
      2.   Daycare center, with no more than twenty (20) children, including
the required outdoor play area.
      3.   Recreational vehicle (RV) parks in accordance with
chapter 11 of this title.
      4.   Recreational vehicle (RV) subdivisions in accordance with
chapter 11 of this title.
   C.   R-4 Multiple Residence District: The following uses are permitted in
the R-4 multiple residence districts only after review and approval of a
conditional use permit in accordance with section
10-3-4 of this title. Conditional uses are subject to all other applicable
standards of this title and those requirements that may reasonably be imposed
by the town council. If a specific use is not listed as either a permitted use
or a conditional use, it is prohibited.
      1.   Resorts, but not hotels or motels, provided that the following
standards shall apply:
         a.   Each development shall have a minimum area of twenty (20) acres.
         b.   Each development shall provide a restaurant on site.
         c.   The resort shall provide outside recreational amenities, such as,
but not limited to, golf, horseback riding, tennis or swimming.
         d.   The resort development may include meeting rooms or a conference
center, health club and spa facilities, beauty and retail shops accessible only
from within the primary resort building.
      2.   Guest ranch.
      3.   Timeshare developments. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-6-4: USES SUBJECT TO TEMPORARY USE PERMIT:
   A.   The following uses are permitted in the R-2, R-3 and R-4 multiple
residence districts only after review and approval of a temporary use permit,
in accordance with section
10-3-5 of this title. Temporary uses are subject to all other applicable
standards of this title and those requirements that may reasonably be imposed
by the zoning administrator or board of Adjustment. If a specific use is not
listed as a permitted use, a conditional use, or a temporary use, it is
prohibited.
      1.   Temporary uses such as revivals, carnivals, circuses, auctions,
holidays or seasonal boutiques or tree lots when uses are located on property
used for church or school purposes only.
      2.   Temporary construction site trailer. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-6-5: DESIGN STANDARDS REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Site Design Standards: Multiple residential developments and
construction should complement and enhance the built environment of the
surrounding residential structures and neighborhood through the creative and
imaginative application of architecture, landscape and site design standards
and promote a sense of community through linkage with the surrounding
neighborhoods.
      1.   All new multiple residential developments (subdivisions) shall be
subject to all requirements set forth in the Parker subdivision ordinance.
      2.   Parking areas adjacent to the required front yard shall be screened
by a decorative wall or landscape berm, or combination thereof, to a height not
to exceed three feet (3') in order to adequately screen the undercarriages of
the parked vehicles.
      3.   Trash and refuse collection locations shall be screened with a six
foot (6') decorative masonry wall. Trash and refuse areas shall be located such
that they are not the visual focal point of a driveway or parking area, or
cannot be viewed from a public street.
      4.   All multiple residence developments, having more than six (6)
dwelling units, shall provide amenities for the residents' use. Examples of
such amenities are swimming pool, clubhouse, health and fitness center, tennis
courts, etc. The area utilized by these amenities may be credited as open
space.
      5.   Required covered parking shall provide motion sensor/detector light
fixtures which are to be placed under the parking shade canopy. The design and
materials of the covered parking canopy shall be compatible with the main
structure.
      6.   All of the dwelling units within the development should have a
strong relationship to one another, to the common open space and to the
neighborhood street. A walkway from the street to the front entry is strongly
encouraged.
   B.   Open Space Standards:
      1.   Open space shall be required for each development at a minimum of
twenty percent (20%) of the net acreage for single level developments or
equivalent to one hundred percent (100%) of the first floor FAR and fifty
percent (50%) of the third floor FAR for attached multilevel developments. Open
space does not include parking areas.
      2.   All multiple residential developments, including, but not limited
to, apartments, RV parks, RV subdivisions, and condominiums shall be required
to provide open space, provide buffering to adjacent developments, provide
landscaping, and provide physical connections to adjacent neighborhoods.
   C.   Architectural Requirements:
      1.   Mechanical equipment, electrical meter and service components,
propane tanks, coolers, water filters and similar utility equipment shall be
installed at ground level or wall mounted and shall be screened from public
view and designed to appear as an integral part of the building.
      2.   All buildings shall incorporate three hundred sixty degree (360°)
architecture, a variety of massing and building heights, and stepping
rooflines. Straight rooflines should be varied by using offsets, differing
heights, stepping, or different orientations to produce more variety within a
development. Roof material shall not be wood shake shingles.
      3.   All of the exterior elevations of the structures shall provide
interest and relief and utilize architectural detailing and overhanging eaves.
Open gable roofs, emphasizing the lack of detail, should be avoided. Embellish
window treatments on buildings by adding architectural features, which enhance
the elevations, e.g., gabled roof features over windows, structural popouts,
recesses, headers, tile inlays, different window designs and styles.
      4.   Reflective building materials are prohibited. Mirrored surfaces or
any treatment that changes ordinary glass into a mirrored surface are
prohibited. Metallic surfaces, including roof materials, shall be chemically
treated to be nonreflective. Paint and material colors shall have a light
reflective value (LRV) no greater than forty percent (40%). Limited use of
contrasting accenting colors in excess of forty percent (40%) LRV for small
elements such as entryways and special architectural features of the building
may be allowed.
      5.   The building materials of a project shall be durable, require low
maintenance, and be of the same or higher quality as surrounding developments.
The use of "T1-11 siding" (rough sawn plywood siding with vertical grooves at 4
inches or 8 inches OC) shall be prohibited. All multiple residential buildings
shall have a permanent foundation and a garage, carport or covered parking
canopy. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-6-6: REVIEW PROCESS:
   A.   All multiple residential development and construction shall require
site plan review, by the planning and zoning commission, prior to the
applicant's submittal for building or grading permits. All applications for
site plan review shall comply with the submittal requirements outlined in
section
10-3-7 of this title. The required fee shall accompany all applications. (Ord.
03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-6-7: COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER PROVISIONS:
   A.   General Provisions: The general provisions in
chapter 11 of this title shall apply.
   B.   Parking Regulations: The parking regulations are as provided in
chapter 13 of this title.
   C.   Outdoor Lighting: All outdoor lighting shall comply with
chapter 14 of this title.
   D.   Signs: All signage shall comply with
chapter 15 of this title. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-6-8: DENSITY, AREA, BUILDING AND YARD REGULATIONS:
The chart, which follows, specifies the minimum lot sizes, minimum lot width,
maximum building heights, minimum yard setbacks, and maximum lot coverage
percentages.
   TABLE 2
   MULTIPLE RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
 
         Minimum Minimum                      Minimum Yard Setback (Feet)
         Lot     Area/DU Lot Width   Building                                 Lot
District Area    (Square (Feet)      Height   Front    Side     Street Rear   Coverage
         (Square Feet)               (Feet)
         Feet)
  R-2   7,500   3,600         302         20    52,102       140
                               601,3                103203       2percent
  R-3   7,500   2,400         402         202   52,102       140
                               601,3       203   103203,4     2percent
  R-4   7,500   1,800         40          204   205205       260
                                                                              percent
 
Notes:
   1.   Lot width on corner lots shall be increased by 10 feet.
   2.   Standards for developments within "Parker Central".
   3.   Standards for developments within "Parker South".
   4.   Or height of building, whichever is the greater.
   5.   Projections into required setbacks are not allowed.
(Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
CHAPTER 7
COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Purpose
10-7-2: Permitted Uses
10-7-3: Uses Subject To Conditional Use Permit
10-7-4: Uses Subject To Temporary Use Permit
10-7-5: Design Standards Requirements
10-7-6: Review Process
10-7-7: Compliance With Other Provisions
10-7-8: Density, Area, Building And Yard Regulations
10-7-1: PURPOSE:
The commercial zoning districts are designed to provide a range of commercial
land uses. The purpose of these districts is to provide for commercial
development in locations, which are suitable and appropriate, taking into
consideration existing conditions, future land use needs, the availability of
public services, and the goals and objectives of the Parker general plan. It is
intended that these districts accommodate a variety of uses including
professional office, neighborhood retail and services, specialty retail, and
general retail and services. The commercial districts are further delineated in
the following categories:
   A.   OT office transitional zoning district: The purpose of this zoning
district is to provide a location for small scale, well designed professional
offices and personal services within a neighborhood setting. It is intended
that this district accommodate a very limited range of uses and encourages
residential development either as the primary use or secondarily in conjunction
with the professional office or personal service within a residential
environment.
   B.   C-1 neighborhood commercial zoning district: The purpose of this zoning
district is to provide a location for well designed small scale retail shops
and services in convenient locations to meet the daily needs of families in the
immediate residential neighborhood. It is intended that this district
accommodate a restricted range of uses that must be compatible with and
integrated into the adjoining residential neighborhood. Residential uses shall
be incidental to the primary commercial development.
   C.   C-2 community commercial zoning district: The purpose of this zoning
district is to provide a location for general business and commercial uses. The
intent of this district is to allow for larger commercial uses to satisfy the
broader retail and business needs of the community at large while providing for
a broad range of commercial activities. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-7-2: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   OT Office Transitional District: Permitted uses in the OT office
transitional district shall be only those uses listed as permitted by right or
permitted as a conditional use within this zoning district; all other uses are
prohibited. Permitted uses are subject to all other applicable standards of
this title. Office, service and/or retail portions of any development shall be
restricted to a maximum floor area of two thousand five hundred (2,500) square
feet unless otherwise indicated. No building permit shall be issued for a use
not specifically mentioned and for which the town has not issued an approval.
      1.   One single residential detached dwelling unit per lot of record.
      2.   Bed and breakfast establishments.
      3.   Professional and administrative offices.
      4.   Medical, dental, chiropractic and clinical offices (excluding
laboratory or pharmacy facilities).
      5.   Veterinarian office (excluding laboratory and boarding or kennel
facilities, except for short periods of observation incidental to care or
treatment).
      6.   Art galleries, art studios for the production and teaching of fine
art, music schools and dance studios.
      7.   Personal and household services, such as clothing alteration,
seamstress shop, beauty and barber shops, therapeutic massage, travel agency,
printing and copy shop, florist and catering service.
      8.   Assisted living facilities and group care homes for the elderly and
handicapped, provided that:
         a.   No such home is located on a lot that is within one thousand two
hundred feet (1,200') of another group home for the handicapped and elderly
care;
         b.   No such home contains more than twenty (20) residents;
         c.   Such home is licensed by the state of Arizona department of
health services;
         d.   Such home is registered with, and administratively approved by,
the town as to compliance with the standards of this title.
   B.   C-1 Neighborhood Commercial District: Permitted uses in the C-
1 neighborhood commercial district shall be only those uses listed as permitted
by right or permitted as a conditional use within this zoning district; all
other uses are prohibited. Permitted uses are subject to all other applicable
standards of this title and are restricted to a maximum building size of four
thousand (4,000) square feet unless otherwise indicated. No building permit
shall be issued for a use not specifically mentioned and for which the town has
not issued an approval.
      1.   Residential units, when located above the first floor or behind the
commercial frontage and incidental to the primary commercial development.
      2.   Daycare centers, with no more than thirty (30) children total,
including the required outdoor play area.
      3.   Personal and household services, such as clothing alteration,
seamstress shop, shoe repair shops, beauty and barbershops, jewelry and watch
repair, small appliance repairs, bank (without drive-through window), travel
agency, launderette, and dry cleaners (without processing), therapeutic
massage, printing and copy shop, florist and catering service.
      4.   Retail stores for the sale of stationery, cards, gifts, bookstore,
bakery, delicatessen, candy shop, coffee house, ice cream shop, art supply
shop, and photo shop.
      5.   Professional, administrative and general offices.
      6.   Medical, dental, chiropractic and clinical offices (excluding
laboratory or pharmacy facilities).
      7.   Veterinarian office (excluding laboratory and boarding or kennel
facilities, except for short periods of observation incidental to care or
treatment).
      8.   Art galleries, art studios for the production and teaching of fine
art, music schools and dance studios.
      9.   Music store, video store, and bicycle shop.
      10.   Convenience market without the sale or dispensing of gasoline.
      11.   Restaurants (excluding drive-in and drive-through facilities) and
taverns.
   C.   C-2 Community Commercial District: Permitted uses in the C-2 community
commercial district shall be only those uses listed as permitted by right or
permitted as a conditional use within this zoning district; all other uses are
prohibited. Permitted uses are subject to all other applicable standards of
this title. No building permit shall be issued for a use not specifically
mentioned and for which the town has not issued an approval.
      1.   Those uses permitted in the C-1 neighborhood commercial zoning
district.
      2.   Daycare centers including the required outdoor play area.
      3.   Medical, dental, and clinical laboratories.
      4.   Hospital and outpatient clinics.
      5.   Conference center or community center.
      6.   Small animal hospitals or clinics, confined to a completely enclosed
sound attenuated building with no kennel or exercise runs.
      7.   Mortuaries, excluding crematories.
      8.   Professional, administrative, general office uses and governmental
facilities and offices.
      9.   Drive-through window facilities.
      10.   Bank and financial institutions with drive-through windows and
outdoor teller facilities.
      11.   Restaurants (including drive-in and drive-through facilities),
taverns, bars, nightclubs, and outdoor dining (when ancillary to restaurant
use).
      12.   Outdoor sales and displays are prohibited, except where one or more
of the following conditions are present:
         a.   Products and services displayed outdoors are customary,
accessory, and incidental to those sold and displayed in a primary business
being conducted in a permanent building on the property.
         b.   Outdoor sales and displays do not interfere with pedestrian
accessways, fire lanes, required parking spaces, driveways, landscape areas, or
traffic visibility at driveway entries and street intersections.
         c.   The combined outdoor sales and display areas do not exceed fifty
percent (50%) of the business's gross square footage.
      13.   Large scale retail stores, not to exceed eighty thousand (80,000)
square feet, individually, and not to exceed one hundred fifty thousand
(150,000) square feet in a group commercial development such as supermarkets,
retail drugstore, video store, dry goods and notions store, appliance store,
home or hardware store, floor and wall covering store, furniture store, bicycle
and sporting goods store, and apparel store.
      14.   Dry cleaning facility.
      15.   Hotels and motels.
      16.   Indoor entertainment and amusement facilities such as movie
theaters, dance halls, bowling alleys, billiard parlors, skating rinks, video
and game arcade.
      17.   Health club, fitness or exercise facility and tennis and racket
clubs.
      18.   Household, sickroom or office equipment rental and services.
      19.   Car wash facilities, auto parts stores, auto service stations and
convenience market with the sale or dispensing of gasoline.
      20.   Outdoor display areas for the sale of new or used automobiles,
trucks, boats, trailers, and recreational vehicles provided all sales and
repair activities are conducted within a building.
      21.   Outdoor display areas for the sale of new manufactured homes
provided all units within public view and for public display shall be ground
mounted, anchored and finished in a manner representative of the actual
finished product.
      22.   General auto repair, including auto painting and body repair,
provided all repair operations are conducted within a building and including an
outside vehicle storage area to be used only for vehicles under repair which
shall be screened from any street or surrounding property.
      23.   Nurseries, flower and plant sales, provided all incidental
equipment and supplies, including fertilizer and empty cans, are kept within a
completely enclosed building or within an area enclosed on all sides by a solid
fence or wall at least six feet (6') in height and no goods, materials or
objects are stacked higher than the fence or wall. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
      24.   Blacksmith shops, welding shops, contractors' offices and
contractors' equipment yards, provided the yard area is enclosed on all sides
by a solid fence or wall at least six feet (6') in height and no supplies,
products, materials or equipment are stacked higher than the fence or wall.
      25.   Businesses engaged in wholesaling, assembly, or manufacturing must
be within a completely enclosed building and must have a retail component on
site.
      26.   Semitruck washes and/or semitruck polishing, semitruck servicing,
or semitruck tires only when ancillary to a travel plaza/truck stop and in
accordance with the provisions outlined in subsection
10-7-3B8 of this chapter. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005; amd. Ord. 09-2015, 1-5-2016)
      27.   Medical marijuana dispensary, subject to the requirements of
section
10-11-18, "Medical Marijuana Uses", of this title.
      28.   Medical marijuana cultivation location, subject to the requirements
of section
10-11-18, "Medical Marijuana Uses", of this title. (Ord. 04-2011b, 5-17-2011;
amd. Ord. 09-2015, 1-5-2016)
10-7-3: USES SUBJECT TO CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
   A.   C-1 Neighborhood Commercial District: The following uses are permitted
in the C-1 neighborhood commercial district only after review and approval of a
conditional use permit in accordance with section
10-3-4 of this title. Conditional uses are subject to all other applicable
standards of this title and those requirements that may reasonably be imposed
by the town council. If a specific use is not listed as either a permitted use
or a conditional use, it is prohibited.
      1.   Churches or places of worship except those existing at the time of
the adoption of this title.
      2.   Public schools, private schools, or parochial schools or boarding
schools.
      3.   Grocery stores under thirty thousand (30,000) square feet.
      4.   Mixed use neighborhood center for permitted retail, service or
office use; each business not to exceed four thousand (4,000) square feet with
the total center not to exceed thirty thousand (30,000) square feet with no
drive-through window facilities.
   B.   C-2 Community Commercial District: The following uses are permitted in
the C-2 community commercial district only after review and approval of a
conditional use permit in accordance with section
10-3-4 of this title. Conditional uses are subject to all other applicable
standards of this title and those requirements that may reasonably be imposed
by the town council. If a specific use is not listed as either a permitted use
or a conditional use, it is prohibited.
      1.   Outdoor entertainment and amusement facilities such as drive- in
theaters, game arcade, miniature golf, batting cages, go-cart tracks and
similar uses.
      2.   Small animal boarding facilities and pet grooming facilities,
including outdoor exercise area, provided all animals are kept indoors, and no
outside runs are permitted.
      3.   Social service and community service agency facilities such as
plasma centers, charity dining services, homeless shelters, day labor hiring
centers, substance abuse detoxification and treatment centers, rescue missions,
and other similar social service uses.
      4.   Churches or places of worship except those existing at the time of
the adoption hereof.
      5.   Public schools, private schools, or parochial schools or boarding
schools.
      6.   Big box retail.
      7.   Retail sales conducted outdoors as a primary use, such as, but not
limited to, swap meets, flea markets and auctions.
      8.   Travel plazas or truck stops subject to the following:
         a.   The lot or parcel for the travel plaza/truck stop use shall be no
more than five hundred feet (500') from a state highway interchange right of
way.
         b.   The minimum lot or parcel size shall be twenty (20) acres.
         c.   All off site public roadway improvements, including, but not
limited to, 1) right and left turn lanes and; 2) driveway and access points
shall be in compliance with the American Association State Transportation and
Highway Officials (AASTHO) standards.
         d.   On site improvements, including, but not limited to, 1) turning
radius; 2) drive aisle dimensions and; 3) parking stall dimensional standards
shall be in compliance with the American Association State Transportation and
Highway Officials (AASTHO) standards.
         e.   Any fuel dispenser, perimeter of underground storage tanks or
pumps shall be a minimum of one hundred feet (100') from any residential zoning
district and at least forty feet (40') from any property line or public right
of way line.
         f.   All vehicular parking along with the necessary maneuvering areas,
drive aisles and driveways shall be contained on the same parcel or lot and
shall be paved with asphalt or concrete to a sufficient thickness to withstand
repeated vehicular traffic.
         g.   A fifteen foot (15') wide landscaped buffer area shall be
provided along all property lines. There shall be no parking permitted within
this buffer area.
         h.   Outdoor lighting standards shall be fully shielded, shall not
exceed a height of thirty feet (30'), and shall be in compliance with the
regulations of chapter 14 of this title.
         i.   A masonry sound attenuation wall of at least six feet (6') in
height shall be installed along all property lines that abut or are adjacent to
a residential zoning district or use.
         j.   All truck washing and/or polishing shall be under a canopied bay
and all truck engine repair shall be under a roofed structure if such amenities
are provided.
         k.   A minimum of one toilet, one sink, and one hot shower provided
for men and one toilet, one sink, and one hot shower provided for women, each
designed for complete privacy, for each twenty (20) truck parking spaces
provided, or fraction thereof.
         l.   A common use laundry facility shall be provided at a ratio of one
washer and one dryer for each twenty (20) truck parking spaces provided, or
fraction thereof.
         m.   At least one public telephone shall be provided.
         n.   Parking stalls shall be in accordance with the parking standards
in chapter 13 of this title. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-7-4: USES SUBJECT TO TEMPORARY USE PERMIT:
   A.   The following uses are permitted in the C-1 and C-2 commercial
districts only after review and approval of a temporary use permit, in
accordance with section
10-3-5 of this title. Temporary uses are subject to all other applicable
standards of this title and those requirements that may reasonably be imposed
by the zoning administrator or board of adjustment. If a specific use is not
listed as a permitted use, a conditional use, or a temporary use, it is
prohibited.
      1.   Seasonal or cultural activities such as pumpkin sales lots and
Christmas tree sales lots. Permanent structures shall not be permitted under a
temporary use permit. Seasonal lots may need additional zoning clearance and/or
a building permit.
      2.   Temporary residential use of a travel trailer by the seasonal tenant
may be permitted on site for security purposes for the seasonal or cultural
sales activity provided it is located within the buildable area of the lot.
(Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-7-5: DESIGN STANDARDS REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Site Design Standards In OT District:
      1.   Office or service activities should be conducted entirely within the
street frontage of the buildings and on the first floor of the buildings.
      2.   Residential uses are encouraged as a mixed use with the office or
service activities provided they are located behind the commercial frontage on
the first floor or on the second floor above the office or service uses.
      3.   The structures shall mirror a residential design to be compatible
with the residential neighborhood. Front porches and courtyards are strongly
encouraged and should provide a pedestrian connection, other than the driveway,
to the street.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/aafe5f4495f34483a0a5aa27eb6ffd889002f0d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-991.gif]
 
      4.   All exterior elevations (360 degree architecture) shall provide
architectural detailing, not just the front elevation. Window embellishments
shall be provided by adding architectural features which enhance the elevations
(e.g., sturdy synthetic wood substitutes, greater variation of window design,
different window styles, tile inlays and recesses, structural popouts, gabled
roof features over the windows, etc.).
   B.   Site Design Standards In C-1 District:
      1.   Link structures to the public sidewalk where possible with textured
pavement, landscaping, street furniture, canopies or trellises.
      2.   Outdoor patios, display areas and seating areas are encouraged to
add to the pedestrian environment at the street.
      3.   All required off street parking spaces shall be located in the rear
or to the side of the structures to avoid visibility from public streets and
the interruption to the rhythm of the established streetscape.
      4.   A solid perimeter wall, a minimum of six feet (6') in height, shall
be required along and adjacent to the side or rear property line of a
commercial development that abuts a residential district whether separated by
an alley or not. Any access gates shall be constructed of view obscuring
material to provide effective site screening.
      5.   All sides of perimeter walls shall be decoratively treated to match
the architectural style and design of the commercial product.
      6.   Trash and refuse collection locations shall be screened with a six
foot (6') decorative masonry wall. Trash and refuse areas shall be located such
that they are not the visual focal point of a driveway or parking area, or
cannot be viewed from a public street.
   C.   Site Design Standards In C-2 Districts:
      1.   All new multi-building commercial developments (subdivisions) shall
be subject to all requirements set forth in the Parker subdivision ordinance.
      2.   Every commercially zoned (C-2) lot, parcel and/or development shall
provide fifteen percent (15%) open space.
      3.   Parking areas adjacent to the required front yard shall be screened
by a decorative wall or landscape berm or combination thereof to a height not
to exceed three feet (3') in order to adequately screen the undercarriages of
the parked vehicles.
      4.   Parking areas other than in front of the principal building are
strongly encouraged.
      5.   Trash and refuse collection locations shall be screened with a six
foot (6') decorative masonry wall. Trash and refuse areas shall be located such
that they are not the visual focal point of a driveway or parking area, or
cannot be viewed from a public street. Projects which provide on site daily
management and maintenance personnel (i.e., service stations and convenience
markets), and which have refuse enclosures at highly visible locations, shall
provide latching gates for screening the opening to the enclosure.
      6.   Equipment such as, but not limited to, vending machines should be
screened from street view and placed in an area designed for their use, as an
integral part of the structure.
      7.   Service and loading bays (car wash, automotive service, tire, etc.)
should be oriented away from adjacent residential zoning district and should
not front onto or be visible from the public street.
      8.   Outside storage areas shall be screened from the public street view
and adjacent residences, office, and other commercial uses to a height of at
least six feet (6'). Materials shall not be stacked, piled, or stored in such a
manner as to project above the screen wall.
      9.   Drive-through windows should not face a public street.
      10.   Link structures to the public sidewalk where possible with textured
pavement, landscaping, street furniture and canopies.
      11.   A solid perimeter wall, a minimum of six feet (6') in height, shall
be required along and adjacent to the side or rear property line of a
commercial development that abuts a residential district whether separated by
an alley or not. Any access gates shall be constructed of view obscuring
material to provide effective site screening.
      12.   All sides of perimeter walls shall be decoratively treated to match
the architectural style and design of the commercial product.
      13.   Building site details related to utility boxes, transformers,
generators, chiller farms, mailboxes, trash bins and air conditioning units
shall be integrated into the overall design of the building and/or development
and screened from view, yet remain accessible for servicing.
   D.   Architectural Requirements For All Commercial Zoning Districts:
      1.   All exterior elevations (360 degree architecture) shall provide
architectural detailing, not just the front elevation.
      2.   Exterior building design, as well as architectural details related
to color, patterning, finish, type and application of materials and building
form, shall be coordinated for all elevations of a building to achieve harmony
and continuity of design on all elevations.
      3.   The building materials of a project shall be durable, require low
maintenance, and be of a substantial quality.
      4.   Mechanical equipment, and similar utility devices, whether ground
level or roof mounted, shall be screened from public view and designed to
appear as an integral part of the building. The mechanical equipment screening
shall be included in the overall building height. Mechanical equipment shall be
treated to be nonreflective. Electrical meters, service components, and SES
cabinets shall be screened from public view and designed to appear as an
integral part of the building.
      5.   The use of metal or corrugated metal shall only be permitted as an
architectural accent or decorative element with no more than twenty percent
(20%) of any one side being exposed metal (excluding bay doors, entry doors,
and roof).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/aafe5f4495f34483a0a5aa27eb6ffd889002f0d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-993.gif]
      6.   Roof access shall be from within the building.
      7.   Architectural diversity shall be provided. Assurance of
architectural diversity will be made by limiting the length of wall planes and
providing variations in rooflines, in heights, in finish floors and in
elevation. Buildings that have a single wall plane greater than eighty feet
(80') in length shall, at least once, vary the roofline by a minimum of two
feet (2') in height and should have a minimum of three (3) varying roof masses.
      8.   Reflective building materials are prohibited. Mirrored surfaces or
any treatment that changes ordinary glass into a mirrored surface are
prohibited. Metallic surfaces, including roof materials, shall be chemically
treated to be nonreflective.
      9.   Subtler, less intense colors should be used on larger, more plain
looking buildings, while the use of a greater variety and intensity of color
should be reserved for smaller structures. The use of accent colors is
encouraged to provide a festive and lively streetscape. Color should be used to
accent entryways and special architectural features of a building. Paint and
material colors shall have a light reflective value (LRV) no greater than forty
percent (40%). Limited use of contrasting accent colors in excess of forty
percent (40%) LRV for small elements such as entryways and special
architectural features of the building may be allowed.
      10.   Full roof architecture utilizing simple and varied roof forms is
encouraged for all new commercial development, while long, continuous mansard
roofs, false mansard roofs, large expanses of flat roofs and veneer (false
front) parapets are discouraged. Parapet walls shall be designed and
constructed in a manner to appear as a solid, three-dimensional form rather
than a veneer.
   E.   Additional Requirements For Large Scale Retail And Big Box Uses:
      1.   All commercial centers with over one hundred thousand (100,000)
square feet shall provide a pedestrian shopping design with sidewalks, seating,
trees, lighting, pedestrian scale signage, and connectivity to and through the
parking areas. At least one significant pedestrian amenity, such as an outdoor
seating area, a courtyard, or play area for children shall be provided for
every one hundred thousand (100,000) gross square feet of structure. Required
pedestrian amenities may be combined into one or more locations, in order to
create a larger amenity.
      2.   Parking areas shall be distributed around the big box buildings in
order to shorten the distance to other buildings and public sidewalks and to
reduce the overall scale of the paved surface. No more than fifty percent (50%)
of the off street parking area for the entire property shall be located between
the front facade of the principal building(s) and the primary abutting street.
      3.   Pedestrian walkways within the commercial centers shall be
differentiated from driving surfaces through a change of materials.
      4.   All buildings on the same site shall be architecturally unified.
This provision shall apply to new construction, additions and remodeling.
"Architectural unity" means that buildings shall be related in architectural
style, color scheme, and building materials.
      5.   Flat, monolithic facades are not permitted. A building facade shall
employ both vertical and horizontal articulation. Facades greater than eighty
feet (80') in length must incorporate wall plane recesses and projections
having a depth of at least five percent (5%) of the length of the facade and
extending at least twenty percent (20%) of the length of the facade. The
building facade shall incorporate both horizontal and vertical elements.
      6.   Display windows, awnings, entry areas, and arcades must total at
least sixty percent (60%) of the big box building facade length abutting a
public street.
      7.   Storefronts with no windows and small doors are not permitted.
Storefronts on large retail users shall exhibit a minimum of forty five percent
(45%) void (openings) to fifty five percent (55%) solid (wall) ratio.
      8.   A variety of roof types are permitted. Distinct and interesting
rooflines, instead of flat roofed structures, shall be required. A substantial
cornice should be used at the top of a parapet wall or roof edge, providing a
distinctive cap to the building facade.
      9.   Large retail uses and big box uses that have outdoor storage areas
shall incorporate the outdoor storage area into the architecture of the primary
building. Screening materials and colors shall be consistent with the overall
theme of the building. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-7-6: REVIEW PROCESS:
   A.   All commercial development and construction shall require site plan
review, by the planning and zoning commission, prior to the applicant's
submittal for building or grading permits. All applications for site plan
review shall comply with the submittal requirements outlined in section
10-3-7 of this title. The required fee shall accompany all applications. (Ord.
03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-7-7: COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER PROVISIONS:
   A.   General Provisions: The general provisions in
chapter 11 of this title shall apply.
   B.   Landscape Regulations: The landscaping provisions in
chapter 12 of this title apply.
   C.   Parking Regulations: The parking regulations are as provided in
chapter 13 of this title.
   D.   Outdoor Lighting: All outdoor lighting shall comply with
chapter 14 of this title.
   E.   Signs: All signage shall comply with
chapter 15 of this title. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-7-8: DENSITY, AREA, BUILDING AND YARD REGULATIONS:
The chart, which follows, specifies the minimum lot sizes, minimum lot width,
maximum building heights, minimum yard setbacks, and maximum lot coverage
percentages.
   TABLE 3
   COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
 
         Area          Width    Building Minimum Yard Setback (Feet)        Lot
District (Square Feet) (Feet)   Height   Front    Side   Street   Rear      Coverage
                                (Feet)                   Side
  OT          7,   503   40    20        10353        50
               8,   701,4                   1   204   104 percent
  C-1         7,   503   40    20    1   20    102 50
               10   804                                            percent
  C-2         7,   503   403   102   0   10202        60
               22   100   754   204          204          percent
 
Notes:
   1.   If the property is a corner lot an additional 10 feet lot width is
required.
   2.   If the property line or adjoining street abuts a residential zone the
setback shall be 20 feet.
   3.   Standards for development within "Parker Central".
   4.   Standards for development within "Parker South".
   5.   Building height shall be limited to 5 stories.
(Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
CHAPTER 8
INDUSTRIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-8-1: Purpose
10-8-2: Permitted Uses
10-8-3: Uses Subject To Conditional Use Permit
10-8-4: Prohibited Uses In Industrial Zoning Districts
10-8-5: Design Standards Requirements
10-8-6: Review Process
10-8-7: Compliance With Other Provisions
10-8-8: Density, Area, Building And Yard Regulations
10-8-1: PURPOSE:
The industrial zoning districts are designed to provide for a range of
industrial land uses. The purpose of these districts is to provide for
industrial development in locations, which are suitable and appropriate, taking
into consideration existing conditions, future land use needs, the availability
of public services, the general public's health and safety, and the goals and
objectives of the Parker general plan. It is intended that these districts
accommodate a variety of uses including corporate offices and garden industrial
land uses to warehousing and general manufacturing. The industrial districts
are further delineated in the following categories:
   A.   I-1 light industrial zoning district: The purpose of this zoning
district is to provide for a mix of light manufacturing uses, office park, and
limited open land uses in an attractive business park setting with proper
screening and landscaping, all compatible with adjoining uses. It is intended
that this district allow for employment bases through the establishment of high
quality, planned industrial centers for corporate offices and indoor
manufacturing uses in close proximity to major access routes for the transport
of products, materials, and employees.
   B.   I-2 general industrial zoning district: The purpose of this zoning
district is to provide for areas of general and concentrated fabrication,
manufacturing, processing and open land uses appropriately screened and
landscaped that are in close proximity to major access routes for the transport
of products, materials, and employees. It is intended that this district
provide adequate space for industrial operations and related activities so that
the economic base of the town may be strengthened and employment opportunities
expanded while protecting residential and commercial land uses from
objectionable encroachments and negative impacts. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-8-2: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   I-1 Light Industrial District: Permitted uses in the I-1 light
industrial district shall be only those uses listed as permitted by right or
permitted as a conditional use within this zoning district; all other uses are
prohibited. Permitted uses are subject to all other applicable standards of
this title. No building permit shall be issued for a use not specifically
mentioned and for which the town has not issued an approval.
      1.   Laboratories for research and product development, including testing
facilities.
      2.   Corporate offices/headquarters.
      3.   Broadcasting stations and studios and publishing facilities.
      4.   Product distributorships, wholesale and warehouse facilities,
excluding transfer facilities for general freight.
      5.   Assembling, fabrication, handling and packaging, treating, and
renovating goods, merchandise, products and equipment, excluding agricultural
products, provided that such uses shall conform to the following requirements:
         a.   The primary use of the property is not the basic processing and
compounding of raw materials.
         b.   All activities pertaining to the actual manufacture or processing
of the product involved shall be conducted entirely within the enclosed
building.
         c.   All outdoor storage of material or equipment, as ancillary to the
primary use, shall occupy the rear one-half (1/2) of the lot.
         d.   A masonry wall shall screen all outdoor storage of materials or
equipment.
      6.   Limited retail commercial, provided the products sold at retail are
the products which are manufactured as the primary use and the retail area does
not exceed ten percent (10%) of the gross floor area.
      7.   Commercial kennels, animal shelters, and veterinary hospitals with
outdoor boarding or exercise facilities.
      8.   Agribusiness and aquaculture business, provided such businesses are
conducted within a completely enclosed building or under a roofed structure
that is screened from all adjacent properties and public view.
      9.   Wireless communication towers and antennas, provided that they are
located on property owned, leased, or otherwise controlled by the town of
Parker, and in accordance with the requirements of
chapter 16 of this title.
      10.   Off site parking, either as a primary use or accessory to any use
located on an adjoining lot or parcel, all subject to the requirements of
chapter 13 of this title.
      11.   Semitruck washes and/or semitruck polishing, semitruck servicing,
or semitruck tires, only when ancillary to a travel plaza/truck stop and in
accordance with the provisions outlined in subsection
10-8-3A3 of this chapter. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
      12.   Medical marijuana dispensary, subject to the requirements of
section
10-11-18, "Medical Marijuana Uses", of this title.
      13.   Medical marijuana cultivation location, subject to the requirements
of section
10-11-18, "Medical Marijuana Uses", of this title. (Ord. 04-2011b, 5-17-2011)
      14.   Ministorage facility provided they are used solely for personal
storage purposes with no outdoor open storage allowed. Quarters for security
personnel may be an accessory use with town approval.
      15.   RV and boat storage facility, provided any outdoor storage area is
enclosed on all sides by a solid fence or wall at least eight feet (8') in
height. (Ord. 09-2015, 1-5-2016)
   B.   I-2 General Industrial District: Permitted uses in the I-2 general
industrial district shall be only those uses listed as permitted by right or
permitted as a conditional use within this zoning district; all other uses are
prohibited. Permitted uses are subject to all other applicable standards of
this title. No building permit shall be issued for a use not specifically
mentioned and for which the town has not issued an approval.
      1.   Those uses permitted in the I-1 light industrial zoning district.
      2.   Refining, processing, or packaging of organic matter, raw
agricultural products, or edible food products.
      3.   Truss plant.
      4.   Manufacturing and assembly of furniture, apparel, glass, stone,
clay, leather, plastic, metal or concrete products.
      5.   Open storage yards for the storage of boats, trailers, and
recreational vehicles provided that there is no storage of abandoned, damaged,
or junked boats, trailers or recreational vehicles and that an eight foot (8')
high decorative view obscuring wall screens the open storage yard area.
      6.   Heavy equipment repair, sales and rentals, provided equipment is
stored in a transportable position.
      7.   Farm equipment and implement repair, sales and rentals.
      8.   Construction offices and construction equipment storage yards,
provided that the construction equipment storage yards are screened with an
eight foot (8') high solid masonry wall.
      9.   Retail and wholesale lumberyard, including incidental millwork.
      10.   Bulk sales of landscape construction materials and rock products.
      11.   Freight transfer facilities including highway, rail or air
transport.
      12.   Wireless communication towers and antennas, provided that they are
located on property owned, leased, or otherwise controlled by the town of
Parker, and in accordance with the requirements of
chapter 16 of this title. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-8-3: USES SUBJECT TO CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
   A.   I-1 Light Industrial District: The following uses are permitted in the
I-1 light industrial district only after review and approval of a conditional
use permit in accordance with section
10-3-4 of this title. Conditional uses are subject to all other applicable
standards of this title and those requirements that may reasonably be imposed
by the town council. If a specific use is not listed as either a permitted use
or a conditional use, it is prohibited.
      1.   Wireless communication towers and antennas as approved in accordance
with the requirements of
chapter 16 of this title.
      2.   Motor freight transfer facilities.
      3.   Travel plazas or truck stops, subject to the following:
         a.   The lot or parcel for the travel plaza/truck stop use shall be no
more than five hundred feet (500') from a state highway interchange right of
way.
         b.   The minimum lot or parcel size shall be twenty (20) acres.
         c.   All off site public roadway improvements, including, but not
limited to: 1) right and left turn lanes and; 2) driveway and access points
shall be in compliance with the American Association State Transportation and
Highway Officials (AASTHO) standards.
         d.   On site improvements, including, but not limited to: 1) turning
radius; 2) drive aisle dimensions and; 3) parking stall dimensional standards
shall be in compliance with the American Association State Transportation and
Highway Officials (AASTHO) standards.
         e.   Any fuel dispenser, perimeter of underground storage tanks or
pumps shall be a minimum of one hundred feet (100') from any residential zoning
district and at least forty feet (40') from any property line or public right
of way line.
         f.   All vehicular parking along with the necessary maneuvering areas,
drive aisles and driveways shall be contained on the same parcel or lot and
shall be paved with asphalt or concrete to a sufficient thickness to withstand
repeated vehicular traffic.
         g.   A fifteen foot (15') wide landscaped buffer area shall be
provided along all property lines. There shall be no parking permitted within
this landscaped buffer area.
         h.   Outdoor lighting standards shall be fully shielded, shall not
exceed a height of thirty feet (30'), and shall be in compliance with the
regulations of
chapter 14 of this title.
         i.   A masonry sound attenuation wall of at least six feet (6') shall
be installed along all property lines that abut or are adjacent to a
residential zoning district or use.
         j.   All semitruck washing and/or polishing shall be under a canopied
bay and all semitruck engine repair or servicing of any kind shall be under a
roofed structure, if such amenities are provided.
         k.   A minimum of one toilet, one sink, and one hot shower provided
for men and one toilet, one sink, and one hot shower provided for women, each
designed for complete privacy, for each twenty (20) truck parking spaces
provided, or fraction thereof.
         l.   A common use laundry facility shall be provided at a ratio of one
washer and one dryer for each twenty (20) truck parking spaces provided, or
fraction thereof.
         m.   At least one public telephone shall be provided.
         n.   Parking stalls shall be in accordance to the parking standards in
chapter 13 of this title.
   B.   I-2 General Industrial District: The following uses are permitted in
the I-2 general industrial district only after review and approval of a
conditional use permit in accordance with section
10-3-4 of this title. Conditional uses are subject to all other applicable
standards of this title and those requirements that may reasonably be imposed
by the town council. If a specific use is not listed as either a permitted use
or a conditional use, it is prohibited.
      1.   Wireless communication towers and antennas as approved in accordance
with the requirements of
chapter 16 of this title.
      2.   Extraction and processing of minerals and natural resources, such as
mines, quarries and gravel pits.
      3.   Facilities for the manufacturing and distribution of concrete and
asphalt.
      4.   Adult oriented uses, subject to the following conditions or
limitations:
         a.   The proposed adult oriented use shall not be established,
operated or maintained within two thousand feet (2,000') from any public park
or playground, school, daycare center, library, or religious or cultural
activity.
         b.   The proposed adult oriented use shall not be established,
operated or maintained within two thousand feet (2,000') from any other adult
oriented use or any residential zone boundary.
         c.   Advertisements, displays or other promotional materials
displaying or depicting "specified anatomical areas" or "specific sexual
activities" shall not be shown or exhibited so as to be visible or audible to
the public from adjacent streets, sidewalks or walkways or from other areas
outside the establishment; and all building openings, entries and windows for
adult oriented uses shall be located, covered or screened in such manner as to
prevent the interior of such premises from being viewed from outside the
establishment.
         d.   An adult oriented use lawfully operating as a conforming use
shall not be rendered a nonconforming use by the subsequent location of a
residential district or residential use, public park or playground, daycare
center, place of worship or assembly, or school within two thousand feet
(2,000') of said adult oriented use.
         e.   Such distances shall be measured between subject lot lines at
their closest proximity on an aerial view without regard for intervening
structures or topography.
         f.   A map showing the particular property or properties for which the
application is being requested and the adjacent properties, buildings and
structures, land uses, and public streets and ways within a radius of two
thousand feet (2,000') of the exterior boundaries thereof shall be submitted
along with the application for a conditional use permit.
      5.   Recycling transfer stations or automated collection centers,
municipal or county landfills.
      6.   Hazardous waste and biohazardous medical waste treatment facilities.
      7.   Water and sewer treatment plants and utility generating plants.
      8.   Travel plazas or truck stops in accordance with the provisions
outlined in subsection A3 of this section.
      9.   Automobile wrecking and salvage yards, storage of junk automobiles
and trucks, storage and processing of scrap metals, provided that such uses
shall conform to the following requirements:
         a.   The property shall be screened from neighboring properties and
public view with an eight foot (8') high solid masonry wall.
         b.   No storage shall be visible above the wall. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-
2005)
10-8-4: PROHIBITED USES IN INDUSTRIAL ZONING DISTRICTS:
   A.   The following uses are prohibited in both the I-1 and I-2 industrial
districts including, but not limited to:
      1.   Churches or places of worship except for those existing at the time
of the adoption hereof.
      2.   Private schools, or parochial schools or boarding schools.
      3.   Commercial or residential land uses. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-8-5: DESIGN STANDARDS REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Site Design Standards In I-1 And I-2 Zoning Districts:
      1.   Every I-1 and I-2 zoned lot, parcel and/or development shall provide
ten percent (10%) open space.
      2.   All new industrial developments (subdivisions) shall be subject to
all requirements set forth in the Parker subdivision ordinance.
      3.   Parking areas adjacent to the required front yard shall be screened
by a decorative wall or landscape berm or combination thereof to a height not
to exceed three feet (3') in order to adequately screen the undercarriages of
the parked vehicles. All required front and street side side yards shall be
landscaped and shall not be used for parking, maneuvering, product display or
drive aisle, other than for the necessary points of ingress and egress.
      4.   Trash and refuse collection locations shall be screened with a six
foot (6') high decorative masonry wall. Trash and refuse areas shall be located
such that they are not the visual focal point of a driveway or parking area, or
cannot be viewed from a public street. Refuse locations in highly visible
locations shall provide latching gates for screening the opening to the
enclosure.
      5.   Building site details related to utility boxes, transformers,
generators, chiller farms, mailboxes, trash bins and air conditioning units
shall be integrated into the overall design of the building and/or development
and screened from view, yet remain accessible for servicing.
      6.   Service and loading bays should be oriented away from adjacent
residential zoning districts and should not front onto or be visible from the
public street.
      7.   All activities not within an enclosed building and all outside
storage areas shall be screened from the public street view and adjacent
residential, office, and commercial uses with a minimum six feet (6') high
solid wall or fence. Materials shall not be stacked, piled, or stored in such a
manner as to project above the screen wall.
      8.   A solid perimeter wall, a minimum of six feet (6') in height, shall
be required along and adjacent to the side or rear property line of an
industrial development that abuts a residential district whether separated by
an alley or not. Any access gates shall be constructed of view obscuring
material to provide effective site screening.
      9.   All sides of perimeter walls shall be decoratively treated to match
the architectural style and design of the industrial building/development.
   B.   Architectural Requirements In I-1 And I-2 Zoning Districts:
      1.   All exterior elevations (360 degree architecture) shall provide
architectural detailing, not just the front elevation.
      2.   Exterior building design, as well as architectural details related
to color, patterning, finish, type and application of materials and building
form, shall be coordinated for all elevations of a building to achieve harmony
and continuity of design on all elevations.
      3.   The building materials of a project shall be durable, require low
maintenance, and be of a substantial quality.
      4.   Mechanical equipment, electrical meter and service components, and
similar utility devices, whether ground level or roof mounted, shall be
screened from public view and designed to appear as an integral part of the
building. The mechanical equipment screening shall be included in the overall
building height. Mechanical equipment shall be treated to be nonreflective.
      5.   The use of metal or corrugated metal shall only be permitted as an
architectural accent or decorative element and not the primary building
material that is visible from the public street or adjacent residential or
commercial properties.
      6.   Buildings that have a single wall plane greater than eighty feet
(80') in length shall, at least once, vary the roofline by a minimum of three
feet (3') in height.
      7.   Reflective building materials are prohibited. Mirrored surfaces or
any treatment that changes ordinary glass into a mirrored surface are
prohibited. Metallic surfaces, including roof materials, shall be chemically
treated to be nonreflective.
      8.   Subtler, less intense colors should be used on larger, more plain
looking buildings, while the use of a greater variety and intensity of color
should be reserved for smaller structures. Color should be used to accent
entryways and special architectural features of a building. Paint and material
colors shall have a light reflective value (LRV) no greater than forty percent
(40%).
      9.   Full roof architecture utilizing simple and varied roof forms is
encouraged for all new industrial development while long, continuous mansard
roofs, false mansard roofs, large expanses of flat roofs and veneer (false
front) parapets are discouraged. Parapet walls shall be designed and
constructed in a manner to appear as a solid, three-dimensional form rather
than a veneer. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-8-6: REVIEW PROCESS:
   A.   All industrial development and construction shall require site plan
review, by the planning and zoning commission, prior to the applicant's
submittal for building or grading permits. All applications for site plan
review shall comply with the submittal requirements outlined in section
10-3-7 of this title. The required fee shall accompany all applications. (Ord.
03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-8-7: COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER PROVISIONS:
   A.   General Provisions: The general provisions in
chapter 11 of this title shall apply.
   B.   Landscape Regulations: The landscaping provisions in
chapter 12 of this title apply.
   C.   Parking Regulations: The parking regulations are as provided in
chapter 13 of this title.
   D.   Outdoor Lighting: All outdoor lighting shall comply with
chapter 14 of this title.
   E.   Signs: All signage shall comply with
chapter 15 of this title. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-8-8: DENSITY, AREA, BUILDING AND YARD REGULATIONS:
The chart, which follows, specifies the minimum lot sizes, minimum lot width,
maximum building heights, minimum yard setbacks, and maximum lot coverage
percentages.
   TABLE 4
   INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
 
         Area          Width   Building Minimum Yard Setback (Feet)   Lot
District (Square Feet) (Feet)  Height   Front    Side  Street   Rear  Coverage
                               (Feet)                  Side
  I-1         7,   50   40    103      103   60
               20   1004          204         204      percent
  I-2         7,   50   403   102      102   60
               40   20   754   204         203      percent
 
Notes:
   1.   If the property is a corner lot an additional 10 feet lot width is
required.
   2.   If the property line or adjoining street abuts a residential zone the
setback shall be 20 feet.
   3.   Standards for development within "Parker Central".
   4.   Standards for development within "Parker South".
   5.   Building height shall be limited to 5 stories.
(Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
CHAPTER 9
OPEN SPACE AND PUBLIC LAND ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-9-1: Purpose
10-9-2: Permitted Uses
10-9-3: Uses Subject To Conditional Use Permit
10-9-4: Prohibited Uses
10-9-5: Review Process
10-9-6: Compliance With Other Provisions
10-9-7: Density, Area, Building And Yard Regulations
10-9-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the open space zoning districts is to conserve and protect open
spaces, desert washes and floodplains, wildlife habitat, and lands agreed to be
left undeveloped through the plan approval process. The primary purpose of
designating these areas is to raise the degree of assurance that designated
open space for conservation and recreational areas will remain open as well as
to further the goals and objectives of the Parker general plan. The open space
districts are further delineated in the following categories:
   A.   OSC open space conservation zoning district: The purpose of this zoning
district is to conserve wildlife corridors, significant natural features,
natural or historic wetland areas, and open space lands within the community.
   B.   OSR open space recreational zoning district: The purpose of this zoning
district is to provide for land uses in areas generally subject to periodic
flooding. It is further intended to provide for land uses in areas that have
been set aside to serve recreational functions or to provide open space areas.
   C.   PL public land zoning district: The purpose of this zoning district is
to provide for those governmental and public uses which are necessary to serve
the public at various locations throughout the incorporated area, and to
distinguish them from private uses. It is intended that this district establish
regulations and standards to ensure that governmental and public uses are not
exempt from regulation. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-9-2: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   OSC Open Space Conservation District: Permitted uses in the OSC open
space conservation district shall be only those uses listed as permitted by
right or permitted as a conditional use within this zoning district; all other
uses are prohibited. Permitted uses are subject to all other applicable
standards of this title. No building permit shall be issued for a use not
specifically mentioned and for which the town has not issued an approval.
      1.   Growing and harvesting of field crops, trees, flowers and
vegetables.
      2.   Nurseries for the propagation and growing of plants, trees, bushes,
flowers, and vegetables and other food crops without an on site retail or
wholesale component.
      3.   Public or community gardens, provided they are a minimum of ten (10)
acres in size.
      4.   Undeveloped natural land.
      5.   Unpaved trails or pathways for use by hikers, bicyclists, and
equestrians.
      6.   Archaeological or historic sites.
   B.   OSR Open Space Recreation District: Permitted uses in the OSR open
space recreational district shall be only those uses listed as permitted by
right or permitted as a conditional use within this zoning district; all other
uses are prohibited. Permitted uses are subject to all other applicable
standards of this title. No building permit shall be issued for a use not
specifically mentioned and for which the town has not issued an approval.
      1.   Private golf course, including clubhouse and driving range located
thereon, but not including miniature golf courses or stand-alone practice
driving ranges, operated for commercial purposes, when not associated with a
golf course.
      2.   Private parks maintained by a homeowners' or property owners'
association.
      3.   Paved or unpaved trails or pathway systems for use by hikers,
bicyclists, pedestrians, and equestrians, including trailheads for such uses.
      4.   Manmade water features and watercourses, canals, dams, and retention
areas.
      5.   Public or private arboretums, wildlife reserves or sanctuaries.
      6.   Utility services, but not including offices, treatment plants
generating stations, substations, switching or splitting stations.
   C.   PL Public Land District: Permitted uses in the PL public land district
shall be only those uses listed as permitted by right or permitted as a
conditional use within this zoning district; all other uses are prohibited.
Permitted uses are subject to all other applicable standards of this title. No
building permit shall be issued for a use not specifically mentioned and for
which the town has not issued an approval.
      1.   Public parks, including, but not limited to, picnic grounds,
playgrounds, athletic playing fields, swimming pools, golf courses,
fairgrounds, and rodeo grounds.
      2.   Public schools (K–12), athletic fields, and playgrounds.
      3.   Government office buildings and grounds, excluding storage and
equipment yards.
      4.   Community activity centers and facilities, and civic and convention
centers for group assembly, display, and exhibition.
      5.   Public facilities and institutions such as hospitals, art centers
and museums.
      6.   Publicly owned or operated libraries, fire stations, police stations
and post offices.
An application for rezoning to PL public land shall only be made by an agency
of the local, state, or federal government. In the event that a government
agency leases or disposes of its land that is zoned PL, the land may not be
developed or used in any manner, and the town shall not issue any type of
permit, until the land has been rezoned by the new lessee or landowner. (Ord.
03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-9-3: USES SUBJECT TO CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
   A.   OSR Open Space Recreational District: The following uses are permitted
in the OSR open space recreational district only after review and approval of a
conditional use permit in accordance with section
10-3-4 of this title. Conditional uses are subject to all other applicable
standards of this title and those requirements that may reasonably be imposed
by the town council. If a specific use is not listed as either a permitted use
or a conditional use, it is prohibited.
      1.   Retail operation when in conjunction with and accessory to a
permitted use including, but not limited to, snack bars, restaurant, gift shop,
equipment sales or rental.
      2.   Commercial riding and boarding stables, provided the site contains
at least ten (10) acres. Additional acreage may be required based on the number
of horses stabled thereon.
   B.   PL Public Land District: The following uses are permitted in the PL
public land district only after review and approval of a conditional use permit
in accordance with section
10-3-4 of this title. Conditional uses are subject to all other applicable
standards of this title and those requirements that may reasonably be imposed
by the town council. If a specific use is not listed as either a permitted use
or a conditional use, it is prohibited.
      1.   Retail operation when in conjunction with and accessory to a
permitted use including, but not limited to, snack bars, restaurant, gift shop,
equipment sales or rental.
      2.   Outdoor storage yards for government vehicles, equipment, and
materials.
      3.   Public safety and law enforcement facilities, including detention
centers.
      4.   Recycling transfer stations or automated collection centers,
municipal or county landfills.
      5.   Water and sewer treatment plants and utility generating plants.
      6.   Airports, whether civilian or military. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-9-4: PROHIBITED USES:
   A.   OSC Open Space Conservation District: The following uses are prohibited
in the OSC open space conservation district including, but not limited to:
      1.   All industrial land uses.
      2.   All commercial land uses, except for a visitor center operated in
conjunction with an archaeological or historic site.
      3.   All residential land uses, except that a single dwelling may be
permitted when in conjunction with the growing and harvesting of field crops,
trees, flowers and vegetables or for on site security when in conjunction with
an archeological or historic site.
      4.   Churches or places of worship and private or parochial schools.
   B.   OSR Open Space Recreational District: The following uses are prohibited
in the OSR open space recreational district including, but not limited to:
      1.   All residential and industrial land uses.
      2.   Churches or places of worship, except for those existing at the time
of the adoption hereof.
      3.   Private schools, parochial schools or boarding schools. (Ord. 03-
2005, 9-6-2005)
10-9-5: REVIEW PROCESS:
   A.   All development and construction within the open space and public land
zoning districts shall require site plan review, by the planning and zoning
commission, prior to the applicant's submittal for building or grading permits.
All applications for site plan review shall comply with the submittal
requirements outlined in section
10-3-7 of this title. The required fee shall accompany all applications. (Ord.
03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-9-6: COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER PROVISIONS:
   A.   General Provisions: The general provisions in
chapter 11 of this title shall apply.
   B.   Landscape Regulations: The landscaping provisions in
chapter 12 of this title apply.
   C.   Parking Regulations: The parking regulations are as provided in
chapter 13 of this title.
   D.   Outdoor Lighting: All outdoor lighting shall comply with
chapter 14 of this title.
   E.   Signs: All signage shall comply with
chapter 15 of this title. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-9-7: DENSITY, AREA, BUILDING AND YARD REGULATIONS:
The chart, which follows, specifies the minimum lot sizes, minimum lot width,
maximum building heights, minimum yard setbacks, and maximum lot coverage
percentages.
   TABLE 5
   OPEN SPACE AND PUBLIC LAND DISTRICTS
 
         Area           Width  Building Minimum Yard Setback (Feet) Lot
District (Square Feet)  (Feet) Height   Front Side Street Side Rear Coverage
                               (Feet)
  OSC         10 60res  24       40    20   20          40   2 percent
  OSR         5 a60es   24       40    20   20          40   5 percent
  PL          7,5501    40       252   0    252         0    50 percent
               20,1002
 
Notes:
   1.   Standards for development within "Parker Central".
   2.   Standards for development within "Parker South".
(Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
CHAPTER 10
OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A.  PLANNED AREA DEVELOPMENT (PAD)
SECTION:
10-10A-1: Purpose
10-10A-2: Permitted Uses
10-10A-3: General Provisions
10-10A-4: Submittal Requirements
10-10A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the planned area development (PAD) overlay district is to
provide both the town and the development community greater flexibility when
developing a project by establishing the associated development standards
appropriate to the specific PAD. The intent is to encourage innovative design
and to allow for a creative land use mix that will promote a high quality
development reflective of the unique character and setting of the town of
Parker. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-10A-2: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   The PAD overlay zoning district is to be used in conjunction with the
underlying zoning district, thereby permitting the same land uses as the
underlying base zoning district except those that may be excluded by the town
council. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-10A-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   The minimum land area for a PAD overlay shall be forty (40) acres and
shall be under one common ownership.
   B.   Any PAD overlay zoning district shall provide a minimum of twenty
percent (20%) of the net acreage as open space regardless of the type of
residential development or density. Not more than fifty percent (50%) of the
required open space shall be attributed to golf course use or ancillary golf
uses. "Net acres" shall be defined as the total acres exclusive of the area
required for arterial or collector street right of way dedications, commercial
or industrial land, and school/public site reservations.
   C.   The PAD may allow for variations to the underlying zoning district
development standards, only in the following areas: 1) minimum lot area; 2)
minimum setbacks; and 3) maximum lot coverage. The specific development
standards for the PAD are to be suggested by the developer with the final
determination approved by the town council. Unless otherwise approved, the
development standards for the underlying zoning district shall apply.
   D.   The PAD overlay zoning district shall not be used to alter the
underlying zoning district development standards for maximum building height,
nor to exceed the residential target densities, identified in the general plan,
unless the developer provides creative site design, design innovation,
diversity of lot sizes and product styles, additional open space and community
amenities, which are in excess of the normal requirements of this title.
   E.   Each PAD development shall provide, at a minimum, two (2) distinct
variations to the residential densities and, depending on the size of the
development, more variation in density may be required. For every lot under six
thousand (6,000) square feet in size, one lot of eight thousand (8,000) square
feet or larger shall be provided. Also, each residential PAD development shall
provide at least two (2) distinct "product styles" (product styles do not
equate to changes in elevations or floor plans).
   F.   Compliance with this title "design standard requirements" for the
zoning districts and the subdivision design standards shall be required
regardless of the specific development standards approved for the PAD.
   G.   Requests for a PAD overlay zoning district shall follow the general
procedures and those specified for rezoning as outlined in chapter 3 of this
title.
   H.   Any modifications to an approved PAD development plan shall be reviewed
and processed in accordance with those procedures outlined for rezoning in
chapter 3 of this title.
   I.   An application for a PAD overlay zoning district shall not be
considered as a protected development right plan nor shall the applicant
request that a PAD be accepted as a protected development right plan.
   J.   Compliance with all other provisions of this title, such as, but not
limited to, the general provisions, parking regulations, outdoor lighting,
shall be required. Compliance with the regulations of this title in no way
excuses a property owner or a developer from the requirements of the
subdivision ordinance, if applicable. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-10A-4: SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Preliminary Development Plans: A preliminary development plan, in
addition to submitting the material outlined in section
10-3-3 of this title, shall submit, at a minimum, the following materials for
review:
      1.   The conceptual design guidelines, prepared by a designer or team of
designers having professional competence in urban planning, shall be submitted
for the entire project and shall include a narrative and graphical description
of the development character, site planning, architecture, integration of the
development into its surroundings, and the landscaping that can be expected
from the development.
      2.   A preliminary landscape plan, prepared by a registered Arizona
landscape architect, for all on site and off site, open space, trails, and
retention area landscaping. This preliminary plan should also include
information on landscaping in compliance with chapter 12 of this title; the
proposed plant palette; the type and locations of paths and trails within and
adjacent to the development; the location and elevation of any proposed fencing
and walls; the location of any proposed street furniture or public art.
      3.   A preliminary sign package, including the location, size,
illumination, number, design and type of the project signage.
      4.   A preliminary drainage report that at a minimum indicates or
delineates the boundaries of on site and off site drainage areas; the proposed
drainage patterns of the development and the preexisting patterns; runoff
factor and runoff data; retention volume and location of drainage easements.
The town engineer may request other data necessary to review the proposed
development.
      5.   A preliminary traffic study, prepared by a registered professional
traffic engineer or civil engineer, that at a minimum addresses on site and off
site traffic flows, project impacts and mitigation measures, anticipated trip
generations, and level of service. The town engineer may request other data
necessary to review the proposed development.
      6.   A phasing plan/schedule. If the project is to be developed in phases
each phase shall contain a mix of residential densities, product designs and be
self-sufficient, meeting the requirements, standards and conditions applicable
to the project as a whole. Additionally, each phase of the project shall be
self-sufficient in regard to facilities, utilities, and services.
   B.   Final Development Plans: A final development plan may be submitted in
lieu of a preliminary development plan, provided that the necessary detailed
plans are submitted. In addition to submitting the material outlined in section
10-3-3 of this title, a final development plan submittal shall include, at a
minimum, but not be limited to, the following materials for review:
      1.   All of the plans and reports required for a preliminary development
plan review as outlined in subsection A of this section.
      2.   The specific design guidelines, prepared by a designer or team of
designers having professional competence in urban planning, shall be submitted
in addition to specific site plans and building elevations. The project's
design guidelines should further address the overall architectural theme,
architectural diversity, relationship of buildings to each other and the land,
wall and screening treatments, open space (both undisturbed and usable open
space), and the project's management mechanisms and development CC&Rs.
      3.   A final landscape plan, prepared by a registered Arizona landscape
architect, shall include, but not be limited to, a detailed list of plant
species, plant sizes, and specific quantities. The landscape plan shall depict
specific plant locations, the type and location of all walls and fencing,
proposed location and material types for paths and trails, identify the line of
sight requirements, and any other information deemed necessary by the town to
adequately review the final landscape plan.
      4.   A comprehensive sign package that includes information regarding the
color(s), material(s), size, location, type of sign (e.g., attached,
freestanding, kiosk, window, shingle, etc.), letter samples for all of the
types of proposed signage and any other information deemed necessary by the
town to adequately review the comprehensive sign package.
      5.   A final drainage report that is a complete report and not an
addendum to the preliminary drainage report.
      6.   Provide a certificate of assured 100-year water supply issued by the
Arizona department of water resources.
      7.   A copy of an approved permit required pursuant to section 404 of the
federal clean water act, if one is required for the development location.
      8.   If determined by the zoning administrator to be necessary, a copy of
the economic and feasibility study for the proposed PAD development shall be
submitted to and reviewed by the town.
      9.   If determined by the zoning administrator to be necessary, a "visual
analysis" that illustrates the anticipated visual effects of the proposed
development, identifies and addresses scenic viewsheds and view corridors that
should be protected, and illustrates the mass and form of the proposed
development, shall be submitted to and approved by the town.
   C.   The applicant submitting for a PAD rezoning has the choice of
submitting for a preliminary development plan or a final development plan
depending upon the level of detail they are prepared to submit to the town. The
applicant must declare which development plan review process they intend to
submit at the time of application.
   D.   Approval of the preliminary development plan is valid for a period of
one year from the date of town council approval. Application for the final
development plan must be submitted to the town, along with the application fee
and all required material listed above, within one year from the date of
preliminary development plan approval, or the town may revoke the preliminary
development plan. Revocation shall be processed in accordance with the
procedures established for rezoning as outlined in chapter 3 of this title.
(Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
ARTICLE B.  MANUFACTURED HOME (MH)
SECTION:
10-10B-1: Purpose
10-10B-2: Permitted Uses
10-10B-3: General Provisions
10-10B-4: Submittal Requirements
10-10B-5: Review Criteria
10-10B-6: Design Standards
10-10B-7: Uses Subject To Conditional Use Permit
10-10B-8: Exception
10-10B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the manufactured home (MH) overlay district is to provide for an
overlay zone that will permit the placement and regulate the permanent
installation of manufactured homes for occupancy as single residential
dwellings on individual lots or within an approved land lease development. The
intent of these provisions is to provide affordable and diversified housing
opportunities within the town of Parker while establishing and maintaining
standards. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-10B-2: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   The MH overlay zoning district may only be applied to the medium
density residential zoning districts of R1-10 and R1-7. Permitted uses in an MH
manufactured home overlay zoning district shall be only the following uses:
      1.   Permitted uses by right within the underlying medium density
residential zoning districts (R1-10 and R1-7).
      2.   Approved manufactured homes.
      3.   Approved manufactured land lease (park) developments. (Ord. 03-2005,
9-6-2005)
10-10B-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   A minimum of ten (10) acres shall be required to establish the
manufactured home overlay zoning district for a manufactured home subdivision
with individual lot sales.
   B.   A minimum of fifteen (15) acres shall be required to establish the
manufactured home overlay zoning district for a land lease (park) development.
   C.   A variety of densities are possible depending upon the residential base
zone to which the overlay zone is applied.
   D.   The manufactured home overlay zoning district is an overlay zone and
may be combined only with the underlying medium density residential zoning
districts (R1-10 and R1-7). The provisions of the underlying zoning district
shall govern the density, area, building and yard regulations. Compliance with
all other provisions of this title shall likewise be required.
   E.   Manufactured homes shall meet the most current HUD code standards, all
regulations of the office of manufactured housing, as well as compliance with
all the provisions outlined in subsection
10-10B-6 of this article.
   F.   The manufactured home shall not be more than three (3) years old prior
to the date of application for building/installation permit.
   G.   Compliance with all other provisions of this title, such as, but not
limited to, the general provisions, parking regulations, signage, outdoor
lighting, shall be required. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-10B-4: SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   A property owner seeking to develop a manufactured home subdivision or
a land lease (park) development shall submit those materials outlined in the
subdivision ordinance or subsection 10-3-3E of this title; whichever is
applicable.
   B.   The property owner seeking to place a manufactured home on an
individual lot or in a space within a manufactured home land lease (park)
development shall be required to obtain a building permit prior to the
installation of the manufactured home. Prior to submitting the building permit
application to the building department the owner shall submit the following
materials to the zoning administrator for review and approval:
      1.   Site plan.
      2.   Elevations or color photographs of all sides of the structure.
      3.   Roof slope (expressed in a ratio horizontal to vertical feet) and
roofing material description.
      4.   Description of any proposed additions or alterations including
photographs where possible.
      5.   Description of the exterior finish including materials and colors.
(Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-10B-5: REVIEW CRITERIA:
   A.   In order for a manufactured home to be placed on an individual lot
where the manufactured home overlay zone has been approved or within an
approved manufactured home land lease (park) development the manufactured home
shall be reviewed for compliance with the following criteria:
      1.   The residence should be situated on the lot in a compatible manner
with surrounding residences through location of windows, doors, front porches,
other architectural features, or landscaping.
      2.   The structure is in compliance with all of the design standards
outlined in subsection
10-10B-6A of this article.
      3.   The structure shall meet the most current HUD code standards, is
certified under the national manufactured housing construction and safety
standards act of 1974 and the laws of the state of Arizona and is in good
physical condition structurally and cosmetically.
      4.   The structure was constructed not more than three (3) years prior to
date of application for building/installation permit.
   B.   If the manufactured home is to be placed on a space within a land lease
(park) development it shall be in compliance with the specific design standards
approved by the town council for that development.
   C.   If the zoning administrator determines that any one of the four (4)
criteria stated in subsection A of this section has not been met, the
application will be referred to the board of adjustment for final review with
written notice of why the application failed to meet the required criteria.
   D.   The board of adjustment shall consider the manufactured home
application and the zoning administrator's report. If satisfied that all of the
criteria have been met, the board may approve the application. If the board
finds that any one of the stated criteria has not been met, the board may deny
the application. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-10B-6: DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Manufactured Homes: The manufactured homes within an overlay zone,
whether an individual lot (subdivision) or a land lease (park) development,
shall be designed and situated to assure similarity in exterior appearance and
in keeping with the architectural character of the neighboring site built
dwellings and the character of the surrounding neighborhood in general. More
specifically the following provisions shall apply:
      1.   Minimum Width: The minimum width of the main portion of the
structure shall be twenty four feet (24') (doublewide), exclusive of any garage
or carport area, as measured across the narrowest portion.
      2.   Grading: Unless the topography of a particular lot precludes it, the
manufactured home shall be installed no higher from grade than eighteen inches
(18") (from ground to frame) on the highest side, and not less than twelve
inches (12") on the low side. The building official is authorized to approve
minor deviations from the height requirement after inspection of the property
to determine such deviation is necessary because of lot conformity.
      3.   Foundations: The manufactured home shall be ground set and placed on
an excavated foundation with permanent foundation wall so that the home appears
to have a foundation wall similar in appearance and kind to conventional site
built homes.
      4.   Exterior Siding: Exterior siding shall be made of nonreflective and
nonmetallic materials. Acceptable siding materials include vinyl, wood, stucco,
brick, stone, or other masonry materials or any combination of these materials.
The use of T1-11 siding (rough sawn plywood siding with vertical grooves at 4
inches or 8 inches OC) or similar material shall be prohibited.
      5.   Roof Structure And Materials: All roof structures shall be sloped
and provide an eave projection of no less than six inches (6") and no greater
than thirty inches (30"). Unfinished galvanized steel, unfinished aluminum,
wood shake shingles, or fiberglass/asphalt shingles less than three hundred
twenty five (325) pounds per one hundred (100) square feet shall not be
permitted.
      6.   Mechanical Equipment: All manufactured home running gear, tongues,
axles, and wheels must be removed at the time of installation. Mechanical
equipment such as electrical meter, coolers and air conditioning units, service
components, and similar devices, whether ground level or wall mounted, shall be
screened and designed to appear as an integral part of the building. Vegetative
material may be used as a screening device if the plant material used is of a
variety and size to sufficiently screen the equipment.
      7.   Garage Or Carports: The manufactured home shall have at a minimum a
single car garage or carport, the design and materials of which shall be
compatible with the main structure.
      8.   Accessory Structures: If a front porch, deck or veranda is provided,
it shall be covered or under roof. Uncovered porches, decks, or verandas are
permitted on the side and rear of the home, provided they meet the setback
requirements of this title.
      9.   Steps: If the dwelling unit has steps leading to the front entry,
the steps shall be attached to a permanent foundation and designed and
constructed to be an integral part of the exterior of the dwelling unit.
      10.   Anchor Ties: The structure shall be anchored to the ground, in
accordance with approved manufactured home installation standards for high wind
areas.
      11.   Additions: All additions and alterations shall be in compliance
with the uniform building code (UBC) as adopted by the town or in compliance
with the most current HUD code standards and the housing manufacturer's
specifications.
   B.   Subdivision Design:
      1.   Subdivision design shall be processed in accordance with the Parker
subdivision ordinance.
      2.   Subdivision design shall be in compliance with the design standards
of the Parker subdivision ordinance.
      3.   All units subsequently placed on the individual lots shall comply
with all the provisions outlined in subsection A of this section, as well as
those of the underlying zoning district.
   C.   Land Lease (Park) Design: The manufactured home land lease (park)
development shall comply with the following design elements in addition to the
requirements imposed by the underlying zoning district:
      1.   Space Size: Each manufactured home space shall comply with the area
requirements of the underlying zoning district.
      2.   Setbacks: Each manufactured home space shall comply with the setback
requirements of the underlying zoning district.
      3.   Open Space: Each manufactured home land lease (park) development
shall provide at least ten percent (10%) of the net area for open space. Such
open space areas may include active recreational areas such as community
buildings, swimming pools, play areas or passive park space. Recreation or
community buildings shall be of conventional construction.
      4.   Prohibitions: A recreational vehicle may not be used as a
residential dwelling. The storage of abandoned and/or damaged manufactured
homes shall not be permitted.
      5.   Compliance: All units subsequently placed on the individual spaces
shall comply with all the provisions outlined in subsection A of this section,
except that a singlewide unit of sixteen feet (16') may be permitted, as well
as those of the underlying zoning district.
      6.   Utilities And Streets:
         a.   Location: All utilities within a manufactured home land lease
development shall be located underground.
         b.   Water: Connection to the water system serving the town of Parker
and installation of fire hydrants meeting the standards of the town of Parker
are required.
         c.   Sewer: Connection to the public sewer system serving the town of
Parker is required.
         d.   Spaces: Each space shall be equipped with electricity, potable
water, and wastewater disposal facilities.
         e.   Streets: Each development shall be improved with paved private
streets built to the specifications of the town of Parker.
         f.   Sidewalks: Each development shall be improved with sidewalks
built to the specifications of the town of Parker.
         g.   Access: No manufactured home space shall have direct vehicular
access to a public street or private street outside of the development.
      7.   Site Design:
         a.   A solid decorative masonry wall, six feet (6') in height shall be
required on the perimeter of the park.
         b.   Trash and refuse collection locations shall be screened with a
six foot (6') decorative masonry wall. Trash and refuse areas shall be located
such that they conveniently serve the residents of the park and cannot be
viewed from a public street.
         c.   Landscaping, of the adjacent public rights of way, shall be
required as part of any development and shall consist of drought tolerant
indigenous plant materials. A minimum of one tree and three (3) shrubs and/or
organic ground cover shall be required every thirty (30) linear feet of street
frontage.
   D.   Deviations: The zoning administrator may approve deviations from one or
more of the developmental or architectural standards provided herein on the
basis of finding that the materials to be utilized or the architectural style
proposed for the dwelling would be compatible and harmonious with existing
structures in the vicinity. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-10B-7: USES SUBJECT TO CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
   A.   Manufactured Homes On Parcels Or Individual Lots: Pursuant to the
requirements of section
10-3-4 of this title, a property owner may apply for a conditional use permit
to place a manufactured home on a parcel or individual lot which does not meet
the minimum width requirements for the individual manufactured home as stated
in this article. The remaining development standards, as outlined in subsection
10-10B-6A of this article, may not be varied or deleted by the granting of a
conditional use permit. The criteria for granting a conditional use permit
shall be based upon the following:
      1.   There currently exists a manufactured home or mobile home on the
property which does not meet the twenty four foot (24') width requirement (is
not multisectional).
      2.   The configuration of the lot or parcel involved would preclude the
placement of a twenty four foot (24') manufactured home on said lot or parcel.
However, this does not permit the placement of a manufactured home on a lot
that does not meet the minimum area requirements for the zoning district in
which it is located.
      3.   The upgrade would be beneficial to the residents of the town of
Parker after considering all relevant factors including, but not limited to,
aesthetics, safety, and health.
      4.   Provisions of this article, other than the width of the structure,
will be complied with by the applicant.
   B.   Deviations: The planning commission and town council may approve
deviations from one or more of the design standards provided herein (i.e., roof
slope, foundation, mechanical equipment screening) on the basis of finding that
the materials to be utilized or the architectural style proposed for the
dwelling will be compatible and harmonious with existing structures in the
vicinity. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-10B-8: EXCEPTION:
This overlay district shall not prohibit the continued occupancy of a
noncertified mobile home or manufactured home, located and occupied as a
private residence, within the town at the time of adoption hereof, that is: a)
not located within an approved MH overlay zone; and/or, b) is not in compliance
with the design standards of this chapter. Existing mobile homes or
manufactured homes that are not in compliance with the design standards of this
chapter at the time of its adoption shall be brought into compliance as
additions or alterations to the structures are requested as may be required by
the provisions of this title on nonconforming structures. The existing mobile
home or manufactured home may be replaced in its entirety only with a
manufactured home that is in compliance with all of the design standards
outlined in subsection 10-10B-6A of this article and all other provisions of
this title. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
ARTICLE C.  COMMUNITY CORE (CC)
SECTION:
10-10C-1: Purpose
10-10C-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the community core (CC) overlay district is to allow a diverse
mixed use area for specialty retail, neighborhood residential, and tourist
trade in the historic town center area. The intent of this overlay district is
to maintain and enhance the character of the few remaining historic buildings
within the downtown area while promoting a pedestrian oriented specialty retail
district by encouraging the improvement of the pedestrian environment,
delineating the appropriate land uses within the district, and ensuring new
buildings are designed to be compatible with the historic fabric of the area
and in a human scale. It is intended that this district have specific design
standards imposed. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
CHAPTER 11
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-11-1: Purpose
10-11-2: Use Restrictions
10-11-3: Redividing Of Recorded Lots
10-11-4: Street Dedication Requirements
10-11-5: Unsuitable Sites
10-11-6: Performance Standards
10-11-7: Projections Into Required Yards
10-11-8: Height Limitations
10-11-9: Accessory Buildings And Uses
10-11-10: Fences And Walls
10-11-11: Swimming Pools
10-11-12: Home Occupations
10-11-13: Outdoor Storage And Junk Automobiles
10-11-14: Dumping And Disposal
10-11-15: Temporary Events Or Uses
10-11-16: Recreational Vehicle Parks
10-11-17: Recreational Vehicle Subdivisions
10-11-18: Medical Marijuana Uses
10-11-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish general development and performance
standards applicable to all zoning districts. The standards and regulations set
forth in this chapter shall qualify or supplement, as the case may be, the
district regulations set forth elsewhere in this title. Any use that is not
specifically allowed or not analogous shall hereby be declared to be
prohibited. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-11-2: USE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Permitted Uses: Shall be only those uses listed as permitted uses
within the zoning districts and shall be subject to the specific requirements
of this title.
   B.   Conditional Uses: Shall be only those uses listed as conditional uses
and shall require a conditional use permit in order to be established within
the zoning district in which they are listed.
   C.   Zoning Clearance: Is the verification by the zoning administrator, or
his/her designated representative, indicating that the proposed building,
structure, or use meets all the requirements of this title at the time of
building permit review if applicable. Zoning clearances shall be required for
all development and construction activities addressed within this title. Any
change in use shall also require a zoning clearance.
   D.   Building Permits: Shall be required for all development and
construction activities addressed within the adopted building codes as well as
other policies, codes, or ordinances adopted by the town of Parker. Building
permits shall be obtained prior to any development or construction activity.
(Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-11-3: REDIVIDING OF RECORDED LOTS:
   A.   No lot may be divided to create a lot not in conformance with these
regulations. No lot shall be divided or combined in any manner other than
through subdivision procedures as specified by the town of Parker subdivision
ordinance.
   B.   No lot may be reduced in area so as to cause any open space or yard
required by this title to be less in dimension than is required for the zoning
district and lot in question. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-11-4: STREET DEDICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All lots shall abut a dedicated and accepted public street connecting
to the publicly dedicated and accepted street system. Through the PAD process
as described in chapter 10 of this title, the town council may allow private
streets.
   B.   Except for lots abutting private streets, which have been specifically
approved by the town council for a PAD, a building permit shall not be issued
for a recorded lot which does not abut a dedicated and accepted public street
and the abutting street does not connect to the publicly dedicated and accepted
street system.
   C.   Prior to the acceptance by the town of the dedication of a public
street, such street shall be designed, graded, and paved in accordance with the
provisions of all applicable street standards of the town of Parker. (Ord. 03-
2005, 9-6-2005)
10-11-5: UNSUITABLE SITES:
No land shall be used or structure erected if the town engineer or the town's
consulting engineer has determined, based on accepted engineering principles
and practices, that the land is unsuitable for such use or structure by reason
of potential flooding, concentrated runoff, inadequate drainage, adverse soil
or rock formation, extreme topography, low percolation rate or bearing
strength, erosion susceptibility or any other feature or features which may
render such use or structure likely to be harmful to the health, safety and
general welfare of the community. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-11-6: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   Every activity, operation or land use shall comply with the following
performance standards regardless of the zoning district in which it is located.
The zoning administrator shall be responsible for ensuring compliance with
these performance standards and shall invoke the provisions for enforcement of
compliance with these performance standards wherever there is reasonable
evidence that performance standards are being violated by such activity,
operation or use.
      1.   Glare And Heat: Any activity producing intense glare or heat shall
be performed within a completely enclosed building in such a manner as not to
create a nuisance or hazard along lot lines.
      2.   Lighting: No light that flashes, revolves, or otherwise resembles a
traffic control signal shall be allowed in any area where such light could
create a hazard for passing vehicular traffic. All outdoor lighting shall be
installed, maintained, and utilized in conformance with chapter 14 of this
title.
      3.   Fire And Explosion Hazards: All disposal of waste materials by
outdoor incineration on the premises is expressly prohibited. All storage of,
and other activities involving inflammable and explosive materials shall be
provided adequate safety devices against hazards of fire and explosion,
together with adequate firefighting and fire suppression equipment and devices
standard in industry. All storage of inflammable or explosive materials shall
further comply with location requirements set forth by the fire department or
as established by this or other town codes and ordinances.
      4.   Vibration: Every use shall be so operated that the ground vibration
inherently and recurrently generated is not discernable, without instruments,
at any point beyond the site property line.
      5.   Fly Ash, Dust, Fumes, Vapors, Gases And Other Forms Of Air
Pollution: No emission shall be permitted which can cause damage to health, to
animals, or vegetation, or other forms of property, or which can cause
excessive soiling.
      6.   Liquids And Solid Waste: No materials (organic or inorganic),
compounds or chemicals, which can contaminate any water supply, interfere with
bacterial process in sewerage treatment or otherwise cause emission of elements
which are offensive or hazardous to the public health, safety, welfare or
comfort shall be discharged at any point into any public sewer, private sewage
disposal system or stream or into the ground, except in accordance with the
standards approved by the Arizona state department of health and/or
environmental quality or such governmental agency as may have jurisdiction over
such activities.
      7.   Odors: No emission of odorous gases or other odorous matter shall be
permitted in such quantities as to be offensive in such a manner as to create a
nuisance or hazard beyond the site property line.
      8.   Noise: No use shall result in noise perceptible beyond the
boundaries of the immediate site of the use that exceed the levels, engender
annoyance, or create an unhealthy environment for adjacent properties.
      9.   Flooding: No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed,
located, extended, converted, or altered within any "area of special flood
hazard" that would create a public nuisance or create a hazard to life or
property. Encroachment into the floodway, within any area of special flood
hazard, shall be prohibited including, but not limited to, fill, new
construction, substantial improvements, and other development, unless
certification by an Arizona registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood
levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-
2005)
10-11-7: PROJECTIONS INTO REQUIRED YARDS:
   A.   The space in any required yard shall be open and unobstructed, except
for the ordinary projections of chimney flues, awnings, open outside stairways
and balconies, windowsills, belt courses, cornices, eaves and other
architectural features, provided such features shall not project farther than
three feet (3') into any required yard, and provided further that in no case
shall such projections be nearer than five feet (5') to the property line.
   B.   Bay windows, including their cornices and eaves, may project into any
required yard not more than three feet (3'), provided the sum of such
projections on any wall does not exceed one-third (1/3) the length of the wall
and provided that in no case shall such projections be nearer than five feet
(5') to the property line.
   C.   Mechanical equipment, such as air conditioners, may be constructed
within any yard in conformance with this title, provided that in no case shall
said mechanical equipment create an open side yard area of less than five feet
(5'). This open clear area extends from the front of the structure to five feet
(5') beyond the rear of the structure. All mechanical equipment shall be
screened from public view.
   D.   A covered unenclosed one-story porch (nonlivable) may project into a
required front yard a distance not to exceed ten feet (10') but shall not
extend into any required side yard.
   E.   A side entry garage may project into a required front yard a distance
not to exceed ten feet (10') but shall not extend into any required side yard.
   F.   For properties zoned R1-7, and located only within the "Parker Central"
area, an open carport or shade structure may be allowed to project into the
required front yard and/or into the required side yard, but shall not extend
beyond the property lines. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-11-8: HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Building Height: No building shall be erected, reconstructed, or
structurally altered to exceed the height limitations designated for the zone
in which such building or structure is located. Height regulations established
elsewhere in this title shall not apply to the following:
      1.   In any district, to church spires, belfries, cupolas and domes not
for human occupancy, public monuments, water towers, grain elevators or
necessary mechanical appurtenances associated with agricultural produce
processing, flagpoles for displaying the USA or state of Arizona flags. Also
noncommercial radio or television antennas or wireless communication towers as
approved in accordance with the requirements of chapter 16 of this title.
      2.   Chimneys in residential districts may be two feet (2') above the
roofline of the residential structure, even if the roofline is at the maximum
building height.
   B.   Height Limitation On Corner Lots: Notwithstanding any other provisions
in any zoning district, the height of any buildings, fences, walls, retaining
walls, gateways, ornamental structures, hedges, shrubbery and other fixtures,
and construction and landscape plantings on corner lots in all zoning districts
shall be limited as follows:
      1.   Height shall not exceed two feet (2') above the established
elevation of the intersecting streets for a distance of twenty five feet (25')
on local residential streets along the front and side lot lines and within the
triangle formed by the connection of these two (2) lot lines, and thirty three
feet (33') on collector and arterial streets along the front and side lot lines
and within the triangle formed by the connection of these two (2) lot lines.
(See exhibit 1 of this section.)
      2.   Within this triangle, and in cases where front yards are terraced,
the ground elevation of such front yards also shall not exceed two feet (2')
above the established street elevation of the intersecting streets.
Exhibit 1 - Clear Sight Triangle
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/aafe5f4495f34483a0a5aa27eb6ffd889002f0d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1052.gif]
 
(Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-11-9: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND USES:
   A.   Accessory buildings or uses shall not be constructed or established on
a lot until construction of the principal building has been actually commenced
or the primary use established except in the RR-20 and RR-2.5 zoning districts.
   B.   Accessory buildings shall not be used for dwelling purposes except for
a guesthouse or an agricultural living quarters as permitted elsewhere in this
title.
   C.   All accessory buildings and accessory uses, such as, but not limited
to, guesthouses, agricultural living quarters, barns and corrals, garages, and
swimming pools, shall require building permits and/or zoning clearance and
shall adhere to any applicable provisions elsewhere in this title.
   D.   Accessory buildings shall be set back a minimum of three feet (3') from
the rear and interior side property lines. If located closer than six feet (6')
to the principal dwelling, then the accessory structure must be attached to the
principal dwelling through an integral roof structure a minimum of six feet
(6') in width, except for owner assembled garden sheds under one hundred twenty
(120) square feet in size.
   E.   In the case of corner lots, accessory buildings shall maintain side
yard setbacks from the street side lot line as required for the main structure
in that zone; and when a garage is entered from an alley, it shall not be
located nearer than ten feet (10') to the alley line.
   F.   Accessory buildings shall not exceed the height regulations of the
zoning district within any part of the buildable lot area, and shall not exceed
fifteen feet (15') in height in any required yard.
   G.   All accessory buildings or uses, except for wells and related well
equipment, shall have the same electrical meter as the principal building or
use, unless the public utility determines that a separate meter is required for
safety reasons which shall be determined on a case by case basis.
   H.   Sea containers and semitrailers shall be prohibited in all residential
and commercial zoning districts as a principal or accessory building and/or
use. Manufactured homes may not be used as an accessory building in any
district. Railroad cars shall be prohibited in all residential zoning districts
as a principal or accessory building and/or use. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-11-10: FENCES AND WALLS:
   A.   Permit Required: No person, firm or corporation, except for an
agricultural activity in the RR-20 or RR-2.5 zoning districts, shall construct,
or cause to be constructed or erected, any fence or wall within the city,
without first making application for and obtaining a building permit for such
construction.
   B.   Construction; Maintenance; Repair: Every fence or wall shall be
constructed in a workmanlike manner and be of a conventional fencing material
such as masonry, preformed concrete sections, treated wood, or wrought iron
except as may be specified elsewhere within this title. Any materials not
specified as approved within this title shall not be used. Every fence or wall
shall be maintained in a condition of good repair and shall not be allowed to
become and remain in a condition of disrepair, damage, or unsightliness, and
shall not be allowed to constitute a public or private nuisance. Any such fence
or wall that is, or has become, dangerous to the public safety, health or
welfare, or has become unsightly through improper maintenance or neglect, shall
be deemed to be a public nuisance, and the zoning administrator may commence
proper proceedings for the abatement of such nuisance.
   C.   Location: All fences and walls shall be located entirely on the private
property of the person, firm or corporation constructing, or causing the
construction of any such fence or wall, unless the owner of the adjoining
property agrees, in writing, that such fence or wall may be erected on the
division line of the respective properties, except where otherwise restricted
by this title.
   D.   Height Restrictions: In all districts a fence or wall or hedge may be
erected or maintained at a height no greater than three feet (3') within the
required front or street side setback. In all residential districts the maximum
height of any fence or wall located outside of the buildable area of the lot
shall be six feet (6'). Within the commercial and industrial districts the
maximum fence or wall height shall be eight feet (8') except that fences or
walls abutting a residential district shall not exceed six feet (6') in height.
These height regulations shall not apply when fences or walls of greater height
are required by the planning and zoning commission or town council in order to
provide adequate screening as required by this title. Utility companies, which
are regulated by the Arizona corporation commission, and schools, public and
quasi-public institutions including correctional facilities, may be allowed
increased fence heights due to national or state standards.
   E.   Corner Lots And Key Lots:
      1.   On a corner lot contiguous to a key lot a fence, wall, or hedge over
three feet (3') in height may be placed on the street side property line,
except within a triangle measured from the front lot line of the key lot
extending ten feet (10') along the common property line and ten feet (10')
measured from the common property line extending along the street side property
line of the corner lot towards the front property line of the corner lot.
      2.   On a key lot contiguous to a corner lot, a fence, wall, or hedge not
exceeding six feet (6') in height may be erected along the property line
contiguous with the rear yard of the corner lot, but such fence, wall or hedge
shall not come closer to the front lot line of the key lot than ten feet (10').
   Exhibit 2 - Fencing For Corner And Key Lots
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/aafe5f4495f34483a0a5aa27eb6ffd889002f0d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1054.gif]
   F.   Measurement: Fence and wall heights shall be measured at the outside of
the wall from low side natural grade to the top of the wall.
   G.   Finished Elevation: Any fence or wall that is constructed to have only
one elevation "finished", which shall be defined as not having its supporting
members significantly visible (stucco, paint, etc.), shall be erected so that
the finished elevation of the fence is exposed to the adjacent property or
street.
   H.   Gates: An arched entry gate/feature may be permitted within the front
yard setback, provided it is an integral part of an approved front yard wall
and does not exceed a height of eight feet (8') nor a width of eight feet (8').
   I.   Electrical Fences: Electrical fences shall be prohibited except around
public or quasi-public facilities when necessary for the restraint of the
occupants and within the RR-20 zoning district for the containment of animals.
   J.   Barbed Wire And Concertina (Razor) Wire:
      1.   Barbed wire and concertina wire are prohibited in all residential
zoning districts.
      2.   Barbed wire may be permitted in commercial and industrial zoning
districts for security purposes surrounding allowed outdoor storage areas,
provided the barbed wire is located six feet (6') or more above grade and
angled inward so as not to be visible from public view.
   K.   Tennis Court Fences: Fences surrounding a tennis court shall not exceed
twelve feet (12') in height and must conform to the principal building setback
requirements for the zoning district within which it is located. (Ord. 03-2005,
9-6-2005)
10-11-11: SWIMMING POOLS:
   A.   Any swimming pool along with incidental installations, such as pumps
and filters, shall be completely enclosed by a permanent fence, wall or barrier
to restrict access to the swimming pool from public property, from adjoining
private property, and directly from all dwelling units or guestrooms of a
hotel, motel or resort development located on the same premises as the swimming
pool.
   B.   Swimming pools along with incidental installations, such as heater,
pump and filter or other mechanical equipment used in association with a
private swimming pool may be located in required yards, other than the required
front yard, provided such pool sets back from all lot lines a minimum distance
of three feet (3'). Any such mechanical equipment shall be situated so that no
exhaust, vibration, noise, or other nuisance creates a disturbance to the
adjoining property.
   C.   The protective pool enclosure and barrier shall not contain openings
that might be used for foothold or handhold climbing purposes and shall not be
less than five feet (5') nor more than six feet (6') in height.
   D.   Residential structure walls containing exterior entry doors or windows
shall not open directly into the pool enclosure area.
   E.   Access to the swimming pool area shall be through barrier walls or
gates that are equipped with a minimum five foot (5') high self-closing and
self-latching gate which shall open outward away from the pool with the latch/
lock placed at least fifty four inches (54") above the underlying ground and
with the closing device (spring, pneumatic) at least thirty six inches (36")
above the underlying ground. Any vertical opening(s) or opening(s) at ground
level in a pool enclosure fence (e.g., wrought iron) shall be of such size that
a spherical object four inches (4") in diameter cannot pass through the opening
(s). Wrought iron or wood barriers or enclosures shall be constructed with at
least fifty four inches (54") between the top surfaces of the horizontal
members.
   F.   In all residential districts, contained bodies of water, either above
or below ground level, with the container being eighteen (18) or more inches in
depth and/or wider than eight feet (8') at any point, measured perpendicular to
the long axis, shall conform to the location and fencing requirements for
swimming pools. Irrigation and storm water retention facilities, and the water
features in public parks and golf courses are exempt from the fencing
requirements of this section. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-11-12: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
   A.   A home occupation shall be considered a permitted accessory use in all
residential districts, provided that it is operated and maintained to not
interfere with the peace, quiet, and dignity of the "property owners" or
"neighbors" (defined as those who live nearby where the occupation can be seen
or heard or other nuisance impacts detected), if it complies with the following
regulations:
      1.   All home occupations shall be clearly incidental and subordinate to
the use of the property and dwelling unit for dwelling purposes. A valid town
sales tax and/or business license shall be maintained for the home occupation
use.
      2.   Is conducted entirely from within the principal residence, garage,
or accessory building and shall not change the residential character thereof.
Carports and yards may not be used for home occupations. Exceptions to this
provision shall be made for swimming lessons or in home daycare.
      3.   No more than twenty five percent (25%) of the gross floor area of
the dwelling shall be devoted to the home occupation. Areas devoted to the home
occupation use shall maintain a residential appearance.
      4.   There shall be no employees other than members of the immediate
family residing in the dwelling unit where the home occupation is being
operated.
      5.   Deliveries and pick ups shall not block traffic circulation and
shall occur only between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00)
P.M. Monday through Saturday. No business shall be conducted which requires
delivery vehicles or other services not customary to a residence.
      6.   There shall be no external evidence of the activity such as outdoor
storage, displays, noise, dust, odors, fumes, vibration, electrical
interference or fluctuation, or other nuisances discernible beyond the property
lines.
      7.   No signs signifying the business or any commercial product or
service are allowed.
      8.   Customer/patron and shipping/receiving trip generation shall not
exceed five (5) trips a day. Exceptions to this shall be allowed for music and
swim lessons and home daycare providers, provided traffic does not disturb
residential tranquility.
      9.   No vehicle used in conjunction with the home occupation, with a
payload rating of more than one ton, shall be stored on the site. Outside
storage of heavy equipment or material shall be prohibited.
      10.   Any parking incidental to the home occupation shall be provided
only in the driveway and shall not create hazards or street congestion.
      11.   Storage of goods and materials necessary for the home occupation
shall not include flammable, combustible or explosive materials.
      12.   The home occupation does not use or create hazardous waste.
   B.   The following are some examples of uses, which would be acceptable as
home occupations, provided they comply with the above regulations:
      1.   Home offices, with no client visits to the home permitted.
      2.   Artists, sculptors, composers not selling their artistic product to
the public on the premises.
      3.   Craftwork, such as jewelry making, pottery, woodworking, and metal
working, with no sales permitted on the premises.
      4.   Music lessons, swim lessons, and tutoring, with not more than five
(5) persons at any one time.
      5.   Personal services such as catering and seamstress services.
      6.   Telephone answering, message services, word processing and other
computer applications.
      7.   Daycare, as specified in
chapters 5 and
6 of this title.
      8.   Door to door sales or party sales not on the premises.
   C.   A home occupation shall not include the following uses (this list is
not all inclusive):
      1.   Medical, dental, physical therapy or psychotherapy, real estate
offices, and insurance offices.
      2.   Motor vehicle repair, painting, storage, restoration or conversion,
engine repair or similar uses, except on a vehicle personally owned by the
resident.
      3.   Temporary or permanent motor vehicle display for purposes of sale or
lease.
      4.   Furniture refinishing.
      5.   Veterinarian office, animal grooming facilities, and animal care,
kennels or boarding facilities.
      6.   Machine shop.
      7.   Retail sales.
      8.   Beauty or barber shops.
      9.   Contractors' shops or storage yards.
      10.   Body piercing and/or painting and tattoos.
   D.   Complaints by citizens or local residents may be cause for immediate
termination of the home occupation use if appropriate measures cannot be
undertaken to mitigate the complaint or violations. All complaints or violation
of the above conditions shall be registered with, and reviewed by, the zoning
administrator. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-11-13: OUTDOOR STORAGE AND JUNK AUTOMOBILES:
   A.   With the exception of retail sales displays in an approved commercial
area, outdoor storage shall be screened from public view by a six foot (6')
high solid masonry fence or a view obscuring fence, with no storage visible
above the wall or fence. The presence of hazardous materials, not used on site
in association with the permitted business, is prohibited.
   B.   Storage of licensed motor homes, farm trailers, boats, travel trailers,
camping trailers, utility trailers, or other such trailers may be permitted in
any residential district, provided that the owner of the motor home, farm
trailer, boat, travel trailer, camping trailer, utility trailer, or other such
trailer resides on the property to which it is stored. Such vehicles if located
or stored outside of a garage, carport or barn, must be stored in the following
manner:
      1.   The vehicle/trailer shall be stored in the rear or side yard behind
the front line of the primary structure.
      2.   The vehicle/trailer shall not be located closer than five feet (5')
to any side or rear lot line.
      3.   In "Parker Central" the vehicle/trailer may be located along the
rear and one side lot line; provided at least one required side yard is left
unobstructed.
   C.   Placement in other than the rear or side yard for loading and unloading
purposes may be permitted for a period not to exceed seventy two (72) hours.
   D.   In all residential districts, junk automobiles shall be stored in a
completely enclosed building. In all other districts, the storage of junk
automobiles is prohibited, unless otherwise permitted and under the specific
conditions outlined within this title. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
   E.   The parking or storage of any commercial vehicle having a gross vehicle
weight rating (GVWR) exceeding twenty six thousand five hundred (26,500)
pounds, or a tractor, semitrailer, or bus is prohibited in any residential
district except in the RR-20 zoning district when in association with a farming
activity unless the owner or operator of such commercial vehicle has obtained a
permit from the town as provided in subsection F of this section. Parking and
storage of commercial vehicles may be allowed within the screened storage area
of an approved commercial or industrial use or where otherwise allowed and
under the specific conditions outlined in this title.
   F.   1. An application for a permit pursuant to subsection E of this section
shall be made on forms furnished by the town. The application shall include
such information as is required by the town including, without limitation, the
applicant's name, residence and signature, and shall be submitted to the Parker
police department. Each vehicle described in subsection E of this section shall
require a separate permit.
      2.   All such applications shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable permit
fee in the amount of twenty five dollars ($25.00).
      3.   Upon receipt of a completed application form and the required permit
fee, the police department shall issue a permit to the applicant on a form
prescribed by the town. Only residents of the town shall be issued a permit.
All permits shall be valid for the calendar year in which they were issued and
must be renewed in January of each subsequent year upon submission of a renewal
application on forms furnished by the town and payment of the required permit
fee.
      4.   Permittees shall be issued a decal which shall be displayed on each
permitted vehicle. Decals shall be color coded for the applicable year in which
they were issued.
      5.   No permit issued under the provisions of this subsection shall be in
any manner assignable or transferable to any other person, firm, company or
corporation other than is therein mentioned or named.
      6.   Permitted vehicles shall not be parked longer than fourteen (14)
consecutive days. Permittees who violate this subsection F6 are subject to
revocation of their permit in addition to other penalties imposed in this code.
      7.   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this
subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall
be punished by a fine of not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) nor more
than two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) or by imprisonment for a
period not to exceed six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
Each day that a violation continues shall be a separate offense punishable as
hereinabove described.
      8.   Violations of this subsection are in addition to any other violation
enumerated within this code and in no way limit the penalties, actions or
procedures which may be taken by the town for any violation of this subsection
which is also a violation of any other provision of this code or any other
applicable law. (Ord. 08-2007, 10-9-2007)
10-11-14: DUMPING AND DISPOSAL:
   A.   No person shall obstruct or reduce the capacity of any natural or
manmade waterway within the town by filling or dumping any earth, stone or
other materials therein.
   B.   The use of land for the storing, dumping, or disposal of scrap iron,
junk, garbage, rubbish or other refuse, ashes, landscape wastes, or industrial
wastes or byproducts shall be prohibited in every zoning district except as
specifically otherwise provided in this title. All stored, dumped or disposed
of above listed materials existing on a property at the time of the passage
hereof shall, within twelve (12) months of its passage, be made to comply fully
with these requirements and/or remove said materials from the property. (Ord.
03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-11-15: TEMPORARY EVENTS OR USES:
   A.   The provisions of this section do not apply to garage sales or rummage
sales. All other temporary carnivals, circuses, revivals, rodeos, swap meets,
seasonal or cultural activity, block parties, holiday boutiques, pumpkin and
Christmas tree lots, haunted houses or other community activity may be
permitted only in residential districts when utilizing a temple, mosque,
synagogue or church facility, in the PL zoning district with the appropriate
town approvals, or in the commercial districts.
   B.   All such temporary uses, except for church and/or school run charitable
functions or fundraising activities, shall be processed in accordance with
section
10-3-5 of this title. In addition, the applicant for a temporary event or use
may also have to comply with the provisions of this code.
   C.   Permanent structures shall not be permitted under a temporary use
permit. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-11-16: RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS:
   A.   Conditional Use Permit: Recreational vehicle (RV) parks shall be
allowed in the R-3 zoning district with a conditional use permit issued by the
town council in accordance with section
10-3-4 of this title.
   B.   Site Specifications: All RV parks shall provide adequate streets,
driveways, walkways, proper layout of park, proper sanitary facilities,
adequate fire protection, adequate water supply, and adequate protection of
surrounding properties. All RV parks shall comply with the following in
addition to other requirements of this title:
      1.   No manufactured homes or site built dwelling units shall be
permitted, except for that of the owner/manager and permanent maintenance
personnel.
      2.   RV parks shall not be used as permanent residences, except for that
of the owner/manager and permanent maintenance personnel. All recreational
vehicles within an RV park shall display current license plates/tags and shall
not be parked nor occupied for more than one hundred eighty (180) days per
calendar year.
      3.   No "park model" units shall be permitted within an RV park.
      4.   Recreational amenities such as swimming, shuffleboard, and tennis
and/or social centers, which may be used for dancing, crafts, hobbies, games,
meetings, banquets, and similar recreational uses, shall be developed and may
be of conventional construction.
      5.   There shall be a maximum density of twenty (20) spaces per net acre.
Each space shall be a minimum of one thousand two hundred fifty (1,250) square
feet and at least thirty feet (30') in width. There shall be a minimum of five
feet (5') between adjoining recreational vehicles, including all attached
awnings or shade canopies.
      6.   Each park must provide an adequate and easily identifiable office or
registration area. The location of the office shall not interfere with the
normal flow of traffic into and out of the RV park.
      7.   Each RV unit shall be equipped with wheels, which remain on the
unit; however, the wheels may be blocked for stability.
      8.   Each designated space in the park shall have a concrete slab for the
parking of the RV unit. There shall be no RV parking other than in a designated
space and on the concrete slab.
      9.   No permanent room addition shall be attached to the RV unit nor
shall the unit be attached to any permanent structure.
      10.   A minimum of one toilet, one sink, and one hot shower provided for
men, and one toilet, one sink, and one hot shower provided for women, each
designed for complete privacy, for each twenty (20) spaces, or fraction
thereof.
      11.   A common use laundry facility shall be provided at a ratio of one
washer and one dryer for each twenty (20) spaces, or fraction thereof.
      12.   At least one public telephone shall be provided.
      13.   Shall provide at least one approved disposal site/pumping station
for both water and sewer holding tanks for the RV units.
      14.   A decorative solid masonry perimeter wall shall be constructed
around the entire RV park.
      15.   Conversion of an established RV park, to another residential use,
shall be subject to approval as outlined in section
10-3-7 of this title and shall be limited to the number of dwelling units per
acre of the zoning district in which it is located, unless rezoned. (Ord. 03-
2005, 9-6-2005)
10-11-17: RECREATIONAL VEHICLE SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Conditional Use Permit: Recreational vehicle (RV) subdivisions shall be
allowed in the R-3 zoning district with a conditional use permit issued by the
town council in accordance with section
10-3-4 of this title.
   B.   Site Specifications: All RV subdivisions shall provide adequate
streets, walkways, proper layout of park, proper sanitary facilities, adequate
fire protection, adequate water supply, and adequate protection of surrounding
properties. All RV subdivisions shall comply with the following in addition to
other requirements of this title and the Parker subdivision ordinance:
      1.   No manufactured homes or site built dwelling units shall be
permitted except for that of the owner/manager, permanent maintenance personnel
and approved "park model" units.
      2.   RV subdivisions shall not be used as permanent residences except for
that of the owner/manager and permanent maintenance personnel. Maximum length
of stay in any RV subdivision shall be one hundred eighty (180) days per
calendar year.
      3.   A "park model" unit may be permitted in the RV subdivision year
round. All other types of RV units shall be restricted to a maximum length of
stay of one hundred eighty (180) days after which they shall be required to be
removed.
      4.   A recreational clubhouse or social center, as a commonly owned
amenity, shall be developed and may be of conventional construction.
      5.   There shall be a maximum density of twenty (20) lots per net acre.
Each lot shall be a minimum of one thousand two hundred fifty (1,250) square
feet and at least thirty feet (30') in width. There shall be a minimum
unobstructed side yard setback of five feet (5').
      6.   Each development must provide an adequate and easily identifiable
office or registration area. The location of the office shall not interfere
with the normal flow of traffic into and out of the RV subdivision.
      7.   Each RV unit shall be equipped with wheels, which remain on the
unit; however, the wheels may be blocked for stability.
      8.   Permanent porches/decks that the RV unit can pull up to and use may
be permitted, provided there is no more than one porch/deck per lot provided. A
small storage building, under one hundred twenty (120) square feet in size, may
be permitted for each lot.
      9.   Each lot shall have a concrete slab for the parking of the RV unit.
There shall be no RV parking other than on an individual lot and on the
concrete slab.
      10.   Each lot shall have water and sewer hookups per town approval.
      11.   A minimum of one toilet, one sink, and one hot shower provided for
men, and one toilet, one sink, and one hot shower provided for women, each
designed for complete privacy, for each twenty (20) lots, or fraction thereof.
      12.   A common use laundry facility shall be provided at a ratio of one
washer and one dryer for each twenty (20) lots, or fraction thereof.
      13.   At least one public telephone shall be provided.
      14.   A decorative solid masonry perimeter wall shall be constructed
around the entire RV subdivision.
      15.   Conversion of an established RV subdivision, to another residential
use, shall be subject to the provisions of the Parker subdivision ordinance,
approval as outlined in section
10-3-7 of this title, and shall be limited to the number of dwelling units per
acre of the zoning district in which it is located, unless rezoned. (Ord. 03-
2005, 9-6-2005)
10-11-18: MEDICAL MARIJUANA USES:
The following minimum requirements shall apply to all medical marijuana
dispensary and medical marijuana cultivation location uses permitted under
Arizona Revised Statutes section 36-2801 et seq. (the "act"), and subsections
10-7-2C and
10-8-2A of this title:
   A.   In addition to any other application requirements, an applicant for any
medical marijuana dispensary or medical marijuana cultivation location use
shall provide the following:
      1.   A notarized authorization, executed by the property owner,
acknowledging and consenting to the proposed use of the property as a medical
marijuana dispensary or a medical marijuana cultivation location.
      2.   The legal name of the medical marijuana dispensary or medical
marijuana cultivation location.
      3.   If the application is for a medical marijuana cultivation location,
the name and location of the medical marijuana dispensary with which it is
associated, and, in addition, in the case of designated caregivers or
qualifying patients, the names of qualifying patients for which the medical
marijuana is being cultivated.
      4.   The name, address and birth date of each officer and board member of
the nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary agent.
      5.   The name, address, birth date and valid registry identification card
number of: a) each medical marijuana dispensary agent if the application is
related to a medical marijuana dispensary or a related medical marijuana
cultivation location and b) each designated caregiver and qualifying patient if
the application is related to a medical marijuana cultivation location
associated with such qualifying patient and designated caregiver.
      6.   A copy of the operating procedures adopted in compliance with
Arizona Revised Statutes section 36-2804(B)(1)(c).
      7.   A notarized certification that none of the medical marijuana
dispensary officers or board members has been convicted of any of the following
offenses:
         a.   A violent crime, as defined in Arizona Revised Statutes section
13-901.03(B), that was classified as a felony in the jurisdiction where the
person was convicted.
         b.   A violation of state or federal controlled substance law that was
classified as a felony in the jurisdiction where the person was convicted
except an offense for which the sentence, including any term of probation,
incarceration or supervised release, was completed ten (10) or more years
earlier or an offense involving conduct that would be immune from arrest,
prosecution or penalty under Arizona Revised Statutes section 36-2811 except
that the conduct occurred before the effective date of that statute or was
prosecuted by an authority other than the state of Arizona.
      8.   A notarized certification that none of the medical marijuana
dispensary officers or board members has served as an officer or board member
for a medical marijuana dispensary that has had its registration certificate
revoked.
      9.   A floor plan showing the location, dimensions and type of security
measures demonstrating that the medical marijuana dispensary or medical
marijuana cultivation location will be secured, enclosed and locked as required
by law.
      10.   A scale drawing depicting the property lines and the separations
from the nearest property boundary of the parcel containing the medical
marijuana dispensary or medical marijuana cultivation location to the property
boundary of the parcel containing any existing uses listed in subsection C of
this section. If any of the uses are located within fifty feet (50') of the
minimum separation, the drawing, showing actual surveyed separations, shall be
prepared by a registered land surveyor.
   B.   A medical marijuana dispensary shall have operating hours not earlier
than nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and not later than five o'clock (5:00) P.M.,
Monday through Friday.
   C.   A medical marijuana dispensary for medical marijuana cultivation
location shall meet the following minimum separation requirements, measured in
a straight line from the closest boundary of the parcel containing the medical
marijuana dispensary or medical marijuana cultivation location to the closest
property boundary of the parcel containing any existing uses listed below:
      1.   2.5 miles from any other medical marijuana dispensary or medical
marijuana cultivation location.
      2.   Five hundred feet (500') from a residential substance abuse
diagnostic and treatment facility or other residential drug or alcohol
rehabilitation facility.
      3.   Five hundred feet (500') from a public, private, parochial, charter,
dramatic, dancing or music school, a learning center, or other similar school
or educational facility that caters to children.
      4.   Five hundred feet (500') from any residential zoning district or
residential use.
      5.   Five hundred feet (500') from a childcare center.
      6.   Five hundred feet (500') from a public library or public park.
      7.   Five hundred feet (500') from a religious institution.
   D.   Pursuant to the application requirements and provisions under Arizona
Revised Statutes sections 36-2804 and 2806, and except as provided under the
act for qualifying patients and designated caregivers, a medical marijuana
cultivation location may only cultivate, process, supply, sell or otherwise
provide medical marijuana to medical marijuana dispensaries located in Arizona,
and only one medical marijuana cultivation location shall be permitted for the
single Arizona medical marijuana dispensary with which it is associated.
   E.   The following size limitations shall apply to any medical marijuana
dispensary:
      1.   The total maximum floor area of a medical marijuana dispensary,
inclusive of any secure storage area, shall not exceed two thousand five
hundred (2,500) square feet.
      2.   The secure storage area for the medical marijuana stored at the
medical marijuana dispensary shall not exceed five hundred (500) square feet.
      3.   For a medical marijuana dispensary that also is a medical marijuana
cultivation location, the total maximum floor area that may also be used for
cultivation and incorporation or processing of the medical marijuana into
consumable or edible products inclusive of any secure storage area, shall not
exceed three thousand five hundred (3,500) square feet. The secure storage area
for the medical marijuana stored at a medical marijuana dispensary that also is
a cultivation location shall not exceed one thousand five hundred (1,500)
square feet.
   F.   The following size limitations shall apply to any medical marijuana
cultivation location that is not also a medical marijuana dispensary location:
      1.   The total maximum floor area of a medical marijuana cultivation
location inclusive of any secure storage area, shall not exceed three thousand
(3,000) square feet.
      2.   The secure storage area for the medical marijuana stored at the
medical marijuana cultivation location shall not exceed one thousand (1,000)
square feet.
   G.   A medical marijuana dispensary or medical marijuana cultivation
location shall:
      1.   Be located in a permanent building and may not be located in a
trailer, cargo container, mobile or modular unit, mobile home, recreational
vehicle or other mobile vehicle. The facility shall include fire protection
measures, including sprinklers, as required by the Parker fire code.
      2.   Install lighting to illuminate the exterior and interior of the
building and all entrances and exits to the facility. Exterior lighting shall
be five (5) foot-candles, measured at ground level, and shall remain on during
all hours between sunset and sunrise each day and the medical marijuana
dispensary or cultivation location shall illuminate all areas of the premises,
including adjacent public sidewalks so that the areas are readily visible by
law enforcement personnel. Twenty four (24) hours each day, the medical
marijuana dispensary or cultivation location shall illuminate the entire
interior of the building, with particular emphasis on the locations of any
counter, safe, storage area and any location where people are prone to
congregate. The lighting must be of sufficient brightness to ensure that the
interior is readily visible from the exterior of the building from a distance
of one hundred feet (100').
      3.   Not have a drive-through service.
      4.   Not emit dust, fumes, vapors or odors into the environment.
      5.   Not provide off site delivery of medical marijuana, except to a
medical marijuana dispensary served by the medical marijuana cultivation
location.
      6.   Have no on site sales of alcohol or tobacco, and no on site
consumption of food, alcohol, tobacco or medical marijuana.
      7.   Not have outdoor seating areas.
      8.   Display a current town of Parker business license, and a state of
Arizona tax identification letter.
      9.   Provide law enforcement and all interested neighbors with the name
and phone number of an on site community relations staff person to notify if
there are operational problems with the establishment.
      10.   On its exterior, be compatible with structures already constructed
or under construction within the immediate neighborhood, to ensure against
blight, deterioration, or substantial diminishment or impairment of property
values in the vicinity.
      11.   Give unrestricted access to town code enforcement officers, police
officers or other agents or employees of the town requesting admission for the
purpose of determining compliance with these standards.
      12.   Comply with all other applicable property development and design
standards of the town of Parker.
      13.   Provide security guards at the main entrances and exits during all
hours of operation. Detailed internal security measures will be identified and
maintained after consultation with the Parker police department. For the
purposes of this section, "security guard" shall mean licensed and duly insured
security personnel registered pursuant to Arizona Revised Statutes section 32-
2601 et seq. The medical marijuana dispensary or cultivation location operator
shall provide all property owners with a five hundred foot (500') radius of the
medical marijuana dispensary or cultivation location with written notification
via first class U.S. mail of the security company responsible for providing its
security services.
      14.   Provide, if determined necessary by the town manager at any time, a
neighborhood security guard patrol for a two (2) block radius surrounding the
medical marijuana dispensary or cultivation location during all or specified
hours of operation.
      15.   Not have any doctor or other person issue a written certification
on site for medical marijuana.
      16.   Only dispense medical marijuana to qualified patients and their
designated caregivers as defined in the act.
      17.   Notify patrons of the following verbally and through posting of a
sign in a conspicuous location at the medical marijuana dispensary:
         a.   Use of medical marijuana shall be limited to the patient
identified on the doctor's written certification. Secondary sale, barter or
distribution of medical marijuana is a crime and can lead to arrest.
         b.   Patrons must immediately leave the site and not consume medical
marijuana until at home or in an equivalent private location. Medical marijuana
dispensary staff shall monitor the site and vicinity to ensure compliance.
      18.   Not provide marijuana to any individual in an amount not consistent
with personal medical use, or in violation of state law and regulations related
to medical marijuana use.
      19.   Not store more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) in cash overnight
on the premises.
      20.   Require any qualifying patient under the age of eighteen (18) be
accompanied by a parent or legal guardian to enter the facility. Except for
such parent or legal guardian, no persons other than qualifying patients and
designated caregivers shall be permitted within a medical marijuana dispensary
premises.
      21.   Not have any sign, advertising, or any other advertising matter
used in connection with the medical marijuana dispensary or cultivation
location be of any offensive nature and shall in no way be contrary to this
code, or obstruct the view of the interior of the premises viewed from the
outside. (Ord. 04-2011b, 5-17-2011)
CHAPTER 12
LANDSCAPE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-12-1: Purpose
10-12-2: Plant Specifications
10-12-3: Landscape Requirements For Specific Land Uses
10-12-4: Landscape Requirements For Specific Roadways
10-12-5: Landscape Plan Submittal Requirements
10-12-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish landscape standards applicable to
all zoning districts. The standards and regulations set forth in this chapter
shall qualify or supplement, as the case may be, the district regulations set
forth elsewhere in this title. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-12-2: PLANT SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Trees: Where required by this title, trees shall be a minimum of
fifteen (15) gallon size with forty percent (40%) of the required number of
trees to be specimen trees of twenty four inch (24") box size or larger.
   B.   Shrubs: Where required by this title, shrubs shall be a minimum of one
gallon size upon installation with fifty percent (50%) of the required number
to be five (5) gallon in size. The use of cactus and/or succulents may be
substituted for up to fifty percent (50%) of the required shrubs.
   C.   Organic Ground Covers: Where required by this title, organic ground
covers shall be a minimum of one gallon size upon installation.
   D.   Inorganic Ground Covers: Where required by this title, inorganic ground
covers shall be used and consist of decomposed granite (minimum size 1/2 inch
minus) or turf in selected areas may also be considered. A drip irrigation
system shall be installed by approved standards.
   E.   Prohibited Trees: The use of fruit producing species of olive and
mulberry trees shall be prohibited.
   F.   Required Plant Species: Low water use drought tolerant plant species,
as listed on the Arizona state drought tolerant plant list and in section
10-18-2, appendix B of this title, shall be required. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-12-3: LANDSCAPE REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIFIC LAND USES:
   A.   Single Residence Developments:
      1.   Required landscaping for a subdivision development shall include the
required open space area, retention or detention basins, and the adjacent
public right of way.
      2.   The required landscaping for a subdivision development shall be
installed in proportion to the construction phasing of the project and in
accordance with the approved subdivision landscape plan.
      3.   The front yard landscaping for a single residence lot or dwelling is
required to be installed at the time and as a part of the home construction and
shall, at a minimum, consist of organic and/or inorganic ground cover. The
front yard landscaping is in addition to the local and neighborhood street
right of way landscaping required in subsection 10-12-4B of this chapter.
   B.   Multiple Residence Developments:
      1.   The required landscaping for a development shall include the
required common area and open space area, retention or detention basins,
parking area and the adjacent public right of way as required in section
10-12-4 of this chapter. Installation of the required landscaping shall be in
accordance with the approved landscape plan for the development. Any part of
the lot or parcel not developed for buildings, structures, vehicular access,
streets, parking and utility areas shall be landscaped.
      2.   All developments zoned for multiple residence (attached product,
townhouse, condominium, apartments, etc.) shall provide a minimum of one tree
and two (2) shrubs, per dwelling unit, in the common or open space areas. This
landscape shall be in addition to any other landscape requirements of this
title or the subdivision ordinance.
      3.   The required rear and side yards shall contain a continuous,
landscaped buffer area having a minimum width of ten feet (10') and containing
a minimum of one tree and two (2) shrubs every twenty five feet (25'), or
portion thereof, to provide visual screening between adjacent uses.
      4.   All R-2 zoned developments that abut a single residence zoned
property shall provide and maintain a landscaped buffer area, a minimum width
of ten feet (10'), along the common property line. This landscaped area shall
contain a minimum of one tree and two (2) shrubs every twenty five feet (25'),
or portion thereof.
      5.   All R-3 and R-4 zoned property that abuts a single residence zoned
property or an R-2 zoned property shall provide and maintain a landscaped
buffer area, a minimum width of fifteen feet (15'), along the common property
line. This buffer strip shall contain a minimum of one tree and three (3)
shrubs every twenty feet (20'), or portion thereof.
      6.   A homeowners' or property owners' association shall maintain all
landscape materials and landscaped areas, including that within the public
rights of way adjacent to the site, in accordance with the approved landscape
plan.
      7.   Vegetative screening may be used rather than the use of a perimeter
wall when adjacent to any single residence zoning district. If a perimeter wall
is constructed it shall be a maximum of six feet (6') in height and
decoratively treated on all sides to match the architectural style and design
of the development.
      8.   Vehicular parking areas adjacent to the right of way shall be
screened to a height of at least three feet (3') by either a solid decorative
masonry wall or a landscaped berm, or a combination thereof. The slope of any
berm shall not exceed a ratio of one to two (1:2) and shall be landscaped with
ground cover to prevent soil erosion. All landscape areas adjacent to the
vehicular parking and access areas shall be protected by a permanent vertical
barrier or containment, in order to minimize damage by vehicular traffic.
   C.   Commercial And Industrial Developments:
      1.   The required landscaping for an individual site or development shall
include the required open space area, retention or detention basins, parking
area and the adjacent public right of way as required in section
10-12-4B of this chapter. Installation of the required landscaping shall be in
accordance with the approved landscape plan for the individual site or
development and the other provisions of this title and the subdivision
ordinance. Any part of the lot area not developed for buildings, structures,
approved storage, loading and vehicular access, streets, parking and utility
areas shall be landscaped.
      2.   All OT and C-1 zoned commercial developments that abut a
residentially zoned property shall provide and maintain a landscaped buffer
area, a minimum width of ten feet (10'), along the common property line. This
landscaped area shall contain a minimum of one tree and two (2) shrubs every
twenty five feet (25'), or portion thereof. The front yard landscaping is in
addition to the local and neighborhood street right of way landscaping required
in subsection 10-12-4B of this chapter.
      3.   All C-2 zoned commercial and I-1 and I-2 zoned industrial
developments that abut a residentially zoned property shall provide and
maintain a landscaped buffer area, a minimum width of twenty feet (20'), along
the common property line. This landscaped area shall contain a minimum of one
tree and three (3) shrubs every twenty five feet (25'), or portion thereof.
This landscape area shall not be used for parking, maneuvering or storage.
      4.   Dense landscaping, combined with architectural treatments, shall be
provided to screen unattractive views and features such as storage areas, trash
enclosures, railroad sidings and yards, transformers, generators, heavy
mechanical equipment and other similar eyesores.
      5.   Vehicular parking areas adjacent to the right of way shall be
screened to a height of at least three feet (3') by either a solid decorative
masonry wall or a landscaped berm, or a combination thereof. The slope of any
berm shall not exceed a ratio of one to two (1:2) and shall be landscaped with
ground cover to prevent soil erosion. All landscape areas adjacent to the
vehicular parking and access areas shall be protected by a permanent vertical
barrier or containment, in order to minimize damage by vehicular traffic. (Ord.
03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-12-4: LANDSCAPE REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIFIC ROADWAYS:
   A.   Arterial And Major Collector Streets:
      1.   Any lot, parcel or development, or portion thereof, that is adjacent
to an arterial or major collector street, as classified in the Parker general
plan, shall be required to landscape the undeveloped portion of the right of
way, in addition to the on site landscaping that is required by this title. The
right of way landscaping shall be planted in a formal linear pattern creating a
tree lined street and shall, at a minimum, consist of one specimen tree and
three (3) shrubs planted every forty feet (40'), or fraction thereof, exclusive
of that portion of the public rights of way occupied by a driveway area.
Additional streetscape such as, but not limited to, benches, school bus stops,
trash containers, pedestrian paths and bike trails may be required.
      2.   Individual property owners and/or homeowners' associations shall
properly maintain all landscape materials and landscaped areas, including that
within the public rights of way adjacent to their property or the development,
in accordance with the approved landscape plan, except in and along public
rights of way and easements where the town of Parker has agreed to provide
maintenance.
      3.   Replacement of dead street trees shall be by the individual property
owners or the homeowners' association and shall be completed within six (6)
months from the date that the association or property owner is notified by the
town.
   B.   Local And Neighborhood Streets:
      1.   All residential lots, parcels or developments (single residence and
multiple residence) shall provide, at a minimum, two (2) canopy type shade
trees of fifteen (15) gallon size or greater, to be planted in each front yard
either within a landscape easement at the back of the sidewalk or within the
right of way between the back of curb and the sidewalk, if such a separation
exists, except for properties zoned R1-7 that are located within the area
denoted/designated as "Parker Central".
      2.   All commercial and industrial lots, parcels or developments shall
provide, at a minimum, one specimen tree and three (3) shrubs to be planted in
the adjacent public right of way every thirty feet (30'), or fraction thereof,
exclusive of that portion of the public rights of way occupied by a driveway
area. The right of way landscaping shall be planted in a formal linear pattern
creating a tree lined street.
      3.   Individual property owners and/or homeowners' associations shall
properly maintain all landscape materials and landscaped areas, including that
within the public rights of way adjacent to their property or the development,
in accordance with the approved landscape plan, except in and along public
rights of way and easements where the town of Parker has agreed to provide
maintenance. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-12-5: LANDSCAPE PLAN SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Any proposed building, building additions, or use of land shall require
a site plan to be submitted to the city for review and approval. The site plan
shall include information on the required landscaping in compliance with this
title and the subdivision ordinance. The landscape information may be submitted
as a separate landscape plan and shall be prepared by an Arizona registered
landscape architect or an Arizona certified nurseryman. The landscape plans
shall be submitted at the time of application for rezoning or conditional use
permit or at the time of building permit issuance if none of the above
applications are required and shall, at a minimum, contain the following:
      1.   Irrigation plans.
      2.   Call out the location of all existing and proposed species and
inorganic ground covers, sidewalks, paths, curbing, fencing, walls, benches,
ramadas, fountains, and waterways. Notations should be made concerning any
existing trees that will be removed. For fencing and walls, provide a graphic
representation as to what is intended relative to the fencing and wall theme.
      3.   Right of way landscaping is required. The entire area of the right
of way, between street property line and back of curb (BOC) and/or pavement,
except for approved driveways, walkways and bike paths, shall be landscaped.
      4.   Include a plant palette, in list form, on the landscape plans that
call out all proposed plant species and inorganic ground covers.
      5.   Call out the specific sizes of all proposed plant and inorganic
ground covers. This information shall be included within the plant palette list
on the landscape plan.
      6.   Call out the exact quantities for each species of tree, shrub and
ground cover per each size and species. This information shall be included
within the plant palette list on the landscape plan.
      7.   Indicate the location of any proposed path, trail, or sidewalk on
the landscape plan. Call out the material type and width of the surfacing of
all proposed paths, trails and walks.
      8.   Call out the type and location of proposed walls/fencing, if
applicable. Indicate exact material types for all fencing and walls proposed. A
separate twenty four inch by thirty six inch (24" x 36") wall/fence sheet may
be required to be submitted.
      9.   Indicate the location of any proposed signs or freestanding monument
signs to be located within the landscape area.
      10.   Identify existing lots, streets, fences, walls, wells, or other
features as may be applicable.
      11.   Identify the line of sight requirements of the town, county and
state.
      12.   Identify the name of the developer, project engineer, and landscape
architect/designer on the plan.
   B.   All site plans and/or landscape plans submitted shall be reviewed and
approved by the town prior to the issuance of a building permit. (Ord. 03-2005,
9-6-2005)
CHAPTER 13
PARKING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-13-1: Purpose
10-13-2: General Regulations
10-13-3: Improvements
10-13-4: Required Parking Spaces By Type Of Use
10-13-5: Parking Space/Maneuvering Dimensions
10-13-6: Parking Lot Landscape Requirements
10-13-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish minimum standards for the
provisions of adequate off street parking, loading and maneuvering spaces for
the uses permitted by this title in a manner that is safe, efficient,
convenient and visually attractive. These regulations shall apply to new
construction and expansion of or changes to existing uses permitted by this
title. The regulations set forth in this chapter shall supplement the district
regulations set forth elsewhere in this title. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-13-2: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   All required parking and loading spaces and maneuvering areas shall be
provided on the same parcel or lot as the principal structure wherever
possible. A contiguous lot may be used for parking purposes, provided: 1) it is
incorporated into the development site for the exclusive use of providing the
required parking; and 2) the use of such lot for parking purposes is provided
for in perpetuity.
   B.   All vehicular egress from parking lots to public rights of way shall be
by forward motion only, except in the case of a single residence fronting on a
local street.
   C.   Parking spaces for commercial and industrial uses shall not be located
in the front yard setback or a side yard setback when adjacent to a residential
zoning district.
   D.   No part of any vehicle may overhang into a public sidewalk or within
five feet (5') of a street curb where no sidewalk exists.
   E.   Tandem arrangement of required parking spaces is prohibited.
   F.   The parking, keeping, or storage of commercial rated vehicles in a
residential zoning district is prohibited with the exception of recreational
vehicles as outlined in chapter 11 of this title. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-13-3: IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Required parking spaces, loading spaces, maneuvering areas, driveways,
and fire lanes shall be paved with asphalt, concrete, paving stones, or a
similar material approved by the town to a sufficient thickness to withstand
repeated vehicular traffic, except in the single residence zoning districts of
RR-20 and RR-2.5.
   B.   All required off street parking spaces shall be connected with a public
street by a paved driveway, of not less than twenty feet (20') in length,
within the property line, except in the single residence zoning districts of
RR-20 and RR-2.5. All parking spaces for multiple residence, commercial and
industrial parking lots shall be marked by a four inch (4") wide traffic paint
stripe.
   C.   All off street parking lots shall be screened from street view and
landscaped in accordance with the regulations of this chapter and those
regulations for the specific zoning district or land use found elsewhere in
this title.
   D.   A six inch (6") vertical separation method, such as, but not limited
to, a concrete curb, shall be required between any parking area and landscape
area to protect the landscaped area and control vehicular circulation. (Ord.
03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-13-4: REQUIRED PARKING SPACES BY TYPE OF USE:
   A.   The number of parking spaces required to be provided for uses permitted
in this title are specified in table 6 of this section.
   B.   In calculating the total number of required off street parking spaces,
fractional amounts shall be rounded up to the nearest whole number if the
fraction is 0.5 or greater.
   C.   The number of parking spaces required for uses not listed shall be
determined by the zoning administrator and approved through the site plan
process.
   D.   In the case of mixed uses, the total requirement for off street parking
spaces shall be the sum of the various uses computed separately. Cumulative
parking space requirements for mixed use occupancies may be reduced by the
zoning administrator if it is determined that peak requirements of the mixed
use occupancies occur at different times.
   TABLE 6
   REQUIRED PARKING SPACES
Land Uses Required Vehicle Parking
Land Uses                                 Required Vehicle Parking
Residential Uses:                          
 Single residence, detached dwellings    2 spaces/dwelling
 Multiple residence:                      
    Efficiency                            1 space/unit plus*
    1 bedroom units                       1.5 spaces/unit plus*
    2 bedroom units and larger            2 spaces/unit plus*
    Townhomes and condominiums            2 spaces/unit plus*
                                          * 1 visitor space per 10 units must
                                          be provided. At least 1 parking space
                                         per multiple residence unit must be a
                                          covered parking space and assigned to
                                          a specific unit.
Institutional Uses:                        
 Churches:                                
    Main assembly (fixed seating)         1 space/4 seats
    Main assembly (without fixed seating) 1 space/100 square feet of GFA
    Classrooms and other buildings        1 space/300 square feet of GFA
 Hospitals                               1 space/400 square feet of GFA
 Elementary schools and junior high      1 space/classroom, plus 1 space/600
  schools                                 square feet GFA
 High schools, trade schools and         1 space/each employee, plus 1 space/
  colleges                                300 square feet GFA
Commercial Uses:                           
 Commercial amusement - outdoors:         
    Golf courses                          4 spaces/hole, plus 1 space/200
                                          square feet GFA clubhouse
    Driving ranges                        1 space/each tee space
    Miniature golf courses, batting       1 space/500 square feet of outdoor
    cages, amusement parks, water slides  recreational area, plus ancillary
                                          indoor uses
 Commercial amusement - indoors:          
    Amusement center/arcades              1 space/100 square feet GFA
    Skating rinks                         1 space/100 square feet GFA
    Dance clubs                           1 space/100 square feet GFA
    Theaters                              1 space/6 seats
    Bowling alleys                        4 spaces/lane
    Billiard hall                         2 spaces/table
 Parks (public or private)               30 spaces/athletic field
                                          1 bicycle/10 vehicle spaces
                                          35 spaces/athletic field
  Parks (public or private) without       6 spaces/volleyball court
 adjoining accessible parking lots       6 spaces/basketball court
                                          2 spaces/tennis court
                                          1 bicycle/10 vehicle spaces
 Health clubs, gymnasiums                1 space/100 square feet GFA
 Medical and dental offices, clinics     1 space/200 square feet GFA, plus 1
                                          space/2 employees
 General, professional and civic offices 1 space/300 square feet GFA
 Retail sales, personal services, banks, 1 space/300 square feet GFA
  and grocery stores
 Hotels, motels, and bed and breakfast   1 space/room, plus ancillary use
                                          requirements
 Restaurants, bars and cocktail lounges  1 space/75 square feet GFA and
                                          outdoor seating area
 Restaurants with drive-through          1 space/100 square feet GFA
  facilities
 Mortuary/funeral home                   1 space/75 square feet GFA used for
                                          public assembly
 General auto repair, car wash, service  1 space/375 square feet GFA, plus 1
  station, lube shops                     space/employee
 Outdoor sales:                           
  Plant nursery, building supplies, RV  1 space/375 square feet GFA display,
    and boat sales, and automobile sales  plus 1 space/employee
  Swap meet, farmers market             1 space/100 square feet GFA sales
                                          area
Industrial Uses:                           
 Manufacturing, assembly, production     1 space/600 square feet GFA
 Wholesale sales, warehouse and freight  1 space/900 square feet GFA
  movement
 Waste related uses                      1 space/employee
 Miniwarehouse/self-storage facility     4 spaces, plus 2 spaces for manager's
                                          quarter
 
(Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-13-5: PARKING SPACE/MANEUVERING DIMENSIONS:
   A.   Standard Parking: The standard parking space shall be a minimum of ten
feet (10') wide by nineteen feet (19') long unless specified otherwise by this
title.
   B.   Disabled Parking: All off street parking areas, other than for single
residence uses, shall include reserved spaces for use by disabled persons.
Disabled parking, which shall be subject to Arizona Revised Statutes section
28-882 et seq., shall be provided at a rate in compliance with the building
code of the town of Parker. Minimum dimension standards for disabled parking
shall be as follows:
      1.   Single space: Sixteen feet (16') wide by twenty feet (20') long. The
space shall be prominently striped at eleven feet (11') width of space, plus a
five foot (5') access aisle.
      2.   Double space: Twenty seven feet (27') wide by twenty feet (20')
long. The space shall be striped at eleven feet (11') width of each space, plus
a five foot (5') access aisle between the spaces.
   C.   Large Vehicle Parking: Certain uses may be required to install large
vehicle parking spaces for commercial trucks, boats and recreational vehicles.
Minimum dimension standards for large vehicle spaces shall be twelve feet (12')
wide by forty five feet (45') long. Said spaces shall be clearly marked for
customer use.
   D.   Parallel Parking: A parallel parking space shall be a minimum of nine
feet (9') wide by twenty two feet (22') long unless specified otherwise by this
title.
   E.   Motorcycle Parking: The standard parking space shall be a minimum of
five feet (5') wide by nine feet (9') long and perpendicular to the street or
drive aisle.
   F.   Loading Space: There shall be provided on the same lot with each
commercial building and industrial building or structure adequate space for off
street loading, unloading and the maneuvering of commercial vehicles. There
shall be no loading or unloading of commercial vehicles on the public street.
Off street maneuvering space shall be provided so that no backing onto or from
a public street is required. The loading space shall be a minimum of twelve
feet (12') wide by forty five feet (45') long and a minimum of fourteen feet
(14') in height.
   G.   Driveway And Aisle Dimensions: Every parking facility shall be provided
with one or more access driveways. The minimum dimensional standards for
driveways shall be as follows:
      1.   Commercial: The minimum width for one-way enter/exit and aisle shall
be twelve feet (12'). The minimum width for two-way enter/exit and aisle shall
be twenty four feet (24'). Additional aisle width may be required depending
upon the angle degree of the parking stalls.
      2.   Industrial: The minimum width for one-way enter/exit and aisle shall
be sixteen feet (16'). The minimum width for two-way enter/exit and aisle shall
be thirty two feet (32').
   H.   Loading Docks, Service Bays, Service Windows: Loading docks, service
bays, or service windows shall not front onto an arterial or collector roadway.
   I.   Differentiation Of Customer Parking Types: Applicants shall be required
to differentiate on applications the different type of customer parking
provided.
   J.   Permanent Markings: Required parking spaces shall be permanently
marked. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-13-6: PARKING LOT LANDSCAPE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Amount Required: In parking lots, at least ten percent (10%) of the
interior parking area shall be landscaped, exclusive of perimeter landscaping
and frontage landscaping. For every eight (8) required parking spaces, or
portion thereof, a minimum of one tree and two (2) shrubs shall be provided
within the interior of the parking area. Trees located in the interior of the
parking area shall have a clear trunk of at least five feet (5') and shrubs
located in the interior of the parking area a maximum height of three feet (3')
for adequate visibility.
   B.   Location: Landscape areas shall be located and designed in such a
manner as to break up the expanse of the parking area, better define parking
circulation, and provide shade and comfort. The required landscaping shall be
located in protected areas, such as along walkways, in centrally located
protected islands, at the ends of parking aisles, or between parking spaces.
Landscape areas should contain a minimum of twenty five (25) square feet and
should have a minimum width of five feet (5').
   C.   Irrigation Of Parking Lot Landscaping: All right of way street
frontage, perimeter and interior parking area landscaping shall be provided
with a pressurized, underground irrigation system.
   D.   Maintenance Of Landscaping: The maintenance of all required
landscaping, whether located on the property or within the adjoining right of
way frontage, shall be the responsibility of the property owner. (Ord. 03-2005,
9-6-2005)
CHAPTER 14
OUTDOOR LIGHTING
SECTION:
10-14-1: Purpose And Intent
10-14-2: Conformance With Applicable Codes
10-14-3: Definitions
10-14-4: General Requirements
10-14-5: Design Standards
10-14-6: Prohibitions
10-14-7: Exemptions
10-14-8: Procedures For Compliance
10-14-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to require the protection of our dark
skies. It establishes procedures and standards that minimize light pollution,
reduce glare and light trespass, and conserve energy and resources by
controlling the artificial illuminating devices emitting rays into the night
sky which have a detrimental effect on the rural atmosphere, astronomical
observations, or which would otherwise be offensive to neighboring and nearby
properties.
   B.   The intent of these lighting requirements is to preserve the low light
level conditions that are inherently characteristic of the rural lifestyle. The
objective is to allow only the quantity and level of lighting necessary for
safety, security and the enjoyment of outdoor living while protecting against
direct glare and excessive lighting, protecting the ability to view the night
sky, and preventing light trespass. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-14-2: CONFORMANCE WITH APPLICABLE CODES:
   A.   All outdoor artificial illuminating devices (luminaires) shall be
installed and utilized in conformance with the provisions of this chapter, and
all other ordinances or building codes of the town of Parker. The town of
Parker shall be considered to be an environmental zone E1 as defined by the CIE
and the IESNA.
   B.   Where any provisions of the Arizona state statutes, or any federal law,
or any companion ordinance conflicts with the requirements of these outdoor
lighting provisions the most restrictive shall govern.
   C.   The provisions of this chapter are not intended to promote the use of
any one light source, material, or method of installation. This chapter does,
however, prohibit certain light sources. The town may consider any state of the
art technology, which is consistent with the intent of this title, as new
lighting technology develops which is useful in reducing light above the
horizontal plane. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-14-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter the following terms shall have the following
definitions:
CIE: Commission Internationale de l-Éclairage.
EYE ILLUMINANCE: The illuminance level (lux/foot-candle) measured at the eye in
a plane perpendicular to the line of sight when measured from a point sixty six
inches (66") above grade.
FOOT-CANDLE (fc): A unit of illuminance of equal to 1 lm/ft2 (lumen/square
foot) or 10.76 lx (lux).
FOSSIL FUEL LIGHT: Light produced directly or indirectly by the combustion of
natural gas or other utility type fossil fuels.
FULLY SHIELDED (FULL CUTOFF): A fixture shielded with an opaque material so
that light rays emitted by the fixture, either directly from the lamp or
indirectly from the fixture, are projected only below a horizontal plane
running through the lowest point on the fixture where light is emitted.
IESNA: Illuminating Engineering Society of North America.
INSTALLED: The initial installation of outdoor light fixtures, defined herein,
on or after the effective date of this chapter.
LUMENS: The standard international (SI) unit of luminous flux.
LUMINAIRE (LIGHT FIXTURE): A complete lighting unit consisting of a lamp or
lamps and ballast(s) (when applicable) together with the parts designed to
distribute the light, position and protect the lamps, to connect the lamps to
the power supply for:
   A.   Buildings, structures, and architectural features.
   B.   Recreational areas.
   C.   Parking lot lighting.
   D.   Landscape lighting.
   E.   Signage (advertising or others).
   F.   Street lighting.
   G.   Building overhangs and open canopies.
   H.   Product display area lighting.
   I.   Walkways.
   J.   Horse arenas, corrals and animal containment areas.
OPAQUE: Impervious to the passage of light and not reflecting light.
PARTIALLY SHIELDED (PARTIAL CUTOFF): A fixture that allows light rays to be
emitted up and down and shielded with an opaque material in such a manner to
prevent the bulb from being seen.
SAFETY LIGHTING: Low level lighting used to illuminate vehicular and pedestrian
circulation.
SECURITY LIGHTING: Lighting that is fully shielded that is intended to provide
bright illumination during emergency situations only.
SPILL LIGHT: The amount of light that illuminates beyond the range or primary
area that the fixture is intended to light.
TRANSLUCENT: Admitting and diffusing light so that objects and the light source
beyond cannot be clearly perceived.
TRESPASS LIGHTING: Spill light that encroaches onto neighboring properties.
VISUAL ENJOYMENT LIGHTING: Lighting intended to illuminate outdoor living
areas. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-14-4: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Shielding: All outdoor light fixtures, except those exempt from this
chapter, shall be fully shielded as required in
table 7 of this section. Light sources that must be shielded shall be shielded
in a manner that the bulb or light source from the fixture is not visible from
an adjoining property or from the street view when viewed horizontally to the
fixture.
   B.   Building And Structures: All lighting fixtures for buildings,
structures and canopies shall adhere to the following requirements:
      1.   All building mounted light fixtures shall be fully shielded, except
residential dwellings may install partially shielded light fixtures such as
sconces but only at the garage and primary entryway. The application of
lighting to architectural features, such as, but not limited to, building
facade lighting, shall be minimized with all light directed downward away from
adjacent lots, streets, and open spaces.
      2.   Exterior fixtures shall be mounted in or on a building wall not to
exceed eight feet (8') above finished grade and shielded in such a manner as to
avoid creating concentrated light (hot spots) on the structures to which they
are mounted.
      3.   In commercial districts, within a fifteen foot (15') radius of the
entry door, there shall be some type of lighting to distinguish the building
entrance.
      4.   Overhead lighting used to light building overhangs and open canopies
shall be fully recessed within the overhang or canopy. The maximum lighting
intensity (eye illumination levels) under the canopy shall be no greater than
2.0 lux (0.2 fc) when measured directly under the overhang or canopy or greater
than 1.0 lux (0.10 fc) when measured at the property line.
   C.   Security Lighting: If elected, security lighting may be permitted
provided the following:
      1.   In residential zoning districts, building or wall mounted fixtures
are fully shielded and shall not exceed a mounting height of ten feet (10').
Within the commercial and industrial zoning districts, building or wall mounted
fixtures are fully shielded and shall not exceed a mounting height of twelve
feet (12') or a height equal to one-third (1/3) the height of the building wall
on which they are mounted, whichever is greater, except that a fully shielded
light fixture may be mounted above a bay door. The maximum height of lighting
standards (poles) used for security purposes, excluding parking lot lighting,
shall be twelve feet (12').
      2.   Motion sensor/detector light fixtures that are fully shielded are
the preferred type for security lighting.
      3.   In residential zoning districts security lighting must be controlled
separately from all other lighting with the security lights being on timers
that regulate their operation time to a maximum of ten (10) minutes and limited
to lamps with a maximum of seven hundred fifty (750) lumens.
   D.   Parking Area Lighting: The town requires the lighting of designated
parking areas. The use of short bollard style shielded light fixtures may be
considered in lieu of overhead lighting for parking lot lighting in residential
neighborhoods or residentially zoned property. Parking lot lighting
requirements shall be as follows:
      1.   Within the commercial and industrial zoning districts the maximum
lighting intensity (eye illumination levels) of the parking areas shall be 2.0
lux (0.20 fc), as measured within the designated parking area and at the
property line. However, if the commercial or industrial zoning district abuts a
residential zoning district the maximum lighting intensity (eye illumination
levels) in the parking area shall be 1.0 lux (0.10 fc) measured at the property
line.
      2.   Within the C-2 commercial and the I-1 and I-2 industrial zoning
districts the maximum height of parking area lighting standards (poles) shall
be twenty feet (20') within the interior of the parking area and sixteen feet
(16') at or along the perimeter of the parking area. Within the OT and C-
1 zoning districts, or if the parking area abuts a residential zoning district,
the maximum height of the lighting standards (poles) shall be sixteen feet
(16') within the interior of the parking area and twelve feet (12') at or along
the perimeter of the parking area.
      3.   All parking area lighting, serving commercial businesses, shall be
turned off one-half (1/2) hour after the close of the business that the parking
area serves or as required for the safety of the employees leaving the
business.
      4.   Within the multiple residence zoning districts, lighting standards
(poles) within the parking areas shall be limited to a maximum height of twelve
feet (12'). Motion sensor/detector light fixtures are encouraged to be placed
under the parking shade canopy to provide both security and parking area
lighting.
   E.   Outdoor Signage: All exterior lighting fixtures used to externally
illuminate an outdoor advertising sign shall be mounted on the top of the sign
structure, shall be fully shielded and directed downward.
   F.   Light Trespass: All outdoor light fixtures shall be directed downward
and shall be fully shielded. Outdoor light fixtures shall be directed away from
any residential property and shall not detract from driver visibility on
adjacent streets. Spill light from any fixture shall be minimized and shall not
spill beyond the property line on which the fixture is located.
   G.   Preferred Light Source: Low pressure sodium lamps are the preferred
light source for minimizing adverse effects on astronomical observations.
However, other light sources as outlined in
table 7 of this section are permitted.
   H.   Ambient And Landscape Lighting: If desired, ambience lighting may be
permitted provided the following:
      1.   Short bollard style partially shielded light fixtures or low wattage
string lighting of specimen trees is preferred to that of building mounted
lighting.
      2.   The maximum lighting intensity (eye illumination levels) of ambience
lighting should not exceed 0.5 lux (0.05 fc).
      3.   All outdoor ambience lighting fixtures shall be turned off one-half
(1/2) hour after the close of the business or as required for the safety of the
employees leaving the business.
   I.   Recreational Facilities:
      1.   Lighting of outdoor recreational facilities, public or private,
shall be turned off one-half (1/2) hour after the conclusion of the
recreational or sporting event or as required for the safety of the employees
leaving the facility and shall comply fully with all regulations of this
chapter.
   TABLE 7
   REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIELDING
Fixture Lamp Type Shielding5 / Filtering1
Fixture Lamp Type                      Shielding5 / Filtering1
Low pressure sodium2                   Partially  / None
High pressure sodium                   Fully      / None
Metal halide/warm halide7              Fully1,7   / Yes1
Fluorescent                            Fully3     / Yes3
Quartz4                                Fully      / None
Incandescent, greater than 75 watts    Fully      / None
Incandescent, 75 watts or less         Partially  / None
Fossil fuel                            None       / None
Glass tubes filled with neon, argon,  None       / None
krypton6
Other lamp types                       As approved by the town of Parker
 
   Notes:
      1.   "Filtered" means a light fixture that has glass, acrylic, or
translucent enclosures of the light source satisfy these filter requirements
(quartz glass does not meet this requirement).
      2.   This is a preferable lamp type to minimize undesirable light into
the night sky affecting astronomical observations.
      3.   Warm, white and natural lamps are preferred to minimize detrimental
effects.
      4.   For the purpose of this title, quartz lamps (quartz halogens) shall
not be considered an incandescent light source.
      5.   Or current IESNA guidelines, whichever is more restrictive.
      6.   Permitted only in commercial zoning districts; prohibited in all
residential zones.
      7.   Metal halide lighting used for display purposes shall not be used
for security lighting after 11:00 P.M. Metal halide lamps shall be installed
only in enclosed luminaires.
(Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-14-5: DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   All light fixtures shall be "fully shielded" fixtures that keep light
from going uselessly up or sideways (greater than 90 degrees) becoming nuisance
lighting to neighbor, creating "hot spots" on the structures to which they are
mounted, and light pollution to the neighborhood and community. Recessed lights
in exterior soffits, eaves, or ceilings shall have a forty five degree (45°)
cutoff.
   B.   Fixtures shall be directed downward and properly aimed on the targeted
areas to maximize their effectiveness and minimize the total number of lighting
fixtures.
   C.   The following illustrations exemplify the more basic styles of lighting
fixtures and are for illustrative purposes only. Fixtures and/or fixtures
similar to those labeled as prohibited are prohibited by this title.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/aafe5f4495f34483a0a5aa27eb6ffd889002f0d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1042.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/aafe5f4495f34483a0a5aa27eb6ffd889002f0d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1044.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/aafe5f4495f34483a0a5aa27eb6ffd889002f0d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1046.gif]
 
(Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-14-6: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Searchlights: The operation of searchlights for advertising purposes is
prohibited.
   B.   Light Standards (Poles): The installation of poles over twenty feet
(20') in height and/or having more than two (2) light fixtures per pole, except
for recreational fields.
   C.   Mercury Vapor And Quartz Halogen: The installation of mercury vapor or
quartz halogen fixtures is prohibited. Existing mercury vapor and quartz
halogen fixtures shall be removed and replaced with compliant lighting
fixtures.
   D.   Signage: Bottom mounted outdoor light fixtures for any advertising sign
lighting is prohibited.
   E.   Security Lighting: Dusk to dawn lights are prohibited. Unshielded wall
pack type fixtures are prohibited.
   F.   Landscaping: Unshielded floodlight or spotlight fixtures are
prohibited.
   G.   Floodlighting: Building mounted floodlights used for area lighting and/
or yard security lighting is prohibited unless the floodlight fixture is fully
shielded, directed downward, and does not cause or create spill lighting.
   H.   Temporary Lighting: Any temporary lighting that violates the provisions
of this chapter. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-14-7: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Fossil Fuel Light (Gas): Lighting produced by the combustion of natural
gas or other utility type fossil fuels is exempt. (This does not exempt
lighting produced indirectly from combustion of natural gas or other utility
type fossil fuels, such as through the use of electricity to produce lighting.)
   B.   Federal, State, And Town Facilities: Those facilities and lands owned,
operated or protected by the U.S. federal government, state, or the town are
exempted by law from all requirements of this chapter. Voluntary compliance
with the intent of this chapter at those facilities is strongly encouraged.
   C.   Holiday Lights: Low wattage outdoor lighting fixtures for traditional
holiday decorations, except for floodlights or spotlights.
   D.   Landscape Lighting: Landscape accent lighting consisting of low voltage
light fixtures and/or incandescent bulbs under thirty five (35) watts are
exempt provided they are shielded. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-14-8: PROCEDURES FOR COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Time Limitations: When an application for a change in use, an
expansion, modification, or structural alteration to a building or site, that
has existing legal nonconforming outdoor lighting, is submitted to the town,
all exterior lighting fixtures shall be brought into conformance with the
provisions of this chapter at the time of permit issuance.
   B.   Application:
      1.   Any individual applying for a building or use permit under the town
regulations intending to install outdoor lighting fixtures shall, as a part of
said application, submit evidence that the proposed lighting will comply with
this chapter.
      2.   All other individuals intending to install outdoor lighting fixtures
shall submit an application to the building department providing evidence that
the proposed work will comply with this chapter. Landscape lighting or
decorative lighting consisting of low voltage light fixtures and/or
incandescent bulbs under thirty five (35) watts may be exempt from the
requirements of this subsection B2.
   C.   Contents Of Application: The application shall contain, but shall not
necessarily be limited to, the following information:
      1.   Plans indicating the proposed luminaire location on the building and
the site (if applicable), and the type of illuminating devices, fixtures,
lamps, supports, other devices, the aiming angles and a statement of the
proposed hours when the luminaires will be on and when they will be
extinguished.
      2.   Manufacturer's catalog cut sheets and drawings that describe the
illuminating devices, fixtures, lamps, lumen outputs and wattages, supports,
and other devices, etc.
      3.   For commercial and industrial uses and for all lighted parking lots
a photometric study that includes a lux/foot-candle grid that demonstrates
adequate intensities and uniformity as well as the maximum lighting intensity
(eye illumination levels) measured at the property lines.
   D.   Issuance Of Permit: Upon compliance with the requirements of this
chapter, the building department shall issue a permit for installation of the
outdoor lighting fixtures, to be installed per the approved application. In the
event the application is part of a building permit application, the issuance of
the building permit will be granted if the applicant is in compliance with this
chapter as well as other pertinent laws and regulations.
   E.   Amendment To Permit: Should the applicant desire to substitute outdoor
light fixtures or lamps after a permit has been issued, the applicant must
submit all changes to the building department for approval, with adequate
information to assure compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
CHAPTER 15
SIGN PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-15-1: Purpose
10-15-2: Intent
10-15-3: Definitions
10-15-4: General Sign Regulations
10-15-5: Permitted Permanent Signs
10-15-6: Temporary Signs
10-15-7: Community Kiosk Signs
10-15-8: Submittal And Permit Requirements
10-15-9: Change In Use
10-15-10: Exceptions
10-15-11: Prohibited, Unsafe And Illegal Signs
10-15-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish comprehensive provisions that will
eliminate confusing, distracting and unsafe signs; establish reasonable
regulations to promote economic vitality for local businesses and services; and
enhance the visual environment of the town of Parker. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-15-2: INTENT:
The intent of these provisions is to maximize establishment identification,
minimize visual clutter, and maintain a high quality of signs throughout the
town. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-15-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter the following words, terms and phrases shall
have the following meanings and as may be prescribed in section
10-18-1, appendix A, of this title:
ANIMATED SIGN: Any sign or part of a sign which changes physical position by
any movement, rotation or undulation or by the movement of any light used in
conjunction with a sign such as blinking, traveling, flashing or changing
degree of intensity of any light movement other than burning continuously.
AWNING OR CANOPY SIGN: A sign on a traditional canvas awning and/or a sign on
the edge of a structural canopy that is otherwise permitted by this title.
BANNER SIGN: A temporary sign of fabric, plastic, paper, or other light pliable
material not enclosed in a rigid frame.
BILLBOARD: See definition of Off Site Sign.
BULLETIN BOARD: A sign which identifies a noncommercial institution or
organization, on site, which contains the name of the institution or
organization and associated individuals, and general announcements of events or
activities at the institution, or similar messages of general public interest.
BUSINESS SIGN: A sign that attracts attention to a business or profession
conducted on site, or to a commodity or service sold, offered or manufactured
on site, or to an entertainment offered on site.
COMMUNITY SIGN: The "town of Parker welcome signs" and the integrated public
service club(s) sign.
CONSTRUCTION SIGN: A temporary sign, limited to the period of construction,
erected on a premises of an existing construction project, and designating the
architect, contractor, designer, engineer, financier, or name and nature of the
project.
DIRECTIONAL SIGN: Signs limited to directional messages, which do not contain
identification or advertising copy, which aid the flow of pedestrian and
vehicular traffic as well as provide directional information relating to points
of interest, institutions, facilities and districts.
DIRECTORY SIGN: A sign listing the names, uses, and/or locations of the various
businesses or tenants within a building or a multi-tenant development, but not
for the purpose of advertising products, goods, or services.
FASCIA SIGN: A sign permanently affixed to a horizontal piece covering the
joint between the top of a building wall and the projecting eaves of a roof.
FIXED BALLOON: Any lighter than air or gas filled inflatable object attached by
a tether to a fixed place.
FREESTANDING MONUMENT SIGN: An identification sign on its own self-supporting
permanent structure, detached from supportive elements of a building, on a base
which has an aggregate width of at least fifty percent (50%) of the width of
the sign and shall include the street address.
GARAGE SALE SIGN: A temporary sign advertising a temporary garage sale (see
definition of Portable Sign and regulations in subsection 10-15-6H of this
chapter).
GASOLINE FUEL PRICE SIGN: A changeable copy sign advertising gasoline fuel
prices only.
IDENTIFICATION SIGN: A sign that includes, as copy, only the name of the
business, place, facility, organization, building, or person it identifies and
shall include the street address which shall be positioned on the side of the
building that it is addressed from.
ILLUMINATED SIGN: A sign with the surface artificially lighted, either
internally or externally.
KIOSK SIGN: A town provided, informational sign providing directional
information to planned residential developments, special districts, and
community facilities.
MARQUEE SIGN: A sign that is usually defined as any movie type marquee with
changeable copy. Marquee signs are considered permanent signs. A "marquee" is
defined as a permanent canopy structure constructed of rigid materials that are
attached to and supported by the building and that projects over the entrance
to a building.
MENU BOARD SIGN: A sign displaying the bill of fare of a restaurant.
NAMEPLATE SIGN: A sign that identifies a resident's or home's name and address
or the name of a farm, ranch, or commercial ranch. Such signs may be shingle,
building, wall, or archway mounted signs.
NONCONFORMING SIGN: A sign lawfully erected and maintained prior to the
adoption hereof that does not conform with the requirements of this title.
OFF SITE SIGN: A sign that directs attention for a commercial purpose to a
business, commodity, a service, entertainment, product or attraction that is
not sold, offered, or existing on the property where the sign is located.
OPEN HOUSE DIRECTIONAL SIGN: A sign used to advertise the sale of a house and
direct traffic to the house for sale.
PARAPET SIGN: A sign attached to that portion of a building's exterior wall
which projects above the plate line of the building.
POLE SIGN: A sign that is supported by a pole and otherwise separated from the
ground by air. Like monument signs, pole signs are separate from a building.
POLITICAL SIGN: A temporary sign which supports any candidate for public office
or urges action for or against any other matter on the ballot of primary,
general, or special elections.
PORTABLE SIGN: A temporary sign not affixed to a structure or ground mounted on
a site. It rests on the ground and consists of two (2) sign faces.
PROJECTING SIGN: A sign attached to a building or other structure and extending
in whole or in part more than fourteen inches (14") beyond the building or
other structure.
READER PANEL SIGN: A sign designed to permit immediate change of copy using
individual letters, not electronic or digital in nature, for use only by
churches and schools.
REAL ESTATE SIGN: A sign advertising for sale, lease or rent the property or
building upon which it is located.
ROOF SIGN: A sign erected on, above, or over the roof of a building so that it
projects above the highest point of the roofline, parapet, or fascia.
SHINGLE SIGN: A sign suspended from, and located entirely under, a covered
porch, covered walkway, or an awning and is anchored or rigidly hung to prevent
the sign from swinging due to wind movement.
SIGN: Any object, display, structure, or device (including, but not limited to,
letters, words, numerals, figures, symbols, pictures, outline, character,
color, illumination, trademark, logo, or any part or combination) used for
visual communication which is intended to attract the attention of the public
by providing identification, advertising or directional information for a
specific business, service, product, person, organization, place or building
and is visible from the public rights of way or other properties.
The term "sign" shall also mean and include any display of one or more of the
following: single or multiple colored bands, stripes, patterns, trademark,
logo, outlines or delineations displayed for the purpose of commercial
identification or attraction.
The term "sign" shall not include any national or state flags, window displays,
athletic scoreboards or the official announcement or signs of government.
VEHICLE SIGN: A sign mounted, painted or otherwise placed on a trailer, truck,
automobile or other vehicle so parked or placed so that the sign thereon is
visible from a highway, public street or right of way and is so parked
primarily for the purpose of displaying advertising signage.
WALL SIGN: A sign fastened to or painted on the exterior wall of a building or
structure in such a manner that the wall becomes the supporting structure for,
or forms the background surface of, the sign.
WINDOW SIGN: Any poster, cutout letters, painted text or graphic, or other text
or visual presentation affixed to the interior or exterior of a window, or
placed within six feet (6') behind a windowpane, and is placed to be read from
the exterior of a building. This does not include any item of merchandise
normally displayed within a show window of a merchant. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-15-4: GENERAL SIGN REGULATIONS:
   A.   The regulations, requirements, and provisions set forth in this chapter
shall apply to all signs erected, placed, or constructed within the town:
      1.   Sign permits and a zoning clearance shall be required for all signs
except those signs specified in section
10-15-10 of this chapter. The building official, or his designee, shall issue a
sign permit only if the proposed sign, construction, alteration, reerection,
maintenance and location of the sign comply with these regulations.
      2.   All signs shall be structurally designed, constructed, erected and
maintained in accordance with all applicable provisions and requirements of the
town of Parker adopted codes and ordinances.
      3.   All signs and sign structures, conforming and nonconforming, shall
be maintained in good order, repair, and appearance at all times so as not to
constitute a danger or hazard to the public safety or create visual blight as
determined by the zoning administrator.
      4.   Signs shall not be located in a manner that interferes with
pedestrian or vehicular travel, poses a hazard to either pedestrians or
vehicles, or within the specified "visibility triangle".
      5.   Signs shall not be located within or projecting over any public
street, right of way, or other public property, except for town approved kiosk
sign structures, shingle signs, projecting signs and garage sale signs as
permitted by this title. The town may install signs on its own property to
identify public buildings and uses, to provide necessary traffic control and
directional information.
      6.   The source of the sign's illumination, except neon illumination,
shall not be visible from any street, sidewalk, or adjacent property. This
shall not preclude the use of neon sign elements that shall be limited to use
within the commercial zoning districts only.
      7.   There shall be no visible angle iron supports, guywires, braces or
secondary supports except in the case of projecting signs. All sign supports
shall be an integral part of the sign design.
      8.   Where there is conflict between these regulations and other town
regulations, the more restrictive shall apply.
      9.   Signage within approved PADs may deviate only from the requirements
governing the total aggregate sign area and sign dimensional requirements of
this chapter, provided the PAD has an approved comprehensive sign package and
all proposed signage within the PAD is in compliance with that comprehensive
sign package.
      10.   Signs and/or banners shall not be placed in such a manner that they
obstruct town required informational, traffic or safety signs.
      11.   The overall building height is inclusive of any signs projecting
above the building or roofline.
   B.   "Sign area" is defined and shall be measured as follows.
      1.   Sign copy mounted or painted on a background panel or area
distinctively painted, textured or constructed as a background for the sign
copy shall be measured as that area within the outside dimensions of the
background panel or surface. The base of a freestanding monument sign shall not
be calculated as sign area unless said base contains signage (see definition of
Sign, section
10-15-3 of this chapter).
      2.   Sign copy mounted as individual letters and/or graphics against a
wall, fascia, or parapet of a building or other structure that has not been
painted, textured, or otherwise altered to provide a distinctive background for
the sign copy shall be measured as a sum of the smallest rectangle that will
enclose each word, grouping of such letters, words, or graphics in the total
sign copy.
      3.   Multiface signs shall be measured as follows:
         a.   A double faced sign shall be considered as one sign when
determining the sign area, provided both faces are parallel and the distance
between faces does not exceed one foot (1') or the interior angle between the
two (2) sign faces is forty five degrees (45°) or less. If the interior angle
is greater than forty five degrees (45°), the sign area shall be the sum of the
area of the two (2) faces.
         b.   Where a sign has three (3) or more faces the area of the sign
shall be calculated as the total sum of the area of all faces.
   MULTIFACE SIGNS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/aafe5f4495f34483a0a5aa27eb6ffd889002f0d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1048.gif]
         c.   Where a sign is a spherical, freeform, sculptural or other
nonplanar sign the sign area shall be fifty percent (50%) of the sum of the
area of the sides of the smallest polygon that will encompass the sign
structure.
   NONPLANAR SIGNS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/aafe5f4495f34483a0a5aa27eb6ffd889002f0d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1050.gif]
      4.   The aggregate sign area for all signs on a lot or parcel shall be
the sum of the areas of all the signs, except the area for the following:
         a.   Directional signs, assisting in the flow of traffic, which do not
exceed an area of two (2) square feet or a height of three feet (3') and do not
include advertising.
         b.   Street address wall signs, which do not exceed an area of two (2)
square feet.
         c.   Signs necessary for safety, which do not exceed an area of two
(2) square feet or height of three feet (3').
         d.   For sale, lease or rent signs.
   C.   "Sign height" is defined and shall be measured as follows:
      1.   Freestanding signs shall be measured as the vertical distance from
the top of the highest element of the sign or sign structure to the top of the
curb or sidewalk, or the street grade of the nearest adjacent roadway where no
curb exists. The height of any monument base or other structure erected to
support or ornament the sign shall be measured as part of the sign height.
      2.   Wall, fascia, or parapet mounted sign height shall be measured as
the vertical distance to the top of the sign or sign structure from the base of
the wall on which the sign is located. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-15-5: PERMITTED PERMANENT SIGNS:
   A.   Residential Districts: For all signs within the residential districts
(including single and multiple residential) the following shall apply:
      1.   Single residence uses:
         a.   Shall be externally illuminated or nonilluminated.
         b.   One nameplate sign may be permitted per lot or parcel.
         c.   Within the R1-43, R1-18, R1-10 and R1-6 zoning districts a total
aggregate area of two (2) square feet may be permitted.
         d.   Within the RR-20 and RR-2.5 zoning districts a total aggregate
area of twelve (12) square feet may be permitted.
      2.   Multiple residence uses:
         a.   One nameplate sign may be permitted per unit.
         b.   Sign area shall not exceed a total aggregate area of two (2)
square feet.
         c.   Building number or letter signs for multiple building
developments shall be in compliance with fire department requirements and shall
not be counted as part of the aggregate sign area.
         d.   A maximum of two (2) freestanding monument identification signs
with an aggregate area of twenty four (24) square feet may be permitted per
development. The maximum height shall be five feet (5'). Signs should be
located near the main entrance(s) and may include only the name of the
development and the street address.
      3.   Nonresidential uses: Examples of nonresidential uses in a
residential zone include, but are not limited to, churches, assisted living
facilities, and farms, but do not include home occupations.
         a.   One wall mounted sign per lot or parcel not exceeding six (6)
square feet in area shall be permitted. The sign may include only the name of
the facility, organization or development and the street address.
         b.   One freestanding monument sign per lot, not exceeding twelve (12)
square feet in area nor a height of five feet (5'), may be permitted. The sign
may include only the name of the facility, organization or development and
shall include the street address.
      4.   Subdivision entry/identification signs:
         a.   A wall sign or monument sign may be permitted at no more than two
(2) of the entryway(s) of a subdivision. The signage shall be integrated to
complement the streetscape and landscaping frontages. A maximum aggregate area
of no more than forty eight (48) square feet per subdivision nor more than one
sign on each side of the entry, if wall mounted, may be permitted. Backlighted
signs are preferred; spotlighting signs are strongly discouraged.
         b.   The maximum height shall be five feet (5'). The sign may include
only the name of the development and the street address.
      5.   Reader panel signs:
         a.   Churches may use up to one-half (1/2) of the allowed freestanding
sign area for a reader panel.
      6.   Total signage:
         a.   Single residence uses: Only one nameplate sign per lot or parcel
may be permitted.
         b.   Multiple residence uses: Only one nameplate sign per individual
unit or dwelling may be permitted. A maximum of two (2) freestanding monument
signs or four (4) wall mounted signs per development may be permitted.
         c.   Nonresidential uses: Maximum of two (2) signs per lot or parcel
may be permitted, except schools as outlined above.
   B.   Commercial Districts: For all signs within the commercial districts of
OT, C-1 and C-2 the following regulations shall apply. Additionally, any
complex of three (3) or more businesses shall be required to submit a
comprehensive sign package (see subsection 10-15-8E of this chapter) to be
reviewed and approved by the town.
      1.   Wall or building signage:
         a.   The sign area for any one business or individual tenant shall not
exceed one square foot for each two (2) linear feet of street or store frontage
with the maximum not to exceed twenty four (24) square feet.
         b.   Within a multiple-tenant development, or complex, wall signage
shall only be permitted on the exterior wall of the space occupied by the
business.
         c.   Signage shall not extend horizontally a distance greater than
fifty percent (50%) of the width of the building wall on which it is displayed.
      2.   Freestanding or monument signage:
         a.   One freestanding identification sign shall be permitted per
development and may include only the name of the business and shall include the
address.
         b.   The sign shall not exceed six feet (6') in height.
         c.   For a single-tenant building the sign area shall not exceed one
square foot for each two (2) linear feet of street frontage with the maximum
not to exceed twenty four (24) square feet.
         d.   For a single-building development with multiple tenants the sign
shall not exceed one square foot for each two (2) linear feet of street
frontage with the maximum not to exceed thirty two (32) square feet in area.
         e.   If street frontage is not available then the allowable sign area
may be based on the linear foot of store frontage at a ratio of one square foot
for each five (5) linear feet of store frontage. In the case where there is no
street frontage, the property owner may either share a multi-tenant sign with
the frontage property or erect a freestanding sign on the frontage property
within a "sign easement" procured from the frontage property owner. A minimum
distance of fifty feet (50') shall be maintained between signs on the same
property and from any sign on adjacent properties.
         f.   For multiple-building developments or commercial centers one sign
may be permitted for every three hundred thirty feet (330') of street frontage
for the entire development with a maximum of two (2) signs per street frontage
if applicable. The individual buildings within the development and/or the pad
sites within the commercial center shall not be considered as separate
developments. The minimum distance between two (2) signs on the same street
frontage shall be three hundred thirty feet (330'). Each sign may be a maximum
of forty eight (48) square feet in area and may be either a center
identification sign or a multi- tenant identification sign.
      3.   Directory signs:
         a.   One directory sign may be used when required to identify the
location of various buildings, offices or businesses within a complex. A
directory sign may be externally illuminated or nonilluminated and have a
maximum area of six (6) square feet and a maximum height of six feet (6') and
shall not be included in calculating the total aggregate area for signage
allowed on a parcel or lot or for a particular business.
      4.   Window signage:
         a.   The total aggregate area of all window signs shall not exceed
twenty five percent (25%) of the total area of the windows through which they
are visible.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/aafe5f4495f34483a0a5aa27eb6ffd889002f0d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1032.gif]
 
      5.   Awning signs:
         a.   A maximum of twenty five percent (25%) of the front face area of
the awning may be used for signage.
         b.   May only identify the name of the business. Such signs shall not
include advertising copy.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/aafe5f4495f34483a0a5aa27eb6ffd889002f0d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1034.gif]
 
      6.   Shingle signs and projecting signs:
         a.   One shingle sign or projecting sign which is designed and
oriented primarily for the aid of pedestrians may be allowed per business and
shall be located immediately adjacent to the business it identifies.
         b.   Shall have an eight foot (8') minimum clearance between the
bottom of the sign and the sidewalk.
         c.   Projecting signs shall not project less than six inches (6") nor
more than three feet (3') from the building wall or building face.
         d.   Shingle signs shall have a maximum area of three (3) square feet.
         e.   Projecting signs for each ground floor business, on a street,
shall not exceed one square foot for each linear street frontage of business,
up to a maximum of fifteen (15) square feet.
         f.   May only identify the name of the business. Such signs shall not
include advertising copy.
         g.   A wall, fascia, or parapet sign is not permitted if a projecting
sign is used to identify the business.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/aafe5f4495f34483a0a5aa27eb6ffd889002f0d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1036.gif]
 
      7.   Menu boards:
         a.   Each drive-through or drive-in restaurant may be permitted one
preview board and one ordering menu board. These boards may be freestanding or
wall mounted located not less than forty five feet (45') from the street
property line and the front of the board shall not be visible from the public
street.
         b.   Maximum sign area shall not exceed twelve (12) square feet and
shall not be included in calculating the total aggregate area for signage
allowed on a parcel or lot or for a particular business.
         c.   The sign shall not exceed five feet (5') in height.
      8.   Price signs (for gasoline service stations only):
         a.   One freestanding sign per street frontage on which the service
station has frontage.
         b.   Maximum sign area shall not exceed twelve (12) square feet.
         c.   Maximum sign height shall not exceed five feet (5').
      9.   Total signage:
         a.   The combination of all of the above types and styles of allowed
signage shall be included in calculating the total aggregate sign area, except
where specifically excluded or otherwise exempted by this title. For corner
buildings or developments only the main entrance frontage shall be measured
when determining the allowable signage.
         b.   The combined total aggregate sign area of all signs for any one
business in the OT zoning district shall not exceed forty eight (48) square
feet.
         c.   The combined total aggregate sign area of all signs for any one
business in the C-1 and C-2 zoning district shall not exceed eighty (80) square
feet.
         d.   Only one wall or building sign per business may be permitted.
   C.   Industrial Districts: Signs within the industrial districts of I-1 and
I-2 shall comply with the following applicable restrictions. Additionally, any
development of three (3) or more businesses shall be required to submit a
comprehensive sign package (see subsection
10-15-8E of this chapter) to be reviewed and approved by the town.
      1.   Wall or building signage:
         a.   Wall identification signs pertaining to any one business or
individual tenant shall not exceed one square foot for each linear foot of
street or building frontage with the maximum not to exceed twenty four (24)
square feet.
         b.   For a single-building development with multiple tenants a wall or
building sign shall only be permitted on the exterior wall of the space
occupied by the business and shall not exceed one square foot for each linear
foot of street frontage with the maximum not to exceed twenty four (24) square
feet in area per sign.
         c.   The aggregate of all wall or building signage shall not extend
horizontally a distance greater than fifty percent (50%) of the width of the
building wall on which it is displayed.
         d.   Signage shall be located near the building or business entryway
and shall not exceed a height of twenty four feet (24') above finished grade.
      2.   Freestanding monument signage:
         a.   For a single user/tenant development there may be permitted one
freestanding monument identification sign, not exceeding eight feet (8') in
height or thirty two (32) square feet in area.
         b.   For a multi-tenant development there may be one freestanding
monument identification sign, not exceeding eight feet (8') in height or forty
eight (48) square feet in area.
         c.   If the development is located on a corner lot or parcel, for both
the single-tenant and the multi-tenant developments, then two (2) signs of the
dimensions outlined above (32 square feet and 48 square feet, respectively) may
be permitted.
         d.   Where two (2) signs are permitted there shall be a minimum
distance of three hundred feet (300') between the freestanding signs.
         e.   If wall, building or other types of signage will be used for the
development then the maximum height of the freestanding signs shall be six feet
(6') with a maximum area of twenty four (24) square feet.
      3.   Directional signs:
         a.   Such signs shall not exceed an area of six (6) square feet or a
height of three feet (3'). These signs shall not be included in calculating the
total aggregate area of signage allowed on a particular lot or for a particular
business, and shall not include any advertising.
      4.   Total signage:
         a.   The combination of all of the above types and styles of allowed
signage shall be included in calculating the total aggregate sign area, except
where specifically excluded or otherwise exempted by this title. For corner
buildings or developments only the main entrance frontage shall be measured
when determining the allowable signage.
         b.   The total maximum aggregate signage shall not exceed eighty (80)
square feet per business.
   D.   Open Space And Public Land Districts: For all signs within the OSR open
space district or the PL public land district the following shall apply:
      1.   Wall sign:
         a.   One wall mounted sign per lot or parcel not exceeding six (6)
square feet in area may be permitted. The sign may include only the name of the
facility or development and the street address.
      2.   Freestanding sign:
         a.   One freestanding sign per lot not exceeding twelve (12) square
feet in area nor a height of five feet (5') may be permitted. The sign may
include only the name of the facility or development and shall include the
street address.
      3.   Directional or informational signage:
         a.   Signs shall be nonilluminated.
         b.   Signs shall not exceed twelve (12) square feet in area or six
feet (6') in height.
      4.   Reader panel signs:
         a.   Elementary and secondary schools may also have, in addition to
the above, one freestanding reader panel sign no greater than twenty four (24)
square feet in area and five feet (5') in height. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-15-6: TEMPORARY SIGNS:
   A.   Banners, Pennants And Displays For Grand Openings:
      1.   Banners, pennants, and other displays, for the grand opening of a
business, shall be allowed within the commercial zoning districts on a one time
basis for a maximum of fourteen (14) consecutive days.
      2.   Banners, pennants, and other displays for special sales events may
be permitted within the commercial zoning districts. A business may request
such signs and displays a maximum of four (4) times per year for a maximum
period of ten (10) consecutive days on each occasion. A minimum of thirty (30)
days shall pass between each such display. Such signs and displays shall be
removed immediately upon termination of the sale that they advertise or after
the ten (10) day period, whichever occurs first.
      3.   Written approval must be obtained from the zoning administrator, or
his designee, prior to the installation of any special sales event or grand
opening banners, pennants, signs, balloon, or other displays.
      4.   Banners and pennants shall be displayed only on the building and not
within the parking area, perimeter landscape, or some other area of the
development.
      5.   The maximum banner size shall be four feet by eight feet (4' x 8'),
or thirty two (32) square feet, and shall be limited to one per street frontage
for the business.
      6.   No pennant, banner or display shall be placed on or above the roof
of any building.
   B.   Special Events:
      1.   Off Site Directional Signs:
         a.   A sign plan shall be required in conjunction with the special
event permit or temporary use permit. Said sign plan shall show the proposed
location, placement, and size of all off site directional signs.
         b.   Directional event signs shall be no greater than four (4) square
feet and may be permitted within the town right of way, excluding medians, in
accordance with the approved sign plan for an approved special event permit and
an approved right of way permit.
         c.   Signs may be placed twenty four (24) hours in advance of the
event and shall be removed within twenty four (24) hours after the conclusion
of the event.
      2.   Banners And Promotional Signs:
         a.   Banners shall be made of cloth, nylon, or similar material.
         b.   Banners may be fastened to streetlights that are specifically
designed to accommodate banners. Such banners may advertise a town authorized
special event or a community wide event or a community message but not for
individual businesses.
         c.   All banners shall be reviewed and approved by the zoning
administrator or his/her designee.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/aafe5f4495f34483a0a5aa27eb6ffd889002f0d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1040.gif]
 
(Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
   C.   Political Signs:
      1.   Political signs are permitted in all zones provided the sign is not
placed in a location that is hazardous to public safety, obstructs clear vision
in the area or interferes with the requirements of the Americans with
disabilities act (42 United States Code sections 12101 through 12213 and 47
United States Code sections 225 and 611) and subject to the requirements set
forth in subsections C2 through C4 of this section.
      2.   Political signs shall not be displayed earlier than sixty (60) days
prior to a primary election and shall be removed within fifteen (15) days after
the specific election to which they refer. (If a candidate is in a runoff
election, the sign may remain until 15 days after the completion of the runoff
election.)
      3.   A political sign or portion of a sign shall not be located in, nor
project into, a public right of way that is owned or controlled by the town
except as permitted by state law.
      4.   The total sign area permitted on any residentially zoned lot or
parcel is sixteen (16) square feet. The total sign area permitted on any
commercial, industrial or other zoned lot or parcel is thirty two (32) square
feet. (Ord. 01-2012, 10-16-2012)
   D.   Real Estate Signs: Signs advertising the sale, lease or renting of a
building, suite, dwelling or lot shall conform to the following regulations and
are exempt from the total aggregate sign area:
      1.   Real estate signs are permitted in all zones.
      2.   In residential zoning districts one nonilluminated sign, located on
the subject property, shall be permitted. Said sign shall not exceed six (6)
square feet in area or four feet (4') in height. For multiple residential
developments the real estate signs shall be placed at the dwelling unit unless
an alternative location, not along the street frontage, is provided by the HOA
for all such signs.
      3.   In commercial zoning districts one nonilluminated sign, located on
the subject property, shall be permitted. Said sign shall not exceed six (6)
square feet in area or four feet (4') in height.
      4.   A maximum of four (4) "open house" directional signs, including any
such sign on the property of the home for sale, may be posted for each home not
within the public right of way. Each sign shall have a maximum height of three
feet (3'). The signs may be posted only when a sales person is on duty at the
home and for no longer than nine (9) hours during any twenty four (24) hour
period.
      5.   All real estate signs shall be removed upon closing of the sale.
   E.   Construction And Future Development Signs:
      1.   For residential construction, one construction sign may be posted on
the lot or parcel and shall have a maximum area of six (6) square feet and a
maximum height of four feet (4').
      2.   For commercial construction, one construction sign may be posted on
the lot or parcel and shall have a maximum area of twenty four (24) square feet
and a maximum height of six feet (6').
      3.   Construction signs shall not be erected without a permit and not
before application for the building permit has been submitted to the town for
the construction of the project/development.
      4.   For commercial projects, one future development sign may be posted
on a lot or parcel, indicating only the name of the future business and the
leasing information, only after the land is in escrow. The sign shall have a
maximum area of twenty four (24) square feet and a maximum height of six feet
(6'). If the development is located on a corner lot or parcel, then two (2)
signs of the dimensions outlined above may be permitted. A letter from the
property owner will be required that states the land is in escrow, gives
permission for the posting of the future development sign, outlines the
maintenance responsibilities and the parties responsible for the removal of the
sign after the required sign permit has expired. The sign shall be limited to
one year with the ability to renew for one additional year.
      5.   In all cases, such signs shall be removed within ten (10) days
following the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the project.
   F.   Subdivision Model Home Complex/Sales Office And Flags:
      1.   Signage for the model home complex and sales office shall be limited
to no more than fifty (50) square feet of total sign area; total of no more
than six (6) signs; the height of the signs shall be limited to five feet (5').
      2.   Subdivision "attention flags" are considered signage and may be
permitted in conjunction with an approved on site model home complex/sales
office. The aggregate area of the attention flags shall be included in the
calculations for total allowed signage and shall be placed on, or behind, the
property line at the model home complex/sales office. The flags shall have a
maximum area of twelve (12) square feet, shall contain no lettering and may not
be maintained higher than fifteen feet (15') above the adjoining ground.
      3.   The height of the flagpole for either the state of Arizona flag and/
or the U.S. flag is limited to twenty five feet (25') and if illuminated shall
be illuminated from above the flag and directed downward so as to be compliant
with the state of Arizona dark sky provisions.
      4.   The flagpole(s) must be removed when ninety five percent (95%) of
the lots in the subdivision are sold and/or at the time the on site model home/
sales office use is removed.
   G.   Portable Signs:
      1.   Portable signs shall be allowed only in the commercial C-1 and C-
2 zoning districts. Signs may be placed on site or within the adjacent public
rights of way provided they are placed in a manner that does not impede or
restrict vehicular, nonvehicular, or pedestrian traffic. No portable signs
shall be allowed within the sight triangle at intersections or within the
center medians that divide portions of paved or unpaved roads.
      2.   Portable signs shall not exceed three feet (3') in height or six (6)
square feet in area and shall not exceed one sign per business.
      3.   Signs may be placed, in the permitted areas, only between sunrise
and sunset. Signs shall be removed daily prior to sunset; except, if used to
advertise a meeting, then they shall be removed at the conclusion of the
meeting, or they shall be subject to confiscation by the town.
      4.   Portable signs shall not be used for real estate sales.
   H.   Yard, Carport, Or Garage Sale Signs:
      1.   Garage sale signs shall be limited to residential districts only
(not on commercial corners/zoning districts) and shall not exceed four (4)
square feet. Such signs shall not be up longer than three (3) consecutive days.
      2.   No more than three (3) portable signs per yard or garage sale shall
be permitted inclusive of the one sign on the property. A maximum of two (2)
directional signs may be placed off site, provided they are located on private
property, not within the public right of way, with the private property owner's
permission.
      3.   Signs may be placed, in the permitted areas, only between sunrise
and sunset. Signs shall be removed daily prior to sunset or they shall be
subject to confiscation by the town. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-15-7: COMMUNITY KIOSK SIGNS:
Sign panels on a town approved kiosk structure may be authorized for the
purpose of providing directional information to community facilities and
residential developments, including apartment developments of one hundred (100)
units or more, within the first two (2) years after approval of the site plan
for development, which are offering the first time sale and/or lease of single-
family subdivisions, multi-family condominiums, or apartments that are located
within the town limits. Sign panels may be single or double faced. Maximum sign
height for a single sign structure (kiosk) shall be twelve feet (12').
   A.   Sign panels shall be located on designated town kiosk structures within
the public right of way, or, upon finding that such location will not permit
adequate directional information, kiosk structures may be approved on private
property (with a sign easement designating the town as a third party
beneficiary) with the written permission of the property owner. Such permission
shall include the consent of the property owners to allow the town, in the
event of noncompliance, to enter said property and remove the sign. A kiosk
location plan shall be prepared showing the site of each kiosk and shall be
submitted to and approved by the zoning administrator, or his/her designee,
prior to the acceptance of a sign permit application.
   B.   Each temporary real estate directional sign panel may contain only the
name of the subdivision or builder or new multi-family development, the
corporate logo, and a directional arrow. Community directional sign panels
(town hall, library, medical facilities, parks, historic sites, etc.) may also
be allowed on kiosk structures.
   C.   No temporary real estate kiosk sign shall be placed within three
hundred feet (300') of another except when they are across the street from one
another.
   D.   Directional sign panels shall conform to colors and design standards
approved by the zoning administrator, or his/her designee.
   E.   Any sign panel approved for a particular development project within the
town shall not be changed to another project without prior approval of the
zoning administrator or his/her designee.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/aafe5f4495f34483a0a5aa27eb6ffd889002f0d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1026.gif]
 
(Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-15-8: SUBMITTAL AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Sign permit approval is required for constructing or altering any
nonexempt sign. A sign permit application shall be made in writing on forms
provided by the town. The following information shall be required as part of
all sign permit applications:
      1.   Business owner's name, address, telephone and fax number.
      2.   Sign contractor's name, address, telephone and fax number.
      3.   Inventory of all existing signs on the property showing the type and
dimensions of each sign as well as a site plan showing the location of each
sign.
      4.   Fully dimensioned plans and elevations showing the dimensions,
design copy, and location of each proposed sign in relation to the property
line(s) and public right of way.
      5.   Plans indicating the scope and structural detail of the work to be
done, including details of all connections, supports, footings, and materials
to be used.
      6.   Required information for an electrical permit for all signage
illumination.
      7.   When a comprehensive sign package is required by this title the
submittal shall include information regarding the color(s), material(s), type
of sign (e.g., attached or detached), and letter samples that are for all
tenant, freestanding center identification signage, directional signs and
window signs, and any other information deemed necessary by the town to
adequately review the comprehensive sign package.
   B.   Two (2) copies of all information listed in subsection A of this
section shall be submitted with the application for each sign, one copy being
returned to the applicant at the time the permit is issued.
   C.   Before issuing any sign permit required by this title, the town shall
collect a fee in accordance with a fee schedule established by the town
council. If work, for which a permit is required by this title, is started
before a permit has been issued, the fees specified above shall be doubled. The
payment of such double fee shall not relieve any persons from complying fully
with the requirements of this title in the execution of the work or from any
penalties prescribed herein.
   D.   All signs for which a permit is required shall be subject to
inspections during various stages of construction as prescribed by the town of
Parker building safety department.
   E.   When a comprehensive sign plan is required by this title, the submittal
shall comply with the standards and submittal requirements as outlined below. A
comprehensive sign plan is intended to provide for the establishment of signage
criteria that are tailored to a specific development location, and which may
vary from specific ordinance provisions. The intent is to provide for flexible
sign criteria that promote superior design through architectural integration of
the site, buildings and signs. A comprehensive sign plan shall demonstrate
consistency and uniformity among signs within a project. The requirements of a
comprehensive sign plan shall apply to all businesses and/or developments
within a related project, even if the properties have been subdivided.
Comprehensive sign plans approved under this section shall be evaluated based
upon the following criteria:
      1.   Placement: All signs shall be placed where they are sufficiently
visible and readable for their function. Factors to be considered shall include
the purpose of the sign, its location relative to traffic movement and access
points, site features and structures. In commercial centers in which some
tenants are in locations having little or no street visibility, in order to
provide identification, wall signs may be placed on walls of the building in
which such tenants are located, even though not a wall of the space is occupied
by those tenants.
      2.   Quantity: The number of signs that may be approved within any
development shall not be greater than that required to provide project
identification and entry signs, internal circulation and directional
information to destinations and/or development subareas, and business
identification. Factors to be considered shall include the size of the
development, the number of development subareas, and the division or
integration of sign functions.
      3.   Size: All signs shall be no larger than necessary for visibility and
readability. Factors to be considered in determining appropriate size shall
include topography, amount of sign copy, placement of display (location and
height), lettering style and the presence of distractive influences. Specific
justification must be made if a request is submitted for a freestanding or wall
sign to exceed by more than twenty five percent (25%) any maximum height
standard or by fifty percent (50%) any maximum area standard allowed in the
regular ordinance.
      4.   Materials: Sign materials shall be compatible with architectural
and/or natural features of the project. This may be accomplished through
similarity of materials for sign structures and faces, the use of complementary
colors, similarity of architectural style, or the use of a consistent lettering
style or copy.
      5.   Context: The design of all signs should respect the context of the
surrounding area and the character established by existing signage. Items to be
considered include, but are not limited to, lettering style, sign placement,
and architectural style.
      6.   Submittal Package: Ten (10) copies of the following should be
submitted with the sign application to be reviewed by the town staff and
planning and zoning commission. The specific submittal shall include, at a
minimum, the following information:
         a.   Information regarding the color(s), material(s), type of sign
(e.g., attached or detached), and letter samples that are for all tenant,
freestanding center identification signage, directional signs, window signs and
any other information deemed necessary by the town to adequately review the
comprehensive sign plan (both in a graphic and written format).
         b.   A justification letter describing the request and how the sign
structure, materials, and colors are compatible with the project's building
architecture. Include a list in outline form of each sign requested, both
freestanding and wall, to include verbiage, area in square feet, and height.
         c.   Preliminary site/landscape plan including property boundaries and
dimensions. Show adjacent street right of way, existing and proposed, and
existing/proposed street and sidewalk improvements noted to centerline. Show
location of conceptual or existing landscape concepts including trees, shrubs,
ground covers, berms, and screen walls.
         d.   Show location of proposed freestanding signs including
dimensions, height, materials and colors, and method of illumination. Include
elevations of buildings showing wall sign locations with dimensions.
      7.   Amendments: Applications for amendments to the comprehensive sign
package shall be processed in the same way as an original application.
Revisions or amendments to the comprehensive sign package shall require
documentation from all tenants and/or property owners on the property prior to
approval.
      8.   Minor Alterations: Minor alterations in sign locations resulting
from unexpected conditions on site may be approved by the zoning administrator.
(Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-15-9: CHANGE IN USE:
   A.   Whenever the use of land or structures changes, signs, including any
supporting structures that do not relate to the new use or to any product or
service associated with the new use, shall be removed or appropriately altered
within thirty (30) days. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-15-10: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Permits Not Required: Sign permits are not required for the following
signs, provided that such signs are subject to all other provisions of this
title. (Note: Electric permit required for all exterior electric signs.) (Ord.
01-2012, 10-16-2012)
      1.   Standard sign maintenance.
      2.   Yard, carport or garage sale signs. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
      3.   Political signs in accordance with the provisions of section
10-15-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 01-2012, 10-16-2012)
      4.   Real estate and open house signs (see subsection
10-15-6D of this chapter for regulations).
      5.   Nameplate signs for individual residences.
      6.   Messages painted directly on, or adhesive vinyl film affixed to, the
exterior surface of existing mineral glass windows, except that the aggregate
square footage of such signs shall be calculated as window signage.
      7.   Signs required by a county, state or federal agency, provided
permits for such signs are issued by those agencies and signs are posted as
determined by the governing agency.
   B.   Exempted Signage: The provisions of this title shall not apply to the
following. (Note: Electric permits are required for all exterior electric
signs.)
      1.   Flags, pennants or insignia of any nation, state, county, town, or
school.
      2.   Memorial plaques, statuary or remembrances of persons or events
noncommercial in nature, or building identification signs and building
cornerstones when cut or carved into a masonry surface or when made of
noncombustible material and made an integral part of the building or structure.
      3.   Works of fine art, historic or cultural artifacts when not displayed
in conjunction with a commercial enterprise that may derive direct commercial
gain from such display.
      4.   Temporary decorations or displays celebrating the occasion of
traditionally accepted patriotic, religious or local holidays or events.
      5.   Signs that are relevant to the function of the property that are not
visible beyond the boundaries of the lot or parcel upon which they are located,
or from any public right of way.
      6.   Signs displayed within the interior of a building.
      7.   The placement and maintenance of official traffic, fire and police
signs, signals and devices and markings of the state of Arizona and the town of
Parker or other authorized public agency, and the posting of notices as
required by law.
      8.   Nonilluminated directional or informational signs of a noncommercial
public or quasi-public nature, and community signs.
      9.   Signs displayed during recognized holidays as identification of
temporary sales areas for trees and similar holiday items in conjunction with
an approved temporary use permit. Such signs shall be exempted only when
displayed within thirty (30) days of the recognized holiday. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-
6-2005)
10-15-11: PROHIBITED, UNSAFE AND ILLEGAL SIGNS:
   A.   Prohibited Signs: Any sign not specifically listed as permitted by this
title is prohibited, including, but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Billboards are prohibited in the town of Parker.
      2.   Signs mounted, attached, or painted on trailers, boats, or motor
vehicles primarily or consistently parked, stored, or displayed in a manner
intended to attract the attention of the public for advertising purposes. This
does not prohibit the identification of a firm or its principal products on a
vehicle operating during the normal course of business or being taken home.
      3.   Signs attached to any utility pole or structure, streetlight,
traffic signal, tree, fence, fire hydrant, park bench or other location on
public property, unless otherwise specifically addressed in this chapter.
      4.   The use of pennants, banners, balloons, streamers, and similar
displays, except as permitted in section
10-15-6 of this chapter.
      5.   Off site signs, unless otherwise permitted by this chapter.
      6.   Signs that are animated, or rotate (except barber poles), or
computer generated changing signs, or have intermittent or flashing
illumination, or emit audible sound or visible matter, or LED signs (except
time and temperature units).
      7.   Pole mounted signs.
      8.   Signs displayed in a manner or locations that prevent free ingress
and egress from a door, window or other exit.
      9.   Signs displayed in a location in such a manner as to obstruct or
interfere with an official traffic sign, signal or device, or signs that
obstruct or interfere with the driver's view of approaching, merging or
intersecting traffic and signs within the road medians or signs that are
otherwise prohibited by this title.
      10.   The use of reader panel signs, except as permitted in subsections
10-15-5A and D of this chapter.
      11.   Fixed balloons, as defined in section
10-15-3 of this chapter, used for promotional and advertisement purposes.
      12.   Signage on wireless communication facilities unless otherwise
required by the town of Parker.
   B.   Unsafe Signs:
      1.   If the building official, or his designee, determines any sign or
sign structure to be in an unsafe condition, he shall immediately notify, in
writing, the owner of such sign who shall correct such condition within forty
eight (48) hours.
      2.   If the correction has not been made within forty eight (48) hours,
the building official, or his/her designee, may have the sign removed if it
creates a danger to the public safety or have any necessary repairs or
maintenance performed at the expense of the sign owner or owner or lessee of
the property upon which the sign is located.
   C.   Illegal Signs:
      1.   The zoning administrator, or other designated town official, shall
remove all illegal signs or legal signs placed in prohibited locations. Should
an entity continue to place a sign(s) without a permit(s), a citation may be
issued. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
CHAPTER 16
WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS
SECTION:
10-16-1: Purpose And Intent
10-16-2: Conformance With Applicable Codes
10-16-3: Definitions
10-16-4: General Requirements
10-16-5: Permitted Uses
10-16-6: Conditional Use Permits
10-16-7: Submittal Requirements
10-16-8: Exemptions
10-16-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to establish general guidelines and a
review procedure for the siting of wireless communications towers and antennas.
   B.   The intent of these provisions is to protect neighborhoods, protect
scenic and environmentally sensitive areas, prompt collocation, prompt location
on existing structures, and improve the aesthetics of the facilities through
careful design and innovative camouflaging techniques. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-16-2: CONFORMANCE WITH APPLICABLE CODES:
   A.   All towers and antennas must meet or exceed current standards and
regulations of the FAA, the FCC, any other agency of the state or federal
government with the authority to regulate towers and antennas, and the
provisions of this chapter. The following provisions are not intended to
prevent the use of any material or method of installation not specifically
prescribed by this chapter, provided any such alternate has been approved in
writing by the zoning administrator. The zoning administrator shall consider
any state of the art technology, which is consistent with the intent of this
title, as new wireless communication technology develops. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-
2005)
10-16-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter the following terms shall have the following
definitions:
ALTERNATIVE TOWER STRUCTURE: Any clock or bell towers, church steeples,
chimneys or stacks, elevators, light poles, power poles and similar alternative
design mounting structures that camouflage or conceal the presence of antennas
or towers.
ANTENNA: Any exterior transmitting or receiving device mounted on a tower,
building or structure and used in communications that radiates or captures
electromagnetic waves, digital signals, analog signals, radio frequencies
(excluding radar signals), wireless telecommunication signals, or other
communication signals.
   Dish Antenna: A bowl shaped device for the reception and/or transmission of
radio frequency communications signals in a specific directional pattern.
   Panel Antenna: A relatively flat rectangular device that transmits and/or
receives radio frequency signals in a directional pattern of less than three
hundred sixty degrees (360°).
   Whip Antenna: A long and thin device that transmits and/or receives radio
frequency signals in a three hundred sixty degree (360°) radial pattern.
BUILDING MOUNTED ANTENNA: Any antenna that is attached to the walls of, or
integrated into, buildings or parapet walls.
COLLOCATION: The use of a single mount and/or site by more than one personal
wireless service.
EQUIPMENT CABINET: An enclosed shed or box at the base of or near a PWSF mount
within which are housed, among other things, batteries and electrical equipment
(hereinafter referred to as "equipment"). This equipment is connected to the
antenna by cable.
FAA: The federal aviation administration.
FCC: The federal communications commission.
HEIGHT: The height of monopoles and towers shall be measured from natural grade
to the top of all appurtenances. The height of rooftop mounted communication
equipment shall be measured from the roof elevation to the top of all
appurtenances. The height of building mounted communication equipment shall be
from the top of the equipment to natural grade.
MONOPOLE: A facility used exclusively for PWSF mounts and is self-supporting
with a single shaft of steel, concrete or wood.
MOUNT: The ground or the structure to which a PWSF is attached.
PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE FACILITY (PWSF): A facility for the provision of
personal wireless services as defined by the telecommunications act of 1996,
and any amendments thereto. Personal wireless service facilities are composed
of two (2) or more of the following components:
   A.   Antenna;
   B.   Mount;
   C.   Equipment cabinet;
   D.   Wall or security barrier.
SITE: The physical location occupied by a single tower and its accompanying
ground mounted or roof mounted equipment.
TOWER: Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the purpose
of supporting one or more antennas for telephone, radio and similar
communication purposes, including monopole towers. This term includes radio and
television transmission towers, microwave towers, common carrier towers, and
digital and/or cellular telephone towers, alternative tower structures, and the
like. This term also includes the structure and any support thereto. Lattice
type structures or structures which require the use of guywires are strongly
discouraged. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-16-4: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Antennas and towers may be considered as either a principal or an
accessory use. A different existing use of an existing structure on the same
lot shall not preclude the installation of an antenna or tower on such a lot.
   B.   For purposes of determining whether the installation of a tower or
antenna complies with district development regulations, including, but not
limited to, setback requirements, lot coverage requirements and other such
requirements, the dimensions of the entire lot shall control, even though the
antennas or towers may be located on leased parcels within such lot.
   C.   The setback of the communication equipment and/or the accessory
structures shall meet the building setbacks for the zoning district in which it
is located. Towers shall be set back a distance equal to at least one hundred
percent (100%) of the height of the tower from any adjoining lot line.
Facilities that are located on streetlights, traffic signal poles, sixty nine
(69) kilovolt or above, and existing electrical utility poles are exempt from
setback requirements.
   D.   Towers shall be painted or treated to minimize the contrast of the
tower against the horizon. At a tower site, the design of the buildings and
related structures shall use materials, colors, textures, screening and
landscaping that will blend them into the natural setting and surrounding
development.
   E.   If an antenna is installed on a structure other than a tower, the
antenna and supporting electrical and mechanical equipment must be painted or
treated such that they match the color and/or texture of the supporting
structure.
   F.   Rooftop mounted equipment shall be screened from off site views to the
extent possible by solid screen walls or the building parapet. Screening shall
be integrated into and architecturally compatible with the building design.
   G.   Building mounted antennas shall be mounted a minimum of one foot (1')
below the top of the building wall, shall not be extended more than twelve
inches (12") from the face of the building, and shall be either treated or
painted to match the color and texture of the building.
   H.   Towers shall be enclosed by security fencing not less than six feet
(6') in height and no more than eight feet (8') in height and shall be
nonclimbable. Above ground equipment cabinets shall be completely screened from
view by a compatible solid wall or view obscuring fence.
   I.   All equipment shall be unmanned. Equipment storage buildings or
cabinets shall comply with all applicable building codes.
   J.   Any exterior lighting shall be within the walled area and shall be
mounted on poles or on the building wall below the height of the screening
fence or wall. Towers shall not be artificially lighted, unless required by the
FAA or other applicable authority. If lighting is required, the lighting
alternatives and design chosen must cause the least disturbance to the
surrounding views.
   K.   No signs shall be allowed on an antenna, on a tower or on any portion
of the premises leased for wireless communication use, except that each PWSF
shall be identified by a permanently installed plaque or marker, no larger than
one foot by one foot (1' x 1') , clearly identifying the provider's name,
address and emergency phone number.
   L.   All new towers or poles over forty feet (40') in height shall allow for
collocation by other wireless communications providers. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-
2005)
10-16-5: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Wireless communication towers and antennas may be permitted in the I-
1 and I-2 zoning districts, by right, if located on property owned, leased or
under the control of the town of Parker, and with a conditional use permit in
the industrial zoning districts, if not located on property owned, leased or
under the control of the town of Parker.
   B.   Amateur radio towers and antennas are permitted in all single residence
zoning districts, with a conditional use permit, provided:
      1.   Such structures shall not be located in the required front yard, or
required street side side yard, or in front of the front line of the dwelling
or principal building; and
      2.   Such structures shall in no case be located nearer than five feet
(5') to any side or rear property line; and
      3.   Such structures do not exceed a height of fifteen feet (15') within
a required side or rear yard; and
      4.   Such structures do not exceed the maximum building height of the
zoning district in which such structure is located; and
      5.   Not more than two (2) such structures shall be erected per lot or
parcel.
      6.   The tower and antenna shall be retractable. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-16-6: CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS:
The following provisions shall govern the issuance of conditional use permits
for towers and antennas by the town council:
   A.   If a conditional use permit is required, it shall be processed in
accordance with section
10-3-4 of this title.
   B.   In granting a conditional use permit, the town council may impose
conditions to the extent such conditions are necessary to minimize adverse
effects of the proposed tower or antenna on adjoining properties, and to blend
with other similar vertical objects and not be intrusive in its setting or
obtrusive to views and the surrounding landscape.
   C.   When a use permit is granted for a collocation on a facility with an
existing use permit, the action of granting the new use permit shall extend the
existing use permit so that they will expire simultaneously.
   D.   Upon compliance with the requirements of this chapter and stipulations
of the conditional use permit, the building inspector shall issue a permit for
the installation of the PWSF or the amateur tower and/or antenna to be
installed per the approved application. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-16-7: SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All wireless communication facilities shall submit the following
information:
      1.   All PWSF applications will go through the normal preapplication
process as outlined in section
10-3-1 of this title.
      2.   A map of the service area for this facility.
      3.   A scaled site plan indicating the location, type and height of the
proposed facility, mounting style and number of antennas on each facility, on
site land uses and zoning, adjacent land uses and zoning, proposed means of
access, setbacks from property lines, elevation drawings of the proposed
facilities, and any other information deemed by the zoning administrator to be
necessary to assess compliance with this chapter.
      4.   Each applicant for an antenna and/or a tower shall provide the town
with an inventory of its existing towers, antennas, or sites approved for
towers or antennas, that are within the jurisdiction boundaries of the town of
Parker, the town's planning area as determined by the Parker general plan, and
within one mile of the town's border. The inventory shall include specific
information about the location, height, range, design of each antenna and/or
tower, and the owner/operator of the existing facilities, if known. This
inventory shall also include a one year build out plan for all other wireless
communications facilities within the town.
   B.   All new towers or poles shall also provide the following information:
      1.   A map that shows any personal wireless antenna monopoles or towers
within a mile radius of the proposed site that are existing or are currently
under construction.
      2.   Description of any efforts to collocate the proposed facility on one
of the monopoles or towers that currently exists, or is under construction.
Provide engineering information or letters from the owners of the existing
monopoles describing why collocation is not a possibility.
      3.   Description of detailed efforts to locate the proposed facility on
an existing vertical element, such as a building or a pole, that is comparable
to the height of the proposed facility. Include a map of the sites.
      4.   The applicant shall demonstrate that the engineering of a proposed
new tower or pole and the placement of ground mounted facilities will
accommodate other providers' facilities. The owner of the tower or pole and the
property on which it is located must certify that the tower or pole is
available for use by another wireless telecommunications provider on a
reasonable and nondiscriminatory basis.
      5.   Description of efforts to blend personal wireless facilities with
the surrounding area, including the process for arriving at the color for the
proposed pole or tower. Describe the efforts to minimize the diameter of the
pole and the mass of the tower supporting the proposed facility.
      6.   Illustrate the method of fencing and the finished texture and color
and, if applicable, the method of camouflage and illumination.
   C.   All new rooftop and building mounted PWSF shall also provide the
following information:
      1.   Description of the type, height, mounting style, number of antennas,
and method of screening or blending the facility with the building.
      2.   Description of the process for arriving at the color of the personal
wireless facility and the options that were explored for screening the personal
wireless facility.
      3.   Description of the alternative structures used and any structural
alterations that may be required to accommodate the PWSF, such as, but not
limited to, elements that camouflage or conceal the presence of antennas or
poles, if a pole is utilized to support the personal wireless facility. (Ord.
03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-16-8: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Communication towers and antennas designed and used specifically for
public safety purposes shall be reviewed by the zoning administrator and are
exempt from the conditional use permit process. Communication towers and
antennas approved for public safety purposes and which are also utilized by
commercial communication companies shall be considered commercial communication
towers and are subject to approval of a conditional use permit; if applicable.
(Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
CHAPTER 17
NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
10-17-1: Purpose
10-17-2: Limitation On Buildings
10-17-3: Limitation On Uses
10-17-4: Limitation On Lots
10-17-5: Limitation On Signs
10-17-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the regulation and limit
the development and continued existence of nonconforming buildings, uses, lots,
and signs. These regulations are designed to protect the rights of legally
existing nonconforming buildings, uses, lots, and signs under specific
conditions and within certain parameters. It is also the intent of this chapter
to curtail substantial investment in nonconformities and to bring about their
eventual improvement or elimination in order to preserve the integrity of this
title, promote adopted plans and policies, and enhance the character of the
town.
   B.   Any use or activity lawfully conducted under county zoning regulations
at the effective date of annexation or under previous zoning regulations in
effect at the adoption hereof, or any amendment, shall be considered a legal
nonconforming use under this title. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-17-2: LIMITATION ON BUILDINGS:
A legal nonconforming building (which shall also include structures or fences)
may continue only in the manner and to the extent that it existed at the time
of such enactment, amendment, or annexation, subject to the following
provisions:
   A.   Routine repairs or maintenance of legal nonconforming buildings is
permitted.
   B.   Any legal nonconforming building, which has been damaged by fire,
windstorm, flood, or some similar abnormal and identifiable event or decay, for
which the cost of restoring the structure to its original condition does not
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the assessed valuation, may be reconstructed and
used as before; provided, that a building permit is secured, reconstruction is
started within six (6) months from the date of damage, and such reconstruction
is diligently pursued to completion. The zoning administrator may determine
that such delay in reconstruction was caused by unforeseen circumstances beyond
the control of the owner of the premises and permit a reasonable extension of
time for reconstruction.
   C.   Any legal nonconforming building, which has been damaged by fire,
windstorm, flood, or some similar abnormal and identifiable event or decayed to
an extent exceeding fifty percent (50%) of its most recent, predamage
valuation, as determined by a qualified appraiser, and as approved by the
zoning administrator, any repair, replacement, or reconstruction of the
development on the site shall lose any legal nonconforming status and may not
be restored, reconstructed, replaced or used except in conformity with the
provisions of the zoning district it is located in and this title.
   D.   A legal nonconforming building which ceases to be used for a period of
three hundred sixty five (365) consecutive days shall lose all nonconforming
status and shall be retrofitted to comply with all applicable building codes
and this title.
   E.   This title shall not prohibit the continued occupancy of a manufactured
home located and occupied as a private residence within the town at the time of
adoption hereof which may not be located within a manufactured home overlay
district or which may not be in compliance with the design standards of section
10-10B-6 of this title. Any existing manufactured home that is not in
compliance with the design standards of section
10-10B-6 of this title at the time of the adoption hereof shall be brought into
compliance, with said design standards, as additions or alterations to the
structures are requested. Any existing manufactured home, even if it is not
located within a manufactured home overlay district, may be replaced in its
entirety only with a manufactured home that is in compliance with all of the
design standards of section
10-10B-6 of this title and other provisions of this title. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-
2005)
10-17-3: LIMITATION ON USES:
A legal nonconforming use may continue only in the manner and to the extent
that it existed at the time of such enactment, amendment, or annexation,
subject to the following provisions:
   A.   A legal nonconforming use which ceases to be used for a period of three
hundred sixty five (365) consecutive days, or is replaced by a conforming use,
shall lose all nonconforming status.
   B.   A nonconforming use shall not be changed to a different nonconforming
use. This shall not prevent a name change or change in ownership of the same
nonconforming use. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
10-17-4: LIMITATION ON LOTS:
   A.   Routine maintenance of a legal nonconforming lot is permitted.
   B.   This title shall not prohibit the continued occupancy of a building
that has been legally constructed on a nonconforming lot.
   C.   Any legal lot existing at the time of the enactment hereof, or any
amendment, which does not conform with the required lot area may be used for
any use permitted by right in that zoning district; provided, that the lot does
not constitute more than a twenty percent (20%) reduction in the required lot
area, and all other applicable regulations of this title are complied with.
   D.   If the application of this title to a parcel, which was a legally
constituted lot on which development would have been permitted prior to the
adoption date hereof, would prevent the development of at least one single
residential dwelling unit, the parcel may be developed with one single
residential dwelling pursuant to all other provisions of this title. (Ord. 03-
2005, 9-6-2005)
10-17-5: LIMITATION ON SIGNS:
   A.   Legal Nonconforming Signs:
      1.   "Legal nonconforming sign(s)" shall mean a sign that is lawfully
existing at the time of the enactment hereof which does not conform to the
regulations as specified in this title.
      2.   A legal nonconforming sign may continue to be utilized in perpetuity
only in the manner and to the extent that it existed at the time of the
adoption hereof or any amendment thereto.
      3.   A legal nonconforming sign may not be altered in any manner not in
conformance with this title. This does not apply to the normal repair,
maintenance or changing of copy on the sign, provided that structural
alterations are not required as part of the repairs, maintenance, or changing
of copy.
      4.   Any sign that becomes nonconforming subsequent to the effective date
hereof, either by reason of annexation to the town or amendment to this title,
shall be subject to the provisions of this title.
      5.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, legal
nonconforming signs that are located on a parcel of property which is severed
from a larger parcel of property and acquired by a public entity for public use
by condemnation, purchase or dedication may be relocated on the remaining
parcel without extinguishing the legal nonconforming status of that sign,
provided that the nonconforming sign:
         a.   Is not increased in area or height;
         b.   Remains structurally unchanged except for reasonable repairs or
alterations;
         c.   Is placed in the same relative position on the remaining property
that it occupied prior to the relocation; and
         d.   Is relocated in a manner so as to comply with all applicable
safety requirements.
   B.   Signs For A Legal Nonconforming Use:
      1.   New or additional signs for a nonconforming use shall not be
permitted.
      2.   A nonconforming sign for a nonconforming use which ceases to be used
for a period of three hundred sixty five (365) consecutive days or is suspended
by a conforming use, shall be considered a prohibited sign and shall be removed
or brought into conformance upon establishment of a conforming use.
   C.   Alteration Or Removal Of Nonconforming Signs:
      1.   A nonconforming sign structure shall not be reerected, relocated or
replaced unless it is brought into compliance with the requirements of this
title, except as provided for in the above subsection A5 of this section.
      2.   Any construction permit which invokes certificate of occupancy
requirements shall specify and require that any nonconforming sign located
within the boundaries of the development site authorized by said permit shall
be brought into conformance with the provisions of this title; provided, that
if the nonconforming sign is a type of sign that is prohibited under chapter 15
of this title, it shall be removed.
      3.   Any nonconforming sign that is damaged or allowed to deteriorate to
such an extent that the cost of repair or restoration is more than fifty
percent (50%) of the cost of reconstruction shall either be removed or be
rebuilt in full conformity with this title.
   D.   Signs Rendered Discontinued:
      1.   Sign structures which remain vacant, unoccupied, devoid of any
message, or display a message pertaining to a time, event or proposal that no
longer applies shall be deemed to be discontinued.
      2.   Any sign which is located on property which becomes vacant and
unoccupied for a period of three hundred sixty five (365) consecutive days,
shall be deemed to be discontinued.
      3.   A sign whose use has been deemed discontinued is prohibited and
shall be removed by the owner of the sign or owner of the premises. (Ord. 03-
2005, 9-6-2005)
CHAPTER 18
APPENDICES
SECTION:
10-18-1: Appendix A; Definitions
10-18-2: Appendix B; Low Water Use/Drought Tolerant Plant List For Right Of Way
Landscaping
10-18-1: APPENDIX A; DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of carrying out the intent of this title, certain terms or
words used herein shall be interpreted or defined as follows:
   A.   Words used in the present tense include the future; words used in the
singular include the plural; and words in the plural include the singular.
   B.   The word "shall" is mandatory.
   C.   The word "may" is permissive.
   D.   The word "person" includes an individual, firm, copartnership, joint
venture, corporations, associations, estate, trust, receiver, and/or any other
group or combination acting as a singular entity, including the federal
government, another town, county, or school district, except as exempt by law.
   E.   The following words or terms when applied in this title may be used
interchangeably unless contrary to the circumstances: lot, plat, parcel or
premises; and "building" applies to the word "structure". (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-
2005)
   F.   The following additional words and phrases shall, for the purpose of
this title, have the following meanings:
    ABUTTING: Having property or zoning district lines in common. Contact at
boundary with street or alley.
   ACCESS OR ACCESSWAY: The place, means, or way by which pedestrians and
vehicles shall have safe, adequate and usable ingress and egress to a property
or use as required by this title.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING: A detached building, situated on the same lot or
building site, the use of which is customarily incidental to that of a
principal use of the main building or premises.
   ACCESSORY USE: A subordinate use of a building, other structure, or land
that is clearly incidental to the use of the primary building, other structure,
or use of the land and is conducted on the same lot with the primary building,
other structure or use of land.
   ADJACENT: Nearby, but not necessarily touching.
   ADJOINING: Touching at some point.
   ADMINISTRATIVE DECISION: Any decision on a development application made by
an authorized town employee pursuant to this title.
   ADULT ORIENTED USE: Which shall include the following:
     Adult Live Entertainment Establishments: An establishment that offers live
entertainment where patrons can see "specified anatomical areas". Such
establishments may feature topless female or bottomless dancers, go-go dancers,
exotic dancers, strippers, or other similar entertainers.
     Adult Only Massage Establishment: An establishment in which is carried on
the business of providing any service or massage or body manipulation,
including exercises and heat and light treatments of the body, and all forms
and methods of therapy and which regularly excludes all minors.
     Adult Retail Establishment: A commercial establishment which, as one of
its principal business purposes, offers for sale or rental, for any form of
consideration, any one or more of the following:
      1.   Merchandise with a predominant emphasis on the display, depiction,
description, or relation to "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas". Merchandise includes, but is not limited to, motion
pictures, audio and/or videocassettes, digital video discs (DVDs) and similar
technology, films, books, magazines, posters, cards, pictures, periodicals,
instruments, devices, equipment, paraphernalia, or other similar products,
excluding condoms and other birth control and disease prevention products.
A commercial establishment may have other principal business purposes that do
not involve the offering for sale or rental of the above listed items and still
be categorized as an adult retail establishment. Such other business purposes
will not exempt such commercial establishment from being categorized as an
adult retail establishment so long as one of its principal business purposes is
offering for sale or rental for consideration the above listed items.
      2.   Regularly excludes all minors from the premises or section thereof
because of the sexually explicit nature of the items sold, rented, or displayed
therein.
     Adult Theater: An open air drive-in theater or an enclosed building open
to the public, not including private guest quarters of hotels and motels:
      1.   Which is regularly used for presenting motion pictures, films,
videotapes, slides, transparencies, computer simulations, or television
transmissions on a screen or monitor which predominantly describe or relate to
specified sexual activities or are characterized by a predominant emphasis on
matter depicting, describing, or relating to specified anatomical areas; and
      2.   Regularly excludes all minors.
   AGRICULTURAL ANIMALS: The following animals are animals, other than
household pets, that are considered accessory agricultural animals to an
agricultural use, whether kept and maintained for production and sale, family
food production, education or for personal enjoyment. Agricultural animals are
classified as large and small animals. Swine and potbelly pigs will not be
permitted in any district, except for a limited time in conjunction with a
Future Farmers of America (FFA) project, limited to one such animal; provided,
that it is kept in a manner that does not create a nuisance for adjacent
neighbors or land uses. Examples of the types of animals in the different
categories include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Large animals: horses, burros, donkeys and mules, miniature horses,
cattle, sheep, goats, llamas, and ratites.
      2.   Small animals: rabbits, chinchillas, and poultry.
   AGRICULTURAL BUILDING: A structure designed and constructed to house farm
implements, hay, grain, poultry, livestock or other horticultural products.
This structure shall not be a place of human habitation or a place used by the
public.
   ALLEY: A public or private thoroughfare, other than a street, which affords
a secondary means of vehicular access to abutting property and not intended for
general traffic circulation.
   ALTERATION: Any architectural, structural, or use change to a building that
requires a permit under the building code of the town.
   AMENDMENT: A change in the wording, application, or substance of this title,
or an addition or deletion or change in the zoning district boundaries or
classifications of the zoning map.
   AMATEUR RADIO TOWER: A freestanding or building mounted structure, including
any base, tower or pole, antenna and appurtenances, intended for airway
communication purposes by a person holding a valid amateur radio (HAM) license
issued by the federal communications commission.
   ANTIQUE SHOP: A retail business specializing in the sale of merchandise made
in, or typical of, a previous era. Typical merchandise includes, but is not
limited to, furniture, silverware, glassware, and other collectibles. Items
shall not be donated for resale, but may be displayed on consignment.
   ARS: Is the abbreviation for the Arizona Revised Statutes.
   ARCHAEOLOGICALLY SIGNIFICANT: A site which has revealed or has the potential
of revealing important information regarding the lifestyles of prehistoric
peoples and/or cultures which occupied the town and surrounding region in
prehistoric and historic times.
   ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY: See definition of Group Home.
   ATTACHED BUILDING: Any structure sealed from the elements with a permanent
slab foundation and architecturally integrated with the main structure.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR (GENERAL): Servicing of motor vehicles including tire
repair, battery changing, engine rebuilding and transmission repair, storage of
merchandise and supplies related to the servicing of motor vehicles, sale of
lubricants, automobile washing and lubrication, but excluding body work and
painting of vehicles, or other similar activities.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION: A convenience use having pumps and storage tanks
or other facilities from which gasoline, diesel or alternative fuels are
dispensed into motor vehicles.
   AWNING: An architectural projection that provides weather protection,
identity or decoration and is wholly supported by the building to which it is
attached. An awning is comprised of a lightweight, rigid skeleton structure
over which a covering is attached.
   BAR OR COCKTAIL LOUNGE: An establishment whose primary business is the
serving of alcoholic beverages to the public for consumption on the premises
and where food may be available for consumption as an accessory use.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT: A dwelling in which the occupants of the
dwelling provide, for compensation, the short term lodging and meals for
guests, occupying not more than four (4) guestrooms, located within the same
principal dwelling. Any dwelling in which more than four (4) guestrooms are
provided shall be deemed a "hotel".
   BOARD: The town of Parker board of adjustment.
   BUILDABLE AREA: The portion of a lot, which is within the envelope formed by
the required setbacks or building envelope, if applicable.
   BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls for the
shelter, use, occupancy, or enclosure of persons, animals, or chattel or
property of any kind, with the exception of doghouses, playhouses and similar
structures.
   BUILDING AREA: The total areas, taken on a horizontal plane at the mean
grade level, of the principal buildings and all accessory buildings, exclusive
of uncovered porches, steps, roof overhangs, and balconies.
   BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured from the natural grade to
the highest point of the coping of a flat roof, or to the highest point of a
mansard roof, or to the highest gable of a pitch or hip roof.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL: An employee of the town authorized to issue building
permits and certificates of occupancy and to administer all applicable
construction codes.
   BUILDING PERMIT: An authorization to construct, repair, alter, or add onto a
building or structure as issued by the building official and authorized by the
zoning administrator.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A building or structure in which the principal or
dominant use of the property is conducted.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE: The required minimum distance, as prescribed by this
title, between the property line and the closest point of any building or
structure.
   CARPORT: A roofed structure which may be attached or unattached to the
principal structure providing space for the storage of motor vehicles, at least
two (2) sides of which shall be at least fifty percent (50%) open. Enclosed
storage facilities may be provided as part of a carport.
   CHURCH: A permanently affixed building where one of the principal uses is
for religious worship.
   CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT: A development design technique that concentrates
development/buildings in specific areas on a site, rather than distributing
them evenly, thereby allowing the remaining land to be retained as natural open
space for the preservation of sensitive lands, parks, and public open space
areas.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/aafe5f4495f34483a0a5aa27eb6ffd889002f0d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1028.gif]
 
 
   COMMISSION: The planning and zoning commission of the town of Parker.
   CONDITIONAL USE: A use permitted in a particular zoning district only upon a
showing that such use in a specified location will comply with all the
conditions and standards for the location or operation of such use as specified
in this title.
   CONVENIENCE MARKET: A small scale retail establishment the primary purpose
of which is the sale of fresh or packaged food, dry goods, and nonprescription
medicine primarily to customers from the immediate neighborhood or area. A
convenience market shall not exceed five thousand (5,000) square feet of gross
floor area.
   CORRAL: A fenced area for the confinement of large agricultural animals.
   COUNCIL: The town council of the town of Parker.
   DAYCARE CENTER: Any facility in which the care, supervision and guidance of
a child or children are regularly provided for compensation for more than six
(6) children not related to the proprietor. The childcare center shall meet all
requirements for certification by the appropriate state agencies and
departments.
   DAYCARE, HOME BASED: Any single residence dwelling in which childcare is
regularly provided for compensation for no more than six (6) children not
related to the proprietor provided there shall be no more than a total of ten
(10) children and all required state licensing is obtained.
   DEMOLISH: To pull down or tear down a structure without regard to
maintaining the visual or structural integrity of its various components.
   DENSITY: A ratio expressing the number of dwelling units, lots or spaces per
acre. For the purpose of calculating density the equation shall be as follows:
      D    =   du
                                       
            Ac - (CI + S + Ar + P)
      Where:
      D   =   Density
      du   =   Total number of dwelling units
      Ac   =   Total site area (acres)
      CI   =   Total commercial and industrial land (acres)
      S   =   Reserved but undedicated school sites (acres)
      Ar   =   Arterial rights of way (acres)
      P   =   Park and open space (acres)
    DENSITY TRANSFER: Permitted unused allowable densities in one area to be
used in another area of the same development. (Examples: Within a subdivision
clustering of homes on smaller lots to retain larger open space areas; within
the floodplain area to cluster homes at a higher elevation to retain
undisturbed floodplains.)
   DESIGNATION: The process through which a site, structure, objects or
district is officially recognized as worthy of preservation.
   DEVELOPER: A person, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
corporation, or entity who desires to improve or otherwise engage in any
development of property within the town of Parker, including the owner of the
property and any agents acting on behalf of the owner.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE RESIDENCE: A building or buildings containing two (2) or
more housekeeping units.
   DWELLING, SINGLE RESIDENCE: A building containing only one housekeeping
unit.
   DWELLING UNIT: A room or group of rooms within a building containing
provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation which is
designed to be occupied exclusively by a single housekeeping unit.
   EXHIBIT: Any graphic representation noted as "exhibit" within this title,
that is used to illustrate and exemplify certain standards and regulations
contained within the language of this title. If an exhibit and text of this
title conflict, the written text of this title shall control.
   FACTORY BUILT BUILDING: A residential or nonresidential building including a
dwelling unit or habitable room thereof which is either wholly or in
substantial part manufactured at an off site location to be assembled on site,
except that it does not include a "manufactured home", "recreational vehicle"
or "mobile home" as defined elsewhere in this section.
   FARM/AGRICULTURE: An agricultural use, and all accessory structures
customarily associated with such use, where the growing and harvesting of
field, tree or bush crops including flowers takes place, which may or may not
be owner occupied, but which may utilize employees who are not owners or family
of the owners.
   FENCE OR WALL HEIGHT: Where a fence or wall faces a public street, highway
or alley, height shall be measured from the top of the curb, or where no curb
exists, the centerline of the street, highway, or alley. Where a fence or wall
is between two (2) properties, the height shall be the average measured from
each side of the base of the fence as established at the time of final grading.
A retaining wall will be counted as part of the total wall or fence height
where the minimum horizontal distance between the retaining wall and the fence
is less than the average height of the retaining wall. Where the minimum
horizontal distance between the retaining wall and the fence is greater than
the average height of the retaining wall, the fence or wall height shall be
measured from the base of the fence or wall.
   FLOODPLAIN: Lowlands adjoining the channel of a river, stream or
watercourse, lake or other body of water, which have been or may be inundated
by floodwater, and those other areas subject to flooding. A floodplain may be
that area further defined by the La Paz County flood control district and as
shown on federal emergency management agency (FEMA) flood insurance rate maps
(FIRM) or an approved flood control study.
   FLOODWAY: The channel of a wash or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the 100-year flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot (1').
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS (GFA): The combined gross area of all of the floors within
the exterior walls of a building. Included shall be any basement floor,
interior balconies and mezzanines, elevator shafts and stairwells and enclosed
porches. The floor area of accessory uses and of accessory buildings on the
same lot shall be included.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR): The ratio of the floor area of all structures on a
parcel to the net lot area of the parcel expressed as a percent or decimal.
      FAR   =   total floor area
            total net lot area
    FRONTAGE: The frontage of a parcel of land is that distance where a
property line is common with a road right of way.
   GENERAL PLAN: A comprehensive plan pursuant to Arizona Revised Statutes
section 9-461.05, providing for the future growth and improvement of the town
of Parker and for the general location of streets, schools and recreation
areas, public building sites, and other physical development, and including any
part of such plan separately adopted and any amendment to such plan, or parts
thereof.
   GRADE, FINISH: Final elevation of the ground surface conforming to the
approved grading plans.
   GRADE, NATURAL: Elevation of the natural or undisturbed ground surface prior
to any grading operation. Building elevations for purposes of height
limitations shall be measured from natural grade.
   GROCERY STORE: A retail establishment primarily selling food, as well as
other convenience and household goods, which occupies a space of not less than
four thousand (4,000) square feet and not more than thirty thousand (30,000)
square feet.
   GROUP HOME: Dwelling unit shared as their primary residence by handicapped
and/or elderly persons living together as a single housekeeping unit in which
staff persons provide on site care, meals, supervision, and other support
services for the residents. Group homes shall not include nursing homes,
shelter care facilities, recovery homes, community correctional facilities, or
homes for the developmentally disabled as regulated by the Arizona Revised
Statutes.
   GRUBBING: The elimination of roots from the ground by digging or pulling.
   GUESTHOUSE: Living quarters for guests, or servants on the premises in an
accessory building or attached to the principal residence. A guesthouse shall
not be rented, and/or otherwise used for income purposes.
   HOME OCCUPATION: A business activity conducted as an accessory use to a
dwelling unit.
   HOTEL: A building designed for occupancy by persons for which lodging or
boarding is provided and offered to the public for compensation and in which
ingress and egress to and from all guestrooms are made through an inside lobby
or office. A hotel shall customarily provide housekeeping, bellhop, laundry,
and on site recreation services.
   HOUSEKEEPING UNIT: Any number of related persons living together within a
single dwelling unit; provided, however, that it shall not include a group of
more than five (5) persons who are unrelated by blood, marriage or adoption.
   INDIVIDUAL: Any private individual, tenant, lessee, owner, or any commercial
entity including, but not limited to, companies, partnerships, joint ventures
or corporations.
   JUNK AUTOMOBILE: Any vehicle missing one or more body parts; or is incapable
of operating under its own power; or is missing any wheels; or has missing or
severely shattered glass which prohibits safe operation; or has one or more
flat tires for a period of seventy two (72) or more hours.
   JUNKYARD: The use of a lot, or portion thereof, for the storage, keeping,
baling, packing, disassembly, exchange or handling of, including, but not
limited to, junk, scrap iron and other metals, paper, rags, rubber tires,
bottles, dismantled or wrecked automobiles or other motor vehicles or
machinery, but does not include uses confined entirely within enclosed
buildings.
   KENNEL: Any establishment, pursuant to this code or Arizona Revised
Statutes, at which dogs, cats, or other small animals are either privately or
commercially cared for, bred, boarded, or trained.
   LOADING SPACE: An off street space or berth on the same lot with a building,
or contiguous to a group of buildings, for the temporary parking of a
commercial vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials.
   LOT: A single piece of property located in a recorded subdivision, having
frontage on a publicly dedicated and accepted street or a private road approved
by the town, which is described and denoted as such. A lot also includes a
parcel of land, shown in the records of the La Paz County assessor's office,
divided to be used separately from other parcels of property by description, as
on a recorded survey map, or by metes and bounds, for purposes of sale, lease,
or separate use in a legal manner pursuant to all state, county, and town
requirements for the development and proposed use of that property.
   LOT AREA: The area of a horizontal plane within the lot lines of a lot but
not including any area in a public way.
   LOT, CORNER: A lot located at the intersection of two (2) or more streets.
   LOT COVERAGE: The percentage of the area of a lot that is occupied by all
buildings or other covered structures using the roof outline for all outer
dimensions.
   LOT DEPTH: The horizontal length of a straight line connecting the midpoints
of the front and rear lot lines; and for triangular shaped lots, the shortest
horizontal distance between the front lot line and a line within the lot,
parallel to and at a maximum distance from the front lot line, having a length
of not less than ten feet (10').
   LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT, KEY: A lot adjacent to a corner lot having its side lot line in common
with the rear lot line of the corner lot and fronting on the street that forms
the side boundary of the corner lot.
   LOT LINE: A line dividing one lot from another or from a street or any
public place.
   LOT LINE, FRONT: In the case of an interior lot, a line separating the lot
from the street right of way. In the case of a corner lot, the narrower of the
two (2) lot lines adjoining a street right of way.
   LOT LINE, REAR: A lot line which is opposite and most distant from the front
lot line; except, that in the absence of a rear lot line as is the case of the
triangular shaped lot, the rear lot line may be considered as a line within the
lot, parallel to and at a maximum distance from the front lot line, having a
length of not less than ten feet (10').
   LOT LINE, SIDE: The boundary of a lot that is not a front lot line or a rear
lot line.
   LOT, THROUGH: A lot having a part of opposite lot lines abutting two (2)
streets, and which is not a corner lot (also known as a "double frontage lot").
On such lot, both lot lines are front, except that where a nonaccess easement
has been established on such a lot, the front lot line shall be considered as
that lot line most distant from the lot line containing the nonaccess easement.
   LOT WIDTH: For rectangular lots, lots having side lot lines not parallel,
and lots on the outside of the curve of a street, the distance between side lot
lines measured at the required minimum front yard setback line on a line
parallel to the street or street chord; and for lots on the inside of the curve
of a street, the distance between side lot lines measured thirty feet (30')
behind the required minimum front yard setback line on a line parallel to the
street or street chord.
   MANUFACTURED HOME: A residential dwelling built in accordance with and
certified as a manufactured home under the federal manufactured housing
construction and safety standards act of 1974, which became effective June 15,
1976, and the laws of the state of Arizona office of manufactured housing.
   MANUFACTURED HOME LAND LEASE DEVELOPMENT: A residential development,
typified by single ownership of the land within the development, approved
pursuant to this title for placement of manufactured homes used for residential
purposes.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE: A plot of ground within a manufactured home land
lease development designed for the accommodation of one manufactured home with
an annual lease.
   MASTER PLAN DEVELOPMENT: A development application which provides
information and graphics meeting the requirements of this title, and an overall
master plan meeting the requirements of the subdivision ordinance, for the
purpose of implementing an integrated development scheme for all phases of the
proposed development.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA: "Marijuana" for "medical use" as those terms are defined
in Arizona Revised Statutes section 36-2801.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA CULTIVATION LOCATION: Any facility, building, or location
that grows, cultivates or processes medical marijuana, including, but not
limited to, the following: 1) a medical marijuana dispensary that cultivates
medical marijuana on its site; 2) the one additional location, if any, duly
identified pursuant to Arizona Revised Statutes section 36-2806(E) during the
process of registering a medical marijuana dispensary where marijuana will be
cultivated for sale at a medical marijuana dispensary; 3) any location for the
cultivation of marijuana by a qualifying patient or designated caregiver
permitted under Arizona Revised Statutes section 36-2801 et seq.; and 4)
includes a facility that incorporates or processes medical marijuana into a
consumable or edible product.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY: A nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary as
defined in Arizona Revised Statutes section 36-2801 and duly registered and
certified pursuant to Arizona Revised Statutes section 36-2804.
   MOBILE HOME: A residential dwelling that was fabricated or built prior to
enactment of the federal manufactured housing construction and safety
standards.
   MODULAR HOME: A structure intended for residential use and manufactured off
site in accord with the uniform building code (UBC) or international building
code (IBC) as adopted by the town of Parker. (See definition of Factory Built
Building.)
   MOTEL: A building or group of buildings containing guestrooms or rooming
units, each of which maintains a separate entrance leading directly from the
outside of the building. Such building or group of buildings being designed,
intended, or used primarily for the accommodation of automobile travelers, and
providing automobile parking conveniently located on the premises. Motels
include motor courts, motor lodges and tourist courts, but not mobile home
parks or recreational vehicle parks.
   NET LOT AREA: The area of a lot or parcel excluding all dedicated streets,
alleys, roadway or alley easements.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING: A building or portion thereof which was lawful when
established but which does not conform to a subsequently established district
or district regulations.
   NONCONFORMING LOT: A parcel of land having less area, frontage or dimensions
than required in the district in which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING USE: A use of land that:
      1.   Legally existed before its current zoning or land use category
designation; and
      2.   Has been maintained continuously since the time the applicable
regulations governing the land changed; and
      3.   Because of subsequent changes, does not conform to this title or
general plan provisions that now govern the land.
   NURSERIES, RETAIL: The use of the land, buildings, or structures for the
sales of plant materials, landscape materials, gardening supplies and
fertilizer, excluding production of plant materials.
   NURSING HOME: A nursing home is an extended healthcare facility licensed by
the state of Arizona which provides lodging, meals, personal services, and
skilled nursing and medical care on a long term basis to individuals who,
because of advanced age, chronic illness, or infirmity, are unable to care for
themselves.
   OPEN SPACE: Any parcel or area of land unimproved or improved and set aside,
dedicated, designated, or reserved for the public or private use and enjoyment.
   OPEN SPACE, COMMON: Open space usable by all people within a certain
development and such area is owned in common by all property owners in that
development.
   OPEN SPACE, NATURAL AREA: Dedicated open space areas required for the
preservation and conservation of plant and animal life, including habitat for
fish and wildlife species; and areas required for ecological, cultural and
other scientific study purposes for long term public benefit.
   OPEN SPACE, PUBLIC: An open space area conveyed or otherwise dedicated to a
municipality, municipal agency, school district, state or county agency, or
other public body for recreational or conservational uses.
   OPEN SPACE, USABLE: Land which can be actively used by people. This could
include landscaped or hardscaped plazas, paseo and promenades, fountains and
sitting areas meant to provide an open park like atmosphere. Also playgrounds,
golf courses, bicycle trails (but not bike lanes), pedestrian trails (not
residential sidewalks), and trail heads. Usable open space does not include
parking areas and vacant or undeveloped lots.
   OUTDOOR LIGHTING: See
chapter 14 of this title.
   OUTDOOR SALES: The display of products or services, which are intended for
retail or wholesale purchase not within a completely enclosed building.
   OUTDOOR STORAGE: The location of any goods, wares, merchandise, commodities,
junk, debris, or any other item outside of a completely enclosed building for a
continuous period longer than twenty four (24) hours.
   PARK MODEL RECREATIONAL UNIT: A larger unit built on a single chassis
mounted on wheels, which may be removed, designed to facilitate occasional
relocation, with living quarters for a temporary residence or seasonal use, and
must be connected to those utilities necessary for the operation of installed
fixtures and appliances. It has a gross floor area, including lofts, not
exceeding five hundred forty (540) square feet in the setup mode and has a
width greater than eight feet six inches (8'6") in the transit mode. Park model
units always require special travel permits and tow vehicle.
   PARK(S): A public tract of land that contains a mix of active and passive
recreation facilities including tot lots, defined and improved play field and/
or sport court areas, and picnic/seating/shade areas that are landscaped/
hardscaped in a pleasing manner.
   PLANNED AREA DEVELOPMENT (PAD): A development of a minimum forty (40) or
more contiguous acres, as specified by this title, in which flexibility can be
sought in the zoning standards, in order to encourage more creativity and
sustainable design, thereby providing usable open space within and about the
development and enhancing the residential character of the town. Planned area
developments shall be subject to planning commission and town council approval.
   PLANT NURSERIES AND GREENHOUSES: The use of the land, buildings, or
structures for the growth and production of flowers, plants and trees for
transplanting or sale. It may also include, as accessory to the above
activities, the sale of materials commonly used for landscaping purposes, such
as soil, rock, bark, mulch and other materials determined by the zoning
administrator to be landscaping materials.
   PRINCIPAL USE: The main or primary use on any lot or parcel that establishes
the basic land use characteristics of the property, as opposed to an accessory
use. In some instances, a property may have more than one principal use.
   PRODUCE STAND (FARMERS MARKET): A temporary open air stand or place for the
seasonal selling of agricultural produce. A produce stand must be portable and
capable of being dismantled or removed from the sales site.
   PROTECTED DEVELOPMENT RIGHT: The right to undertake and complete the
development and use of property under the terms and conditions of a protected
development right plan, without compliance with subsequent changes in zoning
regulations and development standards during the term of the protected
development right, except as provided by Arizona Revised Statutes section 9-
1204.
   PROTECTED DEVELOPMENT RIGHT PLAN: A development plan identified as a
protected development right plan at the time of the landowner's submission,
that, if approved by the council, grants to the landowner a protected
development right to undertake and complete development and use of the property
as shown thereon for a specified period of time.
   RANCH: An area of not less than five (5) contiguous acres used for the
keeping of agricultural animals, along with necessary accessory uses and
limited crop production. Allowed ranch uses shall include equine boarding,
breeding, training, and lessons; the sale of ranch animals; 4-H and other youth
related activities. Allowed ranch uses do not include dairies; concentrated
animal feeding operations, liveries; the retail sale of hay; feed or tack; or
equine activities open to the general public.
   RANCH, COMMERCIAL: An area not less than ten (10) contiguous acres which may
be open to the general public and may be used for the following equine uses:
polo fields; riding arenas used for scheduled public or club events or
activities such as barrel racing, bull riding, cutting, gymkhanas, roping, team
penning or other rodeo related activities. Commercial ranch uses do not include
dairies; concentrated animal feeding operations, liveries; the retail sale of
hay, feed or tack; or livestock auctions. A commercial ranch requires a
"conditional use permit".
   RECREATIONAL FACILITIES, INDOOR: Establishments providing indoor amusement
or recreation. Typical uses include martial arts studios, billiard and pool
halls, electronic and coin operated game rooms, bowling alleys, skating rinks,
and health and fitness establishments.
   RECREATIONAL FACILITIES, OUTDOOR: Long term facilities providing outdoor
amusement and entertainment. Typical uses include miniature golf, skateboard
parks, amusement parks, go- cart race tracks, and batting cages.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicular type of unit, forty feet (40') or less in
length and eight feet (8') or less in width, primarily designed for temporary
living quarters, recreation, camping, or travel use, which either:
      1.   Contains its own motive power as in the case of motor homes, mini-
motor homes, or recreational vans;
      2.   Is drawn by another vehicle as in the case of travel trailers, tent
trailers, camper trailers, or watercraft on boat trailers; or
      3.   Is mounted on another vehicle as in the case of truck campers.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: An integrated development, in accordance with the
provisions of this title, where recreational vehicles are used for temporary
residential purposes.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE SPACE: A parcel of land which is designated and
intended for the accommodation of one recreational vehicle on a short term
basis.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION: An elevation one foot (1') above the base flood
elevation.
   RELOCATED DWELLING UNITS: Either relocated site built or factory built
structures must meet current IBC or UBC codes for on site work when placed at
the new location. If the structure does not meet IBC or UBC codes it will not
be allowed.
   RESORT: A building or group of buildings containing guestrooms, providing
outdoor recreational activities such as golf, tennis, horseback riding or
swimming for guests. A resort may provide services customarily furnished by a
hotel including restaurant, bar and convention facilities. A resort may contain
dwelling units in conjunction with guestrooms.
   RETAIL, BIG BOX: A singular retail or wholesale user who occupies no less
than eighty thousand (80,000) square feet, but not more than one hundred fifty
thousand (150,000) square feet, of a gross floor area, typically requires high
parking to building ratios, and/or has a regional sales market. The gross floor
area shall include any associated tenant spaces having common access within the
confines of the primary use. It shall also include any outside area, which
provides associated services to the public such as, but not limited to, outdoor
merchandise display, garden center or snack bar. This definition does not
extend to industrial land uses.
   RETAIL, LARGE SCALE: A singular retail or wholesale user who occupies no
less than thirty thousand (30,000) square feet, but not more than eighty
thousand (80,000) square feet, of a gross floor area, typically requires high
parking to building ratios, and/or has a communitywide sales market. The gross
floor area shall include any associated tenant spaces having common access
within the confines of the primary use. It shall also include any outside area,
which provides associated services to the public such as, but not limited to,
outdoor merchandise display, garden center or snack bar. This definition does
not extend to industrial land uses.
   SATELLITE DISH ANTENNA: A parabolic antenna designed to receive
electromagnetic transmissions from a satellite.
   SATELLITE EARTH STATION: A device consisting of an antenna and reflector,
having any dimension of more than one and one-half meters (11/2 m), and is
solid or open mesh configured structure used for reception or transmission of
radio energy to or from an earth orbit satellite or celestial body.
   SETBACK: The minimum required distance between a structure and a property
line(s) of a parcel of land or other established reference point.
   SIGN: See chapter 15 of this title.
   SITE BUILT DWELLING: A structure or dwelling constructed on the site by
craftsmen utilizing materials delivered to the site. Said structure shall
consist of footings and foundations poured in place and solidly attached to the
walls. Roofing materials, interior and exterior finishes shall be applied on
the site. All construction shall be in conformance with all uniform codes in
force at the time of construction. This definition does not include relocated
site built homes.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: Areas that depict, describe, or relate to:
      1.   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
         a.   Human genitals, pubic region;
         b.   Buttocks;
         c.   Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola; and
      2.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: Activities that depict, describe, or relate to:
      1.   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      2.   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, or sodomy;
      3.   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, or breasts;
      4.   Bondage, bestiality.
   STABLE, COMMERCIAL: A stable of horses, mules, or ponies, which are bred,
hired, shown or boarded on a commercial basis and for compensation. This
facility may offer equestrian lessons and may include a show arena and viewing
stands.
   STABLE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory building for the keeping of horses,
mules, or ponies owned by the occupants of the premises and not kept for
remuneration, hire or sale.
   STREET: An arterial street, collector street or local street.
   STREET, ARTERIAL: An arterial street which is identified as a principal
arterial street or minor arterial street as classified in the Parker general
plan. The arterial streets carry most of the trips entering and leaving the
urban area, control access, have signalized intersections and restricted
parking.
   STREET, COLLECTOR: A major collector street or minor collector street as
classified in the Parker general plan. The collector streets provide the
traffic movement from the neighborhoods or high volume traffic generating land
uses to the arterial streets.
   STREET, LOCAL: A local street permits direct access to abutting lands,
traffic movements within neighborhoods, and connections to the collector and
arterial street system.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any complete
rebuilding of the roof or exterior walls.
   STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, which requires location on the
ground or attached to something having location on the ground.
   SUPERMARKET: A retail establishment primarily selling food, as well as other
convenience and household goods, which occupies a space of not less than thirty
thousand one (30,001) square feet and may include additional commercial tenant
uses within the principal building.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS (WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS): See
chapter 16 of this title.
   TENANT IMPROVEMENTS: The alteration of interior space.
   TOWN: The town of Parker.
   USE: The purpose or activity for which land or buildings are designed,
arranged, or intended, or for which land or buildings are occupied or
maintained.
   USE PERMIT: An authorization with appropriate stipulations by the town
council, as set forth in this title, for the development or use of any property
that is subject to such a requirement.
   YARD: Shall mean an open area at grade level between a building and the
adjoining lot lines, unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure
from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided in this title.
   YARD, FRONT: An open unoccupied space on the same lot with a main building,
extending the full width of the lot and situated between the street line and
the front line of the building projected to the side lines of the lot. The
front yard of a corner lot shall be both street frontages. Double frontage lots
within districts that require front yards shall maintain the required front
yard on both streets.
   YARD, REAR: An open space on the same lot with a main building between the
rear line of the building and the rear line of the lot extending the full width
of the lot. The rear yard shall always be opposite the front yard.
   YARD, SIDE: An open unoccupied space on the same lot with a main building
situated between the building and the side line of the lot and extending from
the front yard to the rear yard. Any lot line not a rear line or a front line
shall be deemed a side lot line. An "interior side yard" is defined as the side
yard adjacent to a common lot line.
   ZONE: A district classification established by this title that limits or
permits various and specific uses.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: The staff/official responsible for the enforcement and
interpretation of this title.
   ZONING CLEARANCE: The approval by the zoning administrator of a plan that is
in conformance with this title.
   ZONING DISTRICT: A zone area in which the same zoning regulations apply
throughout the district.
   ZONING ORDINANCE: This title. (Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005; amd. Ord. 04-2011b,
5-17-2011)
10-18-2: APPENDIX B; LOW WATER USE/DROUGHT TOLERANT PLANT LIST FOR RIGHT OF WAY
LANDSCAPING:
This list does not include all of the possible low water use/drought tolerate
plants; rather it lists those that the town of Parker would prefer to have used
within the public rights of way. Nor does this list imply that every plant
listed is suited to every right of way or low water use landscape situation. It
is the responsibility of the landscape designer, architect or contractor to
determine which plants are suitable for a specific location and situation.
Botanical Name    Common Name
Botanical Name                           Common Name
Trees:
 A. greggii                          Catclaw acacia
 A. schaffneri                       Twisted acacia
 A. willardiana                      Palo blanco
 Acacia smallii                      Desert sweet acacia
 C. microphyllum                     Little leaf palo verde
 C. pallida                          Desert hackberry
 C. praecox                          Palo brea
 Celtis reticulata                   Western hackberry
 Cercidium floridum                  Blue palo verde
 Chilopsis linearis                  Desert willow
 Dalbergia sissoo                    Sissoo tree
 Lysiloma thornberi                  Fern of the desert
 Olneya tesota                       Ironwood
 P. glandulosa                       Texas/honey mesquite
 P. pubescens                        Screwbean mesquite
 Pithecellobium flexicaule           Texas ebony
 Prosopis velutina                   Velvet mesquite
 Schinus molle                       California pepper tree
 Ulmus parvifolia cv. "Sempervirens" Chinese evergreen elm
Cacti And Succulents:
 Agave                               Many species
 Carnegiea gigantea                  Saguaro
 Echinocactus grusonii               Golden barrel
 Echinocereus engelmannii            Hedgehog cactus
 Ferocactus acanthodes               Compass barrel
 O. basilaris                        Beavertail prickly pear
 Opuntia violacea                    Purple prickly pear
 Y. baccata                          Banana yucca
 Y. brevifolia                       Joshua tree
 Yucca elata                         Soaptree yucca
Ground Covers:
 Baileya multiradiata                Desert marigold
 Dalea greggii                       Trailing indigo bush
 Lantana spp.                        Trailing lantana
 Melampodium leucanthum              Blackfoot daisy
 Oenothera berlandiere               Mexican evening primrose
 Stachys coccinea                    Texas betony
 Zauschneria californica             Hummingbird trumpet
Shrubs:
 Ambrosia deltoidea                  Triangleleaf bur sage
 Atriplex leatiformis                Quail bush
 C. eriophylla                       Pink fairy duster
 C. pulcherrima                      Red bird of paradise
 C. qilliesii                        Yellow bird of paradise
 Caesalpinia mexicana                Mexican bird of paradise
 Calliandra californica              Baja red fairy duster
 Cassia wislizeni                    Shrubby senna
 D. pulchra                          Pea bush
 D. versicolor                       Indigo bush
 Dalea frutescens                    Black dalea
 Dodonaea viscosa                    Hopbush
 Encelia farinosa                    Brittlebush
 Fouquieria splendens                Ocotillo
 Hesperaloe pariflora                Hesperaloe
 J. spicigera                        Orange hummingbird bush
 Justicia californica                Chuparosa
 L. candidum                         Silver cloud
 L. laevigatum                       Chihuahuan sage
 Larrea tridentata                   Creosote
 Leucophyllum frutescens             Texas sage or green cloud
 P. parryi                           Parry's penstemon
 P. pseudospectabilis                Desert penstemon
 P. superbus                         Superb penstemon
 Penstemon eatoni                    Firecracker penstemon
 Ruellia spp.                        Ruellia
 Salvia spp.                         Sage
 Senna spp.                          Cassia
 Simmondsia chinensis                Jojoba
 Sphaeralcea ambigua                 Globe mallow
 Tecoma stans                        Arizona yellow bells
 
(Ord. 03-2005, 9-6-2005)
CHAPTER 19
FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-19-1: Adopted
10-19-2: Effective Date
10-19-3: Violation; Penalty
10-19-1: ADOPTED:
That certain document known as "State Of Arizona Floodplain Management
Ordinance For Colorado River Communities", three (3) copies of which are on
file in the office of the town clerk of the town of Parker, Arizona, which
document was made a public record, is hereby referred to, adopted, and made a
part hereof as if fully set out in this chapter. (Ord. 04-2006, 7-5-2006)
10-19-2: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The provisions of this chapter and the public record adopted herein are
effective from and after July 5, 2006. (Ord. 04-2006, 7-5-2006)
10-19-3: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person found guilty of violating any provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a class one misdemeanor. Each day that a violation continues shall be
a separate offense punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 04-2006, 7-5-2006)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS 1
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Purpose And Intent
11-1-2: Application Of Provisions
11-1-3: Definitions
11-1-4: Administration Of Provisions
11-1-5: Fees
11-1-6: Modifications To Provisions
11-1-7: Violations
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 9-463 et seq.
11-1-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this title is:
      1.   To provide for the orderly growth and harmonious development of the
town; to ensure adequate traffic circulation through coordinated street systems
with relation to major thoroughfares, adjoining subdivisions and public
facilities;
      2.   To achieve individual property lots of reasonable utility and
livability;
      3.   To secure adequate provisions for water supply, drainage, sanitary
sewerage and other health requirements;
      4.   To ensure consideration for adequate sites for schools, recreation
areas and other public facilities;
      5.   To promote the conveyance of land by accurate legal description; and
      6.   To provide procedures for the achievement of this purpose.
   B.   Intent: In its interpretation and application, the provisions of this
title are intended to provide a common ground of understanding and equitable
working relationship between public and private interests to the end that both
independent and mutual objectives can be achieved in the subdivision of land.
(1988 Code § 14-1-1)
11-1-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Where this title imposes a greater restriction upon land, land
improvement or development and land use than is imposed by existing provisions
of law, ordinance, contract or deed, this title shall control.
   B.   This title shall apply to all "subdivisions" as defined in section
11-1-3 of this chapter. (1988 Code § 14-1-3)
11-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
In this title, unless the context otherwise requires, the following words and
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
ALLEY: A public passageway affording a secondary means of access to abutting
property.
APPROVED LENDING INSTITUTION: Any title insurance company, title insurance
agent, bank, savings and loan association or mortgage lending company currently
approved by the federal housing administration to act as a mortgagee, qualified
to transact business in the state of Arizona, and any other lending institution
approved by the town attorney.
BLOCK: That property fronting on one side of a street and so bounded by other
streets, canals, railroad rights of way, unsubdivided acreage or other barriers
(except alleys) of sufficient magnitude as to interrupt the continuity of
development on both sides thereof.
COMMISSION: The planning and zoning commission of the town 1 .
CONDITIONAL APPROVAL: An affirmative action by the commission or council
indicating that approval will be forthcoming upon satisfaction of certain
specified stipulations.
CONDOMINIUM: The improvement of land in accordance with town standards, in
which an undivided interest in common, in all or a portion of land, is coupled
with the right of exclusive occupancy of any unit of airspace thereon. A
"condominium" may include an individual interest in common in a portion of the
building or buildings; a separate interest in a portion of a building; or with
a separate interest in a portion of the land, together with an undivided
interest in common in a portion of the land.
DEPARTMENT: The planning and zoning department of the town.
DEVELOPMENT: The utilization of land for public or private purposes.
DEVELOPMENT MASTER PLAN: A preliminary master plan for the development of a
large or complicated area, the plotting of which is expected in progressive
stages. A "development master plan" may be designed by the subdivider or by the
department and shall be subject to commission or council approval.
EASEMENT: A grant by the owner of the use of land by the public, a corporation
or person for specific uses and purposes and so designated.
ENGINEERING PLANS: Plans, profiles, cross sections and other required details
for the construction of improvements, prepared by a registered engineer in
accordance with the approved preliminary plat and in compliance with standards
of design and construction approved by the council.
EXCEPTION: Any parcel of land within the subdivision which is not owned by the
subdivider or not included in the recorded plat. All such exceptions must be
noted on the final plat as "not a part of this subdivision".
FINAL APPROVAL: Unconditional approval of the final plat of a subdivision. Such
final approval must be certified on the plat by the mayor and attested by the
town clerk.
GENERAL PLAN: A comprehensive plan, or parts thereof, providing for the future
growth and improvement of the town and for the general location of streets,
schools and recreation areas, public building sites and other physical
development (sometimes referred to as the "master" or "comprehensive" plan).
IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS: A set of regulations setting forth the details,
specifications and instructions to be followed in the planning, design and
construction of certain required improvements to property.
IMPROVEMENTS: Required installations, pursuant to this title, including, but
not limited to, grading, sewer and water utilities, streets, alleys,
underground streetlight circuits and traffic control devices, as a condition to
the approval and acceptance of the final plat, precedent to recordation of an
approved final plat.
IRRIGATION FACILITIES: Canals, laterals, ditches, conduits, gates, pumps and
allied equipment necessary for the supply, delivery and drainage of irrigation
water and the construction, operation and maintenance of such.
LOT: A parcel of land within a single block which, by reason of ownership,
recording or use, is separate and distinct from other such parcels and has its
principal frontage on a dedicated street, street easement or private accessway.
   Corner Lot: A lot abutting on two (2) or more intersecting streets where the
angle of intersection does not exceed one hundred thirty five degrees (135°).
   Interior Lot: A lot having only one side abutting on a street.
   Key Lot: An interior lot, one side of which is contiguous to the rear line
of a corner lot.
   Through Lot: A lot abutting two (2) parallel or approximately parallel
streets.
LOT AREA: The area in square feet lying within the lines of the lot.
LOT DEPTH: The distance between the midpoint of the front and rear lot lines.
LOT LINE:
   Front: That line abutting the street. On corner lots, the front line shall
be the shorter of the two (2) street lines as originally platted, subdivided or
laid out. Where lines are equal, the front line shall be that line which is
obviously the front by reason of prevailing custom of other buildings in the
block. If such is not evident, then either may be considered the front of the
lot but not both. The front lot line of a through lot shall be that line which
is obviously the front by reason of usage of adjacent lots. Such a lot
exceeding one hundred eighty eight feet (188') in depth shall be considered,
for purposes of this title, as two (2) lots, each with its own frontage.
   Rear: That line opposite the front line. Where the side lines meet in a
point, the rear line shall be considered parallel to the front line, or a
tangent of the midpoint of a curved front line, and lying ten feet (10') within
the lot.
   Side: Those property lines connecting the front and rear lot lines.
LOT WIDTH: A. If side lines are parallel, the shortest distance between the
side lines.
   B.   If side lot lines are not parallel, the length of a line at right
angles to the axis of the lot at a distance equal to the front setback required
for the zoning district in which the lot is located. The "axis of a lot" shall
be a line joining the midpoint of the front and rear property lines.
NEIGHBORHOOD PLAN: A plan designed to guide the platting of remaining vacant
parcels in a partially built up neighborhood so as to make reasonable use of
all land, correlate street patterns and achieve the best possible land use
relationships.
OPEN SPACE LANDS: Any space or area characterized by great natural scenic
beauty or whose existing openness, natural condition or present state of use,
if retained, would maintain or enhance the preservation of natural or scenic
resources, or the production of food or fiber.
OWNER: The person or persons holding title by deed to land, or holding title as
vendor under land contract, or holding any other title of record.
PEDESTRIANWAY: A dedicated public walk extending entirely through a block from
street to street or providing access to a school, park, recreation area or
shopping center.
PLAT: A map which provides for changes in land use or ownership.
   Final Plat: A map of all or part of a subdivision, including supporting
data, essentially conforming to an approved preliminary plat, prepared by a
registered civil engineer, a registered land surveyor, a landscape architect or
architect, in accordance with this title and the statutes of the state of
Arizona.
   Preliminary Plat: A tentative map, including supporting data, indicating a
proposed subdivision design, prepared by a registered civil engineer, a
registered land surveyor, a landscape architect or architect, in accordance
with this title and the statutes of the state of Arizona. A preliminary site
plan for a condominium development shall be considered a "preliminary plat".
   Recorded Plat: A final plat bearing all certificates of approval required by
this title and the statutes of the state of Arizona and duly recorded in the La
Paz County recorder's office.
   Reversionary Plat: A. A map for the purpose of reverting previously
subdivided acreage to unsubdivided acreage; or
   B.   A map for the purpose of vacating rights of way previously dedicated to
the public and abandoned under procedures prescribed by the town; or
   C.   A map for the purpose of vacating or redescribing lot or parcel
boundaries previously recorded.
PRELIMINARY APPROVAL: Affirmative action on a preliminary plat, noted upon
prints of the plat, indicating that approval of a final plat will be
forthcoming upon satisfaction of specified stipulations and which constitutes
authorization to proceed with final engineering plans and final plat
preparation.
PRIVATE ACCESSWAY: Any private street or private way of access to one or more
lots or airspace which is owned and maintained by an individual or group of
individuals and has been improved in accordance with town standards and plans
approved by the town engineer.
RIGHT OF WAY: Any public or private accessway required for ingress or egress,
including any area required for public use pursuant to any general or specific
plan as provided for in this title; "right of way" may consist of fee title
dedications or easements.
SECRETARY: The chairman of the planning and zoning commission or his designated
representative.
STREET: Any existing or proposed street, avenue, boulevard, road, lane,
parkway, place, viaduct, easement for public vehicular access or other way
which is a state, county or municipal roadway; or a street or way shown in a
plat heretofore approved pursuant to law or approved by official action; or a
street or way in a plat duly filed and recorded in the county recorder's
office. A "street" includes all land within the street right of way lines,
whether improved or unimproved, including such improvements as pavement,
shoulders, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, parking space, bridges, viaducts and
landscaping.
   Collector: A street providing direct service to residential areas from major
streets and highways for traffic movement within neighborhoods of the town and
for direct access to abutting property. It collects local traffic from the
neighborhoods and delivers the same to the nearest major street or highway.
   Cul-De-Sac: A short local street having one end permanently terminated in a
vehicular turnaround, or an equally convenient form of turning and backing
areas as may be recommended by the town engineer.
   Freeway-Expressway: A street providing for the expeditious movement of large
volumes of through traffic between areas or across, around or through the town
or urban area; a divided arterial highway with full control of access and not
intended to provide direct access to abutting land. In urban areas, both will
normally be a portion of a system or network of freeways.
   Frontage Road: A collector street located within a freeway or expressway
right of way and parallel to the freeway or expressway traffic lanes.
   Local Street: A street providing for direct access to residential,
commercial, industrial or other abutting land and for local traffic movements
and connecting to collector or major streets.
   Major Street Or Highway: A street providing for traffic movement between the
areas and across portions of the town, direct service to principal generators,
and connections to the freeway-expressway system; and secondarily for direct
access to abutting land. Such are subject to necessary regulation and control
of parking, directional controls, turning movements, entrances, exits and curb
use; often divided arterial roadways, and may have some control of access. The
individual major streets combine to make a system of townwide traffic movement.
   Marginal Access Road: A local street, located within the major street or
highway right of way, parallel and adjacent to major traffic lanes, providing
direct access to abutting property, intercepting local streets and controlling
access to major streets.
   Parkway: Any of the street types which are intensively landscaped to provide
attractive or scenic appearance or located in a park or park like area. The use
of the facility may be restricted to noncommercial traffic.
STREET CLASSIFICATION PLAN: A plan which provides for the development of a
system of major streets and highways, including the location, width and
alignment of existing and proposed thoroughfares.
SUBDIVIDER: A person, firm, corporation, partnership, association, syndicate,
trust or other legal entity that files the application and initiates
proceedings for a subdivision in accordance with the provisions of this title
and statutes of the state of Arizona; except, that an individual serving as
agent for such legal entity is not a "subdivider"; and said "subdivider" need
not be the "owner" of the property as defined in this section. The town council
may itself prepare or have prepared a plat for the subdivision of land under
municipal ownership.
SUBDIVISION: Improved or unimproved land or lands divided for the purpose of
financing, sale or lease, whether immediate or future, into four (4) or more
lots, tracts or parcels of land, or if a new street is involved, any such
property which is divided into two (2) or more lots, tracts or parcels of land,
or any such property, the boundaries of which have been fixed by a recorded
plat, which is divided into more than two (2) parts. "Subdivision" also
includes any condominium, cooperative, community apartment, townhouse or
similar project containing four (4) or more parcels in which an undivided
interest in the land is coupled with the right of exclusive occupancy of any
unit located thereon, but plats of such projects need not show the buildings or
the manner in which the buildings or airspace above the property shown on the
plat are to be divided. "Subdivision" does not include the following:
   A.   The sale or exchange of parcels of land to or between adjoining
property owners if such sale or exchange does not create additional lots.
   B.   The partitioning of land in accordance with other statutes regulating
the partitioning of land held in common ownership.
   C.   The leasing of apartments, offices, stores or similar space within a
building or a manufactured home park, nor to mineral, oil or gas leases.
SUBDIVISION DESIGN: Street alignment, grades and widths; alignment and widths
of easements and rights of way for drainage, sanitary sewers and public
utilities and the arrangement and orientation of lots; locations of buildings
together with refuse collection and maintenance easements in condominium
developments.
USABLE LOT AREA: That portion of a lot usable for or adaptable to the normal
uses made of property, excluding any areas which may be covered by water, with
grades exceeding twenty percent (20%) or are included in certain types of
easements.
UTILITIES: Installations of facilities, underground or overhead, furnished for
the use of public electricity, gas, steam, communications, water, television
cable or sewage disposal, owned and operated by any person, firm, corporation,
municipal department or board duly authorized by state or municipal
regulations. "Utilities", as used herein, may also refer to such persons,
firms, corporations, departments or boards as applicable herein. (1988 Code §
14-1-2; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 1 of this code.
11-1-4: ADMINISTRATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Planning And Zoning Commission: The town planning and zoning commission
is hereby authorized to receive, process and otherwise act upon preliminary and
final subdivision plats and development plans in accordance with this title.
   B.   Town Council: The town council shall have final jurisdiction over all
matters pertaining to the implementation of these regulations but shall neither
receive nor review final plats or development master plans until such have
received the recommendations of the commission.
   C.   Filing Applications: All applications for action under this title shall
be filed initially with the department for processing in accordance with this
title. (1988 Code § 14-1-3)
11-1-5: FEES:
Applications for preliminary and final plat approval shall be accompanied by a
nonrefundable filing fee established by resolution of the town council. The fee
shall be based on the number of lots proposed to be platted and the town's
anticipated cost to review and process plats. Filing fees shall cover the cost
of an amended or revised plat when processed as one case, but an additional fee
shall be charged in cases where preliminary approval expires prior to
application for final approval. (1988 Code § 14-1-3)
11-1-6: MODIFICATIONS TO PROVISIONS:
   A.   Authority To Modify:
      1.   Where, in the opinion of the council, there exist extraordinary
conditions of topography, land ownership or adjacent developments, or other
circumstances not provided for in this title, the council may modify these
regulations in such manner and to such extent as it may deem appropriate to the
public interest.
      2.   In the case of a plan and program for a complete community or a
complete neighborhood, the council may modify these regulations in such manner
as appears necessary and desirable to provide adequate space and improvements
for the circulation, recreation, light, air and service needs of the tract when
fully developed and populated, and may require stipulations to assure
conformance with the achievement of the plan.
   B.   Conditions Of Modification: In modifying the standards or requirements
of this title, as outlined in this section, the council may make such
additional requirements as appear necessary, in its judgment, to secure
substantially the objectives of the standards or requirements so modified.
(1988 Code art. 14-5)
11-1-7: VIOLATIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to sell, offer to sell or divide any lot, piece
or parcel of land which constitutes a "subdivision" or part thereof, as defined
herein, without first having recorded a plat thereof in accordance with this
title. (1988 Code § 14-1-4)
CHAPTER 2
PLATTING PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Outline Of Procedures
11-2-2: Preapplication Stage
11-2-3: Preliminary Plat Stage
11-2-4: Final Plat Stage
11-2-1: OUTLINE OF PROCEDURES:
The preparation, submittal, review and approval of all subdivision plats
located inside the limits of the town shall proceed through the following
stages:
   A.   Preapplication stage.
   B.   Preliminary plat stage.
   C.   Final plat stage. (1988 Code § 14-2-1)
11-2-2: PREAPPLICATION STAGE:
   A.   Purpose: The preapplication stage affords the subdivider the
opportunity of obtaining the advice and assistance and of informally discussing
the proposed subdivision with the department prior to the expense of a
preliminary plat preparation. It also affords the department the opportunity to
give informal guidance at a time when potential points of conflict can be most
easily resolved, subsequent relations improved, official action simplified and
undue expense and delay saved by the subdivider.
   B.   Actions By Subdivider: The subdivider shall meet informally with the
department to present a general outline of his proposal, including, but not
limited to:
      1.   Sketch plans and ideas regarding land use, street and lot
arrangements and tentative lot sizes.
      2.   Tentative proposals regarding water supply, sewage disposal, surface
drainage and street improvements.
   C.   Actions By Department: The department shall discuss the proposal with
the subdivider and advise him of procedural steps, design and improvement
standards and general plat requirements. Then, depending upon the scope of the
proposed development, the department shall proceed with the following
investigations:
      1.   Check existing zoning of the district.
      2.   Advise the subdivider if a zoning change will be required and that
such change must be obtained prior to additional processing of the application.
      3.   Determine the adequacy of existing or proposed schools, parks and
other public spaces.
      4.   Inspect the site or otherwise determine its relationship to major
streets, utility systems and adjacent land uses and determine any unusual
problems such as topography, utilities, flooding, etc.
      5.   Determine the need for preparation and review of a development
master plan prior to subsequent consideration of a preliminary plat. Advise the
subdivider if a development master plan is required and to what extent it shall
be prepared by the developer and by the department.
   D.   Development Master Plan:
      1.   Guidelines: The department shall use the following guidelines in
establishing the need for a development master plan: whether the tract is
sufficiently large to comprise an entire neighborhood; whether the tract
initially proposed for platting is only a portion of a larger landholding of
the subdivider; or the tract is a part of a larger land area, the development
of which is complicated by unusual topographic, utility, land use, land
ownership or other conditions. The entire land area considered in determining
the need for a development master plan need not be under the subdivider's
control.
      2.   Preparation Of Plan: The development master plan shall be prepared
to scale and accuracy commensurate with its purpose and shall include:
         a.   General street pattern with particular attention to collector
streets and future circulation throughout the neighborhood.
         b.   General location and size of school sites, parks or other public
areas.
         c.   Location of shopping centers, multi-family residential or other
proposed land uses.
         d.   Methods proposed for sewage disposal, water supply and storm
drainage.
         e.   Location of buildings and circulation for condominium
developments on all land owned by subdivider.
      3.   Approval Of Plan: Upon acceptance of the general design approach by
the department, the development master plan may be submitted to the commission
and council for their consideration. If general approval is given, notice to
that effect shall be recorded in the minutes of both bodies and a copy of said
minutes transmitted to the subdivider and his engineer. If development is to
take place in several parts, the development master plan should be submitted as
supporting data for each part. The development master plan should be kept up to
date by the subdivider and the department as modifications take place. (1988
Code § 14-2-2)
11-2-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT STAGE:
The preliminary plat stage of land and airspace subdivision includes detailed
planning, submittal, review and approval of the preliminary plat. To avoid
delay in processing his application, the subdivider shall provide the
department with all information essential to determine the character and
general acceptability of the proposed development.
   A.   Compliance With Zoning Regulations: The subdivision shall be designed
to meet the specific requirements for the zoning district within which it is
located. However, in the event that a zoning amendment or a zoning adjustment
is necessary for conformance with district regulations, said action shall be
initiated by the property owner or his authorized agent. The department shall
not proceed with processing of the preliminary plat until the necessary
amendment or adjustment has been obtained. Any furtherance of predevelopment
activity engaged in by or in behalf of the developer while an application for
zoning amendment or variance is pending shall in no instance be construed as
having been undertaken in reliance of a favorable determination of such
application, notwithstanding the nature of a department recommendation on the
matter. In any event, any such zoning amendment or adjustment required in
relation to the preliminary plat shall have been adopted prior to preliminary
plat approval.
   B.   Inform Health Department Of Sewage Disposal, Water Supply And Fire
Protection: As a prerequisite of preliminary plat review by the department, the
subdivider shall have informed the county health department of his tentative
plans and learned the general requirements for sewage disposal, water supply
and fire protection as applied to his location. (1988 Code § 14-2-3)
   C.   Submission Of Plat:
      1.   Twenty (20) copies of the preliminary plat, an eight and one- half
inch by eleven inch (81/2" x 11") transparency and other required supporting
data prepared in accordance with requirements set forth in this section shall
be filed with the department at least twenty one (21) days prior to the
commission meeting at which the subdivider desires to discuss the plat.
Submission shall include fees as required by section
11-1-5 of this title. Copies of the preliminary plat shall be reproduced in the
form of blueline or blackline prints on a white background. Scheduling of the
case for commission hearing shall be dependent upon adequacy of data presented
and completion of processing. (1988 Code § 14-2-3; amd. 2004 Code)
      2.   The submittal shall be checked by the department for completeness
and assigned a case number. If incomplete as to those requirements set forth in
this section, the submittal shall be rejected and the subdivider notified
within five (5) days of the date the map was received.
      3.   Preliminary plats of subdivisions outside the town but within a
three (3) mile radius of the town shall be submitted by the developer to the
town planning and zoning department for review with fees as outlined in section
11-1-5 of this title. In addition, the joint town/county planning and zoning
commission shall meet to review the plat and forward its recommendation to the
county planning and zoning commission pursuant to Arizona Revised Statutes
section 9-474, as amended.
   D.   Review Procedures:
      1.   On receipt of the preliminary plat, the department shall perform its
review for compliance to public objectives, giving special attention to design
principles and standards as set forth in
chapter 3 of this title, streets and thoroughfares as related to the town
street and highway plans and to neighborhood circulation, utility methods and
systems, existing and proposed zoning and land use of the tract and its
environs, and land required for schools, parks and other public facilities.
      2.   The department shall distribute copies of the plat to the following
reviewing offices:
         a.   Town engineer for review.
         b.   Director of public works for review of the proposed street
system; street plans, and compliance with town street standards; tentative
determination of street and drainage improvement and maintenance requirements;
and water and sewage disposal proposals.
         c.   Police chief, fire chief and building official for review of
features of proposed development relating to their respective areas of
operation.
         d.   County health department for review of water and sewage disposal
proposals.
         e.   Superintendent of the appropriate school district for his
information.
         f.   Where the land abuts a state highway, to the Arizona department
of transportation and to the county highway department for recommendations
regarding rights of way and intersection design.
         g.   To interested utilities for information.
         h.   To the United States postmaster at Parker, Arizona. (1988 Code §
14-2-3)
      3.   The reviewing offices shall transmit their recommendations to the
department in writing. The department shall receive and summarize the reviewing
offices' recommendations, prepare a report and present it to the commission.
(1988 Code § 14-2-3; amd. 2004 Code)
   E.   Approval Of Preliminary Plat:
      1.   If the department report indicates that the requirements of this
title have been met, the commission shall consider the preliminary plat at the
next regular meeting but not less than thirty (30) days from the date of
filing.
      2.   The commission shall consider the preliminary plat and the
department recommendations, and if satisfied that all objectives have been met,
the commission shall approve the preliminary plat, and the secretary shall
stamp a notation of approval on two (2) copies of the plat, one being returned
to the subdivider and one retained in the permanent commission file.
      3.   If the plat is generally acceptable but requires minor revision
before proceeding with preparation of the final plat, the commission shall find
conditional approval and note the required revisions in the minutes of the
meeting and in a report to the subdivider. At the direction of the commission,
the plat may be given approval, subject to the revisions, in accordance with
the stated conditions and review by the department.
      4.   If the commission finds that the plat requires major revision, the
plat may be continued pending revision or resubmittal for the same tract or any
part thereof and shall follow the aforementioned procedures.
   F.   Significance And Limitation Of Preliminary Approval: Preliminary
approval constitutes authorization for the subdivider to proceed with
preparation of the final plat and the engineering plans and specifications for
improvements. Preliminary approval is based upon the following items:
      1.   The basic conditions under which preliminary approval of the
preliminary plat is granted will not be substantially changed prior to
expiration date.
      2.   Approval is valid for a period of twelve (12) months from the date
of council approval. A six (6) month extension of the preliminary plat approval
may be granted by the commission upon receipt of a letter from the subdivider
prior to expiration date.
      3.   Preliminary approval, in itself, does not assure final acceptance of
streets for dedication nor continuation of existing zoning requirements for the
tract or its environs, nor constitute authorization to record the plat. (1988
Code § 14-2-3)
   G.   Information Required For Plat Submittal:
      1.   Form Of Presentation: The information hereinafter required as part
of the preliminary plat submittal shall be shown graphically or by note on
plans, or by letter, and may comprise several sheets showing various elements
of required data. All mapped data for the same plat shall be drawn at the same
standard engineering scale, said scale having not more than one hundred feet to
an inch (1" = 100'). Whenever practical, scale shall be adjusted to produce an
overall drawing measuring twenty two inches by thirty six inches (22" x 36")
and not exceeding thirty two inches by forty two inches (32" x 42"). (1988 Code
§ 14-2-4)
      2.   Identification And Descriptive Data: Proposed name of subdivision
and its location by section, township and range, referenced by dimension and
bearing to a section or quarter section corner. (1988 Code § 14-2-4; amd. 2004
Code)
      3.   Existing Conditions Data:
         a.   Topography by contours or "spot elevations" related to USC and GS
survey datum, or other datum approved by the town engineer, shown on the same
map as the proposed subdivision layout. Contour intervals shall be such as to
adequately reflect the character and drainage of the land.
         b.   Location of fences, water wells, streams, canals, irrigation
laterals, private ditches, washes, lakes or other water features; direction of
flow; location and extent of areas subject to inundation, whether such
inundation be frequent, periodic or occasional.
         c.   Location, widths and names of all platted streets, railroads,
utility rights of way of public record, public areas, permanent structures to
remain, including water wells and municipal corporation lines within, adjacent
to or extending from the tract.
         d.   Location of all existing improvements on public rights of way and
on private property, including utility lines and trees.
         e.   Name, book and page numbers of any recorded adjacent subdivisions
having common boundary with the tract.
         f.   By note, the existing zoning classification of the subject tract
and adjacent tracts.
         g.   By note, the acreage of the subject tract.
         h.   Boundaries of the tract to be subdivided shall be fully
dimensioned.
         i.   Engineers' calculations and estimated values for each tributary
storm runoff for the 100-year and 50-year frequency storms; the values to be
indicated along the boundary of the plat for all points of drainage entering
the property.
      4.   Proposed Conditions Data:
         a.   Street layout including locations, width, curve radii and
proposed names of streets, alleys and crosswalks; connections to adjoining
platted tract.
         b.   Typical lot dimensions (scaled); dimensions of all corner lots
and lots of curvilinear sections of streets; each lot numbered individually;
total number of lots or dwelling units.
         c.   Designation of all land to be dedicated or reserved for public
use with use indicated.
         d.   If plat includes land for which multi-family, commercial or
industrial use is proposed, such areas shall be clearly designated together
with existing zoning classification and status of zoning change, if any.
         e.   Proposed development units.
         f.   Proposed storm water disposal system, preliminary calculations
and layout of proposed drainage system; the direction of proposed street
drainage to be indicated by arrows on the plat; and if required by the town
engineer, a proposal to provide for the retention of storm water generated on
the property by a 10-year frequency storm.
         g.   Compliance with:
            (1)   Rules as may be established by the Arizona department of
transportation relating to provisions for safety of entrance upon and departing
from abutting state primary highways.
            (2)   Rules as may be established by the state department of health
services or the county health department relating to the provisions of domestic
water supply and sanitary sewerage disposal.
      5.   Proposed Utility Methods:
         a.   Sewage Disposal: A statement as to the type of facilities
proposed shall appear on the preliminary plat.
         b.   Water Supply: A statement as to the water supply for the
development shall appear on the preliminary plat. (1988 Code § 14-2-4)
11-2-4: FINAL PLAT STAGE:
The final plat stage includes the final design of the subdivision, engineering
of improvements and submittal of the plat and plans by the subdivider for
review and for action by the department, commission and council.
   A.   Zoning Of Subdivision: Zoning of the tract shall permit the proposed
use, and any zoning amendment necessary shall have been adopted by the council
prior to filing of the final plat.
   B.   Easements:
      1.   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to provide on the
final plat, prior to plat recordation, the location and width of easements as
required for utility and drainage purposes.
      2.   The following notation shall be placed upon all final plats which
provide utility easements: No structure of any kind shall be constructed or
placed within or over the utility easement except utilities; wood, wire or
removable section type fencing; asphalt paving or grass. It shall be further
understood that the town shall not be required to replace any obstructions,
paving or planting that must be removed during the course of maintenance,
construction or reconstruction.
      3.   The following notation shall be placed on all final plats which
provide drainage easements: No structure of any kind shall be constructed or
any vegetation be planted nor be allowed to grow within or over the drainage
easement which would obstruct or divert the flow of storm water. The town may,
if it so desires, construct or maintain drainage facilities on or under the
land of the easement.
   C.   Preparation Of Final Plat: The final plat shall be presented in
accordance with requirements set forth in this section and shall substantially
conform to the approved preliminary plat.
   D.   Submission Of Plat: The subdivider shall file with the department one
linen final plat, one Mylar transparency, and thirteen (13) copies thereof,
together with a letter of transmittal and recordation fee, at least twenty one
(21) days prior to the council meeting at which consideration is desired. A fee
for final plat and construction plan review will be in accordance with section
11-1-5 of this title. (1988 Code § 14-2-5)
   E.   Review Procedures:
      1.   The department, upon receipt of the final plat submittal, shall
immediately record receipt and date of filing and check it for completeness. If
complete, the department shall review the plat for substantial conformity to
the approved preliminary plat and refer copies of the submittal to the offices
of the town manager, public works director and police department who shall make
known their recommendations in writing addressed to the council. (1988 Code §
4-2-5; amd. 2004 Code)
      2.   The department shall assemble the recommendations of the various
reviewing offices, prepare a concise summary of recommendations and submit said
summary, together with the reviewers' recommendations, to the council. In the
event that the department finds that the final plat does not conform to the
preliminary plat, as approved by the commission, then the final plat shall be
submitted to the commission for review and recommendation prior to submittal to
the council.
   F.   Approval Of Final Plat:
      1.   Upon receipt of a request for council action from the town manager,
the clerk shall place the plat on the agenda of a regular council meeting,
whereupon the council shall approve or deny the plat.
      2.   If the council approves the plat, the clerk shall transcribe a
certificate of approval upon the plat, first making sure that the other
required certifications pursuant to this chapter have been duly signed.
      3.   When the certificate of approval by the council has been transcribed
on the plat, the department shall retain the record copy until the town
engineer certifies that the subdivision has been staked and the engineering
plans have been approved.
      4.   The department shall cause the final plat to be recorded in the
office of the county recorder. (1988 Code § 14-2-5)
   G.   Information Required For Plat Submittal:
      1.   Method And Medium Of Presentation: Size prerequisites for recording
maps and plat that exceed a size of eight and one-half inches by fourteen
inches (81/2" x 14") shall be subject to the following restrictions:
         a.   A map or plat of a subdivision which shall be drawn in India ink
on a sheet or sheets of linen or Mylar measuring twenty four inches by thirty
six inches (24" x 36"), with a left margin of two inches (2"). The map or plat
shall be drawn to an accurate scale not to exceed two hundred feet to the inch
(1" = 200').
         b.   All other maps or plats shall be drawn in India ink on sheet or
sheets of linen or Mylar measuring eighteen inches by twenty six inches (18" x
26") with a left margin of two inches (2"). The map or plat shall be drawn to a
scale not to exceed three hundred feet to the inch (1" = 300').
         c.   Copies of the record plat shall be reproduced in the form of
blueline or blackline prints on a white background.
      2.   Identification Data Required: The following identification data
shall be required as a part of the final plat submittal:
         a.   A title which includes the name of the subdivision and its
location by number of section, township, range and county.
         b.   Name, address and registration number or seal of the registered
civil engineer or registered land surveyor preparing the plat.
         c.   Scale, north arrow and date of plat preparation.
      3.   Survey Data Required: The following survey data shall be required as
a part of the final plat submittal.
         a.   The corners of the plat shall be located on the monument lines of
abutting streets; boundaries of the tract to be subdivided fully balanced and
closed, showing all bearings and distances, determined by an accurate survey in
the field. All dimensions shall be expressed in feet and decimals thereof.
         b.   Any excepted parcels within or surrounded by the plat boundaries
shall be noted as "not a part of this subdivision" and show all bearings and
distances of the excepted parcel as determined by an accurate survey in the
field. All dimensions shall be expressed in feet and decimals thereof.
         c.   Location and description of cardinal points to which all
dimensions, angles, bearings and similar data on the plat shall be referenced.
Each of two (2) separate corners of the subdivision traverse shall be tied by
course and distance to separate section corners or quarter section corners.
         d.   Location of all physical encroachments upon the boundaries of the
tract.
      4.   Descriptive Data Required: The following descriptive data shall be
required as part of the final plat submittal:
         a.   Name, right of way lines, courses, length and width of all public
streets, alleys and crosswalks; radii, points of tangency and central angles of
all curvilinear streets and alleys; radii of all rounded street line
intersections.
         b.   All drainageways shall be shown on the plat. The rights of way of
all major drainageways, as designated by the town engineer, shall be dedicated
to the public.
         c.   All lots shall be numbered by consecutive numbers throughout the
plat. All "tracts" and "parcels" shall be designated, lettered or named and
clearly dimensioned; parcels which are not part of the subdivision shall be so
designated.
         d.   Locations, dimensions, bearings, radii, arcs and central angles
of all sites to be dedicated to the public with the use clearly indicated.
         e.   Location of all adjoining subdivisions with name, book and page
number of recordation noted or, if unrecorded, so marked.
         f.   Any proposed private deed restrictions to be imposed upon the
plat, or any part thereof, pertaining to the intended use of the land, and to
be recognized by the town, shall be noted on the plat.
         g.   All existing private easements within, on or over the plat shall
be indicated, dimensioned and noted as to their use.
      5.   Dedication And Acknowledgment:
         a.   Dedication: There shall be required as part of the final plat
submittal a statement of dedication of all streets, alleys, crosswalks,
drainageways, pedestrianways and other easements for public use by the person
holding title of record, by persons holding title as vendees under land
contract, and by spouses of said parties. If lands dedicated are mortgaged, the
mortgagee shall also sign the plat. Dedication shall include a written location
by section, township and range of the tract. If the plat contains private
accessways, public utilities shall be reserved the right to install and
maintain utilities in the accessways, including refuse collection.
         b.   Acknowledgment Of Dedication: Execution of dedication shall be
acknowledged and certified by a notary public.
      6.   Required Certifications: The following certifications shall be
required as part of the final plat submittal:
         a.   Certification by the registered civil engineer or registered land
surveyor making the plat that the plat is correct and accurate and that the
monuments described on it have either been set or located as described. All
maps shall contain the seal of a registered civil engineer or land surveyor.
         b.   Certificate of plat approval by the town engineer.
         c.   Certificate of plat approval by the town council.
         d.   Certificate of recordation by the county recorder. (1988 Code §
14-2-6)
CHAPTER 3
DESIGN STANDARDS AND PRINCIPLES
SECTION:
11-3-1: Compliance With Provisions
11-3-2: Unsuitability Of Land For Subdividing
11-3-3: Dedication Of Public Lands
11-3-4: Streets And Alleys
11-3-5: Blocks
11-3-6: Lots
11-3-7: Easements
11-3-8: Street Names
11-3-1: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
Every subdivision shall conform to requirements and objectives of the general
plan, or any parts thereof, as adopted by the council, to the town zoning
ordinance, to this code, other ordinances and regulations of the town, and to
the Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended. (1988 Code § 14-3-1)
11-3-2: UNSUITABILITY OF LAND FOR SUBDIVIDING:
No land shall be subdivided which is held by the commission to be unsuitable
for residential use by reason of flooding, concentrated runoff, inadequate
drainage, adverse soil or rock formations, extreme topography, erosion
susceptibility or similar conditions which are likely to prove harmful to the
health, safety, and general welfare of the community or the future property
owners. The commission, in applying the provisions of sections
11-3-1 and
11-3-3 of this chapter, shall state in writing the particular facts upon which
its conclusions are based and shall also define the conditions under which the
land may, in its opinion, become suitable for the proposed development. Any
subdivider proposing development of such land shall have the right to present
evidence to the council contesting such determination of unsuitability,
whereupon the council may affirm, modify or withdraw the restriction. (1988
Code § 14-3-1)
11-3-3: DEDICATION OF PUBLIC LANDS:
Where the tract contains all or any part of the site of a school, park or other
public site, as shown on the general plan or as recommended by the commission,
such site shall either be dedicated to the public or reserved for acquisition
by the public within a specified period of time. An agreement shall be reached
between the subdivider and the appropriate public agency regarding time, method
and cost of such acquisition. In the event of failure to reach such agreement
within a reasonable period of time for reasons satisfactory to the commission,
the commission may determine that requirements of this section and sections
11-3-1 and
11-3-2 of this chapter have been met. (1988 Code § 14-3-1)
11-3-4: STREETS AND ALLEYS:
   A.   Location And Arrangement:
      1.   Whenever a tract to be subdivided embraces any part of a street
designated in an adopted town street and highway plan, such street shall be
platted in conformance therewith.
      2.   Street layout shall provide for the continuation of such streets as
the department may designate.
      3.   Whenever a tract to be subdivided is located within an area for
which a neighborhood plan has been approved by the commission, the street
arrangement shall conform substantially to said plan.
      4.   Certain proposed streets, as designated by the department, shall be
extended to the tract boundary to provide future connection with adjoining
unplatted lands.
      5.   Local streets shall be so arranged as to discourage their use by
through traffic.
      6.   Where a proposed subdivision abuts or contains an existing or
proposed major street, the department may require marginal access roads or
reverse frontage with nonaccess easements along the major street or such other
treatment as may be justified for protection of residential properties from the
nuisance and hazard of high volume traffic, and to preserve the traffic
function of the major street in other types of developments.
      7.   Where a subdivision abuts or contains the right of way of a
railroad, drainageway, a limited access highway or an irrigation canal or abuts
a commercial or industrial land use, the department may require the location of
a street approximately parallel to and on each side of such right of way at a
distance suitable for appropriate use of the intervening land. Such distance
shall be determined with due regard for approach grades, drainage bridges or
future grade separations.
      8.   Streets shall be so arranged in relation to existing topography as
to produce desirable lots of maximum utility and streets of reasonable gradient
and to facilitate adequate drainage.
      9.   Alleys are required in all residential, commercial and industrial
subdivisions, however, this requirement may be waived by the commission because
of lot sizes, topography and other circumstances.
      10.   Half streets shall be discouraged except where necessary to provide
right of way required by the town street and highway plan, to complete a street
pattern already begun, or to ensure reasonable development of a number of
adjoining parcels. Where there exists a platted half street abutting the tract
to be subdivided, the remaining half shall usually be platted within the tract.
(1988 Code § 14-3-2)
   B.   Design Standards:
      1.   Minimum Required Right Of Way Widths:
         a.   Major streets and highways, as required by current town, county
or state standards.
         b.   Collector streets, as required by current town standards.
         c.   Local streets, as required by current town standards; sixty foot
(60') full street right of way may be required adjacent to park and school
sites.
            (1)   Cul-de-sac streets shall terminate in a circular right of way
forty five feet (45') in radius with an eight foot (8') utility easement around
the turnaround. The department may recommend an equally convenient form of
turning and backing areas where extreme conditions justify.
            (2)   Dead end streets will not be approved except in locations
recommended by the department as necessary to future extension in development
of adjacent lands. In any case, a dead end street extending two hundred feet
(200') or more shall be provided by easement a temporary turning circle with a
forty foot (40') radius or other acceptable design to accomplish adequate
access.
         d.   Marginal access roads, as required by current town standards.
         e.   Alleys, when provided, shall be sixteen feet (16') wide where
there is single-family residential on both sides; twenty feet (20') wide if
abutting commercial, multiple-family residential or industrial districts. Alley
intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall be avoided, but where
necessary, corners shall be cut off fifteen feet (15') on each side to permit
safe vehicular movement. Dead end alleys are prohibited. All half alleys shall
have a minimum width of twelve feet (12').
         f.   Private accessways, as required by town standards.
      2.   Grades:
      a. Maximum:
 
Collector streets 7 percent
Local streets     15 percent All over 12 percent have a maximum length of 600
                             feet
Major streets     As determined by the town engineer
 
      b. Minimum:
            (1)   Concrete or asphalt streets with concrete gutters:
 
Desirable 0.40 percent
Minimum   0.15 percent
 
      (2) Concrete or asphalt streets without gutters:
 
Minimum 0.35 percent
 
         c.   Exceptions: Where rigid adherence to these standards causes
unreasonable or unwarranted hardship in design or cost without commensurate
public benefit, exceptions may be made by the commission upon review and
recommendation of the town engineer.
      3.   Vertical Curves:
         a.   Major streets, as determined by the town engineer.
         b.   When tangent centerlines deflect from each other more than ten
degrees (10°) and less than ninety degrees (90°), they shall be connected by a
curve with a minimum centerline radius of five hundred feet (500') for
collector streets or one hundred feet (100') for local streets.
         c.   Between reverse curves, there shall be a tangent section of
centerline not less than one hundred feet (100') long, unless the radius
exceeds six hundred feet (600') on collector streets or two hundred feet (200')
on local streets, in which case, fifty feet (50') of tangent shall be required.
         d.   Streets intersecting a major street shall do so at a ninety
degree (90°) angle; intersections of local streets shall not vary from ninety
degrees (90°) by more than fifteen degrees (15°).
         e.   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than one hundred
twenty five feet (125') shall be prohibited except when approved by the town
engineer. Under special circumstances where local streets intersect major
streets, the town engineer may require minimum centerline offsets of four
hundred feet (400').
         f.   Local streets intersecting a collector street or major street
shall have a tangent section of centerline at least one hundred fifty feet
(150') in length measured from the right of way line of the major street;
except, that no such tangent is required when the local street curve has a
centerline radius greater than four hundred feet (400') with the center located
on the major street right of way line. Where topographic conditions make
necessary other treatment to secure the best overall design, these standards
may be varied by the commission upon the recommendation of the town engineer.
         g.   Street intersections with more than four (4) legs and Y-type
intersections where legs meet at acute angles shall be avoided; provisions of
T-type intersections for local streets shall be encouraged.
         h.   At local street intersections, property line corners shall be
rounded by circular arc, said arc having a minimum tangent length or radius of
twelve feet (12'). A sixteen foot by sixteen foot (16' x 16') triangle shall be
provided at each corner of the intersection of two (2) major streets; a
fourteen foot by eleven foot (14' x 11') triangle at each corner of the
intersection of two (2) collector streets, or as approved the town engineer.
         i.   Collector streets shall intersect the major streets at the
midsection corners or as otherwise approved.
         j.   Local streets which are primary access to a subdivision shall
intersect major streets at the quarter mile corners or as otherwise approved.
         k.   Marginal access road openings to major streets at a local street
intersection shall have a minimum thirty foot (30') wide separation island
between the major street traffic lanes and marginal access road, which shall be
provided within the major street right of way.
         l.   Marginal access roads shall not intersect a major street nor a
collector street. (1988 Code § 14-3-3)
11-3-5: BLOCKS:
   A.   Maximum Length Of Blocks: Maximum length of blocks, measured along the
centerline of the street, and between intersecting street centerlines, one
thousand five hundred feet (1,500'); except, that in developments with lot
areas averaging one-half (1/2) acre or more or where extreme topographic
conditions warrant, this maximum may be exceeded by five hundred feet (500').
Blocks shall be as long as reasonably possible under the circumstances within
the above maximum in order to achieve depth and possible street economy and to
reduce the expense and safety hazard arising from excessive street
intersections.
   B.   Maximum Length Of Cul-De-Sac Streets: Maximum length of cul- de-sac
streets shall be three hundred twenty five feet (325'), measured from the
intersection of right of way lines to the extreme depth of the turning circle
along the street centerline. Exceptions may be made where topography justifies
but shall not be made merely because the tract has restrictive boundary
dimensions, wherein provisions should be made for extension of street pattern
to the adjoining unplatted parcel and a temporary turnaround installed.
   C.   Pedestrian, Bicycle And Equestrian Ways: Pedestrian, bicycle and
equestrian ways shall have a minimum right of way width of ten feet (10') and
may be required where essential for circulation or access to schools,
playgrounds, shopping centers, transportation and other community facilities.
Pedestrianways may be used for utilities purposes. (1988 Code § 14-3-4)
11-3-6: LOTS:
   A.   Lot width, depth and area shall comply with the minimum requirements of
the zoning ordinance and shall be appropriate for the location and character of
development proposed and for the type and extent of street and utility
improvements being installed. Where steep topography, unusual soil conditions
or drainage problems exist or prevail, the commission may require special lot
width, depth and area requirements which exceed the minimum requirements of the
particular zoning district.
   B.   Where steep topography, unusual soil conditions, drainage problems,
abrupt changes in land use or heavy traffic on adjacent streets prevail, the
commission may make special lot width, depth and area requirements which exceed
the minimum requirements of the particular zoning district.
   C.   Single-family residential lots shall not have a width to depth ratio
greater than one to three (1:3).
   D.   Minimum front building lines shall conform to the minimum requirements
of the zoning ordinance.
   E.   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles or radial to
street lines, except where other treatment may be justified in the opinion of
the department.
   F.   Every residential lot shall abut upon a public street or private
accessway furnishing satisfactory access thereto.
   G.   Residential lots extending through the block and having frontage on two
(2) parallel streets which are both local streets or one of which is a local
street and the other is a collector street shall not be permitted, except when
there are commercial or industrial zoning districts on the opposite side of the
street and except as permitted in this title. Backing of lots to major streets
and freeways shall be prohibited, except where justified by the commission.
(1988 Code § 14-3-5)
11-3-7: EASEMENTS:
   A.   Utilities Easements:
      1.   Easements for utilities shall be provided as follows:
         a.   Where alleys are provided: Four feet (4') for aerial overhang on
each side of the alley shall be provided by dedication but need not be
delineated on the plat if utility lines are overhead.
         b.   Along side lot lines: Six feet (6') on each side of lot lines for
distribution facilities and one foot (1') on each side of lot lines for street
lighting as may be designated.
         c.   Guy and anchor easements: One foot (1') wide on each side of the
lot line, and approximately thirty five feet (35') in length measured from the
rear lot line, as designated, if utility lines are overhead.
         d.   Along street rights of way: Eight foot (8') wide public utility
easements along all property lines adjacent to street rights of way.
      2.   For lots facing on curvilinear streets, utility easements or alleys
may consist of a series of straight lines with points of deflection not less
than one hundred twenty feet (120') apart. Points of deflection should always
occur at the junction of side and rear lot lines on the side of the exterior
angle.
   B.   Drainage Easements: Where a stream or important surface drainagecourse
abuts or crosses a tract, dedication of a public drainage easement of a width
sufficient to permit widening, deepening, relocating or protecting and
maintaining said watercourse shall be required.
   C.   Land Within Utility Or Drainage Easements: Land within a public street
or drainage easement or land within a utility easement for major power
transmission (tower) lines or pipelines shall not be considered a part of the
minimum required lot area, except where lots exceed one-half (1/2) acre in
area. This shall not apply to land involved in utility easements for
distribution or service purposes.
   D.   Vehicular Nonaccess And Landscape Easements: Except where alleys are
provided, lots arranged to back up to major streets, railroads, canals or
commercial or industrial districts, as required in this title, shall have a
minimum depth of one hundred ten feet (110'). The rear ten feet (10') of such
lots shall be recorded as a vehicular nonaccess and landscape easement. (1988
Code § 14-3-7)
11-3-8: STREET NAMES:
The department shall propose the street names at the preliminary plat stage,
and the names shall be approved by the commission and council. (1988 Code § 14-
3-8)
CHAPTER 4
IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Purpose
11-4-2: Responsibility For Improvements
11-4-3: Engineering Plans
11-4-4: Construction And Inspection
11-4-5: Required Improvements
11-4-6: Schedule Of Improvement Requirements
11-4-7: Assurances By Subdivider
11-4-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to establish or outline the minimum
acceptable standards for improvement of streets and utilities, to define the
responsibility of the subdivider in the planning, constructing and financing of
improvements and to establish procedures for review and approval of engineering
plans. (1988 Code § 14-4-1)
11-4-2: RESPONSIBILITY FOR IMPROVEMENTS:
All improvements in streets, alleys or easements which are required as a
condition to plat approval shall be the responsibility of the subdivider. (1988
Code § 14-4-1)
11-4-3: ENGINEERING PLANS:
   A.   Plans Required: It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to
have a registered engineer prepare a complete set of engineering plans for
construction of all required improvements. Such plans shall be based on the
approved preliminary plat and be prepared in conjunction with the final plat
and in accordance with all applicable town, county or state standards. Final
construction plans for all improvements shall be approved and signed by the
town engineer prior to the recording of the final plat. (1988 Code § 14-4-2)
   B.   Submittal, Review And Approval Of Plans: Prior to the recording of the
plat, a certificate of approval of engineering plans signed by the department
having jurisdiction, along with a certification that the agreement between the
town and subdivider has been executed and the letter of agreement with serving
utilities has been submitted, and the necessary performance and completion
bond, cash or agreement has been posted with the town engineer shall be filed
with the town clerk. If the engineering plans have not been approved within
ninety (90) days, the council may require that the final plat be resubmitted.
(1988 Code § 14-4-5)
11-4-4: CONSTRUCTION AND INSPECTION:
   A.   Irrigation Facilities: All relocation, tiling and construction of
irrigation facilities shall be completed to the standards of the owning utility
and the town engineer.
   B.   Public And Private Ways: All improvements in the public right of way
shall be constructed with the inspection and approval of the town department
having jurisdiction. All construction in public rights of way and private
accessways shall require a town permit. Construction shall not begin until a
permit has been issued for such construction, and if work has been discontinued
for any reason, it shall not be resumed until after notifying the department
having jurisdiction.
   C.   Utilities:
      1.   Location: The locations of all utilities to be installed in public
rights of way or in private accessways shall be approved by the town engineer.
      2.   Underground Utilities: All underground utilities to be installed in
streets, private accessways and alleys shall be constructed under town permit
prior to the surfacing of such street, private accessway or alley. Service
stubs to platted lots within the subdivision for underground utilities shall be
placed to such length as not to necessitate disturbance of street improvements
when service connections are made; underground utilities shall be extended to
the boundaries of the plat to provide service connections to abutting
unsubdivided land. (1988 Code § 14-4-3)
11-4-5: REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Streets, Private Accessways And Alleys:
      1.   All streets, private accessways and alleys within the boundary lines
of the subdivision shall be improved to cross sections, grades and standards
approved by the town engineer.
      2.   Alleys used for primary vehicular access shall be paved.
      3.   Where there are existing streets adjacent to the subdivision,
subdivision streets shall be improved to the intercepting paving line of such
existing streets or to a matching line determined by the town engineer.
      4.   Transition paving shall be installed as required by the town
engineer.
      5.   When a subdivision includes a major street which is not paved or
where there is no paved street between the subdivision and a paved major or
collector street, an interim two (2) lane street at least twenty four feet
(24') wide shall be constructed to a standard approved by the town engineer on
the major street, collector or local street right of way to the nearest paved
major or collector street. When a marginal access road is required, strip
paving shall be installed for the major street traffic lanes.
      6.   Deadend streets extending two hundred feet (200') or more and
deadend marginal access roads shall be provided a graded and surfaced temporary
forty foot (40') radius turning circle. Alleys shall be graded and surfaced to
paved streets.
   B.   Curbs And Gutters: Where streets are to be paved, a concrete curb, curb
and gutter or valley gutter, as designated by the town engineer, shall be
installed in accordance with approved town standards. When density of
development is low or where for other reasons, such as to provide or maintain a
rural atmosphere, the installation of curb and gutter is not considered
necessary, the council may waive this requirement for one or both sides of
local streets. Vertical curbs shall be installed on the major street side of a
marginal access road, along collector streets and along school or park
property.
   C.   Sidewalks: Concrete sidewalks shall normally be required on both sides
of streets and shall be constructed to a width, line and grade approved by the
town engineer in accordance with approved town standards. Where density of
development is low or where for other reasons the installation of sidewalks is
not considered necessary, the council may waive this requirement for one or
both sides of local streets.
   D.   Pedestrianways: Concrete walks through blocks shall be constructed to a
width, line and grade approved by the town engineer.
   E.   Street Name Signs: Signs shall be placed at all street intersections
and be in place by the time the street pavement is ready for use.
Specifications for design, construction, location and installation shall be by
the department.
   F.   Storm Drainage:
      1.   Proper and adequate provision shall be made for disposal of storm
waters. This shall apply equally to grading of private properties, public
streets and private accessways.
      2.   Existing major watercourses shall be maintained and dedicated as
drainageways.
      3.   The type, extent, location and capacity of drainage facilities for a
subdivision shall be as required by the town engineer from the survey and storm
runoff calculations made by the subdivider's engineer.
      4.   All retention basins, channels and like facilities shall be
constructed in accordance with the requirements of the town engineer.
      5.   Water generated on the property by a 10-year frequency storm shall
be retained on the site or disposed of as required by the town engineer.
   G.   Sewage Disposal:
      1.   Sewage disposal facilities shall be installed to serve each lot.
      2.   Public sanitary sewer lines shall be installed in all new
subdivisions in accordance with plans, profiles and specifications approved by
the county health department and town departments having jurisdiction over
water and sewers.
      3.   In areas where public sanitary sewers are not reasonably accessible,
the owning agency, with the approval of the county health department, may agree
to operate a temporary disposal unit or pumping station. The subdivider shall
construct temporary facilities along with the sewer lines in the subdivision.
They shall be designed for connection with a future public sewer system.
   H.   Water Supply: Each lot shall be supplied with safe, pure and potable
water in sufficient volume and pressure for domestic use and fire protection,
including fire hydrants and other types of installations required by the fire
code on water lines, which are designed to the standards of the water and fire
departments.
   I.   Irrigation Facilities: All irrigation facilities requiring seventy two
inch (72") diameter pipe or less which are to remain within the boundaries of
the tract, or in an abutting half street or alley right of way, shall be tiled
in accordance with standards of the owning agency or relocated as may be
directed by the town engineer and the owning agency. Where street improvements
require relocation of control gates or other structures, such relocation and
reconstruction shall conform to the requirements of the town engineer and the
owning agency. In rural developments, this requirement may be waived by the
town engineer.
   J.   Monuments: Permanent monuments shall be installed in accordance with
current town standards at all corners, angle points and points of curve, at all
street intersections, and at all corners, angle points and points of curve of
all conservation easements. After all improvements have been installed, a
registered land surveyor or engineer shall check the location of the monuments
and certify their accuracy.
   K.   Iron Pipes: Iron pipes shall be set at all corners, angle points and
points of curve for each lot within the subdivision prior to the recording of
the plat. (1988 Code § 14-4-4)
   L.   Utilities:
      1.   Location Of Utility Lines:
         a.   New electric, communication and TV lines shall be installed
underground. (1988 Code § 14-4-4; amd. 2004 Code)
         b.   When overhead utility lines exist within the property being
platted, said existing overhead utility lines and the new installations within
the platted area shall be placed underground.
         c.   When overhead utility lines exist on the periphery of the
property being platted, said existing overhead utility lines and any additions
or replacements needed to increase capacity or improve service reliability may
remain overhead; provided, however, that any service drops into the platted
area from said peripheral overhead lines shall be underground.
         d.   When overhead utility lines exist on the periphery of the
property of five (5) acres or less being platted, then the utility lines within
the platted area may be overhead.
         e.   When, as a result of the subdivision development, it is necessary
to relocate, renew or expand existing facilities within the platted area, the
subdivider shall make the necessary arrangements with the serving utility for
these installations to be placed underground.
         f.   When, due to subsurface soil conditions or other special
conditions, it is determined by the town engineer that it is impractical to
construct facilities underground, installations shall be overhead.
         g.   Those electric lines of greater than 12.5 KV capacity, as rated
by the American Standards Association, are excluded from the requirements of
this subsection L1.
      2.   Duties Of Subdivider:
         a.   The subdivider shall be responsible for the requirements of this
subsection and shall make the necessary arrangements with each of the serving
utility companies involved for the installation of the underground facilities.
Letters from each of the serving utility companies indicating that said
arrangements have been made shall be submitted to the town engineer at the time
the final subdivision plat is submitted for approval.
         b.   The subdivider shall arrange with the serving utility for, and be
responsible for, the cost of underground service lines to approved street light
locations.
   M.   Street Lights: In subdivisions where all other utilities are installed
underground, underground electrical service required for street lighting shall
be installed to those street light locations approved by the town engineer.
   N.   Walls On Landscape And Vehicular Nonaccess Easements: Continuous
undulating or offset decorative masonry walls shall be installed on landscape
and vehicular nonaccess easements along major streets when lots back up to a
major street in accordance with the design requirements and approval of the
town engineer.
   O.   Landscaping: All landscaping, along with appropriate watering systems,
within public rights of way or landscape easements shall be in accordance with
plans approved by the town engineer. (1988 Code § 14-4-4)
11-4-6: SCHEDULE OF IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS:
Specific standards of improvements to be installed in a subdivision shall
depend on the location of the subdivision and type of development proposed
therein, as outlined in the following schedule of improvement requirements:
   A.   Urban Developments:
      1.   Description: Single-family residential development with lot widths
less than one hundred twenty feet (120'), lot areas less than eighteen thousand
(18,000) square feet, and a density of about four (4) dwelling units per acre;
two-family and multi- family residential development regardless of site area or
density; and commercial and industrial developments.
      2.   Requirements:
         a.   Public sewer, in accordance with this title.
         b.   Public water supply, in accordance with this title, including
mains and fire hydrants to town standards.
         c.   Storm drainage to an acceptable outlet, in accordance with this
title.
         d.   All streets with approved pavement, and concrete curbs, gutters
and sidewalks on both sides.
         e.   Alleys, if provided, completely paved with approved material to
an approved width.
         f.   Utilities, in accordance with this title.
         g.   Underground streetlight circuits, in accordance with this title.
         h.   Private accessways shall have pavement with concrete curbs,
gutters and sidewalks in accordance with town standards and specifications.
   B.   Suburban Developments:
      1.   Description: Single-family residential development with minimum lot
widths of more than one hundred twenty feet (120') but less than one hundred
fifty feet (150') and minimum lot area of eighteen thousand (18,000) square
feet but less than thirty five thousand (35,000) square feet.
      2.   Requirements:
         a.   Public sewers, in accordance with this title.
         b.   Public water supply systems, in accordance with this title,
including mains and fire hydrants to town standards.
         c.   Storm drainage to an acceptable outlet, in accordance with this
title.
         d.   All streets with approved pavement, concrete curbs and gutters;
sidewalks required on both sides of major or collector streets.
         e.   Alleys, if provided, completely paved with approved material to
an approved width.
         f.   Utilities, in accordance with this title.
         g.   Underground streetlight circuits, in accordance with town
standards and specifications.
   C.   Estate Developments:
      1.   Description: Single-family residential development with minimum lot
areas of thirty five thousand (35,000) square feet.
      2.   Requirements:
         a.   Public sewer, in accordance with this title.
         b.   Public water supply systems, in accordance with this title,
including mains and fire hydrants to town standards.
         c.   Storm drainage to an acceptable outlet, in accordance with this
title.
         d.   All streets with approved pavement, concrete curbs and gutters;
sidewalks required on both sides of major or collector streets.
         e.   Utilities, in accordance with this title.
         f.   Underground streetlight circuits, in accordance with this title.
         g.   Private accessways shall have approved pavement with concrete
curbs, gutters and sidewalks in accordance with town standards and
specifications.
   D.   Rural Developments:
      1.   Description: Single-family residential development with minimum lot
widths of one hundred fifty feet (150'), minimum lot areas of thirty five
thousand (35,000) square feet and being developed as a community of small
farms.
      2.   Requirements:
         a.   Public sewers, in accordance with this title.
         b.   Public water supply systems, in accordance with this title,
including mains and fire hydrants to town standards.
         c.   Storm drainage handled in a manner acceptable to the town
engineer, to an acceptable outlet, in accordance with this title.
         d.   All streets with approved pavement; concrete curbs and gutters on
both side of major and collector streets; concrete or another type of hard
surface sidewalks on one or both sides of major and collector streets.
         e.   Utilities, in accordance with this title.
         f.   Underground streetlight circuits, in accordance with this title.
         g.   Private accessways, in accordance with requirements for public
streets. (1988 Code § 14-4-6)
11-4-7: ASSURANCES BY SUBDIVIDER:
   A.   Agreement By Subdivider: Upon approval by the town of the final plat,
the subdivider shall execute an agreement covering the following:
      1.   The subdivision improvements in a recorded development unit may be
constructed in practical increments of lots, as specified by the subdivider,
subject to provisions for satisfactory drainage, traffic movement and other
services as determined by the town engineer.
      2.   The improvements, except those utility facilities specified in this
title, shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the water and
sewer department for water and public sanitary sewer facilities and by the town
engineer for all other improvements.
      3.   The improvements, except those utility facilities specified in this
title, shall be completed within an agreed specified time period for each
increment. An extension of time may be granted under conditions specified
therein.
      4.   The subdivider shall give adequate assurance of the construction of
each increment in accordance with this title.
      5.   Progress payments may be made to the subdivider on his order from
any cash deposit made. Such progress payments shall be made in accordance with
standards established by the town engineer.
      6.   Any work abandoned or not completed by the subdivider may be
completed by the town which shall recover the construction costs from the
subdivider.
      7.   Construction of all improvements within streets and easements,
except those utility facilities specified in this title, shall be subject to
inspection by the town engineer.
      8.   No lots shall be released from the approved increment of lots until
either the agreement or an assurance of construction has been posted and
accepted by the town engineer.
   B.   Assurance Of Construction:
      1.   To ensure construction of the required improvements as set forth in
this section, except those utility facilities specified in this title, the
subdivider shall deposit with the town engineer an amount in cash or a surety
bond equal to the amount of the cost of the work of each recorded increment (as
determined by the town engineer) guaranteeing that the work will be completed
in accordance with town details and specifications. When no marginal access
road is being constructed and the improvement of a major or collector street by
a governmental agency is imminent, the subdivider shall deposit the current
estimated cost of improving the abutting half street in an account to be
disbursed to the town at the time the contract is awarded for the town project
to improve the full width of the street.
      2.   The surety bond shall be executed by the subdivider, as principal,
with a corporation duly authorized to transact business in the state of
Arizona, as surety. The bond shall be in favor of the town, shall be continuous
in form and shall require that the total aggregate liability of the surety for
all claims shall be limited to the face amount of the bond, regardless of the
number of years the bond is in force. The bond or cash shall be released upon
satisfactory performance of the work and its acceptance by the town engineer.
The bond may be cancelled or the cash withdrawn by the subdivider; provided,
that other security satisfactory to the town has been deposited which will
cover the obligations of the subdivider which remain to be performed. (1988
Code § 14-4-7)
   C.   Assurance Of Construction Through Loan Commitment: In lieu of providing
assurance of construction in the manner provided in this section, the
subdivider may provide assurance of construction of required improvements,
except those utility facilities specified in this title, by delivering to the
department, prior to the recording of said plat, an appropriate agreement
between an approved lending institution and the subdivider, stating that funds
sufficient to cover the entire cost of installing the required improvements,
including engineering and inspection costs, and the cost of replacement or
repairs of any existing streets or improvements damaged by the subdivider in
the course of development of the subdivision, in an amount approved by the town
engineer, have been deposited with such approved lending institution to the
subdivider. The agreement shall provide that the funds in the approved amount
are specifically allocated and will be used by the subdivider, or on his
behalf, only for the purpose of installing the subdivision improvements. The
town shall be the beneficiary of such agreement, or the subdivider's rights
thereunder shall be assigned to the town, and the town engineer shall approve
each disbursement of such funds. The agreement may also contain terms,
conditions and provisions normally included by such lending institutions in
loan commitments for construction funds, or as may be necessary to comply with
statutes and regulations applicable to such lending institutions. (1988 Code §
14-4-7; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 5
SPECIAL DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Condominium Developments
11-5-2: Developments On Hillsides
11-5-1: CONDOMINIUM DEVELOPMENTS:
   A.   Procedure: The processing of subdivision plats for condominium
developments shall follow the procedures set forth in this title for the
processing of land subdivision plats. All sections of this title shall be
applicable to condominium subdivisions. A preliminary site plan shall be
considered a preliminary plat and a final site plan, a final plat.
   B.   Certification And Recordation Of Plat: The final condominium
subdivision plat shall be certified by a registered architect or engineer that
the plat accurately depicts the development as constructed and shall be
recorded prior to the sale of the first unit.
   C.   Information Required On Plats:
      1.   Conversion Of Conventional Apartment Developments:
         a.   Preliminary plats shall show, in addition to all information
required by the department check list for site plans, the following:
            (1)   Firewall construction, if required by the fire code.
            (2)   Additional parking, if required.
            (3)   Additional open space, if required.
            (4)   Location of individual utility lines and meters, if needed.
            (5)   Additional exits.
         b.   Final plats shall show:
            (1)   All buildings.
            (2)   Private drives and parking areas.
            (3)   Required assessments.
            (4)   Designation of commonly owned property.
            (5)   Necessary dedications statement.
            (6)   Statement concerning the formation of a homeowners'
association for the maintenance of the commonly owned property.
            (7)   Necessary certifications and approvals.
      2.   New Developments:
         a.   Preliminary plat shall show all of the information required by
the department site plan check list.
         b.   Final plats shall show all of the information required in
subsection C1b of this section.
         c.   Building permits shall be issued in accordance with final plats
approved by the department, prior to recordation of the plat.
         d.   Final plats to be approved by the town council and recorded after
construction has been completed and final inspection made. (1988 Code § 14-3-6)
11-5-2: DEVELOPMENTS ON HILLSIDES:
Because of the unique and peculiar problems inherent in the development of
hillside areas, special standards and conditions for hillside development areas
must be considered. The provisions of this section shall be applicable to the
division of all land in a hillside development area regardless of parcel size.
   A.   Special Preliminary Plat Requirements:
      1.   A topographic map of existing terrain with contour intervals
adequate to show the nature and variations in the terrain; two foot (2')
intervals for grades less than fifteen percent (15%); five foot (5') intervals
for grades greater than fifteen percent (15%); elevations of critical spots,
rock outcrops and special characteristics. (1988 Code § 14-3-9)
      2.   Where necessary to determine that lots will be usable, the
department may recommend and the commission may require a plan for each lot, in
conformance with grading and drainage regulations required by the town, showing
the natural topography of the total parcel to be platted, the location and size
of all structures, the finished grade at all improvement locations, and the
depth and extent of all cuts and fills. (1988 Code § 14-3-9; amd. 2004 Code)
      3.   A report of a proper soil investigation by a licensed geologist or
engineer to determine any geological hazard and soil bearing quality.
      4.   The location of existing and proposed conservation easements.
   B.   Special Final Plat Requirements:
      1.   A final grading plan which conforms to the requirements of the
grading and drainage regulations in this title and required by the town.
      2.   A detailed topographic map at larger scale and closer contour
interval or suitable cross sections or profiles of areas where streets,
driveways, buildings, utility or grading construction are proposed.
      3.   Road profiles and cross sections at all significant changes in the
cross slopes; the cross section to show proposed and natural grade at the
centerline of the road, edge of roadway, the right of way line and the proposed
building setback lines.
      4.   Locations of all building sites and proposed driveways.
   C.   Special Design Standards:
      1.   Street and private accessway grades shall conform as closely as
possible to natural topography but shall not exceed fifteen percent (15%).
      2.   Street grades exceeding twelve percent (12%) shall have a maximum
length of six hundred feet (600').
      3.   Upon approval of the town engineer, horizontal alignments may
provide curves with less than a one hundred foot (100') centerline radius.
      4.   Upon the recommendation of the town engineer and approval of the
commission, alternate methods for turning and backing areas may be substituted
for turnarounds.
      5.   Upon approval of the town engineer, required paving width of the
traffic lanes may be modified when off street parking bays are provided,
developed and paved in the public right of way.
      6.   The centerline of the paving may be offset from the centerline of
the right of way to provide parking bays in the right of way.
      7.   Where bridle trails are approved, sidewalks may be placed by the
trails on the upgrade side of the right of way.
      8.   Vertical curbs shall be required on the downhill side of streets
having grades of six percent (6%) or greater; concrete "U" or "V" gutters may
be installed in lieu of conventional rolled or vertical curbs elsewhere.
      9.   On a corner lot, no grading shall be allowed which results in the
ground level being raised so as to obstruct the vision more than a height of
three feet (3') above the grade of either street within an area formed by the
lot lines on the street sides of such lot and a line joining points on such lot
lines located a distance of thirty three feet (33') from the point of their
intersection.
      10.   Transverse street cross sections with the gutter on the uphill side
may be used where approved by the town engineer.
      11.   All cut and fill slopes shall be within the roadway right of way or
roadway easement; slope maintenance easements for roadway cuts and fills may be
required by the town engineer.
      12.   All excavated material shall be removed from lots and roadways or
contained behind retaining walls or otherwise placed so that the slopes of any
fill material will not be visible from any public street.
      13.   "Panhandle", double frontage and other unorthodox lots, including
lots which have a width to depth ratio greater than one to three (1:3), shall
be permitted if it can be adequately demonstrated that their design will
eliminate excessive cuts and will not adversely affect any other lot if so
arranged.
      14.   Private accessways may be permitted to provide access to lots in
lieu of the required street frontage with a minimum paved surface of twelve
feet (12') in width, and each private accessway serving more than one lot shall
have a minimum paved surface of twenty four feet (24') in width or as may be
otherwise required by town standards and specifications. Where needed,
additional easements for drainage or utilities shall be provided.
      15.   Maximum driveway grades shall be twenty percent (20%).
      16.   Building sites shall be free of geological hazards.
   D.   Grading Standards For Lots, Parcels And PUD Sites:
      1.   Not more than five percent (5%) of a lot, parcel or PUD site shall
be left with a cross slope steeper than natural grade of the ground or steeper
than twenty percent (20%), whichever is greater.
      2.   All driveway and garage cuts shall be made at the time of street
grading and before street improvements are installed.
      3.   The total area of all cuts and fills, other than the enclosed floor
area of the dwelling, shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the lot, parcel or
PUD site area.
      4.   Cut or fill slopes shall be entirely contained within the downhill
lot.
      5.   All excavated material shall be removed from the premises, contained
behind retaining walls, or otherwise placed so that the slopes of any fill
material will not be visible from any public street.
   E.   Utilities:
      1.   All utilities, except electric lines above 12.5 KV, shall be
installed underground in the streets, private accessways, or public utility
easements.
      2.   Water and sewage disposal shall be provided to each lot.
   F.   Easements: There shall be eight foot (8') wide public utility easements
along all property lines adjacent to street rights of way. (1988 Code § 14-3-9)
